[ Conversing in German ] -Hi. I'm Rick Steves, back with more and this time, we're cooking up some unforgettable and that includes &quot;Danke schoen.&quot; We're in Frankfurt Thanks for joining us. Germany is and you feel that like Frankfurt and Nuernberg. These are examples of how Germany has put and learned that the most is to be constructive. In Frankfurt, we see today's Germany -- a vibrant mix sprinkled with parks, Then, in Nuernberg, we marvel at remnants -- with the Holy Roman Emperor's and we learn of Hitler with the architecture Finally, we go underground for a peek Dominating the north of Europe the size of Montana. We start where many in Frankfurt, and then travel For an honest look travelers need to venture and cute cobbled towns. Frankfurt may be low but it offers a great look Ever since people have gathered here Today, cosmopolitan Frankfurt, is a trading hub home to and a center With its trading heritage came You'll notice the strikingly A quarter carry foreign passports. Frankfurt is often avoided who consider it just a business But with its modern energy, Frankfurt is a unique well worth a look. The city, with its forest perched on the banks has been dubbed Germany's While it leads the country mostly bank headquarters, it has plenty In fact, Frankfurters boast that a third of their city This park is part of a greenbelt and marks the site of Frankfurt's long-gone Today that greenbelt weaves through Frankfurt's And history hides The Marshall Plan -- that massive that helped Germany rebuild was administered After World War II, and its economy was in chaos. In 1948, the United States gave it It was like literally printing up the new shipping them and, from here in Frankfurt, injecting them directly That aid helped rebuild Germany, and it shaped Frankfurt, And, as if attracted banks naturally grew up The architecture is striking. By law, no German worker can be kept out of natural light That's why work environments And unlike any skyscraper Germans have office towers The Main Tower and offers a breath-taking view. From its rooftop, 650 feet high, With new construction upon which the city was founded, its ever-expanding skyline exudes the vitality In contrast Frankfurt's train station This late 19th-century somehow survived the bombs The building's elegant facade dates from and shows the pride Atlas carries the world, but only with as figures representing steam Stepping inside, you feel the energy of where 350,000 travelers Kaiserstrasse, was built to connect the station Towering above and beyond and reflecting of this ever-changing city, are the skyscrapers Frankfurt is full of contrasts. Just a few blocks away, is a red light district the pragmatic result of to take the crime out of a reality Just a couple blocks away, there are fashionable streets People-friendly pedestrian zones make it easy And on a hot day, people of all ages fronting Frankfurt's The many small finally united into modern Within a couple of years, which helped spearhead built this fine opera house. It celebrated both and the newly created nation. While bombed in World War II, it was rebuilt Mozart, and the esteemed flank the entrance, reminders that this is a house Lunchtime can be entertaining as herds of bankers This street roughly the &quot;Feeding Street.&quot; As a contrast to the many trendy Frankfurt's Kleinmarkthalle, is a delightful, The venerable farmers' market was saved from developers and remains Explore and enjoy the samples. -This is anti-aging. -I don't need it, no. -[ Chuckles ] -This stall And amid this carnivore's the city's classic wiener, My best market tip? Find the most popular eatery, and go for the town specialty. Just around the corner Frankfurt's old main square, lined with Because of it's one of the few bits of in its original On a sunny day, A centerpiece is this welcoming Enjoy the lively scene in the shadow of Frankfurt's Taking a riverside stroll, while so productive are also expert at relaxation. From Frankfurt, trains zip travelers Heading southeast, in a couple hours we cross and arrive in Nuernberg. Nuernberg was one of Germany's, leading cities 500 years ago with an imposing The city's formidable walls they were redesigned which worked just fine before to round ones -- so enemy cannonballs without doing any damage. Back then, with 80 water wheels powering mills Nuernberg The scenic remnants are now just an added dimension of a delightfully 90% of downtown Nuernberg To rebuild, go entirely modern that was the Manhattan plan -- or maintain the pre-war while preserving That was Nuernberg's choice. With one of Europe's the city of half a million Playful street art, a series of bridges and no traffic noise make it a joy to experience. Nuernberg is dominated In the Middle Ages, Europe's most powerful rulers, The Holy Roman Emperor for over a thousand years. The institution was finally The emperor ruled a vast realm -- it was bigger but it was never centralized Rather than inheriting he was elected by the top They were called The emperor and didn't have While the emperor inherited direct from historians like to joke was neither holy, nor Roman, The most famous was Charlemagne, shown here in a painting by Nuernberg artist Charlemagne, was crowned by the pope When ruling from Nuernberg, the emperor would have received in the castle's Lower Hall. It's empty of furniture because Each city would scramble its royal quarters The castle's 800-year-old church and gives a peek even medieval society's It has a triple-Decker design: The lower nobility worshiped the upper nobility worshiped and the emperor, he worshiped from the balcony. As effective as there was always an ultra-secure the towering keep. And security required Any good castle needs a secure water source And when your castle sits you need a very deep well. This castle illustrates that -[ Speaking German ] -Even without understanding he made it really clear that [ Water splashing ] [ Laughter ] -It's cool, huh? [ Chuckles ] -Nuernberg's is dedicated to sharing of the German-speaking world. For German history buffs, with a vast and gorgeously makes a visit to Nuernberg When it comes for fine craftsmanship, its passion for quality These finely crafted, centuries-old were intricate, innovative, This is the world's oldest crafted by a Nuernberger. Since it dates from 1492, While they understood the Western Hemisphere was still just The delicate, is also 500 years old. This intimate, anonymous carving was a symbol of the city The German painter Lucas Cranach was famous for portraits like the great German reformer Cranach also painted poignant paintings that came In &quot;The Ill-Matched Couple,&quot; the lecherous old man thinks But she looks knowingly as if to say &quot;he's a fool, The great painter Albrecht Duerer worked in Nuernberg This is a self-portrait Duerer, who was as Michelangelo and Leonardo, was in tune He was a genius a love of nature, After traveling to Italy and seeing how artists were rather than anonymous laborers, he returned to Germany bringing the spirit He painted this portrait when he was a teenager. While just 19, his passion for realistic detail This painting of Duerer's teacher was done Its realism was unprecedented and it's signed. Again, now the artist and he proudly included Duerer was a master from finely etched The detail and realism, is extraordinary. As he was famous and because many prints could be and therefore sold affordably, the engraving technique the first best-selling artist And he made a lot of money -- enough to purchase beneath the castle. Today, it's a fine museum about the life of perhaps A visit here includes a workshop where you can learn about It's with these tools that the artist engraves Visitors are treated of making a print The subject is a hare. Duerer was famous for his vivid -Wow. -To be able to enjoy such beautiful, must have been a marvel A few blocks away, towering nearly 300 feet is St. Lawrence Church. When emperors paraded into town, they'd approach Stepping inside, you feel Suspended over the altar by the great Nuernberg Carved in 1517, it shows the angel Gabriel that she'll be giving birth Startled, The dove represents And God, looking as powerful looks down. This lacy tabernacle to hold the consecrated which Catholics consider And supporting the tower is the artist who created it, gripping his noble tools Again, this was around 1500, and the humanistic spirit was moving into Germany. While this church was heavily bombed much of its art survived thanks to heroic and creative One part of Nuernberg that avoided bomb damage its vast of waterways, tunnels, They were outfitted During bombing raids, tens of thousands of locals It's also where both local and looted, To learn more about this, and not get forever lost we're joined by my friend Thomas Schmechtig. -So, Nuernberg was bombed and we saw what happened so we actually prepared and reconverted these old beer That, for example, who protected the artworks which were stored in here -The Nazis hid crates of great in this sprawling -This is one which were filled up with art. Nuernberg was back then nicknamed &quot;the treasure chest Plus, the Nazis looted -From countries and they brought it here? -Correct. For example, right in this room, they had the crown -So, right here in these cellars were some of the great treasures -Correct. We didn't just stash They were carefully packed. For example, here, Rick, you see the wonderful from our St. Lawrence Church. They were taken out pane by pane and then put The humidity was very dangerous so they air conditioned -So, this huge duct was made -Yes, and already in 1939, -The bombing, of course, and this surviving became the foundation -So it did make sense to rebuild the city We have miles of underground They date back that, for example is -Nuernberg, was nicknamed the most German That's one reason A short tram ride is a collection When Hitler took power in 1933, he made Nuernberg's the site of his enormous The stark remains of are thought-provoking. For several years, increasingly elaborate of Nazi culture, took place right here. -Imagine Hitler stepping overlooking the massive He used propaganda in fact, It's called &quot;Volksgemeinschaft.&quot; -The chilling images from Leni Riefenstahl's &quot;Triumph of the Will&quot; were filmed at the 1934 and then shown in every theater The goal? To bring of the power of the Nazi state Looming over a now peaceful lake is another remnant of his huge yet unfinished Hitler was enamored He had his Congress Hall but built much bigger. -Imagine, 50,000 leading Nazis One third higher, A window inside the ceiling, sunshine would have fallen Once a year, Adolf Hitler He was a big fan of the architectural style The idea was to make -This really makes me -Yeah, you give away and you get something back That is, a bright new future. -The Nazi Documentation Center This superb museum does its best &quot;How could Germany's It traces the evolution focusing on how it somehow the German people. This is not a WWII In fact, those events Instead, the center the origin and evolution to help better understand it and help prevent it Exhibits offer insights of the Messiah/pop star image the mass hypnosis You'll see his manifesto, mementos that placed alongside Bismarck and Beethoven in the pantheon and souvenirs from his rallies. With postcards like these, the Hitler-mania generated was shared across the land. Of course, Hitler's promises and led not to glory and the devastation of Germany. The challenges of building and are ongoing. -Incorporated into these museums -Why is that? -Because every student, should learn -So this really is, today, -Yeah, it finally arrived -Having learned powerful lessons today Nuernberg celebrates with a forward-looking gusto You feel that the farmers direct from stalls fountains designed along with their parents... and its tasty traditions. Here in Nuernberg, famous beer, classic pretzels, and the thing about this city these adorable little sausages. Thanks for joining us. Until next time, &quot;Guten Appetit&quot; -The Holy Roman Empire was never really an empire Bah! [ Laughs ] -[ Laughs ] -Military, too? -Yes. [ Laughter ] -Suck in your gut. Suck in your gut! You don't have a gut. You poor boy,