Five years ago, on September 22nd, &quot;The Lego celebrate it, I'm going to make a massive Garmadon and to recreate it in Lego is going to be had to build. So, back in 2017, they actually and my cousin, who's a huge fan of &quot;The I asked my cousin if I could Oh, what's up, dude? You got the Garmadon Mech? us at all times. Oh, wait, there is, thanks to the cousin with this mock. I'm not going to show until the end, and then we're gonna reveal it So, a lot of UCS either have a ton of minifigures it just felt right to add literally one you need? Garmadon and his robot. It's perfect. I I'll make up for it in my next video. You'll The one in the movie is probably twice or three my brother that built Jay's electromech is really mechs in the past, and I really needed his help to to start. I mean, this thing had to be massive. skeleton. We kind of built the hips and then the and then we built the feet. The feet needed to be built pretty big feet on this. And then we kind of and then where we wanted the arms to go. So, once to work on more of the detail parts. In the movie, black, metallic dark gray, light gray, silver. We going to make this dark gray, which is probably a ton of gray pieces, but sadly, my brother had myself with the rest of this huge Mech to build. was gonna build a giant Garmadon Mechamock, and the feet are black. I added a line of red in spindly, and we had to make them like huge buff. parts. One of the pieces I used was track pieces, a lot of detail. Around on the back, I used a blue propeller inside. I also put some cool fins part of the leg, some of the weird pieces I used Knight pieces I used in my &quot;Dawn of Iron Doom&quot; detail, I put on some of these cool dragon scale absolutely massive. Each leg comprised of five act So, I got out six more of those silver Nexo Knight Now it was time to make the Shark Tank. In the but in the movie, he shoots out pool-on sharks Brickland.com. Now I had an army of sharks to transparent blue pieces in order to make this cage that I use for the city of Merlopia and built the other half sticking out. Then I was able to awesome. I also got two of these transparent blue chest plate for this thing, so now I needed to Technic pins and stuff in it that I'm pretty And this thing was really coming together. So, for right here. This thing has a lot of teeth, sort The big fin piece on the top of his head, I didn't so I had to take another trip to Bricklink, order actual Lego set, it comes with this size of fin it's like twice or three times bigger. and then I was able to tile them off to make it these transparent donut pieces with an upside-down and I was afraid it would make the whole neck I used a bunch of Technic pieces and pins to make time to move on to the arm. I hope I don't run first, and I just went with the arm with the hand. here were some of these metallic thin pieces. and the forearm is absolutely massive. so it's a pretty simple build. The fingers are Lloyd beside mirrored the arm kind of the same. but I was able to make a function where you could cool. It was just way too big. I had to get put one of these huge blasters, and I was able Shark design look real without using stickers. And for the eyes, I used a headlight brick a little pin, and the eyes look pretty good. it and stuck it on. All it needed were some on the front so he could really start doing and stuck like 20 of them together. I and it was done. Before we go get my cousin, Oh, the Garmadon Mecha Man! It's totally complete, one is about one and a half pounds, and this have here is the most epic villain from Ninjago, at the knees, so if you want to kind of pose it, comes with a total of 13 APK joints. On the back, another feature we have on the back is the Shark step&quot;. I added some fish up here that are actually we've got some big shocks right here. We've got Then we have the big chest plate, some of the big actually made Garmadon holding two wrenches. It are a couple of computers I put back behind it, super creepy red eyes, kind of makes up this It's got a couple of different joints. We've got then we have this massive hand. Then on the other one of the coolest weapons you could possibly and then it's got six huge missiles. So the but it can shoot out a huge missile. And this for friction for different posability reasons. this all the way to the back of the tank where the I added to the arms were some tubes going to make get my cousin down here, and we're gonna surprise call him down and see what he thinks. Let's go. right here, pretty small little character. never mind. So when you showed me this the first And thank you very much for letting me borrow and this is, wow, it's like pretty heavy. If you were to give Probably, uh, this is a nine. Mark, guys, nine. If you totally can. Go to Brick Dash Legends.com pick up your instructions. And here's the thing, falling down picture. So get it before then. The