Cookie Clicker is a game about clicking a It's simple at first, but gets increasingly The late game meta has elaborate strategies the upgrades and achievements, and to uncover krumblor dragon, and the mysteries of the In the beginning, you click the cookie - which You click again, you've got two. Then three. With fifteen cookies, you can buy a cursor Ten cursors make one cookie per second, or So you make more cookies, to buy more cursors, cookies, you buy your first grandma. This kindly old woman performs unpaid labour become popular in the neighbourhood , then exponentially. You buy cookie farms to grow cookies, mines to produce cookies on an industrial scale. The cookie economy transforms the world around an obesity epidemic . But the world is too that "&quot;cookies permeate the economy&quot;, and dead&quot; ". Cookie banks start using cookies the Baker in the sky . There is no value, You produce hundreds of thousands of cookies itself . You build wizard towers and alchemy in shipments from space of cookies from alien You open portals to a parallel dimension, Alien beings and cosmic elder gods come to engulfed in transdimensional disaster , but cookies are all we know. A local "confused idiot" says "you gotta . Time machines bring cookies from the past, . You make cookies from antimatter, from light, cookies, and cookies from beyond the fourth The foundations of the cosmos crack under Everything is transformed, either into cookies universe [becomes] cookie dough, [down] to terrifying cookie gestalt . The only escape not even that can save you. When you're ready, you ascend - you leave existence, where you can buy special Heavenly Then you are reborn in a new game, with zero But you keep certain upgrades and bonuses, you were before. Birth, death and rebirth are an endless inescapable And the mechanics get more complex. Cookie Clicker is an idle game. You're not meant to sit there clicking the the background while it makes cookies for on upgrades. In the early game, this passive playstyle Upgrades like the Golden Lock and the Shimmering But in the late game, the best way to progress Cause every five minutes or so, a Golden Cookie a random temporary bonus like a Cookie Frenzy, seven times for one minute. The best effect is the Building Special, which based on how many buildings you have - so multiply your cps by thousands of times over. And if you can stack multiple multipliers of times over. You can spawn more Golden Cookies with the Wizard Tower. One of the Grimoire spells, called Force The So by manipulating the Mana pool by strategically to replenish Mana, you can cast the Hand of generating three or four golden cookies at If you're lucky, and those cookies grant CpS multipliers of millions of times regular in minutes. To make the most of these bonuses, you need The Garden grows cookie seeds into cookie evolutionary trees to unlock new seeds with and cheapcap reduces prices, but the good When harvested bakeberries, give you 30 minutes So, if you harvest them while you've got you can make months worth of cookies instantly. You can fill the garden with bakeberries, Golden Cookies til you get a huge multiplier, for massive profit. Alternatively, you can go for the Click Frenzy the Godzamok Pantheon idol. Once you've got Krumblor the Cookie Dragon, Dragon's Fortune and Dragonflight Auras, aura is usually ideal for the buff to kittens. Of course, the seasonal events like Christmas from an elf fetus to a Bulky elf to Elder dominion of his realm, and a cheeky 20% cps So the late game involves a variety of strategies But the cookies are not without cost. As production increases, the grandmas grow "You make me sick" grandma says. "You could have stopped it", grandma says. After the Bingo Center upgrade, and the One [Nanageddon music]. The indentured labour force at the bottom grandmas rise , and transform the globe into Wrinkled &quot;flesh tendrils&quot; are visible from cities , spreading like an infectious virus. The only way to end the Grandmapocalypse is some economic gain to save everyone. But it can actually be more efficient to continue anyway. Because the Grandmapocalypse spawns Wrinklers. Wrinklers leech 5% of CpS, but when you pop So you can increase economic production by Disaster is actually an opportunity to exploit Ultimately, the cookie economy is not designed a virus or a tumour, its nature is to exploit Grandmas, banks, temples, every part of life economy'. Nothing is too sacred to be sacrificed on And for what? What's the point of a massive global economy vulnerable? Even those with the most cookies don't really level of wealth, you can never spend that And it's not like the game ever ends. You cannot win. You just keep making cookies until you stop You're just hoarding cookies for its own It's not really about the cookies - it's You could be collecting any meaningless number of paper - past a certain point, you're It's not even a real number, cause look, literally type in a number and print two trillion brrr], their value is imaginary. And yet the lives and health of our grandmas number. The problem is that a system designed to make justice and happiness. Any system of endless growth, of singular one goal - can only grow until it self-destructs. The only way we can escape such a game... Thanks for watching this video about Cookie You can play the game at the link below. The game is made by Orteil and Opti - consider Make sure to click the like and click subscribe up. Thanks to Patrons Jader Fontoura de Moraes, Cheers.