- I've spent most of my career trying to get into a chip fab. Samsung's a hard no, Global Foundries was open to it in person, then ghosted me when I followed up and Intel has said no to me, every single time I've asked except one. Honestly, I'm pretty overwhelmed today because I'm gonna be off my bucket list. I'm visiting Israel for the first time, I'm gonna be going deep state of the art fab 28 and I get to tell you about our sponsor. - Zoho CRM, Zoho CRM is a 360 degree solution that offers an intuitive UI, AI predictions and a design studio to help you get your sales done faster. Get 50% off with the code (upbeat music) (upbeat music) - My tour guide today Dani is the Co-General Manager of Worldwide Semiconductor Manufacturing and started at Intel working back when state of the Microprocessor fabrication experts can safely skip ahead a couple of minutes, but for everyone else, let's run through the basics. Every CPU die, every one of these starts like the one right here. These are astonishingly pure and are exactly 300 If they went in any smaller, they'd increase waste around the edges. I mean look at this, obviously this is not if it's cut off by the edge of the circle. Fun fact by the way, the reason that they run through all of the same is that it actually of the full chips next to them. Consistency is key in CPU manufacturing, because even though we talk 14 or 10 nanometer, the components that make are much smaller, like on the order of less than a nanometer and a tiny error or contaminant in any of the hundreds means that that die, he no worky. I mean it's a modern miracle and is basically unheard of to get an entire 300 millimeter without a single defective dye on it. Before it can be sold however, it needs to be transformed into the brains of your PC. Silicon you see is neither an insulator, nor is it a true conductor. So to create all the little transistors or switches that control current flow through the logic gates and other microstructures on the chip, the wafer needs to undergo many processes. Implantation fires dopant ions into the surface of the silicon to alter its electrical characteristics. So depending on what kinds say phosphorous or boron, you might be laying the or a p-type transistor. This determines if the voltage to open the gate. Diffusion furnaces create by exposing the wafer to various gases at up to 100s of degrees celsius. Lithography, is one of the easiest steps but also one of the most important. Within a single processor die, there are billions of transistors and literally kilometers of tiny wires, but they're obviously far and solder them together by hand. So the wafer gets coated with then exposed to UV light through a mask. Anywhere the light the photo resist will be removed, allowing the exposed Then it's quite literally Nikon, who does a lot more has a great diagram on their So one such potential where the goal is to from the top of the wafer, These can be overfilled with then the excess gets using brushes and slurry in a process called Chemical There are different kinds of etching but we can talk about that (upbeat music) This is it. Point no return, here we go. There's no card or anything good high security. Time to learn the procedure. This is great, this is very inclusive, they have child size This is crazy. So these are not the gloves these are the gloves to put on the stuff that we're that will be contaminated that then we will get rid of after. Wow, man I'm looking sharp. Now time for stage two. basically we grab have a couple of little foot cover doodads here and and the idea is that filtered like the clean but by having a little bit we keep the super stanky So when you walk into here, you feel this gust of air coming out and then what you're supposed to do is you're supposed to have and then clean stuff on this side. So I gotta put my little booties on, did I do it right? Yep. Okay so there's more blowing that way, right? - Yes. - So the idea then I guess is the air gets cleaner and cleaner as we go. Okay, what do I do? - You start with the hood. - [Staff] Start from bot, top to bottom. - Top to bottom. - Okay, why do we go top to bottom? So that the dust won't fall - Better that it'll suit - Oh, got it. 'Cause that's how the garments overlap. I have a feeling our audio is not gonna be our finest ever for this video. Ladies and gentlemen cuz my microphone is already under three layers of fabric now. (upbeat music) - We're out of the gown room into the fab. - Into the fab. - And it's already crazy. Can you see these like Apparently these are taking the foups, and I check that is actually which is 25 wafers. So that's 25 slices of the That foup we just saw, that had hundreds of CPU dies in it, but we don't know how because they're actually where not only will they but they'll determine how well. So is it a core I7 or a core I9. Every guy wants to live, it sounds like a nerdy James Bond film. I love it. (upbeat music) Oh my God. This place is a lot bigger How many square feet is this? - Four football fields. - [Dani] So lithography is over there. Diffusion is over there. - ...the result of diffusion. - and deposition was over there? - Dry and wet etching on the side. - Etching. - And planar. - And planing. So we're gonna look at all of that but there's no particular because once a foup comes there're whipping around There are hundreds of stages. Each Alder Lake CPU die planing to deposition, back and forth hundreds of times, (upbeat music) Every silicon wafer and basically what these machines do. They're more like a, a furnace and they will take that top and they will diffuse it with I asked for some examples, but other than silicon oxide, they wouldn't really tell anything and in fact, they wouldn't even tell me what the first material layer would be for pure processors that Here we go, we can actually that would take the silicon and position them as This is the loading area down here that we can see through the window and then on top is the actual furnace where it reaches 100s of degrees and then it has gases in there that help them to achieve whatever kind of chemical on top of the wafer. One thing Intel's been don't touch anything because not pressing the wrong button, but actually even just When you're trying to build it that are on the side that means that the building are sub-nanometer in some cases. So you, you actually, you cannot, you cannot bump one of these and in fact, they only build their fabs on particularly stable parts of the world where they don't have to This is cool. As we're walking through diffusion, we actually got a great the multi-level structure of the fab. So what we're walking on is Above us are filters and the air comes from there down to here. Then below us is where chemistry delivery, you can see these punch-outs You can actually see there's like a foam, like vent of some sort that's next to us and then the air flows from top to bottom so it goes down to that layer, then it goes down to one more layer where they have water, as well as exhaust. So that air goes back up and recirculates. In total, Intel expects anywhere from 0 to 1 particle part, what was the unit of volume? 1 meter cubed and for context, an operating room could have tens of thousands of So you, you could conceivably assuming you were qualified. I asked about this sign and apparently it's just to make sure that as people are blowing they don't accidentally smoke someone coming out of the reticle room. This is one of those secret areas, even here inside the fab because it contains some of that they need for lithography it's also some of the most top secret. Now under normal circumstances, every one of these stations In fact, the entire factory 24/7, 364 days a year, only So I didn't ask because I'm but I think it's probably to have us in here poking around while they didn't sponsor Definitely shout out to Intel for how much it's costing them On that note, here's something cool. These tools are maybe not as sophisticated as some of the other you got your flathead screwdriver but the process is what's fascinating because taking a machine like this offline for more than a few minutes So they handle it kind of They've got all their tools, freaking ready to rock. They go, okay time, we're shutting it off, we're go, go, go, go, go, go, go, fire it back up. That's it. Don't worry, I will not hit any buttons. This is the emo button, okay? The machine will get This machine right here is So the foups come down and then while they're waiting, you can see they're actually sitting out cause they sit away from the machine and while they're being processed, they come up right next to it here, and then you can see grabbing wafers, whipping them around. It just throws it on here 5 or 10 seconds, boom, it's dry etched. It goes back in the foup and then that whole foup whatever the next step is for We don't know exactly what it's making, but everything here is Intel 7 so, modern CPUs pretty much or maybe future CPUs for all I know. Not every drying machine is identical as you guys can imagine. For all the different that a wafer goes through, there might be different machinery. So this is another example where the wafer actually and does whatever the heck it's doing. Now we're heading back to which is why the lighting in the fab has changed back to yellow and the reason for that to expose the wafers. So if they have white light, it could easily contain that could accidentally expose the wafer. So they have to use these that will not cause as they're ripping around in the foup or going in and out of the machines. Fun fact, each of these machines 30$ to $40 million and it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out or I should say a, a chip architect to figure out that when you put this many into an area of the size that's gonna cost a pretty penny and it's because of those costs entire sort of row of cabinets in between the east and This entire thing is full of foups that are just waiting to be processed because the second one of you want to be loading it up with silicon so you can make more processors. Now we're out of lithography again, we're in the east side of the fab which is also freaking enormous and the first machine are deposition machines. So what these do is they'll take the wafer and they'll apply some extraordinarily thin layer of something, say for example, metal, okay? Then it comes back into the foup, back up to the rails and Did I ever say, we're - [Dennis] - Yes you did. - Now depending on the cuz remember they you go back and forth hundreds of times for a single die, you don't necessarily want the you might want this kind of Now the actual exact shape is and extremely difficult to control because unlike a dry you can actually hear You hear that right now, so there's actually Another key consideration if you've got such expensive So one of the things that is how they're using augmented reality practically right here in the So one is due to COVID 19. Obviously some personnel were for an extended period of time. So remote assist allows to actually have someone else or explaining it to them while Pretty freaking cool. It's also used as a training resource for maintenance of old machines so you can kind of learn by doing, and they're actually gonna Hey, here's our, here's and you got some my Oh, that's awesome. So it shows you all the tools you need. So there's a little instructional Very cool. Hey, look at me, I'm a fab Unfortunately the windows on but we did manage to catch one that is being processed right now so we've got some footage to show guys. Essentially after the deposition step, you're gonna end up with that needs to be polished off. Now in the past, they might have actually submerged but now it's actually done by a brush that has a slurry on very proprietary. They wouldn't even give me any this polishing with liquid but they did tell me that the pressure as has to be so precise that they a few atoms or molecules at a time. You could see the way for moving spinning bottom. Crazy. One thing that's missing is that loads all the wafers in is. Where the foup is it? Haha, get it? Cause it's a foup. By the way, something I didn't mention before is that each of the actually has a number, but it also has these animals because Intel found that especially in a multi-layered in order to make sure that the is actually, you know, shutting down the correct it's much easier to communicate Oh, we're working on a giraffe Apparently most of the staff we're actually maintenance and the actual control center is elsewhere. So we're gonna head over there now. This is the remote you could think of kind of that we just saw. So if something goes wrong, it's gonna pop up as an so it's the job of everyone in this room to optimize the overall So instead of having technicians moving things around and turning dials, everything is done right here to ensure that they're pumping as because once you invest 30$ to 40$ million in a machine times, however many were in there, (chuckles) you want them going as as often as you possibly can. (upbeat music) Every shift, they have to do two stretching you know, minimize the risk of RSI, cuz they're basically sitting every day, right? (applauds) But like the friend who because he wanted to show off his new car, Intel had a bit of an and that is to show off that they're making into fab 38. So everything that we just This roundabout, see you later in about two weeks. That entire construction site out there is going to be state of the art, new generation fabrication technology that will actually be integrated so tightly with the existing fab that you could actually utilize equipment in the other and then send it back although that's gonna be quite a distance for the foups to travel. To give you some idea of how enormous this Intel actually built their in the corner of the lot over there which you can see at the very back. Unreal. One of the big reasons Intel is building out fab is a new concept called IDM 2.0 where basically instead of only they're going to be fabing products for third party companies which I personally given that we're sitting largest ever global silicon shortage, I'm pretty excited about. Now, unfortunately there in the die creation process that we weren't able to see today. The addition of the bumps that connect the dye to the that doesn't happen here QC starts with an end of the line E-test, which checks the functionality and transistors that are specifically meant to be there to ensure that everything went Then it proceeds to binning. Which is the process of according to their capabilities. Obviously the best of the the next best will be core Other than that 12th is a pretty unique product for Intel with much of the design and manufacturing done here in Israel. Once the wafer's done, Intel sends it to one of for slicing and packaging and a second validation step called class where they basically to ensure that no degradation took place and that the packaging was done properly. This along with design phase testing that simulates the effects of CPU aging is where it Intel's reputation comes from. I mean, think about it, when you're troubleshooting the CPU is the last because unless you dropped Packaging by the way, is gonna be getting a lot more complicated over the next few years like the upcoming Sapphire and it's expected that packaging facilities of yesteryear are gonna be getting a lot more fab like. I mean, a packaging error on a $10,000 server CPU is a pretty expensive mistake needs to be thrown away at that stage if something goes wrong. Maybe that should be Am I right? Actually, I'm not gonna This was a once in a lifetime opportunity and I'm extremely grateful Shout out to Karen by to you guys for coming and of course, to my sponsor. Ting mobile. Ting mobile has rates how much you can save by switching. They have a perfect plan for everybody no matter what your needs are. Unlimited talk and text for 10 bucks, data plans that start at $15, then there's their set 12 plan and unlimited data for $45. If you like their previous, Ting mobile's flexed plans are still there. Data can also be shared so connect more phones to save more. You'll still get nationwide coverage and award-winning support. In fact, consumer their number one carrier in America. Pretty much any phone so check them out atlinus.ting.com If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out one of previous tours. It's been a little while, but