An ancient civilisation whose origins are one major civilisation on the Italian peninsula. like any other language we know of. My name is The Etruscans are often described as mysterious and their language is still not entirely regarded them as pirates and frivolous people deserved. That's why till these days in jump straight to Rome. But there was a very Etruscan civilisation - which in many ways The Etruscans inhabited the region of Etruria, and northern Lazio in Italy. At its heigh Alps in the North and to Campania in the South They successfully rivalled Phoenicians and from a writing system to gladiator fights civilisation of that period had. The usage the 8th century BC, flourishing through before gradually declining. By the 1st century though it continued to be used in some The Etruscans got dissolved in the customs were forgotten. But let's try to Emperor Claudius who ruled over the Roman time writing historical treaties, including a what it's called. Such a massive book based on invaluable source on the history and language call their civilisation mysterious at all... We have to work with what is available to us. Herodotus places the origin of the Etruscans the Pelasgians, left Lydia around 1200BC fleeing island of Lemnos and from there migrated West Herodotus shouldn't always be trusted. After giant gold-dogging ants. But the closer more precise and actually historic he gets, so we a later historian Xanthus of Lydia, who was nothing about the exodus of the Etruscans. Even of the immigrants from Troy.. Etruscans liked to probably, there is nothing like the prestige Some historians claim that Etruscans could who brought the Bronze age civilisations to the tribes of the Sea Peoples, one of latin name, they were called Tyrrhenoi by the sea comes from. Teresh - Tyrrhenoi, sounds very case it is indeed a coincidence. Etruscans called Yes, Egyptians could have used a Greek name. And that could have just been a bad reputation Finally there is also the Lemnos stele - inscriptions that look suspiciously like mentions as the place where Pelasgians ventured to Etruria. So is that it then? if this stele could was installed not their descendants? Etruscan traders were roaming Another theory of the Etruscan origins is the CE, a Roman historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus the Italian peninsula. Archeological findings seem presence of the Etruscans can be traced as the adoption of Etruscan alphabet is called by its distinctive burial practices, with cremated Iron Age Villanovan culture in the 10th century, which itself descends from the Central European of cremating the dead and placing their ashes However the Urnfield culture is associated and the Etruscans didn't speak an Indo-European there is a smooth continuity between the cultures In fact, the Etruscan culture is basically 8th century BC their culture started to get more Phoenician and Greek merchants and thus getting They accumulated wealth, their settlements Most of the information we have about the They took death very seriously. They to the mini-models of their houses. The with endless feasts and partying. Etruscans them a reputation of decadent people from the even ok for an Etruscan woman to feast alongside Genetics also supports the autochthonous wasn't much different from the scientists also studied the genetics Anatolian origins. That is not a direct proof have been bought from somewhere and then What is even more interesting that ancient video was kindly sponsored by ADNTRO and I where do my ancestors come from. So here we go. possible. I really need to find out 16% Baltic. I do come from Latvia but I This was really insightful but in reality of this stuff. Nutrition, intolerances, behaviour, since I'm the kind of person that that for every single metric there is a about it. And each research is ranked is constantly updated since genetics is quickly ANDTRO don't ask you for your name or any You can get 10% off with the or for uploading raw data if you've but you want to discover all of this extra While genetics and archaeology are primordial there is also a third element to it - the end. Etruscan is an isolate language with no other language out there - to Semitic, to Basque, For now we only know of two other languages and Rhaetic, but that does not help, as we the language of that Lemnos stele we saw before, only have a couple of inscriptions remaining. are around 280 inscriptions in this language, These two languages could be the descendants of but it's hard to tell. The three languages are considered to be one of the Paleo-European that precedes Indo-European migration and was So these are the facts that we have for now: the Proto-Villanova and the Etruscan culture. The Etruscan language is not Indo-European and could be related to it. Now the theories. The language being spoken in Etruria since the Proto-Villanova culture develops and in the Iron century BC it gets a boost by connecting to the Phoenician traders and develops its own writing island of Lemnos, and that's why the myth Sounds believable? I think it does. Now how about just around 1200BC a group of settlers from not a large group, so they quickly mixed with more advanced, they conquered the land and for their language to dominate, even though the something similar to what happened I have a video about that, so check it out, The arrival of more culturally advanced group of of the Proto-Villanova culture into something Phoenicians arrived, they adapt these new Does that sound plausible? Honestly, it could we know for sure is that the Etruscan language is now that we've discussed all the possible let's finally dive into their language. Greek alphabet, more precisely the Euboean Greek Apparently the Etruscans were very impressed their alphabet everywhere: here is the alphabet god ... pointing to the alphabet, trying to tell divination that involved observing lightning writing messages in the sky for them to decipher. almost didn't modify the Greek alphabet and they the letters that weren't useful for them - like D, G and O. They actually kept the Greek K - that's why in the Latin alphabet, which the descendant of gamma, is also read as that looks like the number 8, pronounced as F. arrived to 20 letters. This is alphabet that The language had four vowels, A, E, I, U. D, G. Instead, it differentiated aspirated and they adopted loanwords, voiced stops became which became the Etruscan triumpus, and then vowels disappear - that might suggest that There are more than 10 000 Etruscan inscriptions right to left, or sometimes from right to left were written without spaces. In later texts Some discoveries have been invaluable, leaves with bilingual Etruscan and Phoenician The most famous is probably the &quot;Liber Linteus", used for an Egyptian mummy wrapping, discovered an Etruscan priest travels to Egypt with his happens. The Egyptians were full into recycling into narrow pieces and wrap a mummy in it. Fast traveller buys a mummy in a bazaar in Alexandria Zagreb. Only there it was unwrapped and the texts turned out to be the longest Etruscan text we have The question now is - we found so many we even have a Rosetta Stone, why haven't we reasons. Firstly, because the language is not like reference to help us out. And secondly, most of of some names or similar, typical, ritualistic understand about the Etruscan language so far. but from what we do know it seems that Etruscan open to debate. Etruscan was an agglutinative suffixes and postpositions. The word order was even see OSV and OVS, probably for poetic reasons. grammatical gender, and there were 2 different Because of the nature of the inscriptions that verb. We recognise that there were present indicative and imperative moods... but we're not that the verb system was super complex, but for Vocabulary is a mystery too. Most of the times the context of an inscription and then see if a lot of Etruscan names, of course, since most we know the god names; we know kinship terms; of a dice gives us the exact numbers from 1 to 6, Are there any traces of Etruscan since we don't know that many Etruscan words time we know that so many city names in Italy Parma, Modena and so many more. Also, the word comes from Etruscan "phersu", which means discover that Etruscans and their language had In the end of the 5th century AD once great was helplessly trying to push away the hordes despair, already Christian Romans, turned towards who predicted the future based on the entrails of long gone, but for one last time, Etruscan words native speaker passed away. This divination origins since it was common in the Middle East. are free to believe in a theory you prefer, or and maybe you will be the one who finally the mystery of the Etruscans. Thank you so much