One of the most basic input devices on a computer is used to input commands to the computer. numbers, and symbols, that you can press with keyboard is to do things like word processing, so on. Keyboards come equipped with two different connector which has pretty much become obsolete. A lot of keyboards will have the ability to they will come with a D to USB adapter which a D or USB connection. A mouse is another basic input device that that fits in the palm of your hand and replicates screen. It s used for things like starting and surfing the internet. A mouse will typically will have one button, while a Windows mouse A digital camera is a device that takes digital where the images are stored on film, a digital drive or on a camera's SD card. And once the to a computer by using a USB cable or by the the images can be viewed or printed. A barcode reader is a device that is used barcodes and it's typically used to detect can connect to a computer through a serial Barcode readers can come in several forms Now a scanner is a device that enables you your computer. So for example, if you have a digital image of that photo or document enables you to do. Scanners would typically or document face down and at the press of scanner moves across the document or photo will typically come in a combination with all by itself. A touch screen is basically an LCD monitor that senses a touch by a finger. It works but without the mouse itself because you are receives a touch in the same way as if you click on the mouse button equals one tap by two taps by your finger. Touch screens are tablets such as the iPad and they're also A webcam is a device that is used for capturing for video conferencing and video calling over can visually communicate with each other if And most webcams have a built-in microphone typically through a USB cable. And webcams such as Skype for making visual calls. And are Logitech and Microsoft. A media card reader gives the computer the such as cameras. It s a small device that that connects to a computer and then the body sizes of memory cards. For example, micro the data from the memory cards can be read A docking station is used for laptop computers. your laptop into virtually a desktop computer. smaller than desktops. For example, on the small. So if you wanted to use your laptop monitor and keyboard, you can simply set the automatically connect to them and use them to the docking station, whether it's a monitor, the hassle of connecting all these individually. them instantly. But there's one thing to remember to the manufacturer. So there is no such thing need to get the specific one for the laptop. A KVM switch allows you to control multiple and mouse. A KVM is typically a box with ports has their own individual cable connections can press so that you can switch to a different in different sizes depending upon how many switch will have the ability to control two eight computers. KVMs are handy when you want need for a dedicated monitor, keyboard, and but it also saves space. A lot of TVs today are smart TVs. A smart watch TV but you can also connect to the internet. a computer. And when it's connected to the and television shows. And you can also interact video messaging services such as Skype because webcam and microphone. One way to prove the identity of a person a good choice to prove your identity because your identification. A smart card is the same chip. And a smart card reader is a device A biometric device is used to prove the identity characteristics. For example, a fingerprint read a user's fingerprint to prove authentication. will be built into a device such as a laptop across the fingerprint scanner and the scanner on your fingerprint. Another type of input device is a motion sensor. in mid air without making any physical contact typically connect to your computer using a Now a digitizer is a device that is used to and convert it into a digital form on your like a tablet with a stylus and as you draw record the image from the stylus and process typically connects to your computer using Other input devices include game pads and you would typically use for gaming systems also use these for computers and if you're typically connect using a USB connection. A computer monitor is the primary output component video adapter through a monitor cable and monitor may have a VGA, DVI, HDMI, or a display Now an older type of monitor is called CRT. a technology first used in TV sets. These lot of desk space and they are pretty much An image is produced on a CRT by using three-color and green, which when you combine them they spectrum. And these guns shoot beams of electrons see. These beams repeatedly sweep across the So it's constantly redrawing the image that the image is known as the refresh rate. And for example, if the refresh rate is 60 hertz the entire face of the monitor, redrawing Now to the naked eye most people cannot detect of times some people complain of discomfort constant refreshing of the image. But this refresh rate which makes the refreshing of amount of eye discomfort. Inside CRT monitors is a metal plate called up outside external magnetic fields which because of this CRT monitors need to be degaussed. the unwanted magnetic fields and most CRTs turned on or the monitor may have a button Another type of monitor is LCD which stands an image on a flat surface by using liquid to produce an image on the screen. And it LCDs were first used in laptop computers and and have completely replaced CRT monitors. and take up less space than CRTs. LCDs are Modern LCDs use a technology called TFT which name implies, this technology uses a thin image when compared to a standard LCD. Because transistor and all LCDs sold today have TFT Now there are two different types of LCD monitors exam. And one of them is called TN. TN stands monitor works by liquid crystals actually TN is an older and cheaper technology that's angles and the color reproduction on a TN monitor. A TN monitor is often used with calculators, Now a newer and more modern type of LCD monitor This type of monitor works by, instead of monitor, the liquid crystals in an IPS monitor with the glass. IPS LCDs use more transistors consume more power. IPS monitors were designed They offer better color reproduction and better In order for LCD monitors to show an image there are a couple of types of back lighting lighting is by using fluorescent lamps. These tubing types similar to the regular fluorescent lamps emit ultraviolet light that's created ionized. And another type of backlighting that LCD light emitting diodes that are arranged in screen. Now this is a more modern form of backlighting. In fact most if not all new of these monitors are considered LCD monitors is considered an LED monitor. So an LED monitor Resolution is defined as a number of pixels For example, if a monitor is set to a resolution 1280 horizontal pixels by 720 vertical pixels. that are being used. The higher the resolution, which means a clearer and sharper image. Depending resolutions can be set anywhere from 640x480 best quality image when they are set to their resolution. Resolutions are also given different names for extended graphics array. This has a resolution graphics array. This has a resolution of 1280x1024. plus. This has a resolution of 1400x1050. This has a resolution of 1600x1200. And WUXGA array and this has a resolution of 1920x1200. And lastly, the contrast ratio. The contrast and white the higher the contrast the better Printers allow the ability to print copies computer. There are several different ways The most common way is by using a USB or parallel because the printer is directly connected But you can also connect a printer through such as an ethernet port or a wireless antenna. printers are convenient because the printer as long as it's connected to the network. Another method of connecting is through a other computers that are on your network connect over the network. So after the printer share now print to the printer that is connected acts as a gateway for other computers to access computer has to be on in order for others There are several different types of printers. Non-impact printers print without striking inkjet, and thermal printers. Impact printers shortly. Inkjet printers are the most common printers works by the printhead moving back and forth process the printhead places ink on the paper so tiny that they are smaller in diameter placed they form to create an image on paper. Inkjet printers typically come with two ink is for black. Inkjet printers are more affordable quality results. But one of the drawbacks smudge, while ink from a laser printer does The next printers we're going to talk about different sizes, from small personal ones, printers provide the highest quality print A laser printer basically works by placing a laser discharges a lower electrical charge the image that is going to be printed on the a fine black powder, known as toner. And as to the areas where the laser has drawn. Then toner is placed on the paper. And the result none. Another non-impact printer is called a thermal Thermal printers use special print paper called wax based ink. And when heat is applied to the only thing the print head does is apply placed. Then when the ink is cooled it becomes thermal printers are very quiet. Thermal printers barcodes. Dot matrix printers are almost non-existent mediocre print quality when compared to laser noisy. Dot matrix printers are impact printers. across the paper and as it moves, the pins ribbon which then comes in direct contact the form of dots. But despite being an outdated multi copy documents such as carbon copies. time. Several issues are going to happen when you're something and you see streaks, well then this on an inkjet printer. A lot of times the software of software tools that you can use to clean you may have to remove the ink cartridges with a lint-free cloth. Or another problem and the image is faded or it's completely dirty ink cartridges or it could be something Now ghosting is another problem that can happen see a faint image of a page that you previously printed page. And this is usually caused by printer has a lifespan after so many prints try replacing the drum but if you still see then the problem could be the fuser. So then Paper jams are another problem that can happen and the paper doesn't come out well then you caused by debris inside the printer and debris of the paper coming out creased or it could this typically happens with older printers to have difficulty grabbing the paper and might want to inspect the rollers to see if and check for any debris inside the printer. and the color may not be printing correctly of the color ink cartridges are faulty or A lot of times when you're trying to print well then this could be a connectivity issue. when you're dealing with network printers. ones. For example, make sure the printer is on the printer's LCD display if it has one. make sure that the network cable is connected things first before diving into the more complicated an actual IP address because doing the simple of time. Instead of printing a document onto physical store it on your computer in a digital form printing is done for several reasons and one Print-to-file saves a document in a ready So for example, if you want to print a document can use the print-to-file feature and it will form that can be sent to another computer, drive transfer, and then that computer can Another form of virtual printing is called format. Printing a file to PDF prints a virtual readable across all devices, whether it's printed to a PDF, the file can be transferred or through a flash drive. And because the new device on the market today will be able software. But older devices may need additional document. The most common PDF reader is Adobe download. A computer has basically two types of memory: memory is temporary which we'll talk about and this deals with the hard disk drive. The magnetic disks and these disks are where the at high speeds and as they do the actuator read data from the disks depending upon what can rotate at speeds of either 5400, 7200, used today in desktops would operate at 7200 typically at the 5400 RPM range which is also And the higher-end hard drives would operate hard drives are not commonly used anymore drives. And also, hard drives are considered data when not connected to a power source. Hard drives today use the serial ATA interface. than the old parallel ATA interface. Instead data travels in a serial path. Which means drives have transfer speeds averaging 6 gigabits the old parallel ATA. Other advantages of and the cables are a lot smaller which makes Another type of storage device is a solid parts. This type of drive uses flash memory parts the data transfer is very fast. There are also drives out there that combine and these are called hybrid drives. Hybrid and the low cost of magnetic disks with the disks will be used to store data while the of the data. Hybrid drives are primarily used are considerably more expensive than magnetic Removable storage is both convenient and portable internally in a computer, they are attached A tape drive is an inexpensive way to back to a computer usually with a USB cable and Which basically means that if you ever have data in the same order as you backed it up. CD-ROM drives have become a standard component data from a CD-ROM which is a disc that stores disc read only memory, which means that the or written to. CD-RW stands for compact disc rewritable. a CD. It has a moving laser assembly that are two different kinds of CDs that can be or CD-RW which stands for a CD rewritable. a CD-RW allows data to be rewritten multiple MB of data. A DVD-ROM drive is a device that reads DVD ordinary CD-ROM drives because of the larger approximately 4.7 GB of data. And all DVD And like a CD-RW drive there is also a DVD-RW a DVD. It can write data onto DVD-R discs stated previously a DVD disc can hold approximately have the capability of burning dual-layer drives. Dual layer DVDs have two recordable amount of data than a regular DVD. Dual layer Blu-ray is the latest optical drive to date replace the DVD format because of its high laser compared to DVD which allows a Blu-ray standard Blu-ray disc can hold 25 GB of data like CD recordable and DVD recordable drives, is called BD-R or Blu-ray disc recordable to a Blu-ray disc one time. Or you can also disc using a BD-RE or Blu-ray recordable erasable Blu-ray discs hold 25 GB of data or there's 50 GB of data. Another type of removable storage is what's no moving parts. This type of memory uses thumb drives. A thumb drive is a miniature devices can store anywhere from 500 MB up fit on a keychain. These are a fast and convenient Secure digital or SD cards are a popular type in digital cameras for storing photographs can then be easily transferred to a computer come in various capacities, anywhere from Other types of SD cards include the mini SD of the different sizes here. And while the lot of digital cameras, the micro SD card adding extra storage. Another type of flash drive that is commonly Compact flash cards provide quick and easy and they can be easily transferred to a computer And a type of non-standard SD card will be for extreme digital. And this was a type that The kind of memory that would typically find EMMC stands for embedded multimedia controller. a flash memory controller into one package. or embedded memory. And not the external storage Now a hot spare is defined as equipment that off the power. So for example, if you had drives and if a hard drive were to fail you would just simply remove the hard drive and is still on. Now a cold spare is similar to a hot spare power first in order to replace the piece You may come across issues when you're dealing two of the biggest cell phone operating systems today are touchscreen and one of the common is that sometimes they are not responsive. So when this happens, the best thing to do then turn it back on and a lot of times this on and you still have the issue you can try back in. Or if that doesn't work then you and you can refer to the manufacturer's documents your specific device. Or sometimes you may have issues when you may have an issue with the performance of very slow. And a lot of this is caused by apps are eating up memory and CPU resources or even freezing it. So the first thing you you have opened and see if that fixes the way to close apps is to doubleclick the home and it will close the app. Or if that doesn't device. In fact you'll find that just restarting Also with cell phones you may encounter issues on your phone require a GPS. So if a certain GPS is turned off. So the first and most obvious your phone and make sure that the GPS is turned on and you're still having issues, you have for communication, so for example if there with satellite communication. Or maybe there's interfere with GPS satellite communication. Now as far as troubleshooting issues with you turn the power on, your screen is blank, hear the fans running and you may see the and this is called a no-display issue. Now best thing to do right off the start is that and connect an external monitor to your laptop monitor because most if not all laptops will a laptop where you can hook up an external external monitor, then that most likely means and it needs to be replaced. Another problem is that when you turn the other words, the display is very dim. And replace the inverter. The inverter is a small monitor. It converts DC current to AC current. display panel just below the screen. You may also encounter an issue with your Now, your battery is in the laptop and a battery there's an indicator informing you that the could be a problem with the battery itself be a problem with the laptop's motherboard. is fully charged but the battery only lasts is a very common issue with older laptops. old, the battery will only last a few minutes last about 10 minutes on a full charge. And capacity to hold a charge as they get older. is just replace the battery for the laptop. Now if you press the power button on your you don't see any power LEDs, your screen turning. Well then one of the first things charger is plugged into the wall and that And once you verify that and still nothing laptop. In other words, the motherboard is A flickering monitor can also be related to is related to movement. In other words, if move the laptop. So this is a definite hardware LCD or inverter. Problems with keys sticking is another issue ll notice is that laptop keyboards are not more susceptible to wear and tear. So they going to repair or replace a keyboard on the Another issue on laptops is sometimes people that the mouse cursor will move all by itself. main reason that this happens, especially with customers, is that when a person types don't realize that the palms of their hand the touchpad which will move the cursor. And go to the software touchpad settings on the issue that could cause this problem could thing to do in this case is to go to the manufacturer's drivers for the touchpad. A very common thing that happens with laptops as they're working on their laptop, the laptop symptom of overheating. Now laptops have air of the laptop, along with fans. And air passes the laptop. But if these vents are blocked dusty, it will hinder the laptop's cooling get a can of compressed air and blow out the or debris. But another issue that causes a people use their laptops and they're not placing they're using them on the couch or on their the vents and fans will get blocked and will and vents are on the bottom of the laptop. All laptops have the capability of wireless a situation where you have an intermittent by a problem where there is interference between could also be that you're out of range of Another issue could be that you need to update when there's a new operating system that's this issue to be very common with the release Windows 10, where a common fix, to fix an laptop's manufacturer's website and update The power supply is a device that supplies box with a bunch of wires emerging from one is usually located at the very top or the supply converts 110v AC current into the specific common form factor that a power supply comes The power supply is equipped with different the P1 connector. This is the main power connector and provides it with power. The P1 connector connector is called the P4. This is a four-pin and its purpose is to supply power to the Another connector is called molex. The molex disk drives such as hard drives and CD and There is also a serial ATA connector. This connect disc drives that have a serial ATA four pin berg connector or mini connector. supply power to the floppy drive. And finally to supply power to certain PCIE video cards. The motherboard is the main component of a where all the computer components connect socket is where the CPU or central processing There's also the memory slots and this is RAM are inserted. And there s also the bus components to add more capabilities to a computer card, and so on. Motherboards come in different shapes and form factor motherboard that is used in PCSs extended. It was created in 1995 by Intel for PCs today. A full size ATX motherboard of ATX was the AT form factor. AT stands for that was used in the 1980s that was developed in size and they are no longer in development Another version of the ATX motherboard is smaller than ATX boards as its name suggests. so it's a square design compared to the standard than ATX boards and were designed to fit in features and consume less power than a standard The BTX form factor was designed by Intel form factor, such as an improved board design, improves cooling. For example, notice how with the direction of the air flow instead Another improvement is the structure design cases and larger tower cases. And BTX motherboards technologies such as serial ATA, USB 2.0, Even smaller than Micro-ATX and BTX motherboards, factor came out in 2001, starting with the for the ever increasing demand for smaller, less power and because they use less power, sinks and not with fans. ITX was developed four sizes that are in the ITX-form factor. which came out in 2005, and was designed to media centers, and cars. Then there's also 2009 VIA Technologies introduced the smallest with the release of the mobile-ITX. The mobile-ITX provide developers with a standardized and computer-based products. Another form factor is the NLX. NLX was created profile computers. Instead of expansion cards the NLX boards use a riser card, where expansion You will typically find NLX boards in slimline Motherboards come built with several input located on the rear input output panel of The PS2 connector is a six pin multi-din connector. and are usually located towards the top of in the mouse. This is the green PS2 slot. which is the purple slot. But PS2 connectors phased out in favor of the USB port. The most common interface on a motherboard bus and motherboards will typically have several peripherals that utilize the USB interface. drives, and printers. In addition to connectivity, to that specific peripheral. Some USB ports and some are located directly on the surface was version 1.0 in 1996. The transfer speed introduced in 1998 with a transfer speed of in 2001 with a transfer speed of 480 Mbits 3.0. This has data transfer speeds of up to Another interface that can be found in older serial refers to sending data one bit at a interface which is rarely seen on new motherboards connecting terminals and modems to computers. faster USB interface. The most common interface uses the common D connector such as the DE-9. The parallel port is another interface that It was mainly used for connecting printers phased out and replaced by the faster performance known as the DB-25. And unlike serial ports port sends data signals simultaneously over A video adapter is another interface that it could appear because some motherboards motherboards that do have a video adapter the video adapter and the motherboard are what generates images from your computer to on an integrated video adapter is VGA which carries analog data, it has 15 pins divided Integrated video adapters are usually not use with light applications but when used gaming, they can fall short. That's why a and buy an aftermarket video card that has The IEEE 1394 connector is commonly known D shape and is commonly used to attach devices very similar to a USB port. Firewire and USB both have similar transfer speeds. But firewire modern motherboard today there might not be find one or two. And firewire has a transfer The NIC or network interface card is a port purposes such as connecting to the internet is designed for an ethernet cable with an computer with a constant dedicated connection identifier called a MAC address. The transfer A sound card is another type of interface just like integrated video, if a motherboard as integrated sound. A sound card is what A basic sound card has an audio output port a microphone for recording purposes. More ports, for example ports for subwoofers and audio equipment. Some motherboards have a SATA port on the eSATA or external SATA. eSATA is for attaching an external SATA hard drive. It functions speed is faster. But the disadvantage it has requires a separate power plug to supply the port called eSATAp which is power over eSATA. in an all-in-one port similar to USB and firewire. Adapter cards or expansion cards are circuit slots on a computer's motherboard. These adapter of the computer. Some examples of expansion cards, and so on. One of the most common adapter cards is a images from your computer to your monitor. board that directly attaches to the computer's graphics cards, graphics adapters, and so such as a graphics processor unit or GPU, The way video is transferred from the video There are several different types of video S-video or separate video or also known as It transmits two signals over one cable. One for brightness. The S- video port is round Another port is called VGA. This stands for technology that was developed in 1987. The and usually has a blue color. The VGA port Another video port is called the digital visual designed to succeed the older VGA port. It to provide uncompressed high quality video Now there are three different versions of the A stands for analog and this is used to DVI-D where the D stands for digital and this there's also the DVI-I where the I stands analog and digital signals. Now on the connectors would be the DVI-D and a DVI-I, there are There's single link and dual link. The difference pins are what allows for a higher resolution Another type of video port is called HDMI interface. HDMI was developed in 2002 and video and audio digital data through a single high definition in consumer electronics, delivering And then there's also the displayport. The by VISA which stands for the video electronics primarily designed to be used for video but carry USB and audio data as well. It's a high the older VGA and DVI interfaces and it can VGA, and HDMI ports. A sound card is another type of adapter card speakers. A card attaches into the computer's card has an audio output port for attaching for recording purposes. More sophisticated ports for subwoofers and surround sound and Other adapter cards include input output cards. card is an input/output card with a firewire ports or if you wanted to add extra firewire card into your computer's motherboard and Another input/output card is a USB card. Like to a computer. Now since the USB port is so to use the USB port, usually a computer will needs. But if you're the kind of user that more USB ports. There are also adapter cards for storage, a RAID card on a computer and implement a s important to note that in a hardware RAID is not aware of a RAID implementation. The the RAID card. We'll talk about RAID in an And there are also eSATA cards or external SATA ports to a computer. So you can add external backing up and storing data. Some people have video capture cards installed user to capture analog video, for example it to a digital form and then store it on a hard drive. And TV tuner cards allow signals from a television only watch TV from your computer but you can digitally in your computer. In fact a lot card. Another type of adapter card is a network connect a computer to a network by using an with a network adapter that is installed on data into parallel data so the computer can a constant dedicated connection to a network, called a MAC address. A wireless network card does the same thing card does not use a cable to connect to a It has a built-in antenna that is used to receive data. Now this is very convenient in different locations in a home or office Some laptops have an external slot that is an expansion card for laptop computers. It stands for personal computer memory card international peripheral interface designed for laptop computers. slot giving the laptop computer added capability modem card. RAM or random access memory is temporary memory memory slots. A motherboard can have a various will have between two and four of them. Memory what type of RAM it accepts, for example most it's the most common type to date. DIMM stands module has either 168, 184, or 240, pins. has two independent rows of these pins, one path. Another type of memory module is a SIMM. SIMM SIMM is an older technology and has since also has pins on both sides like a DIMM, but to a DIMM which are independent. A SIMM will path. Another type of memory module is called RIMM which was developed by the company Rambus to a DIMM with the exception that the bottom In 1999 RIMMs were a breakthrough in the speed due to the advancement of technology in DIMMs. Now the term 32 or 64-bit data path refers in one cycle. The more bits that are transferred will be. A single bit or one bit of data is reads because in the computing world, a computer by a single bit of data. Now there's also the term byte, and 8 bits rated to have a 64-bit data path, then that or bus because 64 / 8 equals 8. And if a memory then that means that it has a 4 byte wide DIMMs are faster than SIMMs. Now this information we determine the exact bandwidth of memory Cooling is very important to a computer. Computers of the computer are not adequately cooled, the computer will either run slow, lock up, the life of the computer because heat is an biggest heat generators come from the CPU So the main way to adequately cool the computer the computer case. A basic case fan setup is mounted in the front of the computer, is in cool air from outside the case, to inside which is located in the back of the case and And once these fans are in place, they're a constant flow of cool air coming into and components. So the cool air comes in, cools contact with the hot components, the air naturally case. And then the cycle starts all over again type of cooling is known as active cooling. The biggest heat generator in the computer brain of the computer and it produces an enormous In fact if a CPU were to run by itself without likely fry itself within 10 seconds. So to to help dissipate the heat. A heatsink is directly makes contact with the CPU. And its the CPU so that it can make more air contact larger the surface area will be, thus increasing are designed to further increase the surface makes contact, the heat will transfer from which will cool the CPU. And this type of It s important that the heatsink and CPU make cooling can take place. So that's why it's CPU before attaching the heat sink. Thermal air gaps between the heat sink and the CPU surfaces. The surface areas between the CPU perfectly flat when examined with a microscope. these gaps so that the most contact can be A newer type of cooling is water cooling. uses water to cool the computer components. for the CPU. There is a pump, hosing, and The unit is placed directly on top of the pump inside constantly circulates the water cool. Once the water reaches the radiator, fan that draws air into the radiator and cools flow of cool water makes contact with the units cool components far better than air the same time, water coolers are more expensive. In section one we talked about secondary memory hard drives. Now we'll talk about primary RAM. RAM stands for random access memory in to be loaded into RAM first. So here is how the hard drive, then from the hard drive it RAM, the CPU can now access the data or run is too low it might not be able to hold all happens then some of the data has to be kept So instead of data going from RAM to the CPU, hard drive, and when this happens it slows all you need to do is increase the amount the memory, all the data can be loaded into the hard drive. And the result is a faster RAM requires constant electrical power to then the data is erased. RAM is stored on DIMMs and these DIMMs come in different memory MB up to 64 GB of memory per DIMM. RAM also or DRAM. DRAM is memory that contains capacitors refreshed often. SRAM stands for static RAM. This memory uses unlike DRAM and because of this it is much An example of SRAM would be the memory cache Another type of memory is called SDRAM which memory is what is used today in RAM DIMMs. speed. The older DRAM technology operates basically means that it runs slower than the with it. But SDRAM runs in sync with the system All the signals are tied to the system clock SDRAM is rated at different speeds. For example, The 100 equals the speed at which it operates in 64-bit modules, it has an 8 byte wide bus out the total bandwidth of PC-100, you multiply second. So the total bandwidth of PC-100 equals So an SDRAM module labeled PC-133, you multiply bandwidth for PC-133 equals 1066 MB per second. As technology increased and processor and was developed to keep up with the faster speeds DDR which stands for double data rate. And the amount of data in each clock signal when data rate RAM uses only the rising edge of both the rising and falling edges of the clock as fast. DDR is also labeled differently than non-DDR its name like PC-133 where 133 equals the instead. For example, a DDR DIMM labeled PC-2700, the actual total bandwidth. The clock speed bytes is rounded off to 2700 MB per second, Another example is PC-3200. PC-3200 has a 3200, which is where we get the name PC-3200. A new technology that has succeeded DDR is for higher bus speeds and it also uses less to 184 pins on DDR. Some examples of DDR2 And the latest RAM technology is called DDR3. of over 12,800 MB per second. Like DDR2, a in the DIMMs are in different places. So you DDR2. In fact, motherboards are made to support DDR 1, 2, or 3, on the same motherboard. Some Another type of memory is called RDRAM which the RIMM which stands for rambus inline memory to DIMMs with the exception that the bottom In 1999 RIMMs were a breakthrough in the speed to the advancement of technology in DIMMs. When RDRAM debuted in 1999 it ran at 800 MHz ran at 133 MHz at that time. But even though had a 2 byte wide bus compared to SDRAM which the speed of RDRAM which was 800 MHz x the a total bandwidth of 1600 MB per second. RIMM technology was designed to work with other memory slots on the motherboard must other RIMMs are not available, then a user is basically a dummy RIMM to ensure continuity To meet the higher demands of faster processors developed called dual channel mode. Dual channel on the motherboard, which allows the memory two DIMMs simultaneously, which increases for dual channel to work, the motherboard and the memory DIMMs must be identical to the DIMMs must be inserted into the motherboard to enable dual channel mode. Typically the in identifying where the DIMMs should be inserted. memory slots. So in order for dual channel DIMMs in the slots of the same color. In this slots. And there is also triple channel mode. Triple motherboards offer this feature. Triple channel to communicate with three DIMMs at the same a 64-bit architecture, so in single channel time. In dual channel mode that is doubled mode it's tripled to 192 bits at a time. So available on a few motherboards and only certain mode. So here is an example of a triple channel are six memory slots with two different colors. on this motherboard, you must put the DIMMs utilize triple channel mode. And those DIMMs Now the term single-sided or double-sided location of the memory chips that are on the to the groups of memory chips that a memory RAM has two groups of memory chips. Now this located on both sides of the memory module. be on just one side. But that's not what double-sided sees these two groups of memory chips separately time. Now single-sided RAM has one group of either on one side or on both sides of the point is that because it's single-sided RAM, group. And because it's one-sided or one group, group which makes single-sided RAM faster Some RAM modules have ECC which stands for is that it detects if the data was correctly correction if it needs to. You can tell if of memory chips on the module. In a standard But in an ECC module it will have nine memory and this is because of the advance in technology non-ECC RAM more stable, Typically today ECC need to be up and running at all times and to guard against any memory errors. And there is also buffered and unbuffered registered RAM is made to add stability to the RAM and the memory controller. It stores the CPU. And this is what adds stability and a lot of memory modules installed. So it's on your memory controller that's produced example, in servers. The kind of RAM that is used in smaller devices for a small outline dual inline memory module. DIMMs, and like DIMMs that are used in desktops, as DDR, DDR2, and DDR3. So if you plan on sure you install the correct type because are not compatible with each other. The processor socket is the place on the motherboard plastic or metal holder with multiple holes processor. As these holes and pins make contact, between the motherboard and the CPU. Modern CPU sockets are called ZIFs which stands that the CPU is installed in the socket with There are different types of CPU socket designs of these packages is the PGA or pin grid array. design with holes and a lock down lever. The latest in socket design packages is called LGA socket is a metal casing with a door that lever. Unlike previous socket versions which with the bottom of the processor. LGA processors rest on the LGA socket pins. For the CompTIA A+ exam you're going to need socket types and these socket types are categorized there's AMD. So starting with the Intel sockets we're going to talk about is the LGA 775 socket released in 2004 and it has 775 pins as its to the socket 478 and it was designed for And next is the LGA 1366, and as its name known as socket B. It was released back in 1366 uses the Intel Core i7 and Xeon processors. The LGA 1156 which is also known as socket has 1156 pins and this was the first socket And next is the LGA 1155 and this is known the LGA 1156 and this has 1155 pins which that are designed for the 1155 and 1156 are sockets are different. It was released in CPUs that use the Sandy Bridge and Ivy Bridge And next is the LGA 1150 and this is also and was released in 2013. The LGA 1150 supports and has succeeded the LGA 1155. And the last of the Intel sockets is the LGA LGA 2011 has two 2011 pins and was released this socket was designed for high performance Ivy Bridge processors. So the next group of sockets are the AMD sockets socket is the AM3. Socket AM3 was released The AM3 has 941 pins. Next is socket AM3+ which is a successor and and was released in 2011. The AM3+ does retain the AM3+ will work in AM3 sockets. The next socket is FM1 and this was released designed for the AMD APU processors. APU stands were designed to act as a CPU and a graphics And next is FM2 and this has 94 pins and was and this was released in 2014 and this has the FM2 socket. The central processing unit or CPU is the brain of the computer where all the data processing instructions and logical calculations. The It s a square chip that is inserted into the a CPU socket. And directly on top of a CPU to keep the CPU from overheating. The speed of the CPU is measured in megahertz. per second. 500 MHz equals 500 million cycles per second, and so on. Today's high end processors Inside the processor is the core. The core take place. A processor that has a single But today's high end processors have more processors and they can process more instructions multicore the ability to multitask and have of a multicore processor are dual core processors quad core processor which has four cores. Two of the biggest manufacturers of processors manufacturer of processors was founded in market for a number of years until the rise Some of the Intel processors are known as Advanced Micro Devices or AMD is the second also founded in the late 60s but it didn't CPU market until the mid 1990s. Some of the Duron, and the Sempron processors. Their higher-end and Phenom. CPUs can come in 32 or 64 bit versions. The the way that it handles memory. The bit size A 32-bit CPU can reference 2 to the 32nd power a 64-bit CPU can reference 2 to the 64th power which is 4 billion times more memory than it's virtually unlimited because we will never So going back to what we stated before, in to be loaded into RAM first. So the data is drive it is loaded into RAM and once it's data or run the program. Now in a 32-bit system, support is 4 GB, it may not be enough to hold computer run as fast as possible. And when be kept on the hard drive to compensate for RAM to the CPU, it has to do extra work by this happens it slows down the computer. But more memory than 4 GB which means that more on a slower hard drive. And because they can a slower hard drive, the computer is able is why a 64-bit system is faster than a 32-bit There's also what's called memory cache. The which is very fast memory when compared to The memory cache is the processor's internal waiting to be used by the processor. So basically that it thinks the CPU is going to access to access certain data, it always checks the it needs is there, and if it's not then the memory or RAM to find the data it needs. So if a CPU can access what it needs on the faster will perform. The memory cache comes in different levels. is also called primary cache. Level one cache runs as the same speed as the processor, so on the computer. And there is also level two And level two cache is used to catch recent not caught by the level one cache. So in a needs on the level one cache, it then searches two doesn't have it, then it has to go back Level two cache is generally located on a CPUs it would also be located on the processor. but it's not as fast as level one cache. One of the main and one of the most important board is the chipset. Older motherboards were all over the motherboard. There were chips memory controllers, keyboard controllers, chips controlling different functions on the computer engineers decided to reduce the number location. So instead of having these different different functions, they reduce the number to only a few chips or what's now called a is a smaller set of chips that has replaced job is to control data flow between the CPU, all of the different parts of the computer The chipset basically consists of two chips. is called the south bridge. The north bridge the motherboard, providing you're looking It s located near the CPU and is directly to the memory and the AGP and PCI Express with the memory, and the AGP or PCI Express first. So the north bridge acts like a communication and memory. The other chip is called the south bridge. or southern portion of the motherboard near to the PCI bus slots, SATA, and IDE connectors, for the lower portion of the motherboard, the upper portion. There is no direct connection motherboard. So if the PCI, USB, IDE, or SATA the information has to go through the south and then to the CPU. The north bridge is faster than the south AGP, and memory are the most used and most they need to operate at the highest speeds with a PCI bus, SATA, and IDE connectors, fast as the other components. So basically to the north bridge and the slower components the north and south bridge make these connections pathways called a bus. And a bus is simply to travel between components on the motherboard. buses that vary in speed and bandwidth. So at 66 Mhz, then that means that that particular second. The higher the bus speed, the faster the performance of the computer. A motherboard's the front side bus. The front side bus is bridge chipset. All motherboards are equipped with input output the bottom rear of the motherboard. These because these slots are used to expand the the motherboard doesn't already have a built-in inserting one into one of these bus slots, sound. Or let's say the motherboard doesn't well then you can add a USB expansion card A modern bus type today is called PCI which PCI has been around since 1993 and was a standard Express came out which we'll talk about shortly. slots with a data path of 32 or 64 bits, with They are also about half the physical size As computers got faster, a lot of people were applications such as gaming. And as computers slot was lagging behind in delivering computer was developed. AGP stands for accelerated in accelerating 3D computer graphics. One PCI is because AGP has its own dedicated pathway is only used for a video card and is usually PCI Express is the latest version of bus slots. up to 4 GB per second. And unlike standard Express transfers data in serial. Transferring because serial data is transferred in packets. PCI bus slots and AGP, and it is not backward is very different. There are four different slot sizes in PCI 16. PCI- E by 1 has one lane for data. A lane are for receiving. PCI-E by4 has four lanes. slot is PCI- 16 has succeeded the AGP slot for the video And there is also the PCI-X slot where the an extension of the old standard PCI slot PCI slot. The PCI-X is a 64-bit bus and it PCI slot. It was mainly designed to work with And there is also the mini PCI slot and this one quarter the length of a standard PCI slot. PCI bus but it's a lot smaller. Now you can slot but you would have to use a mini PCI 33 Mhz bus. Typically located at the bottom right hand called the front panel connector and this to items that are in the front bezel of the power button connector and this turns the LED which indicates when the computer is on hard drive LED which indicates when there the reset switch which restarts the computer speaker connector which is used to plug in oftentimes the front panel connector will to help identify where the wires connect to a lot easier. Most computers today will have certain common for easier access. For example, you may find some audio ports; one for headphones or speakers on the front panel you will see the power the computer. And you will also see a reset And also you will see a drive activity light, in the computer, in other words, when the BIOS stands for basic input output system. motherboard that initializes the computer's Some of these peripherals include the keyboard, on. And after it initializes the peripherals optical drive or a hard drive to boot software The BIOS software is stored on the BIOS chip which means that the software and settings off. On modern computers the BIOS is stored capable of being updated using a special program. American Megatrends and Phoenix Technologies. After a computer is turned off and if the to maintain certain settings such as the date settings are stored on the motherboard in for complementary metallic oxide semiconductor these settings it needs a battery. This battery is a small button cell battery which can be is usually located on the bottom right hand same type that is typically used in wrist When you turn on a computer, the computer POST that is run by the BIOS. It tests the are met and the hardware is working correctly the BIOS searches for something to boot from loaded on the hard drive. But the computer system, it can also boot from other things USB flash drive, just as long as those things how the BIOS determines which device to boot settings. And in the CMOS settings you can So for example, if the CD or DVD drive is would check that first and look for software it will move on to the second device on the down the list until it finds something to But you can change the boot priority in CMOS the change, you just save the settings, and settings will take effect. Now there are certain things you can do while the date and time. The date and time should reference it. Other things you can do in a For example if your motherboard has a built-in these devices in the BIOS to save resources want to disable these if your motherboard the motherboard that already give you these The BIOS also allows you to modify the CPU speed, to make the computer run faster, which or by reducing the clock speed, which will the temperature of the CPU. Now this could overheating issues. And speaking of temperature, the BIOS can BIOS has a built-in safety mechanism that it will automatically shut down the computer. it'll also shut down the computer to prevent temperature thresholds can be modified in or decreasing the temperature threshold. And of the computer. And you can also enable or disable virtualization that enables your computer to run multiple The operating systems are not actual, but you from installing or running virtualization is disabled in the BIOS. One way to protect your computer from unauthorized BIOS. Using a BIOS password not only prevents the system from booting. A user cannot boot without the BIOS password. When you turn on a computer, the computer POST. It tests the computer to make sure all is working correctly before starting the operating internal speaker will make a short single passed the test and is booting up normally. multiple beeps then that means that the computer and the computer needs further troubleshooting there are no beeps or multiple beeps, the you pinpoint the problem. For example if the could indicate a keyboard error. Or if the then that could indicate a problem with a on a computer's motherboard you can always to find a list of beep codes and what they Some BIOS systems have an intrusion detection case has been opened and alerts the user. And some computers, especially laptops can that can locate your computer if it has been A newer type of BIOS is called UEFI. UEFI Now most if not all new motherboards are shipped advantages over the old BIOS. And the first that it has a user-friendly graphical user even animations, whereas the old BIOS has Windows blue screen of death. UEFI can also use a mouse while you're in the UEFI interface was not even available and you had to use feature called secure boot. And secure boot loading and it helps to stop malicious software Storage is a very important part of fault a company's data, such as a disk failure that a serious impact on how the company performs. disk does fail, that no data loss would occur. is RAID. RAID stands for redundant array of is copied on multiple disks. So that in the lost. Now there are four common types of RAID. 10. Now RAID 0 is not fault tolerant. In fact not only does it not provide fault tolerance, loss. Because in a RAID 0, the data is not across two separate disks. So if just one be lost. So the only reason why you would you have two disk controllers working instead Now RAID 1 is fault tolerant. In a RAID 1 disk. So disk 2 would have the exact same of a single disk failure then no data loss have a duplicate copy. Next we'll talk about RAID 5. In order to disks. RAID 5 is probably the most common can store a large amount of data. So in a it's striped or spread across multiple disks. very important piece of information that is and this information is called parity, and event of a disk failure. But there is a downside an entire disk is used to store parity, it can be stored in this array. So for example, each, that totals 4 terabytes. But in a RAID for data storage would be 3 terabytes because used to store parity. Now we have to talk about RAID 10. And RAID RAID 1 and RAID 0 together. And you need to 10 setup, a set of two disks are mirrored two disks are striped using RAID 0. So a RAID of RAID 1 and the speed of RAID 0. But the use 50% of the capacity for your storage. setup, you can only use two of them for actual This is the RJ-11 connector, and RJ stands connector used mainly to connect telephone is used to connect computers to local area RJ-11 locks itself and to place by a single it's a little bit smaller. Now the RJ-45 is by far the most common network to connect computers to local area networks. place by a single locking tab, and it also The BNC connector is a common type of RF connector for Bayonet Neill Concelman, and it is used as well as audio. Now this connector is called the F-type. Now on coaxial cables. These are primarily used The F-type hand tightens by an attached nut. This is the IEEE 1394 connector, and this by its D shape. This type of connection is and is commonly associated with attaching and printers rather than being used as network types of video and multimedia devices. This is a USB connector. The USB is very common make wireless network cards that plug into types, type A and type B. A newer type of interface for attaching external is a high-speed technology interface that of PCI Express and the display port. Thunderbolt Apple products and now has become available of Thunderbolt. Versions 1 and 2 use the same 3 uses a USB type-c connector. Another type of connector is called RCA. The back in the 1940s. And these were primarily of times you may see RCA connectors in groups the white and red are used for audio, such would be used for video. The next fiber optic connector is called the bayonet type of lock, and is commonly used And our next connector is called the LC or optic connector. It uses a jack similar to used between floors in a building. And our last fiber optic connector is called a push-pull connector similar to audio and is also commonly used between floors in a The term plenum refers to a space in a building this is usually between the drop ceiling and have plenum spaces, have air ducts encapsulating have plenum spaces where there is adequate buildings that don't have plenum spaces. And spaces must meet certain requirements. First, they must not produce any toxic fumes if they Sometimes there might be cases in your home in a certain part of the building, to be able And for whatever reason, network cabling or the building. Maybe because of difficulties or whatever. So another 1901 standard gave electrical system of the building. Ethernet networking over power. So for example let's able to access the internet. But for some any Wi-Fi signal to reach that computer. So power. So we're going to need a couple of adapters plug directly into a power outlet an RJ-45 connector. So one of them plugs into here, and then you would connect an ethernet and the other end into the powerline adapter's into the power outlet next to the modem or cable from the modem or router to the powerline building's electrical wiring to deliver networking the other computer can access the internet. The terms 568A and 568B, refer to a set of is also known as the Telecommunications Industry on how twisted pair cables should be wired follow a certain order so that the network wired in this order: White/green, then green, and brown. And the 568B standard is wired orange, white/green, blue, white/blue, green, in the functionality as to which standard Whether you choose to use the A or B wiring using the same standard, then this is known is wired on both ends using the 568A standard. A straight cable allows signals to pass straight common type of cable and it is used to connect Another type of cable is called a crossover, the cable are wired using the two different the A standard, and the other end is wired Crossover cables are used to connect two similar a crossover cable to connect two computers or switch. Crossover cables are also used A rollover cable is created when both ends These are used to connect a computer or a loopback table is for testing purposes. It to a network. And to make a loop-back cable, 6. Now a firewall can be either software or hardware. unauthorized access from entering a private comes in from the internet. It blocks unwanted it filters the incoming network data packets allowed to enter the network. In today s high-tech to keep their networks safe. Firewalls come in different types. And one this is a software firewall, this is the kind and it protects that computer only and nothing operating systems come pre-packaged with a You can turn the firewall on or off if you the firewall based on the application name always purchase a third party firewall and Today there are five different categories need to know for the exam. The difference handle without having any crosstalk. The numbers of the twists that are applied to the wires. per second. Category 5 has a maximum speed enhanced version of category 5, and it has 6 also has a maximum speed of 1,000 Mbits cable when compared to category 5e and it second but only for a cable length of less has a max speed of 10,000 Mbits per second. length of 100 meters. And last there s category Mbits per second. Now category 7 is basically to the wires for better protection against Unshielded twisted pair is by far the most consists of 4 pairs of unshielded wires twisted prevent electromagnetic interference or crosstalk. area networks. Now shielded twisted pair is very similar has a foil shield that covers the wires. This electromagnetic interference leaking into This is a coaxial cable. This is used today computer with broadband internet connection. such as a bus network. Now there are two common types of coaxial made for long distances and is commonly used And the second type is RG-59, and this is for high definition and high quality video. Now we're getting into fiber optic cables, cable and a light source. Fiber optic cable a result it is very fast and it can span for Now there were two different modes in fiber Single-mode fiber is a fiber optic cable that as you can see here. So when this type of it can span for great distances. Now this multimode and single-mode, is that in multimode, off the walls of the cable. And unlike single-mode Now those of you who have broadband cable this is your typical DOCSIS cable modem. DOCSIS specifications. The DOCSIS 3.1 specification 1 gigabit upstream. The DOCSIS modem handles internet, video, and voice. A hub is a device that has multiple ports devices. A hub is considered not to be intelligent any intelligence as to where data is supposed one of the ports, it is copied to all other that data packet. There are also two different is a passive hub does not require power, but Now a switch is very similar to a hub. It's accepts ethernet connections from network A switch can actually learn the physical addresses it stores these addresses in a table. So when only to the intended destination port. That's So as a result, switches are far more preferred traffic on the network. Bridges are used to divide a network into we have a network and this network is segmented all the broadcast traffic from two segments And this causes unnecessary traffic. So that a bridge to this network, it will reduce any by filtering the data based on their MAC address. it meets the required MAC address of the destination. MAC addresses of the NICs that are connected crossing over if it fails to meet this requirement. Now a router does exactly what its name implies. data from one network to another based on from the router, the router inspects the packet its own network or if it's meant for another data packet is meant for its own network, its own network, it sends it off to another for a network. we have a private network with its router. indicated by the red-colored screens on the different data packets, indicated by their the red network s router from the internet. data packets, because they are the only ones of the other data packets, the yellows, blues, because they were not intended for this network. of how a router works, but I think you'll Networking devices need electrical power to electrical port for a power plug. But some port. It s not that they don't need electrical and data from the same cable, which is through known as POE, which stands for power over A network interface card or NIC, is used to a circuit board with a network adapter that is to convert incoming serial data into parallel it. A NIC provides a constant dedicated connection identifier, called a MAC address. A wireless access point is basically a wireless to a wired network and relays data between for communication purposes. In this illustration a network so that the wireless laptop can A dial-up modem is a device that allows a lines. The data coming in from the telephone is all digital. So when the analog data comes is to convert it into a digital form so the what a modem does, it converts analog data most modems today is 56 kbps. A patch panel is a panel that has multiple outgoing patch cables in a local area network. of arranging or rearranging circuits if necessary. has several UTP patch cables attached. The IEEE is an international organization to electricity. And they are responsible for 802 project. And one of these standards is technology is becoming more and more popular. There are the A, B, G, N, and AC standards. and release year for each one. Starting with which came out in 1999. And the latest standard in 2014. which is 802.11a which came out in 1999 and which was released in 2014. Infrared is a technology that was developed Association. The term infrared actually means data is transmitted in rays of light, rather now utilize this technology to transmit and drawbacks of infrared, is that it requires in between the two infrared devices, the communication work in direct sunlight. If this happens the will be blocked. Bluetooth is a short-range radio that provides between devices such as laptops, cell phones, and is capable of transmitting both voice has a transfer speed of 24 Mbits per second meters. An IP address is a numeric address. It's an Every device has to have an IP address for of two parts, the first part is the network There are also two types of IP addresses. called IP version 4. And the second type is IP version 4 is the current version of IP as four numbers separated by periods. Each is called an octet. The number range in each produce over 4 billion unique addresses. When the internet was first developed, programmers thought that IPv4, which produced over four were wrong, IPv6 is the next generation of IPv4 and IPv6 is the length of the address. whereas IPv6 is a 128 bit hexadecimal address. in the address. So with this type of address, IP addresses. That's the number 340 with 36 IPv6 is more than enough for the foreseeable As stated previously, an IP address has two and the remaining is designated for the host. either the network or the host, is where the that resembles an IP address. It reveals how network by masking the network portion of first two octets are 255. So if we were to first two octets would be all 1s, because it will equal 255. Now let's go ahead and the way to tell which portion of this IP address mask binary digit is 1, it will indicate the network. So we'll cross out all the digits in the subnet mask, and when you do this it the network portion, and the remaining is Here is a chart of the default subnet masks the change of the locations of the network memorize these default subnet mask classes. IP addresses are assigned to different organizations five classes. But for the exam you only need B, and class C, and you can tell by the number belongs to. So a Class A IP range is from on 126 networks. This class is mainly given amount of IP addresses it can give out. And a Class B IP range is from 128 - 191, networks. This class is given to medium-sized And a Class C IP range is from 192 - 223. networks. And this class is given to small memorize the default subnet masks for each Now if you noticed we skipped over the 127 be used for a network, because the number functions. Public IP addresses are publicly registered if you have a public IP address, you have are different. A private IP is not publicly the internet with a private IP. So for example need 10 public IP addresses so your employees your ISP and ask them for these additional and unnecessary. So that's where private IP you can create these ten private IP addresses from your ISP. These ten private IPs would so your employees can have access to the internet. prevent having a shortage of public IP addresses. addressing to prevent a shortage of public Private IP addresses are typically used on businesses. And these private IP ranges have 3 classes. with the number 172. And class C starts with Every computer on a network has to have an there are two ways that a computer can be by using a dynamic IP, or a static IP. A dynamic automatically from a DHCP server. DHCP stands DHCP server automatically assigns a computer IP address, it can also assign a subnet mask, Here we have the TCP/IP properties window machine. And as you can see this computer So when you choose this option and press OK, IP address. Then the DHCP server will assign to the computer. Dynamic IP addressing is a network a lot easier. You can also assign a computer with an IP IP. A static IP is where a user manually assigns no need for a DHCP server. And this kind of because unlike dynamic addressing, where the IP only changes if a user decides to. When a computer is set to automatically obtain a DHCP server. But what happens if this computer happens if a DHCP server goes down or if the happens then the computers that are running itself will assign its own IP address. This And this type of self-assigned addressing private IP address assignment. Computers running can still be able to communicate with other self-assigned IP addresses. If a DHCP server its IP address to one that's obtained from Problems can also happen in DHCP. For example, If this were to happen, then certain computers be able to renew their IP lease because there computers won't be able to access the network. are added. They will not be able to access to remember that this is only the case if IP address automatically. So this would have IP. So in another scenario, if another DHCP server to remember that if you're going to add another configured properly. For example, you're going do not give out the same IP address to a computer if the second DHCP server assigns an IP address will happen. So to avoid this you must configure Transmission control protocol is one of the this is a connection oriented protocol, which a session between two computers that are communicating. The first step is that a computer will send computer will send back an acknowledgement the message. And finally the sender computer to the receiver. And once this has taken place, to remember about TCP, is that it guarantees goes astray and doesn't arrive, then TCP will Now UDP is very similar to TCP. UDP is also difference is that your UDP is connectionless. and does not guarantee data delivery. So when care if the data is received at the other and forget protocol, because it sends data it, as this demonstration will show. Another point to remember, is that because guaranteeing data delivery, UDP is faster DNS stands for domain name system. Now this the world of networking, computers don't go So if you type in a web address in your web number, because all computers know are numbers. in your web browser, the DNS server will search address for that domain name, and when it to the IP address of a yahoo web server. so you want to find a phone number, you don't name first, then it will give you the number. This is called Network Address Translation used in routers, and this is used to translate addresses. So for example, here we have a IP addresses internally. Over here we have this router is running the NAT service. If over the internet, it needs to translate its IP address. And this goes both ways. If a with a computer on this private network, then to the private IP address for that computer. FTP stands for file transfer protocol, and by web users to upload and download files if a user wanted to make their files available have to do is simply upload their files to them. Now there are a few ways to transfer files browser or you can use special FTP software. connection oriented protocol that uses TCP TFTP stands for the trivial file transfer protocol. It is not used to transfer files used for transferring files within the same during the transfer. And unlike FTP that uses a connectionless protocol that uses UDP as Now Secure FTP is just like FTP, except that secure FTP is actually encrypted using secure data like passwords are sent in clear text. SMTP stands for simple mail transfer protocol. protocol that is used to send email. A good acronym SMTP, and translating that to sending and as you know by now, it is connection oriented. destination, you'll get that familiar mail you that the email you sent failed. Where SMTP is used for sending email, POP3 email. Whenever an email arrives at your mail protocol and download it to your computer. all it does is grab the email from the mail It does not sync any email or folders from does, which we ll talk about next, it strictly email application using POP3 retrieves the from the mail server, unless you specify in mail server. POP3 is commonly used with email IMAP4 is another protocol that is used for because they are both used for retrieving features. With IMAP4 you can access and manage So if you want to read your email and keep you to do just that. And unlike POP3, IMAP4 the mail server with your computer. And IMAP4 HTTP stands for hypertext transfer protocol. protocol in the world today. HTTP is the protocol internet. So when you type in a web address, HTTP is added at the beginning of the URL, HTTP to retrieve this web page. In standard HTTP, all information is sent okay if you were just browsing regular web you had to enter sensitive data, such as passwords be a problem as far as security. HTTPS stands this is HTTP with a security feature. HTTPS by HTTP. So for example, if you wanted to go to your would notice that an S will be added to the you are now using HTTPS and have entered a to be passed, and that data needs to be protected. be email servers or e-commerce websites. Telnet is a terminal emulation program that tool that runs on your computer and it will it only sends commands and not graphics, it's secure. All commands are sent in clear text. devices within a local network and not on Now SSH or secure shell is a better alternative from being attacked or stolen as it's being if you were sending something sensitive, like be listening and steal the data. And that acts like a secure tunnel that forms around threats. And this is called simple network management network management. It's basically used for such as routers, printers, and servers. When data is sent over the internet to your and your computer accepts this data using 2 protocols, TCP and UDP. Now a port is a logical connection that is And these ports have a unique number that to 65535, but for the exam you only need to the ports that you need to know for the exam. used every single day, such as port 80, which Another one is port 443, which is used for a login and password, and another common one from an email application such as Microsoft DSL stands for digital subscriber line. And by homes and businesses to access broadband is that they can carry both voice and data uses common telephone lines to carry its data. faster than your regular dial-up modems. There are a few different forms of DSL, and digital subscriber line, and this is called faster than the upload speed. This type of cheapest form of DSL. SDSL stands for symmetric digital subscriber and upload speeds are the same. This type And VDSL stands for very high bit DSL, and speeds of over 50 Mbits per second over a it's only made for short distances. For long Another popular technology that is used to is by far becoming the technology of choice a cable modem with an attached coaxial cable, provider. Like DSL, cable is very fast, with provided by the same provider that provides POTS/PSTN stands for plain old telephone service these are just your plain old telephone lines. people who use the internet because of their internet such as broadband, you will never which is the speed of a standard dial-up modem. and that is that they are basically everywhere ISDN stands for integrated services digital for digital transmission over ordinary telephone install ISDN modems. This was a significant because a standard modem sends data at a maximum Kbps. But ISDN never really caught on, because Satellite communication is pretty expensive are provided, like phones, cable, or DSL. of these other options, satellite is rarely throughout the years, with speeds maxing out of that in upload speeds. Another method of connecting to the internet are portable devices that use cellular networks So if there are wireless devices within 30 it and then they will have access to the internet. either be a free-standing device like you into a smartphone. And mobile hotspots are as Verizon, AT&amp;T, T-Mobile, and Sprint. The word PAN stands for personal area network. on a personal level. It's a small network like mobile phones, PDAs, and laptops to each used for transferring small files, such as so on. Now a LAN stands for local area network. And such as computers, servers, and printers that In other words, in close proximity to each LAN where two or more computers are connected A MAN stands for metropolitan area network. s a network that spans over several buildings using a high speed connection such as fiber And finally there s the wide area network It s a network that spans over a large geographical the entire globe. A good example of a wide If you re already a network administrator, used is the wire crimper. And this tool is It crimps adapters such as the RJ-45 to twisted RJ-45 the crimper, give it a squeeze, and the cable A punch down tool is a tool that resembles connect or punch wires to a punch-down block. Another network tool is a media tester. So wire to make sure it's wired correctly. So you connect both ends of the cable into the tester, you. The plastic shielding around a network cable And this is done by using a cable stripper. then the outer plastic shielding is removed. A multimeter is a device that is used to test is used for many different trades. It can continuity, just to name a versions. And this tool is called a tone generator. Now this tool is used for locating cables if you suspect that you have a bad cable that that group was stretched over a long distance, end of the cable from the other. So you just connect the tool at one end, and cable, where the other part of the tool would [Music] cable next we're going to talk about Soho routers router and these are your common inexpensive these are fairly easy to set up but if you not have access to the Next we're going to talk about SOHO routers router. And these are your common inexpensive These are fairly easy to set up but if you not have access to the network. To set up and configure your SOHO router you web page. So you would just open up a web type in the router's IP address. So for example, And once you type that in, you press enter So here's an example of the configuration where you would set up the router with custom network. So for example, like most SOHO routers And as you recall, a DHCP server automatically your network because all computers need an default the DHCP server is enabled. But if by pressing this button here and then just Also in a router's web page there are the the wireless settings for your network. For for service set identifier which is basically is shared among all wireless devices in your can call it whatever you want and as you can as an example, when a wireless laptop scans of this router, the laptop will see the router it has the proper credentials it can join Also in here you can set the channel for your avoid interference with other wireless networks issues to your wireless router, there might network that's operating on the same channel to a different channel and see if it solves And if you click on the wireless security your wireless network. So here you can choose wide open or you can choose to secure your And as you can see this router supports the and WPA2. Wired equivalent privacy is one of the security and as its name implies, it's meant to supply it did for wired networks. But this turned found out that the 40 bit encryption key the hackable. So a better security protocol was WPA is another wireless security protocol of WEP. WPA is far better than WEP in two method using TKIP which stands for temporal changes keys as it's being used. This ensures which verifies authorized network users. Building on the security of WPA, WPA2 was than WPA. And it does this by requiring the While WPA uses temporal key integrity protocol limitations, WPA2 uses CCMP for encryption. enhanced data cryptographic encapsulation on all certified Wi-Fi hardware. And our last wireless security protocol is and this security protocol was designed for to make it as easy as possible for them to So here's an example of a WPS configuration are three different WPS methods that you can could use method 1 if your client has a Wi-Fi that button then within 2 minutes you would you can just press the physical WPS button You can also use method 2 if your client has number in here and press register. Or you router's pin number and you would just enter be connected. So as stated before WPS is the a lot of manufacturers are building their as possible for their customers to join their Another wireless security is the MAC filter. A MAC address is a hexadecimal number that And with a MAC filter you can either prevent address. So in this example, once we enable prevent devices that are listed below from these devices listed here are now blocked we can choose the permit option and this will to the network. There is also what's called the DMZ. And DMZ allows a designated computer on your network does this by the router forwarding all ports So while these computers here on our internal DMZ computer is outside the firewall and is testing purposes. So if you just set up a the internet and if you're having a problem so that it can be accessed from the internet, and put the computer in the DMZ temporarily can pinpoint a problem you're having, such to note that the DMZ computer must be assigned from a DHCP server. Another option on a configuration page is customize port services for certain applications. to your network from the internet, the router computer. So for example, let's say a friend in your home network using RDP or remote desktop lesson that RDP services uses port 3389. So their RDP service on their computer, they and once that request hits your router, your network to forward that request to so your that's where port forwarding comes in. Here you have to forward the RDP port to the correct which is 3389 and then you have to point it want your friend to access which is 192.168.2.3. to forward that request and the connection The ping command is the most widely used of used to test issues such as network connectivity ahead and ping a host IP address. So at a then the IP address and then press enter. to the destination IP address we chose. Then back to us as a reply and these replies are will inform you about what's happening with if we received a reply then that means that us and the destination. But if we did not no reply from the host and it could mean that But if we ping the host and we got a message mean that the host is down or that it's blocking we got a message that says destination host a router and it means that a route to the The ping command can also be used to test we use the ping command with an IP address. For example, we could type ping, space, then the domain name and if we got the same successful would indicate that the name resolution by that the domain name ping failed. Then the So if by typing the IP address, and if the know that we are having a problem with DNS. The ping command can also be combined with are used to alter the parameters of the ping switches by typing ping, space, forward slash, Our next utility is called tracert which stands the exact path the data packet is taking on let's go ahead and trace the route from our prompt we would type tracert, space, and then packet will find its way to the destination it will report back information about that it took between each hop. So the tracert utility where a problem lies on a network if a data So for example, if we try to ping a destination tracert utility to find out where the data go ahead and traceroute this IP again, and So let's type in tracert then the IP address. tell us at which area the problem lies. And utility has isolated that the problem is somewhere And this is the Nbtstat utility. And this So at a command prompt just type in nbtstat is probably the least common utility that Our next utility is called netstat. Now this current network connections to your computer. that our computer is currently communicating And we can verify this by using the netstat and in this case we're going to use a minus display we can see the two HTTP servers and sure what connections your computer currently out. And in addition to connections it also for a connection. The ipconfig utility is very common. This network configuration for our computer. And So for example, if we open up a command prompt slash ALL switch, then this will display the such as our computer name, MAC address, IP DNS servers and so on. And by using this information problems. For example, if we had a problem that DHCP is enabled which means that this server. And it also tells us the IP address IP address for the DNS server. So if we're with domain names then there might be a problem Using the ipconfig utility by itself displays But using this utility when combined with slightly. So for example, when we use ipconfig just used in our previous slide, it displays When we use ipconfig/renew this releases and the DHCP server. And ipconfig/release releases To see a complete list of all the switches utility, just type in the name of the utility, mark and that'll show you all the switches And similar to the ipconfig utility that's utility. And the ifconfig utility is a command And it displays configuration information IP address, subnet mask, how many packets so on. And like ipconfig it can also be combined And our last utility is called nslookup. This this utility is used to look up DNS information. type in nslookup along with a domain name the DNS information for the Yahoo domain. And the dig command is a Unix version of nslookup,