In 2016, Simon Barquera started receiving It was happening to his colleagues as well. Texts saying their wives were cheating on them. Their daughters were in accidents. Others simply contained links to funeral services. Their phones were infected with spyware. Barquera and his colleagues weren't They weren't digging up dirt on some oligarch. They were advocating for a national tax on soda The spyware was tied to the Mexican government. But years later, we don't have any more definitive details. What we do know is this: The sugar and soda like this one, and had coordinated And this is just one story strong-arming and deceit, For over 50 years, the sugar and soda industries and distorted science to keep the public And the target of their latest operation? It's schools. To fully appreciate the enormous and will continue to go to hold onto their vast empire, we need to start in the 1960s with They're letters between executives, This is Laura Schmidt, a health policy Schmidt has a pretty unique insight because she runs an archive corporate communications for Back in the 1950s and '60s, people were already Scientists such as John Yudkin published books like &lt;i&gt; Pure, White and Deadly&lt;/i&gt; at a time when and concerned with one of the leading So the Sugar Association got wind "Oh my gosh, that might cut into our profit margins." And so they started to think about, can we point the finger at for heart disease? And so the Sugar Association's research wing And the Sugar Research Foundation, "Hey, guys, why don't we pay you to publish in the most prestigious outlet-- the New England Journal of Medicine, that points to all of the reasons that saturated fat We used about 200 or 300 documents from the archive to piece together the story of how this all went down. Ultimately, we ran the numbers and these guys got paid about $49,000 to do this literature review, which wound up being published in And if you grew up sometime in the '80s or '90s, there's a good chance papers I grew up eating margarine, which tastes terrible compared to butter, because you don't, you know, &quot;you don't want cholesterol, that'll cause heart attacks.&quot; And so many of us wound up really eating more sugar and less saturated fat And an important point of clarification: It's not that every study linking it's that the sugar industry wanted to emphasize It's to say, let's focus on this other thing Why cut back on your soda habit If this seems like a horrific one-time abuse of science, well, the sugar industry never really stopped. A few years later, the same trade the dental profession on how to prevent The original cache of documents on the sugar And she was at a conference for a dental the dental community wasn't talking about sugar. And it's like the most obvious thing, And so why are dentists not And the more she got into it and the more she realized that it was because the sugar industry had a And so they sort of accept from And then they're thinking about, while preventing cavities? And so they've looked into all sorts of crazy stuff. We know from the documents they were trying to find a vaccine It's not just the Sugar Association. Lobby groups for the soda industry, for corn farmers they've all been using their power Coca-Cola isn't just selling Coke everywhere in the world. It's lobbying governments everywhere in the world. You wanted me to print you out some documents. I have a wonderful one from Coca-Cola, which they-- it's called the policy radar screen. And it's basically a document was using to show all the public policies And in the outer corner of the graph, and--on the one side--and And on the far corner is soda taxes. That is the scariest thing to these guys. I mean, they were putting spyware on the cell phones the nutrition scientists who were because they were so freaked out But the sugar industry is not stopping It's not enough to ensure lifelong To these marketing executives, because we develop brand loyalty as children. That's why they wanted They wanted the marketing image to get in that kid's head, because when that kid turned 21 they would buy that product because Which brings us to sugar's Cafeterias have become a cash cow and These days, kids can pick up Pop-Tarts Even Domino's is serving America's schoolchildren. Through trade groups like the Sugar Association, are trying to fight rules that would And in the meantime, companies are tweaking while doing the bare minimum So Pop-Tarts, for instance, made with whole wheat the ones that you buy at the grocery store. You might have things like Nutri-Grain bars. The newest thing, of course, being Lunchables. This is Marcus Weaver-Hightower, professor So certainly, the industry is kind of looking for supposedly educating kids about the If you're curious how our school lunches got like this, there's one big culprit: budget cuts. Schools don't have enough money to pay for workers who can cook fresh food. And that leaves a gap that only big food companies can fill. Cue cheap, ultra-processed food They are in some ways being told through their placement in schools that these are okay foods to eat, right? Because we've got adults, of providing these foods and suggesting these foods. And of course, they're trying They want people to be consumers for life. So if you can start kids early they will be loyal customers for decades to come. they will be loyal customers for decades to come. Our societal dependance on If you hear people talk about That means your palate has just been to demand a higher level of sweetness In other words, we're hooked on a food to diabetes and heart disease. And in schools, we're making sure kids get hooked young. This all makes the recent actions of the USDA, This all makes the recent actions of the USDA, which runs the federal school lunch program, For the first time, they've limited to specific foods like breakfast as well as how many calories can come from Naturally, the Sugar Association is doing whatever it can to pick fights and leverage the Their latest warning is that the USDA's to nutrient-dense foods and increase In a similar battle over nutrition regulations the president of the Sugar Association said that show sweetened foods are I'm not sure what studies they're citing, they probably funded a good deal of them. Just in case, I followed up with Laura Schmidt Here's what she wrote: There is robust evidence that added such as in sweetened yogurt, promote cardio This is settled science. While the experts we spoke to said the they also acknowledge that The amount of money that we spend The bulk of what we spend on and the actual food that goes on the So we've got to find ways to increase the amount if they're going to be able healthy things that we are hoping that they do for kids. Some school districts are branching out by serving something they're able to implement through grants If we think about a relatively midsize the nutrition director there has Kids, you know, are eating fresh baked bread Kids, you know, are eating fresh baked bread you know, highly processed breads, vegetables that they've never encountered. In addition to the USDA's new guidelines, Marcus and other experts we spoke to free school meals can help cafeterias get the Let's not confuse ourselves about It's not just the low-income families. It's the companies that get the subsidy. And we have within our power to change that dynamic. It doesn't have to be large, It could be any part of the food system, any suppliers. And people really underestimate the power If we were to take those dollars and subsidize we might see a very different food industry evolve.