Ah yes, the wonderful world of FMV whatever you want to call them. In adventure gaming market. Most of them were withstood the test of time. Some because they're so outrageous that we can't help but The 7th Guest, Tex Murphy, and many more. One is Ripper, which is a murder mystery starring The wheels of justice may grind slowly, How is this game so often left Aside from the man, the myth, the "I gotta have more cowbell." Ripper also features John Rhys-Davies, Burgess Paul Giamatti. Are you kidding me? shines in this one. So let's dive into the Ripper is a first-person point-and-click FMV Released in 1996, it was also the first game And yes, I said first. Christopher Walken made the same year in Privateer 2: The Darkening. Streets of LA and True Crime: New York City in Walken really stretches his legs as the callous How's the coffee, Serge. Nice and hot! Guys got balls so big they But you, as the player, actually played by Scott Cohen, not [ __ ] But Jake is a pretty good character in his own gives Jake a smartass attitude that keeps him that he had with other characters in the story. And as much fun as it probably would have been I think interacting with him throughout Dis guy is un-[__]-believable. Jake Quinlan is a reporter for the Virtual Herald, year 2040. Jake works on the crime beat, and have a certain authoritative air about him, and threatening and blackmailing people to get what he played by Tahnee Welch, Jake is on the trail of The Ripper, a direct reference to Jack the Ripper, of the late 1800s. The Ripper's M.O. bears the Ripper's. The victim's bodies have been or at least, that's what the investigators Jake has been receiving messages from the killer, by police during the original Jack the Ripper occurred before the start of the game. And the Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Ok, so obviously believe this game came out 4 years before You're gonna want that cowbell. Did the SNL writers play this game or Anyway, the Ripper's latest victim is Renee of Jake as he arrives at the crime scene, where played by Richard Bright, who's quite Cold Karl Stasiak. We gotta Karl. Sorry, Quinlan. What'd you say? Yo sick medallion, bro. Is there any difference between Was identical, absolutely identical. It way he empties out the body cavity, the way So it's the same killer? Oh for sure. I mean, the organs are seen anything like this in my life. It's amazing. Any clues to how it's done? Don't ask me. You think I'd be used but I'm not. Whoever did this is We can also speak to Walken's Vincent Same M.O. as the others? You got it. Look around you [ __ ]. than the other two. Hell of a lot more splatter. Magnotta insists there's no connection between the no unidentified fingerprints in the or anyone suspicious in the area. Jake also and Renee was decked into the library node in shuffles Jake out of the crime scene, You shouldn't be touching I guess this case has me rattled. Jake scans the broken mug into his small, think they ever explain what WAC stands for either. WACs are ubiquitous throughout it acts as a database for clues, a notebook, demonstrated immediately as Jake gets Listen, Jake, something's come up here. Something about the Ripper? Might be nothing. I don't know. for me at the newsroom, and I'll Now talk to me what's going on? I have to go. Trust me. Who's in charge here? Well after last night I'd say that I am. Oh yeah, Jake and Catherine Back in the newsroom, Jake runs into his editor the delivery here is so laidback and cozy. What's going on, Ben? Did Catherine I don't know, Jake, I thought you Well so did I. Do you know what she's up to? She's your assistant. You tell me. Boy, for a news editor, Ben, Afterwards, Jake sits down to write. Catherine and I met on the job. Despite reminding it didn't take long for it to become Probably shouldn't publish that Jake gets another call on his Dear boss, have you seen my work this morning I couldn't find out who did the voice for the Catherine. Where you going? Qunilan! Quinlan! Usually it takes an hour to cross that propelled by kicking myself in the ass for letting I got there, but everything looked okay in her Catherine what is going on here? Catherine, what The Ripper. What? No no no, Catherine. Catherine no. [ __ ] Catherine survives her Ripper encounter, Hospital. Jake is now more invested in the Ripper As you investigate the Ripper case, you'll mostly both real world and virtual environments. As movie, speaking to characters is what will take up conversations, but for the most part, you'll are no options that lead to branching paths or Most of the evidence that you collect in your For example, the pieces of the broken mug Jake creating a simple puzzle where you need to Puzzles aren't inventory based like a lot of other on cryptology and numerology, as well as just the puzzles are real head scratchers, requiring detail just to figure out where to even begin the puzzles when you start the game, which will my playthrough. The puzzle solving overall was of some of them, and there's a good variety Beyond puzzles, Ripper also has, ugh, action person shooting galleries, and these are mostly features VR decks that people use to access the "wells." These cyberspace wells are basically game servers, personal domains, and its depiction of its virtual world, so prepare Some of these wells are protected ICE for short, a term coined by the great William the 1981 novel Neuromancer. The term has narrative since then. The ICE in Ripper take and other such enemies that will need to be shot segments. Unfortunately, adventure games rarely do adjust the difficulty of combat in the options, completely terrible, but I could have done without them. You start right back at the beginning anything. There are also a few ICE segments The gameplay in Ripper is standard for the genre, away. The real draw here are the story sequences. but because of the acting. Everyone looked I liked Scott Cohen as Jake. Christopher up in every scene. Paul Giamatti is perfect is so endearingly annoying as the But I got the most enjoyment and I'm not even talking about the ones who are the incidental characters who you only talk to The receptionist at the front desk played by Kira Arne, was amazing. Meta-Cog, hold on. &lt;ay I Beg your pardon? I said, &quot;Can I help you?&quot; What you think I said? Nothing. I--I'm looking for, uh, whoever's That would be Dr. Burton. Take the elevator to the go to ICU down the hall from there. Whatever Why is that? Little chilly. Then there's the forensic pathologist Where is this storage area? Oh, you just go through the door in the Mr Quinlan, please leave before you get me fired. David Thornton as Twig, this burnout hacker dude. What's with the shadow? Like him? He's a movement model for a c-space it'll give me true multitasking of course. The real thing will be in cyberspace. Excuse me. Sensors itch. But my favorite has to be the How about a beer? Yeah sure thing. Why don't you try this one. It's called Viper On the house. Look at that pour. I love it. It's a great cast. The acting isn't good, of the actors make the whole thing endlessly you'd find on the Sci-Fi channel circa the mid to You're watching Saturday The only thing that kind of sucks is moving are agonizingly long. And there's no way to a serial killer and worrying about his girlfriend taking in the scenery. You can almost imagine There's a lot of backtracking in Ripper lot. I guess the devs were really The music also isn't all that stays in the background. There's nothing As for the structure of the game, talking open up new locations, and you'll be able to By the end of the game you'll have a list of Ripper comes on 6 cd-roms to and moving between certain locations Now, unless you have an older computer you'll most likely be using a bundled file with which I always like to shout out for old abandoned The bundling is convenient, because whenever the hit "continue" to advance. I ran into several instances though. And this made my playthrough kind of map out different paths through the game Ripper packaged this way, like Zomb's Lair, but may just be my machine, so your mileage may vary guess this is what I get for not having a mid 90s Back to the story, Jake heads to info on the case. I know I've said this been introduced but Steven Randazzo I'll tell you, Lou, Magnotta wasn't It's lucky for you. No, I'm serious. There was this one strange thing. Strange? Yeah, I mean, if I didn't know any better I'd say that he intentionally It won't be the first time. Wait, he's done it before? Yeah, he hides it, he destroys This is common knowledge? Yeah, he's like King [ __ ] of the bounty it. I mean, what are you going to This bounty thing has been brought up before. In the criminals that they apprehend. I'm sure you like that could be. Also Lou's got that same Speaking of Stasiak, he's bugged out to Wyoming, Next up is a visit to the evidence locker, where Warren Spankowski played by John Ventigmilia. Oh Christ. What do you want? Some respect, Spankowski. You know you I shouldn't be talking to you at all, you goddamn leech. What do you want? Right. I need the evidence in the Powell case. No way, Quinlan. That could be my job. Spanky Spanky Spanky. I own you, and you're just prefer I go down to the DA's office and tell Jesus Christ, Quinlan, how long For the rest of your life. When I'm 80 years old, I'm going to come in here and tell you to shine so why don't you just go and get the evidence I'm going to make you kiss my ass. Would Goddamn, Quinlan. Anyway, turns out Renee Stein's WAC is missing took it home with him. Heading over to Magnotta's about another murder case, a man named There's an arrest report signed by Magnotta, and Magnotta's not keen on giving Hamilton Wofford, the victim in the was a cyber architect, and Jake believes there Jake also learns that Magnotta was the for treatment after her narrow escape from Magnotta about stealing Renee's WAC from Are you aware that there's evidence What the hell are you talking Well, Catherine's whack for example. Well then it's not missing is it? Worry about It's really hard not to just play especially the ones with Walken. You're lucky I'm in a good mode today, because like to be a human shish kebab rotating Anyway, Magnotta had Catherine sent to the Met-Cog for short, and there Jake meets He also meets a couple of lab technicians, one is concerned that Burton isn't doing everything You see, in the world of Ripper, people's through cyberspace. The doctors have of the Ripper from Catherine's psyche, they'll need to feed Catherine more information There are experts called Data Angels but Burton hasn't called in her usual expert on While at the hospital, Jake takes a pathologist Vic Farley, played by Peter They working you hard? Working me like crazy these days. Hey ,is this Renee Stein? You kidding? You were at the crime scene. Yeah I guess I did. No, this woman was married to her Ripper. He gets paranoid that his partner's putting it and shoots her to the death. I mean, stuff like Vic informs Jake that Dr. Burton's usual Data cyberspace handle, Falcon Eddie. he suggests Jake visit Gambit Nelson, an old He passes the time at the Cafe Du-CHAMP. DuChamp, Vic. DuChamp. Well, you can find him there. This DuCHAMP-DuChamp bit is a with a couple of other characters. It's At the Cafe DuChamp, Gambit reveals that he and Nowadays, Falconetti spends his time mostly in a guy named Twig, who lives out in Hoboken, who Heading out to Hoboken, a trip no one who doesn't want to give up but all it takes is Jake getting a bit You don't give me Falconetti in 5 seconds, I'm and you won't be dancing with any Don't blow your motherboard cuz Burton's The Falcon is playing in one of his Wells. trying a different approach with him Thanks, you've been a big help. Before heading into cyberspace there are a few other leads to run down. Renee Stein was decked into. And she was A puzzle in Catherine's apartment will give Ripper case. However, her notes are decrypted. as in most of the rest of the game. The notes will as well as several hints for certain Also, by checking the rolodex on which I mean, it's the year 2040 and But anyway, checking it gives Jake where he meets the proprietor, Soap Beatty, DY-NO-MITE Soap is a contact of Catherine's but also acts as a hacker and among other things. Useful skills that Hey, in the net everything is in link, Quinlan. The shop is the shop. In cyberspace I Jake can also go to the Wofford cottage of Hamilton Wofford, the cyber architect who was Jake discovers that Hamilton was working the district of London where the original Finally, Jake heads to the circus maximus well in cyberspace and lands himself in a Looking for Falcon Eddie? What the [ __ ] is going on here? It's a 40 GB virtual environment. Made it myself. A whole 40 gigs? My God. This reminds me of that line in about trying to sell 3 megabytes I have a friend who was attacked by the Ripper. Ripper. Someone who's almost She needs your help. Before I help you, you got to show I'm going to work with you I got So Jake has to beat Falcon Eddie's score in this on-rails shooting gallery. After Back at Falcon Eddie's Safe House, Twig tells Jake that Falconetti has been Yeah, that's the face I Falconetti reveals that he has a grudge the hospital has the hots for him, according interface with Catherine by saying that he tampering with his investigation. At this point, we're onto Act 2 out of 3, so this you'd like to experience Ripper on your own, game gives you freedom on what order you visit but this part of the story is always the same. since there are 4 suspects who could potentially sequences change slightly depending on what path Arriving back at the hospital, Jake Burton doesn't want to let Falconetti Is your method dangerous? Are you kidding? Of course it's dangerous. databases here. Decking into an organism is You can't be overriding [ __ ]. You got to watch potentially very damaging. Well how do you figure? I can rebuild her memory. I can think it's breathing. You'll be able Well, that would save Catherine and anybody what's the real reason for preventing Do I detect a little Magnotta in Do any damn thing you want. I'm going to the gym. The gym? Uh okay. So with Falconetti's help, Jake fights his way finds, what Falconetti calls, her essence. Jake to get Catherine to remember more and form he doesn't have any new details to give Catherine and feeding her information Jake goes down to the morgue to see Farley again, a new pathologist, Bob Epples, who's not as Where is Farley? I have no idea where Mr Farley is but you look for him in a restaurant. One that Doot-do-doo? Why? That's amazing. Anyway, the reason Epples heard Farley Didn't keep the morgue clean enough, which I Over at the police station, Magnotta Here's my stuff. I'm going into interrogation, Brannon. You know? Little police work. Jesus Christ. This serendipitous moment allows Jake to the detective's personnel file, which later. We can also take a peek at Enough, okay? I sold those fossils some Lucid-B. making a big deal out of this for? It's not It's touching to see you feel so deeply. runs the blood of a poet. I wouldn't No, performance now, mother. I'm in rehearsal. If we check back on the decryption Jake finds out that she has some information Heading over there and solving a puzzle in saved on it. Entering the string of numbers the newsroom reveals a secret compartment Jake plants the listening device in Magnotta will never even notice the bug is there. You sure about that, Jake? That looks pretty heavy cigar smoker. What happens I don't know. I'm not the investigative reporter. At the hospital, Jake finds another card on he takes it. Turns out this card allows access to place the camera he has inside the eye of an finds a document on Burton's desk that mentions He heads over to the university to speak with Dr Burton and Falconetti's past as part of group that they started apparently still hallway of the university provide clues on After entering the long ass code into the door, Jake enters the Loft and finds Hey man, what the [ __ ]? Who are you, man? You almost gave me and I was the only Korean Indian This won't take too long, honey. I Make an appointment with my secretary. I'm going to tell you what I've been going through serial killer and ruining my shine by walking coma, and the next time the Ripper kills it could Yeah, Jake's a little high strung. This current Webrunner, Kashi, says that not 100% on that. Jake will need to access After accessing the well by completing a a group of gamer nerds, but I was expecting considering the shooting gallery segments, Jake finds an archive with dossiers on each And what do you know, Magnotta was Jake also learns that Burton, Falconetti, and and Falconetti were originally married, relationship by falsifying evidence in a he was released from prison after 2 years when it evidence. Magnotta was never fingered though. There are files on other members as well, Jake then gets a transmission from who had a close relationship with Burton, has information about the Ripper and but when Jake arrives he finds another brutal hands of the Ripper and Magnotta has already who was decked in during the attack The cops just took the body. God, it and I was doing the OK Corral. And I was and I felt all of this red stuff hit me, cuz I figure it's Doc Holiday blowing Frank shooting Morgan, so I know something's wrong. So and she was just there dude. She was just all and [ __ ] I didn't do this [ __ ] Poor, Kashi. Jake goes to the morgue to check on what he's talking about and mentions that lab. After a bit of a runaround to figure out the files and find out that Stephanie Jordan's Where is this storage area? You just go through the door in the Mr Quinlan, please leave before you get me fired. I love this guy. There's another door inside animal storage, but pretty interesting puzzle. Jake needs to splice to unlock the door, so he signs out an audio and then visits Burton at the gym where he Burton likes to run the Victorian London course Anyway, after getting the recording "This is Dr. Burton. Open up." This is Dr Burton. Open up. I liked this whole thing. Probably The door reveals a whole secret lab that of Stephanie Jordan is indeed conducting experiments on monkeys. She. Can. Kill. Others. Like. Me. Without. What the [ __ ]? Burton keeps her lips sealed about the Jake finds out that Falconetti which contains notes about the Ripper murders Ripper. Confronting Falconetti about this with Burton and the animosity between him and Falconetti initially says he doesn't know she was one of the founding members of the At this point it's pretty and Magnotta are all prime suspects. They're could lead you to believe that any Meanwhile, Jake keeps feeding Catherine she's been told enough, you'll eventually the original pathologist that was fired from the DuChamp. Vic has discovered how the Ripper no physical evidence. All of the victims and the ripper has developed a code that's the body's internal pressure until the Vic. Vic. Oh my god! Vic! Talk about spilling your guts, am I right? Yeah. From here on out, things can change ever so has decided is the actual Ripper. And when I not a whole lot that actually changes. And I'll Jake is arrested for Farley's murder and gets I want to know how you did What are you high on, Magnotta? I want to know how you did it. Ah [ __ ]! I'm gonna [ __ ] have your badge for this. I know all about pressure points. a mark. Not that I give a damn [ __ ]. Oh you are [ __ ] losing it. Magnotta, and when I run this story everybody's going You're the one getting mystery messages from she's attacked. You're the last person Farley when he's killed. How come the I'm a writer [__]. If you ask me, it looks like of a muck raker who can't tell the Didn't it sink in when I told you told me that the weapon is in cyberspace? apart and be sipping coffee You dirty. Ah [ __ ]. How you going Ah. Ah [ __ ]. Self-defense, man. I mean why'd you hit me, I'm going to smear you all over the bastard. Now let me out of here. You got You can walk for now, but I'm on to you. Wait, so he's just gonna let him walk? After all that? He cut his forehead Jake heads back to the Wofford but instead he finds someone holding Covington He shoots the intruder in the shoulder, and Jake so now we're looking for someone with a shoulder shows that he's got a problem with his shoulder. Magnotta says he's already caught the Ripper even produces an image of Falconetti that he Don't think any of these developments lets you What? But according to you, you already Earlier Covington Wofford revealed that his cyberspace, so Jake decks in to speak with the was one of his clients and commissioned him to Ripper even helped him build it, so whoever they Probably some kind of weirdo game developer. to him as a man and as a woman on different weapon that can kill the Ripper in cyberspace. [__] you not. Wofford split the weapon into three to access the three wells and complete puzzles weapon won't be enough. Jake also needs a way If you head over to Falconetti's well, you developing a role playing game one of the Webrunners was killed the last time we can talk to Soap about Vic Farley's Jesus, biomorphing through the net? Using a c-space code to control the body? Really? Soap theorizes that the Ripper has figured out his victims bodies. That's how Farley was able to Back at the hospital, Jake shows the image who says it looks real and corroborates that so they could have produced such an image. and finds out that Catherine's brainwave activity took place. So is Catherine a suspect now too? When Jake decks into Catherine, he has enough Rhodes comes up, which is a name we saw in Josey Dorsett was the woman who was killed in the mother. Catherine also admits to wanting to steal as a news reporter. However, the Ripper tricked from the virtual library that transported her to While following this lead, to the bank industries where there's information about a transmission comes through from the listening there's video of this as well. Maybe Burton I told you Magnotta was gonna smoke that There's a lot more running around, tracking but writing down this summary and speaking it out seem so random. There are so many details Eventually, all of this leads Jake to protect himself from the Ripper. He'll need and a sensor. Kane hands over the compression sensor in the Isis well. He'll need more After answering a sphinx's riddle, Jake gets Kane has found the anti-viral well, where you need to jump across these tiles to So now Jake has his weapon and but he needs access to the Ripper role playing who tells him games are archived in Warp Space and Here we finally meet John-Rhys Davies who wants to [__] Jake, apparently. Now let me tell you how you [ __ ] He's the bigwig behind the bankrolling of Burton's speaking to him. As I pointed out earlier, it so I thought this was like a twist when I first point that one of these other four characters game is the Ripper, and then this guy comes Anyway, he coughs up the Warp Space password, if the appearance and misdirection of John turns out this whole pathway is But it's a trigger that needs to Back at the hospital once again, Jake discusses killer thought Josey Dorsett, Catherine's mother, parts right before the game began. When Jake her research involved translating brain images in so they could implant subliminal messages into and Burton hints that there could be other ticking time bomb into other people's bodies? But research notes and if they were skilled enough about the Ripper's method of implanting code the reason Catherine survived the attack code for the remote transmission yet. But by Jake then shows her the image of Falconetti its authenticity, and she says, yo dummy, stuff over there that can verify if an image has the Virtual Herald does indeed have a machine has been doctored. Who da thunk it? When Jake actor seems to be doing a bit of a Christopher Well, if it's another frame job I'm Please don't. Not the herald. That's cute. Cute. You're going to need because with no badge and no bounty you're going going to free Eddie. And cost you a shot at the You can also confront Falconetti at his safe as well, but he says he pulled it throwing Dr. Cable will call to tell Jake that Catherine Jake rushes to the hospital, but by the We almost had it in the screen off the monitor. It's out of memory. decked into the net. I can't reach her. It's gotta be the Ripper. He's making his move. I am making my move. Ha. The Ripper says to go to the library and use Once Jake enters, he runs into a fortune teller cards in order of the lyrics to the song they used this song actually. Is it because After that, each of the suspects will appear entire story synopsis you may be wondering, I skipped some stuff in this story summary, looks suspicious. They're all expert hackers and We don't really know about that. But there are one of them could be the killer. Magnotta his shoulder is hurt. Falconetti has an obsession his shoulder is also hurt. Burton has all her related to her secret lab. Not to mention the that's very similar to how the Ripper kills since she's been in a coma this whole time, but we whenever the ripper killed. Maybe her coma was timer based aspects of the kill code? and the sad truth is that it's completely the game never changes enough to give you your particular playthrough. So you've just gotta In my playthrough, Magnotta You really put a job on him. I couldn't have done Wafford said his weapon would destroy At the end you see Jake typing up his story the other characters, and that's it. We don't It's an extremely disappointing realization would have been better if they had not you clearer clues as to who the killer was. you find out John Rhys-Davies character was I didn't play through the game 3 more times to because of all the technical issues I had just a YouTube video of the other 3 endings, and yeah, So, bit of an anticlimax. I've gotta it has a lot of interesting ideas, but it trying to set up red herrings, like a good the trail of the true killer. The only problem because the game randomly chooses who the killer the way to make it feel satisfying even when When I chose Magnotta and found out was the right choice. The other characters are that one feels really weak, and if it would have I think I would have been even So what do we have here at the end of Ripper? overly long transition scenes, ok shooting The narrative starts out as an interesting multiple ending structure ultimately undermines atmosphere is dark and moody, and I did enjoy looking at is the entertainingly ham-fisted stealer, but many of the other lesser known and Ripper also impressed and entertained me. I don't think so. I mean, if you've seen the highlights. There are I didn't show off fully, so if you want Ripper is an intriguing relic of and as far as the actual performances go, it's the thing doesn't elevate it enough to make it as opposed to something like the I enjoyed exploring Ripper for this video, and I I played hadn't kept crashing on me, but yeah, Dis guy is un-[__]-believable. So that's it for Ripper. Thank you very longer to produce than my others thanks to but yeah, made it in the end. If you and subscribe to the channel if you haven't. I also want to thank the Dungeon Dwellers through YouTube Memberships. You all I'm gonna be honest, I want to do and YouTube is completely unreliable, so eventually make that a possibility. And I've money coming in a few months. I won't say more I need to personally thank the each month. Those are the Dungeon Architects: GoatsAndGoblins HalfHP High Foodcourt Izzy Ketchup Kevin Hanley Kyowa Lvnarvale god Amba Singh Richard Cutting Shannon As well as the Dungeon Connoisseurs: Adahn Alberto Dranzer big big big big big big farty nuts Bunnzo CripplerJones DazedClockwork deekadiko Dungeon Boyum Irregular Rob Jbuttairline Jemma Come Home Liana macrophage Manwithconfetti Noelle the Monkey OldDeadLemons videos PrinceGoof rainbows98 Resident Roland Sable Samuel Pandiangan samurai85x Spodi T TCB TrueAxiom Tuesday Twinn TV's Brent Thank you all for your support, and Next time I'm going to cover a game that has my Q&amp;A video back in December, and I'm finally Until then, Ripper. Check it out. Dungeon Chill. Out.