[theme music] Back in 1988, Nintendo of America follow-up to Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 2. And... People loved it. Still do, actually. But the game was quite different You were no longer stomping but instead picking vegetables out of the Bowser, the main villain from the first game, was replaced with a giant toad named Wart. But hey, developers like to try new ideas. Maybe Nintendo just wanted No big deal. But then Super Mario Bros. 3 came out and... Bowser was back! So was all the Goomba and Koopa stomping. This made Super Mario Bros. 2 Why was it so different? It wasn't until several years later about the game. This is the story... of Super Mario Bros. 2. [acoustic guitar plays In order to understand Super Mario Bros. 2, we first have to look at the original game, Super Mario Bros. Released in 1985, the game was a smash hit. In Japan alone, 6.8 million copies were sold. Worldwide, around 40 million copies. The best-selling book in was a strategy guide on Seeing the success, Nintendo as well as special versions. One of these titles was an arcade game: Vs. Super Mario Bros. Vs. Super Mario Bros. but added some new, more difficult stages in order to gobble up quarters from gamers. Development was handled by the same team that created The manager was Mario While R&amp;D4 designed new levels, they noticed how much fun the &quot;We had to redesign some levels We ran some tests with the team When I realized this, I said to myself, 'Gifted players who've completed This is how the development - Shigeru Miyamoto Super Mario Bros. 2 would be developed the Famicom Disk System. Released in February of 1986 and only in Japan, the Disk System played games made They were cheaper to make than cartridges and could hold more data. Nintendo hoped that all their future big releases would be dedicated to the Disk System. That included Legend of Zelda, Metroid, and of course, Super Mario Bros. 2. The original game was a major success. Releasing a sequel was a no-brainer and would help drive sales of the Disk System. R&amp;D4 would work on the sequel but were given a small Miyamoto, who had just become a father, and was simultaneously working on took a step back in his role. Director duties were handed a young designer who helped Miyamoto did, however, find some time to tinker with levels. Said Miyamoto, &quot;Designing challenging levels Using the same game engine, as well as a few levels Tezuka and his team were able Less than a year after Japan was given the first official sequel. Super Mario Bros. 2... on the Famicom Disk System. Well, here it is, the Let's boot it up and see what it has to offer. The first thing you'll notice right away is there's no longer a two-player option. You can either play the game as Mario or Luigi. Unlike the original game, though, each plumber has their own unique traits. Luigi can jump really high but has really poor traction, which makes it seem almost like he's on ice. Mario can't jump as high, but he has better traction. This was the first game to In most games since, he is given the ability to The poison mushroom in the that this game isn't messing around. Super Mario Bros. 2 is hard. Very hard. The level designs seem Some levels force you to find else you just stare off into an endless pit. There are warp zones to help you advance, but even these can trick you. I was able to find a warp zone in World 3 that would only send me back to World 1. New enemies appear, too. Red piranha plants pop out of pipes quickly and won't stop even if you are close by. Later stages feature Hammer Bros. that keep moving towards you. The game even adds wind in some areas, making jumps longer and You only get three lives before it's game over. Luckily, the game offers you unlimited continues. As you can see, the game looks just like the first one. The music is exactly the same, too, which led many gamers to as a ROM hack or an expansion pack of the first game. Regardless, Super Mario Bros. 2 went on the Famicom Disk System, selling two and a half million units. With the success, Nintendo made plans They sent it across the Pacific Ocean... for review. [acoustic guitar plays Back in 1981, Nintendo of America hired a young, to help unbox, assemble and even deliver arcade games. His name was Howard Phillips. As new games were unboxed, Phillips would occasionally President Minoru Arakawa noticed the and would often ask for He saw value in a Western gamer's opinion. By 1985, Phillips was playing just about to see if it would be a In the Summer of 1986, Howard Phillips received a new assortment Among the games was Super Mario Bros. 2. Phillips was surprised. This was the sequel to the most popular and he had received it without warning. He quickly booted the game up to test it out. He was immediately killed by a As Phillips played on, he became more and more &quot;As I continued to play, asked me again and again and that each of those leaps This was not a fun game to play. Undeserved punishment. I put down my controller had chosen to design such a painful game.&quot; - Howard Phillips Phillips went to Nintendo of America Arakawa silently nodded. Video games were still on the comeback A difficult sequel to the extremely could potentially turn off new players. Not only that, but visually the game looked exactly like the original. Nintendo of America wanted and better graphics. The game would also have to be into a cartridge. By the time the game could be mass produced, it would probably seem outdated. Releasing Super Mario Bros. 2 in North America would not be a wise marketing decision. Arakawa contacted his father-in-law, Nintendo of Japan president Hiroshi Yamauchi, asking for a more accessible sequel. It seemed like an impossible task. The Nintendo R&amp;D teams were But a sequel was necessary. Nintendo's rival, Sega, was pushing their Alex Kidd character. And third-party Nintendo licensees Nintendo risked having their The idea then came to rework But which game? Nintendo found their answer in the Summer of 1987 when Research &amp; Development 4 completed and Yume Kojo: Doki Doki Panic. [acoustic guitar plays In April of 1986, a recent graduate of the Osaka University of Arts joined Miyamoto's R&amp;D4 team: Kenuske Tanabe. Miyamoto encouraged his team to be creative and come up with potential new ideas for games. Tanabe came up with a platforming game where players would progress rather than horizontally. &quot;The idea was that you would and you would have items and or you could grab your friend and throw them to try and continue to ascend. Unforunately, the vertical scrolling gimmick wasn't enough to get us interesting gameplay.&quot; - Kensuke Tanabe The technical limitations of the NES made and playing it solo just wasn't very fun. The prototype was shelved. But Nintendo was a company An opportunity for the prototype to be used came when the Fuji Television about creating a game for The Dream Factory. The Dream Factory took place between It was used to promote Fuji Television's It was a huge celebration with live concerts, TV specials and costumed events. Fuji TV wanted special products and a collaboration with The Famicom was selling at a blistering rate. One in four households in Japan had the system. Kensuke Tanabe was put and he met with Fuji Television Executives handed Tanabe papers that known as the Dream Factory Family. They were the official mascots of the festival. &quot;Make a game with this,&quot; they said. Tanabe dug up his shelved prototype Shigeru Miyamoto. Miyamoto made a few suggestions. &quot;Make something a little more Mario-like. An action game,&quot; he said. &quot;As long as it's fun, anything goes.&quot; Development was officially underway, and several veterans of the Mario While Tanabe served as director, Miyamoto supervised the project. Koji Kondo, would provide the soundtrack. Under Miyamoto's supervision, horizontal levels were added The original prototype became the core gameplay mechanic. Several Mario references were added as well. There were stars, POW blocks, coins and warp zones. At one point, Miyamoto felt the game On July 10, 1987, Yume Kojo: Doki Doki Panic was released for the Famicom Disk System. Translated, the game is known as The game begins with two children, reading a storybook. Suddenly, an evil hand pulls them inside. Their small Monkey, Rusa, runs off to get help from who enter the book to rescue the kids. Doki Doki Panic lets you play as First, there is Imajin, a play on the word &quot;imagine.&quot; He's the most balanced character with average jump, speed and strength. Next is Lina, the sister. She can hover for a short period of time but isn't very fast or strong. Mama has the ability to jump really high but has subpar speed and strength. And finally, there is Papa, who is fast and strong The core gameplay revolves around usually a vegetable. Of course, not everything is a vegetable. Sometimes you'll pull up bombs, clocks that stop time and magic lamps. When you throw these lamps, they conjure up a door to another world, where you can potentially upgrade your health and gather coins. The coins allow you to play the bonus to earn extra lives. If you jump on top of an enemy, you'll go for a ride. But you can also pick them up and throw them. There's also a variety of all references to the Dream Factory festival. The game takes place in a variety grassy plateaus, caves and dungeons. Thanks to the vertical gameplay, you'll be going up into the clouds as well. Doki Doki Panic has a very Arabic feel to it which matches the characters. Because of their unique abilities, the game offers some strategy in In order to see the true ending, you'll need to beat the Luckily, Doki Doki Panic has a save system, so you won't have to do it all in one sitting. Critically, the game was a success. The popular Japanese magazine Famitsu calling it, &quot;an action game that's a When Nintendo of America requested a Nintendo of Japan saw Doki Doki Panic as a potential answer. It was made by the same team In fact, Miyamoto approached as if it were, quote, &quot;a full-fledged new Mario.&quot; Graphically, the game looked and the gameplay was different. While Fuji Television owned Nintendo owned everything else. They could replace the Dream Factory and release the game without any legal issues. The game was sent to Nintendo &quot;If you replace the four characters will the American children be happy? Nintendo of America thought yes, and plans were underway into a Super Mario sequel for North America. Tanabe and his team went back to work. In 1988, Howard Phillips received this time containing a modified copy of Doki Doki Panic. He thought it was a lot of fun and passed the news on to Mr. Arakawa. Nintendo went to work hyping up its release. Around the same time, the company was known as &quot;Nintendo Power.&quot; Gale Tilden, who was in charge of the magazine, made the decision to feature as well as include a large Will Vinton Studios, the same studio that designed came up with the cover. They created a clay diorama featuring Mario and the main villain, Wart. In July of 1988, over 600,000 gamers across the continent received the very first issue of Nintendo Power free of charge. It was the first time gamers would discover they were getting a sequel to Super Mario Bros. Later that year, on October 10, 1988, Super Mario Bros. 2 was [&quot;Super Mario Bros. 2 Menu Theme&quot; plays] Super Mario Bros. 2 quickly became The game was somewhat hard to come by, thanks to the industry-wide It was so popular, in fact, that ABC's &quot;20/20&quot; news program trying to find a copy of the game. So what are some of the differences between Well, overall, the games are pretty much the same, but there are a few small differences. The most obvious difference is that Imajin, the most balanced character, was changed to Mario. Lina, with her hovering abilities, was changed to Princess Toadstool, also known as Princess Peach. Mama, who could jump the highest, was changed to Luigi. And finally, Papa, who was fast and strong but couldn't jump well, was changed to Toad. The plot was changed as well. The opening cinematic was completely explaining that Mario had a dream that was cursed by the evil Wart. After waking up, Mario and his friends when they stumble upon It's up to the four heroes to save the day. The handy save feature from as the game was converted Nintendo could have added a save battery but instead decided to remove the requirement of beating the game with all four characters. In Doki Doki Panic, you could only Each world consisted of three levels. With Super Mario Bros. 2, you now have the ability to change One welcomed change is the ability to run, which was surprisingly Just like the original Super Mario Bros., you can now hold the B which makes some areas Another change to make the When you got hit in Doki Doki Panic, you simply lost a health bar. In Mario 2, if you get down to one health, you'll shrink down, similar to the first game. Nintendo also added a new boss as the original Doki Doki Panic with a white Mouser enemy. Those are probably the biggest changes, but there are a few small audio Some animations were improved, Several items were replaced with like mushrooms and Koopa shells. The bonus slot machine game after each level was also given a visual upgrade. Overall, the two games are very similar, but Super Mario Bros. 2 does Nintendo kept quiet about the conversion of Several magazines at the time did mention it, but most gamers were unaware. The first official acknowledgement came in 1991 with the &quot;Mario Mania&quot; strategy guide, where Nintendo mentioned the In 1993, Nintendo released a compilation known as Super Mario All-Stars. The game contained enhanced versions as well as a game that most had never heard of: Super Mario: The Lost Levels. What was the &quot;Lost Levels?&quot; It was the Japanese Super Mario Bros. 2, the Famicom Disk System game that For many players, this was their The realization that North never got the original Super Mario Bros. 2 led some players to consider Not a real Mario game. But Super Mario Bros. 2 had a It sold over 10 million copies worldwide, making it the third best Several characters that have first appeared in Super Mario 2, including Bob-ombs, Shy Guys and Birdo. It was also the first time and Princess Peach. The game also established Luigi was finally updated to by being taller. Super Mario Bros. 2 that in 1992, Nintendo as &quot;Super Mario USA.&quot; Ultimately, the decision to not bring to North America and Europe was a good one. The difficulty and similarity didn't make sense for the If you want to play this game for yourself, you do have a few options. You can, of course, or as an unlockable bonus for the Game Boy Color. However, these versions are slightly modified to make the game a little easier. So if you want the real deal original challenge, I suggest picking it up on the As for the Western Super Mario Bros. 2, I remember playing it as a kid and... not really noticing how different it was. It just felt like a Mario game. And to know that it was well... that just makes sense! Unfortunately, we may never see Fuji Television holds the so if you want to play this game, you'll have to import it along But really, I think you'll be just fine It's a damn good game. That's all for this episode of Gaming Historian. Thanks for watching! [&quot;Super Mario Bros. 2 Theme&quot; plays]