The following content is Commons license. Your support will help MIT offer high quality educational To make a donation or view hundreds of MIT courses, visit ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: Good afternoon. Congratulations for braving it weekly snow disaster. This week's maybe three My name's John Gabrieli. This is Introductory to This is a course about you. The entire course is what do we way about human nature-- how people's minds work, how supports their mind. This entire course is about understanding how people feel, And so we're trying to say that must in your everyday life think your preferences, What's easy for you? What's hard for you? What's delightful for you? Why do other people behave How do they think? How do they feel? And so there's a lot of realms to by science. But what we're going to focus on scientific approach has shed to think about experiments about how humans tick. And as we go through this brain, we'll talk a fair bit The Man Who Mistook His Wife for It was a bestseller even when it course. It's a great book. You'll enjoy it. Short, really fun chapters. We'll talk about how we perceive see; especially, a little bit, we feel; personality; how we and what we're sort of like; world; development from adolescence, through young mostly, through getting older, interaction, how we behave in people; and variation in psychopathology. And increasingly, we understand number of people who, at some another, struggle with some And then we'll focus a lot on, aspects of what we study in the brain basis of that, and what extent the mind is what the the mind is what And so for every dimension of talk about, we'll also talk currently from the neuroscientific literature supports and contributes aspects of being a person. OK. So everybody who works in a their field is really, really, So here's why psychology really, really special. So it's really, really special, because every endeavor that we in society as a whole-- it's about people, right, except the rest of nature. But people study biology, And they think, right, that the some period of time. And then they think around currently, right? OK, so people come up with Even though we're trying to who make certain investments certain way or vote It's people who make music and appreciate art, read and write So in all these dimensions, fundamental about what it is gives birth to these areas of domains of human experience, So my only goal today is to number of different ways that in our minds between our ears, objective, simple way, that obvious things are around us at many different and perception. And then our minds, the way determines the world that we we act upon. And even very simple things objective and simple, right determined by inferences and makes, weighing sources of coming to conclusions about hear, what we see, So let's start with seeing. If your vision is reasonable, believe it, right? So let's start with something these lines. So one of the tough things about the Internet came into cool thing there is OK. I can tell you when I began gosh, I've never seen It's unbelievable! And then now, it's like two yeah, I've got that on We did that in third So all I'm saying is enjoy the don't ruin it for your neighbors harder and harder to in a nice way, right? OK, but let's look at these And perhaps you'll have the glaring up there, sir? Let's see. OK, is that better? OK. Maybe not. So you might have the sense that length than this line. And this might be somewhere Now you know, because of But what's simpler than What's more objective the length of a line? But if we look at the actual all literally identical. But that center part So what does it mean for It means our minds are as how long a line is depending information surrounding it. It's an interpretation If we're simply looking, the Let's try another one. It's remarkable that those two [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: OK, all right. It's OK to test the limits audience, right? All right. Yeah. Of course, if our visual system we'd be constantly walking into windows and things like that, misestimating at that length. So the idea where we have visual show you some more that I think it's not that our visual system psychologists think it's It's that lots of things our at, but it's brilliant by principles that it follows. And we can show this following that when we mess with the principles calculate So here's another one. So, to most people, which line middle or the one on the side? I know you know it's OK. What could be more obvious It's just a simple line, but if it then move them over here, The central circle-- does one of them, the larger than the other? Now you already know, turn out those two circles in But you have to convince like they're different. Here there in red. Here they are next They're identical. Again, this is evidence that, the size of a circle, your mind And there are principles and determine what it is you Here is two monsters But in fact, they're The perspective cues make one look much bigger. This is from Ted Adelson. This is a beautiful Ted Adelson's in the psychology There's a letter A here. And believe it or not, there's Let's see if this looks any It doesn't. All right. So one of the important things demonstrations in this class-- go along-- is occasionally they and discover what the So I'm just telling you monitor much brighter. It always has before. We'll adjust that. So I'm going to skip this, but because it's so good. And I'm going to feel OK. Now, let's see. This'll work. All the same shade [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: Did that work We'll try a few more. Maybe. For some reason, always like this, sorry. Does that one look lighter Yeah. Now they look radically It's the same grey constantly. But again, the context is hugely bright you see that grey. There it is. Two boxes equal grey. So things as simple as how long something is depend Here's an illusion from It's kind of great. So here's two kind of different looking tables, right? But they're not that And watch. There goes one tabletop. You're not impressed that those OK. Want me to do it again? That's the identical tabletop. To me, the one on the left looks the one on the right looks You're not easy to [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: You see that those at the same time. Does it look like they're It'll show you. All right, fine. It's just like that, but Does it look like little steps? [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: One more This is kind of fun. You see the way that the It always looks like it's one of the rotations-- it's interpreting the light is interpreting what's-- OK. So that's simply a consequence, understand that, that the source not where you're used to, so the illumination is coming face, what's front and what's sticking in or sticking out. OK. So again, the point in these simple things our, minds make we interpret the world. And that drives everything that upon what we see. So at a slightly higher level, I need your help. Now, there's lots of these where you get to participate. The fun thing about-- I said this course was about thought that was a bit It's truly about you. So you get to be your We get to share a laboratory And what I'm going to do is ask You don't have to do any of seat, but I think it's usually So what's going to happen to show you a drawing. If the people to my left-- so about in the middle, but you about this way, let's have you to be that way. All right. Because of that, I I was going to call you guys that's getting me in trouble. So we'll call it Group B, but But I'll just call it B, OK? So A and B, OK? So what I need is Group B-- B for best, A for awesome, OK. [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: --Group B to close Group B, if you want to have fun for a moment. Group A, you're gonna see some silently to yourself. And then I'll ask you a question OK, Group A, you're Group B has your eyes closed. So read the instructions OK? Now Group A, close your eyes. Everybody has their eyes Everybody has their Now Group B, look at So A has their eyes closed, OK? Everybody's eyes are open now. Everybody's eyes are open. Here's your picture. Take it in and I'm going questions about it. Look at it for a moment OK, here we go, ready? So just out loud-- was there an automobile AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: OK. See, this is a smart class. We're gonna have a-- Was there a man in AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: Was there a AUDIENCE: Yes. AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: OK. This side again, woman AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: All right, OK, a child? AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: An animal? AUDIENCE: No. AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: Ah. OK. And now it gets a little wild. OK? A whip? AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: OK. A sword? AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: All right, AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: A ball? AUDIENCE: Yes. AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: A fish? AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: All right, so And that's-- we're a democracy, right? So all these things are So here's what happened. Group A was told they were gonna trained seal act. And Group B got the identical told you're gonna look So you had an expectation of That expectation drives your thing you see next, which OK? [LAUGHTER] [CHATTER] PROFESSOR: OK, is All right. And this is just It's a set up. You're participating nicely. But in the world, when groups other about things like peace or make a statement, how much they start with guides the read or what they hear? Because you didn't have You weren't going, I believe in fish, I know things aren't just treated fairly. You're not emotionally invested there was a fish present. So your interpretation, your what you think you see and how for complicated things like lines or squares. And here's another kind of an interpret that as a 13 if it's in numbers. Again, the context is driving OK. Now this is one of those some number of years ago, And now, mostly people say, something better all seen on the internet? So if you know this, don't individuals. But what I need is a you'll be facing me willing to count something. And it's MIT, we're pretty So what's the message of that? The message is-- we've talked about what we expectations in context. But it's also we have very call attentional resources. We can pay attention of things at a time. And even when those things can our attention is focused or like counting the passes it wouldn't work if there was because you would notice it. But when your mind is focused on among the players-- and the they're weaving with the other then your attention is absorbed it is not left over to notice And we'll talk more But it's a huge thing with attention pretty well, on under many circumstances. And the other things escape us obviously present if we were attention to them. So here's another example of how what we see and what we don't and what we don't pay And that's something to OK, so I'm going So listen to what the Take a look, and he's saying some letters, What is it? OK, most people think he's da.&quot; Now let's try that again. I'm going to turn off the run the same film. What does his mouth look &quot;Ga ga.&quot; OK? But now we'll do one more thing, back on, have you close to what he's saying. What's he saying? AUDIENCE: &quot;Ba.&quot; PROFESSOR: Yeah. So it doesn't work for But the basic idea is most word &quot;da&quot; coming from And in fact, in their mind they they interpret what But in reality, the film clip saying &quot;ba ba ba.&quot; And then an saying &quot;ga ga ga.&quot; Your mind what you hear and what you see, way below your level You're not thinking about it. And you come up with a different what you hear. Right? So what you see would What you hear is When your eyes are open and your together and produce a third thing that's Again, your mind interpreted interpreting what you hear, OK. How about things that we know? So let's think about this. If somebody were to ask you to the Atlantic-- San Diego, California, Who likes San Diego as A few hands. Who likes Reno as being OK. So, here's the mental map most which is we know California's Arnold Schwarzenegger protecting the country, right? And then Nevada's a little bit OK. That's a mental map that And that's how the This is the actual map. And the only actual map you've on a map, anything. Because California takes a big further east than Reno. Why do we imagine, and most further east, when you've never that's shown you that? Never ever, ever. Yeah. PROFESSOR: Because it's farther because in our mind we go, There's nothing-- Hawaii is the only one out there So our mind makes this And that's what we think Now, we might not be We might not bet the Which is farther north-- Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, So start to think-- how would It's not something you know. Nobody memorizes it, right? But how would you begin probably more northern? What's your first gut? How many people like How many people like Rome There's kind of a mixture The answer is that Rome is Mostly people will answer that Why they do that is they think both sort of above the equator, kind of a aligned, even So they think, well, Rome is And it is. It's in Italy. Philadelphia's reasonably It gets winters and all So a northern city in the US southern city in Europe. But in fact, Europe is-- the compared to the US. So you won't-- wait until get Which is further north, [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: All right, Sorry. It's sort of a joke. Because sometimes when you do minute, all my assumptions Like, where am I? What's reality? [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: OK. Here's one more-- two more. Which is further north, Now you are already learning Whatever I thought, go But why do you think most Toronto is further north? Canada is up there, US is that's the mental map But in fact, Portland actually north of Toronto. We'll do one last one. Which is further west? Which is further west, Miami, way towards the Atlantic or Santiago, Chili-- which is Further west. So most people have a mental South America are kind of And so you say well, Miami is farther west. But in fact, South America is North America. And Santiago is actually more western, one relative Because in our head, we kind America-- they're kind of lined saw a global map like that. So again, some of our knowledge about the world and what So what's the point of this? It's what used to be called Their story keeps changing. And it's hard to remember People remember a nugget, or psychology, a little point. And second, what you take as a next person, the way you something like that. Thanks very much, [APPLAUSE] PROFESSOR: Again, two things-- is surprisingly modest. And how we interpret things So now, you had four brave the limits and properties So now, here's an exercise you OK, you're just knowing did, but here we go. I'm going to read And then just give you-- don't If you write it down, And then I'm going to ask you on you heard a word or not. Ready? So here's the list. So just listen and then for it right after. Here's the list. Sour, candy, sugar, bitter, honey, soda, chocolate, heart, OK? All right, how many word &quot;sour?&quot; All right. Yeah, excellent, thank you. &quot;Chair.&quot; &quot;Candy.&quot; Hey. &quot;Honey.&quot; &quot;Building.&quot; &quot;Sweet.&quot; a false memory. [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: Now, it's Because here's the way they make up, but there's a huge lesson. And in fact, you may hear memories, what are false clinical cases. This is a laboratory experiment testing ground for lots of ideas memories and how we end up So here's the way they They took the word &quot;sour.&quot; And basically like you and said, think of that goes with sour? And people came up with Candy, sugar, bitter, good, soda, chocolate, heart, But they left out one came up with a lot. The word &quot;sweet.&quot; OK? So your mind interpreted You said, hey, this is all about to sweet things in one way or candy, sweet and sour, honey is So your mind imagined it heard majority of you put your hand up word &quot;sweet.&quot; Your mind imagined that was generally what That was the gist of So this idea is it's very memory works, we remember the what's the important part. It's hard to remember But that gist is an The gist was it's So the word &quot;sweet&quot; feels like And we'll come back to that So one of the themes we'll talk is both an amazing power of the peril of the human mind. And it's what psychologists It's that our mind, in order does things automatically consciousness. It lets us walk without where our feet are. It lets us speak quickly without syntax and the vocabulary, It lets us do a lot of things. So that's the power of it. The peril is when something control of it within So I need somebody at their aloud something as fast as they the computer monitor. If I can get a volunteer OK, all the way back And then I'll come to you Ready? Here it comes. As fast as you can, go. AUDIENCE: One way PROFESSOR: OK, then, I couldn't trick you. OK. But you might imagine a person Was there another one? Was it you? OK, ready? Here we go. Go. AUDIENCE: Paris in spring. PROFESSOR: Ah. I got you on that. [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: Because your mind We have lots of evidence in looking at words like assuming over those things. They're almost invisible to you physically present, because your big content, right? Who cares about the word &quot;the?&quot; the essential information, and what's in front of you, because looking for. Here's a fun one. You've seen things like always fun to try. It's the same principle. How many letter F's do you Can I get some numbers? AUDIENCE: 6. AUDIENCE: 4. AUDIENCE: 5. PROFESSOR: 4, 5, 6. Those are all good. We're not an exact science. [CLAMORING] PROFESSOR: Some of you may have Again, it's because your typical readers read at And the way you read at a look for little details. You get the big words and the for the big meaning. And you're leaving behind what Yeah. AUDIENCE: So if you ask this pronounces &quot;of&quot; just would that change anything? PROFESSOR: The question was if pronounce F's or something AUDIENCE: That didn't pronounce In America, we pronounce PROFESSOR: &quot;Of,&quot; you mean something like that. Does that matter for this? Yes. It also matters a lot that words preposition words that we So this is a set up. Like &quot;finish,&quot; most Or the beginning of a word I think the pronunciation I don't know that for sure. That's a very good thought. And certainly, hiding it in for interpreting a sentence is That's why the second &quot;the&quot; It's sort of a low processing a sentence. OK. This is an example that you and we can come back to So let me think about Maybe we'll do it this way-- their seat who has typical If you're color blind, this one Some percentage are. Is somebody willing at their see on a monitor? OK, thank you. Here we go. So you're gonna see words in different colors. Your job is to name aloud the printed in. Does that make sense? So like on this F, you that F. Is that OK? Here we go. So start here and just go. AUDIENCE: Red, orange. PROFESSOR: As fast as you AUDIENCE: Green, brown, pink, PROFESSOR: Great, excellent. Same thing. Read the color of the ink Go. AUDIENCE: Green, blue, red, PROFESSOR: Ah, you're OK. It's supposed to slow you down wrong colors. And it usually does. But you were very good. All right. Again, if you know this from don't ruin it for others, but So now we're gonna There's 30 people in a room. Just imagine you sat-- there' You get the month and date of So it's not the year they were 1 or February 5 or something What is the approximate will have the exact I can tell you the vast majority slightly less suspicious answer about 10%. That's the vast majority. The correct answer is-- OK? Why do you think-- this is work from Kahneman We'll come back to this. Why do you think people tend Very few people give you correct answer of 70%. Why do they do that? Because they tend to think, how who has my exact birthday? And you go, not that often. It's not like every 30 people were born on March 3. I was born in March 3. And then you go have lunch born on March 3. And you go have dinner with was born on March 3. It's not something that So you go, well, in real to happen very often. That's what we call a think about it. Because your experience But why is that incorrect mathematically for this question? Because the math depends on birthday, but any pair of And then it goes way up. In fact, it goes to 70%. And if it's 24 people, If you're a group of 36 people, just mathematically, that share the same birthday. Because when we face things that because there's no easy answer, shortcuts and say, what's the that's what I think Even when a calculable It's human nature to make a of your experience. So there's a very interesting Dan Gilbert of Harvard about this idea of thinking Now, thinking about our future We're thinking about what's it like in college, what's our with parents, what's our future of life will we lead, right? Our future is something that's very powerfully when you're or a graduate student. What's my future? And a big question that people happy in a deep sense? What will make me happy Because that's the life the values I want to have, the personal choices I want to make, time on this earth. So most people, first of all, things, positive things. Actually, I can tell you what It's good to think that lots of positive things are happening. It's kind of a nice place being a happy person. But it turns out that people So now this is particularly member, but it could work for out or anything you've tried So what happens when we get And you hear a bit about that. This was an easy study for What they did is they called up being reviewed for tenure. And you get tenure And it's a bit of a sad process because you don't get tenure, about that. And you have to call your tenure, and your parents go, better, you would've [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: Remember the piano So it's a bit of a On top of that-- because weirdly, in academics, specialized-- you have You don't have to, but doesn't get tenure will get There's plenty of stories of awesome places who were The tenure decisions But still, you'd rather You'd rather get into the You'd rather make a sports to be on than not. So here's what they found out. If they asked them what happens tenure, everybody says, oh, It's gonna be miserable. I'm gonna be such an Two years later, the average get tenure was equal to the who did get tenure. So you can say, well, professors care about tenure. Well, how about winning What if I won hundreds of There' been a lot of psychology In about a year to two, the winner who won a substantial same by him or her as it was Yeah? AUDIENCE: How did they go about measuring average happiness? PROFESSOR: Yeah, so we'll but I'll tell you. You can like this or In some parts of psychology, reaction time to the That's good data, right? Our brain activation, When you ask a person how happy we can do is have you basically one to seven. How happy are you? And you could go, well I'm a because sometimes people say, I or something. So you could say, how subjective reports of happiness? And that's a very On the other hand, it's hard be better than that. If we measure your better measure of happiness? Your pulse could be racing scared or enthusiastic. So we don't have a better one But psychologists do worry that just say what they're Or they'll pretend they're happy We have to worry about So you could worry deep down, people who win huge amounts of as any happier than people And kind of amazingly-- but I think it's deep accidents leading to accidents that, before you had imagine that it would be And it can be in many ways. But by self report, ratings of average populations in about three months. So what's a huge lesson here a huge surprise. It's two things. We're kind of bad at predicting happy or sad, which is We're kind of bad at Here's all these things where happy or make us not so happy. It turns out we're wrong when scientifically. So we'll come back to that later deep thing about what makes you happy and sometimes about what does. So let me end with a So we've really haven't done And this is now a sensitive and problems we have in dealing And here's a study that It said, well, in North America, the US-- a study was racism is widely condemned, believe it should be. But examples of blatant One recent poll said that individuals reported hearing workplace in the last to pick one thing. So how does this happen in a about not being racist, about fairly and kindly? How does it happen that And it's such a very deep, nature and the world But here's something again hard to get society to change So here's the experiment-- so it's an actual experiment. So they took two groups of randomly assigned one to be That's a group that tells you and how they think they would circumstances. And then an experiencer that's a group who actually I'll tell you what So in the experiencer group, research participant. You walk into a room, and you and a white male. Now those two are what reason, have called Those are role players. They know what they're doing. They have a plan of what They're going to put on But you don't know that. And the black male stands up and cell phone, and he gently bumps This is all set up. You're just sitting there and And now, there's three One group, that's it. Nothing else happens-- A small bump, and the A second group-- as you sit there, the black the white individual says, when black people do that.&quot; provocative and racist. And then what they consider the white person in the room derogatory word that's meant So there's one more thing Now, you're sitting there, and group where there's been the moderate slur, or an extreme The black male returns. Don't forget, he's in on it, But you're not in on it. You just think there was a bump, have happened, depending on And the experimenter then gives you feel right now. Sort of like the happiness, It's like, how do you And then asks you to pick partner for an anagram you're about to do. So they're going to ask you-- this is sort of this What's the difference or say you're feeling is and Both things are important, they not line up? So here's the results. Here's a graph. And here's how this works. Negative emotional distress the you say, I feel really bad about I just heard this comment So let's take a look, If you heard no comment, So let's start with All of you are forecasters, you're in the situation So here is there was That's sort of average And then you said if you you would feel terrible. You would feel terrible. But look at the other students So we don't think it's a Look at these grey bars. They're pretty flat. The person on the spot is And they're filling out, You see the split-- the split between the values would have, and the values that spot in the moment. And what we'll talk about later is there's a tough gap, often, and how we act when there's difficult things. And very often-- if you've had any experience go, oh, what I should Or I wish I would've But that moment is not happening probably because you're by the whole thing. What's going on? Why would the person say this? Something doesn't seem right. I can't sort it out. And so people tend to shrink conclusion of what's going on provocative. And you could say, well, OK, But how about their action? Who do they pick to And again, the people this situation, I would never to be my partner, because if I was in that situation. But if the people are look at the grey bars-- pretty flat. It's a if on the spot, in the process the values they they're going to take. And we'll talk about that. And it's very hard, often, and stand up to things. It turns out there's a lot It's a human nature thing. It's very hard to be brave and are kind of weird, because thinks, I don't want to I don't want make trouble. Maybe I'm not getting the And we shrink back from acting values that are clearly So this, again, is something nature that's very weird. And it's powerful to come And that's why it's very hard oppression and bias. It's very hard to do, because values when we're situations on the spot. And there's a tremendous amount So again, how we interpret very different in our mind when and when we actually And so what these researchers been hard to eradicate some racism, because people have a in the moment. So that's a tough topic, but we with things that are less that touch people's lives that we live in. So we talked about a of the human nature-- mind and behavior-- how what we see and hear is mind interprets the world around things like word lists or influenced by what we expect to how we think we know things like San Francisco; how we think probability that somebody else that somebody else will in a between how we feel The very feelings we have are in the moment. And sometimes that has a sort And so we'll explore all these all the different facets that we in one semester of what it is to has showed us something about mind, and the brain.