This is the last that you will ever need to watch. For a lot of people, the when it comes to black walnuts. And that is a shame that produces tons of wild fruits that are incredibly They just are a but this video is going to change that. I'm gonna show you a method for cracking, but more importantly, for separating the that is perfectly viable, whether you are In my own learning with black walnuts, I have watched dozens Maybe you've The vast majority of What's up everybody? I'm gonna show you a It's so quick, you You're just gonna take We got a hammer, we're gonna hit it. Dang this, it's I haven't really done this much before. There we go, just gonna hit it. All right, then you just And there you go, That's all there is to it. Like, comment, Actually, you know, you I wasn't satisfied that any of them would give me a for what I wanted. That's why I had to come up with my own. There are three components to my process. One of them was but I could not argue that it gave. And another one, I talk about before. It's what made me so I know the video is long, So stick with me. I promise you, you're I also have timestamps to a particular After putting this method together, I really, I'm looking at black walnuts in a completely different way. I think this video is build a deeper And the thought of So with all of that, let's get started. This process begins at have cured and I'll tell you more to this point a little bit later. For years, the is I would take my and start cracking them immediately. And that was a huge mistake. This is gonna sound very strange, but I want you to first take your walnuts and put them in a You heard me right, to soak. Just trust me, you'll see why. Okay, check this thing out. So I actually got that tip from the people who the Grandpa's Goody Getter Nutcracker. I wanna take a moment to for my method that I'm laying out. In theory, you don't No matter what method that you use, you're gonna be able to that I'm gonna highlight for you today. But if you're as a real viable wild food source, I highly recommend you I've used a just can't compare like the Goody Gitter. These machines are made and the craftsmanship is impeccable. But honestly, to about this company is about black walnuts. You can go on their and read their they actually care about this and that is what matters most to me. You can get $10 off your Ferrell24. You will get the best and you'll support not as I get a little bit And that helps me to make more deep dives and wild food So I hope that you check them out. And with that, let's get Here I have a batch of I've experimented It usually ends up where they have soaked enough. With some of my shells early on in the season, a few times at the to make sure that doesn't get too inky in flavor. When I was just and getting used to doing that, I would actually take one out of a batch around the 24 hour mark to test to see if it was at the right point. And I think the best way to tell you what you're really is to tell you about if you don't soak the black walnuts. If you don't soak them, your black walnuts, in an explosive fashion. I don't even think that (clattering) I would literally when I was cracking and get everywhere. I would also have to wear gloves because as they would break open, they would really But what's even worse is would be extremely brittle. So you're gonna end up of both nuts and shells as opposed to when they're soaked and the nut meat you get way more complete pieces which I think is what Okay, let's talk Now, before we do that cracking is something I'm not the best And the cool thing about is that the next two steps, which to me are the are gonna be able to compensate if you are also learning this, if you're getting a And that's what I think is really amazing about this whole process you can still be really excited about what you're for black walnuts. But nonetheless, I'm gonna that you can pay with the next steps of the process. Here's my setup here, got the cracker. I have a little container and here is a black walnut. So let's go ahead What I do is I place my and I'm feeling for as I press down that it's expanding on all sides. Okay, now I take this one off, and I'm just gonna start to take apart the outside pieces right there. All right, and then I'm So if you were you might want to worry as you're going through it. But as you'll see in the next step, that doesn't matter for Just chuck them all in the pot. It'll make things faster, trust me. One thing that is whether or not, you see, this is what I call That's the flat, and I don't know if it's actually the top, but that's how I And whether or not to place it in with the top side up or the flat side up, I'm still experimenting with that. And as I learned any new things like that that aren't included in the video, I'll make sure to with any updates so and see if there's anything new. Now, one cool thing with the Goody-Getter is that you can get these which is really awesome. But for me, I'm I did a between the halves and the quarters, and they tasted just the same. What I'm worried about is the taste. I'm not worried about I'm not selling them. These are just for me. So that's all that I care about. You will lose a little bit of efficiency if you try to get So it's up to you of what you're actually after. This part right here, honestly, it's my So enjoyable, a little bit better each time and getting better pieces each time. I really, really love it. Okay, let me show you that are important that I'm gonna show you in just a second. Here are shears, and here is a little in Sam Theria's book. And if you have that are like this, then you can come in with these shears, use them like that and pick them out, and then eventually come and pop them out of there, right? And we're gonna do that later. Do not worry about That's only gonna slow you down. Okay, so check it out right here. Here's a bunch that we have. Look at all that. Looks really, really amazing. Now we're gonna take all this and I'm gonna show Okay, so now we have our bowl right here. And looking at this, oh my God, that is going to take forever to go through and sort all of those. And it would if we but we're not gonna do it by hand. We are gonna take of the nuts in order to extract them from all the rest of the stuff. The first one is the size, and the second one is the density. So starting off with the size. What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna use these little sorting trays right here. I have three different sizes. So we have a half inch, a fourth inch, and then an eighth inch. These you can pick up on Amazon. I think that they're but I have found tons of uses for them in the realm of foraging as well. You could also just if you wanted to. But what I really love about these mainly is that they're circular like this. So you can fit and you can fit them on I use these all the time. I use them for processing black walnuts, hickories, acorns, There are tons of uses for them. I really, really highly recommend them. This and all the other are gonna be in the description in a kit that I have for all of you guys. Okay, so with that, let me to go through Okay, first thing that we're gonna do, we're gonna be working with So here's the largest one. That's a half an inch. Taking all of this. I'm gonna do a little bit at a time. See that? And these are all the smaller pieces. So here is what we do next. So as you can see, some of These are all just the shell. Perfect, so we can just take these, sorry, it's loud, take But you can see here that have a little bit of the nut meat that is still stuck on there. So now we can take and we can work through all of these and we can just do them all in one go and not have to as we are doing another process. A lot of these will but that's okay. Even if they're a little bit smaller, we are still gonna in the next step. One thing to mention with this is that there is a point of diminished returns. I'm not going to, you know, I could spend a really long time making as I can, but in they're just gonna slow me down. And I don't need it to be perfect. That's not what I You might be Okay, so that's all was worth finding So I'll give it one more shake. And then these here are the And here are the shells. And these are all Now for the next step. So I put all of these back in. The smaller bowl right there. Now we're gonna over here like that. And here we go. Same exact thing. Now all of our all the smaller pieces are in here. This contains what we're really after. This is gonna contain our quarter pieces and the larger pieces of nut meat. Check that out. That is looking awesome. There's still a bunch of shells in there. And there's also So really quick, with one more filter. Last one, here's the 1 eighth inch mesh. And you're used to it now. It's always to it. It's really easy at this point in time. We've gone through most of it. And this stuff, this particle size, I personally don't worry about. But now what are we gonna do with this? So now we have them all sorted out, but we still have a problem. We have all the nuts And right now it's about 50-50. At this point, many to just manually sort And with these larger With the smaller ones There's hundreds and hundreds of tiny pieces of shells. And that's just not gonna happen. And that'd be a shame because there's plenty of So we're now gonna rely on the second physical property, density. And we're gonna try to Ideally, one of them will So let's put them in So here's a bowl of water right here. Here's all the nut meat and the shells. I'm just going to toss in a little bit and we'll see what happens. Oh, it's not looking too bad. Well, maybe. So as you can see, they So it would seem like we However, I've got a trick to show you that's still gonna make this possible. And this was the thing. This is what made me so excited to make and share this video with you. Watch this. I'm simply going to All right. Now, when we do that, you can see the shell but the nut meat is So we're gonna go outside and I'm gonna show to get out just the nut meat. This is incredible. All right, you ready for this? Here we go. First swirling. All right, I'm gonna and now we're gonna pour. Okay. So look at that. We had three little shells there, maybe four very obvious, easy to take out and the rest of it is nut meat. How amazing is that? Okay, we still have more to go. So we're gonna do one more round of that. Just swirling it. That's all there is to it. Just swirling it. Okay, swirl and pour. (water splashing) And there you have it. Look at that. So amazing. So we still have a is maybe like five, six or so, but now it's 90% At this point, and just pick it out by hand. And all done. How crazy is that? Isn't that incredible? Okay, now let me show you that it works just as well for the smaller pieces. Here's all of our smaller pieces. I'm gonna use a taller bowl for this one. Everything goes in. And in this case, we that the nut meat will sink initially and all this other stuff will float to first pour off all the other stuff and then we'll move on to the nut meat. So let me do that really quick. (sizzling) All right, rest of So now we're going to swirl. Look at that. Immediately kicks up Sorry, completely missed the frame. All right, let's see what we got there. So again, you know, we have very tiny, but we went to maybe now 90% 10. And that is All right, so now now that we have them all separated? And by the way, talking about that or anything like that. I see that in my acorn videos as well. Listen, the amount of in relation to an it's completely negligible, all right? We have to put these things Now let's move on to the next step, like raining What is going on here? Great day for processing black walnuts. Okay, so I have all of Now, obviously we're not So I've got this tray right here that I'm going to set And because we if you just leave them then they're probably gonna have a soft and chewy texture to them. If you like that, that's great. If you don't like on a dehydrator rack and they'll have And here is the final product. So with this, I usually refrigerate it. You can also freeze especially if you have a large harvest. But we're not done. Remember, this was just the second half of the forgers The first half holding and then cleaning the nuts. I have to wait for the but when it's done, it And if it hasn't, then you can subscribe for more wild food processing deep dives, just like this one. I hope to see you in the video. And if you could, with a forging friend. I truly believe that to build a deeper and discover more Thank you so much for watching.