What? You're pregnant too? Were you also the child that night? Baozhu, is this skirt too short? What do you know? The shorter the skirt The fuller the wallet But isn't this job too improper? What's so improper about this? This is selling wine, not selling body But Even if you graduate from Kyoto University One month internship only 3,000 yuan I can make thousands of dollars in one night. Don't you owe a lot of money for your father's medical treatment? If you weren't my best friend, I wouldn't tell you. Oh well Hello Mr. Fu This is Fu Yunting, the president of Fu Group. The Fu family has been a single-line family for nine generations Difficulty in having children Who can bear his child? That means the mother married into a wealthy family because of her son's status. You better stop thinking about it It is more important to make money yourself Women with no ability rely on themselves Brother Wang Okay, we'll be there soon. roll You dare to hit me Uncle, save me Mr. Fu I don't know Taishan I'll leave now It's so hot Uncle, you can't Will get pregnant I am extinct Are you pregnant with twins? That night you were taken away by Mr. Wang Didn't you run away? I was rescued, and then Then do you know who it is? I don't even know what the child's father looks like. I don't remember That's right Only this jade plaque I accidentally took it away the next day This is the Fu family heirloom jade Could it be that Lin Qian is pregnant with Fu Yunting's child? Qianqian, are you going to ask the child's father to take responsibility? He saved me. How can I hold someone responsible? Don't talk about me What's wrong with you? The woman ran away Come with me tonight It's my boyfriend's. Boy friend? When did you have a boyfriend? How come I don't know I'll introduce you guys some other day. The Child What are you going to do? It's over. I'm going to be late. Today is the day I get my internship promotion I'll tell you when I come back. Fu Group recently acquired Yuntian Group Fu Yunting, the young master of the Fu family, is appointed as the CEO of Yuntian Group Lin Qian, don't you want this opportunity to be honored as a mother? Give it to me then Wait a moment Hello Wait a minute, asshole. Is it close? close Why does this taste a bit familiar? This uncle is so handsome Have you hugged? oh Yes, yes, I'm sorry. Hello Ah, I know. Vice President Where is the woman who spent the night with you at the Dihao Club? Scumbag Vice President The girls that night were shocked She works part-time as a liquor seller at the Dihao Club So there is no login information. I just have to find it yes Guaranteed to find lady I mean to find my Fu family's ancestral feather card. Lin Qian, do you know why I asked you to become a regular employee? Because I exceeded my work goals The company recognized my professional ability wrong Because you work more overtime than others ah I see. Our company only raises werewolves Do not support idle people What we lack most now is young labor force You must cherish the opportunity I give you to become a regular employee. Don't let me down Do you know? Are you pregnant? I just found out after the physical examination. But don't worry, sir. I will work hard You've been rejected. Go to the HR department immediately and resign voluntarily Why do you work when you are pregnant? I trained you for several months in vain. Then you are a woman too Sooner or later you will get pregnant The wrong uterus will only hinder our path to ascent You either quit Or have an abortion? Our company has just been acquired by Fuji Group A bright future At this critical juncture If anyone is planning to have a baby Pack up your things and get out No one is irreplaceable now. Manager Wu, I beg you I really need it This job Our government has childbirth subsidies. I won't add burden to the company. Thunder fork comes after All female employees must submit a medical examination report before becoming regular employees Hiding the pregnancy before joining the company to defraud the company of maternity leave Immediate dismissal Go to the Human Resources Department to complete the formalities. Hey, let me go Whoever got you pregnant, who do you blame? Yang Jin wants to stay in the company to have a baby and break the door stop stop Scumbag Uncle Vice President, you are here. I'm waiting downstairs to greet you. Vice President Vice President, isn't he? This scumbag is actually my boss Lin Qian Project team intern Which university did you graduate from? Um Jinda Give me the information You are pregnant I did not hide my pregnancy test and report. I handed it over to HR a long time ago Shut up, you have no right to speak here. Don't worry, Mr. Fu I've dealt with this kind of thing a lot. I promise I won't let him become a regular employee. He will also resign voluntarily. The company doesn't need a cent You're the one who should shut up The vice president's pregnant wife is a burden to the company. I'm doing this for the good of the company. Pregnancy and career pursuit are women's rights Xiao Li was dismissed from his supervisor position Comprehensively spread the Fuji Group's values Welfare policy I don't want to see sexism anymore. Is the vice president security guard Vice President, I am really doing this for the good of the company. Mr. Huang, please say something for me. Vice President, I really do this for the good of the company. Please get a certificate for Lin Good Vice President Thank you, Vice President I will be fine Sorry, Mr. Fu I had morning sickness Mr. Fu, are you okay? Um According to authoritative research About 1% of prospective fathers will have Symptoms of morning sickness The girls that night were surprised Was it her that night? Vice President, a woman is looking for you I'm pregnant with your child It was you at the Dihao Club that night This is my second day I accidentally took the jade plate away This is indeed the Fu family's ancestral jade plaque. Congratulations Mr. Fu The Fu Group has an heir How do you prove that the child is mine? That night was my first time Give birth to the child What conditions do you want? I know I'm not worthy of you If it weren't for the baby in my belly I won't come to you I'm not that kind of material woman So what do you want? I just want the baby to have a daddy It's the old lady's phone. Hey old lady I heard that a woman came to the company to ask Yunting to take charge Congratulations, madam. The vice president has a child. Great! Give the phone to Yunting! Uh, Vice President The old lady wants you to answer the phone Hey Mom The Boy I'll take my daughter-in-law home today. But this is a notice Not a negotiation Let him pack his bags Pay now I'll go back and pack my things. The monthly salary is 10,000 Mom can now not only support you Even Aunt Baozhu's baby is not as good as you can afford Call the Director Tell the good news Ugly I'll change Lin Qian's ugly clothes when I get back. Lin Qian's child must be aborted. can't you Lao Zhu, why are you packing your luggage? Why You only wore this dress a few times before you threw it away Hey this Isn't this the dress I just bought? I spent 80 on the Internet Compensate you for these street goods If you want, I'll give you all. Anyway, this level of clothes is not suitable for me. The current hair column What's wrong with you I'm going to move to a big villa soon. He will support me in the future My boyfriend has plenty of money I will be a rich wife in the future What boyfriend? What does he do? It can't be that Mr. Wang. You can't go with him. Lin Qian, you just can't stand seeing me living better than you, right? You think you are great because you are a college student. You look down on me as a wine seller I feel like I deserve to be worse off than you in this life I'm not worthy of a good man. Baozhu, that's not what I meant. As long as you find your own happiness I will definitely be happy for you Anyway, if you encounter any problems in the future You just come back We two have a baby together. You don't plan to have an abortion Well, I plan to give birth to the baby. We can raise a child together. I've bought the abortion pills for you. Qianqian, I'm doing this for your own good. It's not easy to be a single mother. Besides, you are pregnant Which company wants you? How can you raise your children without money? Just rest assured I transferred the money The monthly salary is 10,000 yuan. Then I can raise your child together. That's right I bought two bottles of folic acid when I got off work This bottle is for you. You take it to eat good Qianqian You enter the house Can you help me see if there is anything left behind? good Continuous wife within seven days Baozhu, what are you doing? I'm going to the toilet. Get out now! My boyfriend urged me I'm leaving first Take good care of yourself. Remember to take folic acid every day Good for baby Thank you, Baozhu Hello, Madam The gangster put my daughter-in-law's things away Old Zhu, come with me This is Yunting's grandfather. Grandfather and father, the Fu family has been the only heir for nine generations. Difficulty in having children Now finally there is a future Baozhu, you are a meritorious official of the Fu family Bring up the gift I prepared for my daughter-in-law. These are for me. This is an unlimited card. Just brush Thank you, ma'am. What to call me Oh my god rogue Take Baozhu to see the room Madam, this way please What happened? Why would I feel sick for no reason? Madam Vice President This is morning sickness again. When I was pregnant with you Your dad is like that too. Ten months of pregnancy And you are thin? I'll make some sour plum soup for you and Baozhu. Need not Um, where is the jade plate? Mr. Xu I don't know Mr. Xu Hey, keep it This is my jade pendant. At your place? What jade pendant I'm here to pick it up Don't call me again if you have nothing to do. My jade token is missing. You ask me how I know Find it yourself I don't have time to tell you Oh yeah Remember to take folic acid Oh good Your godmother Baozhu still cares about me Whose phone is this? My bestie's phone number She is vain Know that I'm with you I just want to take advantage of Fu's business I will never associate with such a person again. Here, this is the sour plum soup I made myself. Drink it and you won't feel sick anymore Thank you mom mother What's wrong with you? Mom's sour plum soup Have a drink Need not Madam, why don't you react at all? Morning sickness alone Can't make any conclusions Yunting has a child I'm going to the temple to fulfill my vow You should pay more attention at home A rich family with only one son for nine generations There must be no mistakes in the offspring. I don't know I'm back. It's been over a month The child didn't sleep Listen to this yes What's wrong You usually use this idea yes What's wrong Don't come to my room anymore. Won the bid Manager Huang won the bid for the resort project Very good Who is in charge of this voting project? Manager Huang, I did it. Hahahaha, I didn't see the wrong person. This is the Yangtze River where the waves behind push the waves ahead Those who graduate from Kyoto University are top students. Experts from dozens of leading companies in the industry I actually lost to a newcomer in our company. It's incredible Hey, isn't it our manager Huang who has given us good guidance? Do you think 50 million is a joke? The winning bid was 50 million. That's a huge loss. That's what I said. How could this yellow-haired girl be so powerful? 50 million is the financial accounting of the head office Cost price is more than 60 million According to this price line The resort project is likely to lose more than NT$10 million Manager Wang You signed this bidding document. Any questions? You asked me what I had a problem with I think you are pregnant and stupid. 50 million is not even enough to cover the cost Manager Wang, I have calculated it. We won't lose money with this offer. Lin Qian, don't think that the vice president said a few good words to you. You can do whatever you want by relying on your status as a pregnant woman. Such a big accident happened at work Get out of here now What are you arguing about? Vice President Who made this tender? He is the vice president He changed the price without telling me. It really has nothing to do with me. Vice President 50 million Do you know how much you will lose? The vice president's offer of 50 million is completely profitable How can it be a joke? Vice President, I can calculate it for you. When I do reading analysis Discover The company always overspends on material losses Unable to control costs Projects worth tens of millions or hundreds of millions It's normal to have losses. We have tried many ways to solve this problem. There's no point in paying a fine. That's because the building materials are provided by our company Savings do them no good. It's none of their business. They will naturally not waste So I proposed a new subcontracting cooperation model If the contractor saves materials Get a share according to a certain ratio They will naturally have the motivation to save materials How much profit can be made 10% It is impossible to save material costs Can only ensure that the project does not lose money How is it possible to have a 10% profit? Just saving materials will not bring you 10% profit. But according to the new trade agreement released at the beginning of the month We can import wood directly from Russia Further increase profit margins Vice President, I understand this agreement. How could this happen? So this project will have a 10% profit I declare the resort Lin Qian is in charge of this project In addition, Lin Qian was promoted to assistant to the president's office. Report the truth about anything Vice President Lin Qian After all, I am still young Still a pregnant woman Vice President Vice President Vice President Good performance An important client tonight You go with me Um sorry Mr. Gu, are you okay? fine Mr. Gu You eat one first No, no, no I love to eat The club is booked at 8 o'clock tonight Mingting, I have a stomachache Why does this voice sound so familiar? Yunting, can you come back? I'm going home now Mrs This is the sour plum soup that the old lady asked me to make for you. Madam, have you had morning sickness these days? I'm tired of drinking this stuff every day You want to burn me to death I am pregnant with the heir of the retest. If you can't serve me well Believe it or not, I will fire you tomorrow What are you doing Give me Liu Ma took care of her since she was a child. My family is ignorant. Master, it's okay. I'm going to change my clothes Don't you have a stomachache? I won't feel any pain when you come back. Yunting You scared our baby. You hear my heartbeat so fast You stay with me tonight Don't do this again Affects my work This time it's a warning Save your breath next time Mr. Liu, this is a cooperation agreement. Please take a look Our vice president will be here soon Little Girl Don't talk about business at the table As long as the wine is in place Anything is fine Come I'll drink one first. ah Why I've finished drinking, it's your turn Why Mr. Liu, I can't drink. What does it mean? I finished drinking If you don't drink, your vice president is here. You can't be so disrespectful to me. Um Mr. Liu, I really can't drink. Sorry, sorry. Mr. Liu, I didn't mean it. Fuji Group has a lot of reputation. In this case Let's not talk about these businesses. Sorry Mr. Liu I didn't mean it. Don't misunderstand Don't get me wrong. Come and have a drink and I'll sign. We at Fuji Group rely on our capabilities Not a skill Yunting I was playing with the little girl. Why don't I look like that? What does it mean? With the friendship between your father and I for so many years You have to call me senior, right? Raise an army to hold the culprit accountable Uncle I laughed, I know. First to show respect I give you face I also hope you can give me a face You apologize The resort project can still be discussed I see Yunting, you are here to save the beauty, right? good I recently got a piece of Hetian jade Inexpensive Hundreds of thousands Little Girl I apologize to you. Holding Expo jokes Lin Qian is an excellent employee of our company As the boss, of course I have to He can't drink today. I'll drink with you Please forgive me after shooting Yunting, you have spoken. What can I say Expo invites waiters Bring me all the good wine I have stored here Hey, drink less. Your perfume is natural. What Why Mr. Fu, please take a seat. Isn't this the jade token I lost? Could it be that Mr. Fu was the one that night? man OK Vice President, this is my wife's phone number. Take it Vice President It's my wife's phone call. Do you answer? Hey, madam. The vice president drank too much. I'll send him back now. He is married It's okay if he doesn't remember me It was an accident Don't let him know about the baby. Liu Ma Yunting is drunk Go make a bowl of hangover soup I'll wait for him to come back. Yes, Madam, wait for the young master to come back. Do you know how to tell him? I said it was the hangover soup that my wife cooked herself. I am now pregnant with a double heir I have the final say in this family from now on If you dare to act pitiful in front of Yunting again Look how I deal with you. The vice president is home. All married Still an old scumbag I don't like men never mind Let me see Who are you I am your assistant Lin Qian You are back Don't think about leaving Yunting, open the door Ah Yunting Yunting can't To please Fu Yunting, you have to take strong medicine You bastard, open the door. I'm going to serve soup to the young master. You have a wife, old scumbag. You're still cheating I swear I Master How did you fall down? Who did this? Oh, Vice President How did you fall by yourself? Auntie, my name is Lin Xian I'm the assistant to the vice president. Help me in Too late for your message I'll ask the driver to take you home. Oh good I'm sorry The old master also had morning sickness with the old lady like this. Probably drank too much. How could Miss Lin be pregnant with the young master's child? Miss Lin's wife went to bring the sobering soup to the young master. I'll get you a bowl too. good How come Yunqian is here? Why did he spill it here? My wife is missing. Miss Yun, wait a minute. I'll serve you more, Auntie You don't have to bother. I didn't drink It's really too late I have to go bye Who is the one who brought the case back? The young master's assistant How did Lin Tian become Fu Yunpeng's assistant? tomorrow money Didn't I tell you not to come to my room? I want to clean you up Can't go out cut What you said before sounded good. You're not trying to steal my man now. A bad driver. Madam, what are you doing standing there? Hurry up and clean it up for me Good morning, Mr. Fu. Hey, have you had breakfast? Don't eat snacks That's a shame. This is Lin Qian's own handmade Very delicious Made for you by hand Well, obviously he's been rehabilitated. Thanks for helping him It seems like everyone in the office has a share. I have a copy of it when I get to my desk in the morning. Mine You're not full-time. He actually wanted to make it himself. To show respect Don't Vice President This is the resort I have already made the flow chart Anything else? oh Other information has been sent to your email. If the vice president has nothing else to tell you, I'll go out and do something. No Old scumbag The person he should thank the most for his promotion shouldn't be me. Project Inspection Okay Vice President, look I said Lin Qian prepared it specially for you Hey money money Senior I heard that the person in charge of this project is named Lin Qian I immediately took over this project with my boss. It's such a pleasure to work with you. Oh, that's right. Haven't had breakfast yet? This is the card I reserved for you. young Good match This is love Hey, Vice President, you didn't inspect me again. Qianqian, I'll take you back. Get in the car. You don't want me to work overtime, do you? Mr. Fu, it's time to get off work now Out of consideration for the commuting safety of the company's employees I'll take you there on a rainy day. Vice President, I'll just take Qianqian back. No need to trouble you. Let's have dinner together at night Okay, let's go to the old place. He is your boyfriend Hey, Vice President, please stop talking nonsense. There are many people who like the senior. How could the senior take a fancy to me? Vice President, you don't know how powerful the senior is. He is a famous figure in our school. I am Time Magazine's Person of the Year What Weekly It's an American news magazine. Senior, you are awesome! How do you know everything? Qianqian, let's go. If you go to the old place later, you will have to queue up. good Being young is good Such a vice president Sweet first love How good is it to be young? Ha ha Actually, there's nothing good about being young. Vice President An old man like you who is mature and rich This middle-aged Shut up Okay, let's drive. Senior, I'm here. Qianqian I have something to ask you What are you talking about? I have always regarded you as my brother since I was a child. I will definitely help you with your matter Will you be my girlfriend? Ah no Uh, that's it oh Hello, I want to ask you something. Are you still renting a house with your bestie from your hometown? You mean the pearl? She is pregnant She moved in with her boyfriend. But as long as she is happy, that's fine. Senior, let's meet at the company tomorrow Bye-Bye His name is Lin Qian Now he is Fu Yunting's assistant at Fu Group. He not only seduced your husband She's pregnant with your husband's child. Qianqian, what's wrong with you? I have a stomach ache What medicine are you taking? Don't take random medicine when you are pregnant It is folic acid Folic acid Why is this different from what I ate when I was pregnant? Did you buy fake medicine? How is this possible? I gave a bottle to my bestie. No, I have to call him. ah You can't do this. Go to the hospital immediately If you go too late, the child will be in danger. Go Go Go I'll help you over there. Slow down. Slow down. Hey, who are you looking for? Do you have a reservation I'll catch the third one. There are appointments It's you Vice President Not good A woman came to the company to cause trouble It is said that Lin Qian sells alcohol in the Dihao Club What he said has nose and eyes And said that on the night of July 6 Lin Qian seduces her husband to sell her body in the Dihao Club July 6th, that's not the vice president The night you and your wife had a one-night stand at the Dihao Club? Why I just said it She doesn't even have a boyfriend. How did you suddenly get pregnant? It turns out that she is pregnant with an old man's bastard. Besides, the vice president is not interested in women. And I hate women who rely on unspoken rules to get to the top the most. Clearly proven to be complete stop Who gave you the courage to fight? The House It's not your child. What's your business? How do you arrange the group? To protect this mistress and the baby in her belly Believe it or not, I will expose you Hey, Vice President Look, Sister Lin She is a bar girl who sells her body for money And keep her It will only damage the reputation of our Fuji Group. This time My child is not a bastard Hey, Vice President, please don't be fooled by him. No one has ever seen Lin Qian's boyfriend People came to the door He must be pregnant with a human My husband's bastard Who is the father of Lin Qian's child? I contacted him Come over here and explain it to me face to face You are pregnant with Lao Wang's bastard. Your colleagues at the bar told me You are the night of July 6th I got pregnant by seducing my husband at the Imperial Hotel July 6 That's not the vice president. The night you and your wife had a one-night stand at the Dihao Club? Is this the father of Sister Lin's child? Qianqian is pregnant with my child Lin QianLin QianQianQian shallow Please continue speaking I'll take you to the hospital right away. How should the Vice President handle this matter? Go to the hospital Oh, you can't go. child Floating Clouds goodbye Senior My child Qianqian The hospital did an ultrasound on you. Check if your baby has any problems The doctor said the results will be out soon. Qianqian, what's going on? You're not the kind of person who takes shortcuts. To those who have their diseases cured You don't even have a boyfriend How did you get pregnant? Did someone bully you? No, it was an accident. What accident Senior, please stop asking. Hello, Sister Qing If you don't want to tell me, I won't ask. I told them before you left You are carrying my child What senior, don't worry I'll explain it to them. Qianqian If you want No need to explain Ever since the day I saw you as a freshman I've always liked you Qianqian Will you be my girlfriend? Senior sorry You have someone you like. Is he the child's father? Who is he? I just got regular I only think about making money to support my children. I'm so busy. Where is the time for love? Sister, you have to give birth to this child. We can't have this child. Senior I Qianqian Listen to me first You are still young Don't rush to have a baby. You can't afford this child. Qianqian I really like you Wait for all opportunities later All mature All is stable Can we have another baby together? What kind of scumbag's eyes are this? Being young means you have no responsibility, right, boss? Vice President If you don't want to be the vice president, why don't you do something wrong? Let him have your child. Do you know how much harm a woman can do? Irresponsible and irresponsible You can't even support your wife and children. What kind of man is this? You are quite good at summarizing yourself. This is a private matter between me and Qianqian. You're meddling in too many matters. He is my assistant. I'll take care of his business. Vice President, you misunderstood me. He's not a senior. This is really Mr. Wang Whose child is this? The child's father died That accident Died young sister Patient Lin Qian Your ultrasound and blood test reports are out. Which one of you is the child's father? doctor Vice President You're having morning sickness again, indeed. A few expectant fathers also experience morning sickness Did you know your wife is taking the multi-birth pill? I didn't. I only took folic acid. Folic acid is in my bag. I brought you the Qianqian bag. Yes, this is it This is not folic acid This is the multiple pregnancy drug mifepristone This medicine takes effect slowly Not easy to detect Usually take it for about 7 days Will cause spontaneous abortion My child is lucky. You probably didn't take it on time. Not enough dosage 7 days one The results showed that the child was healthy Damn, keep it I bought two bottles of folic acid when I got off work This bottle is for you. You take it and eat it I bought this folic acid. My girlfriend has another bottle. She got pregnant on the same day as me. If she eats this What can I do? Call her now. Come to the hospital for B-ultrasound examination Oh ok dad Didn't I tell you not to call me if you have nothing to do? Stop taking folic acid. I'm in the hospital now Come here quickly You had a miscarriage Very good I've bought the abortion pills for you. Sister Lin, what do you say? Did you have a miscarriage? How did you know I would have a miscarriage? The four of you My favorite The four of you How could this room be like this? Madam, why are you here? I'm here to give Yunting a loving lunch My body is delicate Ever since I got pregnant I can't stand the tiredness My wrist hurts when I pick up anything Ahhh Madam, please come in. Leave him alone Mr. Cao Yunting, I made this for you. What are you doing here? This is the office place You know you're affecting other people's work. I'm the president. lady They are just a group of people working for you. I'm also afraid of the impact There is no distinction between high and low among Ye Baozhu people You've fought before. You look down on them You are looking down on your former self. Can I be like them? I'm lucky enough to be pregnant with your child. Will you support me? My assistant Lin Qian He can also do his job well. Can you be independent and self-reliant? You mean I'm not as good as Lin Qian? Think about it yourself. Xiao Li sent my father Hey Madam lady Hello, Madam I am the project manager of Fuji Group. My last name is Hu. Waiting for you here You look rich and powerful. You are smart. Please Please speak well of me in front of the vice president in the future. I heard that Yunting has a young female assistant You mean Lin Qian? I don't know why he got the vice president's disease. Even the resort project was handed over to him. She is a useless pregnant woman. Of course you are different You are pregnant with the future heir of Fuji Group. You are the big project of Fuji Group You find a way to get him to leave. I will let Lin Ting hand over the resort project to you. Otherwise, don't worry The resort project will be inspected in a few days. If something goes wrong Then Sister Lin, don't even think about staying in this company for a day It was you who replaced the folic acid with the abortion pill, right? You gave birth to a child yourself because you are not destined to be a mother. What does your miscarriage have to do with me? I didn't have a miscarriage The child was saved So what if I save it? You took the tire pills The child was born deformed. I regard you as my best friend Why are you hurting me? What is best friend or not? You just lent me money a few times. Can you let me stay in your shabby house for a few days? Don't kidnap someone here. I tell you I'm a wealthy wife now You and I are no longer on the same path Don't mention Qianqian. I don't want to mention him Don't be afraid Xiao Li immediately arranged for the best medical equipment I'll bear all the expenses. Keep your change safe Having a baby Is the vice president I let you live I let you live You were born disabled. You are a fool Why is the baby in her belly so strong? Eat so much to make the baby I'm so mad What are you looking at? Do you think I don't know that I have a bad temper? I am now pregnant with Fu Yunting's child I can destroy the entire Fu family however I want. no We must find a way to get Lin Qian to leave Fu Yunting Let everyone know Fu Yunting has a wife Is it a cake? Need not You ask for leave I have already dealt with the urgent work these days. Thank you for not delaying your work. Why don't you give me some work? No need, really. Deputy General Hospital Thanks for your help This is the cake I made Now You Know I am the person who should be thanked the most in the whole company. And this You want to resign Why I'm afraid Mr. Wang's wife will come to the company to cause trouble again. I don't want to cause trouble for you. Look back sorry sorry Don't you want to ignore me? We are embarrassed to face you yes The deputy general manager and Mr. Wang's wife have all been investigated. Her husband has been cheating on her for years Making trouble everywhere Yes, and the vice president also told us You are because of the death of the child's father I was forced to buy wine. Are you really capable? This is everyone's little thought I can't have Just take it. This is for the kids Lin Qian, don't be too sad. Trust the child's father The spirit in heaven will surely bless you. Okay The problem is that he's still alive. From yesterday to today If you don't eat it, it will go bad. Vice President Vice President, I got up at 4 o'clock this morning. I burn the first incense stick to show you the amulet You must carry it with you You asked for it specifically for me. Good people live a peaceful life Please don't let me curse you to death Old Lady You have already informed Mr. Fu that you have returned from Temple Huayuan. He'll be down to pick you up soon. I'll go up by myself What to pay The old lady came to check I'll be home soon Why don't we go to the mall and buy clothes for the babies? You don't have eyes when you walk. I didn't touch you. Don't try to touch porcelain Manager Huang, why are you so unreasonable? I just saw you driving and talking on the phone I almost hit my aunt. You don't apologize. Why do you still say that the aunt is scamming someone? Sister Yun, according to seniority, it's not your turn to teach me a lesson Unkillable Look at you wearing this tattered outfit He looks like a stinky beggar. You don't even ask whose territory this is. Just to extort money I'm the manager of Fu Group. Even three generations of your descendants combined cannot afford to offend you I'm in a hurry to see Madam Fu I don't have time for you Get out of here now cut Aunt Are you okay? girl Thank you Auntie is leaving I'll take you to the hospital. No, I'm fine. Auntie, I'll pay. This one This is the love red envelope my colleagues gave me today. I was planning to buy clothes for the kids. But I'll leave it for you to check. It's also a kind gesture. You are pregnant Yeah, it's been two months. This belly looks like it's 3 months old twin It's great that our family has only one son for nine generations. Difficulty in having children If my son could have twins I wake up laughing in my dreams Auntie, let me take you to get checked. Really no need My son works at Fuji Group. He'll be down soon. You should keep this red envelope to buy clothes for the children. You go quickly I won't waste your time. Auntie, I'm leaving first. You stinky beggar Why don't you go away? mom Old old lady Whose territory is this? Madam, I just wanted to know that it was you Even if you give me 800 poisons, I still wouldn't dare to do that. dad What's going on He almost hit me. But he relied on the power of my Fu family to bully others Lin Ting, how did you choose someone? Be a good person first, then do things Such a mean person who flatters the powerful and takes advantage of the weak Is he qualified to be the manager of Fuji Group? Xiao Li notified the Human Resources Department to process his resignation Yes hey hey Madam, I have worked for the company for so many years. Even if he has no credit, he has worked hard. I built this business together with the old vice president. I am the former vice president One-handed ball Please give me another chance Just give him another chance. Yunting, you decide. Jiang Wen's father will resign if it happens again Mom, I'm waiting in the refrigerator. A little girl helped me just now I'm going to the mall in front to find her Our Fu family will repay a favor. Okay, I'll go get busy. I'll find you after I'm done Baozhu, you have become different from before I can hardly recognize you. You can't recognize me or you are too inferior to recognize me A few days ago, Mrs. Wang came to the company to cause trouble. I think about it You are the mistress he is looking for, right? You lied to me about my boyfriend. You are pregnant with Mr. Wang's child. Shut up Is money that important? If you do this, you will Have you sold it? One day you will regret it. I regret it now. I regret not having a son sooner Becoming a wealthy wife How can you be so spineless? Do you have to rely on men to be a mistress? Bones are useful Will my mother let me shop at the mall? This is an unlimited black card. You haven't seen it? And these luxury goods You can't afford it even if you work all your life Yes, there are children My children are born to win at the starting line. Your children will be just like you. Always the bottom Don't block my way. Mrs. Gu The total price of all the new styles you want this season is 280,000 The refreshments in the VIP room are ready. You go in first Wait a minute, I will pack everything for you right away Hello, is anyone there? How much discount is there on clothes here? Clear the place for me What grade Follow me to a store Sorry, Mrs. Fu I'll drive him away right away. Can you afford it? Just ask us if this is a famous brand. Not a street stall We are a famous brand here Not a street stall I'm asking because I really want to buy it. How can you talk like this? This isn't the place for you. You wear these twenty or thirty yuan street stall goods This does not fit the customer positioning of our store. This isn't the place for you. You don't deserve to be received by me. If you can't afford it, get out now Don't waste my time Who said he couldn't afford it? Auntie, why are you here? How did he know Changqian? The customer is God What's your attitude? Money is God Do you have money? We are here But it is a high-end shopping mall under Fuji Group This is not a place for poor people like you to come. How do you know I can't afford it? You guys see clearly? This dress costs 18,000 yuan This is a season discount item in our store. People like you at the bottom of society won't be able to afford it in your next life. 18,000 per bottle The milk powder cost only 350 yuan This is enough for me to buy 50 bottles. Auntie, this store is too dark Not worth it at all let's go Poor indeed. I'll buy you some children's clothes. I want two of each style. Old woman, money is not something you talk about. If you really have it, take it out and let me see it. Yo yo yo yo This hasn't been asked for yet, has it? Get out of here! Go outside under the bridge That place is more suitable for beggars like you. Open your eyes and see what this is This is Fuji Bank's unlimited black card. There are less than 10 people in the world who have this card. Those who have this card are either rich or noble All of them are big shots from Fuji Group. How could you possibly have that? Auntie, didn't you say Does your son work for Fuji Group? You can get unlimited black cards when you go to work So do I have a chance? He was a part-time worker. I thought he was some big shot. I think your card is fake too. The poorer you are, the more you can get away with it. Crazy babe Get out of here! Call your manager out. I want to complain to you Who wants to complain about you? manager These two poor guys can't afford it and are still making trouble here I still have time to wait for me in the VIP area The old lady respects the clothes first and then the people How come this is your Fuji Group? Is this the hospitality of the mall? Sorry, sorry. Our store clerks have poor service attitude. We'll leave immediately. To apologize We offer free single To express our apologies and attitude Free of charge Aunt We are so lucky today. Can I have this dress? Can I have two? I am a twin sure Wrap it up for you right away Don't go soon Wait, I was talking about all the children's clothing in the mall. Two pieces of each style Auntie, please stop talking. People won't agree. They will regret it soon. Uh, I agree. Two pieces of each This is how we can show the sincerity of our apology. And this is a maternity and baby store The store clerk actually hit the pregnant woman How are you going to handle this matter? What You were fired Manager, I really didn't mean it. It's Master Fu's wife. He asked me to clear the place He said this customer was too low class I don't deserve to go to the same store with him. Mrs. Fu also used a black card I dare not offend You are talking about the wife of Fu Yunting, the president of Fuji Group. nonsense Who is Mrs. Fu? With his education How could someone do such an unethical thing? What I said is true Mrs. Fu is in the store now. Oh, no, no Auntie, I'm not helping you for anything in return. I got free compensation. Don't offend anyone for my sake. You have a broad mind Three positive values and a kind heart Who is so lucky to marry such a good wife like you? It's really enviable Even if you don't care, I still have to compensate you. this This one, this one And this one No other Get me one in his size. Do you need to try it? Of course you have to try swiping your card Your supplementary card spending is 968,000 Vice President The old lady is in this store The one next to the old lady Why does it look like Lin Qian? Wait a minute, we will prepare it for you Don't try, auntie. Please withdraw immediately. Your money doesn't come from the wind. You have to keep it for retirement. You don't have to worry about me It's my son's money. Auntie, you can't do this. Your son is also an office worker. They only get a dead salary. The money spent It's the water that flows out. If you keep spending like this, you will run out of money sooner or later. mom Vice President Where is Mrs. Fu? He was just here. Everyone was outside just now How can Mrs. Fu teleport or become invisible? Disappeared right before everyone's eyes Maybe he left through the back door. I see you I think my life is too long. You dare to tell such a lie? Manager, I really didn't lie. Mrs. Fu also used a black card I have bank receipts Go get it mom Where are you Mom, I'm at home. Let Liu Ma answer the phone I have something to do with her Liu Ma, Liu Ma, are you there? Liu Ma may have gone out to buy groceries Mom, you came back from the temple today. I specifically asked Aunt Liu to prepare your favorite dishes. snort Fortunately, I run fast Girl, if it's convenient for you tonight, come home with me for dinner. You've done me a favor Now you are being bullied I won't sit back and do nothing. I will make the person who bullied you apologize to you in person. You are This is my son Fu Yunting You know Lin Qian is my assistant Ah, this store is owned by our Fuji Group. The more you buy The more I earn You thought I was going to be broke? Ha ha Vice President, how could you possibly be penniless? You are a source of wealth snort Evil capitalism The clothes you want to try on are ready. The dressing room is over here. Auntie, I won't try. I lost my pregnancy figure Wearing the same thing They don't look good anyway. Who says pregnant women should be sloppy? Pregnant women also have the right to pursue beauty It has to be this Does it look good? This one looks the best. Is it Lin Ting? Pretty Since you don't want to go home with me for dinner tonight Then we'll eat out tonight. You've done me a favor You should let Yinting treat you to a meal to express your gratitude Old Lady My wife prepared dinner at home today. I just called to ask When will you and the vice president arrive home? I am old But I'm not deaf or blind yet I can still hear clearly whether he is telling the truth or a lie You tell him that Yunting and I are having dinner out tonight Let him reflect on himself at home. What did I do wrong today? Eat more shrimp to supplement protein Good for children sorry I have morning sickness I'm going to the bathroom. Deputy Vice President Deputy President This Lin Qian spit You vomit again You are so stubborn that you make others vomit You mean they had morning sickness together more than once? Yes How could it be such a coincidence? Madam, don't wait. The old lady and the young master have already eaten outside. Why are you dissatisfied with me? Why do I have to reflect on myself like this? Where did I go wrong? I gave birth to a child at home They should hold me and coax me Mrs This is too late to clean up What if the old lady and the young master come back and see what's going on? Look at these injuries. What did you do to the gangsters? I have no idea He hit it himself. Rogue, you say I didn't take good care of my wife. Have I ever told you Rogues are family Let me show you some respect You respect her so much. Yunting, I don't know what happened to me. I didn't even argue with others when I got married. Since I got pregnant with your child I can no longer control my emotions I dare not tell you I come from a bad background I was never worthy of you I'm afraid you'll dislike me My Fu family doesn't care about the background of the daughter-in-law when choosing a daughter-in-law It's your character. You rely on my status as the daughter-in-law of the Fu family. Acting arrogantly at home and outside My Fu family has a century-old family tradition I can't marry a daughter-in-law like this Mom, I was wrong. Just for the sake of the baby in my belly Forgive me this time. The Fu family has been a single-line family for nine generations I am pregnant with the only heir of the Fu family. go Bring me the black card I gave you. Together This is the black card you gave me. Apologize to Liu Ma Sorry, Mama Liu Don't be angry I'm pregnant too. You go back to your room first. Don't go out until the baby is born. yes If it wasn't because he was pregnant with Yunting's child I have to kick him out today. It's our Fu family who's sorry for you. Don't say that, ma'am. Why You don't know I met Yunting's assistant Lin Qian today I really like that girl. Kindhearted You can tell you're blessed at first glance. Pregnant with twins I really want to change my daughter-in-law I have met Lin Qian once. There is one thing One time I saw him carrying soil with the young master Just like you and the old man back then Is there any Naye Pearl? Next time you go to the doctor for a prenatal checkup Let him give the baby in Ye Baozhu's belly Do a prenatal paternity test with Yunting Before the results come out Don't tell anyone Lin Qian, all of this belongs to me Don't try to steal it. That old immortal What did you say to Liu Ma? Didn't you say there was a way to get Lincoln out of office? How long should I wait? Madam, don't worry. Tomorrow is the construction materials for the Dujia Village project Just wait for good news. Then send me the address for tomorrow. I want to see him make a fool of himself in public. Lin Qian, you are so beautiful Yes, Lin Qian I didn't expect you to look so good while pregnant. I think you are the most beautiful girl in the company. Vice President This resort ribbon-cutting project It is very important for us to retest and lose No fatigue allowed in anything How are the arrangements afterwards? Vice President, rest assured I have already made an appointment with the studio of Tianhou Xining Oops. I'll be there soon. Tian Hou Xining Can't come What's going on? Xilin's agent told me Our company notified us that the performance will be held next month. They have already flown abroad. They said our company notified the performance time Next month's people are change How is this possible? How is this possible? The email I sent to Qilin Studio I checked it over and over again I notified you today. Qilin Studio You are the only one responsible from beginning to end Now the project has problems You want to shirk responsibility How to be a project leader Lin Qian, let me see what you will do this time What's wrong What happened? Yunting, this time our cooperation The entire business community is watching If something goes wrong The stocks of both companies will be greatly affected. Master, don't worry. I guarantee that you will be the one cutting the ribbon How much is this question in my name? In my entanglement What is the Queen's Spirit not coming? How do you do things? 10 minutes left The ribbon cutting begins It's too late to change now. Uncle, please listen to my explanation. I participated in a singing competition when I was in school Won the top ten singers Why don't you just let me come? Meijie People come to see the stars. You're a pregnant woman with a big belly. Our Fuji Group is so embarrassed that it has become a hot topic. But there is no other way. It's better than letting the show go blank. What's more, I am the person in charge of this project. I'm pregnant again If I perform It will be more topical Such an important project Something went wrong Who dares to let you go? I dare Hey, are you guys still filming? The wait is too long. Good morning everyone. The show is about to begin Brother Yunting and I came here specially to support you. Where are you on this field? I didn't expect you, the proud son of heaven, Fu Yunting There are also people who are laughed at by everyone It's rare to see it once in a lifetime The show is already 10 minutes past. Yunting, I tell you If there are any problems during this ribbon cutting The person in charge of the resort must be changed Otherwise, pause Mr. Zhu, young people nowadays Doing things is unreliable What's more, Lin Qian is pregnant I know this pregnant woman. Do things as you think. Directly boasting on emotion At this moment, he must be too scared to go on stage. Hello Mr. Liu It's great that I can be so beautiful even when I'm pregnant Yunting Where did you find such a beautiful girl? This is a newly debuted star, right? She is my personal assistant. assistant Yunting I fell in love with her at first sight Why don't you introduce it to me? He can't good Vice President, I didn't embarrass you, did I? What do you think? sorry I knew you could sing so well. Which singer should I invite? Good performance Double the year-end bonus Thank you very much, Vice President Wow Diva My heart likes your singing little beauty You are trending Have dinner together in the evening I celebrate for you Who do I have a date with tonight? Boy friend Uh, not just friends. Resort project He helped me a lot. I plan to treat him to dinner tonight after the ribbon-cutting ceremony. You have a conscience Yunting night I have made an appointment with several people who are responsible for resort projects. Big boss, you have to come with me. Sorry, Master. I have an important trip tonight. money Senior Senior This guy actually got there first. This is what you meant by driving Lin Qian away I came to see him make a fool of himself. Not because he's showing off. Ma'am, I didn't expect that either. Lin Qian dared to sing on stage even though he was pregnant Useless things Now we must hold on to it Fu Yunting Yunting Which environment do you touch tonight? Give me the room card Fu Yunting can't get your heart I want your people too. Why are you here? I'm worried about you You drink alone I'm afraid you won't have anyone to take care of you. Have a drink of water Just come by yourself I'll let Xiao Li take you back. Wenting, what's wrong with you? Wen Ting fine Vice President, are you asleep? The deputy general manager's press release has been written. Your signature is required Coming soon Mr. Fu, this is What's wrong? Really not into women Fortunately, Fu Yunting didn't know that I slept with her. Do you need help? Do you need help? Don't come over here. Then you can do as you please Lin Ting, are you not good enough? Vice President Been busy for so long I'm dying of thirst. I didn't even drink water. spa Wake up Better shape than before Do you know who I am? I know you are the father of my child. how can i be sure Is this my home? How did I get back last night? How come you don't remember anything? You woke up Fu Zong Remember what happened last night? The society was caught red-handed I slept with Fu Yunting again Uh, Vice President Nothing happened between us last night, right? What do you think? This is I didn't expect there are mosquitoes in this five-star hotel. I'm going to buy some floral water These are what you want How dare you do it but not watch it? Do you want me to help you recall what you did last night? ah Need not Someone spiked the glass of water you drank last night. After you drank it, you hugged me and nibbled and bit me Relax I bit these. Good teeth Then nothing happened between us last night I, Fu Yunting, never take advantage of others. You did it and you forgot What's your expression? I don't believe it. No Or because nothing happened last night? Makes you disappointed How is it possible? Vice President, you have a wife. Your wife is pregnant I, Lin Qian, would never like a married woman. What if I told you no What do you mean? Qianqian I If you abandon your wife and children You must not be a good husband. A good father After I return, I will hand over my work and leave. What did you do last night? Nothing happened to us last night What do you call this? No fever Do you want to ask yourself what you did? If it weren't for your bad behavior Put drugs in the water Take care of this life Fu Yuntian I What happened to me drugging you? I have lived in your husband's house for so many days You never touch me I drugged you to improve our relationship It's not to get you involved with change. Fu Yuntian, please figure it out. I am your wife Youth is you to dogs We are not married You are not my wife Yunting, I'm sorry. I am pregnant I lose my temper because I feel insecure. You are so nice I'm afraid of losing you I won't marry you Marital discord Not conducive to the growth of children You have bad conduct He won't be a good father. Wait until your child is born and leave the Fu family I'll give you some money Ensure you have enough food and clothing Yunting, I was wrong. The child can't live without a mother Give me another chance I will definitely perform well You will definitely like me I already have someone I like Who do you like? Your assistant Lin Qian That's right How is he better than me? A thousand times, ten thousand times better than you What I can't get You don't even want to Lin Qian, you really want to resign Thank you for taking care of me during this time. Is it because of the performance? Isn't it all solved? Tengu's new girlfriend comes on stage She went on stage with a pregnant woman Can it be the same? Such a big mess Waiting for the company to ship the goods and ask you to pay compensation Get out of here! Sister Lin How about we go and ask the vice president for help? He seduced the vice president Offended the Vice President's wife It's no use for him to listen to my plea. Thank you all I'm resigning on my own. I have no relationship with the vice president. You don't have to ask the vice president for me. Vice President You think it over I'm no longer fit to stay here Do you really want to let Lin Qian go? She is a pregnant woman Where can she go? Vice President, have you ever heard of leaving? Do you actually want to be retained? She wants to go If you can, stay here. You don't have that ability I didn't send anyone to follow him. Report anything immediately. Hey shallow So what are you going to do next? Find another job first. I saved some money. Enough for me to have a baby. You don't plan to go home. Since my dad passed away in high school I no longer have a home My stepmother doesn't care about me at all Only ask me for money I ran away from home I'm done if I go back He will kill me and the baby. Qianqian Don't handle anything by yourself. Senior, I'm fine. Qianqian, I have a business trip for a project next. Do you have any other friends here that you can contact? Oh, that's right. Where is your best friend Ye Baozhu from your hometown? I haven't been in touch with him for a long time. I hope we are all well. Can you live the life you want? very nice Oh my god This is the car Ouch me Oh my god Isn't this the precious pearl of the old Ye family? When did you become so advanced? Mom drives such a nice car Oops! When can I make such a good car? Auntie, you don't know yet. Apparently he is working at Fuji Group now. The monthly salary is over 10,000 yuan. You find him for you You said it's true Don't mention this class. I raised him this big. Look, he ran away after taking the college entrance exam. I want to know what he is like now It would be better to sell him after his father dies. Auntie, marry Sister Lin off Isn't the betrothal money yours? Du Biyan Ai Baozhu Do you know a man who can afford the high price? Ah Baozhu said that Lin Quan lives at this address Take your sister back. Baozhu introduces the old man lying on the bed Let him marry 800,000, son, we'll be rich, hahaha Who is it? you How come? Come back with me and get married Where are you running to What marriage I won't go back with you. Mom, my sister went to college. Learn to resist What are you going to do? Hahaha Lin Qian I heard you're working at Copy Group now. Monthly salary of tens of thousands Okay, you don't want to get married. You just need to sign a guarantee Promise to give me and my mother 20,000 yuan per month I agree that you don't sign You dream that I will never be like when I was a kid again I'll let you beat and scold me. I'll tell you if you want to leave You dare to fight me? I'll call the police I won't go back with you to get married. Lin Qian, I raised you I just want to exchange the gift Don't think you're ready just because you finish college. You want to fly away, right? Even if you dream you have to marry Marry or Not I am pregnant Where is Ye Baozhu? The old lady is out. Liu Ma didn't stop her Liu Ma went to the hospital The results of the old lady's prenatal paternity test are out Ye Baozhu is not pregnant with the young master's child What happened to mom? See for yourself The Fu family has only one heir for nine generations How could you make a mistake about something so important? But How did Ye Baozhu get the vice president's family heirloom jade pendant? Hello Hello Something happened to Lin Jian Someone check my address for me Hello HR Check employee profile now Tell me Lin Qian's address Li Dezhu's address has been sent to your phone. Did the vice president find out? Lin Qian's address This is the place where you asked me to pick up Ye Baozhu. Do they know each other? Lin Qian is also pregnant My father-in-law is about the same age Even the morning sickness reaction is similar to Yunting Take care Auntie, the 800,000 yuan betrothal gift is ready Take the change back and get married. Okay, I'll take him back now, hurry up. return Get him back. To avoid any more nightmares The child will kill him when he gets back. Even if you catch me back once a hundred times I'll run back again. stop He he he he he woman boat ah I see Mr. Fu, is this woman spreading rumors outside? Pregnant with your child This is what shocked you. Mr. Fu, don't worry. I, I, we will keep him under custody Don't let him go out. I don't want to find you anymore But they want to abort my child Let you pay back for half your life Why did Lin Ting come to save Lin Qian? Does she know everything? Dare to touch the rich lady I think you guys don't want to die. Could it be that Lin Qian is pregnant with a woman's child? I don't understand what you're saying. How much did you beat the lady? I will pay you back a hundred times Hey hey hey don't don't don't child The child is fine Why don't you tell What am I I am the father of the child How is this possible? I am talking nonsense Besides, I am here because you are rich and powerful. Thinking that as long as I say the child is yours They definitely wouldn't dare to do anything to me. How is it possible? What a coincidence It doesn't matter if it's not mine Qianqian I've thought it through. I like you I can be the father of your baby. I will treat them as my own. Dedicated to you You still accept What are you talking about? Your wife is pregnant I am not married Pregnant but not married He is indeed a scumbag That's not my child either. ah Yeah, I was greened. Things are not what you think months ago I had an abusive relationship with him at the Imperial Hotel He holds the jade token I attached She lied that she was pregnant with my child. Jade Plate Only this jade I accidentally took it away the next day Is that the woman you're talking about? It doesn't matter who he is now. You just need to know that we are not married and have no children You don't have to worry about the future We have our own children Will be partial I am not private The child I am carrying is yours. I was in the presidential suite of the Imperial Hotel on July 6th Mr. Wang gave me medicine You saved me the next day I accidentally took your jade token It was really you that night Then why is the jade token in his possession? The person you are talking about is Mrs mom You stole my things. Where do you want to go? Mom, this box is full of clothes. I just miss home. I want to go home and stay for a few days Mom, you gave me these. I prepared these for my daughter-in-law. I pay for my home Don't take anything away. Mom, what do you mean? I am pregnant with Yunting's child He is the heir of the Fu family I worked so hard to give birth to a child for your Fu family. How could you do this to me? Don't call me mom The baby in your belly is not Yunting's baby at all. It's really you Yunting, Lin Qian is lying to you She is just jealous of me marrying into a wealthy family She wants to take you away From childhood to adulthood I consider you my best friend You're doing better than anyone else. I am happier than anyone else How could I be jealous of you? Stop being so hypocritical. Yunting, the child I am pregnant with is yours. You have to believe me, Yunting Take a look What's this This is not true This is the policeman of the civil rights bandit He wants to kill me and our child. The vice president brought Mr. Wang vice The vice president is you. You drugged Lin Qian at the Imperial Hotel, right? Not mine It's Ye Baozhu It was him who told me that he wanted to introduce me to a chef. And took my money Why What I want is what he ordered Besides, you took the change that day too. I didn't do anything You are talking nonsense Don't think I don't know You even told my wife that you were the mistress. You don't want to kill me You know why you want to hurt me No one for himself Heaven and Earth Destruction What are you taking? Why? In the past I hate your innocent look the most. Why does everyone like you? How am I inferior to you? I have something to tell you Even your stepmother and Lin Yaozu were brought here by me. I Almost I can look at you Marry an old, greedy man Seeing you live a worse life than me Hey, wife, why are you here? The vice president will follow your instructions Tell Mr. Wang the truth of the matter lady Sweet rescue me Sweetie, don't go. Sweet I prepared these again. A gift for the future daughter-in-law It looks like the month is getting older You and Yunting must hurry up If you don't get married, the baby will be born. I'm going to the bathroom That's not right, the vice president didn't vomit. He is shy. Mom, you're too anxious. I haven't proposed to Qianqian yet. Qianqian is such a beautiful girl She can marry you That's the blessing you earned in your previous life. Can I not be anxious? You think you are a delicious bun What do they want from you? You are older Old Lady Our vice president is at the top of the Forbes list The number one diamond king in the past 10 years I haven't found a wife in fifty years. I'm so embarrassed to bring it up. I don't care You must get the money back to me within one month. I'm not doing well now. I'll go up first Come back in ten minutes. Hey, qinqinqinqin Vice President, please bend down. Don't let anyone see it. Am I so ashamed to face people? Hi Deputy General Manager I don't want to make it public now What does this mean? This means you are still in the probation period. Ah, it's not certain whether this will turn into a positive one. Vice President, I advise you to be careful with your words and actions now. Drive to buy a ring Sister Li, you are back. Very good It was an accident during the ribbon-cutting ceremony in the village. Deputy Fang has come to discuss compensation with you, right? Lin Qian, I contacted the Mind Studio They sent it to me. Screenshot of the email notifying the project of the change of booking Fajian's IP address is the company computer Did you see it was posted by you? I'm not in the company at this time. You still want to shirk responsibility when something goes wrong, right? Apart from Who else can you use your computer to send emails to? What to do then Do you really need change? Lost money. She was pregnant and lost her job. Are you going to push her to the edge? A pregnant woman A rookie How dare they rob a resort as big as this? This is the result of overestimating one's own abilities It's you You are the project manager You have permission Thoroughly check each of our computer and email passwords And the Queen's Heart performance is kept secret I sent an email to his agent. Just copy you and the vice president I'll tell the vice president. Sister Li Until now I'll let you die clearly. Do you know who you offended? That's right. I sent the email But it was the vice president's wife who asked me to post it. Ye Baozhu is you again You are a powerless pregnant woman. Offended the Vice President's wife Do you think the vice president will still stand by you? Stop dreaming You are not the vice president's wife. You are not pregnant with the vice president's child. He is my wife. He is my wife. The child he is carrying is my child Didn't you say you wouldn't come back yet? Now this time I don't want war anymore What am I? How is it possible? What's wrong? Do you think I'm not worthy of you? No, then you think he is not pregnant with me. No no no no it's not me Fu Yunting No, no, no I see you don't want to do it anymore Three times the limit You have repeatedly used people with seniority and high positions. Taking advantage of one's position to cause undue tension Even regardless of the interests of the company Xiao Li notified the Human Resources Department to fire him And sued him for the resort's losses, right? Vice President, please give me another chance Come to security Sister Li Li is not Vice President's Wife Please give me another chance Give me another chance Give me back Not giving me another chance Come back soon go out Why Sister Lin, are you really the vice president's wife? return It's not him Now you are examining me The one who came to the company before was I, Fu Yunting, have only had Qianqian from beginning to end. It was before and it is now It will be in the future Shallow will you marry me will you marry me Didn't you say to keep a low profile? How can I not be low-key? You call this low-key Madam, obey the past That's the plan. It's the proposal of the century. That guy is the most searched Then I live broadcast on the big screen in Times Square Just find a bunch of men to fuck Okay, stop talking. You are too low-key It's you Qianqian I will be a good husband and a good father. Would you like to I do Kiss one kiss one kiss one kiss one Kiss one kiss one oh Hey, Vice President! You're having morning sickness again. Excuse me, I need to go to the bathroom. Ouch Ouch! Ouch! Slow down, hold on. The baby is due in a few months. Vice President, hold on! The baby is coming soon Ahhh Mrs. Fu gave birth It's a pair of twins. Thank you for the blessing of the rich ancestors doctor What happened to Madam? Both mother and child are ill Doctor, what else is in the pregnant woman's belly? oops doctor The vice president can't hold on any longer. Born The triplets of the Fu family are the only descendants of the family for nine generations. Many children bring blessings Qianqian is the lucky star of my Fu family praise Praise or not