On these African plains some 60,000 years A trek that would ultimately give rise to modern a miracle that we've progressed as far as of time. It's really not that difficult to sparse across the universe given how absurdly gone wrong along the way and so many times On the morning of the 12th of August, 1883, the Sun when numerous UFOs began to sweep by a coronal haze and left behind a trailing days and Bonilla counted 447 objects in total. were simply dismissed as birds, insects, or But based upon Bonilla's description of the event astronomical phenomena, an article published fragments of a comet nearly colliding with that leave trails and are surrounded by a comet observed in 2006, we now know that that the comet broke into more than 3,200 meters in diameter and sailed past the earth kilometers. Had only one of these fragments in millions of casualties. Had all or at least the Earth, we're looking at an extinction It's the middle of the Siberian taiga, around up the sky. An eyewitness 65 kilometers away &quot;...the sky split in two and fire appeared high and wide hot that I couldn't bear it, as if my shirt and throw it down but then the sky shut closed. A strong Two decades later in 1927, the first expedition to Some 2000 km2 of forest, some fattened by the event. The broad consensus is that exploded a few kilometers above ground and produced a fireball as demonstrated in this simulation. Transposed over New York City its [Edward Lu] Over Tunguska, the one that was slightly larger. Let's say New York City, we would have At least, whatever the population of New York City is, they would be gone. [Bill Nelson] While the two bombs dropped on Japan marked a of an entirely new kind of fear. A fear of We make mistakes. And knowing this, coupled result in apocalyptic levels of destruction, by nature, this new kind of fear was undeniably In early October of 1960 a new early warning In the event that the Soviet Union should a level 5 warning would be sent to the command the number on the display suddenly changed object had been detected. A bit strange but number continued to climb until a level 5 missiles would strike the United States in its way up the chain of command and a slight the realization that Nikita Khrushchev, leader visiting the United States. Not exactly where 20 minutes passed and the value of investigation revealed that the base on Greenland had In the early morning of January the 24th, hydrogen bombs crashed into an empty field quickly issued a report stating that there no danger of a nuclear explosion or radiation. 2013, reveal that one of the two bombs actually Three out of four safety switches erroneously the slight separation of two wires was the explosion. Had this 3.8 Mt bomb detonated, the radioactive fallout could've reached Washington, In the early 1960s, tensions between the US point and culminated in a situation known the closest we've ever come to committing installed nuclear missiles near the Soviet the Soviet Union installed nuclear missiles The US would have none of that. &quot;Hey, you said the United States. &quot;I don't know what I'm paraphrasing of course as these While the impasse in and of itself one specific event stands out. After the US from exporting even more missiles to Cuba, shores. In an attempt to force the submarine chat, multiple US naval destroyers dropped to surface. However, the captain of the submarine his men to retaliate against one of the US Fortunately, one of the two senior officers and eventually managed to convince him that Moscow. And that's exactly what they did and On May the 23rd, 1967, all of the early warning In fact, all manner of military simultaneously and it was interpreted as intentional scrambled and prepared to launch an attack. But as luck military had begun observing solar activity day in 1967, the Sun had ejected a powerful knocked out military defenses and other equipment. studying the Sun been delayed for just a few interference in time to In the mid 1980s squadrons of US aircrafts thus triggering their early warning systems, A form of psychological warfare that kept early hours of September the 26th, 1983, the by the sound of an alarm. An intercontinental the US and was now heading towards the Soviet the Americans it was standard procedure to now up to the man in charge, Stanislav Petrov, that a nuclear attack was imminent. A few were detected. However, Petrov decided to He reasoned that if the United States were to of missiles, not just a few. In other words, But as he had no way of confirming his suspicions, Fortunately, Petrov was correct in his assumption breathing and a subsequent investigation revealed clouds, was responsible for the anomaly. On March the 31st, 1989, two American astronomers a 300 meters wide asteroid had come close enough to pose any risk of impact and still worth a mention as it passed through a mere six hours prior. Which is in and of An impact with an asteroid of this a radius of 60-75 kilometers. Superimposed it looks like it would've been a rough day. Some of you may remember that a few years that the world would end in 2012. While the rotation of this globe, we did narrowly escape 23rd of July the Sun expelled something known A CME is a release of large quantities of it can cause some serious damage to any and This was also one of the most powerful And it blasted straight through the Earth's orbit. Luckily for us, the Earth was on the due to the rotation of the Sun, had this eruption engulfed by that storm. If that had happened, next 10 years, it could've taken us as much to overstate the ramifications of a CME on take weeks, months, or even years to resolve. Electronic equipment of all kinds would cease Medical, transportational, financial, military, national all be compromised or destroyed. Society would ...and be literally plunged Given how dependent we've become like the internet, it's difficult to image not have been the end of the world but it Declassified documents reveal that the US with nuclear weapons since the 1950s. Over was just narrowly avoided. And who knows how experienced or any of the other nuclear weapon of natural events, it is truly a miracle that