[MUSIC PLAYING] SARAH HARRIS: The first thing to India is a sense of While some people are still railway lines and eating from are drinking Frappuccinos and Along with this feeling of there's still this undercurrent religion and superstition and an caste system. I didn't realize quite how sharp new and old India were until research an article about And on my very first day here, prostitutes who told me about where prepubescent girls are for the rest of their lives, the temple. The name of that system This train's a little bit like we have cockroaches sleeping And there's no one serving Hello. So in the beginning, being a with prostitution. In medieval India, they were held high social status. They performed sacred religious for loyalty in the name of a Over the centuries, the link their temples gradually social status. They became the paid mistresses kings, and later, In the 19th century, Western the tradition, calling it the devadasis underground. Today, devadasis are no hookers, servicing drunk truck Even though the practice has years, up to 3,000 girls are every year. We traveled to the border town two southern Indian states of Its red light district is home workers, and that afternoon, Anitha, one of its most She's a member of an NGO called to empower locals sex workers. Communication was pretty Somashekar was having some Everybody in the houses this whole street-- is also sex workers Yes. SARAH HARRIS: So all And they're all friends Everybody is friends? SARAH HARRIS: So when the door closes. And this-- SARAH HARRIS: She's She is also a sex worker? SOMASHEKAR: A sex worker. SARAH HARRIS: And she SOMASHEKAR: [SPEAKING MARATHI] [SARAH LAUGHING] SOMASHEKAR: That's another one lying in there. Hello. SARAH HARRIS: This is SOMASHEKAR: I am. SARAH HARRIS: You. SARAH HARRIS: Tell me again. So are you talking as you? Are you telling me-- Somashekar. SOMASHEKAR: Huh? SARAH HARRIS: So you SOMASHEKAR: I am a sex worker. SARAH HARRIS: You are And you came to Anitha's SARAH HARRIS: Yeah. SARAH HARRIS: You work in works in this room. SOMASHEKAR: This room. SARAH HARRIS: So you OK. [SPEAKING MARATHI] SARAH HARRIS: The whole place what I thought it would be. I kind of imagined these hotel-looking brothels. And actually, there's kids There's women doing their And it kind of feels tight-knit little community. The ladies of Sangli wouldn't me the temple around It seemed like wherever there Yellamma was never far away. For Anitha and her friends, to be ashamed of. Sex work was their choice. They had condoms, power in after them. But these were just For the vast majority prostitution isn't a choice. It's forced upon them, and most Like most Hindu legends, the is long, convoluted, However many times we didn't make much sense. But it seems to go something The whole ordeal begins when her head off by her husband after people getting frisky After a complex process of load of fat Hindu gods with blue the goddess Yellamma was born. She fled to the villages of of worship for the lowest So after a really sweaty 10-hour finally arrived in this up in Northern Karnataka. And it's in the villages around told has the highest women in India. An estimated 23,000 women in dedicated to the goddess. And roughly half of those will order to feed their families. SARAH HARRIS: We traveled to transit town to meet two [SPEAKING KANNADA] SARAH HARRIS: Madigas are polluting and are only permitted lowliest positions, as street and of course, prostitutes. When we took the girls out terrified of the higher castes which they did. [SPEAKING KANNADA] SARAH HARRIS: It was surreal to The shopkeepers wouldn't even [SPEAKING KANNADA] SARAH HARRIS: So now it seems a justification for pimp out their daughters. [SPEAKING KANNADA] SARAH HARRIS: It was strange on the floor of their one room place where she has sex with and sisters wait outside. BALAVVA: [SPEAKING KANNADA] [SPEAKING KANNADA] SARAH HARRIS: Karnataka is one of sugar cane. Hundreds of trucks pass like this every day. The roadside can be Horny drivers and bored here, looking for ways They are one of the main India, spreading the virus extensive road network, putting Belavva at risk of this SARAH HARRIS: Back in Sangli, another devadasi called Pandu. We were told she was different, prepared for just [MALE SPEAKING MARATHI] SARAH HARRIS: Every morning, he brass Yellamma statues and [SPEAKING MARATHI] SARAH HARRIS: Can you ask him Tea powder. Wow, that's a lot of sugar. Fucking hell. [SARAH LAUGHING] SARAH HARRIS: Still? Going, going, going, SARAH HARRIS: Can we watch We have to persuade him, Ah, wow. Wow, Pandu. Who's this guy? You put a sari over his head. [PANDU SPEAKING MARATHI] SARAH HARRIS: He's got money Your best friend, Sudir. Oh, wow, that's a nice photo. Wow, thank you. [SPEAKING MARATHI] SARAH HARRIS: Later that day, at his favorite Bollywood Sangli condom trick. SARAH HARRIS: You're about to classic Sangli condom trick that when his male customers don't [SPEAKING MARATHI] SARAH HARRIS: I think I lost. Pandu may want a better life for other devadasis, there's a lot recruiting the next Now, we're on our way to another kilometers outside of Mudhol. And most of women who live caste, and so most of them are vulnerable to becoming devadasis. One of the interesting things we're going to be able to go woman who's made a real career And she's built this enormous village as a kind of symbol So she can become a role model the village that becoming a good way of life. The legendary owner, Champa, She's too busy turning Inside, shiny display cabinets walls as testaments There were groups of village house to gawp at her flickering shelves of broken electrical The message is clear-- prostitution is a lucrative So this is the necklace, the wear when they get dedicated. And hers is just hanging on She's an old lady called the oldest devadasi women And I've just been told that radio to this village. No one had ever seen a radio Walking through the village, we everywhere. The locals told us that all preparing themselves for the apparently the most the Yellamma calendar. After hearing so much about the in Saundatti, we drove four first day of this month-long Just up there in the center of the goddess Yellamma. That's the entrance to her Over the course of the 28 days, people will pass through A heaving shantytown springs famous Yellamma shrine. The place is filled with garish music, sticky sweets, and the of the goddess Yellamma. Hello. Nice to meet you. We're not allowed-- we're not No. SARAH HARRIS: This is the the main attraction It's here that for hundreds and devadasi girls have come for which are now illegal. And we're not allowed in, so outside, but you can see around, praying to Everything around the temple and you've got all these red women put on their foreheads. And this is to kind of represent the goddess Yellamma. And the green bangles are in road here, and they're the girls during their devadasi And tonight is the moon their bracelets as a symbol This is also one of the places come and pick up potential The brothel madams will travel and Pune and come to Saundatti young girls to traffic. Amidst all the religious fervor, feeling of secrets going Families are offered a generous their young daughters, pretense of a better future. But it's here that the next prostitution are found. What we really wanted to do was ceremony, but that didn't look And as a bunch of pasty weren't exactly inconspicuous. Luckily, we met an ex-devadasi activist called Sitavva. She agreed to stage a mock an idea of what really goes SITAVVA: [SPEAKING KANNADA] SARAH HARRIS: Leaving Saundatti, by everything we'd seen. The bright colors and energy overshadowed by the seedy ceremony that condones Our last stop before we headed of Sarol, where we'd arranged devadasi women, all from When we arrived, we were told died of HIV. [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE] SARAH HARRIS: India is a land extravagant new wealth Everywhere you look, there's a traditional forces of religion, superstition and the inevitable capitalism. Nowhere are these clashes more the devadasis, where religious for commercial gain. The devadasi tradition is communities, generation And with the advent of AIDS and a deadly price tag. And today, any remnants of the have all but disappeared. All that's left is a system prostitutes and their