- Do you suffer from an unfulfilling job? Nick and Jada have also until they transform to a $300,000 per year And today's episode is all Good morning. I am Nick. - Good morning. Jada, nice to meet you. - Nick. So what is your guys' story? How did this all start and how'd you guys get this - Yeah, so I think as far as that's a little bit more my field. Jada did work serving in some restaurants for a little while in her younger years, but I've been a chef all my career. And prior to moving out I was out in the Napa Valley and I was the executive - Wow, that is pretty cool. - Yeah. So this is our commissary kitchen. Downtown Columbia. And this is where we do some of our prep. This is also where we get our deliveries. - [Nick] Okay. - And a little extra - Awesome. So what were the total of and how did you finance that investment? - Sure. We bought the almost brand new, and it cost us $150,000. - Okay. - The wrap, another $12,000. And then just branding, we have some really great branding, and that was another 10 to 15,000, depending on how you look at it. - Wow. - So, you know- - All in, you know, - Okay. Okay. And the, with the truck, the So we put 20% down on that. - [Nick] Okay. - And we financed the - Yeah. Now 170, it's almost, you can buy a house - Oh yeah. Absolutely. - But this is money generating machine. - Yeah. That's right. - It's like a restaurant on wheels. So we thought definitely - Yes. So what's one piece of that you wish you would've known sooner? - Yeah. I think, you know, starting with a good working capital. We put a lot of our into a bigger, newer truck with - [Nick] Okay. or, you know, for anybody to make sure that you have and that you're not trying to look for it after you've started. Come into it with it. - Okay. Okay. (upbeat music) Nick, this is beautiful. Where are you taking us? - Yeah, man. We're taking Leipers Fork is this really neat little unincorporated town right outside of Nashville, south of Nashville. - So how many services like These events are, we do about And so two to three times a week. - [Nick] Okay. And does that typically - No. No it doesn't. - You guys. So did you hear that? So these events do not So wait in here to find out how he turned this truck All right, you guys. So at what point did you realize that The Hen House is gonna make it? I mean it's gonna crush and how long did it take? - Yeah. - It was really fast actually. Because we put it out there to as like a coming soon, trying to build some they were so excited for a new concept. - Okay. before the wrap was even - No way. - Yeah. in operation. - And she already had us booked, you know, a couple months out. - [Nick] And then also - [Jada] Yeah. Our grand opening was... - I mean that's when we realized, okay, this is gonna work. People are loving the food. They're raving about it. And we had a really good response for- - Really good turn out. I think also because our, one of our goals was to be able to support other small businesses in our area and local farms. And so by supporting it really brought in our community to also be very supportive of us and our new concept and So I think that really helped a lot. - So when you first started this business, obviously you had a lack So I am wondering what did you guys do to stay on a tight budget. And there's other people that are wanting to start this business. What advice can you offer them that, hey, this is what we're doing, - Getting creative with - Oh. Okay. - So we started to do grab and gos for different markets around the area. We started like a supper club and we're doing private dinners. So things outside of just the truck. - [Nick] Okay. Okay. - So creating different revenue streams. You know, something that about was like, was YouTube. So we got our first YouTube video out and so that's kind of a, you know, thinking into the future of that we can drive outside - So your YouTube account is and pay for these small - Right. Yeah. For someone who wants to start a truck and have limited finances, what are the best options that you guys can suggest to the viewers? And I mean are there any investors that you might hook up with or there's other niches that - Sure. I mean obviously the to a bank, but not everyone can do that. - Yeah. - And so having some whether it be somebody that's for what you're doing and - Like a family member or something? - And that's the other Like a family member, a friend, and then there's like less you know, is another And another thing that you could do that we did is we actually and we put 20% down on a truck. There's a company out there and they will actually finance - How convenient. - Yeah. Made it really nice for us. - So what is one mistake that has impacted your growth and what did you learn from it? - Yeah, I think- - No, go ahead. - Just one. We took every event That was like, it kept us very busy and it was very exciting at first. We're like, &quot;Look at her But you know, the, we really soon realized that like not every event - [Nick] Okay. who our customers were, Yeah. - And also setting boundaries and learning to say no because when you're just getting started, you wanna say yes to - [Nick] Yes. Yes. - And it's almost out of like, okay, if we don't get something scheduled, then, you know, are we Are we gonna be, you know, we wanna get our name out there, but like Nick said, not every event is a successful event and you almost spin your wheels. And then we at the beginning because we were just And some days, it just wasn't but it was a learning experience, and we, you know, learned and we know now. - We learned what to say yes - Okay. So if somebody is are they, is the best suggestion or advice to just go out there and try it and then you decide which one is good or which one is not? Or what kind of tips - I think that's, yeah, that's the thing. You kind of do have to go out there and see who your clientele is. For us, especially being that our concept is so much different, so finding that clientele that is a little bit more health conscious and that does support eating local and all that kind of stuff. - Yeah. And for somebody else I would say also it's really important to place a value on your time going out where at the beginning Nick and I did not have a We just wanted to get our name out there and so we did not require a minimum and that really backfired on us. So I would say know that your business is valuable, and you do need to require a minimum to go - Yeah. Okay. - All right. So it's mostly you two in the business every day, all day. How do you deal with the and what makes it worth it? - Yeah. The fear of staying in a position that was super unfulfilling to us and just was extremely stressful and our schedule was for somebody else. I think that the fear in our life was scarier than to start this business. And although it's and there are a ton of pros and cons, the pros do outweigh the cons We can make our own schedule. We have a lot of flexibility. We have more time, you know, to spend with each other We are doing everything together. - [Nick] That's so sweet. - [Jada] And yeah. So it - When we moved out to Nashville, it was different than what And it just wasn't fulfilling. - Yeah. and like just not happy. - And she's like let's just And that's kind of where the idea of the food truck came about. - I think it's great because a lot of people right now are thinking what can I be doing that's away from my nine to five job and focus on my own gifts and talents. - Yeah. - Yeah. - So what is your guys' biggest regret starting doing this business? Knowing what you guys know now, if you're gonna start over again, what is the one or two things you're like this is what we're doing or changing. - Absolutely. Yeah. Bookkeeper. From the beginning, we should have started with a bookkeeper. We tried to do it all ourselves. Once we got that bookkeeper, it changed the game completely for us. - It did. - Absolutely. - They were recommended in our community that was using them who had a small business as well. And she just came in, Because when you're starting a business and there's so many different if that's not your area of expertise, which it's neither of ours, things can get messy And so you don't see everything And so once we shifted and it allowed us to keep all of and it helped us to save a lot of money. And so it really shifted things for us from a financial standpoint. - Perfect. - Let's talk about your brand. So is it important to have and how did all this come up? - Yeah. I think it's really important to have a story because it for our customers and to know our story and our background I think more special and it makes to what we're bringing to the community. And our branding, as you can tell, has a lot of the farm to truck vibe to it. We wanted to go with something that felt like it was an old school kind of like dairy farm look to it. And it was also important that we put where it was established where we were born and where - And I think it's a great story. I mean, cuz really what you're &quot;Hey, this is from the farm - Yeah. - Without processing and everything else. - Right. - Yeah. - So Nick, what are the best ways to, let's say attract new customers? Like is there something you guys are doing to market to them to bring them into your business and do those private events So I think social media is My wife has been really Has been a huge platform for us. In this area, Facebook is big and so we try to be present And then our newest - So how do you have - Yeah. Well, luckily that came to us and in filming us and he's been fantastic. - [Nick] Wow. - So he started by doing that we've been doing and Asked us if he could &quot;Sure. Like go do a video of the truck.&quot; So we ended up posting a and I thought this is really cool, and like this could be pretty neat. People wanna see this stuff on YouTube. - [Nick] Yeah, absolutely. - The other thing too is like, when my wife and I first we went onto YouTube. Tried to find things on food trucks. There really wasn't anything. You guys were like the only people that had something You know, there's like, but there really isn't a And so we thought that, you know, how need would that be for people to be able in like every day, you know, sort of scenario on the course or- - [Nick] Yeah. Excellent. And hopefully in the near future, we'll have more food trucks. - Yeah. from you guys without you. - You guys have been and radio interviews. - Yeah. - How did you guys do that and how can other business - I think the way that we through social media and and just really becoming and letting people know and accolades that Nick has received as a chef really made a and newspapers and a little bit more intrigued and interested in interviewing us to hear more about our concepts. So that really helped us, I think, to get into that position to where, you know, we were interviewed and- - Yeah. - That's perfect. Social - Yeah. So if you have any your previous experience as a chef or business owner, tell people about it. - Yeah. - All right. You guys, So these questions are and you guys have 10 Are you ready? - We're ready. - All right. So Uros Lokovic asks, &quot;How did you decide that this location where you operate can of customers and income?&quot; - So in Leipers Fork, all of the restaurants And so we were invited by the community to come out to do a food truck Tuesday. - Perfect. JR Antonio asked, &quot;Did you have experience - Yes, I did. - [Nick] Excellent. - Little over 20 some odd years. - [Nick] Okay. And how do - What grows together Just flavor profiles that I That's how we create 'em. - Improlife asks, &quot;What do you - Full utilization of food. - Bovice asks, &quot;How do you and consistent customers?&quot; - Social media. - Boom. Good job you guys. - Yeah. - So you guys also rent How does it make it work for - Sure. And, well, for one, it's a place for us to park And then it allows us to have So a business, an address place where our purveyors could come and drop off our produce You know, we might be off at, you know, an event somewhere and and drop off our produce or meat or whatever it is that's coming in. - Okay. Are there any other benefits of having a commissary kitchen? - Yeah. Extra prep space for sure. So one of our big things And so when we start catering, we need a lot more space to prep. - Yeah. - And so just extra prep room is huge. A larger stove and another oven and things along those lines. - That's wonderful. And typically, how much - So here in this area, it's $500 a month. - Okay. - Which is very, very good. - That is so reasonable. - You go north of here into Nashville and you're probably looking - Wow. - Okay. - Jada, so what is one piece of advice that has completely changed - I think for somebody that's going into this type of business or really any type of business, go for it. If you're gonna do it, go all in. We, there were some, you know, some fears for us diving into this and taking a leap of faith. But once you're in it, you realize it's actually not as scary as you make it out to be in your mind. - [Nick] Okay. - And so I think once you take that step, everything else will and follow and it's just like, don't think too far out into the future. You just need to take baby steps to get to where you wanna be. It's worth it. - That's cool. - So did you guys have any followers that you were looking Like how did you come to this step here? - Yeah. Well, it's kind of ironic because actually we watched - [Nick] Okay. They were really, yeah, they were really And we were trying to find to just kind of get like some advice in getting started and you guys kept popping - And absolutely love what you said. Just, it's a passion that both of you have and just go for it and go all in. - Right. - Awesome. Thank you. What is your revenue for average month? - Average is around $30,000. I'd say anywhere from $25,000 to $35,000 depending on catering, - [Nick] Okay. - And, you know, during you might be hitting about $20,000. - And what are the main and how much of that is your profit? - Your main expenses labor costs, and then just kind of what it costs to run the truck, gas, your kitchen, your insurance, all that kind of stuff kinda I'd say about, our food cost It really just depends. Being out here, we're using local meat, like local chickens and stuff. We're not hitting a off the chicken like we would like to. - [Nick] Yeah. what was something that we're proud of. - Yeah. as a hit and we're about 25% labor. And then I'd say about the rest of it, somewhere around 25% that I was just talking about. - [Nick] Okay. around a 20% profit just that you're getting into. - Okay. - All right, you guys. So how important is a proper and what did you guys do to develop that? - It's super important. It can be challenging at times and if you're not, if you don't have tunnel vision to like get to that end goal, and you're not self disciplined or you don't have enough in this journey, it can be a bit tough. And so I think just really whether that be getting encouragement from your business partner wherever you- - [Nick] Customers? You do need that little along the way just to keep you going in a positive direction. - [Nick] Oh. - So I feel like just, you know, some support but also staying So whatever it is you need to like do to de-stress in your life and That's very important also. - Yeah. That is so good - Yeah. - And those customers that for some reason might not so it's so important to have, you know, the right mindset, and think on all things - Yeah. - Definitely. - So you mentioned that these they don't cover all your expenses. So what have you incorporated that has helped you cover Yeah. So events, catering, that is where the money is at for us. Now with that being said, taking the truck out to these type of, to this type of a place where we're doing a la carte business for the public is essential 'cause that's how we're - There it is. - You know. But yeah, the catering jobs - Perfect. So you guys, did you hear that? You go out there in the market and to get these private events where you can be hosting and So one year has passed by. What are you guys' worst memories - Yeah, so I'd say the worst would be, you know, weather. You never know what you're gonna get. You know, it could be raining one day and it can be sunny the next and that really determines how much business we're gonna get. - Yeah. And you mentioned - Oh, yeah. - Actually, yeah. Right in the middle of service, So you just never know Actually in the middle of - Wow. - So the health inspector - Yeah. - We still got a hundred percent though. - Nice. Yeah. Score. (Nick laughing) - We sure did. Yeah, exactly. - Have a chicken while you're waiting. - That's right. That's right. So weather for sure is, it was a very difficult thing for us and hence why we also you know, revenue streams. Best is I got to work with my wife. - Aw. - And it, yeah, it's just kind of, it's been great like growing together. Not only just personally, but, you know, on a business level too, so. - [Nick] Yeah. Awesome. And connecting with all of our customers who a lot of them have become our friends and knowing that we're providing a more health conscious it's very rewarding and fulfilling for us. - The smiles on their faces. You know, the reaction that they have when they eat our food &quot;That's the best food I've ever had.&quot; And it's just makes you feel good. - Yes. - Yeah. Well I gotta say, I've tried your food, - Oh, thanks man. - And I also gotta say, like I've observed your customers. They all come happy. It's almost like they're - Yeah. - And then they're giving Like this is so beautiful. So keep on pressing you guys. - Awesome. Thank you so much. - Of course. All right, you guys. That So I hope you have learned a ton and how you can start your And you can also watch our other videos with Carlos and Don Lucho and how he started his own business. Till next time. (upbeat music)