You might be seeing a lot of You Won't Believe They Don't Want You To See! personal air conditioners. You might have wondered if these might be And today I'm here to tell you that you're and the answer to your question is an absolute, unequivocal, indisputable, irrefutable probably. This thing, as well as most of the devices out there which emulate its design including the Blaux?... Blaugh? Bloerp?... is a miniature swamp cooler. Note; not air conditioner! Despite what it Swamp cooler. By the way, swamp cooler seems to be a rather US-specific term; evaporative cooler is the more technical and also less gross term. But swamp is just one syllable so I'm saying It's also just more fun! Swamp. Swomp. Swawmp. See? Deal with it. Swamp coolers do work, in fact in parts of can sometimes negate the need for air conditioning But these are not replacements for air conditioning. If you live in a region of the world where but indeed to provide dehumidification, well then these thing are just silly! You see, these aren't air conditioners by However, in a sort of odd twist, swamp coolers as a conventional air conditioner. They exploit the fact that as water evaporates, I talked a bit about latent heat in my video At a very basic level it's simply that in liquid to gas, it requires a lot of energy. Water is, believe it or not, a substance and It doesn't just disappear when it reaches to cause it to vaporize. The same thing happens when water evaporates. You don't have to get water up to boiling You probably knew that already, the water and the oceans aren't boiling. In any body of water, the water molecules have enough kinetic energy to free themselves Of course extra energy, for example from the how water changes phases, it takes a little A device like this is simply using that concept All it is is a fan which blows air past some The forced airflow and the large surface area the water to evaporate quickly. As it does so it takes some of the heat energy well you get a bit of cooling. This is, by the way, exactly how sweating Fun fact! The name swamp cooler is thought to have originated algae and other fun lifeforms take refuge If you've never encountered a swamp cooler before, well we'll get into why that might be in a short while, but you've probably Those misting fans that blow not just air but Their goal isn't just to make you annoyingly in fact the hope is that you don't get wet at all. Instead, the spray nozzles atomize the water evaporate and cool the air, sometimes a dramatic Even without the fan, if you've seen those well typically that's the goal. Cooling. And that's the same sort of thing that these But there's a big, big, big big big big huuuuge See, where I live, air conditioning isn't It's also there to remove moisture from In fact that was the original purpose of air and other industrial buildings where humidity Human comfort was just a bonus. Air conditioners can remove moisture because via a liquid refrigerant, which creates a air will condense on. OK, time to bring this guy out again. I'm going to explain what actual air conditioners and if you're not interested in this part go ahead and skip to here. But, I think it will help to illustrate why fad devices. This is a basic window air conditioner operating This is about as small as they come, but for and sometimes moved around a bit The refrigeration cycle really is almost magical, For now, the only things we need to focus Notice that it's a sealed loop, starting the compressor. All these various pipes are filled with a special chemical called a refrigerant. What's so special about refrigerants? Well, I'll show you! This is a can of R134a (also known as 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane). It's typically used in cars but is currently being Now you obviously can't feel this through You can shake it and tell that there's definitely Maybe you can hear it. [sloshy liquidy sounds] Put it on a scale and you can see that it But here's the key thing - this would really The boiling point of this chemical is -15deg Fahrenheit, That's really cold! So why is it still a liquid? It's at room temperature but also not a gas. How? Well, because it's trapped in this can. It's under pressure, and when you confine (and thus increase the pressure it's under) Right now, at room temperature, the pressure Not tremendously high. And so long as it's in this can, it will It doesn't have room to expand into a gas. But, if I were to puncture a hole in this which I'm not going to do because this chemical is environmentally problematic, it would instantly begin boiling once the pressure is relieved. And the key is, in order for it to do that, The latent heat of vaporization doesn't higher temperature than boiling - it still - or boil. It will initially do that from itself, causing but then it will actually pull energy from It becomes an area devoid of heat energy, That makes the air around it get colder. But, once it's all expanded to a gas, we've achieved The single most important property of refrigerants is in order for us to raise their boiling This can really isn't that strong at all In fact, fun fact! Those cans of computer duster you can buy? Those are filled with a refrigerant. If you thought that was just compressed air Nope! It's a refrigerant. You need very strong tanks to hold back compressed Just look at this little three gallon air This tank is made of thick steel and when it barely holds enough air to fill a tire. Because selling a can of compressed air would that can accomplish hardly any dusting work, these cans are filled with a liquid refrigerant which expands into a gas as it is vented by the spray nozzle. [ffffssssssstttt] This allows for much more dusting to occur. And is precisely why these cans get It's a refrigerant briefly refrigerating. If you spray them upside down you'll release and you can witness it boil away with your very eyes. [phwwwwwoooooosssshhh] A slightly terrifying thing about these is greenhouse gases, and the idea that we just of venting directly to the atmosphere is more than This particular can is full of R152a, Now, as far as refrigerants go, it's not It has a global warming potential of 140, which sounds pretty bad but it's about and also its atmospheric lifetime is only (again, about an order of magnitude better than this). So, in all likelihood it's probably not that bad. Still, I would highly encourage you to look (if you have one) or better yet find alternative means of dusting your computer junk. And by the way, this very same chemical is spray paint and hair spray, and we used to everyone's least favorite ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) trade named Freon for that task. Yeah, the ozone layer still hasn't forgiven But anyway, because you don't need terribly we can easily build a machine which when and where we want it to. And that's what an air conditioner or refrigerator The compressor, which by the way is the same but it's sealed in this black cylinder so that squeezes it into the confined space That causes it to get quite hot but more importantly as pressure in the condenser builds. With the aid of these fins and a fan forcing it will get cooled back down as it travels through the pipes. By the time it's at the end, it has condensed Let's take a look at that with a thermal This has been off overnight so everything It's amazing how quickly the condenser heats Almost instantly the pressure is high enough on the inner walls of the pipes. And just as an evaporating refrigerant steals a condensing refrigerant releases energy as it becomes That's why the condenser gets hot - the as it changes phases. Liquid refrigerant will eventually start to and it will usually be cooled down a little further (which, incidentally, is called subcooling in HVAC parlance) before it reaches the metering device. This ensures a decent volume of liquid refrigerant is at the metering device in preparation for the next step, and is precisely why the amount known as the charge, is so critical The restriction created by the metering device between the two sides of the system, because on its output side, its input side creates The metering device can be as simple as a of refrigerant that can pass through it, or which reacts to changes in thermal load That's deeper than we need to be going, but once another heat exchanger called the Now that it's in a low pressure environment, you release from a can of computer duster. And it needs energy in order to do that, so making it get very cold. Again, let's take a look with a thermal As soon as it's switched on, the evaporator a place where energy in the room will naturally go. The refrigerant in here NEEDS energy to evaporate, is too low for it to remain a liquid. The fins of the evaporator help it to scavenge Once the refrigerant has reached the end, assuming the charge is correct, it will have absorbed all the energy it can. It will then re-enter the compressor and the cycle Now the energy it just picked up from inside the room can be expelled in the condenser. The conditioning part of air conditioning gets very cold. Moisture in the air will condense on cold You've seen that before when holding a glass of ice water on a humid day. That happens because air's ability to hold Drop the temperature and it can't hold as condenses out of it and onto the cold surface Fun fact! That's how clouds and storms and dew happen. Because the evaporator gets so cold and air rushes through its fins, that air will lose its ability to hold moisture so it loses its as time goes on. Thanks to surface tension and gravity, that down the fins into either some sort of drip the bottom of the machine where it can seep to the Newer models like this will intentionally collect it around the condenser, and the condenser fan's blade (or even, as is the case here, splashes water onto the condenser, increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the air conditioner through, somewhat ironically, evaporative cooling. In fact, in this one, the condenser is actually And it's done quite cleverly at the very The refrigerant should at this point already but the water will cool it further making increasing subcooling, again that's the after it has condensed. That increases efficiency and effectiveness more energy after the refrigerant boils. Remember that when it boils it first takes cooler you can make it before it re-enters (though there is some nuance there). Some people claim that this practice reduces of corrosion but those are just some people Also, the evaporator which is exactly the and everything, gets wet constantly as it So here's the key thing - the refrigerant and is making a continuous circuit. We're forcing it to boil, then condense, boil, over and over and over and over and over again. And over again. And most importantly, we control where those We're using the properties of latent heat in a deliberate and controlled way. We call this a heat pump. With it we can collect and concentrate heat and move it to another to be released. In one direction this will cool a room by but the cycle can be reversed, which is becoming increasingly common. Since the refrigerant is actually performing it can move four or five times as much energy as the heat pump consumes in the compressor (depending on conditions). It's the closest thing we have to free energy, Every real air conditioner, even the terrible which you should avoid at all costs as I explained here (feel free to skip around that video as we're covering some of the same things again) has a hot side and a cold side. The cold side collects energy, and the hot Move energy out of a space and you cool it, This thing, though... you'll find no sides It's basically just a wet sponge and a fan The first is that there's no self-contained While you most certainly can use water to Water generally isn't scarce (except for where it is) so for the most part this is more of an annoyance than anything else but it is noteworthy. And the second flaw? Well, now it's time to answer the question Do these even work? Well, as a concept these can technically work. In fact, you can even see a slight cooling I'll emphasize slight, but honestly it is cooling with nothing but room-temperature And it was more powerful than I expected, below ambient temperature. Yes, my expectations were indeed that low. But now here comes the gigantic caveat. The real dealbreaker is that, if you haven't a swamp cooler doesn't dehumidify - it adds humidity! In order for a swamp cooler to do anything at all, it has to help water inside it evaporate. And that makes the ambient humidity go up. In case you thought, oh, well no big deal, well here's the other thing - if the ambient humidity is already high, then swamp coolers just don't work. They can't work. It literally becomes impossible. The air has to be able to take on more moisture and if you're at or near the saturation The air that comes from this feels a bit cooler not by much. In this test I pointed the louvers so it was blowing right (because apparently I don't have a thermometer) so I could get a fairly And, well, 64 degrees was the best it could That's down from an ambient temperature So at best it produced a 4 degree temperature This becomes even more damning when you consider this was in an air conditioned space already! Relative humidity was about 50% when I tested Outside, though, it was around 80%. It flat out would not work if it were my only To really drive home how much like air conditioners to see what the air exiting the air conditioner That's actually cold. In short, swamp coolers only work up to a And, because we're dealing with relative temperature feels to us) it's anything but As a general rule, a swamp cooler could, assuming of the wet-bulb temperature. Now, what is the wet-bulb temperature, you ask? Heh, well annoyingly it is the lowest temperature I know. It describes itself. Hang on, I'll try... Basically, the wet-bulb temperature is what wet cotton or the like will read. It's affected by how quickly the water evaporates It presents the theoretical minimum temperature an evaporative cooler can hope to obtain, and as humidity goes up, so does the wet-bulb temperature. When humidity is 100%, the wet-bulb temperature (also known as... normal) temperature Given my sense of humor I'm sure I've Honestly, all you need to know is that as humidity goes up the ability for these to work goes down. I mean, that makes sense, given that they're basically and explains why calling these air conditioners is super dumb. Now, are they without value? Well... it depends. It might be nice to use this on my desk as Maybe I could run that a little less. After all a three degree But certainly it won't make a dramatic difference In arid places, swamp coolers work amazingly! Many people have them to supplement traditional energy needs (at the expense of increased And, since you typically want a little more Swamp coolers can also help the efficiency the space around the condenser coils and thus Kinda like how this one pools the condensate around the condenser. You can see this in practice in this video You should check out that channel if you want and air conditioning systems out there up and how issues are diagnosed and repaired. It's really a great channel for that sort of thing. But here in the Midwest where humidity can swamp coolers don't do much and actually just make things worse. Now, this little thing, to its credit, suggests Which is, well, somewhat hilarious refrigerator to cool you down and you know what? I approve! Not in any practical way, of course. It's absolutely silly. Your refrigerator made that ice by pulling energy out But technically it would work at least a 'lil But in general these desktop personal coolers are only sometimes able to do anything at all. It depends entirely on where you live and Now just because I'm not a total jerk about And while I think that sure, it provides a that you HAVE TO BUY that all of the ads out And how on Earth this little thing managed Suspicious! And also, right now, these are horribly overpriced! It is literally a computer case fan, a hunk with a tiny control board for everything. It's powered over USB and they don't even These should cost no more than $25 and even Plus, the water absorbing material should be It gets gross over time, and do any of these Who knows! Keep in mind also that by adding humidity Getting water to condense removes heat energy that's the whole latent heat bit. So if you have a lot of moisture in the air, provide the same amount of cooling thanks Using a mini-swamp cooler in an already-humid struggle even more (though admittedly, not thing is capable of putting out over a day). So - these things. Are they a scam? Well, they just barely pull off a no on a technicality. I mean, calling it an air conditioner is an But if they're sold as "personal cooling devices" then... well yeah I suppose that's technically true. But they're only useful in certain places This is not a personal air conditioner, and while Just Add Water! If you'd like to take a little test drive I'd suggest you make your own evaporative cooler to see if it would even do anything for you. You could probably just glue a few kitchen with a bit of space between them, add some water so the sponges absorb it, and desk fan and get way more cooling than this thing Any time you see a cooling device for sale exhaust or actual installation, it's not There has yet to be a device you can just In fact, that's impossible. So while I can't quite call this a useless terribly overpriced, and almost always not worth your time. Thanks for watching! This is now, I believe, the third time I've actually making a video specifically about It really is a remarkable achievement of humanity, and common and important as we move into the age For sure you'll be seeing a video about get into the real nitty-gritty like all those and how we can move forward with grace. But for now, le bloops. disingenuously smooth jazz But swamp is just one syllabo... syllabo... But swamp is just one syllabo... syllable! I said "syllabo"... twice now Now the energy it picked up from cooling the process.... From the cooling process... uugghghhg But! I think it will help to illustrate why these .... oh I need it here, ha! In fact, fun fact! [clink as the nozzle hits the table] And if you're not interested in this part, But, I think it will help to... that's right The air that comes from this feels a little not my much. Not My much. It's not MY much it's YOUR much! The way these things are marketed? Not cool. Oh I regret not working that into the script somehow. But now it's the secret end joke, so yay!