Narrator: They're the Mike Short and stocky, they packing mighty punches From the American Wild West to vipers are notorious for diamond-shaped heads and the longest But these super-snakes of coldblooded killers. The females have a softer Thelma, Velvet and Nala with one thing in common But is this what makes in the game of survival? Enter the lab to experiment dissect specimens, as we explore the lives Scavengers with a have picked up the scent Born into the wilds these western diamond-back are instantly at the and other creatures they Only minutes old, their survival instincts even if they don't achieve With no way to newborns are easy like this king snake. But they've got back up. This is Thelma, and Unusually for most but characteristic for vipers, Thelma and her offspring will only remain together until they're strong enough to head off into the In the meantime, the family's and her presence of discouraging Eastern King snakes and baby rattlesnakes Thelma's not shy to let her A rattled warning first line of defense. It's the signature Synonymous with danger, and her family's infamous status as symbols of the Young snakes shed their entire But rattlesnakes are at the end of their tails, and this becomes the Each time they shed, and adds another Operating at up to 2000 the shaker muscles used are some of the -- and they have an the muscles work only and they don't get tired. It's a similar level that links Thelma to but in quite the opposite way. Velvet is a West African She's silent, solitary, Her beautifully render her invisible But her quiet demeanor belies her deadly nature. Velvet's like a highly capable of infinite patience She can wait motionless for and then unleash a Armed with fangs up Gaboon vipers not only have they're also the largest and heaviest viper But Velvet's not aggressive, She rarely attacks and then only Most of the time, no one until it's too late. Velvet, and Thelma the but they share a simple to stay alive, and It's a game of survival, but what happens Thelma's early warning system, her badass attitude Or Velvet's size, stealth, lethal patience, and Meet Nala. She's not as showy as Thelma, but she belongs to a group the puff adders. They're small, but and they're going about a little differently. They've built a fearsome through sheer numbers Spread throughout Africa puff adders occupy one of of all viper species. They're adaptable, and hardy, and can survive in a wide in the wild, and Puff adders are Their skins come in a sometimes making them But for one the chevron markings Displaying such blatant warning and living so close to humans, to operate Velvet has few, if any natural and rarely comes into While Thelma does, giving her enemies a chance, warning them before But puff adders don't [dog barking] When faced with danger, a classic viper ambush tactic. Nala has attitude, and it's earning her For Nala the puff adder, life in an African village Dogs don't like her, When she senses a like most vipers, fleeing While Thelma the rattlesnake Nala prefers to draw to herself as possible. She freezes, her to blend into her surroundings. She waits for the In this way, Nala and venom for when It's a good strategy, if discovered she could be hurt But sometimes she's perceived threats and are often bitten when they -- sometimes even on top of -- This shoot first ask has earned puff adders But it's not because puff adders Death from a Western is virtually unheard of, and no fatalities from have ever been recorded. So in comparison, Nala Yet her motives are Puff adders often live to human settlements. Because their prey do. But venomous snakes lurking In most cases, puff or when they've mistaken The results of such an Puff adder venom is It destroys cell tissue with But it's not only humans that fall victim to these In the wild, animals create known as game trails. For creatures like tiny rodents, to the world's largest these trails provide and often lead to waterholes And it's along paths like these that puff adders will position But when unsuspecting victims weighing thousands of pounds a little 13-pounder puff adder can defend itself It doesn't seem possible that could pierce the let alone do any serious damage. But here's evidence A bite caused such on the leg of this black rhino, that her entire foot rotted off, leaving behind just and flaps of decaying flesh. Trauma like this would render ensuring a slow due to starvation It's an extreme example when a puff adder bite With cases like these and surely puff adders must be more They are, but for reasons When tested Thelma the proves to be which attacks the blood. It can be rapidly but it's not nearly as dangerous to the average which is why fatalities In contrast to hers, Nala the puff adder and each produce their of tissue-destroying venom and when compared, proves to be more potent drop for drop. But Gaboon vipers have a much which makes it more deadly due to the devastating effects A puff adder bite will inflammation, bleeding and skin cells to self-destruct. Venom left to run its A Gaboon viper's venom but in extreme, and comes with extras. Tiny blood clots form and can cause organ failure. A powerful array of neurotoxins to attack myotoxins the muscular tissue, these are just to be found in the But that's not all. Because Gaboon and their venom glands so large, much deeper into the A bite from a Gaboon would life-threatening medical and certain death for prey. Yet puff adders are to humans than Gaboon vipers Gaboons favor forest habitat, so it's not often they come and as adults, they don't so they're not because they usually But life for a puff adder like With a number of and living in a including human settlements, puff adders have learnt with fight before flight. But meeting an enemy so Nala sticks to the shadows. It's just safer that way. Lucky for Thelma, her is far from humans on the It's a peaceful usually. Trouble in the shape of a strapping young is brewing down in the valley In these circumstances, isn't going to keep the peace. Far below Thelma rocky outcrop home, Living in this American isn't for the faint-hearted. [animal sounds] A rattled warning the sound is lost in the mayhem. [animal sounds] The only way to is to keep a low profile. But it's not that easy. Everyone's watching, everyone's on constant His reputation alone an unpopular guy But hanging around the All Cody's favorite treats whenever he wants them. So what if he's got and keep things low-key? It's well worth the effort. And he's really good at it. But Cody's real party He doesn't need to worry because he can operate under To the naked eye, the inside But Cody and his are equipped with that many of their cousins like It's like having the coolest Cody has thermal Snake species sharing this skill On either side of their snouts right at the very end between are tiny little pits. These house their which are always 2 to 3 than the rest of their body, keeping their sensitivity A small membrane hanging in a bony chamber, which allows it to in doing so making to changes in temperature in the snake's at any time of day or night. The nerve cells of the membrane produce a protein that when temperatures of around or higher are detected. Which is roughly the of a warm-blooded animal When this happens, based on the sent to the brain of the prey item on offer. Cody can single out living Without them even But something's up. He has complete advantage but he's not taking the Is it possible for a While Cody ignores his dinner, in her African village home, Nala the puff adder has no Like Cody, she's weighed of hanging around humans [dog barking] But even that's not Not when the place is crawling with ready-made She's still got to Once she's in position, [rat squeals] A quick stab of her fangs to ensure the rat making it easy to follow, But one isn't enough. Nala is going to make the most It may look like Nala's but she's preparing one that's going to put her So she's taking full advantage Deep in the forest, Velvet the But she's got a whole different It might not look like but that's all part of the plan. When the time is right, Velvet settles in to wait. As predators, snakes with the best hunting equipment. They don't have legs claws to grip, nor teeth So they've had to come up to find their niche as Velvet and her Gaboon have outdone themselves. They aren't when climbing trees so they stick to the ground. The forest floor and they've made it their own. Intricate patterns and allow her to disappear Once settled, she doesn't move. Just the slightest motion It may look like Velvet's but to keep this still actually takes an extreme While waiting in ambush, Velvet keeps firm practicing what's called While she needs to remain her muscles need to be ready for a sudden burst of activity To do this, alternate are either active or relaxed, continually rotating to and prevent one group In this way, Velvet conserves so she's always ready She only gets one chance. If she loses the it could be weeks before another potential She's got to get it and if she gets the strike Velvet the Gaboon She's kept still for days. Her muscles are like ready to strike in But that's not all to make a successful kill. Velvet may not have any limbs, but she's equipped with one of and defense systems in Venom. It's Velvet's ultimate weapon, allowing her to kill or at before they have any But to dispense this she needs a specialized And Velvet's just happens to be the She's capable of injecting up to 600mg of venom It takes only 100 to Like all vipers, against the roof of When hunting, as she they unhinge and swing down, But it's not easy to when you have rows of long, To get them in, and back it sometimes looks as This lethal combination of make her a deadly predator, but she's got one more to guarantee success: Patience. Any number of potential Velvet isn't picky -- she'll eat anything from rodents and birds to small A slight miscalculation Once she's set her there's no chance for escape. Her strike isn't the fastest but at over 20 feet per The shock of the while the complex venom cocktail As she waits for Velvet adjusts her fangs. They can really get Within 10 minutes, it's all Eating is a specialized process. Velvet unhinges her jaw to allow her to open her Using rows of teeth to latch on, she drags her prey where she can eat in peace. Back at the ranch, it turns out that Cody hasn't turned vegan after all. But he's clearly Snakes are able to control the even withholding it completely when dishing out a This rat has had a lucky escape There's only one reason the opportunity With a very slow metabolism, it could take him days, to digest a meal as Cody can't afford 'cause he's on a mission. It's not a meal he's after he's looking for a mate. And he's heading straight But someone's beat him to it. Cody's arrival on has thrown him headlong with a huge, pink-colored Cody has no idea nor that this is her home, with a really bad attitude tells Cody all he needs to know. He's found a female Like boxers meeting in the ring, It's all about moves, making the first and dominating with each. With no limbs to they fight with But it's not about Neither intends to hurt It's merely a ritual, a dance of domination. The twists and turns and thrusts A power struggle meant to But he needs to leave and ready to claim his prize The other male may but he doesn't Pinned to the ground by Cody knows he's out of the game. Defeat means eating It's a devastating He's foregone food, and risked injury but it's all been for nothing. He didn't get the girl. But Thelma's not she's not into anyone Cody the male rattlesnake has But while the other has it doesn't mean he's She's just had her babies and isn't interested It will take time for from giving birth. While the youngsters are around, she gets no alone time to But once they leave home, and maybe consider mating For now, no amount of from the pink male is Coiling against him, her He has no choice but He'll have to try Snakes mate in a ritual of The male nudges the bumping her lightly Their bodies caress, as the male tastes the testing if she's ready to mate. When the female is aroused, she'll lift the base of her Like these puff The males tend to do Perhaps the females pace because just one session for up to 3 hours. Yet it's the coming months they'll most need as they have big Females hold all the cards when They can store sperm from for up to 5 years before When the female feels and conditions are good enough to bring offspring she'll dip into her sperm-bank or 'become gravid.' Fertilization will occur but a female vipers' job doesn't and leaving them to Instead, their bodies When the young are mothers give birth Vipers are ovoviviparous but the eggs have a soft and they develop inside It's not clear whether with the developing embryos, so it may seem like a to have lugged over 20 It's a great sacrifice to carry the growing embryos. As she gets heavier, and her own body just as Thelma's did. But by carrying their instead of laying eggs, Nala, and Thelma, have given their offspring the best possible And hardships aside, viper moms in the animal kingdom. Now that Nala has given birth, She doesn't provide any grooming, Imagine doing that But it could have been worse, the record number of offspring and any snake species, is 156! Within two weeks of birth, usually once they've Nala's youngsters will Equipped with fangs and venom, they're fully independent and perfectly capable of Life in the wild is a and vipers take it seriously. They're a super each equipped with a and sophisticated weapons born ready to lead lives But it's these traits combined with the females' basic their softer sides, when it comes to family that ultimately gives the for success over many