- Today, I want to share with you how to make a homemade healing ointment that soothes bug bites, cuts, and a whole host of This is a natural antibiotic and it's very easy to make. (relaxing music) Hi, sweet friends. I'm Mary, and welcome to Mary's Nest, where I teach traditional cooking skills for making nutrient-dense foods like bone broth, ferment So if you want to learn how to be a modern pioneer in the kitchen, consider subscribing to my channel, and don't forget to click on the little notification bell below. That'll let you know every I just want to take a minute about homemade healing ointments, but if you are already and you just want to jump ahead and start making this ointment, be sure to check the timestamps Also, in the description below, I'll have a link to the blog post that corresponds with this video, and there you'll be able for making this ointment. Now, if you're a beginner and you're new to making or any type of herbal natural I highly recommend that you about how certain herbs or the essential oils from for treating different conditions and different skin conditions and so on and so forth. And if you're looking if you've been with me a while, you know I always recommend any herb book by Rosemary Gladstar, and her one for beginners if you're a beginner. Now, there are two more for the beginner. Number one, if you are pregnant or nursing or you're thinking of with a child or if you take medication either over the counter or prescription or if you have allergies, you really want to check with to make sure these type of home remedies, these natural remedies, things that are made with And the good news is thanks to who developed the School which is part of the University and that program has since spread to other medical schools as well around the country here and possibly in other that are helping doctors, medical doctors, become more knowledgeable and being able to integrate Alternative medicine being of traditional cultures. And the two are melded together, modern medicine and traditional medicine, to create integrative medicine. And as I've shared with I live in a small town, but we actually have a medical under Dr. Andrew Weil's So there is good news out there that more and more doctors about these things. And certainly if you or a doctor of that type of study, they can help you as well. And the second thing especially if you're a beginner and you're making remedies like this, natural remedies to apply always do a little patch test with a very small amount you can do it near your wrist, and make sure that you don't have any kind of allergic reaction. Now, for making this healing ointment, the easiest way to do this is with some sort of double-boiler apparatus. You can also do it in a either enamel-lined, cast iron is fine, or stainless steel, something that's non-reactive, that doesn't react with For example, pots and pans made from aluminum will sometimes react, meaning that they may leach something from the pot or the pan into what you're making in it, especially when you're you may often hear that with anything that involves So you just want to make sure that you're using something Lined cast iron, stainless steel, glass, all of these are very good. With just plain cast iron, you have to be a little careful because that can be reactive as well. Now, the way I like to do this is just by taking a glass bowl, you could also use a stainless steel bowl, and I'm just going to that I've got some water in the bottom, you don't need a lot of water, and I have this on minimum. You don't even need this water simmering, you basically just need it warm. And you want to make sure that it's not touching the water. The other thing you're going to need in terms of equipment per se is some type of container your healing ointment, once it's finished. I really like to store mine in glass, and this is just a little which is about the amount Now, if you like to use those little stainless steel containers that you often see people have salves in, they're often sold in the store like that, you can definitely do that, but you'd need a couple of because we are going to make between four and five ounces of this. Now let's go over the ingredients. The first ingredient that you're going to need is two tablespoons of beeswax. And what I have here If you have a large you can just grate that on a large grater, and it should be about It's not a super exact science, so don't worry too much, but you need just about two tablespoons. The beeswax helps give the final Also, beeswax has naturally and so that's always helpful whenever you're making some The next ingredient that you're going to need is a quarter-cup of coconut oil. The reason that we're using coconut oil is because it's a wonderful anti-microbial, and as an anti-microbial, it kills harmful microbes, and it's harmful microbes So anything we can do to tamp all the better. So that's why coconut when making various ointments or salves. Now, what about using tallow? I definitely have made using tallow, which is rendered beef suet. And if that's something in learning more about, I'll definitely link to those videos in the description below, where I show you not only and make tallow, but then how to use tallow to make various skin preparations. Next, you're going to need an Now, can you use olive oil because that's often in most traditional foods kitchens? Yes. But if you can obtain some jojoba oil, I highly recommend using it to make this particular ointment. The reason I like to use jojoba oil in making this healing Jojoba oil is rich in vitamin E, and vitamin E is a natural preservative which helps extend the shelf The nice thing about jojoba oil is that because of the high vitamin E content, it can help diminish scarring. So if you do get a small cut on your face and you're treating it that has jojoba oil in it, which is high in vitamin E, it's the vitamin E that helps And speaking of diminishing scarring, if you have even an old scar, you can use this healing to help hopefully diminish so that it'll eventually fade. Vitamin E is very helpful but what's so nice about using an oil that's high in vitamin E is on a synthetic vitamin E that you might buy just because all of these things work in essence synergistically together, and so I'm not a big fan of and then using it. I like the idea of using an that can help fade or diminish scarring but at the same time has that are in jojoba oil that I'm sure work with the vitamin E and just help overall healing. And the reason that jojoba on a cut or an abrasion, whatever the case may be, is because jojoba oil has been found to help accelerate healing of the skin. So it helps things heal quickly, and hopefully in that it helps diminish scarring. Now, I just want to make a mention, in talking about jojoba oil and using it on cuts to help but also to diminish scarring, is we're talking about minor maybe minor bug bites. If you have a serious wound or it looks like an you definitely want to make sure that you get proper But for minor cuts, minor abrasions, scrapes, bug bites, all things like that, these type of healing can help heal, and can also comfort and which is what we're going The herbs that we're going to rely on to make this healing ointment and one, actually both in a way, but one is commonly known for Now, what does analgesic mean? That means that it helps relieve pain. And you may even see this in at your local drugstore, that they'll say fight their antibiotic ointments, and it'll sometimes say plus pain relief. Well, we're going to use some herbs or the essential oils from herbs that do have analgesic properties. The first herb that we're going also known as German blue chamomile. And the essential oils from some company called Plant Therapy, I have no connection to them. Use whatever essential oil brand you like. In addition to having the nice thing about German it also has antibacterial properties, we want that. We want something that can kill bacteria, bad bacteria specifically, whenever we have a cut that we know we want to and so on and so forth. Plus it has anti-inflammatory properties, and whenever we can tamp down all the better. Now, if you don't have can you use Roman chamomile? Yes, generally in topical ointments, the German chamomile is preferred because its various properties but if you do have the certainly you can use that as well. The next essential oil that we're going to use Helichrysum is a very pretty whatever you want to call it, with bright yellow flowers. And if you've ever read about it, it'll often be referred to by nicknames like immortal or everlasting because it seems like just keep blooming no matter what. Now, yes, helichrysum also like chamomile, but it also has a whole host of properties and works very nicely because it too is very good at You'll often see sometimes coconut oil, in various home preparations So helichrysum and jojoba whenever you're making to help decrease the scarring Let me know in the description below if you'd like to see me make and to help decrease the scarring associated with the blemishes. Helichrysum is one of those that has many wonderful properties. In many ways, it's up sort of herbs and essential one of those that just In addition to helping diminish scarring, helichrysum is also a it has anti-inflammatory properties, it has antiseptic properties, plus it has another very In addition to seeing naturally made ones, you may also see this in because helichrysum has been found to have regenerative properties to help the skin just look better, to heal from within when you apply these, to have it sink into the skin and to have the skin start to look better. Maybe with less scarring, less wrinkles, whatever the case may be, it's very regenerative. And because of these is what makes helichrysum when used to make a healing ointment. The regenerative nature of helps minor wounds heal quickly. Just like the jojoba oil helps so does the helichrysum. So these two just work They help decrease scarring and they help the wounds heal quicker. So now that you know all the ingredients that are going to go and why we pick these let's make our healing ointment. So I've got my pot here with I have it set to minimum. You really just want to melt there's no need to rush the process. By heating it gently and just getting it to become we make it very easy to work with, but at the same time we retain both of the healing properties associated with both the So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to put my beeswax and get those melting. So the pellets are beginning to melt. And now I'm going to go ahead Well, this has melted So now I'm just going to go Now with the heat off but still our mixture is still warm here, I'm going to go ahead and and just get this to mix through, or mix all together. Well, I've got this jojoba So now what I'm going and be very careful when you do this. Kind of angle it away from you, because steam will escape from the pot that we've had that water simmering in allowing all of this to melt. And be sure to use pot holders, or if you use those gloves that are made out of pot holder material or whatever you use, you're going to need something because it is very warm. And as I said, when you're lifting it out, try to angle the bowl slightly so that the steam goes away from you. Alrighty, well, what just give this a few minutes to let it come up a little Not to the point where but just where you can comfortably, right now I cannot it's quite warm. And we don't want to put our because we don't want to So we're just going to let Well, this has cooled down nicely. As you can see, I can it feels very comfortable. It's warm but not piping hot like before. Okay, I'm going to set the spatula aside. Now we're going to put We're going to put in 10 drops and we're going to put in So here's the German chamomile. 1...10. Don't worry (chuckles) if you that's fine. And as you will see, let me remove this now that it's cooler, you'll notice it has an It's a very dark blue, and that is from one of the compounds that makes up German chamomile. Now 20 drops of the helichrysum. 1, 2, 3, 4...18, 19, 20, okay. Maybe we've got a little extra. (laughs) But don't worry, it's never so you don't have to worry. Alrighty, well, I'm going to go ahead now and I'm going to take a whisk, and I'm just going to mix so that we do get the with the jojoba oil, the coconut oil, and the melted beeswax. Now, we're going to get our jar, and I'm actually going to use a funnel to keep this as neat as possible. And then I'm going to go ahead And I just want to mention, if you have one of those that can also serve as you could go ahead and actually whether glass bowl or and melt your ingredients heat-proof, you know, and then it's a little There we go. I'm glad I had the funnel. Now, as you see, this is already starting to cool, and so I'm just going to use my spatula to get every little last I'm going to use the spatula, this might not be too smart, but I want to get every little last bit of this healing ointment into my jar. I think a knife, knife would work very well to just move this off. It's a lovely color, isn't it? It's from the German chamomile. Now, as you see, this is cooling up to room temperature. It's cooling from the outside in, you'll notice on the top so we're going to let it cool completely so that I can show you once it does cool to room temperature and you keep this in what I like to call your herbal medicine cabinet. And speaking of the if you've not had a on how to create a healing pantry, I'll definitely link to that And I have printouts to help I think it's very important where you keep all of as well as the ingredients that you need for making various natural And then within that healing pantry, I like to have something that I call the herbal medicine cabinet. And I like to have that area where I keep all of or the essential oils of herbs to make various natural remedies as well as any remedies That way I have everything in one place, and I'll also keep some books in there that can help me in the event that I want to make a for healing a particular So definitely check out that video and the helpful printouts. Now, in the beginning I you know, soothe a bug bite, soothe a cut, you know, help with healing, so on and so forth, and this really is an This is wonderful to or other areas of your skin The jojoba oil is also very but also for eczema. And so there are different with a healing ointment like this, and so I definitely on the wonderful properties but also of the German blue chamomile and also all about helichrysum. Now, before we try this out, I just want to take a minute Whenever you make anything homemade, there never really seems as to how long something will last. However, there are some general principles as to how long homemade ointments and homemade salves will last, but it can be a pretty broad window. Often you'll hear that these types of healing ointments will stay fresh anywhere from six months to three years, and then some people will say forever, I don't (laughs) know about that. But pretty much depending what essential oils you use, so on and so forth, the various other ingredients you use and what their shelf lives may be can give you a fairly good of your particular My general rule is that yes, it's going to be at its most potent within the first six months. However, I am comfortable keeping homemade herbal preparations and homemade essential oil Now, when it comes to storing this, I like to keep this in what that I like to call my within my healing pantry, and that's in a cool, dark place. These are best stored And personally I prefer to store because the bathroom can tend to be a warm, moist environment. So it's a good thing to have in a separate area that is and that will help extend its shelf life. Now, what I want to show to room temperature, it still is very very much like different little ointments that you may find at the health food store sold in those little tins. It really has a wonderful and it's very spreadable. And, oh gosh, these things They really do feel very healing. So as you'll see, this is very easy to work with. Plus, I want to mention something, if you ever have trouble with your cuticles this is a wonderful ointment for that as well as a whole host of other things that we talked about in today's video. Now, if you would like more recipes on how to make lots of teas, lotions, salves, oils, syrups, the whole host of things, be sure to click on this video over here where I have a playlist on all of those subjects as well as more. And I look forward to in my Texas Hill Country kitchen. Love, and God bless.