(upbeat music) - Hey everyone, it's Natasha and today I'm gonna teach you how to make the best brownies you'll Stay tuned 'cause we're for moist fudgy brownies. You'll impress everyone. Let's get started. (hands tap) We'll start with some quick prep. Preheat your oven to Then butter and line a nine Lining with parchment paper to remove the brownies from the pan later. Now place a medium saucepan over low heat and melt in two sticks or 16 with two cups of Reserve the remaining one for later. Continue stirring until and completely smooth. Then take that chocolate and let it cool for 15 minutes. You'll want that mixture to Now in a large mixing and these can be chilled No need to bring them to room temperature. Add one and a fourth Here's the secret ingredient, add one tablespoon of You can't taste the coffee, but it really amps up the Now add three tablespoons of oil and one tablespoon of vanilla extract. Whisk that together until Now our chocolate mixture has been cooling for about 15 minutes so we're going to pour into the egg mixture. Now I do set a timer for You want to make sure it's not too hot and also not too cold or it Now whisk those together and well combined. Oh yeah, this is getting good, but it's just gonna get In a second medium bowl, of all purpose flour, one half cup of unsweetened cocoa powder, one and a half teaspoons of baking powder, and half a teaspoon of salt. Whisk those together thoroughly, then add the dry ingredients Now I know there's not a but the results are incredibly fudgy and the texture will amaze you. Use a spatula to fold the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients and you don't see any streaks of cocoa, then stop mixing because this batter. Once the dry ingredients transfer that to your prepared pan. The batter will be thick and Oh, I could look at this all day. Once you've scraped out every last drop of that delicious batter, Now we'll need that one half cup of semi-sweet chocolate chips You can skip the chocolate chips on top if you want to cut down the sugar a bit, but keep in mind these brownies don't have any kind of glaze or frosting so adding the chocolate to decorate the top. It's just an easy way Once the chocolate chips are on, gently pat them down with your hand. Now we're gonna bake these on the center rack for 35 to 40 minutes. At 35 minutes, you'll have at 40 minutes you'll still I like them right in And when you poke a of the brownies, it'll of moist crumbs attached. The most important thing to is do not over-bake. Once these are out of the oven, let them cool in the pan until they're nearly at room temperature, giving those fudgy centers time to cool will make them much easier to slice later. All right, it is time for the taste test. I've been patient enough. It's still warm, but 'cause I want my brownies. (laughs) Okay, first of all, loosen up the edges that don't have parchment paper, just so it comes out easier. You can use a little knife or a spatula. Okay, now watch how Remember we lined it with parchment paper? Check this out. Boom (laughs). I like to take it out before slicing, that way I don't destroy Look at that. Isn't that gorgeous? It is, admit it. (laughs) Oh, okay. And the trick to a clean cut in a brownie is to wipe the knife with a paper towel just like you would with with every slice, okay? And then also you'll get a cleaner cut if you let it cool down Okay, so here we go, 'cause (laughs) We're going to make big slices because we like to be Oh yeah. Things are gettin' real. (laughs) Okay, look at this. So fudgy and moist and decadent and just completely delicious! Oh my goodness. We're gonna plate this. If you like a drier brownie, which I don't know anyone that does, but you can bake it a Oh! We forgot the ice cream I'll be right back. All right (laughs). Is there anybody else that totally loves a brand new tub of ice cream? Oh, it just scoops so easily. It's like this velvety texture. Here we go. All right, here we go. This is the moment I I like serving the ice And if it's still a little bit warm, the ice cream starts to (laughs) Just like it's doing right now! (laughs) Yum. Okay, here we go. Get a little bit of both. Ice cream just has a way (laughs) This is an excuse to Mm, okay. Hmm. Wow. That is decadent. So fudgy. So chocolatey without being overly sweet. And absolutely that ice cream in just the right way. It is a match made in heaven (laughs). So good. The other thing I love is they stay really soft for So delicious, they don't get dry. They are just wonderful. And I love how that coffee of the chocolate. You can't taste it in there, And there's two youngsters on this taste test, so Come on guys! Come on, come on! All right, here's your forks. (laughs) Of course she made a surprise entry. Here, let me get you some. Boom! Try that. What do you think? What do Do I get the two thumbs? Do I get the two thumbs? How's it taste? Whoo! (laughs) You like it? - Okay, you can have your own brownie. I got a whole bunch of brownies (laughs). And that's a wrap. Oop, oop. Sorry. She wants her own brownie. Okay (laughs). - Big piece! - Big piece? Which one's the big piece? They're all big. Okay, this one. - I'll also have a big piece. - Which one? That one? Okay. All right. ice cream on top. - These are gonna disappear fast. Always. But you'll be happy if you have leftovers. I'm telling you they're Okay, big scoops, that's I hope you guys enjoy this video and we'll see you next time. (screen beeps) (moans) (laughs)