- So, how did I go from a to a software engineer in six months without dropping 20K on a bootcamp? Well, today I'm here to share my story and hopefully I can give you guys advice if you are about to start this journey. Definitely check out the description box because I'll be leaving all the resources I've used during my journey, and also make sure to for timestamps so in case you or move to the certain in this video, and finally to show this channel some love. And it encourages me to keep (beat music) Let's start off in June, 2016. I had just graduated from college with a political science degree. Yes, I know like political science. What was I thinking Well, quite frankly, I was into law school and become a lawyer and at that point I'd in a financial service firm in their regulatory and This division was filled was to help private equity create compliance programs so we had a lot of amazing and I was so excited to be at this job and to sort of experience if I decided to become a lawyer. Well, five months later, I realized, yeah, I gotta get out of here Like there were many wasn't necessarily a good fit for me. The top three being that, one, I thought the work was Two, the lawyers at the The one thing they always told wanted to be a lawyer of the worst career fields you can go to. They just didn't think that in this day and age given that they had to deal with. Finally, it just was not So when I realized that, working at this job and I I was definitely in a dark place. I had no idea what I Let me give you a little decided to even be a lawyer. So when I was in college, I bounced around doing different majors, like I honestly was confused in college. I had no idea what I Plus I had Nigerian parents who gave me only three career options. They said I could be a doctor, I could be a lawyer, or And because I was really at that age, I decided to But then after taking a lot I realized, ooh, hoo, hoo, Because I was also just bouncing around after deciding not to be pre-med, I also tried a little bit of So I took about three CS courses, which were all intro I really enjoyed those classes, but I wasn't sure about was a good trajectory for it just didn't have a lot of information about what it was like to I decided, okay, you know what, so disgrace is out of the option, being a doctor isn't it for me, okay, let's just go with lawyer. That sounds like a good fit. And I really liked my So going back to where I was at my job, thinking about leaving, so I thought about college enjoyed my CS courses that I decided, hmm, like maybe I should look would be a good career path for me. So what that entailed was me and asking anyone I knew or software engineer all Like I was DM-ing people on Reddit, like talking to people in real life, just trying to get as much information about what it was like to Because at this point in my life, even though I was still listen, I can't keep bouncing about what I want to do in the future. If this is what I want to do, I should see this as like a path that I would be doing for the next 10 to 15 years. I didn't want to take so I wanted to do enough that I was making the right decision. But after doing a lot of research, like I think this is a plus, like if I decide that in the future, there are where knowing how to program could be very useful and helpful. So at that point I was How do I go about this So at that time, looking at my options, I could either get a bachelor's of science in computer science, I could get a master's or I could get, I could do a bootcamp, but I was looking at my bank account, it was looking kind of low, I thought, okay, listen, I already have a little bit of and from talking to it seems like computer that you can actually self-study. Even though it's very difficult, you can self-study and So I thought, you know what, listen, if I really want to do this, let me just go the self-study I just don't have money But after doing research, I came across something First of all, the most important The second most important which you can find on their website. But just to give you a they're a self-directed for software engineers. So if you already know how to program, you can join this community of engineers and spend about three that you want to build. Self-directed means that in terms of there aren't formal Community-based means that by a lot of really motivated or people who are aspiring And most importantly, they which helps connect you in the New York City SF area. As the self-taught engineer, it can be really hard to so having a community and that's going to help you is extremely useful. How did I prepare for The Recurse Center? So every single morning I spent about a couple of hours which means that I use to just sort of like flesh and start building projects. When I had like two I decided, okay, let's go ahead and apply to The Recurse Center and So luckily I got into the program. Because I knew this would I had to be very disciplined So before the program even started, I created a schedule for because like I couldn't I had to get a job after the program or else I would be homeless. So what was my schedule and while I was at The Recurse Center? I can kind of split So the first one was data structures and algorithms. Not only is learning data structures and algorithms important and just programming, it's also really important where you're basically being and algorithms questions. The second plan of action and be able to create a program in Python. Just by doing a little bit of research, I could see that Python was a very popular engineering language and I felt like, okay, let me add that to my toolkit. The third step for me that I could show to employers. Fourth plan of action which was to network and meet essentially as many engineers as possible. So those were the four that I had to do at The Recurse Center. So it was a really Like I was grinding out there, leave late every single I would dedicate to four goals that I had. So by July, 2017, the program was over and I was looking at my oh, okay, so I have about or else I'm going to get my I have to figure this out, right? So how was the interview process for me? I'm going to be honest a lot of interviews. I failed HackerRank test that I was given. I failed phone screens, failed on-sites. I failed a bunch of times, but is that the more you're doing interviews and you're working on interview prep is that you start noticing a lot of patterns Like I got asked the or same couple of types of and after a while, like like I wouldn't feel it I had already seen this question before so like I should already And that's the thing. If you're in the interview just keep pushing. I promise you you'll get a job eventually, as long as you're making sure you understand why you got like that on LeetCode. You'll eventually get it 'cause is something that you can practice for and you can get better, even though there is a lot What are the resources I would So I would recommend that &quot;Cracking the Coding Interview.&quot; Check out that book. If you do that book front and back, you're pretty much set. If you want a little on just sort of interview prep, definitely check out &quot;Elements Another thing that I would I think this is a very popular advice. Go on LeetCode and try to answer as many questions as possible. If there's a certain if you're targeting Google, Facebook, go on their section of LeetCode and just skip all the problems if you can. I know like there can but just try to do as much as possible. I think like 200 is like And then the last tip in the interview process is to do as many mock Like when you're practicing it's not the same experience at all, especially if you're doing the on the computer, a lot of jobs, like that's not how the You have to get a whiteboard. Like guys, I actually have Wait, let me bring it out Get yourself a whiteboard, okay. If you want to practice like I know for a lot of the first round of the interview process, if you get a phone screen and that requires you to and do like live coding. You should check out After failing a bunch of I eventually got a job for the past two and a half years. Thank you guys so much I honestly feel so blessed If you have any questions, definitely feel free to Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you guys next time. (jazzy music)