In the Gulf, women, employed as domestic workers, by Google and Apple. It's been called an online slave market. BBC News Arabic goes undercover in Kuwait It's an unregulated black market depriving leaving them at risk of exploitation and abuse. All made possible by the Silicon Valley tech What they are doing is illegal. If Google, Apple, Facebook or any other company like these they are promoting an online slave market. In Kuwait, 90% of households employ a domestic The government of Kuwait passed a new law Together we are stronger. And imposing stricter regulations on this But it's generated a lot of controversy. These new laws have pushed many to turn to are bought and sold online. All you need is a Google or Apple smartphone. Ann Abunda is the founder of Sandigan. An organisation that fights for the welfare Our BBC team pose as a husband and wife looking to buy a domestic worker. For their safety we cannot reveal their identities. We download an app called 4Sale, the most on the Apple App Store and Google Play. Amongst cars, lawnmowers, and TVs, there's Our undercover team get ready to meet the Our female undercover reporter stays inside This policeman was knowingly breaking the He was trying to sell us his domestic worker, give her a day off. All of which is illegal in Kuwait. Over the course of a week, our undercover It has an inbuilt feature that lets you filter The women cost between $2,500 and $5000 US dollars (or PS2,000 and PS4,000). Under Kuwait's domestic worker law it is day off per week. It's also illegal for the employer to keep But it's not only happening in Kuwait, and In Saudi Arabia we found hundreds of women And on Facebook-owned Instagram we found Many sellers used racist and discriminatory And in most cases, the women had no knowledge Since 2010, Ann's organisation, Sandigan, has rescued thousands of women from abusive households. In Kuwait it's illegal for a domestic worker Ann was never charged with a crime. And since being released from prison she's domestic workers in Kuwait. Under the "Kafala" system, domestic workers then officially registered with the government. Potential employers pay the agencies a fee Under the "Kafala" system, a domestic leave the country without her sponsor's Apps like 4Sale, Haraj and Instagram enable domestic workers to other employers, for a This bypasses the agencies and creates an more vulnerable to abuse and exploitation. A new ad appears on 4sale, an African domestic Our BBC undercover team arrange to meet the Nothing can prepare them for what happens We are shocked to find this woman offering The young girl seems withdrawn and confused. By employing a domestic worker under the age and could face up to six months in prison. She had also confiscated the girl's passport, the house alone, all of which are illegal. This is the quintessential example of modern Here we see a child being sold and traded Urmila Bhoola is the UN special Rapporteur We see coercion and control being exercised What they are doing is illegal. It is not only in violation of national Kuwaiti It is a violation of international human rights We take our video of the young girl to Ann. Ann starts an investigation to see if she protect her identity, we will call 'Fatou'. Hello, hello sir. She alerts the Guinean Embassy to see what The embassy needs her full name in order to Ann asks our BBC undercover team if we can passport details. The passport reveals her surname to be 'Bongono,' city of Guinea. Now that Ann has Fatou's passport she goes She's avoiding going directly to the Kuwaiti Fatou for being in Kuwait illegally. We head to Guinea to see what the police can They don't have any record of her going a policeman who has the same surname as Fatou. Jacques decides to take time off his official family and see if they are aware of her situation. He starts the search among the Bongono community Jacques continues his search amongst the Bongono but no one recognises her. Hundreds of underage girls are trafficked It's a lucrative industry for traffickers, We arrange to meet a trafficker to find out He agrees to talk to us as long as we conceal As we're filming, he spots two girls who See this one too? There was nothing good there. We arrange to meet Nana, Esther and another girl, Biba away from the watchful eyes of the traffickers. Like Fatou, Biba, Nana and Esther were all Biba, Nana and Esther met in prison, after The three girls were bailed out by their families. But it's estimated there are hundreds of We also show them the 4Sale app. Their experiences of being moved multiple times between employers without any choice bear the signs of being bought and sold using the apps. The majority of migrant domestic workers, exploitation in modern slavery. They are in a strange environment, generally to communicate with their peers and live in Here we see an example of how digital technology human rights and to cause harm. Google, Apple and Facebook all claim that on their platforms. Google's Policy Against Modern Slavery, modern slavery in all its forms. Facebook's own community standards say involved in human trafficking on their platforms. And Apple's App Store review guidelines references to religion, race, gender or ethnic But we found thousands of domestic workers language through hashtags used on Instagram in violation of their own guidelines, and Back in Kuwait, Ann is desperately trying Despite sending the Guinean Embassy her passport Ann's colleague doesn't want to appear Now that Fatou's been sold on, there's the Kuwaiti government. It's a move that Ann has been avoiding, In Guinea, Jacques decides to expand his search regions of the country where the Bongono It's a 600 km drive from the capital. We arrive in Mongo, a small market town in Jacques hopes someone here will know Fatou's Word spreads that there is a girl missing, Back in Kuwait, Ann's search for Fatou has With no other options we take our video of they can help find her. Nasser al-Mousawi is Head of the Domestic It's his job to manage complaints and disputes When issues arise, Nasser calls in employers Taking money for the domestic workers, just Actually it has been going on for a long time May al-Tararwah is a lawyer at Social Work domestic workers. I think that the lady is not aware of this She's not aware of it. So, she did it because she felt it's normal how they think. Ten days later, the Kuwaiti authorities contact Ann. There is good news. They have found Fatou. Ann arranges to meet Fatou at the state-run A government official is present and we're There are over 200 domestic workers in this It's intended as a temporary place for them or awaiting deportation. An hour later Ann returns. Fatou told Ann she'd been in Kuwait for But during that time, she had only received Two days later, Fatou was deported back to Kuwait is one of the countries that has by the region protecting domestic workers. Under Kuwaiti law it is illegal to advertise, But despite this legal protection we see a being sold in flagrant violation of law. It leaves us wondering about the extent of to protect workers. And whether in fact any employers are prosecuted As yet, Kuwait has not introduced any new domestic workers. The policeman and the woman who tried to sell and no legal action has been taken against The Kuwaiti government declined comment further Fatou is back in Conakry. Her uncle and grandmother can't afford to adopted family. Fatou didn't want to show her face on camera, Businesses have a fundamental responsibility that under national law and international longer available to the market. If Google, Apple, Facebook or any other companies held accountable. What they are doing is promoting an online The online slave market is still booming. And there are still thousands of domestic Haraj, and other apps available on Google Unless governments enforce their own laws regulations on their users, this online trade to exploitation and abuse. Following our investigation, 4Sale, the app domestic workers section and gave us this Facebook, which owns Instagram, told us: But we found hundreds of posts on Instagram, domestic workers. Haraj, the commodity app used in Saudi Arabia, Google told the BBC: And Apple said: