We are all trapped inside our own heads, and our beliefs and our understandings by that perspective, which means we tell ourselves stories. Right? So here we are There's an infinite number of things but we edit and delete. We choose what to think about, We make up a story ... to make sense of what's going on, and we all get it wrong. Because we're all trying to navigate and we all have our own baggage, but the stories themselves And we all do this, and a lot of the stories The first ones we inherit who of course have their own frustrations, And for better or worse, and then we go out into the world thinking maybe we have to or that we always have to put or that we have some big terrible secret And it's just fiction, it's just stories, and we'd worry a lot less if we realized how seldom they do. (Laughter) So I feel that magic is a great analogy and then mistake that story for the truth, and I've had a 20-year career in the UK staging big psychological and now that's on Netflix. I also have a stage show. I've got my first Broadway show actually Just throwing that out there. No pressure. (Laughter) That should be this year. And I try to do something new which is the dubious art So there was a heyday which was the 1930s. That's why I'm dressed like this, in my most un-TED-like garb. And there was an act, And in the Oracle Act, as I know you have done, would write down secret questions, the sort of questions seal that question into an envelope, and on the outside of the envelope and then roughly And then the Oracle, the mind reader, he wouldn't open it, but he would attempt to divine And if he got that right, for the person too. And the act spread like wildfire. It's a testament, I think, of some powerful figure to life's complex and subtle questions and anxieties. So thank you all of you I haven't seen these. Thank you so much. I will take those now. I should say, probably, In absolute honesty, first of all I can't see They are sealed. You'll know if you wrote one. Secondly, importantly, and nobody is playing along. That's not what this is. Thirdly ... I don't believe for a second that I have let alone any psychic ones. So let's begin. Nope. (Laughter) OK, this -- Oh, nice. OK, this one's interesting. I will start with maybe this one. This one's interesting, There's a sort of an up and down thing, which normally -- not always -- that the person doesn't know so it's normally a question That sort of suggests uncertainty. So I would say it's a lady, age-wise it's a little difficult to tell but I would expect maybe 30s, It says -- and a question it says, &quot;JN, center.&quot; So it's going to be somebody If you think this is you, could you make a fuss? It's a bit difficult for me Hi, give us a wave. So J ... Jane? Jessica? Jessica: Yes. Derren Brown: Which one? DB: Thank you. Just a guess. (Laughter) I'll take it. Alright, so Jessica, but is it a question Jessica: Mhm? Jessica: Yes. Alright. So what did we ask? So am I OK with late-30s, early-40s? Jessica: I'll take it. I'm taking it. (Laughter) DB: OK, so it's important, because we ask different questions Just say, &quot;I'll take it&quot; again. Jessica: I'll take it. DB: Virginia? You're from Virginia? DB: Yeah. So -- (Laughter) I think this is a lady, I think this is a lady I think you're looking at plans, it's whether or not things Just show me your hands. Other sides so I can see fingernails? OK, I think you have a farm and it's whether or not you're going Is this right? Jessica: Absolutely, that's the question. DB: Alright. Great. Thank you. What was the actual question? Jessica: &quot;Will I sell DB: Will you sell the farm? Alright, so look, it's a great question because it's about the future, which means I can give you It means nothing. And a dangerous thing to do -- and if I say yes or no, and it can't not start to affect So a dangerous thing to do. However -- (Laughter) Yes, I think you will sell the farm, because I think you're the sort of person that in the nicest way I think when there are things you want, at the expense of other things that you know you probably would you agree? Educated, you spent a few years in -- Say yes again, the word &quot;yes&quot; quickly? DB: No? DB: California? Berkeley? Jessica: I went to Berkeley, yes. DB: So it's a yes. Oh, and you've been There's just a tiny, tiny little thing Jessica: Yes, I just got back from India. DB: It's a yes from me, I just don't want because it isn't, and you need DB: Have a seat. (Applause) AH, also in the center? AH. This will be a man, a little older, AH, center, stand up for me AH. Hi, let's get Quick as we can, Oh, look at that! Freeze. Keep absolutely still. Are you standing? Where are you? Man: I am standing. I'm not that short. DB: OK. Alright, now you changed that. There was just something Yes or no, have you you're not doing it now, to do with your left or your left leg Man: Yes. DB: Alright. He was giving us Put your weight on your Man: Yes. DB: Take your hand out of that pocket, change hands with the mic Man: Yes. DB: You have a dislocation in the big toe on your left-hand side? Man: Yes. DB: Thank you so much. Great. Can I get the microphone? Can I grab a mic up? Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm going to change mic because, hopefully you can now still hear me? So I'm going to blindfold myself. And I'm doing this now so I don't I can't see where you put your hands. I can't see how you respond I can't see what the people If they know the answers to the question, I won't have those advantages, but strangely, this frees me up, and I want this to free you up as well, so if you didn't write a question but you wish that you had done, you can still take part. The point of writing the question a nice, clear, succinct So if you can just find make it clear and succinct, and I'll try and do this now So just start to form questions &quot;My name is,&quot; whatever that last guy was, and &quot;what's strange about my feet,&quot; So name and question. There is somebody already, because your name is quite clear. Feels like you're OK, let me just ... Allan? Feels like there's an Allan. And you're going to be quite near Feels like it's coming from right there. There's like a man, maybe early 60s, Allan: Yes. DB: You've got a mic? Great, thank you. Allan, just say &quot;stop&quot; when I get to you where to face. Allan: Stop. DB: You a Capricorn? DB: So Allan has something in his head. Now, did you hear it, It's going to be something really tricky. I think with you ... Allan: Yes. DB: It's going to be either -- no it's not. It's access, it's a password Have you got something, just yes or no, Allan: Yes. DB: A computer password, Allan: Yes. DB: Excellent! (Laughter) In that case, I'm going If I get this right, they're all going to know what it is, You will change it, won't you? Allan: Of course. (Laughter) DB: Just say &quot;of course&quot; again? DB: Alright. If it's a word -- just see the password big clear block capital letters, and as you look at it, think for me don't say it out loud, just get a letter in your head Have you got one? DB: OK, stick with that for me. Ah, you changed it, OK. You changed your mind there. I think you settled on a -- I think that's a &quot;B&quot;, yes? Allan: No. I didn't. DB: Then it's an &quot;I&quot;? DB: But you had a B. DB: Yeah, he changed his mind. (Laughter) So see it written there. Just keep saying it Oh, you play drums, don't you. Allan: I do. DB: Just get that out of your head, just focus on this one thing for me. (Laughter) My job is to sell you a story, right? I try and do this to all of you, to one thing that I want you ignore other things and then join up those narrative dots to tell yourself a certain story and this only works because which means we do this every day. We go out into this complex full of a complex and subtle people and we reduce them that fit whatever story and we say, &quot;She's insecure,&quot; And these are just stories like the story You're thinking of selling your company Allan: Correct. DB: Which is something to do with skin? Allan: Yes. DB: Skin care or something like this. Allan: Uh, yes. DB: And I think the reason is that it reminds me at least to the complexity that there's always other stuff and it means we can get less stuck, because we can recognize so we don't need and we can start to see the stories and recognize that life Oh! Your password, where are you? Allan: Right here. DB: Stand up for me. A-r-i-b-o-y? Is that right? DB: Then thank you so much. Thank you. (Applause)