[Ticking] &quot;On the world's first ever supersonic aircraft the world had ever seen, twice &quot;5... 4... 3... 2... 1...&quot; This is a one-of-a-kind supersonic plane. Wait, hold on, we got to go back. in a plane going faster than sound. Why plane, the Concorde, could get from New York to It flew at an altitude so high you could see But then, that all changed... &quot;The Concorde is no more!&quot; &quot;Concorde will never take to the skies again&quot; These planes stopped flying and we never takes 7 hours. But why? What happened to Can we bring them BACK? If you ask NASA, the answer is yes. We supersonic plane that they're building. Here's they could bring back commercial supersonic &quot;Supersonic&quot; &quot;Supersonic!&quot; &quot;Supersonic airplanes&quot; [BOOM BOOM] &quot;X-59&quot; &quot;a new supersonic airliner -&quot; &quot;twice as fast as current airliners - &quot; &quot;twice the speed of sound -&quot; &quot;you're going faster than the Earth rotates!&quot; &quot;it's the only way to cross the Atlantic&quot; &quot;So we're now going supersonic? &quot;You ready?&quot; &quot;I'm ready&quot; &quot;Let's do this. Let's go see a supersonic plane!&quot; When we say supersonic, I know it's faster For comparison, the world's fastest train can 330. Your average Boeing 737 today will cruise at you're at the speed of sound also called reference that's roughly the same top speed 20 years after the Concorde's last flight, NASA we're on our way to go see it... We have entered the land of the planes. Let's do it. We're here at Skunkworks where NASA. This plane is really cool. There aren't that like one of the only teams to ever see it, which we got this shoot if I'm honest, because we just working on this supersonic plane, is there any But there was this very long security clearance weeks ago, you're allowed to come visit on this Is that the plane? This is it! This is the X-59. This plane is beautiful. And weird-looking! In order to understand what NASA's building here, actually works, and the best way to do that is is into as many episodes as possible, okay? This Lego was just the physical embodiment of a simple fact speed. What's this? Oh my there are more in here... Look how thick this instruction What have I gotten myself into. So in the passenger planes looked pretty similar to what &quot;The shape still looks futuristic. It That's Captain Mike Bannister, the former &quot;I flew a total of 22 years. Flying Concorde was an absolute 23 miles a minute, on the edge of space where the sky the earth. You're traveling so quickly that you're got close to her, you could Now I gotta actually build this thing... [LEGO ASMR] [PLANE WHISTLE] Look it's coming together! You can see plane had a long narrow body to streamline air wings to generate lift. It had this funny long takeoff and landing so that the pilots could see... [PURE JOY] See that? And special powerful engines that could handle special paint that discharged heat. wasn't cheap! And tons of people paid lots of money But once you hit the speed of sound, [SONIC BOOM] Let me play that again: [SONIC BOOMS] &quot;Folks are aware that supersonic aircraft make a do hear as a double bang, buh-boom...&quot; If you listen carefully you can hear that [BOOM BOOM] Alright, I need to spend some time building... As the plane flies, it pushes air front and back of the plane. When a plane flies literally cannot move out of the way in time, &quot;and off the front of the airplane and a second wave ears our brains process them as sound. A massive boom doesn't just boom once when the plane hits path of the plane, carpeting the ground below plane hears the sonic booooom. Weirdly though, &quot;There was no indication whatsoever physically on the traveling as fast as the pressure waves are. We put when they were going through the sound barrier &quot;We're coming up to twice the speed of sound!&quot; But for those on the ground, the boom if this is how loud distant thunder is, and this this is how loud the Concorde sonic boom was from loud supersonic booms are, in 1973 the FAA changed flights over the United States and similar companies could mostly only offer flights over the these fuel guzzling engines and rising fuel costs, reception of supersonic flight and finally Air forcing British Airways the only company now stop flying them as well. &quot;And so in early 2003 on announced that they were retiring their Concorde 100 people at British Airways' expense to join us on that this was something that they should really ahead of its time but even as advanced as it was The X-59 is NASA's attempt at fixing the travel at 925 mph or 1.4 times the speed of sound supersonic planes can be quiet. That's Cathy Bahm, leads from Lockheed Martin, Dave Richards and Mike that it's, as long as you are below this sound To achieve this goal, NASA reference design features wings, the very streamlined body, and that narrow &quot;There's no way you can miss our 38 ft nose!&quot; Unlike move, which means the pilot can't see out the front camera at the front that sends a live video feed key to reducing the sonic boom. &quot;I liken it to, pool and what we want to do here is, that splash to make that splash or that sound as as small as remaining boom as possible up, away from people. very very smooth and clean so that anything that makes a shock that would go down, they're all on boom that's still going down, they're going to try that that cannon ball, the biggest splash is when a big shock on the back end of the airplane.&quot; This interacts with that boom, cancelling some of it out. that plane up close. Normally, that is really be this close to this plane?&quot; &quot;Well in the state that it's in get fired but yeah you guys are the first ones to get fired? &quot;No but I already got yelled at.&quot; &quot;So I pushed it enough.&quot; If NASA can help change help everybody. It can open the floodgates to bunch of private companies, including one called pressure is on. It was very clear talking to this &quot;You know this takes a long time to develop and To see something from a concept drawn to fly it, it is a lot of hard work. Really this is is our one chance to get it right.&quot; So in order to had to design the X-59 to have a sonic boom that's quiet is that exactly? &quot;The answer to that question the entire reason why we had to build X-59 and years.&quot; NASA is anticipating that 75 perceived level goal that they're aiming for right now. &quot;The result neighbor closing their car door in front of even hear it at all.&quot; This plane is just amazing. been placed specifically to optimize aerodynamics very special anti-static paint. So you know how you the carpet is like the air. As the airplane moves the airplane, so we have a special paint that's that you don't build that static charge.&quot; But it's going to build any more of these. This is a one demonstration, to show that we can make an an flight.&quot; So NASA's building their supersonic plane are one day going to be able to be translated that can carry more people... but when?When are you supersonic flight finally coming back? &quot;Not soon the regulation process. That'll take a number of communities, and then go through the regulation away from seeing these planes, and claims from of bringing their planes to market by the end of that this is going to happen that three airlines planes. Eighty years ago, we set out on a journey to going fast. We work so hard at it! We build these Just imagine flying on a machine like this. It's is much more than just being extremely cool. For meant greater connection. When our world shrinks more of it. And today, we have an opportunity to but the good thing about that is we can fix what over land is just step one. New supersonic planes fuel like they used to. They'll need to be cheaper. passenger. But we can do this. &quot;It's 20 years now there will be another supersonic airliner offering too distant future.&quot; &quot;The future is so bright and cliche but you can see it!&quot; &quot;That's really exciting.&quot; Okay, I want to show you one more thing. My I miss him a lot and and he actually worked for his stuff we found this pin of his. I've been this episode. And at the end of our visit to see my own pin and uh it just really means a lot thank you so much to NASA. If you like optimistic