- This is me subjecting Oh my gosh. By letting a bedbug eat me. That's my blood! Because for four years now, this exact video taking a deep dive into the fascinating world of bedbugs. There's a lot of fear and miss out there regarding dealing with bedbugs. And today we're going to heading out in the field with the experts, and running some experiments. So if you could power and spend the next few I promise not only to blow about bedbugs you definitely don't know, but I'll make you a bedbugs expert, knowing exactly what they look like, how not to get them, but most importantly, what to do if you do get them. Because the punchline is to get rid of them, as long as you ignore all the bad advice out there, and follow the surprisingly simple steps I'll demonstrate in this video. So let's get right to it. And head across the country, all the way to Rutgers University to visit their urban entomology lab, which basically means bugs to meet with Dr. Wong, the And the main reason for visiting his lab was to run a bunch of experiments you read online that people But before we got to that, I wanted to meet some of - We have thousands of bedbugs here. It's an incubator. Probably more than 20,000. - Oh my gosh. This is like the Fort Knox of bedbugs. Okay, can I pick up one of these? - [Dr. Wong] Sure. - Okay, I cannot drop this, I feel like. - This one probably has four or 500. - Four to 500 in this. - Yeah. You want open it, or you want me to open? (uneasy music) - I'll open it. This is my first time Here we go. (foreboding music) - [Dr. Wong] Do you want to use gloves? - Should I use gloves? - [Dr. Wong] We always use gloves. - I should use gloves then. (cheerful whimsical music) Wow. I just got to go for it. It's like ripping off a bandaid. Oh, gross. Wow. Oh man, there's so many of them. So this is what bedbugs look like. I just never knew. Alright, so let me just It takes a few months for all the way to full grown male and female. And in those few months they pass through these five stages of growth. You could see the relative size here compared to a credit card. And as humans we have five senses, but their superhuman antenna allowing them to detect both being breathed out by a potential host. Then once they get close, they use their sense of to lock down the exact final which is all to say if you on them (exhales), they get real excited. That is crazy. They're so stoked right now to eat. Sorry, guys. Their lifespan is anywhere and ideally they like to but there's this unsettling fact. - Without feeding, they can - What? Because they just - 'Cause blood is a highly So they can stay in the resting stage for three to six months. - [Mark] And the professor But for my first of five if their environment is relatively cold, they can survive up to 300 They're really flat. - [Dr. Wong] 'Cause they're hungry. - So when they're hungry they're going to be more flat? - [Dr. Wong] Right. - I'd love to get a shot of it going from flat - Oh, if you want to do You could see. - Which meant I had a decision to make. Okay, I'll do it. For science. We're going to make a brown bed bug red. - So average feeding time - I feel like I'm at the red cross here. Let's do this. Oh my gosh. Oh. Oh. - [Dr. Wong] Look, it's started feeding. - It's already feeding? - [Dr. Wong] Yeah, this is feeding. - [Mark] So right now I feel nothing. - [Dr. Wong] So you are not - [Mark] The butt's Wow. Yeah, it's getting bigger. And there's just something steal your blood that sharpens to start pondering some questions that probably should And they don't carry diseases, right? I should have asked this- - [Dr. Wong] They don't. - 10 minutes ago. And this is my second they don't actually carry which sort of serves as in the world of coexisting with humans, because the government doesn't really support since they don't really pose When it's done, will it - [Dr. Wong] It will run slowly. 'Cause it is bigger, fatter. - They're easily crawling by the way. - [Dr. Wong] Right, so we in the interior walls I think we have some talcum powder. - You think? This the think is the part Oh gosh, he's moving. - [Dr. Wong] Moving. Okay, finished. - What do I do now? - [Dr. Wong] Nine minutes, finished. Don't worry, I'll put it in a dish. So nine minutes. - [Mark] Normally after I give blood, I get juice and cookies. And when we put my new blood gross, the difference was astounding, which made me really curious under the microscope that begging to be used. Oh my gosh. Wow. Those are my red blood cells. Oh, are those bubbles even? No way. Life is amazing. I don't think I reacted, right? - That's good. So you are - So I could put even - You can try. (&quot;Ride of the Valkyries&quot; - I'm taking one in the name of science, and we're going to load That's one. Two. We've also put some DEET, to kind of make a barrier This is like Thanksgiving. Can you get that one. - [Dr. Wong] Six. - [Mark] Please. - [Dr. Wong] Seven. - Oh, I can feel them - [Dr. Wong] Nine, 10. - [Mark] Okay. - [Dr. Wong] 11. - I said 10, Professor. - [Dr. Wong] One bonus. - Oh, that one's turning red already. Could you imagine just, some people who have a bad Like, this is what their leg looks like. - [Dr. Wong] They could - A night? - [Dr. Wong] Yeah, a night. - They're getting bigger Oh, you better not start mating on me. - [Dr. Wong] This one finished. - Okay, I don't like your attitude. Let's get rid of this guy. Professor, professor. (uneasy music) Professor. As they finish, I vote I don't want him crawling up my arm. He is full, and you're off the island. Oh, and you're off the island. And he's done. Peace. Down to two. This is like a MrBeast's challenge. Last to leave the arm wins Oh, we have a winner! I think it's dead. Oh, there he goes. And so once again, by way of comparison, here are the 11 bedbugs that with me, versus 11 unfed All right, so they're all done feeding. There was 11 total. It took about 10 minutes, they just made a meal out of me. Like, I felt a tiny But other than that, like, it's a tricky little parasite. And I'm not alone. Half of all people have no whereas the other 50% of the population will have some kind of that will look something So having survived the bloodletting, it was time to run our experiments sealed by the huge wooden door. All right, so we're here and we've set up a bunch of tests in here. So for example, in these basically that can climb up the wall. Then they get stuck in this trough. It's too slippery to climb out. Inside each of these troughs, this good smelling stuff that to bedbugs smells like a human. So they're going to go So this one in this corner is a control, whereas in this corner, we have So we want to see if this So at the end of 24 we'll count the number versus this one. If there's way more in the control, then this is actually doing something. But if there's the same number of each, then this is nothing more than a gimmick to steal your money. In addition to testing the we use an identical test some of the other supposed commonly found online, including baking soda, and essential oils. And just for the sake of my curiosity, we also placed this For my super wild bedbug fact the professor told me to vertical objects because humans generally sleep in any given room. So their logic is just crawl until you eventually find a So this is to mimic a bed post. And we do have an The hypothesis is that they in this tray, because you And if that turns out to be And in addition to those six tests, we set up some residual effects tests where we treated a surface with you could buy at the local hardware store, specifically marketed the kill bedbugs. And then finally we also specifically designed Godspeed, little fellas. And then we set it off, of exposed bedbugs at different And so as a final step, at the center of each of the six trays in the bedbug vault, and we were underway. The experiment's all set up, we're going to close the wooden vault, do a final bedbug check, let her run. And now that the experiments were running, Professor Wong invited us to to an apartment building frequent reports of bedbugs. So him and his team were going and to try out some new And after entering the apartment, it didn't take long to - [The bedbug here. - [Mark] Which the - [Dr. Wong] He's dead, yeah. - [Mark] When in fact, By the way, this is a bit of might find the next few So skip ahead a bit if the results of the test. It turns out one in a have bedbugs in the US today, which might sound bad, but for my super wild before 1950, it was one in Hence the origin of the don't let the bedbugs bite.&quot; Midnight to 3:00 AM is typically and it takes a little more a little less than 10 minutes to feed, as you saw with my arm, and to get back to their hiding spot. If you're suspicious you're sleeping on a mattress with bedbugs, in the corners and look for Just remember, this is so yours might not look quite this bad. These two here are actually mating, which we saw quite a bit in the lab too, which actually leads to my and buckle up, 'cause this one's a doozy. Typically in nature, in order you have a male, which, let's say, is represented by this plug and a female, which let's say And if you plug in the cord, you get an adorable little baby. And just like in pretty female bedbugs totally have prefer to take this approach. (hammer bangs) The scientific term for this is called traumatic insemination. And just like my wall is now damaged, it actually damages the leading to significantly Researchers aren't exactly to use this alternate approach, but it must offer some leading females to lay up And you can see their handiwork here on that same chair we saw before. Like all insects bedbugs So what you're seeing here from stage to stage, they molt, and leave behind their old exoskeleton. How bad is this infestation - [Dr. Wong] Yeah, moderate. - [Mark] Moderate? - [Dr. Wong] Heavy ones, you - [Mark] To prove his point, he later sent me a video of this house with the charming exterior, which they had treated a few months ago. The truly staggering part was that only one person lived there. He just wasn't allergic to their bites, and he just learned to live with them. Back at our thankfully the professor and his team took and started treating the room. Unsurprisingly, the apartments also had some minor bedbug issues. So if you're working to get rid of bedbugs in your apartment, just make sure you let your in case the unit next to you happens to be the primary from getting a second wave. And as we were wrapping up, the professor dropped a bit it was pretty likely we had at this point. Even if you can see they, - [Dr. Wong] Yeah, they can, they can. - [Mark] Which is why - [Dr. Wong] Well, actually I always, when I go - [Assistant] These shoes, - What? Nobody told us any of this! We unfortunately, were not told to bring, nor did we have a spare change of clothes. What have I done? So we do the next best which instantly kills the That is, until the professor decided he should check his shoes, and found this. (tense suspenseful music) Is it alive? - [Dr. Wong] Yeah, he's alive. - Oh my gosh, no way. At which point, just steaming ourselves Because apparently it's illegal to just publicly chill in your underwear, me and my crew hit up the local Goodwill to wait things out in style. So the next day, we headed back to the lab to check on our results in But can I just take a to hang out with bug people 'cause they have cool door knockers and interesting magazine subscriptions. The only downside being they like to study more than just bedbugs Aw, it smells. This is where they keep the cockroaches. And as you might recall, I really, really don't like cockroaches. (Mark shrieks) Shamo, get it off me! - [Dr. Wong] Each one - Wow. That's so disgusting. Aw, these are the kind I hate. - These are the American, - [Mark] Their freaking antenna. That's the worst sound in the world. Wait, they have wings? - [Dr. Wong] Yeah, they have wings. In Florida they can fly too, but here temperature is cold. - So if it was a little warmer - [Dr. Wong] They will fly. - Oh my God! Okay, let's get out of here. So we made our way back upstairs, where I felt much more comfortable. Time to check the results. So this ultrasonic pest If anything, it attracted them. We had 120 bedbugs with over here for the control, we had 101. Clearly that does And of course, that considering bedbugs don't even have ears. Not to mention that apartment we visited had a couple plugged So definitely save your money on that one. Next up was the vertical post test. That is wild. There are so many over literally none over And the remaining four tests So I'll just show the average, which was around four bed that was surrounded by either baking soda, or essential oils, with around 26 bugs These results clearly show these four items because they all have and bedbugs have a really but they don't do anything According to the professor, but the bedbugs would if it was between temporarily and starving to death. As for the residual effect specifically engineered to kill bedbugs, it was even worse news. The spray aerosol and all killed about 12% of And before you go all well, 12% is better than nothing, our control, which was just water, also had a 12% mortality rate. So it's literally not better than nothing. According to Professor for these terrible results is have developed immunity to a lot of these And he thinks in 10 years, And this sort of makes sense, because they're constantly undergoing localized mass extinction events, when people try and spray them, and only the most hearty and pass on their increasingly There were some chemicals in killing about 50% if you But if they were just hanging out in the area you sprayed later, it's once again the same as water. The problem with this a small portion of the So direct spray pesticides if your goal is to eradicate That's the bad news. Now here's the good news. There was a superstar in our test, and that was the diatomaceous earth, with a nearly 90% mortality This stuff is just from tiny prehistoric aquatic The key here is their And silica is what you you see sometimes in packages that you're not supposed to eat. Silica's useful because it For bedbugs, this is a bummer it sticks to their exoskeleton, as you can see here And they die from dehydration Oh, we're eating lunch right after this, which is a bad idea in hindsight. The best part here is they to each other back in their hiding spots. And since every organism they can never develop immunity to it. There's also one more and that's bedbugs die at Like, instantly. This is also 100% effective, and there's no way to And a really easy way to as we demonstrated earlier, is with the clothes dryer or a steamer. Or if you want the nuclear option, you could work with professionals to that temperature. Now that we have a and doesn't work, let's talk about what to do And the first thing to to get rid of them is to not And the most common way people get bedbugs is through traveling. So when you get to your room, here are three simple tips. First, pull back the bedsheets and check the corners of the mattress, now that you know what to look for. Second, don't set your suitcase Instead set it on the luggage rack. Or for some reason you feel like you need to be extra cautious, the bathtub. And third, don't put your or leave them just lying around. Whatever you're not wearing or hanging up on the hangers. All right, so you were super careful when staying in the hotel on travel, but then you got back and for a smoking deal, and now In Professor Wong's experience, you don't actually need to spend $4,000 hiring an exterminator as long as you know there's and three for offense. First up for defense, you You can buy these mattress off Amazon, and once you basically seal in any bedbugs Just remember they can So you can't take it off for a year. And they not only trap but they also remove all the spots they love to use. Number two, your clothes dryer, wash and dryer clothes and more often doesn't hurt. Importantly, you want to and dry them on the highest heat setting because it's impossible Number three, simplify de-clutter. Simplify the room to take by putting clutter into They aren't interested in clean clothes, but dirty clothes smell nice to them. So it's good to also store until you're ready to wash them. Also, move your bed away from the wall, so the only way they can get on the bed is by climbing up the legs. So that's the three steps for defense. Now, for the offense. Number one, vacuum. Make sure you vacuum the bedroom floor and the bed area once a week. Just be sure to empty anything and into the trash. And number two, we've which, as you recall, was You should definitely But it's especially useful and crevices close to the bed, including around and behind power outlets. The key is applying just a If you leave it in clumps, and not be as effective, 'cause they'll just navigate around it. And finally at number A simple clothes steamer And I think it's great that spent on creating all the two most effective are just crushed up rocks which are by far the two Use the steamer all around but if you find something you can't steam or put in the dryer, you can put it in a bag and for three days and that Professor Wong said, if you and you just noticed them, then using these three will totally take care of the problem without needing to spend However, if you've got a lot of bedbugs and you've had them for a long time, then getting professional The entire house heating and it's the most sure fire every bedbug, along with But it can cost up to $4,000, depending on the size of your place. Now that you're playing and things are looking good, stick these traps under the and have some peace of mind that they are, in fact, totally gone. All right, that's it. You're a bedbug expert now. I'm hopeful that at a renewed appreciation for the fascinating and everyone else can on making it to the end while soaking in a bathtub of Listerine. This is the world's (launcher snaps) and I invited my nephews just how much more accurate it is than their mere human selves. Wow. And that Frisbee launcher, of course, is just a scaled up replica which also happens to be insanely accurate with all six rapid fire shots. Then there's this coin spinner that also gives you superpowers, this time, to spin a coin That is awesome. And then of course, a mega version, which I also used to dominate my nephews. (disks clanking) Yeah! And if you want to watch both you can find them over on the because this is CrunchLabs. It's an actual place with the world's longest Hot and a bunch more inventions. It's where we not only for my YouTube channel, it's where we design these to help you think like an engineer, too. It says it right there on the box. So you get the box that has or that handheld coin spinner But then when you open it up, where you not only build it alongside me, but I teach you all the juicy And the best part of it all is, every month we randomly select one box to slip in the platinum ticket. If it happens to be your box. - [Dad] Oh my gosh, you won, buddy! - Then you're coming out to design with me and my team for a day. So if you want to unlock a of thinking like an engineer- - It works! - Of learning how to create and build whatever you can dream and order your Build (jaunty music)