To Darius and Parysatis were born two sons, So begins the adventure book called the of Cyrus' by Xenophon the Athenian. In this mercenaries travelled far to the east to help but instead found themselves isolated and far hostile territory in the heart of Iran. We will thriller, from the incursion into Persia, to the and the epic fight in the service of the Thracian the story of Xenophon and the 10,000 and the ATHENIAN SUN, SPARTAN MOON: BACKGROUND: of Cyrus, we must first understand its author, Xenophon was an Athenian statesman and mercenary Sokrates amidst the turmoil of the Peloponnesian Spartan political system. Most notably, he was one the heart of Persia, making his thrilling tale of was clearly a deeply religious man, made apparent examining the virtues and vices of the characters written is unclear; some consider it to be a form him as a Medizer, ergo culturally compromised ideas and reflection of his actions during the Others point out how Xenophon uses events in the campaign, such as piety or breaking oaths. Persia to fight and was possibly seen through political beliefs, which were more oligarchic than thus asked his teacher, Sokrates, who sent him as ever, and eventually, ignoring a cautious land where Yazatas and Ahuras are said to reside. was keen to take over the throne of Persia speaks highly of the young Prince's prestigious and arrow. As satrap in Asia Minor, Cyrus had and so had little help in making his case for pool of support to draw upon. His involvement in left him with Hellenic connections, whose hired along with his local nemesis, the satrap his battles for him came from all over Hellas; Myrioi, or the Ten Thousand. This group, which Xenophon amongst them, was to help him take the Myrioi set off from Sardeis to deliver much like the Persian Yazata of the Moon, Mah, Bovine Gavaevodata. It must have seemed an adventure for glory and money in an eastern a part of the eternal fratricides of Persian the Persian national epic written by Ferdowsi. The army that set off from Sardeis was also 1,000 Paphlagonian cavalries, 700 Spartan 60 chariots with scythes, as well as a contingent first stretch of their springtime march, they of food. This created tensions in the army, which the Spartan Klearchos, faced rebellion amongst the they were not being sent to a rebelling province King of Kings of Persia), which made them this mutiny was flogged by Klearchos, but this more pay by Cyrus was enough to dissuade further take supplies from fish in the river, but the thus refused to let the Greeks do so. Afterwards, river and finally began collecting food and of his upstart brother's rebel force and amassed 40,000 troops, as well as 150-200 scythed chariots take at a site north of Babylon called Cunaxa. Upon approaching the battlefield, Cyrus initially expected the battle to begin there. ordered his troops around it. Klearchos moved shielded by the Euphrates river. Next to them Cyrus headed the centre with his 600 heavily-armed general Ariaios. Opposite the young rebel their royal scion positioning himself dead centre. cavalry, and next to them was the heavy cavalry Egyptian cavalry, and surrounding Artaxerxes was Both armies were situated next to the Euphrates was. Early in the afternoon, the battle commenced. prompting Cyrus to move to the right flank to where his brother was. Klearchos refused to follow on the other side of the field as too risky to announcing the auspicious omens of victory from prompting an enthusiastic Cyrus to return to war song towards the enemy. A part of the phalanx they were marching too fast and were excited, the cohesion of the unit, shouting the name of their hoplite shields, struck fear in the hearts the Greeks chasing them swiftly and mercilessly. but the Greeks responded by merely sidestepping centre as he moved forward, but the left flank was to lack fo discipline). As such, Artaxerxes sent Cyrus understood the strategy and ran against him Artaxerxes' royal bodyguard and caused them to his brother, which struck Artaxerxes in the chest the leader of the Royal Guard, Artagerses. threw it towards his treasonous brother. The Saltiphernes. Cyrus's guards began to chase after his own. The remaining guard engaged to save or the lesser heavenly and infernal creatures Mazda and Angra Mainyu or the good and evil in this brawl that Cyrus himself was mortally called Artapatis jumped off his horse to save this was possibly a ritual suicide. Xenophon, his benefactor, sings the praises of Cyrus as The Artaxerxian Persians then managed right flank around the back and encircling and Cyrus' concubines began fleeing for their unaware of the fact that their patron was dead. the river's left. They took the hill easily, to check on the situation. The Greeks thought the Prince of Persia, their patron and paymaster, the rebels began to disperse in chaos and King. The generals of the Greeks were scared for home. We must imagine the Hellenic army, deep led into a doomed battle against the King of in the ancient world's greatest superpower. measure would be to try to talk to Artaxerxes and * UNDER PRESSURE: THE GENERALS The Persians sent an envoy who said they could for the Greeks to do anything else, they seemed optimistic about a peaceable outcome, be let go. Tissaphernes also seemed keen providing them with food for them to have their Halloumi was being prepared, the Persians asked and Klearchos went to meet with Tissaphernes. Klearchos explaining that they didn't know that &quot;And if, ever seized with rage, we wished to or, having killed our benefactor, to go flourishing of his forces, always expecting and how many hopes they would be deprived of, if I will speak to you about this immediately. I did so because I thought he was the most capable I see that you have under your power that you are now saving your Authority, and that as his enemy, you now have as your ally. mad as not to want to be your friend?'' for the Greeks, while showing that Artaxerxes was need be and but also warnings of sycophants &quot;But why, then when it was easy for us to destroy this is my ardent desire to be seen as a friend with which Cyrus went up, you bought his trust to the shores mighty, winning his trust in me for useful to me, you spoke. You only omitted one, the Because the king alone has the right to wear it of you present here can carry it easily. (...)As and captains, I will show you all those who ________________________________________ negotiations and to reveal the culprit and sent Proxenos, Menon, Agias and Sokrates. However, the three virtues that Herodotus cherished treacherous play, the satrap sent forth a arrested the shocked Greek generals. They were spends some time discussing who these men were and Modern scholars often see this as Xenophon their place as the leader of Greek survivors. congregated and elected new leaders, Xenophon the warrior-turned-author proposed something a daring retreat. In a charismatic speech to his survival, given that they were pious to the Gods that too much equipment would slow them down in but the bare necessities be destroyed, including and the army began to march back north, trying Their goal was to reach the Carduchian mountains rearguard was under the command of Xenophon, the Spartan Cheirisophos, one of the newly elected Xanthikles, Kleanor, Pheilisios and Xenophon and tried to march through while the Carduchians and after resting, the Greeks began their equipped with slingshots, began to terrorise the they were trying to gain control of the high duress from the Carduchians. Xenophon considered but Cheirisophos considered this unnecessary, essentially taking a hill, regrouping and let some people behind to defend the hills as Xenophon considered setting up some defences lost the first hill and were being chased by the people passed slowly through various small routes, Eventually, they reached a relatively safe and Xenophon buried their dead with full strategy. Not having a guide was a difficult continue on the next day. As they did so, they but managed to fight them off thanks to the Cretan they at last reached the end of the which was the separation between Armenia and but still had seven stadia's worth of distance and Chaldaean horsemen were stationed, presumably mess halls. That night, Xenophon had a dream that who proceeded to fall down and let him run fast good omen, and during breakfast two young men did provisions and clothes in a cave nearby the river. the river and Xenophon using a difficult pass to plan, as Cheirisophos attacked the soldiers Xenophon used this opportunity to move towards behind. Cheirisophos managed to take the hills towards Xenophon, who positioned himself near the an attack and promptly destroyed the enemy troops. Astghik, the Armenian goddess of beauty, her guests Aphrodite of the Greeks and Anahita of territory. The local satrap, Tiribazos, approached peaceful terms with them for their passage. through the cold lands of Armenia. Tiribazos them with his army in case they misbehaved or armies. The mountains were cold and treacherous, up passing through them and into a snowy valley. who claimed Tiribazos was following them to attack saw an enemy camp, which they swiftly conquered. hospitable to them, a tradition that is common to and the Balkans. It was here that Xenophon Armenians with procuring the necessary horses for they continued, but Cheirisophos was so angry at into villages and beat him, even though the guide The next day, the guide was gone, and Xenophon the Ten Thousand continued until they reached the Taochians resided. The Taochians were a martial of which was by a pass they had to go through to during the dinner mess, with Cleanor mentioning but Xenophon counselled that this would cause narrative of his own achievements seems to be have been to justify his actions and mistakes seen in a negative light constantly. including Cheirisophos agreed, and the next day, and another to go through the pass. Cheirisophos defeating them on the first push. The Taochians into two, one going down to defeat Cheirisophos the ridge. However, the ridge Greeks fought to flee. After five days of a long march, the were without supplies. The locals, civilian and who were bombarded and had to retreat. Seeing this was still behind in the rearguard, to arrive. It supplies of the enemy, and a Greek as cunning tree and distracted them, jumping back and forth at him. Eventually the volleys ran out and the fight then was simple, as they broke through and many civilians jumped off the cliffs in an beneath. The Greeks took a few prisoners * THE SEA! THE SEA! ON POSEIDON'S GUESTHOUSE: the Greeks passed through more treacherous Scythinians. The former were apparently very Eventually, the wealthy Silver-Mining City of guidance to the Euxeinos Pontos, or for us, the days, but the march went through an enemy city of Greeks promptly did so, and continued. Finally, Greek history owes its debt to. The Greeks sight of the sea, causing Xenophon to were attacked. As they reached the top however, THALATTA! THALATTA! We can only imagine how happy the Greeks even if it was not the Aegean, after months land of a thousand Gods. Thanking the guide and they proceeded through to the land of Colchis, Greeks, in need of provisions, looted the nearby help of the local enemies, the Macronians. The reached the city of Trapezos, a Hellenic colony friendly territory, the Ten Thousand rejoiced in the Greeks held athletic games, a custom as old conducted sacrifices to Herakles and Zeus. It is though the Greeks didn't know they would still home. The soldiers listened to Cheirisophos, them with long ships. As the Spartan left, the a proposal as old as any mercenary's tale; to The mercenaries did as they requested not once thinking that they could, perhaps, be not had enough ships for everyone to return, they the women and children, as well as the eldest back to Hellas. The rest of the Hellenes they decided to march across the shore. religiosity comes to the fore, as he discusses Greece with parts of the bounty from the raids on Xenophon was to retire and build a sanctuary in emulation of the Ephesian temple to the same entire city to partake in, with Xenophon as the beautiful groves were planted to make the temple and the local citizens provided a tenth of the feast. Xenophon's religiosity may be due to or it could be due to genuine gratitude for having or even a sort of justification for his also provided a tenth of the booty to the * KHERSONIAN ODYSSEY; ON THE WAY TO SINOPE: the northern shores of Anatolia. Moving the land of the Mossynoecians. The locals passage on one very familiar condition; to the way. The Ten Thousand were so good after the foes had fled. They thus divided the and continued on their way to find Sinope. they again held games in honour of the Olympians. received by the Ten Thousand, giving them advice to go by sea, but this would require going who may not be friendly towards them. The soldiers agreed to take the sea route. The Sinopeans agreed order to ensure their speedy expedition to Greece. amongst the Ten Thousand had begun to question Boeotian, Thorax, was constantly bickering with word. As the men began to act restlessly, unsure to defend himself. His speech implored them to I hear, soldiers, that someone is bringing a deceive you and lead you to the Phasis. In the and if it appears that I am guilty of wrong, I penalty; but if it appears to you that my accusers in such manner as they deserve. You doubtless where it sets; likewise, that if a man is to while if he wishes to go to the lands of the direction, that is, toward the east. Now is there by maintaining that the place where the sun rises sets is the one where it rises? Again, you surely out of the Euxine to Greece, while the south the saying is, `When the north wind doth blow, is it possible that anyone could deceive you into am going to put you aboard, you may say, when it you on a hundred at least. How, then, could I did not choose, or deceive you into following and bewitched by me and we have come to the you will perceive, likely enough, that you are will be one lone man, while you, the deceived, hands. Then how could a man bring down by planning in that way for himself and for you? and the soldiers soon agreed with him. They had the ringleaders punished. The narrative is author of the text which we are discussing. We see his virtues and honesty as guarantees of his skills, certainly products of his aristocratic insight into the psyche of Xenophon, and his * HOMAGE TO PAPHLAGONIA: CONCLUSION but had yet to satiate their nostos, himself to be a capable leader, but his Ten Thousand began to sail towards Paphlagonia. Trojans in the Iliad, was actually rather Ten Thousand. The Generals of Paphlagonia starlight feast replete with ritual sacrifices. such as the dance of Sitalkas, a Thracian hero, The next day, the Ten Thousand agreed to pass thus went to the Greek colony of Sinope. As they arose as to who would be ideal to manage the rest about whether it was proper for Lacedaemonians to the use of land or sea routes also ensued, and as the army was split into three, each with different ships to pillage the nearby Bithynians on the his troops began to march to the city of the decided to go to the border of Thrace and Heraclea The first group launched their first raids in but some Thracian peltasts struck back, showering to Kalpis and settled there. Meanwhile, when local elders who told him what had happened. the Arcadian contingent and camped near the port after drinking bad medicine, an unceremonious regroup and try to go home together, but before the sacrificial signs they sought were not for concern. Xenophon, who was accused of rigging him to be exploiting them for his ambitions, leave their supplies and go to a proper spot to were trapped in Thracian territory and considered supplies via looting nearby villages; but were who had arrived in the area. That night, during the fear of another attack caused the Greeks to a defensive position, and after collecting and they once again found Persian troops sent by Finally seeing good entrail signs, Xenophon the vanguard to fill in any gaps. The soldiers canyon where the enemy lay, mounted on cavalry. who marched forward on horseback to chase them the infantry of the Greeks moved forward with began to run away at the sight, and the Kleandros returned with two triremes, but after a trying to steal some sheep. Kleandros was head of his lochos, Agasias. A furious Kleandros and after some debate, the spirits calmed GOLD-TOWN: EXPEDITIONS AND MADNESS the deity of the Thracians, were having Greek their destination. After lodging in Chrysopolis, the Ten Thousand continued on their way. However, have been laughing because before he died, he had who at the time was on an expedition against Thousand would assist Anaxibios in his campaign, and he tried to send them away with promises of in the region that their capture meant they could The Ten Thousand were furious and chasing the traitorous Spartan. Xenophon, who had and was prepared to go home, intervened once more already a lot like a Greco-Persian soap opera, interested in the deal with Anaxibios, as he was arrival of the Spartan Harmost Aristarchos, and reminding him of the agreement. So, in revenge, Pharnazabos' satrapy. Xenophon agreed to this assistance from the local Thracian lord Seuthes. Xenophon and his soldiers gain some territory provisions for his campaign against Pharnabazos. collection, but trouble was afoot. There was promised, which caused the mercenaries to accuse accusation and deflected the blame onto an Seuthes was begging Xenophon to stay and continue ask the Olympians whether or not this was a good consulted through sacrifices once more, whereupon to them leaving Thrace. This was good timing, presently retaking the territory the Greeks were the general went to Seuthes and demanded enough armed with money and provisions, the Greeks began the money fairly amongst the troops, enabling * THE FINAL GREEKDOWN: JOURNEY'S END: Athena, Goddess of War and Wisdom of the Greeks, upon their ships and sailed once more to the Here the locals received them eagerly, providing in Lampsacos, an oracle called Eukleides was a sacrifice to the God Apollo. Eukleides but Zeus, who was not allowing him to return home. had forgotten to offer sacrifice to the Father of Ten Thousand then continued to move to the south then crossed Mount Iden, and moved to camp in the It was there that the Ten Thousand, as came across their final challenge when they heard was dwelling in the valley. This was a very Ten Thousand's final journey home. All Xenophon and he could capture Asidatis, his family, and he always did; try to double-check with the Basis the Heleian, checked the entrails and gave dinner with his comrades, presumably of souvlaki Xenophon took his favourite captains and set forth The Ten Thousand arrived at around midnight, out with her entourage of shades. Unfortunately and soldiers at night, most of whom escaped the perimeter of Asidatis' estate and laid siege height and the spirited defence of the personnel approach by trying to dig below it. This failed as a spike and murdered one of the assailants the tower could not attack further, and the it was Itamenes who came to their aid with the them gain the upper hand. The attackers used slaves of Asidates, and then Xenophon proceeded The defenders were constantly barraging them caused the Greeks much distress. They received region on behalf of the Persians, and Gongylos, It was thus that Asidates's cattle and wealth, as Xenophon offered sacrifices to the Gods once would return and capture him, escaped from his the Greeks were as shrewd as their hero Odysseas his location and seized him, his wife and his The Greeks returned to Pergamon, where who were there on a campaign against the who had just arrived with his troops, welcomed them heartily. Xenophon then any of his troops who wished to join the proceeded to fight against Tissaphernes though we may suspect that Xenophon continued Hellenica, describes these battles in detail. the final paragraph, Xenophon gives us an The governors of all the King's territories that Artacamas of Phrygia, Mithradates of Lycaonia of Phoenicia and Arabia, Belesys of Syria and Tiribazus of the Phasians and Hesperites; Macronians, Colchians, Mossynoecians, Coetians, Corylas governor of Paphlagonia, Pharnabazus of Europe. The length of the entire journey, upward one thousand, one hundred and fifty parasangs, or stadia; and the length in time, upward AS YOU GO OUT ON THE ROAD TO ISFAHAN: THE END adventures probably continued under Thimbron and a Spartan king arrived, the fabled Agesilaos, likely campaigned together until 394 Sparta. Xenophon settled in an estate granted living a comfortable life supported with money fighting on the Spartan side in the Battle of city, which perhaps is a motivation for his Eventually, in 371 BCE, after the Battle of after which, according to the much later where he died in 354 BCE. In the later stages of as leadership and the histories of Hellas, as well or the Education of Cyrus the Great. This text the Shahanshah and how this defined his Medes and Persians. Xenophon's philosophy, and his martial experiences, meant that he had his Enkomion, or Praise of Agesilaos, makes the ideal ruler. He also had his son go through where Spartan children lived through a harsh, such, Xenophon was an anti-democrat, instead meritocratic systems of Persia under Cyrus and Xenophon provided us with some of the best city-state, as his Polity of the Lakedaemonians of the society worked in terms of military, The mercenary, philosopher, enterprising is just as well known as Thucydides and Herodotos, terms of his political philosophy by contemporary Xenophon is both emotional in its tension and unique storyline structure, it reads as much like with drama, conflict, and interpersonal struggles as a treatise on leadership or as a treatise we can propose that it gave us an insight into the overview of Persia, Mesopotamia, and Anatolia, fanciful yet surprising anthropological insights, in the presence of mercenaries. It is, as such, also a tale of the philosophical development of a Thracian, and an Anatolian tale as it is a who set the wheels in motion, it would not the mercenaries would not have survived. in the text, perhaps it is the journey that Xenophon. We must thus end our tale with Persian Sufi poet who resided in Nishapur who his 'Conference of the Birds' would find This ocean can be yours; why should you dew? The secrets of the sun are yours, but in its beams. Turn to what truly lives, the body or the soul? Be whole: Rumi and Xenophon would also find agreement Greek poet Constantine Cavafy. A a stranger in a strange land with a Cavafy's poem 'Ithaka' is something that Keep Ithaka always in your mind. Arriving there journey at all. Better if it lasts for years, wealthy with all you've gained on the way, More videos on the history so make sure you are subscribed and pressed subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals