The man known to history as Emperor Marcus April 121 AD in the city of Rome, the capital Born to the praetor Marcus Annius Verus and time of relative peace and stability within At this time, he was known as Marcus Catilius line. His father, part of the Annius clan originating of Rome as part of the patrician class and This was a title which conferred administrative of consul. Marcus was serving as praetor when he died Given that he had not yet been appointed to of entry of thirty-two, he died young however His mother Domitia came from a wealthy patrician her father Calvisius Tullus having served Domitia had inherited great wealth from her and brickworks on the outskirts of the city, the "building boom" of Rome and Domitia Following what had become Roman custom for given over to the care of a wet nurse, a practice the eminent historian. A year or two after Marcus' birth, the exact his sister Annia Cornificia Faustina. Marcus was raised by his mother and paternal who officially adopted the young Marcus. It was because of his grandfather's ambition subsequently admitted to the patrician class reign of 69 to 79 AD. In his meditations, Marcus would later write Verus: I learned decency and a mild temper". His early years were spent in the houses of hill, one of the seven hills of Rome. A wealthy district which looked north across buildings such as the Lateran Palace and the horse guards. His maternal great-grandfather, possibly step-great-grandfather in his upbringing, and it is believed that Although he was cared for by nurses and had played a large and influencing role in his It is perhaps from her, a vastly wealthy member humility from the way that she, despite her displays, common to the elites of Rome. He would write of her, "From my mother: of wrongdoing and even the thought of it: habits of the rich". Marcus was a solemn child, and perhaps it led to his later interest in philosophy and Whilst still a young boy at the age of six education, Marcus was enrolled in the order This official induction into the order of means of wealth but also a further requirement. Under Augustus the order of the senate and by categories of wealth; the order of the of 100,000 denarii and the order of the senate But the equestrian order was also further Anyone who qualified with the property requirement eques, but only those granted the equus publicus and hold the title of equites equo publico. Thus, by Hadrian's actions was Marcus admitted was unusual for admission, it was not unique. When he was old enough to leave the care of a varied education, following the elementary He received instruction on literature and Latin pronunciation and elocution and possibly At the same time, he was admitted to the priestly meet both requirements which were to be a to have both living parents. Either the formal adoption by his grandfather latter requirement and may show special favour Associated with the worship of Mars, Marcus including involvement in the Quinquatrus or ceremony of the campaigning season in March processions that accompanied the ceremonies. Marcus rose through the ranks of the priesthood time that an omen pertaining to his future their crowns on the banqueting couch of the on the brow of the god Mars, as if he had random places. Marcus' secondary education at the grammaticus, and he would learn music and geometry from Cotiaeum and Latin from Trosius Aper, Pollio The emperor Hadrian nicknamed him Verissimus to his studies. A further tutor, Diognetus the painting-master introduce philosophy to the young Marcus, in his meditations. So influenced was Marcus by this way of thinking the austere life of a philosopher, adopting until his mother intervened and with reluctance At this early stage it appears to be the austere to. At fourteen years old, most likely during the toga virilis or dress of manhood and became Upon receiving the toga virilis he would wear the amulet worn about his neck since childhood; ceremony nine days after his birth. Now he would shed the name Catilius Severus Taking this step into manhood proclaimed him in public life despite his continuing education. A short time after Marcus assumed the toga away from Rome had taken an active interest be betrothed to Ceionia Fabia, the daughter Ceionius was a serving consul in 136 AD and an honorary prefect of Rome during the feriae This festival took place outside of Rome in within the city to carry out their administrative these duties would allow the consul to be Despite his age, Marcus conducted himself and in attendance at Hadrian's banquets. This newfound connection with Ceionius would former tutor of Ceionius and a leading Stoic Also around this time, Marcus' sister married Showing an early reflection of his generosity, to take part of the inheritance left to him stated that he was happy for her to take it of her mother's estate so that Annia would Marcus, who was obviously not inclined to said he was content with the fortune of his In the closing months of 136 AD the fate of Hadrian suffered a haemorrhage and almost With no children, Hadrian was faced with the He made his choice and officially adopted To many this seemed an odd choice and given appeared based on his personal feelings towards Years earlier however, in 118 AD Avidius Nigrinus apparent involvement in a conspiracy to murder Had he lived, there is some merit to the idea heir, and as Ceionius had married Nigrinus' way of making up for his earlier actions. Although, it is somewhat more plausible that and connections, which Marcus with his own And so, the matter was settled but not without who had been candidates to be his heir to Among them Servianus, Hadrian's ninety year Fuscus Salinator. Although Servianus complied with the request, openly curse Hadrian, saying "May he long ended his own life. However, Ceionius' succession was not to The senate had expressed their disquiet with impression from the outset, Hadrian decided service. Ceionius was dispatched to Carnuntum in the Pannonian provinces to quell unrest that had their allegiance to Rome. It was a short tour and Ceionius returned to make a speech to the senate on the first home, he was taken ill and died later the likely from tuberculosis. Once again the problem of succession arose come to fruition, Hadrian was in ill health was forced to deal with the issue that had After suffering a disturbing few weeks, he of January, which was his sixty-second birthday, Hadrian then named Aurelius Antoninus as his As a condition of his adoption, Antoninus and his nephew by marriage Marcus. But as with the adoption of Ceionius, Antoninus' Antoninus lacked experience and seniority was said to have "caused pain to many", Catilius Severus who had served as consul to him in serving his second term. It was found that Severus had his own plans was subsequently removed from office to be undistinguished in the political life of Rome. The formal adoption of Antoninus took place of Marcus and Lucius. The boys were then known as Marcus Aelius Commodus. Antoninus, at the request of Hadrian, betrothed the familial bonds. Perhaps it was because of his unassuming nature, that when Marcus found he had been adopted been appalled and only with great reluctance to a private house owned by Hadrian. And so it was, that arrangements were made into public life when he was appointed to 139 AD, alongside Antoninus who would be consul As an heir, holding office would not have position of quaestor was twenty-four and Marcus requested that Marcus was to be exempt from And yet despite being elevated not only in imperial family, Marcus was unaffected by generous young man from his younger years. However, by now Hadrian's health was failing own life. As his condition deteriorated, he became violent, coast. Antoninus was left to govern Rome but soon Hadrian when he was near to death. Antoninus was by his side when he died on Immediately following Hadrian's death, it funeral arrangements. Back in Rome it was left to Marcus to make death and possibly arrange the public funeral, his own volition in Hadrian's honour. His aunt Faustina, on the instruction of the he should end his betrothal to Ceionia Fabia much younger daughter of Antoninus and Faustina, This would require her current betrothal to Marcus consented but they would not be married Later in 138 AD, Antoninus would be involved deified, although much of the ruling class in forcing the motion through, thus securing Following the official funeral, he won over of Hadrian's final acts, for which he was name may also have related to his act of entering Verus. And so, the job of governing the empire went Antoninus was consul in 139 AD, along with within the ruling class but in general the Marcus took his position as quaestor as planned, emperor's letters in the senate when Antoninus Antoninus conferred many honours onto the as consul for 140 AD, although still well office, Antoninus was to serve as his colleague. As well as this, he received the appointment and by right of his new standing was head In recognition of his position within the the time of his accession, to Marcus Aelius By order of the senate Marcus was also inducted Although the power of the Caesar was not yet and would later write, "see that you do the purple dye - for that can happen". While he was willing to accept the responsibility allow this newfound position and power to reinforced when, in line with his position, palace on the Palatine at the request of Antoninus. Further honours and positions followed but his education. Marcus had many tutors throughout the years had begun once he assumed the toga virilis. In Greek he was tutored by Annius Macer, Caninius oratory he was tutored by Cornelius Fronto, to have tutored him before his adoption by He was also tutored in Law by Lucius Volusius Philosophy was not omitted from his education returned to Rome at the request of Antoninus Although when summoned to the palace he retorted, but the pupil to the master", and so Marcus in Rome, although how much of this was related is unclear. In a series of letters between Marcus and well-known advocate, he gives the impression to his tutor for his instruction and at times, and determined to learn from. In one letter he expresses anxiety over writing But he also frequently expressed his affection been caused pain due to his travelling to for a time, he was even willing to forego further pain. Marcus was a studious boy but equally wasn't In another letter to Fronto he describes a the men of the vineyards at one of Antoninus' But even the serious Marcus allowed himself In a further letter he tells of riding down of sheep blocking the way. A shepherd commented to be aware of the horsemen on his mount and rode at the sheep who scattered The shepherd threw his crook which missed In 140 AD he took his position as consul, The consulship was a senior position amongst his duties would take a leading role in helping It was here that his education in statecraft and positive influence on his life, seen later father. He was likely present in his role as consul and Dacia, and although not militarily inclined him in some way on matters of war. During the closing stages of the year the involved in preparations for her state funeral Marcus' early exposure to political diplomacy him well when he found that Herodes and Fronto were advocating. In correspondence to both men, he made his character even when defending themselves. Fronto agreed in some fashion but pressed with but could be done so without character Even including a lesson in the form of a slight rather than writing it himself. Both men, regardless of their feelings towards 143 AD, although Fronto, as a novus homo or for the months of July and August. During this time Marcus was once again away 145 AD saw Marcus become consul for the second During this term he would have a hand in dealing to Fronto in a letter about the amount of Lucius, Marcus' adopted brother likely received little of his early years are known. In April, Marcus and Faustina were married the confarreatio ceremony would have been the image of the couple were struck in commemoration. Although he was generally always eager to subjects and would express his dissatisfaction And so, by around early 147 AD, at twenty-five come to an end and his interest in philosophy Apollonius but also by Quintus Junius Rusticus, tyranny. But it was Marcus' interaction and friendships amongst others, that alongside philosophic Another prominent influence was Sextus of public career. Marcus would continue to attend his lectures, Each of these men would feature in the first prominent influences, where Marcus describes But 147 AD would do more for Marcus than allow as his first child with Faustina was born She would go on to bear at least another thirteen was common for the time many would not survive. The day following the birth, Faustina received tribunician power and imperium, and whilst a period of military service such was not Antoninus himself had little experience in necessary for Marcus. Neither Antoninus nor Marcus would undertake emperor. In 148 AD Rome celebrated its 900th anniversary At around the same time in the east, a new come to cause trouble for Marcus in his own The year 149 AD was to mark the start of a who gave birth to twin sons. Their births were celebrated and the children but by the end of the year both infants had mausoleum. Another girl was born the following year. Although Faustina gave birth to several sons coinage of the latter year depicts only two Marcus would suffer a further loss when his date is not recorded, his mother Domitia would Three further children, a son and two daughters, again his son wouldn't survive. Throughout this tumultuous time Marcus maintained surviving documents there is no trace of any Apollonius had taught him that loss should During this period, Lucius held his quaestorship both before reaching the required minimum the honours. The adopted brothers had different personalities, described as carefree, with a great love for and appeared to find such spectacles rather been rivalry between the two. Marcus' responsibilities likely increased the consulship with Lucius, however early illness. And so, the empire was to pass to Marcus. However, when being confirmed by the senate Lucius was made joint emperor alongside him, also so the burden of rule would be shared. The senate agreed. Although Marcus had performed his public role to this way of life but given his education reluctance, his sense of duty won out. The adopted brothers ruled jointly, Marcus senior emperor, Lucius as pontifex. From then on they would be known as Imperator and Imperator Caesar Lucius Aurelius Verus The praetorian guard, the personal bodyguards In 41 AD they'd assassinated Caligula and to be assured and so following a precedent promised the praetorian guard 5000 denarii This would mark the first time Marcus would in this case by the praetorians. Marcus would go on to be hailed Imperator of ten times during his reign. Arrangements for Antoninus' funeral and the senate and his ashes were interred in Following the ceremony of deification, Marcus to Lucius, although she was yet too young Later in August, Faustina gave birth to another However, the early untroubled months of their During the latter part of the year, the river drowning a great part of the livestock, causing of malaria within the city. Communities affected by the famine were relieved of the treasury but an earthquake at Cyzicus The Tiber had a history of flooding but although protect the city, nothing was ever seriously but never fully solved the problem. Coupled with these disasters the eastern fringes The Parthian king Vologases IV, who had ascended which was under the protection of the empire, of the Parthian royal family in his place. In his capacity as governor of Cappadocia, Armenia but became trapped by the Parthian He tried to fight but realising he couldn't was massacred. The trouble was not confined to the east however and Raetia had been invaded by the Chatti. Marcus and Lucius had no military experience in matters of war, an area of their education Marcus, understanding the need for knowledgeable with T. Varius Clemens, a man with a long The reorganisation of key positions continued the deceased Severianus, who was in turn replaced Fronto's son-in-law Aufidius Victorinus Three full legions and some detachments were to reinforce those in the east, but Rome suffered with the invasion of Syria. At some point during late 161 to 162 AD the war, chosen supposedly because he would be physical robustness, although perhaps also Marcus would remain in Rome, as the empire But Lucius wasn't to go alone, he was to and M. Pontius Laelianus Larcius Sabinus, who was appointed comes Augustorum - companion His experience made him someone that Marcus eastern theatre. Marcus would also send his first cousin M. governor of Syria and act to oversee Lucius' Lucius set off later in 162 AD, with Marcus but when Lucius later fell ill, Marcus rushed It was thought that Lucius suffered a mild journey eventually arriving at the Syrian Statius Priscus, in the meantime, arrived and in the taking of Artaxata, the capital However, he disappears from official chronicles Finding the war to be a strain Marcus continued replies reassured Marcus that the fortunes had many times before. On the other hand, Lucius appeared to be enjoying in the fighting, he spent much of his time in frivolous activities. Far from having the reforming effect that most of his time away from Rome, going so However, he would take a leading hand in the lazy in the face of years of peace and taking camp life. Perhaps persuaded by circulating stories of to bring forward the wedding of his daughter Although still only fourteen, by Roman standards by Marcus to Brundisium, she boarded a ship, Lucius' paternal uncle and set out for Ephesus. Libo had died in the intervening months and have been intended to keep Lucius' behaviour Lucius would meet with Lucilla in Ephesus, empress, Lucilla took the title of Augusta. It was during this time that the capital of control, was re-sited and built closer to Sohaemus, a member of the senate and Arsacid thus cementing a pro-Roman ruler in place, Despite reluctance on his part, Marcus was the title of victory Armeniacus. Given his philosophical nature, having taken presumably Marcus felt that the title wasn't had played their part in the victory. But Marcus did not sit idle in Rome while education in Law would stand him in good stead. Evidence remains of his introduction of reforms of manumission of slaves, appointment of guardians for the provinces. He was instrumental in setting up the use of the treasury of Saturn, which would record the provinces. These registries would act as proof of a person's into question. He brought the total number of court days 230 and showed great respect to the senate even when he himself had jurisdiction, and He granted further honours and privileges of his predecessors had ignored them relying rule. The war with the Parthians continued and in having made some gains in the area during Edessa and restoring the pro-Roman ruler Mannus Martius Verus likely pursued the retreating lead the advance south. Reaching the twin cities of Seleucia and Ctesiphon the approaching army. Following this, Ctesiphon, the Parthian capital, although Vologases himself was not captured However, despite their welcoming of the army, almost five centuries before, was destroyed And so, with the war virtually at an end Lucius by Fronto, asking for memoranda from both his own account. His vanity coming to the fore when he suggested Attention would now turn to preparations for along the frontier, two new legions were raised of the northern provinces. It was during this time in 165 AD that Marcus twin Antoninus. Perhaps because of her grief over the loss, the east to be with Lucilla who was pregnant At the same time Fronto lost first his wife whom he had not had the chance to meet. Marcus expressed his condolences in a letter child but said he was deeply upset that his Cassius would return to the east in 166 AD advancing through Media and securing more Following the conclusion of the Median campaign legions returned to their places along the as the governor of Syria. Fronto would die soon after Lucius' return history. Given the peace of Antoninus' reign, the the first held in Rome for almost fifty years Lucius requested that Marcus' sons Commodus which was granted and they would ride along Both Marcus and Lucius were given the title Marcus having already been offered the title had returned to Rome. But the time taken to secure victory in the on the northern frontier. The tribes on the northern fringes of the Romans but increasing pressure from population them from their land and now they looked to Initially the invasion, either in late 166 were quelled and envoys were sent, represented to Iallius Bassus, the governor of Upper Pannonia. Peace was made, oaths sworn and the envoys Despite his intentions, Marcus was unable took hold throughout the empire during 167 following the Parthian campaign. Trying to make sense of the plague, theories had been released from the temple of Apollo be punishment for the sacking of the city to be friends of Rome. The disease itself has not been conclusively especially within the densely populated city was high. Marcus enacted laws concerning the movement of graves for appropriation by another. The building of tombs at villas was also prohibited. Many and varying priests were summoned to and purify the city to quell public anxiety certain religious ceremonies only delayed were once again developing that required attention. Lucius on the other hand, although consul his time in pleasurable pursuits. He held many banquets at his villa on the from Syria and he invited Marcus to attend. Marcus, ever the good brother, accepted, and for Lucius spent his time there engaged in However, the plague caused bad feeling towards a punishment from the gods and those accused tried, and executed. Marcus wrote little on the Christians but that they accept their deaths not as an individual die," a sentiment instilled through their and Roman beliefs surrounding death. This was not the first instance of apparent reign. His friend Rusticus as prefect, in 165 AD, after accusation by the Cynic Crescens. Justin and five others willingly admitted and beheaded; and so it was that Justin became Peace with the tribes on the northern frontier The Victuali and Marcomanni, whose king had peace talks were still causing trouble amongst in Dacia not long after the earlier peace Knowing the situation required attention, off for the north in the spring of 168 AD, stay for a time. Marcus issued orders for more forts to be preoccupied with the good hunting in the area. So, when the news came of a tentative truce with continuing to the Danube, pressed his Marcus refused and they crossed the alps for returning to Aquileia. Marcus intended to winter at Aquileia and but with plague still present Galen, the eminent Lucius continuing to press him for the same, to accompany Lucius back to Rome. But Lucius would not see Rome again, he was and lingered for three days before dying in Rumours surrounding the co-emperor's death Faustina, and Lucilla of individual plots Marcus oversaw the funeral and deification By now, because of the war in the east, plague was facing a financial crisis, and still more succumbed to the plague and to fill out the But this would still require money and so of palace property in which much was sold To further bolster numbers, former gladiators, and even conscripted bandits were formed into from within the Germanic tribes, which went of recruiting and fitting out new troops. But all this was still not enough and so the common practice when in financial difficulty. Marcus' departure to the Danube was delayed to deal with his daughter, Lucius' widow, for her and then he would deal with the death treat a tumour, and so he would leave later Much of the detail of the Danube campaign but the initial assault does not appear to After the assault failed, the exact date of in pushing into Italy making it as far as with further invasions by other tribes into Lucilla's new husband, Claudius Pompeianus and took the future short-lived emperor Pertinax Piece by piece, the Germanic tribes were rooted until finally at the end of the 171 AD campaigning losses when trapped by the army at a river At the same time Baetica on the Iberian Peninsula Aufidius Victorinus to deal with this incursion, Tarraconsis simultaneously. Deprived of the senatorial state of Baetica Sardinia in its place where, after a term Severus would serve. Marcus held talks with many of the tribes, as the Marcomanni, who posed the greater threat going so far as to make some alliances. He gave leave for some to settle within the following a revolt at Ravenna. And so, in 172 AD, Marcus was finally in a the Danube marching into Marcomanni territory. There were wins and losses on both sides but Marcus' miracles are said to have taken The first held that Marcus summoned a thunderbolt The second is that of the rain miracle. Engaged with the Quadi, who had gone back they surrounded the Romans on all sides in water sources and simply waiting for them numbers. Unable to retreat, the Romans continued to Suddenly clouds rolled in and the rain poured thirst and fight on. The miracles would subsequently be depicted stands in Rome today. Although Christian writers would later claim depictions on coins and the column show that with the Roman pantheon. Marcus gained victory over the Marcomanni and severe restrictions were placed on the For the victory Marcus and his son Commodus, the title Germanicus. Despite these successes there was still trouble A rebellion had started in Egypt and Avidius with it, while in Armenia, Sohaemus had been Cappadocia was sent to reinstall him as the be the cause of the trouble in Armenia was Marcus had intended to return to Rome in 173 and other, smaller tribes, mainly in a series The previous treaty with the Quadi had been in favour of Ariogaesus, who was hostile to Marcus refused to recognise him, refusing on him, dead or alive. However, like Tiridates, following his capture, The war progressed, now against the Sarmatian in 174 AD Marcus refused, however little more Despite his presence on the front, Marcus allowed, having always taken his duties in However, it seems at this point that he may by Dio as suffering from a chest and stomach To alleviate this, he was prescribed a theriac contained opium. There is some suggestion that he may have he describes periods when Marcus would stop but would then be unable to sleep and would However, it is not suggested that he became history. Throughout this time, Marcus would appoint and experience, to roles within the senate of such prominent men from death during the He is also said to have made several pronouncements public games in his absence and the abolition It was in the final ten years of his life is perhaps his most famous and lasting legacy, A series of 12 books of his own writings on of philosophy that emphasises positive emotion developing character in the process. The Meditations are a collection of musings and administering his posts, they were written and for his own self-development. Throughout his writings, Marcus would set standards and would analyse the triviality, and of other people, yet remaining dedicated Some have suggested that the imagery and themes medication he took for the treatment of an Indeed, his Meditations have been considered written although they were not original philosophical tenets of stoicism. One theme that emerges in the meditations as well as the adherence to ethics and the Another theme is the promotion of rationality logos or order in the world and to treat both in themselves. In 175 AD the Sarmatian campaign continued, of the Marcomanni, Quadi, and Sarmatians as However, it was now that Marcus would face he had previously trusted to take care of Having suppressed the "Herdsmen" or the the Romans, Avidius Cassius declared himself There is some speculation that he believed been conclusively proven and may well have Rumours would also abound of Marcus' wife's Cassius was recognised as emperor at the city Known as the breadbasket of the Empire, Egypt Augustus had previously decreed that those to even enter the country, and as such, support Marcus' rule. He was declared a public enemy of the senate, taking his revenge for their declaration. Marcus took steps to avoid this by sending who had returned to Rome part way through Marcus kept his hold over the army, praising He also took the opportunity to have Commodus him as heir. Marcus prepared to make the journey east, only three months as he was killed by one Still feeling that his presence in the east with the Jazyges, without consulting the senate cavalry to Britain. They set off for the east, and it was during died. Despite his writings on grief, he was greatly where she died as Faustinopolis, she was deified her reputation against the various stories, had circulated about her life. Marcus eventually arrived in Egypt although Having allowed the surviving son of Cassius on the prefect Calvisius Statianus, who had choice and he dealt moderately with Alexandria, After dealing with Egypt, Marcus continued both he and Commodus were initiated into the They would return to Rome late in 176 AD. Marcus would now grant his son imperium, allowing have him excused from the lex annalis so that in 177 AD making him the youngest consul up Perhaps seeing an opportunity Ceionia Fabia, in marriage to him. Marcus refused but took a mistress, despite mistress from his childhood in the meditations. Soon after his return he fell ill, once again this time not to be a serious malady, as Galen upset and Marcus was well enough to take part His triumphal arch granted by the senate does After taking his consulship, later in 177 and become co-ruler with his father. Although there was still fighting going on to his judicial and administrative responsibilities. As well as dealing with trials, Marcus spent on slavery, and the provision of gladiatorial classes who were required to fund them. Trained gladiators now commanded a high price many being co-opted into the army. To remedy the high price of putting on these criminals as gladiators in the provinces. It was also during 177 AD that the persecutions of Lyon, took place. Accused Christians were sent to the arena One of the accused was a Roman citizen and decided on the fate of citizens found to be It appears that Marcus kept to the rule that be released, otherwise, as being a Christian refused were to be beheaded. The dead Christians would be denied burial and were later burned. There has been some suggestion that this persecution Marcus' gladiatorial reform however, this There were other troubles that Marcus had The Moors, although earlier beaten back had in his reign, another natural disaster occurred, the city. With the finances of the empire recovering, with rebuilding. But again, the situation on the northern frontiers decided to go north once again, taking Commodus After bringing forward the wedding of Commodus 178 AD. Gains were made against the Quadi and Marcomanni Roman soldiers garrisoned parts of their territory to break and retreat north but they were prevented They would winter on the frontier but as the Marcus fell ill and died seven days later AD, likely near Sirmium. There is some speculation that he may have is unknown. Credited as the last of the five good emperors, trials during his reign. But despite his initial reluctance to assume for the role, his sense of duty prevailed He would do much for the reforming of Rome's legislation that benefited much of the populace, those that were the victims of the numerous reign. He was humble in his dealings with the senate, his lack of practical military knowledge, of war by those with experience. Despite expansionist ideals towards the end active military service was first and foremost to cost to himself. Merciful to his enemies, where others would not afraid to take to the field when required, But he was just as willing to wield diplomacy Although he wouldn't begin writing his meditations not intended on publishing them, they allow although he did not openly declare himself his everyday actions and exemplary morals. Regarded as one of the most famous and important of Marcus Aurelius are not only valuable and with a rare glimpse into the mind of one of indeed it is evident from the complexity of a man of immense intellect and wisdom, which as an Emperor and reputation amongst his peers. An example of a quote from the Meditations thing, it is not this that disturbs thee, And it is in thy power to wipe out this judgment In no way can he be viewed as cruel or tyrannical his rule the persecution of Christians continued. Although not directly sanctioned by Marcus, upholding the law of Christianity as a capital it in his reforms. His death would ultimately signal the end Successive emperors, although some would try, his own son and successor, Commodus. What do you think of Marcus Aurelius? Was he a just and fair ruler whose actions or can he be criticised for his continued mercy to enemies. Please let us know in the comment section watching.