I knew she was the one Colby Out of all the shitty dating shows in the last few years, Which also makes it the best. Netflix has just been spitting out They know what they're doing, and it's Once again, I was told by my friend after he watched the show And after he told me, I just I started seeing red because he was telling me But then I remembered that he told me I should do the Criss Angel video Now, the premise of the show is simple. It's not it's it's not simple. Whenever I do these videos, that I don't want to forget. But for this video, ages, relationship statuses because I could not follow Anyways, I'm getting off topic. The premise of the show, and one person from each couple or move on which on its own is already But after the first day, Meet someone else from the group, spend Jesus Christ, this is so much. And then after that with their original partner By now, you guys are probably seeing fucking idea. It's perfect reality TV. Everyone will come out of this Probably. Now, like I mentioned before, the concept And usually when this happens because someone in a relationship they've been dragged along forever Well, don't worry. That is not the case because not one couple on this show has Nor is anyone over the age of 30 So you can probably imagine me about marriage and kids kind of, Now, while there is no shortage The people who issued Now, while them issuing ultimatums and their relationships is already silly, you got to be a certain type of person. But at this point, that the main reason people do these shows in the first place will just blow up afterwards Now, aside from the couples, are the hosts I'm Nick Lachey. Obviously. Obviously. I don't know what they did to Netflix in the past, They have hosted every dating show years unless they break Some of my favorite quotes from the show If the person that you were with and they come out of that, Thank God you did that now and not after As if the show isn't creating problems Honey, have a wonderful home I can't go on like this anymore. It's over. My God. Why? What happened? Well, on my way home from work today, I had to pick one of them. Spend three weeks in the trial marriage I learned that I was much more compatible So I've decided that everything we built in the last ten years Aside from you spending three weeks with I just wish we would have done this in front of millions of people. I knew she was the one Colby I always have reasons on shows like this, But in this show specifically, I so obviously have a good side. It's the side of my face that I have not been spending So to imagine a room that shows Psychologists agree an ultimatum is not a good way You don't say. But it is the best way to get you you can live with. And it's very entertaining for everyone Is that how. It worked for you? Teach me this hand in saying yes so since you won't do it, April, you wanna rapid fire off Let's real quick take a look at all brought to you by my study guide. First, April is the one that issued She's 23 like this isn't post-World You can give it a few years. The chances of Jake finding someone Good luck. I mean, that is what people with the most A lot of the guys on the show and in real life often cite financial reasons to get married just yet. But we find out that with Jake and April, I don't want you to keep anything I can't talk to you about it And then it starts another argument Just a little more. Give me a kiss. Babe I'm bout to.. Fuck. I'm hoping with this experience on what you want from another perspective I just think, like, the only way for me to be the best partner Does that make sense? Do I want to lose you? No. Do I love you? Yes. Do I love you? Yes. Do I want to lose you? Of course not. Do I also want to fuck like three people? Yeah, that sounds pretty fucking sick. Look, the point is, we They don't really have a problem It's more so what comes after that? Lauren doesn't want kids, for most people. But I hope that by the end of this, issue and come to a solution Who knows? Next is Ray and Zae, age 24 and 25. I have graduated and I have everything Isn't that kind of how it goes college Then babies. I think you Forgot to squeeze on a Netflix dating show. And then proposal, aside from Zae just not It also seems like Like she doesn't seem to open up Maybe seems like an important thing Sue me. I'm stressed out that you're going to end And I'm asking you to talk to me about how you feel but you're stressed out about me Now, Alexis and Hunter are the most Alexis, my thought is if you're serious about a relationship, She is the token annoying blond that Like she was designed in a lab for this. There's a part of me that really struggles and so to take such a hard stance of any opportunity for discussion is No, Hunter, you stupid fuck. This is the only way. This is best now with Madalyn and Colby. Madalyn She is just here for a good time. I don't really believe in there. Only being one person for everybody. I don't even think she wants to be She just wants to hang out and explore. Randall, I'm willing to explore Randall character on the show and I say character I thought he was just going to be shy he learns But I'm looking for the characteristics I need a manly man That's my requirement. Nobody, nobody wants a fucking giant Do you have a wild side. Of course I have a wild side. I like sci fi books. Yeah, of course I have a wild side. Have you read The Expanse now, Madeline. Waste no time. She goes right for the guy Randall which. Oh, yeah, Randall and Shanique, One of them wants to get married, They're kind of boring compared I think Colby is definitely scared Yeah, we can tell. I get annoyed. You don't have to say something And let me think. Yeah, for a moment. He's always putting on a show. While Alexis and Colby are getting to know into what Alexis wants out of marriage I have a certain lifestyle Marriage for me is a financial decision cool. If Hunter wasn't making enough money that was reasonable, I think it's first time Well, what a great place to do. So I don't think I'm all of her needs she's looking for. I know I told her I work in sales, So you're the one that has issued I am the one that issued the Ultimatum Maybe too. Well, I feel the same way. I'm kind of a minimalist, so. Yeah, You're the first one that said Like I grew up as an only child, so did I she had someone else. So I could have- same She was like, I wish I gave you a sibling. I am 25% African, West African. OK, and my mom's Italian. I'm My dad is black They're giving siblings Now, something they got me. They fucking got me invested. Colby ends up telling Alexis he sees a future with them I don't think I would. See a future with you in marriage, He doesn't owe her a reason, What took you to that place? Now maybe you're like me and assumed it was because of her being, Because that's what he said. I don't think I'm She was looking for. But now when she presses in the next day, Not attracted to you. His ex and me. Look, the most similar of anyone here. How can he not be attracted to me? His ex and I are both blond and white. That's your reasoning? This reminds me of that community meme. I can excuse greed, So was that the real reason money? I don't know. Did the editors forget to leave I don't know. Maybe he's just an asshole. Whatever it is, this is the beginning I mean, just look at the guy he found out half the girls want him, I really have nothing Yeah, me either. But I'm going to grab a drink. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. I don't know I guess I just I mean, money isn't everything. You're fucking ugly. I feel so bad leaving that way. Maybe the producers just sat him down, like, look, and clear the air But we are losing a lot of money So if you could just tell her her face Ray. She's someone that checks off We connect on every single level. I'm myself. Am not ready to marry April right now, but maybe I can change for the right person. Damn. Imagine April watching this show back and just seeing him say that now off, brother and sister style April and Guy, who I'm pretty sure in this entire show, How is Everybody? Can we squeeze in with y'all? Or at least it's edited to look that way The episode ends and the next one begins So most likely I don't want it to be a situation this is the type of person who I think for the next three weeks and maybe be like I mean, isn't that the point of the show? Now later on, they're all hanging out, they have to make their final decision. And my main takeaway from this was that these are the least interesting people and Colby thought the dress code Also, Colby cannot hear a single thing This entire interaction never have. I ever wore a hat during sex. what? finger down. You look like You have I'm sorry to say. I will not accept anything other than him And what happens next is that argument of when I was talking about how there's more issues with April So it's like, fuck me, what do I do? Now, after that conversation, So naturally Hunter comes over to comfort to make sure that was his name because him You are strong, you are strong, you're a strong person, You're going to be better for it. I'm sorry. Up until 10 seconds ago, I legitimately It's so obvious that Hunter is just bullshitting his way into some pussy, between Jake and April, thinking that April is That's very clear to me The amount of love that you give You've made me feel better than anybody else I've talked to after, Listen, baby, it's no problem. I'm a sociopath. So now it's time for everybody That makes me nervous. Like, is our relationship 100% certain? Will he walk away with me? Alexis, I don't even remember who If you guys weren't feeling things right and check for a pulse. You're supposed to be feeling Look, if you guys weren't feeling emotional distress right because Netflix needs a certain amount of Madalyn . Hi. Hey. Did they just wake her up? Vanessa is giving a teacher that just woke Energy. Hi. Now, after everyone gives their own this is hard, a few notable things happen. Nate chooses April for his trial marriage, She chooses Hunter. I choose Hunter. I don't know. I don't I. I don't. Know. After Alexis sees this, she goes on some For her to sit here that you had a good experience. And wouldn't you know it? Hunter just fucking proposes to her. Guys, I want to marry Alexis. April's gotta to be like, And I know Mr. and Mrs. Lachey are just fuming at the end of the table but that's not the end of Nate's To him, the thought of losing Lauren Colby Fucking big cheese. Colby is too much to bear for him, If Lauren chooses Colby and they end up I'm shitting my pants now. Nope, nope. Absolutely not. Back in your seat. So, Lauren, will you marry me Abso fucking lutely. Yes, please. Yes. But I hope that by the end of this, very serious issue and come to a solution silly. I know the Lachey's are scrambling everybody doesn't come to their senses Even though now that I say that out loud, Nobody at all. So, yeah, or why they didn't want to get married They all get into a heated discussion especially because Nate proposing Like you were given the ultimatum. And we've gone. Four or five days and now all of a sudden, yes to me, proposing to the love of Is that what you're saying? Right now? It's obvious that Nate just didn't want to maybe, maybe if maybe if I asked her one more time guy tells me, these two are still engaged So who knows if anything has happened after they all pick their trial marriages? Them living together is quite boring. I struggled Most of the time, they're just awkwardly hanging out Good night. Good night. And most of the couples sleep in the same Except, Zae, poor Zae. He has to be And he has to sleep in a love seat And in the end, only two of the couples April and Jake. Thank fucking God. And Randall The rest are either still dating, engaged, like Colby and Madeline, walks out with pregnant Madalyn with that Colby has entered his final form. I mean, look at his fucking hair. Unfortunately, the baby is now property and Netflix, Inc. Can I say, But guys, old girlfriend gives you a marriage and wants to do it all on Netflix, for your Instagram following. Anyways, guys, if you did like the video, Any thoughts, ideas, opinions or if you've seen it, what did you think. Subscribe And with that being said, and I will see you next time. Goodbye.