Some of the most glorious empires in the history and many of these are all the more well known The Mongols of Genghis Khan began as a small, as the most massive land empire in all of Unknown to most, the powerful nomads of Central known to us as the Kushan Empire. How this realm was created and its importance tales yet to be told, and we will do so in Welcome to our video on the Great Yuezhi migrations We are celebrating the 2nd birthday of this it is getting bigger and better than ever! In just 2 years Raid became the #1 RPG in it daily. Most importantly, Raid has a great community, wishes. There's never been a better time to start of battles, mayhem, and fun. What we like about the game are the awesome excellent epic music! For Raid's 2 year birthday they've got from March to mid-April, with insane prizes Raid is launching the first Clan vs Clan Tournament Shadowkin Faction, which we can't wait to If you wanna get a huge headstart press the and you'll get your free Epic Champion - Jotun, so you can summon awesome Champions as soon All this treasure will be waiting for you Only for the next 30 days and only for new It is easy - just click the link in the description, Antiquity's great Kushan Empire began with Yuezhi. They had led a semi-nomadic lifestyle on the had grown wealthy facilitating the trade of Inhabiting territories in and around what Corridor, the Yuezhi were not alone on the Many other 'barbarian' groups surrounded and the Xiongnu. It is thought that the Yuezhi became so strong to scorn and attack their neighbors, forming In 220BC, combined pressure from the Yuezhi to the north. As this nomadic group was supposedly able it seems that they were the most powerful northwestern frontier, but this was about The Xiongnu flight north prompted their chief, as a hostage to his conquerors. It seemed Modu was disliked by his father, concubine as his heir instead. To this end, the cunning Touman raided Yuezhi that they would execute the royal hostage However, Modu was even more cunning than his The Xiongnu prince stole one of the swiftest captors came to execute him. After his escape Modu triumphantly made his hero. Modu's father, now either impressed by his put him in command of 10,000 cavalry. By all accounts Modu proved himself to be a double-edged sword for his father. By 209BC, Modu had gained enough influence himself as the Xiongnu ruler. He was Modu Chanyu, the Genghis Khan of the Under his rule, the nomadic Xiongnu were reorganised, dominance over the steppe, crushing and subjugating Among these unfortunate victims were the formidable The Chanyu sent his 'Wise King of the Right' While the Xiongnu forces gained victory, it of by Modu in his subsequent communication to occupy lands in the Gansu Corridor. Other matters would take up Modu's attention by his own eldest son Jizhu. Eight years later, the Xiongnu instigated They first invaded the Beidi regions of China again. This was the final straw. A crushing defeat was inflicted by the Xiongnu, turned into a drinking cup. The defeated confederacy, now under the slain away from the Gansu region with military forces great threat to any in their path. This expulsion created a domino effect similar Empire centuries later. From their Gansu homeland, the Yuezhi migrated several decades. On their way, the tribes attacked another fled south into Bactria from the Ili River. The Yuezhi eventually arrived on steppe territories otherwise known as the Amu Darya. In around the year 145, the Sakas crossed Yuezhi, resulting in a disaster for the Greco-Bactrian The easternmost extent of Alexander the Great's Saka allies due to many conflicts against them. Around this time, the city of Alexandria on Storerooms were looted and many primary Greek in an assault which ended permanent occupation These raids ended the Greco-Bactrian kingdom, posed when, soon after, the Xiongnu and their Realising they were still not secure in their themselves and drove out the Saka, occupying Completely overwhelmed by their nomadic kin, others traversed the Hindu Kush and conquered These soon-to-be Hellenised conquerors would We know that in this period, a Chinese envoy to embark on a common alliance against the Governance of the Bactrian Yuezhi lands during the territory being split into five 'provinces'. These regions represented five separate tribes by its own xihou, or 'allied prince', within one of the subject walled cities in Professor Kenneth W. Harl suggests that this chain of authority, where each of the five period, and would then be replaced by another After a relatively hazy period which is shrouded Chinese sources state that in around 30AD, the other four, becoming king of the entire This was Kujula Kadphises of the Kushan tribe, the Kingdom of Guishang - Kingdom of the Kushans. Not content with ruling just Bactria, the Parthian neighbor, seizing the strategic Kabul This was a plum conquest. Kabul was reasonably easy to conquer as it also extremely wealthy. Moreover, its capture gave the Kushans a route In what was perhaps an unintentional consequence, also cut the Indo-Parthians, who had invaded Iran. The Chinese estimated that the Kushan state were capable of fighting. This significant occupying force was in addition of Iranians and Asiatic Greeks. Most of the Kushan armies fought in the traditional had fought against the Xiongnu a century and However, frescoes in Kushan royal palaces cataphract heavy cavalry. It was clear that the mounted nature of their the Parthian Empire, and Josephus records In 55AD, Parthian king Vologases I marched of Adiabene. However, just before reaching the epicentre eastern territories were being attacked by allies. While the king was able to repel this Kushan and indicated how much of a threat their new According to Chinese accounts, the great unifier 80 years old, and died in roughly 80AD. Despite us not knowing many concrete details sources, he was clearly a key figure in Yuezhi His son and successor was Vima Takto, who Protector General Ban Chao. This was the period in which the Han dynasty and Kangju forces were assisting rebels in When these troublesome interlopers learned entered an alliance against them, they quickly from behind. It seems that despite helping the Chinese receive what they had been promised, and they A request was made for a Kushan, perhaps the with a Han princess, which was unceremoniously Perhaps irritated by Han ingratitude, Emperor placed it under a senior general and had it From here, it attacked the city of Kashgar protection. Before the enemy arrived, Ban Chao hoarded all these provisions which could not be brought As the Kushans put Kashgar under siege, this consequences for the nomads. Several attempts to break the city by assault dry. When this happened, the army's general sent to forage, a move Ban Chao had anticipated. The wily Protector General had placed contingents to destroy almost all of this scattered foraging Now clearly without any hope at gaining supplies, of Kashgar and return over the Pamirs with Though the armies of Vima Takto had failed could go toe to toe with the Han Chinese indicates Nevertheless, the expansionist Yuezhi ruling into India. Mounted armies were sent through the Hindu the Indo-Parthian princes in the region. Han accounts describe how the Indians possessed that they were no match for the army of mounted This victorious army of conquest also took which were a primary destination for merchants the Roman Empire. Therefore, the Kushan Empire seized Indian of Asia Minor, and by doing so essentially Emperor as a major political force. The Book of Later Han describes how Emperor and lead' the Indus realms and how, after rich. Still, their origins were not forgotten by the Great Yuezhi. Having enriched themselves by conquering the who ascended to the Kushan throne in 100AD, He conquered further into north Indian lands Indus and Ganges rivers. Showing us that the Kushans were beginning the native kings were killed and were replaced These new Yuezhi tribal lords were required to the central Kushan court as taxes, and the famous Indian war elephants, for defence empire. These Indian acquisitions made a range of to the Kushan Emperors, including turtle shell, wool carpets, spices and perfumes. Control over the Indus ports also allowed of Roman goods transported through the Indian In addition to acting as intermediaries for maintained their own commercial dealings. Merchants from the Kushan Empire maintained which required cavalry. A third century Chinese envoy named Kang Tai sending horses by sea to places as far flung With these rich new imperial lands sending its power, Emperor Vima Kadphises decided the strategically placed city of Kashgar, silk routes. A direct assault had failed, so the Kushans When the king of Kashgar passed away in around the Kushans offered to support his brother under the condition that he would serve as With a retinue of elite Kushan troops at his into the court, demanding that the king's The force of Kushan assistance and Chen Pan's meant that there was no conflict in this succession. However, the Chinese determined that the people these events. Emperor Kanishka the Great came to the throne actions of his predecessors, by expanding the Upper Ganges region. His coins and inscriptions have been found and Gaya. It seems that Kanishka was also the first shown in two ancient Buddhist traditions. At an unknown point, it is reported that the Vologases III attacked Kanishka's realm bowmen and spearmen. Kushan forces managed to defeat the Parthians, this invasion. Despite the victory in battle, Kanishka was that warfare had brought and repented, seeking If this story sounds familiar, it is probably of Ashoka the Great. Whatever the case, it does seem that Kanishka promote and patronise teachings of the faith An important Buddhist council was convened was agreed that leading religious texts, known and more common forms of sanskrit. Royal coffers also funded the construction was one of the greatest in all of India, and artisans. Only the foundations of this 'Kanishka stupa' that its dome had a diameter of around 286 concrete roof on top of Hadrian's pantheon While Ashoka of the Mauryan Empire had pioneered popularised it for a brief time in India, to China and beyond, where it had a decisive During the second century AD, Buddhist merchants across the Silk road to the wealthy lands However, they also brought many teachings helped to promote them in major Chinese cities. In effect, Kushan merchants used the prospering to the far east. One of the early Chinese converts to Buddhism half-brother to the Han Emperor Ming, who Suspicious of this invasive new faith at first, of Liu Ying in 65AD, but could not find any against the Empire. Seemingly curious of this faith which had an envoy overland to discover more about this This representative returned in 67AD with who entered Luoyang with religious texts and Consequently, the impressed Emperor Ming gave its symbols and statues began appearing in Further showing us how crucial the Indian one of the leading monks in the transfer of This man was from the wealthy Kushan province taught in the Chinese capital and later translated as an official member of the Han court from We always have more stories to tell, so make have pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and