ASML has a monopoly on the lithography machines, the lithography equipment single advanced processor And this company is one of organizations in the world. We are the only provider on technology. The most advanced technology States. This vision that started 50 digital world onto a chip. And that pace of technology At the center of this big in the midst of a months there's a revolutionary has come to rely on. You could see an EUV machine The size of a city bus but precision, these EUV most expensive step in microchip that powers the Data centers, cars, and We are the only provider on technology. These machines are the only designs on these chips. They cost up to $200 made by a single company, Materials Lithography, or Today, ASML has a monopoly lithography machines, the lithography equipment single advanced processor And this company is one of organizations in the world. The machines that they among the most complicated In the midst of a chip orders of everything from a ASML has never been Its stock has skyrocketed main customers, chipmakers to be front of line for technology. The price tag promises to push the is more than $300 million. It's so expensive that most While the chip wars rage on, really going on inside the machines that print them This is the optical part of possible. We got a rare tour inside California and the machines use precision and the smoothest surface digital age to life. ASML's crucial role on the it wild success over the even more valuable today biggest chip makers it It's double digit growth And we're not a startup. You know, we have now Peter Wennink has been CEO ASML back in 1999, just 15 beginnings. It started as a electronics giant Philips out of a leaky shed next to Eindhoven in the They were in financial dire We were poor. And because were so big, nobody looked there that was trying to do neglected us. Still, in its first year, launched a that used precise rays of on silicon to make known as lithography. The first lithography tool projector. There is all the image that you want Then there is an optical take this image and project Semiconductor lithography military lab and for a long the key lithography firms England. Chris Miller of Tufts called The Chip War: The Critical Technology. When the industry was the early stages of EUV firms were ready to take the expensive and risky was. By 1988, ASML had five U.S. offices with 84 employees eventually became its where CNBC took a tour We're walking through the 50,000 square meters of who are working in shifts of the EUV machines shipped facility. With a breakthrough machine, profit and went public on Stock Exchange in 1995. By the 2000s, ASML was companies like Silicon suppliers like Cymer in San inside look at the source is produced. So this is actually a nozzle actually build the nozzles. This is actually the piece that's what's going to EUV refers to extreme short wavelength of light smaller, more complex But developing this incredibly expensive. We didn't have the money, so partners, which actually built the company. So we architect and a system In 2012, ASML offered about its biggest three and Taiwan Semiconductor They had to accelerate the way they could do this is customers involved. And one way you can make make them a shareholder. ASML is a Dutch company, but that relies very heavily on components, in particular this point relies also very customer for its sales. TSMC made up nearly 40% of In 2019, the Taiwanese deliver high volume chips that's kept it at the head chip technology at least and Intel. And it has been TSMC's lot of benefit like AMD, And yeah, you can argue expense of Intel not Intel is just now producing this year, three years bold move in hopes of investment to secure the next machine: High To understand why the Intel hinges on ASML, let's lithography revolutionized When you start breaking make an EUV lithography It's sort of Nobel Prize engineering involved. Chips are made from found in rocks and sand down, then sliced into on which chips are built in Each wafer can have dozens billions of transistors chips can do. These layers lithography. Extremely projected through a mask of When the light hits the have been coated with prints the minuscule extremely high volumes. If you think of a typical iPhone, for example, will transistors on a chip, and or more iPhones for each So you're already talking bigger than you or I As the wavelength of the gets narrower and narrower, make chips with smaller chip is faster, the chip consumption of the chip can The smallest transistors are thinner than a human hair. The designs have gotten so new methods of printing at physics. With the help of consortium of scientists, create large amounts of with a wavelength so short the human eye, it's substances, even air. So the entire process has first for lithography. At 13.5 nanometers, ASML's of just five DNA strands The previous generation ultraviolet light or DUV, nanometers. The vast 268 of the 309 machines technology, which is used chips which are in shortest DUV is for anything that is toaster or refrigerator or in your car. Today's iPhone Both DUV and EUV lithography precision down to the atom. This is an EUV cabin of our times cleaner than the We're wearing these ourselves from the protecting the machine from created by us. This tiny thread may look spiderweb, but it's shot out at a pressure of And it's how the EUV light This is continuous tin. It never, ever, ever stops. The tin is streaming through nozzle which we saw being of 50,000 droplets per A 30 kilowatt carbon droplet twice per second, These tiny explosions are light. A huge number of because only about 5% of wafer. The light particles absorbed by mirrors, the precisely aim light through So ASML partnered with which makes the flattest The flatness is really just If you took a mirror big and you blew it up to we're in. The biggest bump millimeter across the the size of this country. EUV light bounces off these until it hits photoresist the silicon wafer to print up the chips. The aim needs it's equivalent to shining a coin on the earth. So your tin is inside of you're firing out this way. Pete Mayol has been running years. If any kind of defect on the tip of that We'll move and start all And the speed and scale at staggering. ASML says an 3000 wafers a day. There can be hundreds of wafer and up to 10 billion They take extraordinary and physics, and they're mass production scale and these machines can be used thousands and millions of buy them. A completed EUV machine is different modules, each manufacturing sites among around the world, then in Veldhoven for testing. Then it's disassembled takes 20 trucks and three In 2021, ASML sold 42 EUV total it's ever shipped to With each machine costing five customers can afford SK Hynix, Samsung, Intel making up nearly 84% of It certainly has eliminated market. So we saw years ago or more say that a seven nanometer chip. The handful of huge furiously adding capacity chip shortage, which is We got a lot of messages said, Hey, we might be late you guys because we cannot And we said, if we cannot make the machines to make So there's a catch-22. We're still managing, keep it's a daily struggle. The question is, can ASML I think the answer is Maybe the growth will that's possible, but to ramp up their think, good news if you're shortage. The world needs more chips, machines, which, by the average selling price as cost per transistor down, been doing for the last 38 doing for the next couple Before, EUV chip makers had choose from for their ASML, Nikon and Canon. Nikon in Japan is still a is the only option for EUV. Experts say it could take company to catch up, not proprietary tech, but often exclusive deals with And we're unique to our suppliers are unique to us, relationships some people married because you cannot It takes ten years to not then be accepted. So the buyers for fabs are very risk averse. One of the ways ASML has supply chain risks is by suppliers, like Berliner A fire broke out there in won't significantly impact Instead, ASML projects a and an annual revenue end of the decade. It's actually driven by you. You're asking for more to have a better life, to your life more productive. We're changing into a There are sensors car, they're in your they're everywhere. semiconductors. All of the world's most made in Asia by two of TSMC and Samsung. But the chip shortage has overseas dependency. This is why you see all globe: the U.S. Chips Act, Chips Act, the Japanese Act. It's now a very Intel just announced a $20 and it's also building one road from a massive new fab advanced chips in the U.S. for the first time. And billion fab in Texas. All this came after the Chips Act with $52 chip companies to soil. It means that we need to earlier and at higher So it means we need to hire It's talent. It's people. I think that's where the But this movement toward another side that poses a A desire to stop sharing China. China has wanted to get into politically generated had access to the same type companies. As far back as 2018, the reportedly pressed ASML not China. ASML still hasn't China. 43, 42 countries around the export control measures on So it's not our choice, governments. ASML also refurbishes older sends many of those to More recent DUV machines all systems from the nineties. 96% of all the machines we are still working. There's a lot of debate additional DUV equipment to security risk by letting to manufacture close to So I think there's some years there are new imposed on ASML's ability China as well. If export controls were machines, it could greatly This is where the biggest This is where the So trust me, we need every the planet, whether it's in keep adding capacity. Let's go look at the big And then there's the for the most advanced chips support continued generation EUV machine, This is the machine Intel by 2025 and ASML has units. This is the EXE:5000. So this is what we'll be This will be what makes our better. But even now, before the whole world's reliance on a matter what gets in the What can really get in the the Russia and the Ukraine geopolitical friction not only hurt us but hurt But apart from that, let's be controlled, then it's And we will keep shrinking we will provide the world semiconductors. That's not Chips are in everything and since just a few months That's why it's been hard to PS5s. Turns out one world's chips and more than ones. The smallest, fastest iPhones, supercomputers and We even have product that's launch that are taking Taiwan Semiconductor TSMC, is not a household making chips for every new fighter jets, the highest And now it's investing $100 ramp up production amid the The combined output of what 12 million wafers a year. But the world's massive leave the global chip earthquakes, drought and China. It's become almost a edge, and all of those for the most part, are out That becomes a matter of United States, but not only Western world. TSMC almost always keeps its U.S. video crews. Until now. The total for space for this square foot. The U.S. was the birthplace decades now it's been where 75% of chip TSMC is now bringing the making back to the U.S. with a $12 billion in the middle of the It's going to be, when it production in 2024, the manufactured in the United We got an exclusive tour of Phoenix to get the truth Taiwanese company and why chip maker is bringing manufacturing back to U.S. soil. When Morris Chang first in the mid eighties, Born in China and educated Stanford, Chang moved to Texas Instruments. There, the government asked semiconductor company that His idea focus only on now as a pure play foundry. When you're just focused on really well. Rick Cassidy is TSMC's top He's been with the company The slice we spun out was do. And we put all of our one thing. Chang bet big on a need that . When he founded TSMC in Texas Instruments took making their own chips. A legendary saying in the men have fabs. When Morris went out to get named companies and they won't get off the ground. If you get it off the But as chips got more an enormous undertaking. Building a fab today takes billion. It's become nearly biggest chip companies, Qualcomm, AMD, to do it all advanced tech. Intel, for makes its own chips, but and TSMC in recent years, some of its chips. So if you were a smart have billions of dollars in first time, with the Now, each major step of chip separate company. Some, like Arm and MIPS, architecture, providing the design chips. Then there's automation, EDA companies, that write the software Only one company, ASML, extreme ultraviolet light designs into the most And then, of course, there fab-less companies Think Apple, Qualcomm, As these fab-less companies on a flywheel, making more chips. And this has allowed TSMC opinion, surpass Intel to manufacturing technology on for becoming one of the top in terms of market cap in TSMC was first listed on the 1994. In 1997, it became listed on the New York By the 2000's, it had other companies making the time. As the tech kept fell behind until today, remain that can make the chips: TSMC and Samsung. In 2013, Apple started A-series chips for the reliance on Samsung, a phones. Today, there's a iPhone on the market, and Intel too, now relying on inside most Macs. But they remain sort of in So Apple gets all the comes out. We let our products speak Their success brings all ever hope for. As to why TSMC hasn't media into its sites before secrecy have to do with IP? Sure, because this IP for in this industry, not the other company in the In 2018, at age 86, Chang His radical, pure play pay off. With the opening year, TSMC is in a race world's first three planning to get there by edge three and five far larger chips for coffee makers. To understand the different nanometers matter, let's Silicon, an abundant sand, is purified and into circular wafers. These wafers are the built in a grid formation. Each chip on the wafer can layers, each made up of circuits which determine The minuscule circuitry is lithography, extremely The smaller the width of nanometers, three processing power can fit in power needed. The smallest 10,000 times thinner than a Most of the chips are large one, of my thumbnail On there you might have plus transistors and they These are parts that are different places: CPUs, They'll be used in Bigger chips are used in things like a TV remote or Cars often use less chips, and all types of the shortage. Carmakers paused production at some its 2021 production targets orders for the 13 Pro Max month. Right now, no fab in can make five nanometer that. The F-35 Strike Fighter to their customer base is 500 plus companies are United States. And so as a they were going to need to some point. Chris Camacho of the Greater to visit TSMC's fabs in he was helping negotiate project to Arizona. The robotics, the mechanization occurring And so you can see how capital intensive, but also significant. TSMC is six months into nanometer fab outside 20,000 wafers per month The chips from the wafers end processors and much Arizona project leader Tony construction projects in This approach is designed That's a copy from the fab Just down the road, Intel is new fabs, spending $20 These massive buildings, chips, have brought some of equipment to Arizona. This is the biggest crane There's only two of them in ton crane. Since we've has moved over 3,731,000 We've also used over 260 Indeed, building a fab and incredible amount of water, find in the middle of the water source is at big farms are using up naturally replenished. We do need around 4.7 water to support the TSMC is no stranger to water Taiwan is facing its worst something that TSMC says . In Arizona, TSMC says an center will recycle up to fab. And then ultimately that into the aquifer in Phoenix after reverse solutions are provided. Another challenge of chips stateside? The current specialists are TSMC's best engineers right They're likely going to The most cutting edge R&amp;D Taiwan. To solve this, recruiter bringing over some of its They're seen as subject do in our fabs over there. And so it'll be a temporary Two maybe three years. TSMC has already sent some hires to Taiwan for 12 to 18 And the opportunity to train fab in Taiwan is going to how immense and how state machinery and everything is Taiwan is not very good when semiconductor design and by States, we'll be able to number of analog designers. This diversification is a advanced manufacturing to And then there's proximity customers based in the U.S like Apple, Nvidia and If you want more capacity, And that's one of the the U.S. Our customers want The U.S. government wants Over 60% of their customer companies. So some of these hinted that they want their home just in case. TSMC has 12 fabs, almost all They account for nearly 54% revenue. And this heavy leaves the world vulnerable earthquakes, the current geopolitical tensions China and Taiwan. But some refer to TSMC as The silicon shield, TSMC, is important. And I think The media paints a very situation, but I'm actually because of this idea, the China, as of right now, edge manufacturing. The U.S. also depends out of Taiwan. A key reason to convince TSMC to bring We're not going to have to conflict. We're not going another major pandemic. We will have these kind of U.S. soil. Today, only 12% of the made in the U.S. That's Back in the days of Bell Silicon Valley, we were Both state and federal entice TSMC to bring country where it first took The state of Arizona has a including the qualified the quality jobs tax incentive to help lower the In addition to that, the a $200 million helps TSMC access water and needed. The Biden administration has subsidies for chip manufacture on U.S. soil. It's been nicknamed This is infrastructure. So look, we need to build not repair the one of And things like the Chips for the success of our but to recruit these kind U.S. Otherwise we're going the rest of our lifetime. Over the last 20, 30, 40 in that manufacturing have seen the decreasing It's somewhere between 20% firms to produce their the United States. TSMC's Rick Cassidy took to the Chips Act. We don't want anything more playing field so that it chips in the U.S. than it Industry reports estimate a the U.S. government would 19 new fabs in the U.S. over the next ten years, chip manufacturing As the shortage continues, happening around the world. Industry association SEMI major expansions will come located in North and South I heard more announcements or three years than my Korea will invest $450 years. EU has announced investments, and based on end of next year, we should the chip shortage. But until then, as demand raising chip prices as much trickle down to the price TSMC has always been able to necessary, and most of that if there's a good pay for it. Meanwhile, TSMC will in ramping up production U.S., where the 1100 acre room for a second phase and So we've got a lot of land do more there. It will take time, but it's foundries. It's going to be chain. So it's packaging It's companies that produce required that go into the So I see this as an semiconductor sector for As you can see, we can get everything is in one area So I think it would be a see the United States we've had over the last few Intel was once synonymous advanced chips. It's the very building blocks of chips to microprocessors. Business models that have one of them, is all as a started 50 years ago with onto a chip and that pace unstoppable. Chip technology is indeed same relentless pace co-founder Gordon Moore, But Intel has failed to The chips being made inside plants, or fabs, are no Intel was the Moore's Law leader, and something that two years instead took them And they still struggle to today. Now, only two companies in Manufacturing Company and smallest, most advanced iPhones, supercomputers and The new Alder Lake CPUs with competitive features, behind the most advanced Samsung. They got fat, dumb and happy the ball. Once you fall off really difficult to get It's a very dynamic and But Intel's new CEO has a help the global chip I think I have more concrete than any other human on the They have construction in Ireland and Israel and we major fabs in the U.S. and Europe before the end of CNBC got an exclusive tour site outside Portland, a huge new fab set to open And so what's inside of here see? So what's inside of this been offloaded onto our generation tools. It's going to be installed And it's spending another in Arizona, where it will but those designed by And it also starts building United States so that the more self-sufficient. We asked Intel's top analysts about how Intel aggressive plans for more manufacturing could front of the pack again by The story of Intel's of how Silicon Valley got William Shockley, the the most basic building Mountain View to start in 1956. A year later, the so-called start Fairchild became the world's premiere A decade later, two of Silicon Valley, Bob Noyce start their own company. They first called it an N Electronics, then quickly for Integrated Electronics At Intel's founding in RAM didn't exist. Neither did microprocessors every computer. Those are These transistors are doing capabilities, never thought enabled the ecosystem all A short three years after round of just 2.5 million, market cap of 58 million. Making chips with memory business. So much so that electronics companies like in. A dozen years later, which had been operating 30 Intel's, were making memory affordably than Intel global market share of the 83%. But by 1984, it was So in 1985, Moore and famously fired themselves, walked back in and made a memory chips and toward This was just one year came out. They kind of made a one, to get out of that company effectively on this Remember, there was no PC personal computer industry Last year, Intel announced remains of its memory rival SK Hynix for $9 In 1971, Intel released the central processing unit, or For the first time, these building blocks to electronic devices. Intel processors were in computer in 1974, and its architecture processors personal computers by 1981. It revolutionized with the first 32 bit It took competitor AMD six similar product. Suddenly, have an intel processor to Andy Grove took over from Time magazine named him Man The market for personal through the first decade of supreme in making the chips In 2011, global shipments sneaking past PCs. And that's about the same early offer from Apple to first iPhones. And that was a massive actually missed, and that entire shift from PC to The chip world was also in Back when Intel was first revolutionary processors, pride in designing and &quot;Real men have fabs&quot; was a But as Moore's Law proved chips got so complex that enormous undertaking. Building a fab today takes billion. So huge companies Nvidia decided not to build outsource the expensive, manufacturing process to focuses only on its foundry others. And this is allowed TSMC to opinion surpass Intel to manufacturing technology on Despite the wild success of focus on designing chips, chips, like TSMC, Intel That makes it an integrated Keyvan Esfarjani joined Now he runs manufacturing Advanced equipment more expensive. You got to get it right, very costly. Since Andy Grove retired in series of chief executives about how much the company manufacturing end of the The most recent turnover Bob Swan was replaced by at Intel in the seventies 30 years at the company. I mean, I, you know, I joke started at Intel so young. At age 25, Gelsinger led the processor, then rose to 2001. He left in 2009, and for nearly nine years, year. We needed a technology the technology company, essentially put the Silicon Gelsinger's made some major helm, most notably the manufacturing. For decades, giants like Apple and But the chip shortage has more attractive business, to raise chip prices as It takes time to build this news is the world is additional capacity. Intel is adding capacity by its massive campus outside D1X-Mod3 is about 250,000 building. We got an exclusive first called D1X-Mod3. And what exactly are you We're manufacturing the microprocessors for Intel Intel's accelerated process At the company's Intel Gelsinger laid out an for how it plans to ramp big leaps in processing By 2025, Intel says it will capabilities of both TSMC We are on a march for yearly for ourselves and the back but to get ahead Why should anyone trust And so Intel will have to both verbally and at least, to get anyone to Intel has 15 fabs all over Ireland and the U.S. in Oregon, Arizona, New It has assembly and test Costa Rica and China and It says it makes 8000 billion units a year for Now it's expanding that the U.S. and Europe. It's got a major fab Ireland and is reportedly Italy and Germany. Doubling down in its support the growing needs the world is absolutely a of what Intel has got to go And in March, Intel billion to build two huge Arizona. It broke ground in plans to output chips for 2024. It's a very long time to chemical delivery, the All of this needs to be something that's creating are 10,000 times smaller When we toured the fab semi-trucks were dropping tools used to make the All of our tools tend to be tens of millions of from 10000 pounds to We also got a rare look clean rooms, donning bunny and other particles away on the chips. We're talking about clean cleaner than a heart It's about the equivalent of fields is the amount of clean room space. It's filled with yellow the chips to shorter the lithography machines chips. We have different we use to make our chips segregate those exhaust see here and are we're environmentally clean air coming out of our Making chips also takes a a plentiful resource in the We're currently out at the facility, where today we've gallons of water and reuse systems and process. We utilize approximately 9 can serve about 95% of The chips being made here PCs and data centers. Only TSMC and Samsung can nanometer chips, the most In fact, Intel relies on of its chips. We are one of their key collaboration continues. To understand why Intel has competitors it's trying to different types of chips Different sized chips are electronics. Intel makes a server chips that function CPUs and powerful chips Less advanced 28 to 40 most in the auto industry brakes and airbags. Bigger chips are also used coffee makers or electric Five nanometer chips, the currently made, are highly handling and artificial used in leading edge iPhones, NASA rovers and Making five nanometer chips ultraviolet lithography rays of light to etch the chips. Only one company, machines and they cost Costs are going to go But if you can't yield the you have no choice. Intel didn't buy EUV years after TSMC, which to reach five nanometer And now TSMC will be the chips in the U.S., building the road from Intel's new So where does all this It's currently in high nanometer chips after years Ten was supposed to be here We still don't even know Their rationale for why ten tried to do too much. In July, Intel rebranded to nomenclature used by other Its seven nanometer chip, or Meteor Lake, has been This recent delay, the Gelsinger, has seven the second half of 2022, TSMC and Samsung have production on their three They've been having process 14 nanometers was delayed, seven nanometers is new. I still don't something slip as much as Like, it's shocking. We had some missteps. The strategy had become a role that we're going to the long term. And now with clarity, with clear The competition between chip in production is a positive has impacted all types of Apple is cutting its 2021 iPhone 13. Carmakers like production at some plants. When the personal computer the pandemic, it drew down Intel blamed this component business shrinking 2% in Q3 more than 10% after October. Intel stands alone company that designs and at scale. Traditionally, it designs. But now, in the changing that. You're going to not only also going to use those producing wafers for to use their design. It's totally a right hand We have always had much Intel is calling the new Foundry Services. We already have our first packaging deal. Our next and the U.S. government. Foundry has been wildly at the leading edge, analysts are not sure it'll Amazon presumably is going It's going to be that many Tiny, right? It's like five And if it turns out that partner, great. But if off their nose. The only benefit I would see wanted something to be United States. And the government is Chips Act, a proposed $52 chip companies committed to This is infrastructure. In 1990, 37% of the world's the U.S., but last year A moonshot would be that the is at 30% of manufacturing future. And I think the today is a great step to positive direction. As I like to joke, God reserves are. We could decide where the But analysts say much more bounce back. If the goal of that money is capacity onshore, it's not They need ten times that Because 92% of the world's currently made in Taiwan, supply is vulnerable to there, like earthquakes and escalating geopolitical Taiwan, and subsequently Every aspect of defense, operations is becoming more rely on foreign technology of our defense and national I don't think so. It's critically important supply chain, but for the must maintain this journey. However, it is going to playbook into work. The next steps in this efficient Intel's named it with an even smaller unit angstrom. Intel says the for 2025, will accelerate We will be the world's and manufacturer of silicon It is a tall order and it is will hit that. But if he would put them back, in my head to head.