Hello fellows, I am rummaging through my HP in suitcases. And as you can see the suitcases is momentous: I am going to rejoin Carl and Ken asked to help with the restoration of the Apollo the Apollo Guidance Computer is this 1960 famed and the LM, and guided the spaceship all the way from that when we were asked to help, we said yes That looks promising. Ooh! Hey Marc, how's hand. Hi there! Marc, I am Jimmie Loocke. NIce to hey well, you have gloves. And here's introduction later on - I have the lights and holy computer. You want to put your gloves on - check if the analyzer made it alive hopefully. probably do it off camera in this is QEXT 365 positive version of that 302 which is our 370 input right? So it looks like I have just stepped into a hotel rooms, and we all came here mostly because is what I'm looking at. So this is an Apollo 15 computers built. This particular one came out and by the way is Mike, sorry to interrupt, emulator - yeah - of the AGC, fully functional, the real thing. Because over here, [I'm] going to turn to is the owner, and tell us a little bit about this worked for a short time on the test of the lunar LM for the first time. In other words we simulated astronauts in the spacecraft. In 1976 I walked components and I started seeing all this equipment buying two tons of Apollo out of that warehouse two tons and you just told me at dinner that were working on - yes - the one that's - and And you preserved all that, right, the two tons I had no idea what I had. I knew that was from that familiar with some of the items and what these items were. I think it was 2004, AGC Mr. Eldon Hall. And we opened it up for the which makes it pretty unique. Normally your really see much of anything except for these you can see all the beautiful integrated Here is one of the modules - actually before I go the AGC itself. So here it's two halfs, and you can remove one - sure - maybe the memory or of these power supplies. So these are the analog power supply. It takes 28 volts in and puts 4 volts it - uh-huh. But for something that was made in a in a hurry. I'll grab another one - be careful - so this is - oh that looks like a block one Alright okay. So there's 16 sense that there is only one type of integrated circuit amplifiers are another custom integrated circuit are two to one transformers coming in from the that up, turn it into ones and zeros. And when a - that's actually the module that this thing is we can see the ICs. Normally there would be, it couldn't access it. But since this one was means - easy to test and repair - right - So that's, that was the explanation for the Yeah. Oh we have - there is some that are potted? the current switch module and the oscillator. potted - yes - uh-oh, so if there's a fault in it - are in trouble. So - looks black - it's black, on in here. So luckily, this is one of only a one works? Not yet - not yet? But this one It's a read module for the memory or? Yes. Or actually have the schematics of that thing. these pages is typically a single board. One of so two pages of schematics, one of these slide-in schematics? So Eldon Hall, the lead designer of logic modules. And he made them available for is when they became available. And then just of the landing code for the lunar module, sent us modules and all of the rest of it, all the stuff So he sent you - yes, yes, so he mailed me this you wanted to build a replica that was exact - and you were after the schematics and it - right - one of the original guys - yes today we can follow the schematics and see if 100% success rate with the three modules with We did have one chip that malfunctioned initially, probably a metal which was inside the chip - dislodged it, and the chip works fine now. So yep. And so therefore you can fly it again? This some of these gates are flight qualified. NOR gates in them. Oh and you can tell which dot in the top left corner. It means they were And Mr. Ken has been hard at work also. I have things - well just arrived, so I couldn't Ken? So these are core rope simulators that which we don't have, then connect to an Explain core ropes, core rope right? So to store it uses a special form of read only memory called these cores to make the ones and the zeros. So the mass of cores. So that's what we would call ROM that's the program in ROM. This was used for use these core rope simulators that let you feed It goes through the simulator into the Apollo want. So that box that you hold, that was in the plugs in instead of the core rope modules, so this Unfortunately we don't have any documentation for not going to stop you! It's not going to well. cordwood construction - let me zoom on it, where they've mounted components vertically they are or what they're doing. So it's very is it a transformer, is it a transistor? We just out. And we have no schematics for this thing? these modules here are used to hold integrated used in the early seventies for prototyping of favor, but we're still stuck with this. these is corroding and falling apart into little that we're finding inside with the integrated these bits of metal before they short something you. So these are called dipstiks - do you have You would think so - wait until you see what they core rope module? You have to use the two of them so 3 per box. So let me open up one of the I'm drinking from a firehose here. So wait the dipstik they have five integrated and then you stick the clip into this these. And on the other side there's wire wrap pins be a metal bar that goes on top to hold these falling apart into little bit of metal debris. you can see the metal bar is stuck at the bottom these three chips fell off the rail here. There's your core rope module emulator is probably it just means the chips are stuck down there contact. But when you put it together they will underside of the dipstik where each one of these can wire wrap your connections. Well that's not Clean except for the, you know, metal debris being picky! And then on the top here they That makes for something that's prototype we will need a demo later on, but that's away - time pressure, time pressure - but this is so obviously Carl was going for functionality of course wanted, if we had the time, if we were case where, you know, we can power it up. It's so all those boards around the outside are the of the design of the AGC. We expect no less from and green boards are doing? What the green boards are driving the seven segment displays and then inputs and outputs, driving the sign bits, and making the flashing of what it has to flash. It's ready to fly. It's not flight rated. Nice. What has your methodology been so far to test modules like these? So the low. So since these are NOR gates the output will by the way that's a good point: it's only NOR so they are all the same circuits. They use some them as just inverters, one input, but physically sorry I interrupted you. So the methodology is, low the output will be high, otherwise you want to it to go low one by one, to make sure that all the to see every nor gate function with every input so you look at every output pins and then high and low, and I say - every once in a being able to isolate it, and then we'll use the the intermediate states, and as long as we can see we know it's good. It's laborious. So of work - essentially gate by gate, or group of gates. 5200, so I was - and you're going to check far. So 120 in this module, it's taken us about like the scaler module went really fast. Right. right. And we just follow on make sure every one that didn't quite work and you had to so it basically takes the opcode and decodes instruction, so very important module. That's