You got John Rambo coming in on this mission to rescue who are probably listed as MIA. There's no evidence at all still held after the war. None. My name is Bill Allison. I'm professor of history at I've been a battlefield and I've written several including one on My Lai. Today we'll be looking at and judge how real they are. Spotted a large weapon down below. We're going to go down and check it out. All that's pretty accurate. The helicopters themselves as well as the helicopter in the scene, the smaller helicopter, that's a Loach. So, Vietnam is quite rightly Helicopters were used That's actually Filipino pilots. They borrowed those helicopters to use for this scene. Now, you might wonder why It's supposedly a VC Why do they have to get it over Why can't they just go up the coast? If you've not seen the film, there's a river patrol boat they need to get on the Nung River. Problem there is, the tidal for the boat to actually and that actually is Playing &quot;Valkyries&quot; just kind Is that real? Probably less so. In at least one case a veteran who did PSYOPs, he remembered flying around at night playing Vietnamese funeral music to try to freak out the VC. Was it effective? I would think not. And I think part of that is making an assumption that they're not as smart, that they would be and things like that. OK, there's napalm at work. Napalm is ubiquitous in the It actually is derived from World War II. Give you a point of comparison. Probably about 30,000 tons Almost 400,000 tons of napalm So, it's highly flammable. It's kind of like a gelatinous substance. So if it gets on you and You know, most people don't survive it, but it's designed to destroy cover, and if enemy are in there, then from your perspective Which is pretty horrific. I love the smell of napalm in the morning. Napalm does smell. Obviously, with everything that's in it, it's going to have a very So it has a very distinct Now, there's Robert probably one of the most iconic characters in any Vietnam film. He is based on a guy, in part who was the commander of the the 9th Cav of the 1st Cavalry Division. As far as it being a piece of In reality, eh, you know, it's a little ludicrous So I'm guessing probably about a five. The PAVN, also known as the NVA, the North Vietnamese Army, so it's the People's Army of Vietnam. The PAVN getting ready, I What this scene is depicting is the January 1st, 1968, attack which is near the Cambodian border. It's part of the 25th Infantry Division's area of operations. Oliver Stone, the director of &quot;Platoon,&quot; was in the 25th Infantry Division and was involved in these engagements. And so that weapon they put it's in essence a marker to know where they're at. So if they have to go back, they'll see that marker in the tree. They'll have a waypoint. This is an outer defensive perimeter, and they've got trip wires and that tells you somebody's out there. There! OK, what Charlie Sheen just did there was fire the Claymores. So you've got these Claymore mines wired out along the perimeter, so when the enemy comes through, they're explosive and they It's a clicker. And so you try to bang So, the bunkers that you see if you had the time to and put some logs on top of you, that's a good defensive position to be in. Soldier: Aah! Aah! You had a command bunker, with the grenade, blows it up, right? I'm like, &quot;Good luck with that.&quot; One, you gotta know where it's at. Two, you gotta be able to see it. It's dark except for the flashing of different which means you're going to have trouble maintaining your night vision. So that probably more likely or something like that from the enemy. Dump everything you've got left on my pos. Helicopter pilot: We are OK, this is a really desperate act. To call everything remaining, the problem with that is you're going to kill a And how often that happened So, a fire support base is but it's very organized, What's depicted here is not that, and so the VC are hitting it before it's well defended. And the actual battle, I'm not sure that's If you watch the scene in its totality, you know, I'd have to give it a six maybe. As far as the actual real battle, I think it's a little overplayed. Tunnels were kind of especially for the Viet Cong, but for the PAVN, that part, I don't know. I could see where they would have entrenched but to spend the time to like was depicted in this scene, seems to me a bit of a stretch. VC would do that because the not moving around as much. They have an operating PAVN, they're moving around. So, this is where we're really infatuated as a way to bring lots that otherwise you can't really get to. And the idea is an element of surprise. Although a bunch of isn't really surprising because you can hear So, this is depicting the November 1965 battle This is really the first face off against the People's Like, tete-a-tete. Right? This is part of Americanizing the war that the Johnson MACV, Military Assistance determine that the ARVN, the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, is not quite ready to fight on its own. This is a PAVN operation. They had the hat, you know, the conical hat, the black, right? OK, so the way the PAVN reacts, it seems like there's and that's actually kind of accurate. The battle of Dien Bien Phu Gen. Giap just ordered wave after wave of these costly assaults. I mean, they won the battle, but at great cost. And Giap was criticized for this. But this kind of stays in for the PAVN, of, &quot;This And in this scene, part of the tactic is to get or to your enemy as possible. So if you can get close and hug your enemy as quick as possible, that to call in the air strikes. But they're learning. This is early. We're talking 1965 here. So I don't think the PAVN the capability of American air power, how quickly it can respond. Broken arrow! Broken arrow! At 150! OK, &quot;broken arrow.&quot; For a lot of us, if we we would say, &quot;Well, Hal What's going on there?&quot; Because that's what the code word is for, some incident with a nuclear weapon. &quot;Broken arrow&quot; may have been the code word for that particular operation if they were in danger of being overrun. What happens when you call &quot;broken arrow,&quot; all air assets in the is supposed to converge on your position and drop on the coordinates that you give. And that's what happens here. And that's real, but it's not Hal Moore going, According to the book, it was the forward air controller. Minor inaccuracy. But Mel Gibson So, there's your napalm. And in one of these the napalm was dropped so that a couple of American in the napalm attack and killed. I know a lot of people because it's dramatic, and if they've read the book especially, but this attack, it just, it fails on a lot of levels, I think. I'd give it a five. Look out there, Sergeant. They got rifles. Can you see the rifles? This is a bad situation. We've totally lost He didn't want them to fire, The lieutenant there, he's clearly lost it because he's seeing So he's seeing VC running around, and he can see their SKSs or AK-47s. Tom Cruise's character &quot;I don't really see that.&quot; You've got bad leadership at the top. A guy makes a bad assumption. Then you have lack of command and control, discipline over your own troops. This is not outside the Soldier: We didn't do this, did we? Oh, my God. Jesus Christ. This just shows how things can go wrong and a lot of civilians So, if this village had and there had been actual clearly identifiable and everything, no doubt they would've and then swept into the village. This is not so much like a it's more of a sweep and clear. Search and destroy, which for the Americans in the Vietnam War, is basically go out, make contact with the enemy, then call in firepower to destroy them. Literally kill them. But when you do things and you kill a bunch of innocents, that sets you back a lot But there were instances where villages were attacked innocently. So, for example, the My Lai massacre, which occurred in March of 1968, when a company of American troops, as part of Task Force Barker, went into the Son My village complex, and specifically My Lai itself, expecting to find an entire and they get in there, and there's no 48th Local Force Battalion. It's not there. The villagers are there. But they're so amped up that they just, some immediately assume By the end of the day, between My Lai and a couple well over 500 men, women, But My Lai is a rarity. It's an exception. I'd give it an eight. It shows just how a or happenstance can cause a tragedy in war. And unfortunately, war is all Rambo: Go on! Get moving! So, the setup here is you on this mission to rescue who are probably listed as MIA. The war's over and there's by the nasty Vietnamese, right? There's no evidence at all still held after the war. None. But after the war, there became a cottage industry in Vietnam and especially in Thailand to families who had And all those missing names are listed in The New York Times. They know who they are. They They can create fake dog tags and rust them up and everything. And you'll pay, you know, who has this information In the hope of. Ross Perot got hung up in this, trying to rescue people again. Chuck Norris made six and rescuing these people. We get our history from movies. So we all come to believe It's a tragic deal all When this film comes out, you you gotta have the Now, would a Russian have Probably not. Thousands technical advisors, military throughout the whole conflict. A lot of them were there North Vietnamese antiaircraft crews to operate these Soviet and Chinese fairly sophisticated antiaircraft weapons. But they also have operational So that's not uncommon at all. I gotta like a guy who's muscled like that and can operate an M60 with impunity and kill pretty much everyone around him. But as far as reality goes, zilch. Gotta give it a zero. OK, let's set up this scene. This is from &quot;The Green Berets,&quot; and it was filmed in '66, So this is after the Tet Offensive, after the New Hampshire primary, after Martin Luther Johnson's announced he's This is not the best time to release a go, rah, Vietnam film. This is based on Robin Moore's novel called &quot;The Green Berets.&quot; In this particular scene, this Green Beret team is going to kidnap this PAVN colonel or general, but as far as units working together, like with the Green 1965, '66, '67, there's probably more the There would always be an ARVN like probably at the Certainly at the division level. The game must have been engrossing, because they don't hear anybody else. You've got six or seven guys and combat boots on, on a that apparently doesn't squeak, It's just totally ludicrous. And now we have to do and we have to rappel Because apparently the still are not alerted Ah, everything goes according to plan. So, the trip wire, is that a common thing I'd say no, because you want and get away quickly if anywhere close to like this one. But even then, do you have time to do it? That's more of a thing you Can I have a rating of: Should never have been Zero. Totally. And I hate to do that because part of me likes But this one, ah, no. This scene is depicting which is part of the great What you just saw with the Marines going behind the tank, yeah, that's good policy. But then you see all the firing. But what's funny to me is and immediately go into that area where they just pre-sighted, So if I was the bad guy, the enemy, I would've fired again while the Marines were all right there. But they don't do that. Now, to be clear, this looks Hue city, there's no It's very dense buildings. There's not a lot of maneuver room. But here it looks really open. In part this is because they at Beckton Gas Works. The one thing they do get right, because it's outside of So during the battle for Hue, it was overcast for most of the time, which made it difficult Now, if you notice at when the firing starts to it's not a single sniper, it's several machine guns set up there. A sniper would've fired a couple shots and got the heck out of there. These guys are in place, so So that's why the Marines respond with just blasting the area All right, so there he It was not uncommon for soldiers to have nice cameras. Because they get R&amp;R sometimes. They can go to Saigon, or Ho Chi Minh City, I should say, now. If they're officers, or someplace like that, and you could buy really nice And this would've been a PAVN sniper. The PAVN snipers are going VC snipers tended to use the tactic just to cause chaos and fear. So you randomly hit somebody. You see a guy on a radio that's probably an officer. You're an easy target. The visual part of it, the setting of it is, to me, all wrong. Other than the overcast I don't know. I'd give it probably a six. I don't think he needs binoculars to see that the enemy is The scene is really about the 1972 attack on Quang Tri. So the PAVN have occupied and the ARVN are trying to take it back. And the ARVN, of course, they've So their uniforms were So, you gotta remember, this is 1972, following the Easter Offensive. So by that stage, even though the United States is technically still in the war, we're not doing a lot of Most of our troops are Equipment's good. They've got AK-47s, some RPGs there. So, the PAVN unit that's depicted here is a basic infantry unit. Yes, by this time in They're a conventional force. The only thing they don't You did see initially the forward artillery guy calling in the artillery strikes, but there's no depiction of him asking for an adjustment of fire to hit, which, I think in reality there would've been a fire adjustment and they would've kept until they got really close So that part of it I I like this movie. Its production value is not great, but the storyline and and the way they depict I like it. And this battle scene, even though the ARVN guys are I gotta give it a six or seven, actually. I kind of like this one. So, I have two favorite Vietnam films. One is from the early '70s, And it's early in the war, it's in the advisory phase, and it's kind of foreshadowing the problems that are going to arise. The other one I like a lot is actually &quot;Good Morning, Vietnam.&quot; Hey, thanks so much for I hope you enjoyed it. If you want to watch some