Hear me out. I'm willing to bet that my fellow YouTuber are going to reference things like, fly Batman Forever and Heidi Klum. And that's Hey, everyone. Vince here from Autoindustriya And it is a bright and sunny and scorching As we're taking a look at the new BYD SEAL a pure electric sports sedan. Yes. Sports sedan. And later, when we drive it, we'll show Now, this is not our first time We've been waiting actually almost a year a very rainy Zhuhai And we remark that the handling, Absolutely incredible. And when we show you how it drives, Oh, my. It is one incredible car. Now the seal. It's something of a midsize sedan. We don't see too many sedans anymore And for that, and it's a very popular crossover and ability to go 1000km, This one is a pure electric vehicle, and it comes with BYD's blade technology, it's a lithium ion And the way BYD does their platforms, to body structure make it more compact, and make it handle The BYD seal is part of the brand's That's why the design I don't know, Atlantis Now the design details they have, We've also seen this kind of design from They're also going for the BYD logo, over here in front, which is really nice. Same headlights here That's a very striking feature of the Now when we go over here, really That's why they go for this kind of cover when going fast. Continental tires. Very nice. Now, this is a 4.8m long sedan It is fairly big. So that's something But one thing really notable It's 2.92m long for battery underneath And speaking of getting in the car, handles are nice and recessed, If you want to look up top, And comes with its own sunshade charging port right here If you have access to one, this one which is really good To open the trunk. What you get is a space that is 41-inches long and 39-inches wide, with a compartment and all that stuff But the rear seat can also fold down, to give you up to 65-inches in length overall. And there's also a frunk in front And you'll see here all the badging did and BYD seal and 3.8 S. That does not mean liters. That means 3.8 seconds from 0 to 100. The word I would really use to describe inside the big seal for the first time, You know, you look at the design of the dashboard It looks like ocean waves over there with the blue stitching the trim with the silver and the satin It looks very different. The center console, I mean, it has a nice And then you've got this Coke It's very unique. It's not something we see the door cards with the way the door It's got dynaudio speakers in this one, And then you look up because when you look up you've got this There's a sunshade hidden over in the back if you're not in the mood for from what we've become used to Now we pore over some of the controls starting with the steering wheel. It's a multi-function steering wheel, for your audio system. For the screen here, And then you've got controls for the pilot or the pilot, which is BYD's suite of advanced safety features, Keep all that stuff but it's all pretty much all controlled which is going to be very useful, Now, this screen here You've got your current power consumption, like right now it's consuming three really idling right here on the side The door starts because one door is open. State of charge right now, 73%. And your current range, which is 422km. This vehicle can do up to 580 overall because the one that they is the performance variant, Now, if we go to the controls here, of doing a central control So for example, So it's basically like a jewel right there It's very clean. It's R and D, so you pull it Your, start stop button you won't have to look for it It's no problem. And then you have your blind spot Auto brake. Hold your traction Well, not really gravel. I'll be sand I mean, we're not going to have snow here. You have your drive modes, So when you, when you, roll on the screen here, you'll get, and then let's go to normal So those are the three primary volume control. And then the climate control pretty much controls or at least activates But before that charging ports a, 12-volt outlet down there But the best part is this two wireless chargers for phones, meaning you guys don't have to share, a charger, You can both put your phones there No problem. But the main thing with buy these is Yes, it does the rotate 15.6-inches screen And you can also bring it back your preference. It does have wireless CarPlay And let's show you that And as you can see the response very nice. And very the graphics are very clear, and Apple CarPlay activates Now going to some of the other features Through this screen, Open driver, side window. Right there. Of course, you know, it's a nice touch especially when you're going fast. And mind you, this car is very fast. But, some of the other features Your Bluetooth there, your radio, We don't really tend to use that. This one. It's something we'll use quite a bit, which is the vehicle image So it gives you a view of the car around The image is not complete, And you can position your vehicle rashes on your wheels with this vehicle, of this system, which is cool. You can choose different angles, preset angles, or right there The climate control is something because the way you control, the AC vents if you notice, there's switch or anything that you can use. Instead, what you use is this screen. So if you can see it right now, Same with this, same here. That it really depends. But you control it all from this Here you have seat venting Depending on what you want use, you have the PM 2.5 filter there, If we tap this button here, some of the other features of the vehicle For example, for this vehicle so you can maximize when it comes to charging and all that. So that's going to be very, very useful. Now we go to the energy tab here. So here you can see your average So the consumption is going to be going to vary you have odometer reading only 29km. You know, charging settings The charging of this one from 30 to around, which is something you want And speaking of charging, this can take and as well as a, fast charger up to 150. So it's very, very fast. You have the energy manager here State of charge is 72 range But what's interesting about the seal, that you're going to enjoy What that is is it's like an advanced torque but different from what you would normally see in other models because in, Gt-r that, say a torque vectoring system, because it's electrically that sense, Whereas in a traditional I.C.E., what the engine and the wheel is actually doing before It's faster, it's real time. And on a very wet Zhuhai circuit, And right now, I mean, it's pretty bright and sunny, Hopefully we won't The thing about these performance EVs is that everyone just keeps, Well, I can't until totally understand All you have to do really is And when you put your foot down, And you can really enjoy the torque That's the attraction of EV. It dumps all the torque at you right away. And right now, sport mode. Whoa ho! Warp speed, Mr. Sulu. That is what this vehicle gives you. So if you're really someone who enjoys a little bit of hooliganism, a little bit, But if you're someone who's just looking that is comfortable, then you put it into normal mode You don't have to worry too much because you got acoustic glass in front for the driver. So it's nice and quiet here really chill and mosey you've got a great audio system Once you get the full throttle moments then you can start enjoying it meaning you just pop it into normal mode Like if you just drive it normally, it's comfortable, So it's really quiet The motors, they don't make And then you've got this, acoustic glass You've also got less vibration or pistons or anything that reciprocates, It's absolutely smooth. So when you're driving along, which you really can with the range of for everyone, whether you're driving But once the road gets a little bit twisty like that, it just feels so connected. And that's because the center of gravity of this vehicle, they engineered it So when you're like winging a cornering, Yes, EVs are going to be heavier. That's just going to be the way it is. But what matters is how you engineer it that you won't normally expect And once the and have some fun. I can't but hopefully dry next time. While everyone is working hard to catch No pun intended, because they've already They've already integrated it make sure that they are leading That is what they're showing us This is their halo model for all of their So the pricing of this one is around We'll have the final pricing Anyways, you guys let us know if the pricing of this one Man, I couldn't resist. This is Vince of Autoindustriya.com Thank you for watching. Don't forget to leave a like and subscribe for more