Well, hello there and welcome to this episode And I wanna start with a question. Do you find yourself ruminating about decisions Do you find yourself regretting things you took at different points in your life? How much time do you spend regretting the Regretting experiences? Well, if you're nodding your head yes because to doing those things, then this video is Because in this video I'm gonna be talking let them go, but more importantly, how to So before we get started, if you are new to comments below because we really are a friendly Don't forget to subscribe and hit the bell roll out something new, which is every Tuesday And, hey, man, I wouldn't want you to miss I also wanna say thank you guys so much for That's what makes it such a healing and safe So I love to highlight your comments. So right now I'm highlighting a comment under 2022? from Joseph's Mom3373. And Joseph's Mom says, &quot;Very helpful, Terri. I've heard your end-of-the-year video for This year's experience has really allowed I get it. I know what I'm leaving and working on and Thank you for you, wishing you so much joy Well, Joseph's Mom3373, thank you for you you being here because it's all of you guys safe and sacred place to hang out. So thank you, thank you, thank you. All right, let's move it on into today's content. Why do we have this tendency to have regrets, Why, as human beings? Let me just make this super bold, definitive Having regrets is frigging pointless. You know? Now I'm not saying we can't feel guilty. Wish we had done something different. Want to make amends about something, right? That's not what I'm saying. But I've had clients who for years, they are regretting the past. And it's as productive as like bashing your It doesn't do anything. But what does it do? It anchors you in the past. And what happens when we are anchored in the What are we doing? Oh, we're missing our one and only amazing come again, by the way, right? The moment that we're in right now, it's only And if you are thinking, feeling bad about You're missing what's happening now. You're missing your opportunity to make choices won't regret now. So part of the process of why we do it, right? Let's talk a little bit about that. Listen, we're fear-based as human beings. This is like kind of the state of being. And making mistakes can get really stuck in It can get stuck in our side where we're afraid Why? Afraid of rejection. And maybe you're ruminating because you made ended in rejection or the end of a relationship, business partnership or whatever it may be, So there's reasons why we wanna avoid it, is not the way to avoid future regrets. So in the guide that I'm giving you with this it. I'm giving you a whole step-by-step process that you're experiencing or that you've been Cuz a lot of us become defined by our regrets, I blew up because I wasn't ready to have a the right person. It's sort of the story of the one that got There's something that you can do that is regrets. Because wherever you spend your time psychologically, Whatever you spend the most time holding in into your life by doing that. So if you're thinking about crap that you into your life that you will regret. And when you think about how long we live, It's one thing if you're in your twenties, But then if you are collecting regrets from your fifties, you're talking about a whole And what we're really doing is keeping our We're keeping our badness close to our heart. Like, I made those mistakes, I'm bad, or I wish I hadn't. I get that. But you know, I could say, I wish I was born here's the thing, I wasn't. And there's no way for you to go back in time So this is the thing that we wanna avoid, is so counterproductive. It doesn't do anything to change how you feel So let's move into what might. How do we do it? And stop being such a bully to ourselves about And another thing I wanna say before I get make mistakes. You are a human being. That's it. Like you're flawed. We're all flawed. So the same way that you would treat your you need to start thinking about treating There's gotta be self-compassion. There's gotta be a level of kindness that I have total faith you did the best you could right? What do we say? We did the best we could with the level of the self-awareness. I could spend the rest of my life regretting continue to make. But I don't, right? I think about before I got sober when I was behavior. But I don't, I have forgiven myself. I understand that I did things when I was I would not do sober. And there's gotta be that self-acceptance why you did the things that you did. Listen, nobody really teaches us. There's no training, no modeling of how to in life for most of us. And listen, I could be wrong. Maybe some of you came from family systems But I know from being a therapist for 25 years &quot;my parents modeled problem solving and expert did. Right? It wasn't a thing. I don't know that it's a thing now. I hope it is. I hope that modern parenting is doing that. But we need to extend compassion to ourselves Now, when I say a pass, I mean accept that What can we learn from the mistakes? Well, as I love to say, in every crap stew in there. If you are willing to roll your sleeves up for what did you learn about yourself, even to revisit and have been like, okay, there from this terrible, terrible scenario. And even things that I had nothing to do with, or whatever, right? Rather than just having it be an awful experience. Of course it was an awful experience. But I go, what did I learn about myself? What did I learn about my family? What did I learn about my friends? And there's always something in there when though, which is different than just having Horrible experiences we've sort of created. We have to be willing to go through the, to the thing that we can get out of it. We can not do it again. We can make amends if we did something terrible, But I also want you to think about the things to them, probably differently than if it were You probably wouldn't be so punitive. You probably wouldn't be so mean in the way Really think about it. It's unlikely that you would say the things your own mind. Cuz this is just so common that we have an expectations of ourselves, you know? All right, so I'm gonna walk you through the terricole.com/guide, which is you're gonna you deeply regret something that could fall about in this episode. Then I want you to reflect on your reasons Why? Did it hurt someone else? Did you ruin an opportunity for yourself? Did it hurt someone else's feelings? Think about it. Like why do you regret it? Was there a negative ripple effect from it? We wanna kind of identify what that ripple Did it negatively impact the quality of your So you're gonna write all that down. Then step three, you're gonna write down why time, but I want you to do it from the perspective So it's not gonna be you. Think about it, what would your best friend So you're gonna refer to yourself in the third are actually in the downloadable guide. So you don't have to write it all down. Just listen and start to wrap your brain around got fired from a job. You might write: working for that abusive boss was hard on Cuz that's what your friend would say. You didn't have the skills to express what knew you had to get out. You missed that deadline and got fired as You protected yourself the best way you knew So that's what you're gonna do in step three, narrative or explanation about why you did Because listen, you had reasons. We all have reasons why, even if they're misguided, wrong. But we had our reasons at the time, you know? So doing it from a third party makes it a And step four, which is super helpful, what the same situation? So I'm gonna ask you to sort of journal this are going to be focusing your attention on What can you do differently right now? Is there an amends that needs to be made? Do you want to do that? Is there someone that you can talk to? When you think about what happens when we our ability to grow because it's like we're box of like, I am this person. I mean, I've worked through all of the regrets it is to ruminate, but I will still sometimes I said. But then I write about it. As soon as I get something like that, it tells some way. There's still more that that part of me needs And so I just go to my journal and I just Why now? What happened? Was there a precipitating event that inspired Is there anything you can do? Why are you still thinking about it? Did something happen recently that reminded And just journal whatever comes to mind. And you can just freehand journal, right? It doesn't have to be that you're perfectly It's almost like having a cut. And if it starts hurting again, you know that There's some kind of an infection or something So imagine that as you're journaling, you heal properly. But the most important aspect of this entire is that you don't want to waste your precious sh*t about things you did in the past. Regrets weigh us down, right? They're exhausting. They take bandwidth. Like, I don't know about you. I need all the bandwidth I can get. I do not have any spare bandwidth to give So again, our reframe, the lens with which see them through the lens of learning. What can I learn about myself? Can I actively and compassionately forgive And it's not about letting ourselves off the It's not about doing something horrible and This is more for people who have, you know, ego, right? It's like this conscience, this part of you It could have to do with being a perfectionist. It could have to do with not being allowed It could have to do with being an empath, people feel more deeply than others who are So part of it is you understanding yourself exercise on any and all of the regrets. And you know them. Listen, we all have some regrets, right? Whether you ruminate on them or not is - that's But there's nobody who's lived a life that We all make missteps, but this is a part of It's the light and the dark. It's not just the light. And so acknowledging the dark, acknowledging the mistakes. This is how we can be fully integrated as have these things. Literally, there is no person alive who doesn't Like there's certain things that are just you live on the globe and having regrets if right? I mean, listen, there are some mental health category. Sociopath, potentially a narcissistic personality But I'm just talking about regular folks like We're gonna have regrets. Anyway, long way around the barn to get back that you're gonna find in the guide: terricole.com/guide, in the world to create the life, the relationship, I don't want one drop of it pointlessly going about, you know? So anyway, I hope this added value to your If it inspired you, please share it with other Thank you for being with me and as always,