Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. This point of light in the sky is Earth as seen from the surface of Mars. And this is Earth as seen from Saturn. Here's an image taken only 45,000 kilometres away, the famous Blue Marble. But what does Earth really look like? Well, it depends on how you define &quot;look&quot;. The word look comes from mean eye, the human eye. And that's part of the problem. humans can see. But we don't see everything. sound to illustrate just how different other creature visual spaces are from our our own. physically looks we are talking about the visual perception of emitted or reflected electromagnetic radiation. Specifically, visible light. Light we perceive as red has a longer wavelength than blue or violet. even shorter? Does it stop being light? No, it just becomes light you can't see - ultraviolet, X-rays, gamma rays. microwaves and finally, radio waves. In principle, the spectrum of possible electromagnetic wavelengths is infinite. But even within the range of wavelengths we observe, the breadth is breathtaking. If the entire practical spectrum of wavelengths was laid out linearly from New York to Los Angeles, would only be the size of 100 nanometers. Small enough to slip through a surgical mask. Point is, when it comes to what their is to see, our eyes miss out on lot. For instance, take a look a remote control. of wavelengths we can't see but mobile phone cameras can. Try this at home. Push a button on a but use a mobile phone camera and have them rendered visible. we miss out on. Our night sky is full of frequencies we can't see with our eyes alone but Chromoscope.net allows you to extend your vision. the visible light it gives off. But slide to see how it would look if our eyes Of course, we are having to represent with visible colours because even is bounded by our puny limits. As for Earth, if we only saw infrared like this in our minds. ultraviolet vision would return With X-ray vision auroras around the and gamma ray vision would give from high-energy electromagnetic at a shallow angle. So, which view is correct? Is there an absolute true appearance of the Earth? We haven't even started yet. Look back at the Blue Marble. of &quot;north&quot; meaning &quot;up&quot;? Perhaps, it's because we often equate &quot;up&quot; with &quot;better&quot; and many early map makers were from But upside-down maps are equally true, no matter how strange day may seem to us. the famous Blue Marble itself is a up bias. It didn't originally look like this. The crew of Apollo 17 originally took it like this. NASA rotated it to fit our traditional idea of up after the fact. Here's a visual birth that comes from animation of our planet. in its shadow at this very moment. on Earth as well, like the Moon's shadow. Last week @BadAstronomer shared this actually the Moon's shadow during a Solar Eclipse as seen from above Earth. the Blue Marble - it's flat and the Earth is three-dimensional. but globes are difficult to carry around dimensions, well, you just can't see everything at once. A flat map of the Earth is really convenient but requires projecting a globe onto something flat. And a sphere's surface cannot be without distortion. the limitations of flat maps. There's no such thing as a perfect flat map of the entire world. Some maps are useful for some but it is really fun to pick on the Mercator projection, mainly because it's so popular and is mainly because it's so easy to zoom in on. It preserves shape decently well but suffers when it comes to area. As I've shown before, Africa is huge. Its area is so large the fit inside of it, along with all of China, India, Japan and much of Europe. But on the Mercator projection scale near the poles is pretty wonky, distorted, which means Greenland appears to be as large as Africa, even though in reality it is only 1/14th the size. There's more. Check out Alaska and Brazil on a the same size but in reality Brazil is nearly five times bigger than Alaska. Areas near the equator are minimized, whereas areas closer to the poles are exaggerated. To have fun with this problem, play the Google Maps Mercator puzzle. The red pieces are usual locations. Now, what the heck is this weird shape? Well, let's pull it away from a lot and now it's Australia. You can see how the math behind map by interacting with them on Jason Davies' brilliant site. Notice how small projection when pulled down to the equator and how exaggerated it becomes To be fair, the Mercator projection is great for navigation. If you want something that is more fair try the Gall-Peters. Here, landmasses are the right relative size but shape is sacrificed. Everything looks a bit too narrow. Enter the Mollweide. This projection shows equal areas and is a bit more pleasant shape-wise. If you interrupt the Mollweide around and the shape of land masses becomes even more accurate. When it comes to the shortest of the Earth, Gnomonic projections are really cool. Every straight line journey taken on circle. On Mercator projections actual straight line paths look curved. But every straight line on a Gnomonic projection is also a straight line in real life - the shortest route. If you want a compromise between shape and area, Winkel tripel, which the produces since 1998. Or a beautiful butterfly map that could be a ball until it's of glass. The Dymaxion map can unfold to show how nearly connected Earth's landmasses are. It's a great way to visualize human migration overtime. It's quite impressive how far and wide humans have traveled on earth, to realize just how narrow our slice of visual perception really is. But don't feel bad. Julian Bayliss. Yes, hello, is this doctor Julian Bayliss? [ON THE PHONE:] Yes, speaking. Bayliss told me about how spotted some dark green vegetation. It looked like a rain forest. and it turned out to be just that - a rain forest we had previously never seen. I asked him more. So, what have you found there? [ON THE PHONE:] just from Mabu. about 4 butterflies, 2 new species of plants and we've only really just been into the the other day, a scientific paper. 8.5 million species in this world 1.5 million or between 1.5 and 2 million. So, we've actually only discovered maybe one fist of everything that's living on this planet. Wow, our eyes only see a tiny fraction of what there is to see. But within that tiny fraction there are still an enormous number of things left to find. [ON THE PHONE:] thanks for watching.