Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and today we're going to take a look at an interesting transitional, basically a Special Forces sniper rifle from the British military. This is an Accuracy International Arctic Warfare, an AW, which was adopted by the British as the L118A1 and L118A2. Now this specifically is actually a commercial Arctic Warfare that has been kitted out to duplicate the 118 type of rifle, which is actually fairly appropriate because the British standard army never adopted this rifle. It was only used in, or is to this day, only used in pretty limited numbers by Special Forces units. So we're talking the Special Air Service, the Special Boat Service, some of the Royal Marines, like mountain and arctic units. Those guys use these in limited numbers and limited it's limited enough that they ... were rarely off-the-shelf AI rifles, that were delivered to So it's pretty much what we have here, a commercial Now the Arctic Warfare started which was the first Accuracy International It was Accuracy International's PM, or as a competitive rifle. It became the British with its, at the time, pretty revolutionary chassis system, In particular Sweden. Sweden approached &quot;We like that thing you made for the British, environmental situations. We need one that will Hence &quot;Arctic Warfare&quot;, so around 1998 AI developing the L96 for the British, and they put these all ... Apparently they actually did all of the ... Well their arctic testing produced a number of they increased the size of the thumb hole in they added a couple of grasping and then there are a number of other Things like the side panels on the receiver are made out The L96 receiver panels, the AI PM, were These are a lot more substantial, They introduced a larger, a better scope on this. And the Swedes thought this was great. They And that started a number of other countries Arctic Warfare, and that would come that the Swedes adopted this, These are all in 7.62 NATO but they were an units started ... basically started There are a number of specific improvements Why don't we go ahead and take a closer look at exactly So the Arctic Warfare retains most of the features of, [Precision] Marksman rifles. However, little things have down here for easier grasping with gloves. This is One of the elements that Sweden very So we'll start all the way in the back. it also locks the trigger. You then have an is still disconnected, but you can operate the bolt. clear the rifle on safe, anything like that. And then the front position is your actual fire that is really, really nice. That is a fantastic No excuse not to have a One other aspect that AI had to change for was to add these little cutouts to the back of the When you had the bolt closed, if you it was possible for the bolt to actually freeze in the By adding these cut-outs they've reduced the with the receiver here, and made it much easier So that is a distinctive part of As I mentioned, these polymer stock halves are now much This is the A2 version of the gun in British military The original ones that were purchased were the A1 which still had a fixed stock. This folder is operated by this button And then over here we have a and that just holds the stock in the folded position. In order to deploy it you just pull it out, One of the features that the 118 has that it's The L96 also had a rear monopod, You deploy this by pulling down on this big band. That pops out. These little cut So if we pull this down we can then snap it up individually like that, and then this ... You also got an adjustable cheek lift that to wherever is comfortable As with previous versions of the rifle, you have removable spacers on the butt pad so you One of the more substantial improvements here with a standardised Picatinny rail. This now has a quick detach optic. Schmidt &amp; Bender optic here, the L17A1. As we midlife service update to the L96 that But this scope first went into service Adjustments on these are all in milliradians. So your click adjustments are 1/10 of a mil. you also have a bullet drop compensator built into the main that automatically sets a range or sets to specific ranges in hundreds of metres, down here in tenths of a mil. Same Focus distance adjustment dial. We'll talk about this in just a moment. That's an One of the other military add-ons to the rifle So this unscrews. There it is, you don't need to have it if you don't Note the markings on here are We have a serial number, 08 is the manufacturing Of course we have our British proof marks up here. And AI's manufacturer mark on the left side. This rifle is fitted out with an angle as well as a Picatinny mounted spirit level. Seems like a simple thing, but that's been adopted as part of the British sniper things of competitive shooting that The bipod on the 118 is a Parker-Hale AI bipod on the L96. But Now instead of attaching in a So the standard attachment point was However, one of the other interesting (also acts as a new sling swivel) which We can snap the bipod on in there which gives you a couple inches of extra elevation which means you can get yet more elevation by reason. Once these guns were they would end up also becoming the with ... Special Forces training for response to the capability to sit on the tarmac outside an And that requires quite a lot of elevation. fire at a very sharp angle upwards, but you know that's going to require exactly that is going to alter its pivot point and then you extra elevation from bipod legs (which of course extend), The muzzle here has a single (Left-hand threaded there.) which has a little wrench hole in it, we can apply what the British would call the moderator, And that's going to... It's got a little... (Thread that on.) Gonna come back So there's that guy mounted on. A Another cool accessory for this which of course has AI's Union Jack flag there, put on the rifle, zeroed, and then taken off and put in So we have a front sight post like so. That gives you a front post. And then you have a rear sight BDCs set up for 200 out to 600 zeroed for 200 metres, which is like your So that just drops on. You would want to you set it, just to make sure that you But this sort of sight wouldn't As you can see, you can't have the scope on That front sight allows you to do a few ... The idea of a mirage strap is that it prevents heat We're going to loop that and then we have a little Allen head screw, socket So you might not think that you're gonna shoot a to create mirage. However, that doesn't where that mirage is going to be much You may have noticed that there are a couple Well, this was also set up with this offset Picatinny Why would you have an offset piece of rail but why would you have that here facing inward? Well, that was there to mount the Sniper which was obviously a thermal scope so you don't have to change your zero, You simply have your daytime scope There is this piece of little single unit Very much a military only feature because image intensification scope, or a night vision scope. This actually is viewed down here, so you I've got a locking lever, and now instead of now it is image intensification. So a lot of different thermal, daylight, night-vision, folding stock, fixed And a lot of these capabilities would also be and, of course, they would be rifle that the British would adopt as a standard Cool accessory for you guys here. A lot of this standardised. So, you know, the L118 was So this for example, is a case, a kit for attaching we're going to have an AI mounting block. This would fit There's a separate mounting block which is backward And then you've got the mounting rail that you (you can read it here, there you go), And then the .338 rifles because they have geometry to the mounting rail. And you've got all of that in one convenient armourer's kit. So you can put that thermal on anything you want. So these rifles are actually still in again still in relatively limited numbers. What this rifle would do in the long run is serve as and what eventually replaced it as the That is an Accuracy International which is quite the hard-hitting serious we will talk about the L115 in a important to to talk about this thing as So if you haven't seen the video on We'll have a link to that at the end of this video. And if you want to know more about the quite modern ones and also the British sniper program Steve Houghton's book, &quot;The British Sniper Rifle A we have a link where you can pick it That book has a lot more detail on this and it's accessories Thanks to Steve for access to this rifle and thank you very much for watching.