- And we can move that (engine whines) (upbeat music) - Over 50,000 horsepower, that's massive. - Just be careful, Sam, the - Test cell, which is a - Wow. - But we can do water ingestion testing. (engine whines) - Well, this is our DreamFix facility. - What went wrong with the Dreamliner? - A special Trent 1000 over here. - Wow, this is a very different one. - Once it's finished, this indoor testbed for experimental testing. - It's like a swimming pool. - Yeah, yeah, it's a bit, it - I'm really impressed, but for the future generation Welcome to Derby in the U.K. When you think about Rolls-Royce, you probably think about their cars, Rolls-Royce Phantom, Rolls-Royce Ghost. But for AvGeek like me and many we know Rolls-Royce make Today we're going to take a look inside the Rolls-Royce engine factory. (upbeat music) This building's like, huge. Looking through what they done, to me, it's like rocket science. But here it's just production. Every 20 days a new engine get produced. - Welcome, Sam, to our This is where we start So today we're going to look at which is the exclusive engine on the A350. (engines hum) (upbeat music) Start of the process really, here. We've got behind us a fan disc. So this is where the fan blades go. If you look over behind the fan disc you can see where the blades come in. So they're manufactured So you've got fan blades, fan disc, and over on the table and they're the pieces to make a nice, smooth finish for the air flowing into the engine. So this really is the start of the process for our XWB engine. Then what we've got here now the blades and the and formed the fan that goes where the flow goes through the engine. And it's the fan that of the thrust for the engine. And this is an assembled - Wow, look at this blade here. - Just be careful, Sam, the - Pretty sharp? - And that's to get a really We've just seen the fan at What we're looking at now that goes at the back of the engine. Now, what this is is what drives the fan with a compressor end, so you tend to see turbine blades hidden and then a long shaft that goes through the middle of the engine or the fan at the front. So this is another module on build that comes together to (upbeat music) What we've got here now is at the back of the engine. That's the start of the core build, so that's why at the back of the engine we've put that vertically in what we call a stack, And then on the other side we've got the fan being built. You saw the fan blades This is the fan case, and and wires on the outside, And you can see we use electronic models to direct the guys that So they'll look on the screen, look at where the pipes before they go and actually (upbeat music) So this is where we build So what we do there is we at the bottom, build up to the combustor and then the turbines on the top. And as you can see, the different levels, where the guys that are need to be close to the so the floor moves as the (upbeat music) Behind me, the core She is now ready to marry with the fans. You remember the fan and the Here's the final core ready to go, we just need to join it to the fan. If you look behind me here, you can see the core has been flipped to being horizontal, and the big fan case has been put on the front. - [Sam] Phil, what's this spinning around? Well, before we put the we need to make sure that the fan blades are a perfect fit to the fan case. We don't want a very big and the blades, so this and making sure that they're - Behind the 22 giant fan blade They can generate, each so together, 68 turbine blade generate over 50,000 horsepower, that's massive. This looks like the - Just 20 days from start to finish, and the engine's ready before it goes to our customer. So let's go over now and - Test facility, so the engine - That's right. - That's where we go next, let's go. (upbeat music) - Welcome to 58 Bed control room. Here is where the guys whether it's to gather data We take the engine, we rig and we carry out the either to test it for maturity, pressures, temperatures, here in Derby in the test bed. This is basically the pilot takes control of the engine with the throttle, and we can move that (engine whines) And that will then put the through the power range. We gather the data, we electronically and And we also look at real-time to ensure we are getting So we have a safety system which allows us to make sure and the personnel out of the test facility before we start work So every single system has a lock on. Until all those locks are in place we cannot start the engine. It's an interlock system for safety. So here we are, entering which is a building within a building, which makes the building extremely quiet when we run the engine. (upbeat music) This is the test cell now. So when we go through this door and we'll be able to look - Wow. (upbeat music) - This is where we do We can do pass-off testing right before engines go to the customer, we can do research testing Some of them really exciting that we don't do very often, ready for certification, where we blow a fan off and check that it's contained within the system. We could do a-- - Destroy a blade to show-- - To just prove that should very unlikely that it would, that event is safe, so we do that. We can do water ingestion testing. (engine whines) We pour loads of water down to simulate a storm and and show that the engine We can do bird strike at the engine to simulate if you were to hit a bird and show that the engine's strong And we can also do what we where we basically bring and put the engine in it. - Make it really cold. make it really, really cold, and prove that we can start find it more difficult to start So all kinds of really important testing that we can do on this cell in Derby. - All right. - So should we go now and where we get the engines ready before they go on to the testbed? Okay, so we're entering our prep shop, our preparation shop, before they go on the testbed. Now, every engine that will come through here before it gets delivered to our customer. So relatively simple setup just to make sure Very similar to what you So anytime we build a car, to the car showroom they just to make sure everything's We put the white on the it's different to what but it simulates the front of the engine. We connect it up to this which simulates the pylon, the bit that attaches the It's not exactly the same, And then you can lots and So the data then comes from the pylon connects and all that data flows that we saw in the control rooms, so the engineers and the test engineers can understand how the (upbeat music) - So Sam, this is our DreamFix facility which is a physical of the effort we're putting we've got with the Trent 1000, and reduce the disruption which we are really regretful of. At the moment we've got which we're fixing quickly on a turn time to get them back out into the fleet. And you see around you, to really start to get onto embody all the fixes that we (upbeat music) - The Trent 1000 engine for 787 Dreamliners, but What went wrong with the Dreamliner on the Trent 1000 engine, Richard? - Well, we had three issues, to try and understand Imagine you've got a car, but you know that the tyres you know that the windscreen wipers'll wear out at some point. Those things happen, to fix them as and when they need. Two of our problems were like that. So we had an HP turbine and IP turbine that were wearing out slightly so you bring them in to replace On top of that, and the a bit trickier was we had which was not something that So it's not like wearing your tyres out or looking at your windscreen wipers. Imagine you had a problem with an oil pump that you had to bring in. If you bring that car in because the tyres you know have worn out, replace the wiper blades and That's why it's take a while for us to flow all of these fixes in, just because you don't necessarily The engine's perfectly safe it's just that we're not as we and our customers would like it to. So that's the three So imagine you're bringing in your tyres, we're putting new tyres changing the windscreen because they might still be good to go. Then you come in next time, you change the windscreen wipers, That's why it takes a long time, but we'll get there and It's all ready, the design So Sam, we're in the DreamFix facility looking at Trent 1000s, a special Trent 1000 over here that's got some of our newer technology for future engines on, which if you want to walk this way. - Let's take a look. (upbeat music) Wow, this is a very different one. This one has blue turquoise It looks like carbon rim here, yeah. So what's the latest technology - So this is actually a test engine for our latest carbon/titanium which is the application to reduce the weight of the fan and the fan case. It's running on a Trent 1000 donor engine, 'cause it happens to be the right size, but we're putting this through its paces. This technology, it's taken a while for us to surpass our own And that's fundamentally because carbon blades, while they they weren't as good for air dynamics, whereas our titanium blades they're excellent for both. Now we've got a technology where, because of the 3D weave we can make a blade and aerodynamically efficient. So a system like this at this size would save about 750 pounds per engine, which is about, obviously 1,500 pounds of weight either burn less fuel 'Cause what we'll also do is we'll put an explosive and explode that when the and then the engine has the kinetic energy of that blade. If one of these were to let the amount of energy that would be similar to if and drive off a 100-foot cliff. That's the amount of energy And what we've got to prove is that, the engine doesn't necessarily have to continue running but it does have to make and no high-energy debris to go and harm the fuselage. So if one of these were to then you might spill your gin and tonic but you'd be perfectly safe. (upbeat music) - So today we're changing because today we're going to see something under the construction. - We're here today at Bed 80. So once it's finished, this indoor testbed for experimental testings. This is where we actually push our engines to their ultimate limits how they really perform. So what we're doing now is really putting the intelligence into the building. We're fitting out the to control the engine, understand what the engine's doing. And we can actually read on this bed, and we can and we can actually stream so that it can actually link real time to all our various models. So really exciting for us, it's not just a construction This is about testing for We're now inside what So this is where we a built experimental engine, but we're now bringing it in So this is where we put so effectively we've made the engine think it's fitted to an aircraft. So that the reason for is to allow us to actually and get them ready, and with UltraFan, clearly one of the largest particularly in terms of its fan size. - That's huge. Yesterday I was in Testbed But this is really generation of engine like the UltraFan. Much, much bigger and much, - That's correct, this is a lot bigger. But again, bigger for a reason. The UltraFan, the fan size We will be putting a through this testbed. So again, this is all about into that engine, and we can do big. Absolutely, we can do UltraFan, and clearly we've designed But the important thing in this bed, as well, to much smaller engines. It will basically be able to and every engine we're at this point in time. - It's like a swimming pool. It's a bit, it isn't So what this is about, this is about we have a floor in here, and when we're testing, But when we want to get to the engine, because it's raised to such a height, what this allows us to do is to the engine, and this allows while it's in the testbed, and then we lower it back down again. But yeah, absolutely, you can imagine people do come in thinking it's our pool. But yeah, no, it's a floor (upbeat music) We've moved from the test cell. We're now into the first which is where we start to manage the air coming out of the engine. Anyone who's been at the airport, you know what the noise is like. And I think lots of people on YouTube of the people and seeing the power of (engines roar) Clearly, we need to make about all that power, and So this is about a which has actually been that air down as it comes Again, so by the time it people won't even realise This is effectively where the When we look at this we call it the basket for obvious reasons. So this is where the air, it's come through the big tube we've seen, it comes into here which And what we're doing here it's hitting that, what does look like the front of an engine, But what that cone's then throughout this space, we spread the air out, we slow it down, and the This testbed you know, probably every 10 to 15 years, so from an engineer's point a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. So we've got people working on this who are very, very they're doing something for the future, future generations, and the opportunity again in their - Then your legacy would - That's it, absolutely. for such an engineering feat like this. - Yeah, absolutely. (air whooshing) (bell dings) (bubble pops)