How y'all doing? Y'all good? Audience member: Oh, man. Thank you all so Oh... You guys, uh ... ready to be offended? Audience member: No, don't fucking say that. And then go on Like, oh Matt has some and end my fucking Just wanna have a good Comedy almost isn't fun. Okay. Having to adhere to Since when? That shit is so new. Remember, like three years ago about how you felt? Like three years ago and were like: "I don't like.." a stranger will come "Shut up, bitch!" and punch Like, ahh! Now I hurt on the Ahhh! I feel like we've gotten so We've gotten so soft... Like fresh-out-the-pool-dick Only the fellas understand that you don't even recognize You're like: Who's dick is this? Who put a baby dick on me?! That's how I feel like we are, It's exhausting. So I'm glad we could for a night of laughter. It's good to see y'all. black people good to see y'all. White people sitting in the back, Well you're smiling, good. I'm glad you're in a good mood. Did you say sorry today? Did you say sorry to Get your Venmo out right now. Cash app every black Gets you through the We're going to get these Okay? I'm sorry it took so long. I just got here. Alright? Y'all got to learn how to take But we gonna figure it out. Oh, white people been so sorry Oh, my God. It's been my favorite Just white people trying to in front of black people. Because it'll always and then just gradually like white person number Well, you know, I two times in a row. You're like: alright, Now white person number So he's like, That's crazy. I was just talking about and... You"re like: Yeah, probably couldn't swim... It might check out. Now white person number and black Jesus. He's panickin' he says Well, Madea's my You're like: Gotcha! Liar! Madea is nobody's Not even black people's. I think it goes Soul Plane God. Arrgh! It's all It's heavy. It's starting to feel like And like every room AA meeting where I I feel like I have to Like: Hey, guys, Just want to introduce I do identify as a And everybody's like: Boo! Your like I know I I would really appreciate it if you use my proper pronoun: "The problem." What an uncomfortable time... to be a straight white male. It's a tough time for my people. For once. You know? It's... you gotta know when to fold We stayed in the game too long, can't be doing that. Coming Rightfully so. It's just uncomfortable because to be a straight you're kind of guilty by Which is a shitty place to be Like I just turned 25. I just got here. You know what I mean? I'm a new white! Like, give me a chance... Give me a chance to You know what I mean? Like... I just want to sing along you know what I mean? Just give me a chance. It's not my fault. It's not like I made the a straight white male. I probably would have... Historically speaking, why you know what I mean? But I didn't get to choose, Therefore, I can't... I can't apologize for it. That'd be weird. And you don't have to. That's the thing. You don't Just be a decent Is that too much to ask? Listen to the sound music to my ears. I don't have to And I won't. I'll apologize for being when LeBron James apologizes Didn't choose this life... just happened to Right? And they both have their Like, sure, he can do 360 dunk, and I... can raise my voice to the police So it's. It's a give and take, Like, I'd love to yam but I guess I'll just get Gotta choose your Life ain't fair for everybody. Okay? Make white people I'm so happy to be I love L.A.. I love it because So I have perspective. I'm actually from Ohio. Yeah, that's right. That felt as welcoming If you've never been to You absolutely don't. Send an email. Okay. You do not have to go. It's so trash. Oh, my God. I'm not even from, like, I didn't get, like, Cleveland Nothing fun. I'm from the middle of nowhere, like hour west of Columbus, Country. "The Sticks," Population like 1500 people. Like the kind of small the gas station's, also You know what I mean? Fuck and some diesel. My hometown was so country, man. We used to have... We used to have Drive I swear to God. Do you guys remember Where like every day of the week would have a theme to it, like We would have one when like the rich and just fucking flex on us. John Deere style. And the women in my school would he's got land! Cuz that's all. people cared about where I was Like you didn't need eight like that was that was the biggest flex You compete with a farmer. If he's plowing land, straight up like there's just Nothing you could do. But it's the type of small life just kind of dissipates. You know what I mean, like, life timeline. Like, you, you. You go to high school, then you graduate maybe. And then you get a job, get then you die in this hometown, nothing to do for fun there. Everybody just drinks but not cool like we do it, you Theirs is because they're sad. So depressing, man. I didn't realize drugs were when I was living there. Apparently it's gotten worse. I found out about three who I went to school with he's like two grades We didn't know each But there was only like so we kind of know each other. Found out like three or four OD'd from heroin in this town at his job. The same job he got when He lived and died there. And obviously the whole and they mourned the and, no, guys, don't get weird, There was ... no, there's a The whole town, I swear to God, and they raised enough money a memorial bench at his favorite park, which I thought was a really sweet to provide other people seating to do their heroin. I've never done heroin, you want to sit down. Okay, whatever you Okay, I'm just giving that I could have but I'm not. I'm nothing like where I'm I'm good looking... I don't like it any more Okay, this is not Okay, and it's so My looks are so because you guys haven't so you have no context this shit just happened. Puberty hit me so I was ugly as shit for the I was so ugly for so long. If I would have they would have returned Like I was so ugly. No don't, "Oh..", okay... I spent the first building a personality for what? You think I need No, it's a fucking waste It's gotten me nowhere. And it's so weird because so much of your and then you're drastically something else overnight, it fucks with you emotionally like I still it's still so new quite grasp it. It doesn't- I don't Like I know I look like but I do identify So um, I think that does Trans handsome--trandsome. Yeah. We till we It's gonna be all mirrors. Bunch of pretty It's gonna be dope, and And it's so weird, man. It's such a drastic lifestyle people treat you so differently. Nobody likes attractive You assume their like there's no sympathy which is another thing you guys is I have clinical depression and you guys are just That's how fucked up it is, that I could come up here Basically being like: Help! And y'all are like: It's not funny. Awesome. Okay, it's so weird. There's no sympathy No one gives a fuck if you have high cheekbones. People act like I don't have I could be crying my and people are just like, wh-... what could you possibly I bet you're just swimming in Yeah, but you know what? I'm not swimming in? Believe it or not, someone I can't even hang myself because my jaw line will and I'm just on the ground. Handsome. Even if I did die, it's gotta People like God damn, he That's really nice. That's ... blue was his color. That is nice. There is no sympathy You guys are lucky. Count your blessings, uggos... Shit ain't sweet up Everybody's dealing with shit. I just want you Remember that. Next time you're in bed crying your eyes out Your friends are by your bedside Oh, my God. Are you okay? Is there anything we can do What's wrong? Just remember it means you're ugly. I don't make up the rules. Okay. I'm sorry if you were Get up bitch we're 3 milly rocks be No problem. But... rules are rules. It's weird because It's given me the not judging people I'm a big fan of that. That's why I like the masks. Love it. You don't know who's ugly It's kind of a fun Just walking through Does this bitch have a beak? You don't know what you got to get to know them Like you wouldn't be able to just assume I'm a You have no basis. I can walk into any Starbucks They would just think You know what I mean? I could be anybody. Could be anybody. I go in they're like: What's They're like: You And the code to your Man the masks made it so hard to Because you don't know looks like that shit You ever talk to You're like, I got to know. You've got to come cute, clever way to get them Say some dumb shit, like... Have you smiled today? I feel like you Would you give me And you've been and she's been all eyes and I guess I could give you a la la la la la la la la la ... d God! Damn it! Oh, my God. I talk to you for an hour, I gave you my time. I had no idea. But I like 'em. I'm a big fan based on how they look. Because if there's one thing every single person is that everybody's Right? Everybody in here that nobody else I go through shit all the time. You guys would have no clue. Like one thing you I have terrible luck. Bad random shit happens And I'll tell you an incredibly I need a moment. I'm just thirsty. Uhh... Last year I had to have surgery... on my nipples. They're fine now. You can stop looking. Last year I ended up developing Like this shit is so rare. It only happens to like 12-year- And somehow I'm My doctor looked me in my eyes. I was like, I don't know I was like: First of all, don't not give me It's not very professional. It was this freak condition that the breast tissue bench about 285, 8 to 10 reps... that's neither here nor there. It was causing the incongruently under my nipples. Now, before your fucking wild, let me shut Okay. Whatever image you're get it out of there. It wasn't anything If you had never before, you would never But you know your body, right? If something's off you notice it more than So it was it was messing Like, I wasn't I wasn't I wasn't comfortable My Instagram was suffering. I was like, if it starts You got to get it checked out. So I go to the doctor and he's like... Yeah, you got it. I'm like: up! And so, what do we do? He explains to me, that it's actually an meaning it'll You can't take medicine for it. You have to have it surgically I was like, alright man, what's the damage on And he explains to me that this nine racks out of pocket, mind you, because It's not life threatening. So insurance doesn't cover it. $9,000 in the middle which I don't know how much you but this is the first in like two years, man. I been performing in pickup money has not been good to me. I definitely didn't have $9,000 to drop on something Breast implants are $10,000. So if you think my life and I have no problems at and you think about the dilemma every night leading up to Am I about to drop $9,000 ultimately cosmetic how I feel about myself and whoever it is Or do I drop $10,000... get these titties and clean up at the Are you kidding me? If I go full transition, it I don't even run I'm placin' bronze guaranteed. Okay. I'm a decent looking dude, Straight up. Oh, I didn't need to I don't have a sponsorship. Somebody gonna buy this, and 60 grand. and Imma be like: I don't know. I got nothing. I'll let you suck one That was weird. Um... When I got this chin... I thought things I thought things would be easier I thought dating Maybe it's me. I'm. I'm very picky. I'm so hard to date. I have such a specific type. I predominantly only Just personal preference, like late thirties, Oh my god, such Audience member in the back: Well, not one's who This bitch is wooing from in the parking lot. I also don't know if It's got to be late thirties, Because women are kind of Like they're the best Fuck y'all. That's a solid Because if you fuck If you fuck with Cap'n very fine window if it tears your mouth up It's a very fine line. It's like 42, apparently. Who knew? Some of you are not laughing cause you sittin' there with That's snitch on yourself. If you want to We have a little brown Put your dash on it. That's how you holler. No verbal communication needed. I knew what that meant. Older women are so dope, man. Sometimes they got kids... which means they got snacks. I'm so easy, man. I'll fuck you for a Lunchable. That's a fact. I'm so easy. Are you kidding me? If you have a crock pot, to the best of my ability. I don't know. I don't know who you or what they were doing. But I don't want to because sex is hard. It is. Ladies, y'all have it so easy. Oh, never heard that before? I fully believe. I fully believe women have sex Audience member: Oh, okay... one ho in the back just like: It's crazy. It just does its own thing. Dudes... dudes come outta I think it's so true! It's so much less work. All you technically Mrh! You know They... that's all... That's your only responsibility is to be on time, because That's the only requirement. Do you realize... Do you realize as a man, like, there's a I have to get and I have to the entire time while I'm I'm focusing on me. I'm switching positions. It's a full court press. The entire time.. You focusing so sometimes you go quick. If you fuckers leave me I'm the only dude who's Y'all gonna disrespect Y'all ain't shit, man. Oh, oh. I'm the only person Hilarious, you guys. Y'all ain't shit, you know that? It happens--to the It doesn't always Be a big problem about it. Would you be mad if your at a restaurant? No. You'd be like the I got all this I don't cum fast. I just respect your schedule. Okay? I know you... I know you got to take your kids Sex is hard. The build up is fun, though... Like sexting... Sexting is the most fun. Oh, my God. Dudes love sexting. We're so good at it. Because we're just It's so easy. We lie so much. We of what we can't when we see you-- we ain't At all. We're like the J.K. like we just writin' of shit we are never going to We set the bar too high, like ... like... Girl when I see you imma... Imma put you up Imma fuck you in the curtains! like you ain't fucking You've been to my You want me to Not very practical. I lied recently that's how the game goes... I was sexting with I could see where but like- it was just like... I was sexting She was like... I'm only 103 pounds You could throw me around. I responded. As a dude. I was like, that's right! But on the inside I was like, That's... That's more than Fellas back me Get the fuck out. Oh, it's nothing? It's light work? Pick me How about fuck your lower back? How about that? I haven't done a deadlift now fuckin' you's Now I got to fuck you with one that Mexicans wear in Mexicans be in the got a whole back brace like, why you got jeans on? You said some people Well... it is what it is! I know. I talk a lotta shit but I'm the problem. Uhh I'm... I'm well aware ... I'm so picky! I have a lot of red That's why, like, the first because you're look- ... I feel like like you're looking And that's so tough because... there's a lot of I'll list a couple and feel free to tell me if I'm okay with some of these things. Red flag number one I don't fuck with girls It's ho shit. I feel like a lot of have been cheated on... not on land. That's what it feels... But I'm happy to It's because it's If you live in L.A. and you date a hot girl for this chick will come to you and there's just this guy, who wants to just take me and my eight hot girlfriends Are you out of Why?! Wha- stay dry! Why? Like ... no! People. Get fucked. On boats. Boats. Were built. For fuckin'. Since the beginning of boats B.O.A.T. It's been in front of It's always been an acronym. My girl not gettin' on no boats. no kayaks, no canoes. no, no, no paddle boats. You're not working up a I'm not dealing with it. That's why women Because it's a beautiful who cheats on her man with a scrub... while her boyfriend No. You say you like boats? Get out. Get out right now. You got big boat and I'm not fucking with it. So that's the big one. Umm... Red flag number two: I don't fuck with Ouija boards. Obviously this only And you know what? This shouldn't even be a but it's been weighing So I'll, I'll let y'all in. A couple of years ago, I was doing a show at a and I get off stage, and this gives me her number. This happens all the time. And ... kidding. She comes up to me, gives We go our separate The very next day she I want to come over. I'm like, Bet. Still got it. You know what I mean? So she comes over, I let her in, go sit on the couch, and And then my roommate is His door's open. You can't see into the But he hears all of this. So we sit on the couch I'm asking all the don't care about, but we don't want to So we ask silly questions like, a family or...? you know, those your real ears? You didn't get your ears done? that we don't really So we're talking And then she hits me with, Yeah, umm... Do you have a Ouija board? I'm like, I don't even have a headboard. Nah, don't. Don't got that on me. Sorry. And she goes, Well, can we go to Target and get one? I'm like, No, I've got Disney+ that's what we're doing. And she's not giving up. She was like, Well, I'm like, What in the are you trying to bring and ... I'm trying to hit? So I'm like, Yeah, sure. If you can find the to make a Ouija board go. Go ahead--Biggest This stranger who I just met She's opening every cabinet, every cupboard, every closet, I don't know if you guys of when a deer and it starts hittin' everything like it's never But she's going crazy. She finds a couple of She finds this little the centerpiece. And she's like, That's how hard she's working. She's out of breath. We don't have something I was like, Damn, ya know, I... guess we got to Why don't you just sit on down? And she goes, Hold on a second. So she gets up and she goes she opens the front door And my roommate comes And I'm like, I don't know! So he goes over and slams I laughed so hard, but again... There's a mission at hand. So I'm like, So I get up, I go open the door. It's been 4 seconds. I go, I open the door. There's nobody out there. She's gone. So I'm like, Hey! Ashley? I'm going to shut the door. And once it's shut, You gonna be I'm serious, Amanda! All right, so I go. I swing the door And straight out of a scary BAH! Stops it right before close on the frame, I And here comes this chick lugging in this giant I'm like, Where She goes, It was just No, it wasn't. No, it was not just out there. So she brings it in, she sets it on the coffee table, and we both sit on the couch. I don't know where I lift it up. It's from the TV box I four days prior. This chick brought garbage back into my home So, you know the She's fuckin crazy! I'm in. you know what I mean? I mean, I never smashed but she clearly brought So she's like, All right, I'm like, I guess! Yeah... So she draws it out. And before I continue, does anybody not know Audience member: Really? You really don't know? Oh, man. Okay, well, first of You're so naive... A Ouija board is... Essentially it's a toy board any store like Walmart It's, uhh... And people use it to drunk That's all it's good for, and It has the... the alphabet right here, close, center, That's where, um... the centerpiece is by a spirit to spell to answers that you ask it. So the middle is the alphabet, Left corner is &quot;Yes&quot; Alphabet left &quot;Yes&quot; &quot;No.&quot; &quot;Yes&quot; alphabet &quot;No&quot; So she draws and she's like, All right, You have to know when you're going to play with I was like, Yeah, duh. I mean, everybody knows that. But refresh me again. She was like, Rule number one, you never play with Okay, rule number two, you have to remember because apparently you So she's like, Okay. So got our hands on the piece and she's like, Alright Alright go ahead! okay, is there anybody here with us? And you just hear my roommate his name is Brandon and he fucking lives here. Touche he pays rent... which do you? ...no. So she's like, Alright, I'll Did anybody die here? Doesn't move. I'm like... This is crazy!... She's like, Uh, well then I'm like, Okay, umm... Should we go lay Oh!... Oh!... Oh! Well we don't want to piss She was like, You're right. So we go lay down cardboard in the room with her. She sets it at the like it's a golden retriever. Now we're under the covers We're doin' more makeshift conversation. You know, I'm uh- you got... dreams? Or... you know... what's your favorite just vague shit I And about like 4 or 5 She just knocks out, like, not a subtle, I'm starting Like, just straight. Yeah. And then, like, Zzzzzzz.... Like she is slumped. and now it's her asleep, and I'm staring down just and all I could think is this bitch didn't say goodbye! Now I'm terrified up by myself. I'm trying to wake her up. I'm like, Hey!... Hey... Allison? ... Hey! Great. She's asleep... Now I gotta play So I start jerking off straight out of an exorcism. And was like, And I was like, Oh God! And I swear to God, and hit her right in the face. It was the craziest thing... I've ever seen. Oh, God. I never saw her again. I never saw her. To this day, I'm not convinced Wouldn't surprise me. Uhhh.... That's why I can't mess I really can't. She was 25, 26, Makes me feel so much older. Dealing with somebody like that. I do feel older. I date older women. All my friends are older. I fucking hate kids so much. Kids... fuckin' suck, man. Oh, my God, they're so garbage. I don't like young We just don't click. I'm on none of the What's the what's the one app that literally No... Amber Alert? Every kid is on Amber Alert, It's like man ain't nobody How many followers you got? Enough for a search See, this is hilarious to me the hypocrisy radiating Like I'm the asshole. That's adorable. Okay. When's the last time you got an and your first reaction wasn't, How do I ... None of y'all are like, We gotta find these kids!! Not one person. Y'all haven't found a kid Okay, judge me? It's a terrible app. Is the worst app. It's vague... Like, Be on the look out for Is he in my Uber? Did I hit &quot;pool&quot;? The alarm's the They haven't changed the it's still the same Ehhh! Ehhh! Ehhh! I get so mad when that shit I could be standing next to the Is it in the settings? I go to general? Notification... I closed out of the Wayfair app. You guys remember that? You guys remember sellin' other stuff? for any of you guys who might the furniture company in 2020 was accused of allegedly being involved in we forgave them pretty quick. Didn't we? They're killing it. Their business is Supplied the chairs y'all So if you could, please give a for our sponsor, Bro, they came back hot! They were like, Our bad, ten... I was like, Are these the Like I just don't I don't trust you. It was bad, man. We found out as a people but not as much as we Am I right? Them umbrellas ain't cheap, man. I know it's not funny. It's not funny. And I do feel very bad for all Obviously, I feel But I especially feel bad for the dude who You know what I mean? How many times have you got And I- Now you got to get a crib, too? It's a lot of money It's messed up, man. Can't support 'em. Don't support Wayfair. They're terrible. Not as bad as IKEA, but fuck IKEA. You kidding me? They're way worse. IKEA needs to come with a kid just to help put Somebody gotta hold these Can I go home now? I don't know, man. That's a You sure you didn't There's always so many after an IKEA project, You look at a final I guess that's it. And then you find out step eight of 49 I guess we just don't It is what it is. We'll... we'll put Guys, relax. Still me. Remember, the dude who's been Still just a joke. This is why comedy is the most It's because this is the that I would have to reiterate That I'm just kidding. I don't mean this shit that Rappers don't have to do that. Rappers are literally like, I fucked yo bitch! and y'all are just like, They don't gotta be like, I'm just rapping, y'all. I wouldn't do nothing like that. I'm David. You know me. I wouldn't do nothing like that. So hypocritical, man. That's the one thing comedians Is freedom of speech. It's kind of like an unwritten You can joke about as long as it's funnier And rappers don't get It's not fair. Like if they admit to a crime, they did on beat, I don't think that's fair. Respect the artistry. I think if you can make a you're trying to beat, I think that's fair. I think that's fair. All spectrums of crime, too. Can you imagine Ted Bundy in court? And they're like And he's like, Well, It's a little song. I call, &quot;I Eat The Pussy Up&quot; Because he's a cannibal. Okay, that one was a tough sell. That's fine. I understand. See if we can get you a little bit more levelheaded. We can all kind of Gun control? Why not, right? Can't be worse than it is. This is way worse. If that one Buckle up. This is a lot harder Gun control is so I see both sides. I do understand. I understand the amendment. Everyone's right to have a gun. That makes sense to me, especially when it comes or providing for your family. That makes sense. But at the same time... Everybody? Every- Not everybody Right? That's crazy. You all know somebody this motherfucker should It's so easy to be When's the last time you held Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. People freak out every time. But no, don't! But would I? That shit has been I think it's so easy to be that I think a simple interim It just needs to be a little That's all I suggest. I think there's so many tiers to responsibility that you before you can have a gun. That's all I suggest. And I'm not even Simple shit, like... If you haven't had No gun. Okay, that is. That is way too much How you gonna pull a trigger Like, that takes discipline. And I need to see you Okay? Can you handle the power? Do you realize if something as If something as simple as having for getting a registered firearm what kind of impact that would School shootings would drop Have you ever seen pictures of They are so fucking ugly. You kind of get it a little bit There has never been a handsome that they were like, Ah! ... He was Like, never, once, never. No one has time to write That's science. Okay? It's too much detail. Look, I'm well aware that school shooting is a very but we're gonna try. And I feel like I owe the why would I joke about And the reason being is it's sort of my I try to make light luckily through humor, Every fucking day. Because what's the when you wake you check your phone, right? Probably get on Twitter, some sort of news, And doesn't it feel like there's There's so much negativity in that I can't imagine where I don't have negativity it just It makes me a miserable If I have an outlet through You be miserable, not me. Now, I respect that that's That's not how Like, I had a woman She stood up in the one time when other school shooting she was furious. She stood up and was like, about school shootings. And I was like, Why? She was like, Because what if What if you lost your kid in a Could you make jokes And I was like, Because it's like context, You know what I mean? It's a comedy show. Clearly, everything I'm Like, I'm not talking about especially because I don't Okay? So it's not something I have but it's something I had never So it did fuck me I had to take a step and as a comedian and if I lost my kid in a school shooting incident, could I ever make And the answer is, yeah, Okay. That is for sure how traumatic experience. Second of all, it's my kid Okay? There... there is no way I'm not like... He was never good Like, come on, man, The kids don't play It's easier targets. #bringbackhideandseek I like this topic It creates such between black people when it comes to the topic of it's usually us and black people love They love to be like, all the white kids shooting Shooting up the school is I hear that joke all the time. Shooting up the school It's funny. It's a good joke. Until you think about because if I know anything it's that... if white people are black people are going to be Somebody gotta be Wilt. Somebody gotta come in Some of you are laughing and some of you He's... he's right! They're gonna be faster. They're gonna be stronger. Aaand canceled. Awesome. Ohhh cancel culture. We got to chill out with the cancel culture stuff. We got to chill out. The spectrum is too broad. I don't have time to because you make such That it takes all away from the stuff we and actually should And it's so frustrating. Like just ... pick and stop digging old tweets and I think it's the most bitchmaid because I'm a big believer that as times change, people change. Not always. Obviously there's exceptions, there's so many examples of it in and of itself. You can look at someone like Malcolm X. Malcolm X spent ten years and larceny, got out, went on to That literally changed Maya Angelou used Audience member: went on to be- What the fuck is so What white motherfucker Laughing at what I read Oh, he laughed like he hit. Like, you know what I mean? God damn... She was a prostitute. She went on to an author, another civil changed the fucking world. Chance The Rapper... used to make good music. As times change, people change, Not always for the better. That's all I'm saying. And the reason I wanted it happened to me... Somebody who didn't and they dug up a bunch from when I was 15 years old as I mentioned, I was born and bumfuck nowhere Ohio, like, I couldn't have And anybody who or say some shit when that they shouldn't have done or don't regret ... is a liar. Okay, that's the you're supposed So you learn from them, You don't go on to make when you're a responsible adult, Yeah? So when I was 15 years old, I was going back with my best Now, Brendan and I have been Since four years old he's my And Brendan also So Brendan and I were going back and this is when the group chat, You were just saying because it was just y'all! You didn't think anybody was So we were going back just roasting each other, right? He would say something. I would say something. He would say something, And then he said some shit because when I was 15, I also had Ohio teeth. Like I had a big I had little gaps on the side. My teeth were fucked up. Then Brendan said you're the only person I without opening their mouth. And 15-year-old me was shook, I was like, God damn, that's, you know, that's a So the roast battle So I conceded and with a very famous at the time, from the So the conversation went, You're the only person I without opening their mouth. And I responded, Fuck ... mmm... That's that shit I don't like. Now, if you're familiar you would know I had in the song lyrics to my friend, This was ignorant, I wish I had never done it. And when this resurfaced people lost their White people lost They couldn't believe it. They thought I had with being racist They were like, WHAT?! You can't say that! You're not black! You're not in the Like they had thought I just and squeaked through the cracks. And black people that I knew who That was the biggest uproar They were like, He fucks it was instant outrage And this was such an because white people for other people. It's our favorite to be like, Ooooo! Oooo did you... Did you see??? They want you to be you weren't even White people are Are you not outraged!? I wasn't... Now I am. And again, this is a very tough white people have ruined every excuse in the book to get out of They ruined all of them. And fortunately I fit a massive cliche. If you or anybody watching were to take the slightest you wouldn't have You would see that all of my friends are black. All of them. There's one... There's others! All of them are black. I have one white friend His name is Vladislav and I don't know how much but they're the black people They're so dope ... So... to my naivete, I'm trying to state my case who don't know who I am or because from my perspective, What are you talking about? I'm not racist. If you look at the people who the people who mean more to me than my actual blood family, the people I love most and You would see Like what I did was but I didn't mean anything I would never in my fucking any hate or harm based That's outrageous to me. And the most frustrating thing and arguing with these there's still people who There's people right now, being like this is just trying to get out of And I understand that. But at the same time, I also don't have of a single fucking thing. I... I know who I am. I know I'm not racist. I know how many to Queen Latifah's Beauty Shop. Y'all seen it? That shit is a classic. They Ah... woo! So... this is when the conversation because the problem the issue started with I made when I was 15 years to white people now with my comfortability, like they were very They were saying They would be like, Oh, I bet you hang out so that you could justify For real? That's how you think racism Alright, bet. So if I hate gay people, I'm out just so I can be like, Eckh, Am I right? Up top! Oh my God, that's not how racism and discrimination works. I wouldn't put myself in that They got more and more ignorant. They're like, Oh, well, why do you hang out with so What do you want to ... be black Fuckin'... A little bit. A little bit. It is so much cooler some of the Okay. Every white person wishes Any white person who is a fucking liar or a cop. Okay? Do not believe Okay. But the silver lining of all of this is it made me like things that I had never because they were I actually thought about like I had never thought about why all of my friends are black. I had never thought about why black people or why I So I did a lot of and the conclusion nobody goes through more shit and still enjoys more than black people. Nobody. It's so impressive to me and it's such a beautiful because everybody's going But not everybody and still enjoy shit And I think it's an absolutely This is going to but I need you guys to take Do you have any idea what it takes to have built on your fucking back to this day still have to fight to be treated like a and still have time to write a better version of Have you all heard it? They got a Drake It's incredible. Step your shit up, You had such a head start. It's absolutely amazing At its simplest form, it just comes down to common The people who interests and opinion, those are the people you Those are your real friends. Those are your real family. The world should Oh, white people do this, If you tryin' to do something you're tryin' to do something that divides us, that And it doesn't even need It goes to all aspects of life. Comedy is like that. I'm supposed to come up here, That y'all have probably kind We make it funny. Now we have that But there's still that judgment. Until we have that bond, like every time I walk on stage, hmm-mmm, Absolutely not. I ain't got nothing in He got bangs. I'm not going to but as soon as I come up here that we can agree, like... Who in here like big titties?! All those dudes are like, Well, See what these titties Cuz we're not that Stop dividing people just because you're uneducated That's why you're uncomfortable. That's why you come And that's why to the cookout. I'll bring the potato salad! Nooo I'm just kidding. I'll... I'll bring chairs. It's okay. Thank you guys so much. My name is Matt Rife. Thank you so much you guys. You guys are fantastic. Get home safe, please.