Most Star Wars fans have some level lightsaber combat, the primary fighting styles knowing the fundamentals of a combat form, or The seven forms weren't just mechanical but complex combat philosophies. To understand the groundings. In this new series, we'll be doing Shii-Cho emerged during a time For millennia, the Jedi had used alchemically but somewhere between 10,000 and 8000 BBY, The first of these early lightsabers were unstable and served a purely ceremonial role. But as viable weapon, and before long they surpassed this transition, and this was evident in Much of Form I was adapted but overall it was much more deliberate and style were still uncertain about the potential and Shii-Cho was characterized by broad, sweeping The form was a prototype, and its simplicity meant Shii-Cho was largely relegated as a training form. and easy to grasp - though it was hard to master. and persistence, which was why it It was also known as the Way of the Sarlacc like a Sarlacc waiting for its meal. Originally, of early protosabers, with which Jedi needed defined Shii-Cho, though it could be hard to Shii-Cho was extremely deliberate. In its raw sweeping strokes, all at either all other moves within Form I were just and defense were essentially the same within Form lightsaber-to-lightsaber combat with raw Shii-Cho predated the existence of lightsaber-wielding Jedi younglings were paired up, with one student The latter would attack with Shii-Cho's basic while the former would block with perpendicular At random intervals, the overseeing masters would the direction and flow of the combat, but nothing Because of its limited set of moves, Shii-Cho continuous motion. Form I practitioners relentlessly forcing their opponents to The form's goal was not to overpower an opponent, control, greater willpower, and greater strength about lightsabers at all - it was a form of combat Shii-Cho was particularly useful for Its broad strokes fell short when fighting single turn the tide in a more uneven fight. It taught as its strokes were wide and usually overhand and Shii-Cho users forced their opponents into a where they couldn't flank the duelist. The their everyday lives as well as lightsaber faced the same way they would a group of thugs. practiced Form I only ended when the instructor Shii-Cho practitioners had to end Traditionally, Shii-Cho users ended their duels This maneuver was quite simple, and involved a precise slash or just bashing it out of their precise yet more heavy-handed variation Shii-Cho generally taught its users to avoid though this wasn't a hard rule. and parries of Form I, you might think that swordplay were all that defined Shii-Cho. But the Jedi Masters who first conceived of Shii-Cho and what they knew wasn't just traditional in the philosophy of the Light Side, and since it was patterned after a concept that any Jedi would To explain what we mean, let's from the Revenge of the Sith novelization. "This is Obi-Wan Kenobi in the light: He has already let the Force reach into him. The has stepped into a crystal-pure waterfall lost when he opens himself up to that sparkling out again without the slightest interference from himself Obi-Wan Kenobi is no more than a ripple, There are other parts of him here, as well; from the scuff mark on R2-D2's dome to from the spidering crack in one transparisteel starships that still battle beyond it. This was what use of the Light Side was like, scene suggested. This sense of the Force for defense and offense and why it emphasized creators and users became one with the Force in Furthermore, the very strokes and parries used When practiced by a true master of the form, appearing to an observer like flowing it was nigh-impossible to tell where This was possible because of Shii-Cho's broke combat down to simple, fluid motions, both Even though its moves were broad and repetitive, of variability. Since it was so simple, its users The bladework of Shii-Cho random but fluid, and unquestionably effective. a rejection of complicated maneuvers, a breaking structures were illusionary because the great in the Force everything was simple, the same basic Shii-Cho sought to ride the current of to embrace its most fundamental aspects and the Form I of the Jedi Masters, difficult to Now it's time to tackle the antithesis of Where Form I was simple and characterized by the most complex lightsaber styles, founded in a Makashi was the favored style of the and tonight we'll be exploring When we discussed Form I, we mentioned that really a thing, and as such could be unsuitable invented specifically for lightsaber duels. It the century-long war between the Jedi the future founders of the Sith Order. In those more specifically - were commonplace. At as there was no alternative, so Makashi Where Form I relied on broad sweeps, Form II was an extremely precise style meant It was fairly similar to traditional fencing, and careful footwork. It was an open challenge a display of cold, reasoned precision nigh-unhinged Dark Side perversion of Shii-Cho. The Dark Jedi claimed that their power came from put into lightsaber duels, but Makashi turned shatter their opponents' guards and strike them that the chaos of the Dark Side could never Makashi was also known as the Contention Form or referring to the famed Force-resistant lizards of bore the marks of an era when the Jedi didn't or overwhelmingly defensive combat; in the strike fast, and strike carefully. It was popular i.e. during wars, and tended to fade into the Hundred-Year Darkness, it lost popularity only to see slight resurgences during the various the peak of Makashi was the New Sith Wars, a various Sith factions. By the time of the The foundation of Makashi was footwork. Makashi both for offense and defense, moving forwards The purpose of this was to keep the user steady, their balance unless whatever they were standing and philosophically, was a major component Unlike Shii-Cho, Makashi treated defense and a similar method. A Makashi defense focused more in which a duelist would shunt the enemy's were a favorite of Makashi duelists. Makashi duelists would essentially catch it off to the side, redirecting the kinetic Of course, this was only so effective; Makashi strong opponents or Form V duelists, against Makashi was also generally unsuited for use foes, as its defensive principles were a However, Makashi was extremely Its users held their sabers tight but not from the hand. This was meant as a direct The Makashi offense was much more aggressive. angles, favoring jabs, feints, and precise strikes Form II was extremely fluid, emphasizing formularity of Shii-Cho. Makashi practitioners taking careful note of every shortcoming either figuratively or literally, for the kill. an opponent's limb with a wide slash or chop, For Makashi duelists, the or ways to maim or disarm an opponent to end which was also the preferred mark of contact though Makashi duelists usually preferred off their fingers, or just slice off their hand Shiak, on the other hand, was a quick, precise Both defensive and offensive Makashi were built balance, fluidity, and economy. All of the economical for the duelist, to conserve as much both Force-based and physical, was quickly of other forms, but Makashi's precision meant it even though Makashi was a very complex it had a simplicity to it, encouraging the If you know anything about Makashi, you know that he used even after he became a Sith Lord. Between a form that was an expression of the Light was a little Sithy, or at least Dark Side-adjacent like Shii-Cho, was firmly rooted in the philosophy Remember how we said that Makashi was about this as well. Form II required focus and precision Force, and usually it required them to be balanced of the videos where we harp on about this, meant Side. Now, obviously, Darksiders could use Makashi way that mirrored the Light Side's stoic calm and aggressive urges were counterproductive with Aggressive tactics, which Makashi duelists often aggression, just a focus on offense. And just rooted in the Light Side, so too was Makashi's was to allow the Force to flow through oneself, to Sometimes, the Force called for patience; at quickly and soundly. Makashi specialists analyzing and piercing the defense of their Their aggressive tactics were without aggression, Count Dooku, Sith Lord though he was, emphasized The guiding philosophy of Makashi, in layman's and energy with flashy moves or wild storms of and to do so simply, quickly, efficiently, and under pressure, one that accepted the desperate to it. Makashi was how the Light Side did battle - extinguish the uncontrolled fire of the Dark Side. That's 2 forms done, 5 more to go forms, favored by the likes of Obi-Wan Kenobi grounding philosophy are fairly simple but As with Shii-Cho and Makashi, Soresu was a product Makashi was the dominant form due to its After the war's end, however, the last of and Makashi fell out of style. While incredibly wasn't designed for anything else, poorly suited But a shift back to Form I wouldn't cut it pretty well, though its broad sweeps just Enter Soresu, or Form III, which essentially for crowd control and combined them with Form was the ultimate defensive form. In the hands became impregnable walls of energy that neither It wasn't without weaknesses, however, especially capabilities. For the Jedi's usual peacekeeping Yoda once told Luke Skywalker that "Jedi use the This principle was rarely adhered to by the old Jedi stretched the definitions of "defense" and as euphemisms for attack in some scenarios. This isn't too realistic when your job is to protect who were uncomfortable with how willing some of have been developed, in part, as a reaction to the the Hundred-Year Darkness, a counterweight Soresu was the dominant form among overtaking every other style whenever By the time of the Clone Wars, it was the especially Jedi Consulars. Form III served keeping them and their troops safe from Soresu was also known as the Resilience Form or quite different from its predecessor, Makashi. but to survive them. Its users didn't even try opting to outlast them instead. The efficiency usually conserve their energy for far longer their opponents out and make their move once practitioners would either move to quickly disarm Soresu involved constant motion of the blade, maintaining a flow somewhat Its goal was to leave as little of and it accomplished this by eschewing a reliance Soresu was less a set of moves, like Makashi or to combat, a form of constant defensive motion. especially when it conserved energy. Typically, to, and would often dodge bolts or strikes if however, could create such a perfect defensive fight without moving anything but their arms. "Kenobi met every one of [Dooku's] thrusts staying perfectly centered, never moving a millimeter more than necessary, flickering strikes and stabs swifter than More so than Forms I and IIs, That innate foresight the Force gave its users, in the next five seconds, was what made the Soresu could be imitated by non-Force used computers fused with his brain to think and styles of his enemies, allowing him to predict imitation. True Soresu required foresight Soresu wasn't limited to use by the Jedi. Darth as she was too much of a lightweight, physically forms. However, only the Jedi, who let the could unleash its true potential. "The electrodrivers powering Grievous's attack thrice in a single second; integrated by network of peripheral processors, each of the angle with different speeds and intensity, an and stabs of which every single one could After all, he had often walked unscathed defended only by the Force's direction of his only difficult, not impossible. His blade never truly fast but always just fast enough, with three or four or eight of the general's minimal shifts of weight and stance Philosophically speaking, Soresu, in the hands shutting down a fight. Soresu masters neutralize their opponents' attacks, that only ended when the attacker That was what defined the form - the refusal to answering aggression with aggression. To practice to be calm and unmoved by the turmoil of battle was essentially the embodiment of one of the It's notable that, unlike most other lightsaber Form III had an opening solute, which Obi-Wan lacked a means of ending a battle. This was not and often did borrow disarming maneuvers from was to give Jedi an opportunity to end battles but this approach worked often enough, Of all the lightsaber forms, Jedi-like. Form III taught that there only surviving it - and the more Unless you're Darth Zannah, of course, in simply use it as a defensive tool Up to now, our series on lightsaber We've talked about the basics of Shii-Cho, defensive Soresu, but today, we're going Form IV, or Ataru, is best known as who used it in combination with the Force to Jedi Order's most well-known master, Ataru had a In the same way Makashi was developed as a as an counter to Soresu. While Soresu focused capabilities, Ataru was overwhelmingly its aim was to overwhelm an opponent, It encouraged practitioners to fight as possible and quickly wear an opponent out. on the use of the Force, which allowed Jedi to It's not known when or why Form IV it doesn't seem to have been conceived in Like Makashi, it struggled against multiple but unlike Makashi, it wasn't specifically It's possible that Ataru was developed in which the Jedi came up against Sith who that's speculative and seems unlikely, as it would in a much shorter window than their predecessors. for use against opponents who fought like Sith The popularity of Ataru waxed and waned, but During some wars, it was popular among Jedi true during the Mandalorian Wars, in which the Mandalorian warriors. During other wars, however, that Ataru's aggression would lead its users to Jedi during the New Sith Wars for this same it became more popular again, and by the time of Padawans and young Jedi Knights, contrary to Ataru was known as the Aggression Form or seemed to mimic the furious, unpredictable In fact, one of Ataru's signature maneuvers was in which the practitioner would deliver a their opponent had a chance to respond. Ataru taking a sort of quantity-over-quality approach strike that hard, but they did strike As we mentioned earlier, Ataru was This was hardly something unique to Ataru; that form was also heavily reliant on the other forms in that its practitioners didn't or to center themselves - instead, they used The most obvious aspect of this was the but Form IV users drew on the Force in more subtle Force to make themselves faster, stronger, and physical limitations. For this reason, Ataru limitations than their peers, including Jedi who Ataru emphasized constant movement of the body. somersaults, and cartwheels, which, when combined practitioners extremely hard to pin down. These offense, intended to keep opponents off-balance, Ataru, while an aggressive style, was however, unlike other forms, it taught its opponents' weapons instead of parrying them. This users found themselves fighting in tight was easily outmaneuvered and struck down by Ataru's strength, relative to the While the older forms emphasized careful footwork practitioners to maintain constant motion, at its best against single opponents in open It was an effective form for lightsaber duels, of Makashi, it was much more effective As we mentioned when we discussed Makashi, the due to the light strikes inherent to was very effective against brute force, as its circles around strength-focused opponents while So, what were the philosophical fundamentals briefly discuss the form's most well known user Yoda always used Ataru to the fullest in combat. Even though he was normally a very stoic and done he fought with all the ferocity of a contrast that some folks have argued ruins his conflict with Yoda's usual peaceable ways. When we difference between aggressive combat and a state Ataru, for Yoda, was a last resort. He always pulled out his lightsaber when that ceased to if there was fighting to be done, he wanted a lot like Makashi in that regard; its aggressive user's aggression, but rather a way to quickly goal in a different way, however. While Makashi the strongest weapon they had in their arsenal - reliant on the Force, with practitioners using There was a bit of a danger in which required a sort of stoic calm, Ataru lended It was far more open to the Dark Side as its offensive focus and wild maneuvers with the uncontrolled passion of Darksiders. IV could potentially even lead them to the Dark and pour their anger and hate into their strikes. other forms, and the Dark Side was by no means So, that's our look at Ataru, form. Next week, we'll talk about Form V. But what do you think? How much pull off all those sick moves? Feel free to Form V, together with Form IV and Form III, was one of the most popular It was the favorite of many famous Jedi, Ahsoka The form had a reputation for being aggressive underpinnings of Form V are far more complex. Shien, the primary discipline of Form V, was before the Great Hyperspace War of 5000 BBY. notably in their more aggressive tactics. Shien was actually based on Soresu. While and philosophy of Soresu, Shien was the work of focus of Form III inefficient. To improve the its more aggressive tactics with the defensive In its most simplified form, the philosophy offense. It drew on many of the basics of Soresu, in the Force, maintaining constant momentum and used these principles to attack as well as offense and defense in tandem, encouraging deflect incoming blaster bolts and lightsaber Form V's Shien discipline was intended for battles Soresu. It was highly effective against multiple incoming blaster bolts almost as effectively as users to counterattack while simultaneously defense and waiting for the enemy to create an attacking while redirecting incoming fire to Djem So, the other discipline of Form V, which Shien wasn't really suited for. Djem So even more aggressive, requiring the user to pour Skilled Djem So practitioners could beat the mixing in heavy-handed attacks of their own. Even Djem So; practitioners of this form almost Form V was also known as the Perseverance Form or it in combat knew those names were well deserved. coming; surrender was the only guarantee of safety V generated usually made up for its only real the form popular with many younger Jedi. Some of the form, from the infamous Ulic Qel-Droma to the Shien was distinguished by its constant heavy-handed and amplified through the Force. held their sabers in a reverse grip to make these was rare and controversial in the Jedi Order. The reflect incoming blaster bolts. With the help their strikes to intercept multiple bolts with a attackers. Particularly skilled Shien users could coming its way, or they could deflect incoming Djem So was a bit of a different beast, and to do it justice we're going to turn "The first overhand chop of Skywalker's The second bent Dooku's wrist. The third flash the inside that his own lightsaber scorched his Skywalker came on, mechanically a destroyer droid with a lightsaber: Dooku backed away as fast as he dared; Dooku's breath went short and hard. He no but only to guide them slanting away; he could Djem So practitioners maintained a constant guard of any opponent within reach. It employed were much less broad and usually focused This focus often led Djem So practitioners but it also made them devastatingly its ability to completely dismantle the focus and its utilization of strength. One of the style pretty well - Falling Avalanche, in which the duelist raised their saber over their might. This was devastatingly powerful, but fairly Shien and Djem So were markedly different styles shared the same fundamental combat philosophy: was very similar to the philosophy of the Jedi defending the innocent was not enough; that true to seek it out and destroy it. Form V took It prioritized defeating or destroying attackers and practitioners of both Form V styles were their attackers could no longer cause harm. This but it could be dangerous, much In a video last year*, we talked about how often than Jedi of other sects in part because of blurring the lines between justice and revenge and and Form V could lead its users to a similar way especially Djem So, made it very easy to great restraint to avoid killing when it its users' anger - and as we all know, anger But with that said, Form V wasn't a Dark The use of strength or aggressive tactics but they could also work within the framework of guarantee of safety against the devastating power the whole purpose of the form. In completely encouraged them to give up sooner than, say, end to conflict more quickly and potentially more So, that's our look at Shien Niman This form, known as Niman, was best described incorporating elements of each as well as combat forms. This made it the least distinctive great strengths and great weaknesses. But at the style of lightsaber combat. In this video, Niman got its name from a swordfighting the bodyguards of the planet Kashi's ruling technique centered around the use of dual 24,500 years before the Battle of Yavin, the Niman of Dark Jedi schismatics led by the renunciate by the Jedi Order, but their use of Niman brought war with Xendor many Jedi began using Niman. For used Niman to deadly effect, with some continuing Force-enhanced swords used in Xendor's day. The incorporation into the sixth form of lightsaber This lightsaber form was likely developed shortly following which the Jedi switched from lightsabers. The switch to conventional lightsaber combat, opening the door to things Niman was designed to accommodate building on its Kashi origins to allow On top of classical Niman and newer lightsaber all of the prior lightsaber forms, except for the fast-paced action of Form IV, the defensive I, creating a form that was largely without designed to accommodate the use of dual blades and emphasized offensive uses of the Force in without interrupting the bladework. All told, Also known as the Way of the Rancor, the Niman had a much more relaxed focus on bladework movements of combat weren't what was important, This meant that Niman, in its most basic form, was making it ideal for Jedi who devoted a relatively Properly mastering Niman was much harder, though. the Clone Wars, estimated that it took form. To make the most of Niman, one had to without letting any of them feature Niman masters had to learn how to create a how to be quick and mobile without This balancing act was what made Form VI The use of multiple blades, a technique the and could be incorporated into any form; famed was a Makashi stylist, while Darth Maul However, Niman made Jar'Kai easy to master and was Niman masters also had to balance the various techniques, especially the use of the Force. Many We've already discussed how Form 3 relied impermeable defense, how Ataru practitioners and how Djem So encouraged the use of the Force lightsaber form that made active use of more While the other lightsaber forms to their detriment, Niman stylists knew that the lightsaber. Jedi practicing Form VI would use the while Sith practicing the form could breaking the rhythm of their bladework. Two common moves that, in true Form VI style, were telekinetically pulling opponents into the involved scoring a hit on an opponent and Earlier, we described Niman as a form without master of none. Many characters in-universe have one unique strength. It was a blank slate, this allowed its users to project their own reflecting the sensibilities and attitudes utilize their strengths to the fullest. What they By the time of the Clone Wars, Niman was quite Most of the Jedi who focused on Niman were diplomacy, and academic work to lightsaber combat. with such Jedi using their lightsabers mostly to the use of the Force. This style of Niman effective in situations where deescalation and a But Jedi Consulars weren't the only ones to use two of the galaxy's most notorious Sith Lords Niman could be anything. In lightsaber put on a stunning display of acrobatics and unyielding defense the next, rapidly Four thousand years after Revan, General Exar Kun, meanwhile, took Niman and power. Kun was one of the greatest Sith Lords and unrelenting in lightsaber combat. Through which served him well after he built himself One would think that Exar Kun's aggression would but Niman gave Kun an outlet for his making him nigh-invincible in the heat of combat. ever defeated him in lightsaber combat. Vodo Siosk-Baas, who had trained Kun, Niman was a mirror. For those Jedi who preferred truly gifted masters of the form, it amplified all was one of the most powerful lightsaber Of the seven forms of lightsaber combat, none The youngest of the classical forms, and for good reason. This form led its especially its Vaapad variant, a Form VII was also one of the most complex in other words, it's perfect for the finale of The original Form VII variant, Juyo, came about likely between 5000 and 4000 BBY. It was a an overwhelmingly aggressive and chaotic form. currents of the Force as they were churned up through them and guide their actions. This Jedi considered it the most difficult to master of Millennia after the creation of Juyo, Mace Windu, stylist Sora Bulq, formulated another Form VII vicious and extraordinarily agile predator more chaotic than Juyo and much more dangerous, bringing them close to the Dark Side. To "Vaapad is as aggressive and powerful as its immersion in Vaapad opens the gates that a Jedi must allow himself to enjoy the fight; he The rush of winning. Vaapad is a path that Because of this danger and the difficulty among the Jedi. During the Old Sith Wars, It became a bit more popular in the later New as the rush of Juyo drew many of the Jedi After the end of the New Sith Wars, taught only to a handful of students who were Vaapad, when it was developed, was mastered only Depa Billaba. Vaapad ended up being too much Billaba to the Dark Side during the Clone Wars, Sith Wars. This trend was apparent in Form VII Old Sith Wars-era master, the Jedi Historian Form VII was also known as the Ferocity the latter referring to a hound-like predator bore a vague resemblance to Shii-Cho, However, while Shii-Cho was rigid and simplistic, strikes and what Battlemaster Cin Drallig called Its erratic nature made it unpredictable lightsaber forms, Form VII wasn't just a set a mindset. This was more true for The Juyo variant of Form VII was a little more the flow of battle, from the Force in its wildest Juyo required the practitioner to open themself rooted in Light Side techniques, Juyo opened the In battle, combatants poured all sorts of and altered the "shape" of the Force in the frenzy of battle. While other lightsaber Vaapad was a bit more personal. It drew on the barely controlled passion and the thrill of the Code. It also drew on opponents' emotions, drawing Vaapad granted its users even more power and the cost of straying even closer to the Dark Side. While Juyo exploited how battle could warp the allowing the duelist to draw power from it. To "[Windu and Palpatine's] blades flashed and weaving nets of killing energy in exchanges so fast Anakin could not truly see them The Force itself roiled and boiling with power and lightspeed And it was darkening. Anakin could feel how the Force fed upon fury spray into the Force as though some poisonous There was no Jedi restraint here. Mace Windu was cutting loose." As Form VII came close to the Dark Side too often, first place. Vaapad in particular violated the actions. However, the Jedi allowed the Code and stepped close to the Dark Side, Juyo could be used as a Dark Side combat Darth Maul among them--but one couldn't on the Dark Side though Sora Bulq's Dark Side matching Windu's style. This is because, "Vaapad was a channel for darkness, and that the furious speed of the Sith Lord, drew the And let it fountain out again. He reflected the fury upon its source as He was not afraid. The darkness Neither did he have power over it. Vaapad made him an open channel, completed by the shadow. It [was] a state of mind: a channel for darkness. Power passed into If you're particularly attentive, you might have to the novelization's earlier description of using up to the Force, letting it flow through them from their conscious will, in contrast to the Force and impose their own will upon it. their opponents as they would the Light against them - all without allowing This was an extraordinarily difficult balance to of battle, as Vaapad required, they were often their opponents instead of redirecting it back at the style's co-creator, to the By drawing on an opponent's power in this In reality, he had lost what made the form so That wraps up our series on the If you've been watching from the start, Now that you're more familiar with the If you were a Jedi, which one would you use? Feel