This haptic feedback stuff is awesome let me tell you that this haptic feedback vibration patterns to interact with a user. upcoming project; only problem is that this way too expensive for any kind of project. the BOS1921, can be bought for around 4EUR which So of course I wanted to create But while doing research, I realized that that features I3C which is the successor are most likely familiar with because I2C is, I would say, pretty much a golden standard meaning its successor is a pretty big deal. functioning breakout board in order to investigate instead stick with I2C. This video is sponsored by Keysights HD3 14-bit ADC, lets you see waveforms like never of serial bus protocols, software applications oscilloscope that can be used for almost electronics. If that peaked your interest then now using the link below to find out even more. around an IC, then we should always check typical application schematic as But since I pretty much only wanted to copy the datasheet and was super happy to find the fitting utilized components with part numbers that So the next step was creating my own schematic Once that was done; I converted the schematic definitely took me a couple of hours. capacitors and the one coil as close as achieve that, I went with a 4 layer design. for routing my signals using quite a few vias and the corresponding pins by simply placing a via Not really hard to do; but it takes result which mine hopefully looks like. and then ripped open its package to finally get To find that out, I next spread solder paste And as you would assume, the next and all components very carefully on their reflow solder with my mini hot plate here. along with some terminals, I was pretty happy I firstly wanted to apply 5V Only problem now was that apparently As you can see, we got a way too big even more if I would not limit it. have a thermal camera around to see exactly it is this 100uF capacitor here. be honest because I thought this line just like with an electrolytic capacitor. stands for the positive pole, meaning all boards, they all powered up nicely. power and the SDA and SCL pin to the expensive to the output and used the given dev board you can hear works perfectly fine meaning we now that we can use for projects, awesome. should use I3C or I2C to talk to them To answer that I read through the 99 they very lovely explained the main So first off, there is timing meaning that while with I3C it is 12.5MHz. allows for a way higher data transfer rate. I3C departs from the open collector design of I2C. pulling your lines up to the supply And when the open collector stage to GND which represents our binary 0. up resistor value low in order to make the sharper which is pretty obvious to spot when we But then again smaller resistors also waste making them less efficient to use. I3C uses push and pull drivers which switch states while wasting very little power. looks pretty similar, starting with the target bit, register address and ultimately all the data. then I highly recommend checking out my But away, there is a small difference by using here because way more important is that I3C That means it gives out addresses to all targets a problem of I2C in which addresses were often you use more of them, there can be collisions. called Common Command Codes or CCC important commands like resetting the And the last two important changes of BOS1921 which is the Hot Join feature The first one is super easy to demonstrate As you can see here we get lots of data from If we would remove it and plug it we firstly have to reset the microcontroller transfer gets once again established. implies hot join the bus without having And the last feature of In-Band soon as you got sensors that obviously for the main controller to quickly catch And needless to say that can get quickly My breakout board for example also has such here triggers and thus pulls low as This interrupt immediately tells the thus turn my actuator into kind of a push button. this extra pin and quickly communicate And with that being said, these were the but it also makes this protocol You see everyone in my comment section says But I think with I3C that is not easily microcontrollers to make that communication happen However I actually got my hands on a suitable to figure things out and make it all work. sufficient for such a haptic driver because So only time will tell when and how I3C will now already a bit familiar with it. I hope you learned something new. subscribe and hit the notification bell.