- [Narrator] Fiery deserts of ashes. Volcanoes are symbols of - There are many ways in which volcanoes constitute a threat to life. - [Narrator] And yet in the 500 million men and women are (singing in foreign language) What irresistible force attracts them to these terrible giants of fire? - Across the course of human history volcanoes have given humanity far more than they've taken away. - [Narrator] For human an inexhaustible wealth of resources. - [Interpreter] Mmm, that's - [Narrator] Fertile sources of heat and energy. - If you live in a place where the soils are exceptionally fertile, you're going to stay in that place. - [Narrator] But the treasures Only armed with courage can we hope to conquer them. (hopeful music) In Tanzania the Ol Doinyo Lengai volcano towers above a unique lake, Lake Natron. Steeped in chemicals of volcanic origin, it's waters are unfit but they hide a quite different treasure. As they dry the shores of the lake revel large patches of salt. This salt is an invaluable resource for the regions inhabitants. During the six months of the dry season the Maasai women here daily to collect large slabs of the precious mineral. Among them is Anna. Armed with a simple machete stretches of lake shore in - [Interpreter] It's the and the light colored soil that tell you there's something salty inside. (machete clacks) (epic music) - [Narrator] Lengai lava is unique. Rich in sodium, it is from the volcanoes mouth and becomes white on contact with the air. - Ol Doinyo Lengai erupts materials that themselves are that eventually finds Lake Natron is an extraordinary lake, the water is alkaline, feels very soupy, and the lake develops a crust sodium-hydrogen carbonate. So from a distance Lake It's a bright white body of a particular mineral which is formed on top of this alkaline lake. - [Interpreter] I do this You cannot survive without working hard. You have to work hard, even if you cut your fingers and sweat a lot. We give the salt to our cows, we sell it, we use all its benefits. If someone has a stomachache mixed in a glass of water. We gather the salt, wait for it to dry and load up the mules to take in home. When it's market day, it's We sell salt for the money, not just for feeding our children, but also for things like buying goats, paying for our children's schooling, helping sick people to pay for for heating, and feeding so she doesn't go hungry. People live around volcanoes they give much more than the And often volcanoes erupt periodically and then for much of the So people can move away while the volcano is at its most dangerous, but after all the place where they live is their home. - We have forgotten what it is like to be a subsistence that wakes up every of feeding his or her family (tense music) - [Narrator] In Indonesia mineral treasure in its - So the lake is what Ijen is famous for and they have a lot of sulfur and chlorine and other constituents that give the lake its particular chemistry. The other thing that it's well known for is the mining of sulfur by The sulfur gases can react (rocks crack) (liquid gurgles) - [Narrator] At dawn, hundreds descend into the Here they are known as A source of both revenue and prestige. The manual extraction of sulfur Sarnu is a seasoned miner harshness of the work takes - [Interpreter] There is This one's a good one. - [Narrator] He has spent his whole life in this volcanic hell. - [Interpreter] I've worked here for 28 years without a helmet or gloves, I've never had a problem, I'm used to it. What's dangerous is the This one is not dangerous, the one from the lake is dangerous. Round shapes on the surface is a sign. The water starts to bubble and - Once they've collected the sulfur, they carry the phenomenal weight of it back up the steep path and then some way down and that combined effort I and carrying such heavy weights, it's very, very hard on the body. I've tried lifting up one of these crates, though I could barely lift the thing, so I don't know how they do it. - [Interpreter] I can carry up so if I do two trips a (grunting) (basket squeaking) - [Narrator] Sarnu's sulfur harvest earns him on average 80 euros per month, double the average income in the region. - [Interpreter] 52 kilos. - [Narrator] Sulfur is bought from the miner, then transformed. A key ingredient for sugar bleaching, cosmetics manufacturing It's one of the cornerstones To the southeast of Java that feeds the communities at its feet. (epic music) From atop its 2,329 meters, huge plumes of ashes, covering the region with a thick, gray coat. Yet it takes just a few to break down and feed the soils of all the precious minerals it contains. - Volcanoes can be very because they erupt material that releases nutrients, after a volcanic eruption and the volcanic ecosystem can be vibrant. - [Narrator] From a gray, arid desert the region is transformed constantly cultivated by its inhabitants. The rural village of less than three kilometers Atsoko, a young farmer of the fertility of the - [Interpreter] Here we one that is gray, almost white, and the land here, which is black. Every five years, sometimes Bromo brings us fertilizer. The land is renewed, otherwise It's so fertile here such as potatoes, sweet potatoes, leeks, peppers, corn, it suits all plants. (upbeat music) - [Interpreter] No soil in the world is more spontaneously The volcanic soil from the degradation, the decomposition of lava is the only one that is spontaneously quite fertile because lava contains that the plant needs to grow, and logically he exploits it. - [Interpreter] Daikon it's the world's biggest radish and it's found nowhere else. It weights around six kilos. - [Narrator] Located Sakurajima is one of the most Its explosive activity makes most dangerous in the But these daily eruptions, are a real blessing for - One of the most dramatic manifestations of the fertility of volcanic on the plains around with volcanic ash very frequently. People are able to grow radishes and it's just fascinating to think about what it is that is in the soil that allows these vegetables to grow in - Volcanic ash adds minerals into the soil which can increase crop Volcanic ash also adds in particles of different sizes to the soil and that can increase the productivity through improved drainage of the soils. (pleasant music) - [Interpreter] I've got as if they were my children. When I take care of them I tell them, &quot;Go ahead, If the daikon is big, I am very happy. If it is smaller, my I am not a volcano specialist, and its presence is like a my grandfather, my Yes, because the biggest grow at the foot of Sakurajima. (pensive music) - [Narrator] In 1999 the releasing an avalanche of incandescent ash that destroyed everything in its path. Overnight the inhabitants of the little village of Palitahua, located just a few lost their houses and their lands. But armed with boundless the community has returned to these volcanic ash-nourished lands and organized itself to The volcano has united from this ordeal to build - [Interpreter] This land is The whole community sows together. Then everyone profits from the sale. They all encouraged us to go on working and organized these community fields. The community is a group of human beings. We are several families in the village. - We have done quite a bit in Ecuador and what we found there is that over time the volcanic the farmers to change how they're farming. - And what's that's who live around the volcano in order to be able to the volcano and to mitigate People who live near in order to maintain their livelihood, in order to be able to stay - [Narrator] In the shadow of Tungurahua the region's inhabitants to revive the local economy. Every week the community sells its products at the Riobamba market. - [Interpreter] Every Saturday our family comes to the market to sell our products. This year we planted 80% of our land, and the soil is so productive, This represents almost 40 hectares, that is a very large farm. We produce beans, potatoes, corn, so that we can continue in the event of an eruption. Tungurahua has always Mother Tungurahua or Personally I believe it is our friend because thanks to him 200 of us in the community have come together, but for the volcano everyone We should be grateful to him. (driving music) - [Narrator] In Iceland the fertility of the Westman islands of an activity rarely encountered on such small volcanic The archipelago of the Westman Islands is composed of 14 islands that were raised from the sea by Each of the islands for the men in this region of the world where fertile lands are so rare. - In many parts of the about volcanoes and have involved the creation of new land, particularly of new islands and land of course in any To own land is really to have power, and it's not just the ownership of land, but it's also the productive An eruption of phenomenal of this unprecedented In 1973 a volcano appeared the only inhabited island Lava fountains and flows the island's little fishing village and the whole population was evacuated. But that disaster also A huge quantity of ash spread all over the archipelago, covering the Westman islands with this incredible volcanic fertilizer. Today these islands are covered an exceptional pasture for sheep. Each year Beanni takes his flocks in an extraordinary transhumance, - [Interpreter] I have lived in this archipelago and I They spend the winter here in We kept up the tradition. I think given the current situation that it's better here in the islands than it is in Southern Iceland. But to reach these green pastures requires a tailor-made - [Interpreter] We'll because the sea is bad in the east. (intense music) (shouting in foreign language) (sheep baas) (sheep baas) - [Narrator] On these volcanic islands with cliffs eaten away by The flock is hoisted onto to a height of more than 20 meters. (sheep baas) (peaceful music) For nearly three months these sheep will graze peacefully The exceptional grass gives their flesh a unique taste. (unsettling music) In Hawaii Mauna Loa is the Layer after layer the a colossus of basalt. For 10s of kilometers the island of Hawaii exhibits its windswept lava fields. Only a few ferns and shrubs can withstand these harsh conditions. Here life has taken root In the crevices of the has found refuge and a John Wilson protects his in the folds of Mauna Loa. - I came here because of A puka is a Hawaiian word and everyone knows that in high wind, so I said I will just put the farm down in there where it's protected from the wind. Then hopefully produce Well the hole was already here, but the rocks were and so we relocated the form terraces and then I and then we mixed it with all branches, leaves, cardboard, mixed it all together and spread it out in the bottom of the pooka. We're taking what might take or longer, we're getting - I think volcanoes hold a special place for communities who live around volcanoes because volcanoes are a seeable thing in the natural environment and often those mountainous a place of sanctuary, are - Many people say that and so why do people still live on them. I think the answer to that on them don't really consider or at least they consider that they could have is really worth the possible (relaxing music) - I think this volcano is but something I appreciate and I like. I wouldn't be here if it The volcano and what it over thousands or millions of years is what makes this area what I like. And I can look around in and I can see a tremendous number of aesthetically pleasing rock So the volcano for me is - Across the course of human history volcanoes have given they've taken away because they So you go to almost any volcanic area and the city nearby is the stone that builds the are from the volcano. - [Narrator] Thanks to volcanoes man has erected his finest monuments. In Auvergne lava stone made a fortune for these volcanic territories. The monuments of Auvergne seemed literally carved out of basalt. The St. Michel D'Aiguihe church stands proudly atop a volcanic chimney. And Cleremont-Ferrand proudly displays it's black cathedral built from Its dark color has earned the monument its nickname, the Colman's Cathedral. Thanks to the lava stone man building ever higher monuments. (water drips) But by digging in the basement he has also begotten a The city of Naples grew up one of the most active And though it regularly threatened Naples wouldn't be the Naples we know today without (singing in foreign language) Some 14,000 years ago covered the whole of of volcanic material, yellow tuff. This stone with unique from its basements to At 40 meters underground there's another Naples, a mirror image. Vincenzo Albertini is a geologist. For years he's been studying dug into the volcanic rock. Its first tunnels date back to antiquity. - [Interpreter] We entered here in the heart of the Greco-Roman Aqueduct. It's the single greatest hydraulic work carried out by the Romans Just think a tiny slope to travel kilometers and the city of Naples some We are in one of the 14,000 tanks. Imagine that above us is a building. From this building you had or a recipient of the period, of the Roman Empire that Just send down a container, haul it up to your home, as a result every building had its own tank. The stone here is the same everything that's missing here has been used to build up above. An inverted city, a Naples, 2/3 of which has an empty basement because to give shape to the buildings - Some volcanoes erupt material that is much less dense than basalt. It makes a fantastic building stone because it's light and strong, but it's also quite easy to carve out. So many locations in Naples are built out of these sorts of volcanic tuffs. Today other properties to the test in Naples underground network. It's ability to maintain a constant temperature and humidity. A boon that Neapolitans growing another symbol of the city, basil. - [Interpreter] Mmm, that's The tuff is a good thermal conductor so it allows for a good insulation with a temperature that remains in summer as in winter, between 14 and 16 degrees. This basil is grown in an absence of pollution of course (pleasant music) Naples has been lucky to So many volcanoes mean a lot of life, a lot of work, and a bright future. - [Narrator] Still in Italy which spreads its benefits In summer, Sicily is a hot, arid territory swept by dry winds from the Sahara. The island regularly suffers and yet around its volcano, Etna, vegetation and crops with a thick, green mantle. - Volcanoes create microclimates by changing the atmospheric and the presence of the volcano itself changes the wind patterns the volcano and that can locally change the meteorology as well. - It's a very high mountain creates its own climate. You often find that in the and then it envelops the summit, and you don't see the and of course all of that moisture starts to fall into the volcano and Lawrence Brinker is a volcanologist. Perched at more than he tirelessly travels to understand how it works. He sees Etna as a natural water tower. - [Interpreter] If the the volcano wasn't here, relatively flat, it was warm and dry. It would be very different which is extremely valuable because Sicily is normally a very dry place. So that's probably one of the reasons why there has been so much population around the volcano for so long. Especially in this sector where Because there's a lot of precipitation there's snow that will There are lots of storms, As we can see this rock is There are a lot of fractures so the water disappears into the mountain. There's no river, no stream, which acts as a sponge. It's a huge water table. - [Narrator] This water filtered by porous volcanic rocks flows into the valley in the form of an infinity of small springs. - The island of Sicily It gets very hot in the summer, but nonetheless the flanks of Mount Etna offer perfect arable land. That means that even in places that are typically barren and lack water the volcanoes themselves can actually be repositories of water. - If you're in a desertic region and trying to eek out a living, volcano is the natural place to live because the volcano attracts and you can collect some water. - [Narrator] For the Sicilians They call their volcano La Mama. Thanks to this beneficence force they grow oranges with And when the water there's another treasure trove. - When you have a volcano those volcanoes will often show what we call geothermal activity. So there might be vents of steam, pools of hot water, fractures releasing gases to the surface. - The geothermal energy that the crust contains water. And that water gets which is stored underneath the volcano. And we can exploit that geothermal energy. - [Narrator] In Japan the of Jigokudani take to combat the harsh winter. These thermal springs whose temperature can rise to 60 degrees are who dive in with delight as soon as the outside temperature But in this county that has of hot springs in the world, men also benefit from this volcanic heat. At the foot of Sakurajima expelled to the surface is the subject of many applications. Some of which are surprising. - [Interpreter] The have existed for 300 years. The sand here weighs and its temperature is kept between 50 and 60 degrees Celsius. Lying on your back is naturally The amount of blood sent from the heart, known as cardiac output the hot, wet sand because their Sand baths help the circulation. They also have a detoxifying effect which is fact very fashionable nowadays. - People have used for millennia to do all sorts of things, huge belief systems around it and really special sites, People use the geothermal energy directly. They use hot water from the They may use that for they might use that for cooking as well. Geothermal energy is one of the benefits of living near a volcano. (intense music) - [Narrator] On the highlands of Iceland a real kingdom of volcanoes. Men have long since learned to exploit the heat from the depths. A chef has taken advantage of the intense volcanic By channeling the vapors that he has developed a very local cooking technique, volcanic cuisine. - We are using this And we have learned to and carrot, and carrot and also we are making nice bread, and over here we are Yeah. So if you try this carrot - Really? - Oh my God. - [Interpreter] The way It came to me in a dream. I awoke at four a.m. and and how I had to put I went out and started building &quot;You've totally lost the plot, &quot;take a pill and come back to bed.&quot; - So we are making lamb goulash. - [Narrator] In this unusual kitchen everything now uses geothermal energy. - [Interpreter] We have in the pan here and we have So it is really very hot. That helps us cook with all these pans. This oven used to be a 34 kilowatt electric oven that used a lot of energy. The meter could be used as a We changed the connections, removed all the electrical equipment, installed an old plumbing tab, put a pipe inside and made a spiral. Now it works wonderfully well. - Bon appetit. (laughs) - [Interpreter] We can say that connects us with nature, with the wild. It's like living with danger in a way, being aware of it and respecting it. This allows us to use the energy that comes from the bowels of the Earth. - [Narrator] Beyond local use the heat from volcanoes One of the major challenges is that of energy transition. - If we're only able to capture even a small amount of heat energy and convert it into useful energy, energy we can use then it - Increasingly as the planet energy sources geothermal will become a really important one, but increasingly in very particular places for power generation, for electricity. - [Narrator] The huge draws from the depths the geothermic heat produced by the volcanoes. Wairakei is the largest An area of 25 square kilometers. It is located in the Taupo Volcanic Zone, and fed by the volcanoes magma chamber. Greg Bignall is a geologist. He puts his knowledge at the service of this new energy revolution. - The largest of those geothermal systems is the Wairakei geothermal fields. That generates about 157 megawatts, so that's comparable to 160,000 homes of electricity being generated. Geothermal energy is a The process starts many with rain falling on the of the Taupo Volcanic Zone. That water slowly via cracks and fissures in the rock to reach some depth within where magma sits near-surface - [Narrator] Right now New supplies around 20% of its electricity. But that figure is constantly growing. Volcanoes are now an asset in one of the greatest challenges And can offer a new energy - Geothermal energy is because it's clean, it doesn't and certainly on a geological the heat is always coming up. - Geothermal activity is of renewable sources of I would love to see it used It's fairly easy, it's and it's there, it's free. Men have found refuge in Far from their destructive image these living mountains are veritable oases inexhaustible sources of wealth. - They give more than they take away, but also there's something it has an identity, and I So these are the most and I think if I was gonna I'd probably go and live on a volcano.