(upbeat music) - I'm all for social distancing so we can protect each other, but it can be hard to stay So, creating some sort has been very, very necessary. (upbeat music) I think it's time to, get a little up and then I might need a little I know what you're thinking, why I do I have a bed like that? Honestly I think the question is why not? Good morning Elle, it and, I am super excited however weird this whole situation is I am currently filming this by myself, which I think is hilarious, we're in this together, Well guess what? Let's do it. Oh, are you excited? I'm excited. Here is kind of where next to the grill because nothing motivates you Okay guys, you ready Yeah, yeah, yeah. First things first, I'm gonna put my heart there is an app and you if you put this little bad boy on, you know, let's start and 20 calf raises and Wow, I feel like I'm teaching Okay, what my trainer is the EMOMs, which stands for So there's two sets of exercises, you try to complete both of so if you have time to rest, you can rest but every time the minute starts, you have to get started again. These are supposed to be like a warm-ups, but like, arms really are burning. Do that for five minutes, it's fantastic, and now we're going to do another one, we're gonna do eight (upbeat music) - Hi, what's up? Glasses falling. Okay, having some form has been incredibly helpful and just making me feel good. It's created a new sort of discipline, but there are some days where I'm like, I am gonna just stay in bed all day and no one will stop me, dammit. (upbeat music) Okay I've officially finished showering, you can now come in and I usually put my hair in but I'm currently rationing paper towels, so, not gonna do that, but I will definitely just the way I spin the bun, it dries in a really pretty way. Doesn't look necessarily great right now, but it's going to dry pretty, I promise. (upbeat music) I have to say with staying at home a lot, I have usually been wearing some days I wanna treat myself and feel like it's gonna be so I put my contacts on. I'm not gonna show you cause some people get (upbeat music) Okay, now I can see, and it maybe I have, maybe I have. Next thing, I usually just So I'll just use some good old Vaseline. I need as much kind of I do have combo skin, so I but also I just have super dry sinuses, so as you can see here, I have it's not a sippy cup bottle, I typically tried to once a day, maybe twice Again, not gonna show you guys that, cause I want to give you guys a break. I'm not gonna lie, I am pretty lazy, but, I also don't love using a lot of products for using straightener or but I just feel like it's and also again, lil' lazy. So now I'm going to flip it the other way that I'm not used to. So it's gonna be a much more terrible bun. Okay, actually I did a First things first, I and I've done 5 billion things already, but for skin, I washed I used First Aid Beauty Face Cleanser, absolutely lovely on my skin, and so I use a few other things now to kind of keep it hydrated. So I'll do a little spray, on (upbeat music) prep, set, refresh. Oh man, do I feel refreshed? Then, I'm gonna put on Retinol Eye Cream. Okay, so I also do this thing for my products, everyone in my life, my mother has always resented me for it, because just boxes build up. Coz I feel like, I can and it feels nicer to me. I don't know guys, does (upbeat music) I also put it around here, just Hello, I'm gonna keep (upbeat music) Hi, next thing I am gonna Coconut Skin Smoothie Priming Moisturizer. It's from again, First Aid Beauty. So I can kind of put makeup on afterwards, coz it's a primer or I can just I think I might just leave cuz, I don't want to put makeup on. (upbeat music) Boom, I shaved my legs really, really proud of myself for that, I'm gonna do big things today guys. I use this lovely Palmer's makes my legs and my body I've also been washing my hands a bunch, I wash my hands a lot anyway, coz I'm a bit of a freak about that, but, given the circumstances and my hands have been drying out, so I've been using another wonderful First Aid Beauty Product. It's the Ultra Repair Cream, yes. Absolute goodness, so I put that on my neck as well, Cause I have this weird line on my neck, I think it might be because and down a lot. Moisturize, is the key of life, I also listen to music typically so I'll have some Lizzo, loving the new album, but sometimes it goes to like Jeff Buckley and a little Joni Mitchell, I have this whole that my lovely makeup artist gave me, and she gave me a little diffuser, which is super calming and super lovely, I think just introducing in this time of hyper is, very needed and I Okay also, I'm just looking I kind go back and forth with eyebrows, sometimes I fill them sometimes I put little, lotion situation to kind of keep them This one is so nice and this one is just the but I still love you. That's my morning beauty routine. I keep saying morning routine, but I still have so much more show you. (upbeat music) Okay, I promise you I I am going to get dressed, but I am just a little bit hungry, so I'll make myself a protein shake. Gonna get some good old So, first I'm gonna put some milk in, (upbeat music) I'm gonna make this for two people, So it's gonna seem like a I'm so excited. (upbeat music) Just gonna really put that I'm kind of like, the more the better, barely can taste it and it's just super good for you. I'ma put ice in here, to make this protein It's just super easy to make, I try to have, a bit of, greens in my diet as much as I possibly can everyday looks like, kind of two to three handfuls, so this is nice because it kind (blender blades whirring) I'm so excited to drink this. (upbeat music) Who's gonna get the smaller one? I don't know, wouldn't you like to know? (upbeat music) As you can see, I have a lot of heels, I won't be wearing those, I'll probably stick with my I, literally been re-wearing clothes because I'm like, let's just conserve. It comes a certain point where I'm like I've worn this for a week, but, you know, you can still look cute and comfortable, fun fact, got this on Austin and Ally, it was actually a gift It has Ally on the back. Okay, finally getting dressed for the day, See you in a second. (Laura snapping fingers) Look at that, I'm now changed. The magic of editing, also I think my hair might let's see how crazy you've got it, or if it looks pretty or maybe It doesn't look too bad, hey, how are you doing? (upbeat music) I'm gonna get started on work pretty soon, and I'll show you that but before I do that, I My favorite tea is Throat Coat. It is so wonderful, I I started taking it when and, taking it sounds I don't know, putting it in tea, I didn't really like the taste and everyone else loved the taste and I was like, what am I missing? And now I love the taste, I'm not sure if I just got used to it, I don't know what the situation and it makes such a huge So, definitely gonna have and we're definitely gonna do some honey. I think I'm going to use my favorite mug. I am such a nerd, my positivitea, and it's a little cup I love it so much coz it's really, it's really just me, to a tea. Pointing, I've never I, don't love caffeine, I have which is a good thing. I also do love Throat Coat because they have Throat Coat quotes, (upbeat music) &quot;Bring me the sunset in And again, it just makes you makes you feel just, huh, I can do today. I think that's what my whole doing things that make me Okay, here we go, yes get some honey, I don't always lounge and stir my tea, but when I do, I look like this, okay, hold I also love keeping my teabag in. I keep it in forever, I I shall deal with you later, okay. Let's get to work, you got this. (soft piano music) I, have been playing piano I'm always trying to So I have been playing that and I've been trying to and really working on that and keeps me like, Oh okay, I've done this amount of then I kind of go into a I've really been working on than necessarily any acting thing. Obviously for the time being, you can't really do more what I love about music is that, it really can there's obviously still things that aren't completely up to you, but in terms of creating, you really can just turn I've kind of created this It's a little bit messy, but, I guess my creative my wonderful boyfriend is a very talented writer and producer, so he's been working here we've been working here together, so that's been really cool. I feel like this is the and, yet I haven't been and I know that's because, I'm anxious or not as motivated as I wanna be, so having kind of little at least what I know, what I wanna get through sometimes breaks the barrier of creating I will sometimes spend a whole working on a cover, sometimes I'm working my own music. Elle, thank you so much for this has been absolutely lovely, I hope you enjoyed it, if you don't mind, I'm gonna be playing some piano, working on, some situations over here, but have the best rest of your day. (piano music)