(ambient music) (radio hissing) (radio static crackling) - Hi, this is [UNINTELLIGIBLE]. Please leave a message at the tone. Thanks for calling. (beeping) - [Woman] Where are you? I've been trying to Five fucking days and nothing. Where are my kids, Frank? Where are my fucking kids? (beeps) (waves crashing) (waves lapping) - [Nexpo] It's a summer day and you're out for an ocean swim. (water lapping) You take a breath, you head under. It's beautiful at first. You're in a whole new world. You keep going and going, and going. As you come up for air, you notice the people as nature's ambience has overtaken them. You just need one more look, though, and alas, you take one more plunge. But it seems that you may have As your eyes draw into focus, you realize that there's No floor, no fish, no walls. All there is is a void of darkness, a cold endless abyss gazing back at you. There is nothing there but yourself, the water, and the vast unknown. (ominous music) (water burbling) You know, it's funny, I've been trying to figure out for years how to put into words the from something as conceptually The immeasurable expanse that remains one of the It is painfully unsettling that our current knowledge rivaling that of the moon, and even the planet Mars. Upon looking at the raw data, knowing that over 80% remains unmapped and drives home the gut-wrenching realization that we truly know next to nothing about what's actually down there. We know more about the surface of a planet we have never set foot on than we do about the ocean engulfing the vast majority of the planet on which we live in. And to me, that implication is horrifying. It's called the deep blue for a reason because it is incomprehensibly so. And just over 36,000 feet straight down, you can fit the entirety of Mount Everest with over 7,000 feet to spare. You could theoretically launch a jumbo jet off the bottom of the and hardly make it to surface level at its cruising altitude. And if you stacked the Empire you would need over 24 of to reach surface level Thalassophobia is a concept that encompasses the fear of the ocean, yet what it actually entails might mean something than it does to me. Some may fear the ocean's gargantuan, seemingly endless size. Or fear nature's unforgiving wrath. (waves crashing) Or fear becoming stuck within it. Or fear things that don't Or fear what we found. Or rather, fear what we haven't. (ominous music) Much of what we think of are visuals that we can Reference points like coral reefs, the sea floor, and even sea creatures that help us paint a mental In reality, though, once you and veer over the continental shelf separating our world from theirs, what's actually out there and a macrocosm that we All across the internet, of video demonstrating the It's hard to put exactly into words, but viewing footage of treading the fringe of by venturing out and completely nothing will There is an entire world below them, a world shrouded in darkness, a world ripe for discovery, a world with caves, valleys, entire underwater oceans all just waiting there until the end of time. (foreboding music) Since I was a child, thalassophobia has unknowingly Jolly Roger Bay and its as we explore a manmade Pinnacle Rock and its cavernous gorge, infested with creatures unknown. And &quot;Tomb Raider&quot; with its multitude of claustrophobic underwater caverns disorienting us at every turn. It's funny because paradoxically, I have always felt that the soundtracks to which oddly always from having to endure Perhaps it was the fact that in these games we are almost lest we drown to death Or the fact that enemies Or maybe it's the lack of visibility, the darkness that depriving us of any ability to prepare for an impending threat. Or could it be the creatures, the monsters who call this (ominous music) (foreboding music) In early 2022, a video game released encompassing every fear regarding the ocean. It's called &quot;Iron Lung&quot; and through my fellow creators and Jacob Geller. The game puts us into trapped in a world far removed from ours. At the game's beginning, we're told that out of nowhere every single habitable in a cataclysmic event known With this, the future of humankind was left dangling by a thread as only those aboard For years, the remaining survivors to jumpstart humanity navigating the vast frontier, in search of any sliver of hope that a habitable planet remains out there. Guided by nothing but dying starlight, mankind is confined to the left to salvage the scant resources left behind on a But on just a handful of them, Oceans of blood that might be the key to unlocking the resources we so desperately need to survive. You and I are tasked with that was not designed for extreme depth. Navigating an ocean from anything we have ever seen or known, left to search for and that may not even be down there. To add insult to injury, the submarine will be welded shut and the window reinforced A rolling method of navigation, a map, a rudimentary control system, a single camera, and our own intuition guided by whatever sounds For all we know, we may not survive. But inside the Iron Lung, at least we won't know what killed us. - [Man] Beginning your descent. (foreboding music) Cruising depth in roughly (foreboding music) Um, I'm seeing some voltage irregularities in the instrument so keep an eye out for sparks or flames or anything like that. (foreboding music) Approaching maximum depth. The hull is feeling it bit (foreboding music) Closing, porthole shielding. (porthole rattling) (foreboding music) (water spattering) We're starting to lose radio signal. You'll be at cruising depth soon so and be careful. You're on your own. Good. (foreboding music) - [Narrator] From the very beginning, we know this will not be simple. The Iron Lung flexes and creaks, seemingly reaching its limit under the crippling weight of the ocean. The radio cuts out severing and letters penned by previous convicts warn us of an impending fate. For the entire game, we're adjusting our rotation as we blindly navigate in hopes of taking pictures Interestingly, the Iron Lung is equipped with a proximity sensor to warn us when we come too close to an obstacle. And at first, it seems like a no-brainer. The ship is already so any physical contact couldn't spell the end of us altogether. As we make our way to each checkpoint, we're able to utilize to view the outside world and with intervals of we're left with nothing but grainy, black and white visuals that are more often than A corpse of a foreign giant. Unknown structures with Legs from what appear to be giant spiders. And objects that bare (ominous music) (pulsing tense music) The horror of Iron Lung comes interwoven within the very fabric of how it's played. We are confined to an iron cell, left with none other than the dread stemming from our own biases, as our minds fill the blanks these cranny images leave for us. And on top of this, as we traverse this underwater helm. (beeping) (ominous music) That proximity sensor sure goes wild even when we're certain anywhere around us. Whatever is out there is lurking, analyzing us for just the right moment. We cannot see them, we cannot prepare, and we have no idea what it is around us. In a way, it's sort of poetic because it resembles the real world. Blood oceans upon vast alien moons aren't too far off from and I think that's what makes Anytime we enter the ocean we enter a habitat not made for us. We can't breathe, we can't hear, we can't see. (foreboding music) But they can. Tonight I won't spoil the ending so if you haven't yet please do because it'll The story is engaging The atmosphere is unmatched and the ending has a catch, and will stick with you for a while. In my opinion, &quot;Iron Lung&quot; modern examples of thalassophobia portrayed through video games, and as an avid fan of &quot;Subnautica,&quot; that's sure saying something. (suspenseful music) (foreboding music) Hidden inside the second part of the horror world exists the story &quot;The Thing That Drifted Ashore.&quot; It involves the tale that washes up on the It's a creature completely alien. It's gargantuan, slimy, it's disgusting. On its face are massive cysts and tumors with small appendages emerging from them. And worst of all, it smells because it's rotting. (flies buzzing) Nevertheless, it draws all eager to examine and (crowd chattering) Among the crowd, we encounter a young boy with an acute fear of the ocean. All his life, he's had nightmares of floating in the deep sea surrounded by hordes of While out there, he She explains that seven years prior she had lost her fiance No trace of him was ever found. However, ever since, she's been afflicted with ocean nightmares highly similar to the boy's. As she's telling her story, though, (foreboding music) the onlookers notice something. (crowd chattering) The creature's skin has transparent spots and on the inside are humans, entirely intact. (crowd chattering) They cut the creature open. (crackling) (humming loudly) (ominous music) The people are still alive and it's realized that one the one who went missing years ago. Shortly after, the bile-covered crawling in all sorts of directions like inhuman monsters. As it turns out, they were trapped inside living off it like parasites as it traversed the And the dreams they had of the ocean giants were in actuality, what those inside of it were seeing all those years. Because of their confinement, every person recovered that day was officially declared insane and the story ends pondering on what else might be out there. (foreboding music) &quot;The Thing That Drifted Ashore&quot; is special because its horror is twofold. On one hand, we have an ocean monster that lives off shipwrecked human beings. Yet on the other, we have the visual of what they saw all confined down there. Grotesque, giant fish with beasts capable of devouring And creatures beyond our The ocean is uniquely fascinating because it's the one medium on earth in which fact can meet fantasy. Ocean monsters can be with hardly a way to disprove and the potential of what could be overpowers our collective psyche as that curiosity may never be satiated. It seems that, until the end of time, legendary ocean monsters like the Kraken, the Hydra, and the Leviathan will always fascinate us given our sheer inability to explore the habitat in which they live. Tales of the high seas, of tragedy by the hands will persist evermore fueling fans and fears of the ocean for generations to come. &quot;The Thing That Drifted Ashore&quot; nails this mystique in yet it plays on concepts Deep sea giants are not fiction and the condition of abyssal gigantism is in actuality, the (projector clicks) (film reel rattles) (foreboding music) Around 3,000 feet deep, dark, and full of creatures inexplicable. In lieu of the octopi, dolphins, and vibrant ecosystems we instead find species bearing foreboding teeth, and riddled with a curious affliction. Colossal size. (foreboding music) (film reel rattling) (metal clinking) (foreboding music) When we look at these photos, it's difficult to The colossal squid alone until you're given a visual comparison respective to a human. The oarfish appears like a minuscule eel, until you realize they can Deep sea gigantism has created Japanese spider crabs deep sea isopods growing Sea spiders up to nearly two feet long. Anglerfish the size of humans. The bigfin squid with tentacles extending upwards of 26 feet long. And even creatures like the siphonophore, a floating amalgamation chaining themselves together (foreboding music) For over 90% of the ocean, sunlight is not able to penetrate fostering an environment needs to adapt to survive. A region known as the abyssal plain makes up 70% of the entire However, because of the lack of sunlight, plants and vegetation simply This in a way, presents as the bottom of the food chain typically relies on flora for satiation. And so, this is where a phenomenon known as marine snow comes into play. Made up of decomposed organisms from above on top of fecal matter, sand, and the remains of fish, most of the known deep ocean fauna rely on it as their main source of food. With this in mind, it for creatures to evolve by shrinking as not only are they compressed but are also left devoid of solid meals. As we've seen though, reality is quite the opposite. (foreboding music) Kleiber's Law states that the the more efficient its This notion results in colossal highly efficient sea life lurking within the ocean's darkest depths, waiting, and grazing for their next meal. (foreboding music) I would be remiss, that these are mere postulations, as the phenomenon of abyssal gigantism is still being studied. Because of the historical impossibility of exploring the deep ocean, much of how sea life survives down there is entirely unknown. Alongside this, it's believed that over have not even been discovered compounding with the already that the vast majority of the deep blue remains completely unseen by human eyes. Up to this point, everything has fallen within the mere (foreboding music) Now imagine what we haven't. (foreboding music) (film reel rattling) (projector clicks) (crackling) (water burbling) (foreboding music) It goes without saying that yet that hasn't slowed The allure of underwater and ocean cliff sides both riveting and spiritually fulfilling. However, it's unfortunately fairly common for deep sea dives to go awry. (somber music) On the 28th of April, 2000, 22-year-old Yuri Lipski within the Blue Hole in Egypt. Known as one of the most dangerous diving locations in the world, traversing this environment One of its standout features a massive 170-foot tunnel resting and extending 85 feet in length. It's been reported that appearing to be much shorter than it is when you manage to get down there. Alongside this, it bears areas making for a physically When inside, depth and Yet Lipski, fully aware with such an intensive dive maintained optimism in (video recorder clacking) (video recorder hissing) (water burbling) At 5:03 p.m., Lipski Contrary to standard procedure, he attempts this dive not in a group, but alone. For the first two minutes, we can observe Yuri until he is over the deepest He then begins a slow, controlled descent before he begins or buoyancy compensation device, in hopes of sinking faster. (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (water burbling) (inhales deeply) At this point, his regulator to supply Yuri with the he's taking in, evident by the numerous wheezes we hear throughout this footage. By now, he's descending rapidly, likely more so than he realizes. And soon after, the alarm signaling that his depth is (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (water burbling) (wheezes) (inhales deeply) (alarm beeping) (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (water burbling) (wheezes) (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (water burbling) (wheezing) (water burbling) (inhales deeply) (film reel clicks) Yuri is now over 270 feet below surface signaling a multitude The oxygen in his tank is His buoyancy is dwindling. And an effect known as nitrogen instilling a sensation (water burbling) (wheezes) (alarm beeps) (inhales deeply) At 5:09 p.m., Yuri approaches at over 300 feet deep. Immediately he fully inflates his BCD in hopes of returning to the surface. However, it's entirely ineffective as the down force of the ocean negates any semblance of buoyancy. This realization appears because his tank is now empty. He's disoriented. Yuri Lipski is trapped. (rattling) (inhales deeply) (rattling) (inhales deeply) (rattling) (inhales deeply) (rattling) (inhales deeply) (rattling) (alarm beeps) (inhales deeply) (alarm beeps) (inhales deeply) (video recorder clicks and hisses) (foreboding music) Yuri Lipski met his demise in one of the most dangerous He embarked to set a personal record to achieve a depth that Yet in that pursuit, lost his life to the grueling conditions Since the incident, however, the same can't be said for a multitude of others Online you can find footage of divers discovering the remains with their gear still intact, and it's haunting knowing did not dive in that specific spot, their remains may have never been found, forever confined to the pitch black crypt, that is the deep sea. (foreboding music) (ambient music) Humanity and the ocean have a bizarre relationship with death. (intense music) Superstorms leveling entire cities. Gargantuan waves rocking like a bath time toy. And rogue waves that emerge from nowhere destroying even the largest To this day, remnants of exist on the sea floor with thousands upon thousands of massive manmade Much like the remains of divers, these relics imply and Loss by the hand of an environment we had set out to tame and an everlasting token of failure. (foreboding music) There's an interesting called submechanophobia that delves into the very specific fear of encountering these relics in the wild. It's this primordial repulsion caused by the crippling uncanniness of an object that does not belong, compounded with the lack of any ability to determine its true size. Photo and video of the Titanic, of forgotten animatronics, of ancient relics, a massive anchor, of sunken airplanes, and the interior of shipwrecks are effectively fueling a newer, more recently discovered phobia made possible by the rise of But it isn't always as video, like this one. (water burbling) (propeller whizzing) Also exemplify this For me personally, because of the total inability as it truly is. Like we touched on earlier, our minds are hardwired to fill in blanks with what could be, and more often than not, we achieve this with the most On land, fog is always for the strange and mysterious. And inside the darkest perhaps we can see this (ambient music) (ominous music) It's hard to find the words to conceptualize the fear of the deep in just a single YouTube video, as there are so many ways Whether it's the fear of sea life, or its infinite size, or how dark it is, or how much we truly don't know about it, or its capability of devastation, or its grip on human life, one thing has and will always hold true. The ocean is fucking horrifying. It's an unforgiving frontier harboring some of the most harrowing life and environmental It is and always will be one An entire world we share The vast majority of the planet, yet completely uninhabitable by mankind. Throughout history, it's been said that the moment you enter the ocean, you enter the food chain. Yet contrary to how it is on land, in their world, in their humankind is nowhere near the top. (foreboding music) (slow tempo music) (slow tempo music continues) (slow tempo music continues) (slow tempo music continues) (slow tempo music continues) (slow tempo music continues) (slow tempo music continues) (slow tempo music continues)