These plans were developed for people just like you. People who are interested in having the very latest that will help them cut down on the time and the Since you folks have an old fashioned kitchen, you know the amount of stooping and reaching that and the running from one corner of the kitchen During the last few years, our bureau and the have received hundreds of requests from farm homemakers asking for suggestions that would help them That's why we've developed this kitchen. Well, just how did you start developing We based our planning on established principles To supply storage space and work space for all Arranged for maximum convenience, and with Incidentally, we developed this U-arranged kitchen first But the principles of planning we used, such as the &quot;L&quot; and the Corridor type Laboratory research, and our bureau, and in the has made evident many of the For example we have learned that more counter space is than for any other mixing operation. Experiments have shown that we need at least and that 42 inches is a more desirable length Different kitchen jobs have been studied to determine To obtain different heights in our kitchen, We designed revolving corner cupboards to make the greatest use of available space. These bring things out in the open so they're Models for many features were Some were used, some discarded. Good lighting is important in the kitchen. To obtain this, we developed a design for a homemade fixture which would enable the farmer to use modern a shallow wooden trough, in which we mounted was hung 8 inches from the ceiling, above the work centers And finally our kitchen began to take form. The units for each activity were put together We planned this kitchen to take care of the preparation of food, eating, clearing, and &lt;i&gt;phone ringing&lt;/i&gt; as a convenient place for the telephone, and for making out menus and market orders, we also included a planning center the planning desk is actually a drop-leaf table on casters which can become a tea-cart By placing a large picture window across the end of the kitchen, we gain the benefit of natural light over all work surfaces. Since most women prefer to work from right to left, we placed the mixing center in the right leg of the U between the refrigerator and the sink center. In the mixing center, as in all other work areas we planned storage facilities to take care of all of the supplies and the equipment used in that center. These revolving corner shelves make it possible to store the heavy, and frequently They are roomy enough to hold all of the staple Just below counter level, shallow drawers give Even in the best of kitchens, one will have to stoop sometimes. Store here only things used occasionally. like picnic supplies, extra-large baking utensils, and odds and ends See how easy it is to get at what you want. We designed the smaller top shelf for long handled pans to allow full use of the shelf space below. Space ordinarily wasted is utilized to advantage Another advantage is that they eliminate canisters Behind the door, a container holding 40 pounds of Top shelf space is used to good advantage by vertical This does away with stacking, and with stooping, This mixing center, like the other centers in our kitchen embodies all the principles of good planning. Thus it has plenty of work surface at comfortable height well lighted by natural and artificial lighting with everything needed stored within easy reach. For sitting at work, this pullout board at lap level 26 inches above the floor gives a good working height. It permits a woman to sit comfortably in an ordinary with a good backrest, her feet flat on the floor while she's working at long and tedious jobs. To supply additional work surface in food preservation, the table from the planning center can be easily rolled over and placed next to the pullout board. To the left of the mixing counter is the vegetable preparation and dishwashing center. With knife rack and utensil cupboard at the right, vegetables in front of her, and sink at the left, this worker has a step saving set-up for preparing vegetables. A garbage hatch in the counter eliminates stooping and avoids repeated handling of garbage. The pail in the metal lined compartment below can be removed for emptying from the outside through an insulated door in the wall. All bins and the compartments into which they fit are designed for easy cleaning. In the cooking and serving center are all the supplies and equipment used at the range. Right above the range, are bins built into the wall for food such as cereals that go directly into boiling water and also for seasonings that are used at the range. &lt;i&gt;timer buzzes&lt;/i&gt; Notice how these doors fold back safely out of the way. Serving dishes and rage utensils are close at hand. A serving counter next to the range is convenient Sliding doors back at this counter and cupboard give access from the dining room side. In the dishwashing center, dishes are scraped directly into the garbage hatch and stacked, ready for washing. A double bowl sink provides for both washing and draining. The one on the right is shallow, about 5 inches deep, making for a comfortable height for dishwashing. The drainer hangs across the deeper bowl with room at the side for emptying liquids. This bowl, because of its depth, 8 inches, is also satisfactory for washing large quantities of Just back of the faucets is a cupboard for storing soaps and cleaning supplies. Extra supplies and a handy waste paper basket are kept under the sink. After they're scalded and dried, silver, glass, and dishes are stored in adjoining cupboards. Here's a handy rack for drying dish towels. Out of the way of meal preparation is this storage closet. Besides cleaning equipment, it has the rack for first-aid supplies convenient for emergencies. The upper section is reserved for a few jars of canned foods saving trips to the food storage room. This serving counter, adjacent to the range is convenient to both the dining room and the This attractive dining space has been planned to be compact, but not cramped. It gives ample room for a table that A ledge under the large picture window is wide enough to hold the electrical equipment used at the table. Shelves below give convenient storage space. In this kitchen that has made her task of food preparation so much lighter, the housewife can share her family's enjoyment at mealtime.