[Music] This weekend we are in Haworth in West Yorkshire little villages in England. Yes and it's also in the parsonage just at the top of the village. to capture the atmosphere - yeah - and - to it would be the perfect place so we hope you parsonage where the Brontes moved in 1820 and greatest novels. Sadly filming isn't allowed can find the world's largest collection of Brontes [Music] So next to the parsonage is the Old Anne, Branwell, Charlotte all of them taught here it says here Charlotte's wedding reception go inside and have a look around but there's a In front of me you can see the parsonage behind which is so special. It almost looks unreal as to romanticise things because as gorgeous as have a tragic story because back in the day sanitation. It was a very polluted place because that the drinking water was contaminated by church graveyard and the life expectancy here This is St Michael and all Bronte was curate for more than 40 years. [Music] Okay, let's go into the church. [Music] We are now in a tea room which is the Apothecary Apothecary Tea Rooms and and Jorg, what did you and egg double decker. Amazing. I ordered the from Churchill. I need to show you. It's very and they have a factory shop in is your so-called - double decker. Double an egg. Oh wow. And the other one with before. Yeah. Enjoy. But yours looks good. [Music] This here is the Fleece Inn where we're going coaching inn and as you can see it's here on It's honestly magical. Yes and I can't wait is prepared for Christmas. Yes. So many Christmas it will be just magical. We're really it's so busy - yeah - because last time I when we - yeah it was a weekday and it was cold mean it doesn't take away from the beauty. I think if you love everything quintessentially is Haworth Old Hall and it's one of the oldest [Music] We are now at Haworth railway station. coming but just a regular one. Did you see for Christmas? Yeah. We should do that. Well, So one is called Elf Express. Elf Express There's a train coming. Yeah. There's a train a steam engine. As I said. How lucky are we? I I can't believe it. I I honestly can't 5 minutes - yes - and then we had a steam engine. want to visit the platform. 1 Pound to get to it. Definitely. Today it was worth it. I think is the regular way to travel - yes - in the UK - think I saw just a regular train. How great. I'm mean I looked at the time table at home. You they've got a train station here. What? Yeah. time to do the planning. So it was just luck and train station and then the steam engine. Now this place is called The Snug on It's a one bed boutique style it's decorated for Christmas. It looks Breakfast. There are a lot of places here on on called The Registry and I tried to book it but it to come back to this place and I think we will To me this is like a time capsule. I don't think churchyards in the UK. This one is like another this gravestone - and to me it tells a, yeah you're look into it. Elizabeth. It says memory of a Mary who was 2 years old - yes - then of she was - who was 21 and that - then Joshua who young. The oldest is 24. Yeah. That's a tragedy. so sad. Yeah. That makes you feel sad. But I must you can still read them and that's yeah, they [Music] This is my favourite spot. I think because it is around the corner, it's so busy and here it's breathe. It's wonderful. I remember so well when And then all the leaves and they keep them there. walking up there or running, you can book spooky we have arrived at our accommodation. It's called Yes. Jorg? Yeah. Have we fallen out because - yeah twin bedroom. Yeah. Basically because we decided that was the only room we could get but it's It's cosy. Yeah. So this is room number 5 and you can't really see it. And we are next to the something that we found last minutes. Yeah, it's take a nap - yeah - before we go to dinner so have a tea and coffee station. Look this is we don't have much stuff anyway for one night nice. Do you want a cup of tea? No. I do. I do. I do they have tea bags? Oh yeah. Probably in here. It's great. [Music] It just started to rain but it's not We always love during the festive season is really a thing in Germany and it's I don't know if you can even hear me. We're The Fleece? It says The Fleece. And just left and I couldn't be more happy about it. we just ordered our food. Okay, our food just mashed potatoes, vegetables, some sauce. Jorg! onion mashed potatoes - oh - Yorkshire pudding [Music] We made it back to the room and I do enjoy food was good though. Also quite affordable. combination with the rain when you walk past the It's incredible. I really really love that. I can I I had a look yesterday it was actually sold out. to bed in an hour or so and we will keep exploring Good morning! It's only ten past 8 o'clock yesterday was so busy and we just want to beautiful. The light is amazing. Have a look. here on Main Street and in the back you've got [Music] Einen schonen guten Morgen. Yes. Good freezing cold. Yes but the sun is out, a little love this. We're going to breakfast now but from the outside actually. This is it called it. It was a great last minute choice so see we do Weavers of Haworth and we really like it. [Music] more into the shop, The Cabinet of Curiosities. we are probably one of the first customers. Yes. I spotted a Christmas book that I want to get. Christmas presents. Did you see anything that the decoration so much. Let's go there. I'm so display and all the decoration. The mushrooms, I it. Whenever I see a display like [Music] I really like this as a gift idea because and inside is a candle, a soap bar and bath bomb. just so pretty, isn't it? I'm currently thinking candles as a gift. Oh! That's the ginger bread - I don't know it might be a a gift idea. It's a do everything themselves here. Yes so they're don't know gingerbread is Christmassy. This is work all all year. Hm. You really love that. I Can you give this one a sniff? Hemlock. Hemlock. Yeah. I don't know. I really don't book I'd love to get. Yeah and we'll can you show it? Then I can film. little stories. I think I really like that to get Yes. If you do love taking a bath you, you love bath. Or here. Sweet dreams yeah the I don't know the packaging. Yeah. And look here. Ointment. Yeah. I love things like that traditional. Look. Yeah. So [Music] Look at the ceiling. It's so magical. Look fun. I love this. [Music] Look, how cute is this? Is this - tiny - a book - yeah - and then a small That's so heavy. It's really heavy. Yeah. Is that here. It's like gilded. Yeah. Wow. It's so me this shop is magical because it feels like I love the books. And the smell! It smells went inside without their husbands - enjoyed it because I like smells and - the ones we we showed they were so heavy behind us you is the church and you can there's isn't it? Yeah. So that's the the bag - which is inside last time we came. Yeah. We really missed beautifully wrapped and then - a candle - than, you you just can't leave without something. [Music] As you can tell we are in the car. Uh. Yeah, Hill Country Park. Yes because we wanted there's a a Bronte chair, a Bronte bridge. because this is where they supposedly spent they got their inspiration from this landscape. but Jorg was like, what did you say a while ago? 5 He said he doesn't want to go because he's a wimp. just don't have the right clothes. Look at me. I rain yesterday - no - so but I think I don't know. should be Heathcliff. No. I I think we should risk we'll get wet. We get wet. I mean it's a it's just thing is we won't come back that quick - no - could have a hot chocolate afterwards as a reward. So, yeah let let's try and see if it works out. to give it a try. Jorg is behind me. I'm wearing today. Very windy which makes it even colder. The I hope it's worth it so we'll see. This should be area. They are always so curious. Look. Jorg is [Music] Look at the beautiful landscape. Yeah, it's beautiful. These are the Yorkshire Moors can go for walks and leave I don't know Yes. Heathcliff! Heathcliff! You are too slow. I think we're nearly there. Maybe 500 again. Actually quite heavily. Well, we should the Bronte bridge is down there. Okay, this is Bronte sat on it -yeah here. See someone someone see it. But it looks like a chair. It does. down here. Imagine being alone on your own. In a wonderful spot. Yeah. The the positive thing people are here so that's good. [Music] What many which is a farmhouse ruin. We won't be doing that really love it here. Sometimes I absolutely need, [Music] Okay, despite the rain I think it is Bronte weather. I always associate rough Sun wouldn't be fitting. No. It's, sun is that's a good I don't know yeah yeah, a raining very heavily in the city that's Charles Christmas time in one of the loveliest villages you liked it. Yeah, I loved it. Me too. I get it I don't know, a Christmas Market - yeah the place where the Sweet Shop is. That would be Okay. Gedeckter Apfelkuchen mit Sahne - oh yeah When we were walking yeah, she was always Just to tease me because she knows I love very cruel. Now I do fancy a hot chocolate get it? Apfelkuchen. Where to get it? At home. You we hope you like the video and as always getting into the Christmas mood. Yes. I think next week. Next week. So. Maybe. Most see you again very soon and take care.