I'm finally about to become your bride It's your white moonlight again He Hansheng Today is our engagement party What's more urgent than this? You have been a long time I'm really gonna get mad. The congratulatory letter said that I have treated you well without hesitation these years Are you sick? I'm in the rain to buy you medicine When your career needs me I stay up late to learn the expertise you need For you I could even take my own life But you make me sad again and again Once or twice 100 times 200 times I can forgive you, but today It's our engagement party If it really ends I will never forgive you Brother Han Sheng My chest hurts. Can you come to the hospital to see me? I'll be right there. He Hansheng Are you sure you want to be in front of so many people? Embarrass me? He Hansheng If you take one step further I'll break up with you Xu Xinran You want to use this low-level means to keep my brother again Guess how many days he'll be back this time? My group tomorrow As long as Mr. He comes back Xu Xinyan will immediately ask to see herself Hmm, I can't wait ten minutes for tomorrow. Ten minutes later Xu Xinran will go to treat Xu Xinran What did you just say? I'll say it again. I said I have forgiven you countless times This time, if you leave I will never forgive you. Will break up with you OK Break up break up I hope you can last longer this time. Don't look back so quickly He Hansheng, I spent 7 years loving you But in the end Our engagement ceremony It can't compare to a phone call from your white moonlight in the past 7 years Today's animated angel It's my last chance to give our previous relationship Those people You didn't cherish this opportunity I, Xu Xinran, ended my life with He Hansheng I will never marry him For this matter He Han was not born to die Xu Yiran Come press my head Miss Xu has not come back since yesterday Hmph, play this game with me again Qin An drove to Indonesia The apartment is the president Miss Xu, the county magistrate, didn't come back all night Aren't you worried? Who does she think she is? He Hansheng You used to dislike my mouth What to say If you hadn't always called my mouth a crow's mouth I wouldn't be so insecure This time I can finally get rid of you. Come sit on the stars I want to ask you to do me a favor. What is Huashan doing? Marry me? Thank you for listening to me. What about your traffic police? Something happened in France He left behind a child But the policy there is to be married to have children I just can't help it. Quiet, just help me with this. Wait until I get the baby back I'll divorce you, okay? Jiaojiao, what's wrong with her? she Brother Huaqiang, don't worry. I will take the certificate to the Civil Affairs Bureau for you now. Brother Han Sheng I'm sorry. I didn't know that yesterday was your engagement day I'm calling New Anjie now to explain it clearly No, it's none of your business. It was my decision. Again Xu Xinran is a dog I raise It won't be long He will be the same as before Come back obediently You say But he hasn't come back yet. Mr. He Do you think Xu Xinran will be really angry this time? Angry, I have known Xu Xinran for so many years No matter what I say or do Even if you step on his dignity So will he. This is what I look like. No matter what I do to him He won't react Then why don't you call him and have dinner together? Hello, the number you dialed is in progress. Mr. He He didn't answer. Find out where he is now In Xiangcheng Go to Xiangcheng Brother Han Sheng I'll go with you. You're going, too? All because of me You got it wrong. I want to explain it to Sister Xie An in person. Mr. He, please punctuate Xiaoxiao thank you Wait for me to come back I will thank you personally with my delicate child. Don't be so polite. Huashan brother Wait for me. Master, why don't you tell Miss Shen the truth? Mr. He, Miss Xu is here Brother Han Sheng Please send a message to Sister Xinran first. He actually blocked me. Director Xu didn't expect it? You really made trouble for a long time this time The gifts are all bought. It's time to ask me Who said this was for you? Dare to pull you He also said that no one would go He Hansheng Do you think I can't do it without you? Otherwise what does it mean I didn't buy this dress for you. It's not for me. Who could that be for? Xu Xiran You always run away from home for a few days like that Delete my block Then come back with gifts and cook some meals with me And we're back together. You are too inferior I bought this dress for someone else Give it to someone else. I have known you best for so many years Except I don't have any friends, lovers, birthdays No one sent you a blessing. You are here now, pitiful You just want me to coax you back I'm married! What do you mean? I said I was married. This dress is a wedding present I bought for my marriage partner Is that okay? I said it was a wedding present I bought for my newlywed Do you understand? Sister Xinran, don't be angry I called Brother Han Sheng yesterday. I didn't know it was your engagement day no. no. You will call He Hansheng at the engagement party Xia Qingqing, are you really accurate? Xu Zhian Qingqing kindly came to explain to you You treat her like this Apologize to her quickly Let me apologize to her. Impossible in the next life I'll tell you one last time We have broken up. Please stop pestering me Xu Xinran, what do you mean by that? You ask Mr. He what you gave me. Do you bark when I talk to He Hansheng? You Xu Xinran I'll give you one last chance. I count down to five You go back with me now I'll pretend nothing happened I can also make up the engagement party for you. 5 Xu Xinran Our president will give you the steps, so hurry down. Don't be ignorant of praise Sister Xinran, you can go back with Brother Han Sheng It's not that our president will come back obediently with a word three Sure enough Still have to come with me Who said not to go with you? Pardon me? He Hansheng, I admit it. Without you before I really can't live Even if it's just for a second I'm worried to death You know it But now I find I can live better without you Say what? He Hansheng, I solemnly tell you one last time We have broken up. Please stay away from me in the future Xu Xingchen I'll tell you what. Why am I grateful? You go back to me right now Does He Hansheng really think he is a thing? Newcomer sister Don't deliberately anger Brother Han Sheng anymore You buy these clothes? It's just for brother Han Sheng To please him? I please her You see, this is the latest model from Armani. Brother Han Sheng has always worn this brand of clothes You bought it as soon as it came out today. And you say you don't miss him? Who said that buying clothes must be a gift for him? Is it under the sun? Is he the only one who can wear this brand? Then who did you buy it for? You've never had anyone else by your side all these years Not before. Now. Director Xu, what do you mean by that? Who else is around you? Since you don't believe Then I can do it now. To call him over Sister Lan, don't be so emotional anymore Is there anyone around you? Brother Han Sheng and I are really just friends Why don't you believe it? Friend a friend who can fall in love A man who can leave his engaged wife at the engagement scene Abandoned friend Don't make trouble It's just a party This banquet If the banquet is solemn to you I can host you anytime. It's just a party He Hansheng You still don't understand why I want to upgrade I don't understand I'm just looking for presence Xu Xinran has been like this for so many years make trouble Finally found or left How many times must this trick be played? I don't have that kind of time. Play this boring game with you I accept the gift. I also forgive things Now you have 10 minutes. Pack up your emotions and come home with me I'm not that patient right now Sorry about that. I don't have that much patience right now Mr. Xu You come with me! How can Mr. He forgive us like this? Why should I beg his forgiveness? You don't ask for his forgiveness It's you who will be embarrassed Really? If you stay here any longer Don't go for a while Embarrassing you If you continue to stay here Don't go for a while Embarrassing you Young people continue to pretend Who doesn't know the whole capital? As long as we each go a little bit You'll be like a pug in no time Go back to him Are you so funny Sister Xinlan, please take it soft Xu Xinsoft The time I give you is still final. Excuse me. My time for you is up. Hello husband The clothes have been bought. Come and pick me up now Yuqing, here I come Brother Huai Shan, this is for you. Thank you. Thank you. Xu Xinran didn't buy this dress for Mr. He What are you giving him? I told you before. I bought this dress for Brother Huai Chuan Huaichuan brother You two have become so close Xu Xinran, wear the clothes you bought for me for him. What he wears Why don't you take a look yourself? Who is this dress for? Mr. He, you wear size 185. Why don't we open it to see if it's your code? Just know It doesn't seem to be yours, does it? Mr. He doesn't seem to be yours, does he? That's it. This is what Xiqing bought for me Give it back to me. Thanks. Xu Xingran If you go with him Never come back Mr. Han Mr. Han Are you alright, Mr. Han? Brother Han Sheng Mr. He, Mr. He Mr. Xu Xinyuan He Fly over overnight to find you I haven't drunk a sip of water since last night He already had stomach problems You made him so anxious You are too cold Hello 120? Someone is dying here I already called him 120. Not so cold Aren't you going to the hospital to take care of him? I'm not a doctor What's the use of going you Go, go, go, go Great. This time, Xu Xingren finally left Brother Han Sheng completely Brother Huaqiang, I'm so sorry to suddenly call you here It doesn't matter. I'm always on call for you Brother Han Sheng Brother Han Sheng You woke up and the doctor said to drink some millet porridge to warm your stomach Let me help you up. Brother Han Sheng This is the porridge I made for you myself Drink it while it's hot I'm not a doctor What's the use of going What about others? Miss Xu has gone to Flower City And he's pretty fast. Mr. He Xu Qingran is obviously playing hard to get He hired an actor to keep me busy It's not your turn to make irresponsible remarks I'm sorry, Mr. He It's my prison go out Brother Han Sheng Don't be angry with my sister You go out too I want to be alone Brother Han Sheng go out OK Well, have a good rest! Miss Xia, I think Xu Xian did it on purpose He really thought he had a place in Mr. He's heart I didn't expect Xu Xian to become smart this time and take retreat as progress Miss Xia, what should we do now? Hello, brother Tang Jing Are you in the hospital? I want to ask you to do me a favor. Han Shao Just now, Qingqing fainted because she was too guilty and too excited. She is frail You take care of her Han Shao, you clearly know that he needs you more I can't go back to him. For Xu Xinran? Why are you confused? Xu Xinran is just making trouble He can't live without you. He will come back by himself But Qingqing needs you the most here. You should prioritize green and green. I can't focus on youth anymore I will meet the Chen family in the future Will have his own wife and children They are more important to me Qingqing over there You are a more useful doctor than me Qingqing, don't think too much In Han Sheng's heart, you are the most important It's just that this time Xu Xingran's trouble is more serious Han Sheng just gave him a step down I understand. After all, Sister Xi'an will be Brother Han Sheng's wife in the future And I'm just a sister Xu Xinyuan, if you know him, don't come back Otherwise, the heartache at the engagement party is just the beginning Brother Heishan, this steakhouse is very delicious. Today I ask Hello hello number 9 Hello Please send someone to follow me in and register. Alone yes Internet celebrity store so many rules Go ahead. I'll wait outside. Just the two of us. Is it still used as a box? Don't you want to eat steak? Do not eat My friend is still waiting for me outside. And I wasn't sitting with my ex-boyfriend either So long? unappetizing And so forth. I haven't agreed to break up yet Breaking up only requires one person's consent It's about the engagement party, right? I have a problem with this. ill-considered Make you feel wronged But don't worry. There won't be a next time. I'll give you a bigger gift He Hansheng, please do it for me. clear situation I've broken up with you. There will be no more engagement parties. You and Xia Qingqing are a natural match I'm the one who got in the way among you Give him the engagement party too I beg you, don't come to harm me, okay? How many times have I told you? Xia Qingqing is just my sister We didn't take your money between us. Why don't you believe it? I don't care if you are brother or sister That's your business. It has nothing to do with me. He Hansheng, I hope you are like a man If you break up, don't pester me. entanglement Don't forget who has been entangling you for the past 7 years Yes I have indeed pestered you for the past seven years I recognize all the bitter fruits I get, and so do I But He Hansheng From now on I won't pester you anymore. I let you go Let you let them open Let's have steak first. He Hansheng You don't think I'll be the same as before Come back and lick you fry How come? You crow mouth is back Yeah, my mouth is back. So you broke up with me happily Don't pester Otherwise, your good sister Xia Qingqing will suffer You know how smart my crow's mouth is Your good sister can't stand me Sure enough, Xia Qingqing is the most important thing in your heart What is He Hansheng doing? You put me down He Hansheng, what are you doing? You put me down He Hansheng, what are you doing? You let me go rogue I am a rascal You drugged me When you climb into my bed Isn't that what you want? He Hansheng, I liked you at that time But I want face. I can't do something like this. You don't really think you're a hot pot I want to sleep with you so much Don't you know how bad your skills are? Brother Han Sheng Why don't you have a glass of water? bitch bitch elder brother Xu Xinran You bitch How dare you drug my brother? I don't have it. I don't know. Dao, what's going on? Brother Han Sheng I wake up What to say trust me So you always thought I gave you the medicine I didn't expect me to be so unbearable in your eyes Xu Xinran Pardon me? I beg your pardon. He Hansheng You don't always think I'm looking forward to the first day of that month. Was it when I slept with you? Can't you feel my resistance? I Ji Ru Tea Ah! Don't touch me It's the first time I've seen you look so crazy Go ahead I like it He Hansheng, I curse you endlessly Pardon me? Xu Xiran Xu Xiran Of course I have my crow's mouth Can't curse my beloved Otherwise, it will be backfired Brother Han Sheng You are the person I love the most grandma come Ran Ran, drink this bowl of porridge Replenish the body Thank you, Mrs. Chen, for your hard work. You have a good rest nourish the body Nothing is more important than your own body Don't worry, Mrs. Chen. I'm all right. When I first came to the imperial capital I came here innocent. You can't walk with a dirty body Since He Hansheng thinks I did what I wanted Then I'll pull out the people I really want Prove my innocence What's going on here? Drink to relieve your worries? This is not like the He Hansheng I know. You drink less Bad stomach Be careful your housekeeper goes back and talks about you again He won't what's wrong When you called off the engagement Everyone is waiting Think about how long it will take for Xu Xinran to come back I didn't expect it to be you who couldn't stand it first Tie him up He's breaking up with me. Really, isn't that a good thing? Hahaha, don't look at me like that. Isn't that what you want? This Xu Xinran is not from the same world as me You really want to marry her? Neither of you are of equal status Just have fun. Juan Not you. Really? Han Sheng as A friend for many years I advise you You must not have feelings for Xu Xinran He said to leave you and let it go Otherwise I can't do it. I only think of Xu Xinran now The thought of him leaving My chest is so clogged I can't breathe Han Sheng If you really care about Xu Xinran Then all I can say is that you're screwed. I'm speaking from a bystander's point of view You don't love him at all You don't even care about him I heard he was breaking up with you My first reaction You're going to be free He's going to be free too You two, one iceberg, one flame Can't get together at all? Xu Xiran If you go with him Never come back Go go go go I have sent the person to you. I'll leave it to you He drank a little too much You remember to make him a bowl of sober soup Mrs. Chen made him a bowl of sober soup Hey, don't you cook it? I'm not his nanny Besides, he drank it himself He drank to death. He deserved it. I hope you figure it out quickly. Break up with Mr. Xu early Otherwise, you will be abused next Xu Xin then Open the door Xu Xinran Xu Xinran opened the door Open the door. Open the door. Come and promise people Actually open the door If He Hansheng wants to go crazy, go back to your own room and send it. Don't come to me crazy You two? An iceberg and a flame Can't get together at all I will move out for a while I'll be back when you're done digesting it Happy birthday to you. My birthday wish is to be Han Sheng's brother's girlfriend Wow Congratulations! Your wish has come true He Hansheng I've been with you since I was 18 I always thought you knew me best in the world The person who believes in me the most But I didn't expect that. You still suspect that I gave you the medicine That being the case In your heart you think I am like this A terrible person Then our relationship will end here Ran Ran is about to eat Thank you Mrs. Chen I like the food cooked by Mrs. Chen the most. You Will make me happy Ran Ran, do you have a problem with Mr. He? We broke up. break up Hmm broke up Is it because of the banquet? Sort of. Don't worry. Mrs. Chen, I'm fine. Xu Xingran didn't play tricks Since you have chosen to leave quietly Why come back? Ms. He is so powerful No don't know Your son picked me up himself, right? Don't be complacent Since you are back, come to the old house quickly I'm entertaining people today You come to serve Ok you wait I'll be right there. Hurry up! Just wait. You daughter-in-law? I can't do it before I get through the door Do you think this is the head of the congratulatory letter? I didn't pay attention to your wife before and after? Jingyi, that is, you have a good temper. A wealthy family like us How can I accept Xu Xinran's lack of background? A future daughter-in-law with no background? And you were so nice to him He still doesn't take you seriously You have to make good rules for him Call has been forwarded to voicemail Jingyi, did he block you? Okay, you Xu Xingren How dare you block me Work hard oops Well, Mom, I finally missed you to death. Oh, dear. You got it If He Han Sheng hadn't brought you back I haven't seen you yet. Ouch, Teacher Yu asked for mercy and didn't mention him Ugh You're a celebrity in the city now Engagement party cancelled A lot of people thought you were going to walk away I didn't expect it. He Hansheng ran to a few cities and brought you back I fell out Oh, I'll go. Please don't mention him Hey, shh, okay. Dinner at pretty restaurant in half an hour Hmm, what a coincidence. The restaurant is Pepe Yeah, romantic dinner. Waiting Don't worry, it won't come yet. Hello Two filets Dead-hearted, dead-hearted To the steakhouse yes Brother Han Sheng Here he comes I see him He's just below my house. He tried to kill me! Taken from your apartment yes Sorry for the temporary hijacking. rely on He Hansheng is such a scumbag Moments you only send to Xiang Qingqing alone He Hansheng won't come in the next second This woman is scheming How special He Hansheng has been to Xia Qingqing in the past 7 years I already knew it Brother Han Sheng I recently discovered a really good steakhouse Let's eat together No time, go by yourself I've had that taste a hundred times. Don't worry about it. Wow, sister, don't feel bad. I'll take you to find a puppy tonight We'll find ten, and there's always one you like. Then completely forget the scum He Hansheng Wow so cold Sister, I was wrong. You should have come out with you earlier when you asked me Second Young Master, I'm jealous Why does that person look so much like Xu Qingran? What's up? Who touched me and broke my leg? Ah! Ah, my leg! My leg security My leg! Aah! Isn't this Zheng Pengfei? Why is he so unlucky? Is he unlucky? He deserved it. How come? He was a hooligan to me. I curse him You curse him happy Your crow's mouth is ready You were a crow's mouth It was great to save me from the gangsters After three years, your crow's mouth is finally healed Yeah, three years. It's time to find out who framed me Let's go and take you to continue watching the good show Xu Qingyuan, this bitch Can't spare him Drinking and driving, be careful of being hit Yeah, you seem to need help very much. You beg me Maybe I will save you mercifully Don't you think Don't ask for it Don't go I beg you. You can ask me to save you But you have to answer me a question first You say The cup of medicine in He Hansheng's wine Is it your result? Xu Xinran, you bitch What I did is still on my head If you don't go down, I'll get out The more malicious the person towards me The more my curse will affect him He Yunting is just a simple forehead with six blood The situation is not serious Isn't he the one showing off to me? If you lie The car will catch fire If you don't want to save me, get out No response, it doesn't seem to be him Don't worry, I'll call the police. The police will be here soon. It's not him. If it was him, the car would be on fire Don't be depressed. Heart, I also know a fun place I'll take you to play Let's go and take you to see good things Sister, there is such a good place. You didn't bring me here sooner I used to be able to call you out I was wrong. I was wrong. I also nourish my stomach Report don't move a little bit Let me squat down Lift me down and squat down This place doesn't look like a ghost You didn't say earlier No problem. Same as before Just hallucinating Take care of her Don't worry, she is Xia Ming's sister. I'll take care of her if you don't tell me But it's you? You haven't slept in days. Dark circles are so heavy Can't sleep can't sleep Are you still thinking about studying? Hello, Sisi? Hello brother I'm playing in a bar. And now at the police station Can you come and pick me up? You were caught sweeping pornography. brother Okay, okay, I won't say it anymore. I'll pick you up right away Ok, thank you, brother. Uh that Xinran is also with me Can you find someone to pick him up too? I'm afraid this is not very convenient. You know that. It's his friend His guardian's Okay, okay, don't want trouble? Brother it doesn't matter I'll try calling someone else. Hello Huashan brother I'm at the police station. Can you come pick me up? Where to go Go pick up your sister Go, go, go! let go Xinran, then I'll go to the door and wait for you first. Go, Huai Chuan It will be here in a while. You didn't let He Hansheng pick you up What's your name? Xinran and He Hansheng have broken up Of course he won't look for He Hansheng, right? But he Xu Xiang I'm coming to get you. Brother Hua Xuan, I'm so sorry to cause you trouble. It doesn't matter, it's a matter of a few steps. What are you doing here? Hey, when Sisi called me Han Sheng is with me I was going to pick you up, but Brother Han Cheng, I'm really inviting you today. Go back and rest early What else can you say to me? If you have anything in the future, you can contact me. Then I'll go back first. Everyone send me a message. Why didn't you call me? I'm tired now. I want to rest Why is that? Why is that? You want to know why? Fine. I'll tell you why. Hello, I'm at the police station now. Let He Han come up to pick me up Xu Xinran is now in such a shameful situation at the police station I'm sorry to ask Mr. He to pick you up Find someone yourself Mr. He is very busy I don't have time to pick you up. That's what Qin An said Didn't you hear everything? Well, you could have called me. Good question. Hello, the number you dialed is on the phone Please dial again later You hear me? No one called me Why am I on the phone? Because you blocked me. Xu Xinran, are you bored? All day long you know to call me If you have anything, go to my special assistant Stop calling I can rest now, Mr. He Sorry I let it go stop That's your business. It has nothing to do with me I just want to rest now Are you home? I'll give you my phone when it arrives. Sister, I have something to say, right? Yeah, missed you. Hello You are looking for me, you are very familiar with Xu Xinran, right? What does he like? Tell me not to coax him He wanted to be free. I want you to break up with him If you break up with him directly He will be very happy. He doesn't need anything else. Don't talk nonsense. Seriously, am I wrong? When Xin'er liked him in the past, he did nothing Now Xin'er doesn't like him anymore He does all these useless things The baby died and he came to milk What's the use? What nerve I dare not retreat even if I break up. It's all about me Don't worry about it. You go and help me prepare a bigger engagement party Everything has to be of the highest specification Are you going to redo the engagement party? With whom? Who else but Xu Qingran? Do it now Every detail must be perfect Yes, I got it. Mr. He actually wants to re-organize the engagement party with Xu Xinran It's going to be bigger More grand This was something that had never happened before. No, I have to tell Miss Xia quickly Hello Miss Xia I have a situation to tell you. Pardon me? Brother Han Sheng wants to make up the engagement party with Xu Xinyang Absolutely. Miss Xia, Mr. He personally ordered me Why is this Xu Jingren so haunted? Hello aunt I have something to tell you. Qin Tianran, come out for me Xu Xingran, why didn't you come yesterday? Do you know You made me lose a lot of face. Ms. Zhang's face was given by herself It wasn't given by someone else. You are ashamed because you have no face What does it have to do with me? You call me shameless You said that yourself. I didn't scold you. How did you talk to me? Look at you, you can't get on the table I also want to be the wife of our He family To be my daughter-in-law You have to listen to me Be obedient to what I serve Otherwise, don't even think about entering my door Yes, yes, it's your son. Okay? Your He family is high I don't deserve you Hurry up and match your son Xu Xingran, you are also qualified to dislike my son My son is the best in the imperial capital The youngest person in power Our He family It is also the famous family of the imperial capital, Wangzu You can help my son. That is the blessing of the three generations of your ancestors Well, I know your son He Hansheng The son of heaven He Hansheng is amazing My son is so outstanding What's your reaction? My son is excellent, I know. What does he have to do with me? I will not marry him Pardon me? You won't marry my son OK He's home. OK, that's what you said. Then please do it now. Leave my son's villa immediately Okay, but you drove me away. I'm leaving now. Where do you intend to go? Your mom let me go Son Xu Xingran finally doesn't pester you anymore Tell him to get out I'll find you another partner. Hey, haven't you always liked Xia Qingqing? Just right, I'll arrange it for you. Yes, yes, hurry up and arrange Who said I like little stars? I don't need you to take care of my business Beating here early in the morning What do you want? And drive him away Who gives you the right? Son, it's not my fault. I asked Xu Xingran to go to the old house yesterday He stood me up. Made my old sisters laugh at me Shame me He was right not to go. What was he doing? Be treated as a maid by you Humiliated by you Despised by you Okay, don't explain Mind your own business Be your Helan If you cause trouble again, I will send you back to Dongshi Son, I am your mother Ah, you actually want to send me back to Dongshi Just for Xu Xingran Are you crazy? If you don't go I'll take you back to Dongshi now cut What's up? Follow me to the company I'll go. You have to go if you don't go Oh I go Can't you go? Then I have to go upstairs and change my clothes You can't wear pajamas. Go Fine. I'll wait downstairs. Since you are so idle Then I don't mind finding you something to do Yeah, Han Sheng is taking me to his company to have a good time Chilling to death Hello President president Hand over the job You're fired. President, did I do something wrong? Please tell me. I will definitely change Is there any misunderstanding in the president? I brought the money I've been watching his work It's all done perfectly. I don't even know where I'm wrong What qualifications do you have to stay in the company? Don't worry, the compensation that should be given will not be less. Go away It's you, right? You spoke ill of me in front of the president Xu Xinran's personal grudge between us You do my job Are you shameless? It can also be blamed on me He Hansheng Don't you know why you fired? Didn't you do anything dirty? And He Hansheng fired you. If you have any grievances, go to him What's the matter with you biting me? I look scared, right? You bitch Who gave you the guts to scold him? Get out of here What happened to Brother Han Sheng? What's up? Brother Han Sheng What's up? Haisheng brother You look angry. Leprechaun gives money The president wants to fire me Brother Han Sheng Did Qin An do something wrong? Why did you fire him suddenly? Qin An has always worked hard He really had a hard time Is there anyone Brother Han Sheng Please give Qin An another chance. It's really not easy for him Oops, brother Han Sheng Qin An worked very hard Even if he's out doing private work Enter the reserve price of cooperation That's not why you fired him either. It was not easy for him to come out of the mountains You have to forgive him Sister Yi Ran, you are too much. You want Brother Han Sheng to fire Qin An To say such irresponsible words Do you know How much impact will your words have on Qin An? He will be banned by all Han An You know it's not good for people When you open your mouth, it's yin and yang When I asked the congratulatory letter to dismiss Qin An Isn't it a promise? I find you guys really interesting If I can get He Hansheng to fire Qin An Qin An even stayed until now If not That brother Han Sheng is good Why did you quit Qin An? Then you go ask him. What are you asking me for? I'm not a worm in his stomach If you didn't do anything wrong to the company You don't have to feel guilty But if you do But it will be unlucky. He's out of luck. you The person who hit me in front of my face Are you tired of living? CEO, my brother Han Sheng It's not Qin An's fault It's Sister Xin'an, she's been threatening Qin An I fire someone who eats inside and out Xu An You know what you did. The company will also check I will settle the bill with you then. Go away I don't have it I didn't. The CEO misunderstood me. Hey president president Here we go. Miss Xia What the hell is going on? Why did Brother Han Sheng suddenly dismiss Qin An? Maybe it's because of Xu Xingren Why are you closing the door? Xia Qingqing hasn't come in yet Why do you think I fired the others? Didn't you find out that the money betrayed you? I did it for you He Hansheng What decision do you make? Leave me alone That's your business. He treats you with such disrespect I only found out yesterday. He Hansheng, are you sick? You didn't care if you didn't explain it before What are you talking about now? You're not trying to impress me, are you? You don't have to. make a wish What happened at the engagement party was that I didn't do well Sorry. You can forgive me. He Hansheng I forgive you for the engagement party But we're okay Is it bad to break up peacefully? Don't break up Everything I did to you in the past was my fault So if you could give me another chance I'll give you a bigger gift. I won't ignore you anymore All right? i No, the eldest lady fainted Come in please. Are you all right? come But Han Sheng You scum Go out and save him What about Xu Xinran? Shortly after you left with the daughter in your arms Miss Xu left Stop pretending I'm sorry, brother Tang Jing. I used you again Qingqing has always been like this It's not the way to pretend You should be able to tell. He Hansheng has no feelings for you anymore Why can Xu Xinran and I can't? How can I compare to him? He Hansheng didn't marry her because he loved you It's just his luck Just blocked a knife for him Otherwise, why should he Don't worry, I'll help you. Oh, thank you kindly. Hero brother Han Shao, you know Qingqing's situation Can't be stimulated. Today she is full of joy How could you faint? Is Xu Xin willing to work in the company? Qingqing's condition is so serious You took her abroad for treatment You have to chase Qingqing away In her case, it would be better to go abroad. No. But You know she'll be fine by your side You still I am the one who wants to get married I will have children in the future There will be family I can't stay with Xia Qingqing all day, right? You take her abroad Wait until Xu Xinran and I finish the engagement party I don't want to do it. I don't want this national security treatment Qingqing listen Your condition is better treated abroad When you are healed I'll ask you to come back, okay? I don't want my disease to be cured Brother Han Cheng I beg you not to let me go, okay? I really can't leave you Han Cheng's actual condition has been brought under control In fact, there is no need to go abroad for treatment I have arranged everything abroad for you Of course, Tang Jing will also accompany you. You will not be alone I don't want I don't want good boy Your health is not good. Lie down and rest. Brother Lan Sheng, I beg you not to go Brother Lansheng Qingqing, are you alright Qingqing He Hansheng Qingqing fainted You went to He's? How do you know that? You and He Hansheng have always been the focus of the imperial capital Especially after your engagement party When you entered the group with He Hansheng The photo went viral in the group in the circle How long are you blocked? I want to block for three days But He Hansheng is crazy now and won't let you go What happened to He Hansheng? I don't really like you, do I? I used to think he liked me But now I don't think so In fact, He Hansheng is a person with a strong sense of responsibility I blocked that knife for him Let his sense of responsibility be held accountable to me But don't worry. I know He Hansheng very well He was such a proud man Won't keep humbling me After a while he didn't think I was interesting Will give me a sum of money to leave him Xu Xinran What am I supposed to do with you? Miss Xu, today is the day of your scar surgery. When will you come over? Brother Haohan be careful I'm going now I accompany you No. Don't let me accompany you I'm afraid I'll see something I shouldn't What is the matter with you Wait for me outside Xu Xinran You must have blown this off your ears in front of the president I asked the president to fire me Why are you so cheap? The groom ran away at the engagement party It doesn't taste good The president's attitude is already obvious I don't care about you at all Why are you so shameless? So what if you take me away? Change what? People, sadly no. Self-knowledge Such an upside-down product. The president won't take you seriously Check his money for me right away What activities have you done in the company? Gather evidence and tell him Put him in jail Xu Xinran, you bitch I was fired by Mr. He Hello Mr. Jiang Your routine company secrets Mr. He decided to sue Mr. Jiang is not like this Let me explain. You can explain it to Mr. He yourself, hey Hello Mr. He I've been with you since I graduated Don't listen to Xu Xinran's nonsense I am loyal to you Please give me another chance. I saw all the text messages you sent to Xu Xinran. So that's how much you respect him in private, isn't it? I'll give you money. Let you buy her a present Let you take her on a trip How about you? Humiliate her, provoke her. Insult her Don't you pretend now? Do your best to scold him And let him die Mr. He, you misunderstood I always irritate me before sending a message. It was he who called me He scolded me a lot of bad things. I just sent a message to scold him. Mr. He You trust me. Xu Xinran is a duplicity People who can't act He framed me Xu Xinran has always been with me It's over. It's all over for me Brother Deling, Brother Han Xin He sent me abroad I don't want to go. I don't want to go. Han Sheng doesn't want to send you away He wants to get engaged to Xu Xinyuan Brother Jin, can you help me? Just for my brother's sake Ok, I'll help you. Brother Jin thank you Brother Changjing, I want to answer the phone first Do you pay more attention to rest? Hello brother Miss Xia blames Mr. for stealing me You save me How is that possible? Brother Han Sheng, he is not such a person Miss Xia is real Mr. He is serious Did you do something? I send a message and I scold Xu Xinran. Mr. He saw it. It's stupid to be able to do this little thing well Brother Qian, you first Don't worry, I'll intercede with Brother Han Shen for you. I will contact you if there is any news. Ok, thanks Miss Xia. Since Qin An is already a prickly heat I can put the final value of this prickly heat Take advantage of Ansheng Keiga Don't you want to hold a second engagement party with Xu Xinran? I'd like to see if this engagement party is a success Miss Xu, the scars on your body are already very light Almost invisible Come every two months. I'll give you a little repair. Thank you, Dr. King You are an amazing doctor The genius doctor is too exaggerated The main thing is Mr. He for you Very generous Everything in the hospital is state-of-the-art Especially the scar removal artifact that treated you. There are only two in the world It was all brought over by Mr. He He has such good feelings for you. I got that scar to save him He's just guilty of paying to remove my scar It's not about feelings. Dr. Kim, I'm leaving first Invite you to dinner another day Xu Xinran, why are you here? Xu Xinran, you were only kicked out of the house by my dad What is that abandoned child proud of? Come here to do medical beauty But you do need to do more. After all, it's not good to be ugly and scare people Xu Xingran oops Take it easy Don't look crooked Xu Xinran Dad asked me to ask you about the cooperation with He's Group Did you mention it to He Hansheng? That's your dad? It's not mine. If you want to cooperate with He's Group, let him go to He Hansheng It's no use looking for me What is Xu Xinran pretending to be? I'll test you You really put it on He Hansheng's engagement party with you has been cancelled Are you still related to He Hansheng? Left on the day of the engagement Are you ashamed? Why do you still have the face to stay in the imperial capital? What if I were you? I would have killed myself with a piece of tofu Why should I hit He Hansheng and I cancelled the engagement party We just broke up The conversation between the couple broke down Isn't it normal to cancel an engagement party and break up? At least He Hansheng and I have an open name and a surname Unlike your junior and senior, this is too much to be on the table. You bitch I'll split with you twice Be careful of high heels and sprained feet. Ah! Zhang Xue, you just turned your face to the ground The filling you typed is crooked. You bitch Xiaoxue, let me ask you Did you show up at Zunhuang Entertainment Club three years ago? None of your business If you had given me the medicine in the first place You don't take your whole medicine. What is the matter with you how He Hansheng thinks it's your medicine Xu Xinran Don't you think you're pathetic? Even I know you're not someone who can drug He Hansheng didn't believe it Tell me about it. You took out your heart, are you still there? Yes I loved the wrong person at the beginning But if your face is crooked, you can't recover it. You're asymmetrical now. Hurry up and fix it Ah! I have a blind date with the youngest son next door this afternoon Ah! You scared me to death! You didn't leave? I didn't accompany you to dinner yesterday. Go today. Hello brother qiang Oh yeah. Oh, I see. I'll be right there. Brother Haishan has something to do with me Eat it yourself Is he important? What is the matter with you It's something related to my studies I don't want to be harsh anymore. And don't you forget who I'm being tough for If it weren't for blocking that knife for you I would have graduated long ago Brother Huashan, thank you so much today. If it weren't for you I missed the competition registration I'll treat you to dinner. You're welcome. By the way. You have to think carefully about what the teacher said. Glad you are the teacher's favorite pupil How about a year of recuperation? Have you considered studying abroad? Teachers now have extra names Well, I can give it to you. Oh, I see. I'll think about it. It's getting late. Let's go eat. I know a very good western restaurant. I guarantee that Brother Huanshan will like it after eating it. Really. Hmm. Since you said so It must be my loss if I don't go. Come on, take me to see the world Princess, please get in the car Brother Han Chuan didn't expect your internet speed to be so fast Can't you see it? I'm an antique in your eyes Although I don't often brush video software But I have to brush too I also want to understand the way young people think In order to get close to the people I want to get close to Brother Huaqiang, get in the car Otherwise, the third sister should queue up OK Help Huai Chuan seems to like me You are such a nerd You won't see it until today Shen Huachao likes you, right? I already saw it Wait until I get married with He Han Clean your heart Haishan, have you been here before? Nope. I'm not interested in western food But the taste here is really good You must try it. Since the younger sister strongly recommends it Then I must try it If I get addicted Then you can also be my meal partner often Of course no problem. Since you are a regular customer Come and help me The steaks here are delicious. Then I'll order this for you. Listen to you Brother Han Shan is so gentle Unlike He Hansheng, who will always have a straight face Am I crazy? I'm actually comparing He Hansheng and Huaichuan Ge Hello Haishan, this foie gras is delicious Strongly recommend You must try it. Yeah, it's delicious. The taste is delicate and silky and great Oh, you will not be wrong if I recommend it. Yunting, look at the reason why someone took me to dinner Right? i I heard that Xu Xinran and your brother's engagement party has been cancelled This engagement party has been cancelled Then is your brother and Xu Xinran? They broke up. break up My brother and Xu Xian didn't break up I didn't break up. What the hell is going on? Hello Ge Xu Xian cuckolded you Brother Han Sheng is so nice The meal is ready, let's eat together No, nothing else. No appetite But didn't we agree to have dinner together tonight? I promise to cuckold you OK I'll do it myself Why didn't you answer my call? Brother Xu Xu saw your phone. He didn't answer on purpose Xu Xingshan has a kind Huancheng brother, thank you for taking me home You should have treated me to such a delicious meal It's my responsibility to send you home Then Huancheng brother is home and send me a message. Look, your phone has to be turned on. Bye when you get home Harrison, are you crazy? He Hansheng, are you crazy? What do you want this phone for? Didn't answer the phone No text messages You can't stand being angry You didn't answer my call before Isn't it common to not reply to my messages? If I do this, you will be broken. I'm not afraid either Tell you frankly I just don't want to answer your phone. I don't want to reply to your message. You want to break up with me? Do you want to fall in love with your wild man? I'll tell you what. Impossible will never break up with you What are you doing? The matter of the local wedding banquet Sorry. I will marry you. I'll also give you a more discreet position I won't marry you. Never. Sir himself Dinner is ready No more cigarettes. Thank you aunt It's my problem to block you Remember to answer my phone in the future information back Are you eating? I see. I'll be right there. Let the vice president go about the business trip I don't have time. Oh, right. Squeeze out my time for the next month What's so important? I want to get engaged I have something to do Going out Pick you up for dinner tonight No need to refuse Grandma, Mr. He didn't hit you yesterday, did he? Don't worry without Sister Chen. I have thought about Huaishan brother's study abroad, I will go He bullied you yesterday. No, I want to study abroad. Please help me with the formalities. The sooner the better. Let the United States prepare as soon as possible I want to eat seafood tonight Just go to Mansion 8 OK. I'll have someone reserve a table. Send someone to pick me up then. I have a surprise for you I'll pick you up myself You cunt Don't you want to surprise He Hansheng? Then I'll spoil the surprise Hey, brother Han Sheng My chest hurts. Can you come and see me? Call Tang Jing when you are sick I'm not a doctor Brother Han Sheng Do you want me? Do you hate me? I don't hate it. I don't care either It's just that I have my own job I also have my own life I can't keep revolving around you. Did Xu Xinran say something to you? You chose Xu Xinran between me and Xu Xinran Really? Yes, I have asked Hu Special to call Kong Jing Tang Jing will come back to find me soon I don't want Tang Jing I just want you Ahhh Ball ball ball Xiaoxiao, you have enough to eat Drink seawater with confidence I don't want it. I just drink seawater. I just want you Brother Tang Jing I'm hungry. Shall we go eat? Mansion 8 Let's go eat seafood, shall we? Ok ok Wait a minute. I'll clean up I can't go out like this. Don't don't don't don't go up don't go up don't go up come out He Hansheng actually had time to pick me up for dinner This is outrageous. Could it be that Xia Qingqing, the lethality of this white moonlight is not enough Fortunately, I have double preparations. I don't believe I can't stimulate this crazy woman Xia Qiqi Qingqing was in a bad mood and asked me to bring her to dinner I remember you before Just when Qingqing came here I didn't expect Xu Xinran to come in too It was a beautiful encounter. Han Sheng, please sit down and eat together lively at most Brother Han Sheng I'm sorry. I trespassed I didn't expect you to date Xu Xian here you Don't be angry with me, okay? I'm not mad. Brother Han Sheng Hey ball ball ball Han Sheng Qingqing's body can't melt Are you going to watch him die? You know Han Sheng Qingqing's body He can't take it Is Xia Ming in such a hurry for relatives? If something happened to him How do you explain to Xia Ming? Xia Qingqing fell Did Xu Xinran see it? Recognize reality Where there is family You will never be He Hansheng's first choice What you said is really interesting. Why did He Hansheng treat Xia Qingqing like this? Don't you know? Is it because of Xia Qingqing? Or because of Xia Ming? For whatever reason You have to know You will never compare to Qingqing If you are funny Leave as soon as possible Yes I'm really not as good as Xia Qingqing It weighs heavily in He Hansheng's heart But the precious value exchanged for his brother's life What is there to be proud of? I've always wanted to know Xia Ming's death Are you more sad or Xia Qingqing more sad? It's so beautiful It's for you. It's for me. There's no one else around. No, for whom? It's a surprise I was surprised to give you a gift. Yeah you seem It's been two or three days since you gave me a gift, right? In the past, you would ask your assistant to give me gifts regularly. But for the past two years, you seem to have forgotten I'm not looking forward to receiving your gift for a long time. You go in first I'll make a phone call. Xu Xinran said that he has not received a gift in recent years You can check the funds for these gifts. Where did you go? What a coincidence! Are you coming here to eat too? Yes, I came with He Ansheng He's outside on the phone. Excuse me? This is where Han Sheng has always brought me So I just sit here habitually I didn't expect Brother Han Sheng to date you today Will I disturb your meal? Will not Since you are here Then let's eat together It's so crowded. That's very nice. I really enjoy eating with you It's just that every time I show up You don't seem too happy. Hallucinations are definitely hallucinations You look at me with sincerity Where does it show that I am not happy? I'm so happy. What's wrong with you? Haisheng brother Don't go I beg you don't go My fault I really know I was wrong Haisheng brother Han Sheng Qingqing is in a bad mood Can't provoke her anymore You saw what happened today. Do you really want to kill her? Hear you say that I sent her to the doctor Sorry. I was abrupt Tang Jing You are just a doctor Do your job well Don't worry about it Why was Xia Qingqing there today? Why did it happen to be that restaurant? Some things I don't say Doesn't mean I don't know I warn you Stop accompanying Xia Qingqing Do those little tricks behind my back Otherwise, you know the consequences. Mr. He It's my prison No, Mr. He, no No. Brother Han Sheng, I love you Qingqing still seems to be serious this time once Why in the world? I'm really not as good as Xu Xinran Why did Brother Han Sheng choose him over me? If you had left It's because He Hansheng hit it Qingqing can't push too hard Where are you? Xu Xinran is over there He Hansheng can only choose one Oh, I see. Brother Tang Jing I want to be alone Have a good rest. Don't think too much. You want to rob me of Han Having a brother is not enough Miss Xia, Mr. He and Xu Xingran will be in three days Resume the engagement Hello Miss Qian Gexia Help me! You have to help me! Money, don't worry. You speak slowly What's going on? I have been Mr. He has always asked me to celebrate various anniversaries Buy a gift for Xu Qingzhan I bought it but I didn't give it to him. Qin'an Today, I had dinner with Brother Han Sheng and the others. During this period, Xu Xinran said that he wanted a necklace He also said that Han Sheng's brother has been Never gave him a gift I knew it must be Xu Xinran, this bitch is noble If not for him I hid this for two years It's all fine. How could it be poked out? Now let me pay it back. Where can I get the money? I've already lost it all In fact, Brother Han Sheng said that you have been with him for so long Or his direct junior He wants to give you a chance. But that's it. But Xu Xinran doesn't want to? You know Brother Han Sheng because of the engagement party I feel guilty about Xu Xinran I want to do it again for him But Xu Xinran took Qiao and said he wouldn't deal with you. He won't hold engagement parties Their engagement party seems to be in three days Bitch he won't make me feel better He also wants to have a good time I want to get engaged to Mr. He I won't let him dream Hello Give me a box of birth control pills Check out over there Still buying birth control pills He Ansheng asked you to carry his child Xia Bingbing Xia Qingqing's half-sister Why is she here? There's no way He Hansheng won't let me give birth I think she probably wants Xia Qingqing to give birth Ran Ran, you are He Lansheng's girlfriend Fiancee, you should have come forward Xia Qingqing He is just a mistress who can't get on the table. He Hansheng and I have cancelled our engagement Besides, it took so long I'm tired too I'm going to give up. You can't give up! He Hansheng doesn't like Xia Qingqing's It's because of Xia Ming's death He has special care for Xia Qingqing Since he gave you the identity of your girlfriend That must be your approval. If you give up Isn't it solemn Xia Anqing's arms? There is no way He Hansheng and I were wrong from the beginning And you know I slept with He Hansheng Everyone thinks I drugged him Even He Hansheng thinks so He always thought I was a schemer He would do anything to sleep How could he marry me? The engagement party is just to give me an experience If you were happy in the first place Will the high heels end? It really is you Plan in a week Keep you He's not in the hospital today. Accompany Xia Qingqing Here it comes. Take a look. What's there to see? Are you not happy? Why should I be happy? come Pick a color you like. You send flowers and I want to choose What do you think this is? What is this? I don't understand, please explain it to me. This is the overall layout of our engagement party. Come and see This flower hole It was placed at the entrance to our engagement party The flowers you picked just now are on this one. And what does the table at our engagement party mean? What style of tableware is used? And which photo of us is used on the big screen? And all the decorations I don't want to marry you. I don't want to marry him. You said you didn't want to marry me Then why did you drug me? Blocked the knife for me It's been bothering me for so many years Now you're telling me you don't want to marry me Yeah, I've been pestering you for so many years. Get in your way Is it because I like you? He doesn't care if you believe it or not. Even if you are stabbed like a hedgehog in front of me now I won't come forward As for the drug This is me. Tell you one last time I've never done anything like this. OK I believe you. I said something wrong, sorry. You didn't say anything wrong. Because in your heart And I was one of those people. To get your scheming woman I don't care about these things at all Don't care Or say You already assume in your heart that I did this. You might as well tell me directly Say you don't believe me What are you pretending to be tolerant here? OK You say no. Show evidence for evidence? You bastard So you can't show any evidence at all No matter what the truth is I wouldn't care. I hope you don't mind either. If you care about what other people think I'll clarify it for you. Are you not angry? terrestrial marine I will think of you What do you want? He Hansheng, if I had given you the medicine in the first place I can't take it You don't want to die You don't know. You are a crow's mouth What should I do if I get struck by lightning? That's what I mean. He Ansheng You don't want evidence I will punish you for the evidence in your mobile phone. you Brother Han Sheng Why don't you ask him for a glass of water? Xu Xiran It's really not you Open the door slowly Mr. He passed out Sister Chen, go and ask the security to take him to the hospital Aren't you going? I'm not a doctor It's useless to go Go and call It's too late, he was hurt to death by me Strange stomach pain caused by this mood swing You say you're a person who never breaks down every day The mood swings too much roll Angry? Let me guess. Is it because of Xu Xin? I told you so. You are so soft-hearted to others like this Sooner or later you will regret it Do you see the same? shut up Oh, Han Sheng! This girl is for love Need to be cared for People have paid you pure and hot Unprecedented love What did you do to her? This guy gets tired Not to mention 7 years Think about you. Good morning miss xu Mr. Chen, what's the situation? You'd better ask Mr. He where you are Hey What's up? Hey Not you what are you doing Don't touch me, Miss Xu Is this Mr. He's order? Oops, He Hansheng What do you want? The day after tomorrow we are engaged They are serving you to try on these clothes, aren't they? He Hansheng, are you sick? We've all broken up What engagement You want to get engaged You go to Xia Qingqing Leave me alone. Xia Qingqing I will send him abroad He will not be a barrier between us You must let him try these things out today Yes My company has something else to do Go first, He Haisheng, hey Go up Have something to say Don't take my clothes off Damn He Hansheng Trying to force me to get engaged is impossible Miss Xu, please stay in the house Before the engagement party Please don't leave So you want to put me under house arrest? Please don't embarrass me. Ran Ran what's going on I see He Hansheng posted an invitation to your engagement party Why didn't I hear about it the day after tomorrow? I just found out too You agree? Oh no Don't fall into the fire pit of He Hansheng again I don't agree. But He Hansheng doesn't care if I agree or not And now I have a whole bunch of bodyguards watching me Lock me in the villa Don't let me out until Ding Hongyan arrives I went to He Hansheng and even engaged in imprisonment So shameless Where are you now? I'll take someone to rescue you Forget it, don't He Hansheng go crazy Just let him send it. Don't you want to join in? Add trouble Anyway, I have agreed to study abroad I'm leaving in two days. slowly Did you go to study abroad because He Hansheng forced you? i I don't want to lie to you either. He Hansheng does have a big reason I'm in China, he can really make a difference Find it for me. Why not go abroad and hide? Just go out and play Then we won't be able to see each other for a long time. How can you find me? Let's play together Mr. He This is the information you asked us to investigate yesterday. The employee in charge of the transfer is a temporary worker. The cancer patient has been dead for more than two years This is the result of your investigation. It's been too long Many clues can't be found now Haisheng is not good Alert ran away We've all arrived at the airport. He said he had to go to the bathroom People disappear What do you eat Hurry up and find someone to find it for me And you go check it for me. Check things out What do you mean? Hey, what's going on? I don't know. Qin An sent it to me. Did he say anything else? Didn't reply to me Ok ok I know I'll be there right now. Sister, where is this? What are you doing? green Don't worry, I won't hurt you. You just need to cooperate with me obediently. Didn't we agree to be together, sorry, Xinran? Why did you kidnap me? Me? Of course I'm going to torture him I'll send him your photo first. Let him go first question Tomorrow I will let He Hansheng bring hallucinations What do they think when you say it? He Hansheng Sister, I will cooperate with you. I also want Xu Xinran to die You are funded by me You know me. I totally trust you. green Because of your support, I got out of the mountain And you know what? When I first laid eyes on you You are like a fairy from the sky My goddess Qingqing I have been loving you silently Save him Didn't Qin An send you a message? Nope. Did you check it? The money is now there Where? You wouldn't do anything to the money, would you? You didn't pay for me, did you? Don't, don't Don't be then Put the crime of Xia Qingqing's kidnapping on me I didn't do anything. I didn't ask you to do anything either. You said before that I didn't give you a gift. In fact, I give money away every festival. Then don't let him pay it back He must have lost all his money long ago. He's a gambler. You push him so hard He must be in a hurry. How did you know he was a gambler? I once went to a bar with Lu Sisi for a drink Met him at the door of the box, where he was being collected for debt Forced to pay back Lu Sisi has a friend who knows the status of the case Said he was a private gambler And lost a lot of money You haven't received my gift in the past two years. Don't you think it's strange? Why don't you ask me? What did I ask you? If you don't send it, I'm still chasing it. Besides, I don't like your gift. It doesn't matter if you send it or not. Yes, yes! I was wrong. Well, it's your fault that Xia Qingqing was kidnapped But don't blame me for everything This really has nothing to do with you Don't worry about it. Go take a break Qin An, you beast What did you do to Qingqing? You ungrateful white-eyed wolf Qingqing funded you And that's how you repay him. You bastard He Ansheng How about exchanging Xu Xinran for Xia Qingqing? What does this have to do with me? He Hansheng is the one who asked you for money. He Hansheng is also the one who wants to kill you You find him, you ask him to change You kill him It's none of my business. We have no enmity I won't exchange Xu Xinran for Qingqing Qin An, if you let Qingqing go now I can let go of the past Change? Han Shaoqingqing is tired So torturous He hurt Qingqing Xu Xinran, it doesn't matter. Return Qingqing first and then think of a way Save Xu Xinran I'm not going. Xu Xinran, why are you so selfish? I just let you change to Qingqing. I didn't let you die Since it won't die Then what's the use of asking me to replace Qingqing? Besides, I heard that Xia Qingqing was kidnapped It seems to be because the airport escaped What's the matter? You can't take care of it, right? So the culprit behind Xia Qingqing's kidnapping is you Don't drag me into the water Han Ansheng, what do you say? change or not change Qin An, fuck you Qingqing supports you And you did this to him? Are you still a fucking human? He Hansheng, what do you think? I still have three people here to change. Xu Xuxia Xu Xuxia Xu Xuxia Xu Xian Xia Lan, don't worry. I have made all the preparations. It won't happen to you. Xu Xinran He Hansheng really makes me sick Auntie won't play with you anymore Xu Xinran, I said I won't let anything happen to you. Why don't you believe me? You just said you wouldn't take my words How can I believe you? Catch him Beware of lightning strikes Get in the car, the money has already sent me the location Take it now and change the machine gun He Hansheng, I don't want to You know. My crow's mouth can only be used once a day I can't protect myself anymore Don't worry, nothing will happen to you this time. I hit it once. I'll settle the bill for you later. OK, as long as you light the gun Everything comes to me Get in the car! Send me the address. I'll drive myself I promise you're okay, trust me. Don't change me if I'm fine You really can't catch Qin An But sooner or later But you chose to sacrifice me So don't tell me anything to make me believe you. Don't you think it's funny green I have always loved you I may not be able to come back this time. Just satisfy my last bit of belief Don't worry, I'll dye it for you a hundredfold. I made her disappear from this world In this way, He Ansheng is yours. Sister, you already treat me like this You must help me. We must make Xu Xinyan disappear Ok I will do it You get off the bus with Xu Xinran Give Xu Xinran to Tang Jing Let him put Xu Xinran in his car Are you sure you want to hand me over to Tang Jing? Don't worry, I'm here. Didn't you bring me to my current situation? I'm not at ease with you. My own Xu Yiran You bastard Follow me closely No errands Yes, sir. Wait a minute. This bitch People ran away How did you do it? How can someone run away? Hurry up and chase him. His leg is injured and he can't run far. He won't get far. We are in the dark How do I find it? Send me the location. Let people go together Everyone look for it separately Must find I'll give you more money. Tang Jian hit his leg He won't get far. Go in and search I'll add 100,000 commission for each of you Who found me 100,000 Here's a down payment. search yes The drone tracked it here Your woman has run into the forest Four of them followed in. Go in and find it Please, there are obvious traces here. chase Xu Xin, I want to see where else you can run I'd like to see where else you can run Hello. I don't think I provoked you. Where did your hostility towards me come from? Is it because of Xia Qingqing? That's right, you didn't provoke me. I don't like you because of Miss Xia But there's another reason, and that's that. Xu Xinran, you are really unpopular. Who are you? You are also worthy of He Hansheng You are also worthy of robbing Miss Xia Who has welcomed you in the imperial capital for so many years? Do you want some face? What does any of this have to do with you? And you keep saying that you are for Xia Qingqing In the end, you didn't force her She let me sleep I would have died for her Anyway, I've already offended He Haisheng I didn't want to get away with it As for you, you must die Ah! You bitch I'm going to cut you into eight pieces Catch him for me Qin An, I won't play with you anymore, bye. Xu Xiran goes back He Han is crazy now It's so beautiful, you're here watching me find it He Hansheng If there is an afterlife Please let me go Loving you is too tiring Director Xu Director Xu Wake up, Director Xu I didn't expect it to be the last moment of my life What I think of and dream of is still you He Hansheng I never want to see you again Xu Xinran Xu Xinran Mr. He Turn around. Give me the clothes. Let's go No. Hey Was this bitten by a venomous snake? Yes, I have dealt with it urgently. But he has a fever. Fever after being bitten by a venomous snake normal situation I think he's a little weak right now I'll just give him some nutrient solution and serum Just take good care of your body next The situation on Xia Qingqing's side is also very bad. Would you like to go and see her? Brother Wang Jing Qingqing, I'm going abroad Why is that? No. Why? The treatment abroad is better Miss Liu, would you like to go abroad with me? i I respect your choice. But I may not be able to take care of you in the future You have to be careful. Once brother green I left, and I looked at you before I was in danger My that I miss you. Qingqing is really leaving this time, take care. You're leaving in a second. I hate him Mr. Tang Jing We suspect you are involved in a kidnapping Please come with us. It hurts. I'm not dead. I remember He Hansheng seemed to have jumped with me awake Eat something when you wake up Why did you jump? Eat slowly, no one will rob you. At that time, the money and the two men took out their knives It's in their hands. What can I do well? Why don't you procrastinate a little longer? You should believe me. He Hansheng, do you think you are worthy of my trust? Why would I trust someone who would put me at risk? I said you have 0 trust in me. Why should I gamble? And you're not worth the gamble I'm so unworthy of your trust He Hansheng Let me ask you a question. You ask IF I said if I was kidnapped by Qin An Qin An asked you to exchange Xia Qingqing for me Will you change it? Take a rest first I'll go out for a while Hey, stop drinking What's wrong with you? He asked me. If I were to exchange Xia Qingqing for him Would you like to Shit It's really a question of death. What did you say? You won't even Lie to him Coax him Neither I mean I'm willing to coax him But the words reached the throat and couldn't be spoken You won't exchange Xia Qingqing for Xu Xin Xu Xin knew this I will not exchange Xia Qingqing for Xu Xin It's because I know he has the ability to protect himself But Xia Qingqing did not If he goes, he can only be slaughtered by others Women don't think that. You think he can protect himself? That's just what you think This weak woman In front of a group of vicious robbers Brain and action are not enough Hey This woman's strength is inherently weaker than that of a man You think she can protect herself? What if she can't? Ah, Han Sheng! You have to admit When you are facing Xu Xinran You can be calm Be sane But when you face Xia Qingqing You can't be calm Can't be sensible tell the truth If it was Xia Qingqing who fell off the cliff that day I'm not going to save him. What! You said you don't have any feelings for Xia Qingqing? Nope. What about Xu Xinran? Do you like him? It turned out to be the doll machine you ordered when you were a child If you agree We can talk about this. You just don't want to Just pretend it didn't happen. Grandpa gave me two years to test him What do you mean? If he's not bothered, no problem. I like it. Xia Qingqing, didn't you know to knock before entering the door? The dog ate the sauce Xu Xin'an, what did you do? Why is Han Sheng ignoring me? Did you say something to him? He ignores you Is it because what you do is not good enough? Was it not gentle enough to annoy him? Impossible Brother Han Sheng He dotes on me. You must be crazy Did you say something to him? He doesn't see you. Probably because you are dirty What do you mean? You may not know it yet What about Qin An? See you messing with his little video I saw it too. Tang Jing also saw it He ignores you Maybe it's the diaphragm It won't happen. Money he won't You are talking nonsense, you dare to talk nonsense You know if it's true or not. And I have the video. Do you want to send it to you? Xie Planet tells you You deserve it. I want to collude with my lover to frame me Play yourself in and smash it You said if I destroyed you Will Brother Han Sheng settle accounts with me? What do you want? If you ruin my face You can't save your own face. Do you believe it or not? I don't believe it. Ah! Ah! Strange if it is sulfuric acid His background must be corroded, right? It's just plain liquid. I have endured you for a long time I'm going to kill you today Xu Xinran What are you doing? What are you doing? Ah! Ah! Ah ah biological brother I didn't mean to make Xinya suffer either I came to see her specially Apologize to her. And she beat me up without saying a word Xinxin is also innocent in this matter You shouldn't be mad at her You apologize to her. He Hansheng, are you crazy? Brother Han Sheng Don't you believe me? OK, then I'll prove it to you. Can you trust me now? that What are you still doing? Hurry up and take him back to the ward You're not even thinking about me apologizing to him, are you? I'll take him back to the ward first I'll come to you later. Go quickly. By the way, my quilt is wet You can ask the nurse to send me a new quilt today Sisi Are you all right? It's okay, I can't die I heard you jumped off a cliff. Am I fine? I was scared to death when I heard about it. Who is that congratulatory letter? He actually exchanged you for Xia Qingqing Was his conscience eaten by a dog? He Hansheng is a dog man For Xia Qingqing, she became a madman I used to be blind Did he hear? Just hear it Don't tell the truth Are you really planning on studying abroad? I don't want to either. But you also saw He Hansheng is a jerk Xia Qingqing is also enthusiastic about doing things This time I got lucky and saved my life. What about next time? I heard He Hansheng jumped off a cliff for you Do you really believe it? Who is He Hansheng? He would jump off a cliff for me If he could really jump off a cliff for me He can still trade me Xia Qingqing contradicts herself So he didn't jump? It's a rumor that he did jump But what about this problem? And I thought about it. I think it might have been when I jumped off the cliff And he catches up. Then I stepped on the air Yeah, that's it. He Hansheng, that dog man He's a refined egoist Said he jumped off a cliff for you I don't believe it It's who believes who is a fool sister Don't worry about the dog man Happy, we will go to dinner when you are out of the hospital. Then I'll play with you when you go abroad. Hmm It's getting late I should go home. Take care, man. Well, let's go. Go bye Let's go! Why are you back? OK My Phone No, thank me. Dr. Xu You don't really take me for an errand boy, do you? I think it's true for you Too overqualified You can totally ask others to give you Xu Xinran. Give you a step You have to go down or you won't have a chance Hum hum hum Hello Hello, is this Miss Xu Xinran Xu? Ah, it's me. Who are you? Ah, it's like this. Miss Xu, I found your marriage certificate Ah! Don't explain Explain what? Telephone What phone number? Are you talking about the marriage certificate just now? You haven't received a fraudulent call since you were a child, have you? Who would use a marriage license to defraud? How would I know? Then what's your business? All troops attack Thanks. Don't you take it apart and see? Busy, you open it. Do you like it? Like like So? Did you promise me to propose? Let's find some time to get the certificate. Ah what Why did you suddenly propose to me? Because I got your hint. When did I hint at you? Do you think I'm stupid? How can there be The scam call starts with picking up the marriage certificate. Don't you just say that because you want me to propose to you? You got such a cryptic hint Admire, really admire So beautiful Wow What a big one! Xu Xinran got married With who? With you? Did you two quietly get the certificate? I don't know. He said it was a scam call, do you believe it? I have never heard of this kind of scam call. Oh, I see. Han Sheng, you are such a wooden head. Xu Xin, this is implying you Do you understand? Know what? Get married, Xu Xin just hinted that you are getting married Why can't you even feel this? You think about it Did Xu Xinran answer the phone in front of you? Yes, did he not respond? Uh, yeah. He told you it was a scam call Humph That's right. Xu Xinran is implying that you are getting married Come to think of it, the two of you didn't make it to two engagement parties He must be angry. So? Xu Xinran is hinting that you should not hold an engagement party Get married directly Wow What a big one Such a big one. Sold it just in time for me to go abroad as a tuition fee It is also the youth loss fee He Hansheng has given me over the years Now that you agreed to my marriage proposal It doesn't matter what happened before Never mind Still you are the most sensible It's getting late You rest early I'll take you home when you're done hanging the water tomorrow Wait here for another second and I'm going to throw up Can you find a channel to sell it? That big? You bought it. He Hansheng sent it. He proposed to me. No. What is he doing now? What do you mean? Not the right size. He proposed I actually gave you a ring that doesn't fit the size. I didn't take it seriously Are you serious? This ring is so big. It should sell for a lot of money Find me a channel You are also a talent Wait, I'll find you an object now. Hey wait wait Don't ask I'll leave you the ring. You can sell it when I'm gone. I sentenced Ask Xiao Xing He Hansheng knows He went crazy again. You reminded me Can't sell domestically. You leave the ring I will find resources for you. Sell abroad I'll transfer the money to your account then. Hey, your sister. Oh, dear. Han Sheng proposed to me just now. This is the engagement ring he gave me In fact, I am very concerned about him taking me for you I don't want to say yes at all But he just knelt on the ground I cried and repented, saying that I will only love me in the future He also said that he has always regarded you as his sister If I don't like it I will keep my distance from you Well, what could I do? I can only be soft-hearted Hey, this ring is so big and beautiful. At least 10 carats That's tens of millions Han Sheng really loves me Hahahaha cool Han Sheng proposed to me just now. This is the engagement ring he gave me Xia Qingqing, this is the hospital Not your home Please keep quiet and basic Han Sheng didn't propose to Xu Xinya, did he? The ring in this video was also bought by Xu Xinya herself. Right? He Hansheng and Xu Xinran are unmarried couples It is normal for him to propose to Xu Xinran And it is impossible that Xu Xinran bought that ring. Because this ring is called the heart of true love. That's the representative of Mrs. He's family There is only one in the world Han Sheng will not propose to him He's just guilty Xia Qingqing Your brother was lost to save He Hansheng back then Life Over the years He's always been guilty I believe you should have felt it He feels more guilty towards you than he does towards Xu Longer than Xu Xinxin But why didn't he give you this ring? That's not true. Doesn't he want to? It doesn't work like that. It's not because you don't deserve it It doesn't work like that. Brother Haisheng likes me He is special to me Dream on. Miss, you were kidnapped by Qin An You know exactly what happened. The video police have it all. Just based on this You can't get into He's house I was forced. Maybe you were forced by Qin An But you were kidnapped by Qin An Is it collusion or coercion? You and Qin An both know very well And Don't go crazy in the hospital Ahhh Are these 3 bottles of water finished today? You can leave the hospital What about after going home? Need rest Oh, right. Remember to drink plenty of water Toxins need to be eliminated. Thanks. Didn't you wear the ring He Hansheng gave you? In the drawer You put such a valuable thing in the drawer? I have to wear such a precious thing on my hands It really is the heart of true love What is true love? What about this ring? It's called true love. It is the representative of the future wife of the He family He chose to give you this ring. It seems that I really want to marry you This ring? Every new owner Will change the ring setting Will it be engraved with the new owner's initials in the ring setting? You can see if your initials are in it. Is it written in your name? It is indeed my name. I'm so happy and excited Hey, okay, okay. Say no more. I understand the joy and excitement in your heart at this moment You Just get ready to meet the bright future of Mrs. He Bright future Yes! Bright brilliant future Come and have more Isn't He Hansheng's future beautiful and glorious? Okay, I won't tell you I have other patients Remember to ring the bell if you need anything. Hey Remember to keep it safe. That's the He family heirloom Don't worry. I will definitely sell the He family heirloom for a good price Are you finished with the water? Put a little I can't pick you up today Oh, I see. Go ahead. I'll go back to have dinner with you tonight I'm hanging up now. Brother Han Sheng promised to pick you up and discharge you from the hospital But he can't go. Because ah he's taking me to worship my brother Xu Xinran, if you have self-knowledge You should know He Hansheng will never let go of me Let me help you. Sea cucumber brother How about a few days ago? Attended an event I heard about you when I came back Later, I asked Sisi for your ward number. I'm coming over. Does it hurt? It doesn't hurt. But it hurts. Huashan brother Has the date for going abroad been fixed? It's settled. Saturday at 10:20 pm Then Brother Huashan will help me pack my luggage. I'll go directly to the airport to meet you Good idea. Brother Haishan Thank you for all this time. Let me treat you to dinner Sure! What do you feel like having? Well, why don't you have something light? I just got out of the hospital after all. Ah, I happen to know a good meal What about the food inside? All are medicated diet grade I'll take you there. There is such a store. Go Wait a minute. Come on. Brother Han Sheng Is that Xu Xinran in the car? Didn't you say you came to pick him up? Hello Have you finished hanging the water? It's already finished I've been discharged from the hospital. Take a taxi yourself My friend came to pick me up I went back with him Who's your friend? He Han said to pay attention to the tone of your voice You said you were coming to pick me up And you didn't have time to stand me up. I didn't ask you for it. What are you doing? I have understanding and respect for you again. So don't try me like a prisoner What right do you have to be confident? Would you like a candy? I am not a child anymore. Why give me candy Because eating candy makes you happy. I'm not unhappy. You broke up with He Hansheng Then you went abroad to study because of him? It's because of him Because he's crazy I have to go. Cherish life Stay away from the madman How do you know to come back? I thought you would spend the night at Xia Qingqing's place today Today is Xia Ming's death day I accompanied him to worship Xia Ming OK Today is Xia Ming Memorial Day I understand you accompany Xia Qingqing excusable You went to accompany her again on my birthday, and I understand. It's OK for you to coax her on the anniversary. You said come pick me up I forgive you for turning around to pick her up But He Hansheng I'm just an orphan girl I don't know anyone in the imperial capital You don't come to pick me up Can't I have someone pick me up? Xia Qingqing is just my sister She is not well I took care of Xia Ming for her There is no affair between us Why do you care so much? Xia Qingqing is just your sister Then she is just my Huai Chuan brother I have no personal feelings for her I'm just purely grateful to her Why are you so angry? That's different. It's really different. You are on call to Xia Qingqing I just had a meal with Brother Huanshan I'm so at a loss. Oh, my favorite star is playing again. I'll ask Brother Huai Chun to accompany me next time Hello, you are busy. I know, I understand. Xu Xinran Oops I'm listening Don't yell so loud Director Xu of Shaolin You must mess with me, right? He Hansheng never wanted to make trouble with you There are more of these things today What do you want to do with Xia Qingqing in the future? I would immediately find a man to accompany me You are in the first year of junior high school I do fifteen Endure it If you can't bear it, you will leave You won't have this chance He Haisheng's kitchen is on fire Xu Xinran, what do you want to do? Just to give you a warning This time it's a house on fire Next time, it might be your commercial building. Xu Xinran, are you crazy? What do you want? What do you want? He Hansheng was never what I wanted But what do you want People can't be too cheap You can't be both demon and demon How are you right I'll do it to you. You don't care about me. I don't care about you either. My attitude is to advocate a breakup The road faces the sky Go side by side If you don't Just hold it in for me There will be countless times like this today I still say that Endure it If you can't bear it, leave Tell me. What's going on? It was fine yesterday Why did this break up again today? I didn't pick up Xu Xinran What did I accompany Xia Xinxin to sweep the grave? He Hanshang, is your brain sick? He has already said For the last time. The Last Time How many times has he said that for the last time? When won't it be the last time? Yes I'm taking care of Xia Qi a little more But why does he care so much? I have promised to marry her I already proposed to him. What else is he thinking about? Yes. Are you? Yes, Xia Qingqing It's just a special care The same thing. What about Xu Xinran? It was just a meal with his Huai Chuan brother Look at the stars. Look at the moon. under the moon before the flower Can't you be more generous? You go and help me call Xu Xinya over I need to talk to her. What do you want to say? You don't need to care about Xia Qingqing. He has promised me. Today is the last time And he is already Materials for going abroad I will stay for another month at most. He will leave I don't believe it. What I said is true. He Ansheng You know he's been like this many times. Why should I trust a repeat offender? And a dishonest you? You let me down not once or twice It was seven years. OK Whether he goes or not From Now On I mean every word I say Fine. I'll give you one more chance. In three days. In three days. Anytime Between me and Xia Qingqing You must choose me firmly How about I forgive you? OK Help him choose a dress It's Mr. He and Miss Xu What are your requirements for the dress? Either way. There is a fishtail skirt in the store that suits your temperament very well. This dress is called Mermaid Love. It was designed by the famous designer Jack There are only two in the world What about the other one? In the hands of the British royal princess There is another one. There it is. Just this one. Very well, Mr. He and Miss Xu. Would you like to have a try? No, nothing else. Anyway, I'm leaving tonight. Please wrap it up for me OK, thank you Mr. He and Miss Xu for your support. I wish you a happy life. Miss Xia The day after tomorrow, Mr. He will take Miss Xu to the reception Choosing a dress Take a picture of Xu Xinran's dress for me. I have a big surprise for you It must be a surprise. You are beautiful today Brother Han Sheng, am I beautiful? It's beautiful. I am beautiful, I know. Brother Han Sheng OK Isn't this mermaid love? It is said that there are only two pieces. One piece is treasured by a foreign princess Another one fell to the Empire So which one of you is really wearing it? Do you really need to ask? This one on Xia Qingqing is compared with this one on Xu Xinran The obvious difference is not one or two levels. Besides, Xu Xinran Standing next to He Hansheng She is He Hansheng's girlfriend Will she wear a fake one? Ansheng brother What I'm wearing is real I'll replace it. I'll change it myself Not you Here are I have spare dresses in my lounge You go change it What if I don't change it? good boy Don't make trouble Since you want to make trouble Then make it bigger It's boring to play small Okay? Xu Xinren, how dare you hit Brother Han Sheng? Why did you hit him? Hit and hit What if you hit You dog men are such a scumbag Lock it up Don't come to harm me Xu Xinran Brother Han Sheng green Doctor He, do you really care about Qingqing? You promised my brother Qingqing was hurt because of you Ruyi left today It's betrayal of my brother This is the clothes for you. You'll change it later. Thank you, Your Majesty Hello, the phone you dialed is turned off. Going abroad What mentality? It's unsettling. After all, it is the first time to go abroad But the adaptability is very strong, don't worry. Don't worry, I'll always be with you. I won't leave you alone. Thank you, Huashan Come on. Xu Ji Chang Mr. Xu, don't go Mr. He and Miss Xia have always been Dr. Tang before Dr. Tang knows the specific situation best You are doctors You don't know what's going on with him as a patient Why can't I find out if I vomit blood? This is Dr. Zhou I'm a Chinese medicine doctor. Since they can't see it Then let him try Doctor Zhou, please The patient is in good health There was no discomfort. He is weak I often say dizzy Vomiting blood anytime, anywhere That's normal. His body is indeed weaker than normal As for fainting and vomiting blood Doesn't happen often Will you be stimulated? No He was vomiting blood in front of a lot of people just now This is a deformity Not a humanoid So Xia Qingqing has been They're all pretending Chicken blood bag in mouth Mouth will spit at any time What you said is true. I'll prove it to you. You are pretending No, Brother Anren Let me explain. OK I just like you. I am not wrong It's not wrong to be a mistress There's nothing wrong with pretending to be sick There's nothing wrong with making trouble You hurt an innocent person in the name of love How dare you say you stink? He deserves it. Can't see Brother Han Sheng doesn't care at all Brother Han Sheng doesn't like it at all That's because he's cheap Conan He threatened Brother Han Sheng with the gift of life-saving grace Brother Han Sheng just got engaged to him He doesn't deserve it. That's enough! Who says I don't like him? Who said that? Who said that? Everyone knows you don't like Xu Xinran He Hansheng, I am so disappointed in you. Xu Xinran told me firmly You can't last three days I didn't believe it at the time Now see what you've done Who still believes that you like Xu Xinran? Who can't see the situation today? The one on Xia Qingqing is a high law You actually asked Xu Xinran to change it Your heart is so biased You trampled his dignity under your feet Who still believes you like him? You deserve to lose Xu Xinran Believe me When I'm being played by you It feels good, right? It doesn't work like that. Brother Poseidon, I don't have it. in the mood I won't care about you from now on Don't appear in front of me again Otherwise I gave it to you I will make you lose twice as much. I don't want Ansheng You don't go Ansheng brother Xu Xinran, don't go I know wrong Don't leave me, okay? He Haisheng, what makes you think I am glad that you can turn back if you ask for it. I see. Mr. Xu, I know all about it It's because of Xia Qingqing I am indifferent He Hansheng You still don't understand the relationship between us Love is not just because of a Xia Qingqing What was it? Because of you Don't love me at all Do you remember what grandpa asked you? Ask if you want to marry me You said if I wasn't a problem You will marry me All these years I try not to be the trouble in your mouth What do you say I do I'll follow you wherever you go. So many years I have no self at all You hear me out I tried to forgive you But every time I'm about to forgive you You hit me hard again Because you feel that no matter what you do I will still love you Will still come back to you He Hansheng I don't want to love you anymore I am human too I will be tired too I'll say it one last time We It's really over. later Never see you again