Carol Massar. Guess what? Because everything is awesome. where we're seeing some progress in the done yet and certainly in what's going But it's kind of interesting as we what a Trump White House looks like and Another record here. higher today. different and we'll talk about that in But after that news last night that goods from China, additional 10% goods, products from Mexico and Canada. reaction. Yeah, well, I mean, if you read the by the US companies that have outsized If you if you look at those names, Ford, General Motors, a couple of Yeah. Rick, do you want to go through those Tell me. Just give me a little deep tease. This always raises the question of floated were just trial balloons, the actually take action, executive action day one. This is what we had to manage and deal Also, any carry through the Biden Right, In terms of some tariffs. Yeah. York and it is green across the screen, indices, the LG up 122 points for about The S&amp;P 500 up about 30 plus points or and change. settle, but I don't think any where take it from that record high. up about 6/10 of a percent. 2000 leading the declines with a with a All right, back to the big caps we go. but a little bit more to the upside. this Tuesday, Scarlette 229 to the All right. in the S&amp;P 500 finishing in the green communication services leading the way your week. energy just barely lower by a quarter of Materials losing two thirds of 1%. gainers to that play off of the news proposing a rule to require the U.S. obesity drugs for millions of Americans, cost by a lot. ten years. that one was up about one and a half Eli Lilly up about four and a half So we definitely saw those stocks gain Quick over to Wells Fargo. half percent, finishing the day with a It may be at a new record and I'm just Yep. a lender is in the last stages stages of lift that $1.95 trillion asset cap in account scandal. familiar with the situation. for those who are trying to be bullish I had a mentioned number one gainer in new record high, Jefferies upgrading the think upping its price target. 113 from 93, stock closing at 101. Which I know Energy I know. were paid a lot of money to come up with I'm sure they were. Let's go to some of the decliners that carmakers fell today. General Motors down 9%. March of 2020. This is over. Trump's plan, tariffs on goods from hit those companies. information here, Stellantis, exposed to an increase in tariffs on This is according to an analysis over at actually from just from this morning. vehicles they sell in the U.S. 25%. Bernstein. companies taking a hit today. It's actually the lowest level going all The company cut its full year sales retail environment. cater to these middle income shoppers budget conscious. purchases and discretionary spending. finally, Amgen fell by close to 5%, shot failed to significant. rate of gastrointestinal side effects. A shot did help patients lose up to 20% Analysts had expected it to help That would help it compete against shots There was a takeaway that like be best things or beat to 2525, 26%. There you go. Take a look at the bond market here, The belly of the curve still selling off pretty much flat on the day at a five Did pretty well. billion. All right. I saw a couple of software companies Autodesk shares relatively unchanged This after their most recent quarter slightly above street estimates, EPS at The Street was looking for roughly 213 a The forecast going forward for the the company sees adjusted EPS of 210 to That's the range they're giving. $2.12. another application software company, estimates. revenue of $2.16 billion. It did narrow its outlook when it comes billion is the new outlook, whereas from 7.7 billion to 7.73 billion. a half percent is a forecast, whereas All right, guys, let's get to Dow let's get to the red sticky that Infrastructure Solutions group. coming in pretty much in line with The estimate on the street was 11.30 for That, too, is a little light, just The estimate was 24.59 billion. definitely seeing some reaction here in It has been on a tear. So, again, seeing some disappointment in Okay, Let's take a look. about 4.2%. The company sees fiscal year revenue That is above estimates that came in at Third quarter revenue did beat estimates million. third quarter also did beat estimates, Department store chain Nordstrom out It looks like a beat on both the top and to the downside, third quarter adjusted The street, they wanted $0.22 a share, Net sales also coming in slightly above The Street was looking for 3.2 way. stand by the full year EPS forecasts That's a range of $1.40 to a dollar 70. here, but overall it looks like they But again, it looks like investors Let's also get to Urban Outfitters, the after hours trading right now, a third sales up one and a half percent. and a quarter percent. adjusted EPS, a dollar ten beating the I thought urban air was cool when I was Anyway, going back to Dell for a second really hard. So within the Infrastructure Solutions being online with estimates, but the where the AI server part is, House came It's still up 58%, but it's about $7.4 Now, this is an area where they were Supermicro. is on that. particular part of the company in their And a little bit of commentary in CEO, Jeff Clark over at Dell saying time high driving record air server third quarter in a pipeline that grew So interesting for a little bit of color But nonetheless, again, investors not aftermarket. over at Dell, Geoff Clark saying that quarter increase the number of solutions each quarter optimized server billion per year to date. is like at 15? I think she's amazing. Were you tough on your mom? I would say obviously no, except for all I think she was super. She was a gymnast. is this? I know. Keep going. This is what we're doing. That's a wrap. in the aftermarket. catch us tomorrow. bell.