- [Narrator] Buckingham Palace holds a unique place in Britain's heart. It's balcony is focus The Queen's grandparents appeared At the end of the war Churchill was there. On the Queen's wedding day all the Royal Family were there. When Prince Charles they took their place Now a more controversial couple Crowds flock to the palace on the Queen's official birthday in June celebrate with a balcony appearance. Now she faces a dilemma, new wife Camilla with all the connotations of her past role as his mistress. - Nobody really wants to and history of Charles and the word adultery seems But the truth of the matter adulterous relationship who didn't want to blame her relationship said that Camilla Parker-Bowles in the The Queen is aware that she knows what the consequences have been, she won't forget and you on the balcony at Buckingham - [Narrator] 1990 marked the Battle of Britain, as the flypast they didn't engulf them and threaten Their troubles really began in the Queen's sister, married Lord Snowden. She would be the first senior Royal to divorce in modern times. In 1973 the Queens only Mark Phillips, another would later remarry in a low-key ceremony. The spectacular wedding of to secure the future The fabulous ceremony one was the Royal Family's own fairy tale. The dark secret of Camilla, a guest at that wedding was, concealed. Later Diana said, &quot;There were Sarah Ferguson, Fergie, Their marriage said the Archbishop was a precious gift to the nation. Their bridal path too promises and shattered hopes. Divorce and scandal would - In the last 20 years the British Royal Family has survived some and they have all in different ways put that future under threat. I think by marrying Camilla is going to secure the I'm afraid I can't agree with him. I think that by marrying Camilla Family into dangerous new territory. Camilla is going to become the most senior woman in the That's a heck of a jump for who only within very recent memory was an extremely unpopular figure given in breaking up Charles and after all the cornerstone - [Narrator] Summer 2004, The Queen reluctantly began After a series of joint and Camilla the Queen became convinced that the issue needed - There were meetings at June the 4th where the Queen staying in a lodge away from advisers came up from London about the constitutional But at Christmastime Charles to get married and talked it while she was at in motion for an announcement in February. - I definitely feel the I think we can see over the four years that she's been She has been pushed by Prince doing things that she She was forced to meet party at Highgrove which Charles gave. She didn't want to do it don't do that and I don't come to the Queen Mother's hundredth birthday. The Queen does not accept and that is a problem for the future. - [Narrator] Ludlow 2003. - For many years now Ludlow Racecourse has needed new stand from the Dover. An enormous trouble has been taken to try to build a stand that incorporates. - [Narrator] This was a In opening the new Jubilee Stand Charles recalled an earlier day when he had raced at Ludlow as an amateur jockey. He stayed to see the Prince named after his earlier when Lady Diana Spencer, watched with Camilla Parker-Bowles. They saw him race into second Diana didn't know then the Charles admitted his long liaison with Camilla in a television interview in 1994. Their affair mirrored a historic romance, Charles's great-great-grandfather, Edward VII and Alice Keppel, Camilla's great-grandmother, were lovers. Alice was beautiful, elegant and discreet. The more adventurous Camilla but came out of the shadows However it seemed that she too was content to remain a mistress. - I think Camilla can that she would become a Duchess, a Princess, maybe even a Queen in time. She had teenage ambition to Alice Keppel who had an She thought that she too could perhaps be a Royal mistress but it would be anything more than that. Now we look at it and is a mere footnote in history, Camilla is going to make a whole chapter. - [Narrator] Charles had met brief affair until he began He was away until September. In July Camilla married Guards Officer Andrew Parker-Bowles, a favorite at the Royal Court. - Camilla was six years into a seven-year campaign to marry Andrew Parker Bowles. She knew that she was Princess of Wales on three counts. One, that her looks weren't up to it. Secondly, that her aristocratic and thirdly she was no virgin. And so there was never ever going to be Princess - She has been in the background life as a constant supporter and friend in good times and bad. The promotion from mistress to wife is notoriously tricky in Royal history. There is a convention that a mistress may not look beyond her post. Well it looks as if this one is looking beyond her current position. If she came into this room there we would be required, expected, - [Narrator] Protocol Charles at many family or official events. If the Queen was present Charles was faced with a as it was or try to - He was damned if he did and he was damned if he didn't really. He's had a lot of embarrassment to put up with because Camilla has spend Christmas with the Royal Family and then in November were would you two go to a The Prince's godson was getting married and Camilla was told that sit with him because of Royal protocol. She was going to have to sit other side of the church an embarrassment too far, The thing about all of this, as if it's set in stone but the monarch of the day that's just the Queen showing her distrust and disapproval of the relationship. - [Narrator] Queen Rania of the encouragement they needed Charles has tried for a long the church and his own parents that he should make Camilla his wife. - I don't think that sense of duty to marry Camilla. I think this is something wished for many many years. It's he alone and against from courtiers, from the who's been steam rolling could actually marry Camilla Now we still have to see going to come off because British public are really undecided as to whether this is going - [Narrator] Just a year Charles claimed he has &quot;I thought the British people were &quot;compassionate but I he complained to an author. - I think this is where where wrong when he complains about the people not showing him compassion. He often comes over as being a bit unsure of himself, somebody who can't make a decision. He just seems to feel that it's it's his destiny to do what and nobody has a right to this is where he's gone - [Narrator] Charles and functions to attract wealthy On such occasions Camilla is dressed in expensive couture gowns Like Alice Keppel Camilla has become a woman of considerable substance. - King Edward VII left his Camilla's great-grandmother He made sure that she had not only for her own lifetime but for the lifetime of her children and it is true the Camilla has which her great grandmother I think that Prince Charles almost certainly looking to history will have made exactly the same provisions and Camilla will be very rich when he dies. - [Narrator] Camilla will still have to enjoy comparisons with Diana. As Charles's fiancee the attractive girl with Highly photogenic she who grew jealous of his To others her visual sparkling personality, proved She became a national asset, a roving ambassador for her country. - Diana could flirt for Britain and it's it is an underused I mean innocent flirting, can have a very disarming people and it was one of that while she was very very conscious of the need to to carry out this sort of high-level diplomatic and she was extremely nevertheless she could and she did over and over again. I mean the President of United States, the President of France, the President of Zimbabwe. He said she makes you feel that he meant that she She gave him a good feeling as she saw it, to go around feelings and that included it included orphans and - I'm only trying to highlight a problem that's going on all around the world. - She got out of her palace and she went off and she did her job. And it was a very unusual job and it was very stressful one but it could also be very rewarding and the most rewarding part of it was usually And whether it was the East of Lahore if she met people who needed her, who lightened her life was pretty gloomy, And she responded to that, that's what made her such a good Princess. She was great at her job because she committed herself to it Camilla Parker-Bowles is in I think probably she must and maybe in the far distant but right now even attracting acceptance is going to be a tough call. It's gonna require a lot it's gonna require her to come and to the wider world as a - [Narrator] Camilla is a woman known for hunting rather than caring. Charles has presented her relations campaign with little - In my view this is putting I think that what should should have been introduced We know nothing about her, behind palace walls for and she has never been talked to the British to be measured by their standards. - The whole thing about that they pay their dues, they earn their living by helping charitable organizations and Camilla does virtually She does a little bit of help but she's not seen to be - The British public, Camilla as a mistress now they're going to have to start thinking First they're gonna have to Princess of Wales which is and then they're gonna have And even if she isn't going future that is how people are That is the the image she's and I think it most unlikely herself to the British as anything like a suitably the sort of near universal respect that a Head of State needs to have. - [Narrator] Approaching throughout the world for her However there is one area where she might have done things differently. We now know through video that she went to the Queen and Camilla but the Queen Diana decided to betray - It's a real pity that so many chances to produce a happier outcome went begging. I was aware that there were of the Royal Family to help the crisis that they faced She was not a natural rebel, yearned for reassurance and Whether the words couldn't didn't hear them she felt Royal organization and she wasn't a wimp either felt outnumber and conspired - [Narrator] The Queen did The couple adopted a strategy events for his own charities but the Queen refused to allow Camilla to join Charles on official Royal duties. - The Queen was worried about upsetting more traditional She didn't want Camilla to be of course the wedding the problems really and it's - [Narrator] Camilla retained were almost ladies-in-waiting. Some like Hugh van Cutsem Emily has now fallen out of At the new Royal Court of from skiing, hunting and Among them is Charles his skiing friend and Camilla's staunchest She reunited them four years She might be considered a queen maker. Patti and husband Charlie's novelist, and Tara a dedicated party goer and reformed drug addict, are The Queen chooses less exuberant friends. For Charles such public frivolity will have to end when he eventually For Camilla adulation to be tempered with constraint. - It's said that Camilla is English county stock and transforms very happily into A lot depends on how how she uses her new position, it's an enormously influential one. It rather depends to be brief, rather grandly or whether she - [Narrator] Camilla Princess of Wales she will be Her Royal Highness the As Duke of Cornwall Charles revenues of the duchy. He has an income of around which he pays only voluntary tax. Recently a parliamentary committee started investigating his finances. - One of the most embarrassing past is the investigation Public Accounts Committee, where they showed that he was getting - This is a man, Prince a hundred personal stuff I mean the Queen doesn't get - [Narrator] At the Queen's be able to use the helicopter and two aircraft of the Royal Air The Royal Train will now A fleet of eight chauffeur-driven two Bentley's, three Rolls at Camilla's disposal with Carriages with footman in livery may drive the new Duchess of Cornwall. Camilla has already entertained with Charles on behalf of his charities. As his wife she will have more of red carpet and the impressive admire each summer when the She might discover that the some staff have run a gifts passed on by their Royal bosses. The Royals themselves have press with comparisons to Then an undercover reporter His detailed account of contained pictures of the Queen's breakfast table complete The public had only seen now they found out how the Queen lived. - Clearly there was a degree impersonating a member Nevertheless the revelations fact that the Queen liked her of Tupperware boxes, was and I think the public and I think they felt that It made her look much more - The Queen and her family and a lot of European their noses at the Windsors preoccupations are gin and And they're not elegant, they're dumpy, frumpy sorts think that Tupperware boxes well that would be the from middle-class people - [Narrator] As heir to to deference when he meets the public. Camilla will expect courtesies as her Royal Highness the Duchess of Cornwall. There was no protocol alone to visit Lucia who introduced her to Charles in 1972. Camilla was besieged by paparazzi and chased by interviewers. From now on the Royal machinery will protect her from nuisance She'll have bodyguards The Duchess of Cornwall will enjoy official tours courtesy She will effectively be Reconnaissance visits by that every aspect of A protective cordon will screen her from intrusive questioners. Staff will make sure that she's never put in this position again. Her cars will be checked and potential kidnap or Paparazzi will be kept vehicles will prevent them On this visit to Chile there was an eerie reminder of Diana's Camilla too was chased Diana gave up her bodyguard in 1993 after her separation from Charles. She had to face rough treatment when she holidayed with just friends. Her former bodyguard her police protection led directly to her death in Paris after a car crash. - It's my view that had Scotland Yard been in charge of that security of that night, irrespective of any conspiracy theories or any plans to attack her had the security been there you and I would not be - I don't think she understood the degree to which her Scotland Yard protection officers made her life bearable and I think her decision to dispense with them was rather petulant and was intended to prompt sympathy from people to see the consequences - [Narrator] Ken Wharfe He protected her at home and abroad from attacks by assassins and stalkers. A trained marksman his casual air belied his own role as a whatever the occasion no If Camilla is to follow in need another Ken to shadow Here in Egypt Ken showed the press, allowing Diana photographers before continuing her tour. On this trip while she stayed at the Ambassador's residence in Cairo Ken kept guard while she took a dip in the pool. - Diana was pretty streetwise peripheral vision and I at the same time as myself, spotted some people are a roof on a I was almost certain that taking pictures of Diana in the pool. All I did to help that was to try and obscure the the shots Well you know it didn't always work and that wasn't necessary my role but in fact if you look at it from a security standpoint it was But of course Diana was &quot;Look what do I do here? &quot;Do I have to get out?&quot; I said, &quot;Well no you stay She said, &quot;Well I never I said, &quot;Well no but that's &quot;Princess of Wales, there's - [Narrator] Ken was a especially every August when the Royal Family returned to their - There are aspects of Balmoral very often she would ring me up and say &quot;Look I need to go for a walk.&quot; and I would go mean walked for miles along the River Dee and and that was her freedom but I think there were many aspects of Balmoral that Towards the end of course the relationship it was just too close for home. You you've got the mother-in-law you're a bit on a limb dependent on speaking to - [Narrator] staff saw Charles surroundings of Highgrove, the couple's country This was their weekend retreat. Charles and his sons Charles's dog Tigger was - Tiggr and Mervyn, very good relationship want dogs in the kitchen but one morning Tigger made a run for something At which point Mervyn grabbed the neck and then opened up and put the dog in the heater tray. And was who should come in was the Prince of Wales who said, &quot;Has anybody seen Tigger?&quot; Well I couldn't actually &quot;I'm sorry sir, the dog's in the oven.&quot; But he did go outside and &quot;Mervyn get the dog out.&quot; Cause the dog now was instead skinned Jack Russell was with a fairly high temperature. so we got it moving through it came through the door and said &quot;Tigger there you are.&quot; He said, &quot;You look amazingly hot.&quot; - [Narrator] Camilla is crucial role in any palace. They are also aware of any tensions in the relationships of their bosses. - You know palace is a know members are all family Your valets, your butler, your maid or whatever you're to call it. In the Prince and it was pretty obvious that the marriage was going through a difficult period but it was kept very much under wraps. Everybody knew in the circle that worked within the palace their marriage and it wasn't I think it's a credit here to to her staff that very little was said. Working in Royal residences some staff have found other such as selling information and trinkets passed on Recent events have made their livelihood and security uncertain. - You're always prey to the you can be in one day and out been tightened up because you know a Daily Mirror and then revealed far too So you're hampered, you've got to sign all these secrecy acts, and the pays a pittance. - That's why so many of them They pick up these trinkets and things or letters or whatever and they sell them on eBay or they sell them through people in America who adore the Royal Family. And to supplement their appalling pay. - [Narrator] Paul Burrell, the Diana Memorial Fund after her death. With her secretary Jacqueline Allen they were honored guests at an This gift to Burrell from Diana raise money for good causes. A replica of the blue diamond in the film Titanic raised Then it emerged that Burrell had stashed hundreds of the Princess's Charged with theft he was His court case was a fiasco. He was cleared when the Queen recalled a conversation in which he told her he was safeguarding some of Later he revealed details of his private talk with the Queen. - The Burrell trial never have gone ahead in the first place. I mean they made a fundamental mistake, they were misled the Royals by what was presented to them by the police. Had the Prince of Wales taken to him by a number of to have met with Burrell, the case began he could have resolved it. And Burrell was no threat that Burrell had was buried in his attic. It wasn't going to be sold, but it went ahead, he was collapsed like many of us had done fundamentally nothing wrong. - [Narrator] Burrell then Diana, Charles and Camilla in a book. It was serialized with explosive headlines in a tabloid paper. - He betrayed Diana, there's The man who said for years anything did it, just to make money. Because he was so upset when he lost his job and his home when Diana died and he couldn't forgive the Royal Family. He went to see the him stay on in Kensington - [Narrator] After Diana's death her Royal jewelry was returned to the palace. The Princess had many heritage items, some like this necklace, dating - The boys inherited most wasn't part of the Royal and chose certain pieces that they wanted. I believe that Harry took her Cartier watch and William took But obviously her personal for them and their future wives. The tiaras that belong to which get handed down from have gone back into the - [Narrator] The Duchess seen wearing some of of the Queen's personal collection. Perhaps not the state diadem, seven other sumptuous tiaras including the Queen's favorite, the pearl and diamond tiara and the There are 15 important necklaces, scores of earrings, bracelets plus many other pieces On their engagement Charles which belonged to the late Queen Mother. It's worth half a million pounds. In 1901 after the death of Queen Victoria Edward VII, Alice Keppel's lover and his Queen Alexandra were crowned. Alexandra wore a crown Kohinoor diamond, said to The Queen Mother wore it in coronation day in 1937. It was placed on her coffin Now in the Tower of London could it be worn next by Alice Keppel knew that life was strictly private. A softening up the public campaign waged for several years has driven the course of events leading to Although divorced in 1996 in the eyes of some people Diana's Camilla had divorced in 1995. She was a guest at Charles's to speculate on her possible First there were religious and constitutional Similar difficulties faced His Prime Minister, Stanley choose between the throne For her he abdicated. They married in France and lived in exile. Their memories still Princess Margaret also between keeping her Royal Group Captain Peter Margaret owed her loyalty to her sister, the newly crowned Queen prevailing standards of the 1950s. - Princess Margaret didn't get married in 1953 because the government of the day advised the Queen that it would not be acceptable to the British public. Largely because of the Church - [Narrator] In 1992 the sidestepped the Church of England. She married Tim Lawrence at under the easier rules of George Cary, then the explored ways to allow The compromise of a civil wedding and a church blessing was made by - The church has had a very Charles's hand in marriage. They have been very to see Charles and Camilla - They seem to be divided about it. There's one section of that the people should be happiness and then there's that marriage is sacred and a divorce especially should So I can see that the sort of England would say no no no - [Narrator] Charles's civil to 1836 when Queen Victoria In 1840 the young Queen married Albert in a religious service at the Chapel Royal at St James's Palace. Group Captain Peter Townsend were prevented from marrying in a civil ceremony by the 1836 - There are various laws governing marriages of the Royal Family. We go back to the 1836 Marriage Act, the the 1949 Marriage very very clearly to prevent members of the Royal Family from But there's a danger that now in court then future run the risk of getting married illegally and their spouses losing Unless the government is going to prove that - It is legally contentious and I'm afraid that's going to go into the history books, and for better or worse, and when people look back on the fact that it was be one of the things that - [Narrator] Charles took Lord Chancellor over the He was told that human previous laws banning the Royal Family from having civil weddings. - The great thing about make it up as they go along, What they like to do is they they want to do something and it hasn't been done recently they can say, &quot;Oh it was done in Henry VII's time, &quot;It was done in Queen Victoria's time.&quot; If they haven't got a precedent then they just make it up and say, &quot;Oh well that's how it should be anyway.&quot; And the great thing is with murder simply because they want to, and it's very interesting to see how inventive they can be - [Narrator] Perhaps Camilla's be cynical, it was also the Royal Family did not have but Charles was quick a town near his country home. Charles's title makes it an unusual addition to the local list. By attending Sunday service Highgrove he is trying to avoid a rift with the wider Church Settling for a church blessing will not satisfy everyone and some might not regard his marriage as valid. Soon after his engagement Charles made an official visit to He faced an unenthusiastic reception. His visit coincided with Stealing the show were Crown Prince Frederick of Denmark and his Tasmanian born wife Princess Mary, a former Sydney estate agent. Her presence recalled an earlier visit in 1983 when the young Princess Diana made her first official tour of Australia. Diana and Charles received These were the glory days surely Camilla cannot - I imagined that the reaction be comparable to reaction to people will think she's a good More people will think that Diana and that in fact by showing a lack of respect for Diana. But the great majority will - Opinion polls that seem Republic is growing again Australians are faced with the prospect of Charles becoming their next King with Camilla as his wife support for a republic has grown even - [Narrator] Charles should of all the 15 nations of the Commonwealth, where the Queen is Head of State. - I think the Commonwealth not so much by the Queen Commonwealth as head of the But I know that Prince Charles is not as enthusiastic about his Commonwealth And I think it's a matter future of the British monarchy seems to be turning its its attention rather more towards Europe then towards the the remaining bits of the of Buckingham Palace for for a - [Narrator] Windsor Castle was announced as the venue of the wedding. Many Royal marriages and christenings have taken place within St. George's Chapel was used in 1992 for a wedding attended by all the Royal Family. It was the marriage of Lady of the Queen's cousin the Duke of Kent. And in 1999 Prince Edward married Sophie Rhys Jones at St George's Chapel. He is the only one of the Queen's children who is not divorced. The chapel is ornate and regally splendid with the atmosphere of a cathedral. Charles plans to marry there were dashed by a legal technicality. - It emerged after they a rather hurried announcement, provoked by a leak to a newspaper, that they couldn't get married in Windsor Castle without allowing the public to get married there for the The Queen was horrified at the thought of her weekend's being interrupted by members of the public coming in to get married and all sorts - Charles's officials are starting from scratch with this one and they're trying to blend in with the Queen's household and what it requires and I think that it's hardly surprising that here and there things have come unstuck. - [Narrator] The couple journey from the castle through the town of Windsor to the Register The low-key ceremony will There will be no television family and Charles's son's will attend. Notably the Queen will be absent. - It does go against the to go to the wedding, monarchy is all about theater really and I think part of the problem is the Queen was worried that this was turning into a farce and she didn't want to be associated with with something that is making the monarchy the object of ridicule all around the world at the moment. - How different it all was around the world 750 many of those who believed angered by Charles's deception - I think the public are very cynical about the Royal Family. I think the image of them year for the last 15 or 20 years. There are too many people who really don't trust Prince Charles at all and I don't think they wanted was the King. - People under 40 think the the Royal Family they're Michael Jackson or Robbie going on and they quite interested every now and then to see what the latest installment of the soap opera is. For people over 40 they take they still generally take the monarchy quite seriously and it's those people in particular I think who've been upset by the prospect of a future King getting married to a woman whose adultery with Charles helped cause the breakdown - [Narrator] February 1981 the cameras for their engagement. Notice Diana's reply to the interviewer. - I'm amazed that she's being - [Interviewer] And I suppose in love? - Of course. - Whatever in love means. - [Narrator] February 2005. Another engagement to Uncannily her words - [Interviewer] Did he get - Of course. - [Narrator] Camilla is reluctant to be compared to Diana with So far Camilla has adopted only a limited charity profile. - She will never be someone Royal duties, someone who is she will try anyway to background, just supporting her husband and getting along very quietly with being a member of the Royal Family. She clearly is somebody who is very well-suited for Charles. People who meet her say that she is very good putting them at their ease. She's a very strong, steady somebody who needs constant reassurance. His personal life is a bit of a disaster and that's what's Camilla will be in the Royal carriage parade at Ascot Races each summer. She has to be seen as part accepted as Princess Consort For the present the Duchess of Cornwall will be the second lady in the land. Princess of Wales in all but name and she could still become Queen. - With Charles and Camilla The guys who were actually thing don't have any There isn't a book of to make it up as they go along. Prince Charles obviously throne with Camilla by his Princess Consort or a I think the the rule is that the wife of the King is so in his eyes this is quite doable. - We will wait and see whether the jury of public opinion will It's a very tricky road ahead He's put his reputation marriage we're going to have to see whether he can get away with it. - [Narrator] The same a second fairytale. Based on scandal and tragedy this one can not be sold as a storybook romance. The question now is can the monarchy survive a King Charles (soft instrumental music)