He uploaded? Oui. Dump it. Submitting your first ever paper to a journal can do in any research field. Your work is going to be torn apart by your after a few heated rounds of revisions. But by your 10th paper or so, these anxieties It's just part of the job. In 1996, Alan Sokal was here [point to a flowchart Which...is weird. See Alan Sokal is 41 right now, a well established theory, and he's had close to 100 papers But his newest paper was different. This one was going to be controversial, and The editors had requested changes, but Alan appear it its unaltered, intended form. Eventually the editors gave in, and they published The name of the paper? Transgressing the Boundaries: Towards a Transformative And at first glance, this doesn't reveal Sure, it's got a little dramatic flair to work? Well, consider for a moment the journal he A cultural studies and social science journal. Let's read a quote: Just as liberal feminists of legal and social equality for women and mathematicians are often content to work within See, this is a work of satire. It's a joke. It was an elaborate, petty, prank. Alan Sokal deliberately wrote a ridiculous buzzwords taken from post-modern philosophy, social science journal. The idea was that if he could get his nonsense cultural journal, it would suggest that the paper agreed with their philosophical leanings, Sokal waited for 3 months, then exposed his that the editors of Social Text never even The result was...Chaos. The physicists and mathematicians found it The philosophers and sociologists though? They were understandably a little pissed off. In the end Sokal never got punished, because He technically hadn't broken any rules, on any job opportunities. The only thing both sides agreed on was that To quote Alan's own words here: &quot;the mere that the editors of one particular journal applied a lax intellectual standard. "...sloppy sociology, like sloppy science, But you've seen the title of this video. This isn't a story about Alan Sokal. It's quite the opposite: 6 years after this posted on a forum: "Physics bitten by reverse This is Bog.TXT. Let's go on a trip. Let's meet our protagonists. This is Grichka. This is Igor. They are brothers. Twin brothers. These are the brothers Bogdanoff. Here's a quick run-down: Igor being the elder by about 40 minutes. They would go on to be the oldest of 6 children. But they are not just any old pair old baby Although they were born in Gascogne France, are the children of two separate aristocratic tapestry. They get their last name from their father, a Russian Painter whose ancestry stretches Back when Russia was more into Tsars than Their maternal grandmother was Countess Bertha to a member of the Austrian princely house During his time in the Austrian royal court, Hayes, one of the first Black Jazz musicians She and Roland began an illicit affair, leading and their eventual expulsion from Austrian The Bogdanoff brothers spent most of their in a castle belonging to their grandmother. At all moments they were surrounded by two and 15,000 books in the family library. Their parents eventually grew apart and divorced, caregiver. The twins quickly learned German, French, from their housekeepers. Both brothers are well versed in multiple planes and helicopters. For most of their childhood they were inseparable, Igor has been married 4 times and has 6 children His spouses range from TV personalities to Grichka, on the other hand, has never been Whereas Igor has a diploma in semiotics, the political science. As far as their personalities go, I have a Igor is apparently the extrovert, and Grichka "Grichka has his head in the stars, Igor These are quotes, which I'm going to take matters much. Igor and Grichka are two halves of a singular They exist as a pair, a unit that does not They don't seem real, and we're just pawns Speaking of the cosmos, are they are co-hosting Although relatively unknown to international in 1980s France. Temps X was a speculative sci-fi show where jumpsuits, and interviewed various writers The show was a smash hit, airing for 9 seasons brother's careers. At its peak it's estimated that 28% of the This success happened for a few key reasons, Sci-fi was going through a renaissance at the height of their popularity, and public warp-speed drives. They were talking about things like the decoding those were still just sci-fi, and now they're The 2nd reason is that Temps X broadcasted one of 3 TV channels in France that was free And the 3rd reason should be obvious from Look at these beefcakes. These are two good looking guys. They would go on to host a few additional lukewarm reception from the public. Their TV era has passed. But that didn't stop them from co-writing from the keys to writing good sci-fi, to speculative and even the origin of the big bang. Of course, they'd take issue with me calling Their books and shows faced repeated criticism For example, they'd claim that decreasing which is not true, and that the expansion smaller when it first came into existence the same size since it first formed). Uhh and just for context, I got a copy of purposes. It came with some comments in the margins. Let's take a look. Quel bavards", "Connerie!", "petites Let me tell you though, after reading one I get the appeal. Their books shouldn't be used in place of overviews of complex topics. Their style is at times, overly self-indulgent but that's not exactly rare when it comes Look, whether it's a clip from the 80s in talk show last year, the twins are excellent Of course, anyone born in the 90's and onward The twins are most well-known for having undergone most recent and drastic round occurring in To be serious for a second, when people are to modify their bodies like this there is on. I don't feel comfortable making that a punchline. Instead I want you to consider that we're the brothers throughout this video that aren't The Bogdanoff twins, who are now in their have managed to just barely cling to relevancy absurd antics. But this video is about one particular period lead to this forum post on October 24th, 2002. This is the story of how Igor and Grichka Details about how, when and why the Bogdanoff's but this is what we know for sure: Temps X successful run. Ultimately it was cancelled when the TF1 network years the brothers went on a media hiatus, exploring their love of cosmology, as well A topic that has always been at the forefront the fractions of a second that immediately This topic would eventually wind up as the For whatever reason the twins began seriously They've stated in an interview that they got sidetracked by their TV show. But now, at the cusp of their 40s, the time This is not meant to be a slight against them, but considering their existing fame and successful bother now? They initially enrolled in 1991 for Primordial However they only managed to last 2 years members of the faculty objected. They objected on the grounds that they were their existing books, which did not meet the John D. Barrow, a professor of mathematical the brothers contacted him at that time with &quot;They were very anxious to obtain Ph.D.'s becoming an examiner,&quot; he says. &quot;There were two theses that they had submitted. They were laughable compendiums. &quot;A couple years later in 1993 they made a enrolled at the University of Burgundy. Their first supervisor was a mathematical Flato would sadly pass away in 1998, so unfortunately on the brothers. A colleague of Flato, mathematician Daniel as supervisor. Thankfully we have a lot more insight from Dr. Sternheimer described the twins as stubborn hard time understanding that they are not themselves in the foot with vague statements The focus of their work are the first few was still in the so-called Planck era, or Bang. That's 34 zeros, very very small. This is the smallest unit of time that has After the Planck era is when all the quarks theories about how all that happened, but state of the universe. The brothers claim that at this timescale falls apart, and a new mathematical construction On June 26th of 1999, after nearly a decade theses. Grichka passed with the distinction of "honourable", is the rarely given, absolute lowest passing Most successful candidates receive the distinction To quote one of his thesis reviewers "[this] students you only want to get out of the system," And even then, Grichka was torn apart in the He answered almost none of the questions correctly, According to another reviewer, the mathematicians as long as he changed his degree subject from revisions. Igor on the other hand, did not strictly fail, So to use his own words: he withdrew his thesis However, he was told he could reattempt if Which, to be clear, is an extremely bizarre It's straight up unheard of. If this feels like a cop-out, it is. Despite this bizarre publishing condition, Igor managed to publish 5 papers in 5 journals. And those journals were: Annals of Physics, Journal of Physics, Il Nuovo Cimento, and Gravity. He defended his thesis for a second time, 8th of 2002. These two 53 year olds were now doctors. And if Igor has passed on his first try like story. You wouldn't be watching this video. Like many PhD candidates their theses would university, and they would continue on their two. But when Igor submitted his work to journals, They had eyes on them now. We'll never know how many people saw the Just by looking at the publication dates, much notice. But then someone did. Every account of this story points to the Max Niedermaier sent an email to his colleague Supposedly two brothers had managed to publish Not just that though, they had conned their This email spread like wildfire in the academic John Carlos Baez, a professor at UCR. Somewhere along the line, these emails found UCR. Now without Baez, this story may not have Keep in mind it's 2002, and Google is still Youtube, Twitter, all the usual places where yet. As for Baez, he had a bit of a reputation Since 1993 John Baez had been posting a column Physics. So when Max Niedermaier's email made its than prepared to share this story with the One thing struck him about the story though. It reminded him of a similar situation from And with that, he came up with the title that affair. "Physics bitten by reverse Alan Sokal hoax?" John Baez opened his post with a callback the rumours as he'd heard them. Apparently, Igor and Grichka, two well known a hoax in the same way Alan Sokal had, but Physics was butt of the joke this time. The idea being that physics had gotten so what was real and what was fake anymore. The first step in their alleged plan had been master the jargon necessary for writing a to cap-off their hoax, they defended their day, with live TV crews and a dinner with Baez then ends his posts with links to the about some of the gibberish that stood out The forum went wild and began tearing into new threads. The conclusion most seemed to draw, even if matter, was that all the vocabulary and buzzwords had little to no meaning. One of the most common examples had to do That being the famous experiment where put day, and the rotation of the earth ends up "We draw from the above that whatever the pendulum is necessarily aligned with the initial space S3 Blah blah blah that's a lot of is quick to point out that you can remove the big-bang happened everywhere, no matter it swings can be said to intersect the big Or even more simply: Any plane contains a So why even invoke Foucault's pendulum at Well it's likely the brother's invoked scientific history, which wouldn't feel but it does feel out of place in a highly The papers as a whole are a jumbled mess of lack of coherence. Urs Schreiber went to the trouble of trying ideas, based on which types of jargon got He landed on A. Statistical mechanics, B. String theory, and E. Quantum mechanics. And that might not sound that weird if you're 5 very distinct fields, and mixing and matching Schreiber even notes that the only reference and the rest of the paper has almost nothing As the forum post picked up steam, bigger Alain Connes, winner of the Field's Medal myself that they're talking about things that Nobel prize winner George Charpak made it scientific community was &quot;nonexistent&quot;". Perhaps the most shocking fact however, was identical, and that all of them were just and Quantum Gravity. And to be clear, it's not uncommon to get long and diverse pieces of work. But you're not supposed to literally submit It seems Igor found himself a loophole. Now it should be clarified that the rumour Uh for one the school was incorrect. Igor and Grichka had passed their doctorates As for the rumour about the president? This one is obviously false, but its origins Pierre Sarkozy, son of then-president Nikola brother's TV shows. The last part of the rumour was harder to Were the brothers actually trying to pull to get Ph.Ds? The usenet forum was split on this point. Some argued that the papers were too absurd It should be obvious to anyone in the field strung together in a way that had no meaning. Other points in favour of the hoax premise The brothers had backgrounds in social commentary last decade off from their lucrative careers All signs pointed to them being up to something. But other posters countered that if it was to been complicit. People like Sternheimer, who are well respected, a pretty idiotic prank, not to mention the Others pointed out that there was a key difference Anyone who took a careful read of Sokal's the vocabulary was so absurd that the hoax But a reading of the brother's work gave very hard to be taken seriously. So...ARE THESE MISUNDERSTOOD GENIUSES, OR The answer to this last mystery, would come day...from the brothers themselves. Dennis Overbye, a reporter with the NYT had they vehemently denied the hoax premise. They were adamant that their work was genuine, to the Sokal hoax were coming from. This was followed soon after, on October 29th dropped in to the original forum thread. They opened by saying the accusations were likely originated in France, and was due to to slander them and their new TV show. They also quoted an apology from Max Niedermaier. Niedermaier had emailed the brothers to set rumour, and the brothers used this as leverage They also began circulating an unsubstantiated had initially thought the papers were a hoax, told it was real. No names ever got associated with this story, of the brothers. In any case, the next week or so consisted to respond to specific question about their Folks like John Baez, Peter Woit, and Steve down, but as one article put it: It was "like a wall". The ever-humble brothers insisted that they enough, and were more than happy to validate "As far this &quot;geniuses&quot; question is concerned, about it. The only thing which is true is that we have So our results might seem impressive (over we never talk about this and even refused to us 3 years ago." The forum had become essentially a dog-pile the less willing people were to give them This process continued until late December running out of steam. And now, it was time to pick up the pieces. The brothers had made it very clear that this to keep their degrees. Except it wasn't clear that anyone was trying After all, there was no evidence they had They were passed by a committee, who, despite had treated them like normal students. If anything, the fact that their work was their work had been given the green light The question was, had those referees been Let's start with their original thesis committee. &quot;This was not our specialty,&quot; he says. &quot;Nobody on the committee had any deep understanding &quot;In hindsight, the weakness is that there real experts in what they are doing. What they are doing is so far out of the mainstream.&quot; Robert Coquerreaux stated that "the brothers' that of some established theoretical physicists." "Igor's thesis had many things Dr. Jackiw &quot;All these were ideas that could possibly &quot;It showed some originality and some familiarity That's all I ask.&quot; The most damning quote, is from their supervisor. Mr. Sternheimer says he is not an expert in follow his every point. But some of the dissertation was in his field, Ph.D. in mathematics.&quot; Still, he thinks the brothers' strength is "These guys worked for 10 years without &quot;They have the right to have their work recognized days&quot;. Ignatios Antoniadis was one of Grichka's "I had given a favorable opinion for Grichka's of the thesis text. Alas, I was completely mistaken. The scientific language was just an appearance of even basic physics." As for the papers, the outlook is not much One report only has a few notes, and all them Another asks for fixes to spacing and equation Almost no comments on the mathematics. That's not to say all the reviewers were Eli Hawkins on the other hand, gave the brothers Physics. &quot;It is difficult to describe what is wrong [...] It would take up too much space to enumerate say where one error ends and the next begins. In conclusion, I would not recommend that So were their any consequences? Fewer than you'd hope for. Classical and Quantum Gravity issued a statement April that the paper did not meet their current have been published, but rather than retracting to correct the mistakes. Annals of Physics was the only journal to The agreement to use publications as the critical says Frank A. Wilczek, a professor of physics &quot;It's a real cop-out by the committee and Wilczek eventually got hired on as the editor scandal, and he vowed to correct the journal's The remaining three journals never commented Jacques Distler made a good point, the brothers archive generally used by most physicists. More evidence that they had tried to fly under Because of this almost no one would have read Jacques argues that it was due to the associating to them. And there credibility to that idea, John Baez in doing a story on the scandal if it was a hoax. Everyone and their kitchen sink had an opinion Peter Woit argued that "The Bogdanoffs' just about anything else being published,&quot; &quot;But the increasingly low standard of coherence think they were doing something sensible and Steve Carlip had a more middle of the road a whole put in a great deal of work for no for the good of the community. Sometimes a referee makes a mistake. Sometimes two referees make mistakes at the I'm a little surprised that anyone is surprised Surely you've seen bad papers published in ... referees give opinions; the real peer But out of all these opinions I imagine you're What did Alan Sokal think? "What's sauce for the goose is sauce for An expression I'm sure means something, Okay fine apparently it means he was disappointed After all, to repeat his quote from earlier: is useless, or even counterproductive". Now sure, the intentions were different, but The fact that no one could tell whether the the editorial standards of a few journals, of a whole field. Also there's nowhere else to fit this into is Breath of the Wild and I just really wanted The brothers continually insisted that the if you just read their papers. So sure, let's play by their rules. A work of such obvious importance must have And would you look at that! I'm sure this is exactly what the meant. I guess in the end, everyone moved on with obscurity. And for a pair of celebrities, that may be That's all I have for you. Thanks for watching. Uhhhh...hello? Mr. Broccoli. Aviez vous l'impression que cette video Tu n'oublis pas quelque chose? You've got mail You've got mail You've got mail