Max Butler wasn't your typical hacker. Most cybercriminals cooperate with but Max's story started the other way around. He began his career identifying But the lure of the criminal Max ran one of the largest black where millions quietly changed hands. To understand how he became one of the we need to go back to the beginning. Max grew up in Boise, Idaho, where him to a world where computers were But his safe and stable world came crashing In Kevin Poulsen's book Kingpin, the split left Max devastated, reducing him to In high school, Max's behavior unraveled. He got his hands on the school's master key fire extinguisher in the hallways--which He went to live with his dad and Though he dreamed of attending MIT or he chose Boise State University But when Amy started chatting with virtual world--Max flew into a rage. she claimed he put his hands around her throat. with a deadly weapon--his hands. bitter toward the justice system By 1995, when Max was released, However, Max struggled to find a job in the He moved to San Francisco to name Max Ray Vision--a new identity for a new life. But he couldn't shake his old ways. Max shared pirated music, software, and games the time and was slapped with a $300,000 lawsuit The fine was reduced to $3,500 when Max This caught the FBI's attention. The FBI saw Max as an asset to catch In 1997, Max became an FBI informant, identifying websites that were being He saw himself as a "white hat" He also earned $100 to $150 an hour working for Matt's firm was hired by corporations vulnerabilities before malicious Max appeared to have turned his life around. He even met someone new, Kimi, and they But it wasn't long before he threw it all away... His life started to unravel after the crucial software that domain names like google.com into numerical A single line of BIND's code enabled hackers memory buffer to overflow and potentially Max notified the FBI and patched the error in allowing him to control the system whenever He targeted U.S. military and government like points in a video game," as Max later admitted: "...I'm not sure carried away and greatly overstepped my bounds." Security researchers at Lawrence Berkeley An Air Force investigator traced the Jose after discovering he had set pop-up alerts These alerts were routed and a subpoena to the ISP revealed his phone The FBI offered Max leniency if he would the ex-hacker Matt Harrigan, by getting him to But Max refused. As he awaited his fate, Max launched He also developed a free database called arachNIDS to help improve network security. He got hired at a promising tech then...the FBI charged him for his BIND exploits. He pled guilty and was sentenced When he was locked away, his wife Kimi left him. a con man. Jeffrey hacking, Max claimed he wasn't interested. after his release and was so desperate he was Jeff then introduced him to Chris Aragon, realized credit card fraud was more profitable. credit card information, like long-range antenna to intercept Wi-Fi signals. purchase stolen credit card numbers and Shadow Crew - but soon, Max started Max pretended to offer free Amex When other sellers clicked on the link, Max's allowing him to steal their credit card data. Max explained his rationale this way: "I because a given credit card was about to be that part is true - but it doesn't make it o.k. Chris used a magnetic stripe encoder to the magnetic stripe of a blank or existing card. He also created fake IDs, as high-end stores With the cloned cards, Chris and his on shopping sprees at Bloomingdale's, which Chris' wife Clara then resold on eBay. As law enforcement began cracking Max decided it would be safer to create He launched Carders Market in late 2005. Max hacked into a Florida data center to set up a hidden server - far from anywhere Gone was Max Ray Vision; Iceman hacked into various businesses, Washington, stealing 2,000 credit card numbers. As Kevin Poulsen details in Kingpin, the transaction data in plain text, On cardersmarket.com, Max offered different His appetite for power and control At 6-foot-5, Max was physically imposing, but his real power came from his ability to He used SQL injections in some cases, to gain control of competitors' websites, allowing As Kevin Poulsen described in Kingpin, men with six-figure deals in the works; cops to buy off; mortgages to pay; were, in an instant, blind. Adrift. Losing Carders Market had 4,500 members As his operations grew, so did FBI Agent Keith Mularski was the main rival to Carders Market. He adopted the alias "Master Splyntr" - inspired To build credibility, he created as a notorious Polish spammer and got his name While Dark Market was battling it out Agent Mularski aka "Master Splyntr" gained and convinced JiLsi to move Dark Market's The FBI now controlled one of the largest But Carders Market continued to evade the Feds - One of Chris Aragon's associates, John Giannone, was caught selling stolen credit card a key figure behind the ShadowCrew website Unbeknownst to John, Brett was now working as an Investigators traced the crime John's corporate Bank of America account. John was arrested, and though he did reveal the identity of Investigators knew that to get to They arrested Chris after he went on a They also found stacks of counterfeit credit According to Kevin Poulsen's book, Chris and in three years and planned to leave the carding In the hopes of securing a lighter sentence, founded Carders Market and identified Max After Chris' arrest, Max became paranoid even bought a rope ladder in case he needed to quickly escape from the apartment he Despite moving to another apartment the Secret Service was already tailing him. Around 2 pm on September 5, 2007, while Max was taking a nap, agents Although Max's computers were all encrypted, authorities caught a lucky break because his When the computer is running, the decryption key is temporarily stored in Accessing the key from the RAM is much easier Carnegie Mellon University's Computer Emergency Response Team retrieved the key The key was: !!One man can make a difference! Investigators found 1.8 million stolen totaling $86.4 million in fraudulent purchases. In June 2009, Max Butler pleaded He had been held without bail In a pre-sentencing letter "I don't believe further prison time in my case because all I want to do is help. That said, I this earth be it in prison or otherwise. essential failing was that I lost touch with the being a member of society. A friend of mine once what I was doing all the time...but I guess I wasn't all about this advice. I know now that we can't Max Butler was sentenced to 13 years in prison. too much to wait for him and While in prison, he still could Police accused him of arranging for a drone His whole life had been a balancing act channel them toward something positive while often In a conversation with Kevin Poulsen from prison, "I'm not sure how to really mitigate that, I'm reformed. But I don't know Max was released in 2021. Meanwhile, his partner in crime, He was sentenced to 25 years due to Max Butler's story is a chilling our personal information can be Did you know data brokers are actively buying I recently received this email from personal information, including my credit Cybercriminals can use data like take out loans in your name, flood you with In 2022, Americans lost over Fortunately, there's an easy way end up on the dark web. and it's FREE to try out. When you register for Aura, you'll see how Aura then removes your data from these brokers, To see how much of your information is FREE for two weeks by signing up with That's aura.com/newsthink - You also get features like credit monitoring, antivirus protection, and a VPN - all in one app. Again, that's aura.com/newsthink The link is in my description. Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.