Butler Ye The lady has been missing for so many years. How can we be sure? This person is her. Blood donation center DNA testing It won't be wrong And Miss There is a clear sign Logo The position of her right hand There is a red mole Do you sign it? Do you sign it? 5 million is blackmail I won't sign Don't sign or leave Wang Xiaorou Do you want to sign today? Believe it or not, I will kill you I sign I sign Wang Xiaorou That's right A lowly person like you Don't dream of marrying anything. Rich man You don't deserve it I'm blind Even if I owe money for this marriage I want to leave too Tomorrow at 10 am Civil Affairs Bureau See you there mom She stole the bracelet. Just throw it away. Not lost Hey, are you stupid? Don't you blow her up? Blackmail you in return Divide the family property What to do then You are smart. Scare me It's you What I asked you to inquire about how's it going I have inquired Ye Family 20 years ago I lost a daughter. Just found it recently It seems that Miss Ye She is indeed the daughter of the richest man. Wang Xiaorou starts from today You won't be able to get through it again. The happy days of the rich Don't cry while hugging the quilt. Enjoy I have been married to you for three years Every day I am like a slave Serve your whole family I'm worse off than a nanny Such days I've had enough. Hard talk Think of us For the sake of being a couple If you can't survive To our door Have a meal I will still pity you Don't worry I'd starve to death on the road. Nor will Step into your Zhang family Have backbone Jiaojiao Why did Hongwei call me here? We both already Officially divorced Start Today I will be fair and square With you Jiaojiao marry me So small I never wear it Diamonds under five carats Five carats is worth about a million As expected of a rich man never mind You can't catch a wolf without sacrificing your child purchase Buy as big as you want Buy 10 carats Walk bye bye Pooh Dog couple Wang Xiaorou From now on Just you You must Live a good life To those Look at the people who bullied you. Missy finally found you Welcome home, Miss you You are not mistaken. How could I be Where is the daughter of the Ye family? Miss You some time ago Did you go to the hospital to donate blood? That hospital It is the Ye family's property Hospital first time It matches the master. DNA of the Lady Paternity testing can't be wrong But But this also It's incredible If I remember correctly On the base of your right hand Is there a red mole? That's right. You are the owner of the Ye Group Miss Ye Xinrou I am Ye Xinrou That What about my parents? My wife is sick. The master accompanied her See a doctor abroad Come back as soon as you recover. They know After your message Very happy I can't wait to see you now Actually, my wife's illness Also that year When you are lost Anger Now that I'm back Everything will get better Miss, now that you are back The succession issue of the Ye Group That solved it. I'll do it now Starting tomorrow You are General Manager of Yeh Group Why I just got back This is too ostentatious. I still Let's start from the grassroots good Listen to you It turns out that here It's the Ye Group. Hey, isn't this Wang Xiaorou? how Lai Yip Group Interview cleaning staff Excuse me I am from this company intern Now Is cleaning also an internship? Is a designer Wang Xiaorou Don't you look Your rough hands Still a designer I see Just sweeping the floor yes I see Just this one A sharp-tongued mouth Only suitable for mouthfull of feces you Still want to hit me You thought I was still The Wang Xiaorou from the past? I told you not to mess with me Wang Xiaorou You are jealous I stole your man. With your lowly status Not worthy of Zhang Hongwei at all yes Only rotten stuff like you Only worthy of Zhang Hongwei, that bitch I wish you a happy marriage Locked for life Wang Xiaorou I'll tear your mouth What are you two doing? Keep making trouble I called security. Hello, Manager I am Ye Xinrou I am an intern at this company. I am also from this company I heard that Ye Group The long lost lady Just found it To arrange internship in the company Look at this girl, she's dressed gorgeously. And driving a luxury car Murphy That's her You are Miss Ye I am the manager of this company. You are new here Unfamiliar with the place Why not let me Let me take you to complete the appointment procedures. Hello everyone I am in the fashion design department New interns My name is Ye Xinrou Just call me Xiaorou Pheasant changes its name I want to be reborn I'm not Jiaojiao Come You also give everyone Introduce yourself Hello everyone I am from the University of Canberra, Australia Graduates It is also a group company Intern in the clothing department My name is Ye Jiaojiao Who ordered the takeaway? It's me Ordered coffee for everyone New Arrival I hope everyone will take good care of me. Let us thank Jiaojiao together Thank you Jiaojiao Have you heard? The long-lost Ye Group The young lady is back. and Recently joined our company Really Will that In our department Very likely. If I could be with Miss Making friends is a good thing. Yes, yes. I'm not asking the housekeeper Don't publicize it? How come you all know this? Jiaojiao You are not the Ye Group. The long lost daughter Miss Bar Ye Jiaojiao Impersonate me interesting I'd like to see you Making a fool of oneself Our Ye With the full support of Mrs. Ye Fashion Design Has always been the top in the industry This time, the men's high-end design Also our old customer Manager Gao, this time the high-end Can we newcomers join? Jiaojiao, good question Newcomers can certainly participate in the design This is also our Mrs. Ye's Consistent Purpose Design is everything The fabric pattern and color preferences What does the customer have What about special needs? You ask these How are the colleagues who are doing data measurement? Oh no You ask me about such small things? I'm here to answer you. This unprofessional Small problem? alright Next, two by two The best design will be selected Did you understand everything? Understood Goodbye oops Statistics Why are there so many? It's simply not done. Jiaojiao, give it to me I'll do it for you OK Thank you Then I'll go back first. You're welcome. See you tomorrow. Finally finished We'll go eat later. OK you Help Miss Jiaojiao Help Miss Jiaojiao Statistical data Give me before the order My own life Already done This is her business She should do it herself What is her identity? Ye Xinrou Don't be shameless Are you willing to curry favor with Ye Jiaojiao? That's your business Don't bother me. I feel unlucky Don't go How do you treat your seniors? Butler Ye Butler Ye is here to see you. Manager Ye You haven't finished get off work yet? Mr. Ye, Chairman of the Board Come to the company and have a look New employee appearance Chairman to new employees How thoughtful! Butler Ye Anything you want to know? You can ask me My new colleague and I The relationship is very good Is this colleague new? Working at Yip Group Are you still used to it? The company atmosphere is good Hey, I'm coming Among colleagues in the company We should help each other, right? Right, right, right Don't worry, Mr. Ye We will definitely Take good care of Miss Ye Yeah yes The company has always done well. For example, this sister She has been grabbing it today I have helped Jiaojiao twice. You said so, right? It's all about helping each other Help each other That being the case Sister, please help others to the end Send Buddha to the West I've finished my work anyway. Then I'll go first. See you tomorrow, Manager Gao Then you go ahead good Xie Guanjia Ye Butler, take care Slow Walk Perform well Missy Your coffee Miss Those people in the company How could I do that to you? I can't stand it anymore You said why did you Don't let me warn them. I am learning at the grassroots level Not just for From within the company Convenient for the future Better management company? Being treated as a little transparent Not better For both of them It's not worth exposing your identity You said so Or you are thoughtful Then I'll go down first. Wait a moment Let's not talk about them. Please help me see How about my design? This is all designed by you oops Perfectly inherited the wife's Design talent Great Miss Jiaojiao What a gift This design is ingenious Jianyi is much better than us Old designers are all great Rubbish It should be in the trash can. manager Even if you Don't appreciate my work At least you shouldn't trample it. Rubbish Don't deserve respect you Mr. Lin But I think This dress is well designed. Whether it is from the composition Or design This outfit is good. I like this one Mr. Lin is indeed A discerning eye recognizes real gold This design Our Miss Jiaojiao Collaborate with everyone The final design Manager, this is clearly me And round design How can you Take our blood Go and take credit for Jiaojiao Miss Jiaojiao has no merit That's also hard work, right? For this design draft All have overtime work Fishing at work When you take credit, you He's pretty thick-skinned and good at rubbing. Ye Xinrou Being so presumptuous in front of customers You have seriously violated Company Discipline I see your job. I don't want to do it anymore Now pack my things. Get out of here Ye Group has you like this A manager who doesn't know right from wrong Today's walk Not sure who it is yet. security guard No need for security I like this design very much I hope Manager Gao Raise your hand Just use her design Who do you think you are? You say to use it, so use it. Miss Jiaojiao Forgot to introduce you This is Mr. Lin Nan Heir to Maple Grove Group Mr. Lin Nan Maple Grove Group Isn't that the richest man in the neighboring city Longcheng? The Lin family's business? He is the richest man. The only son, Lin Nan Mr. Lin You have a unique vision. This design by Miss Ye Unremarkable The art of face changing It's perfect Mr. Lin Where are you talking about? How about this? I'll treat you to a meal later. Just for Apology for the offense just now No need I'm here just for work Manager Gao Take me to see Previous designs Okay then Then I'll let Miss Jiaojiao Explain to you Need not Just her Ms. Ye's design style Very interesting Thank you Mr. Lin for your affirmation Little\heart ah Don't move I'll help you Sorry, Mr. Lin. Be safe next time Wang Xiaorou Don't even think about it. The pheasant turns into a phoenix He is Lin Nan You can't reach it Eating in the bowl Look in the pot Don't break it. Wang Xiaorou I won't let you have an easy time Wow Xiaorou You are this time Our interns The best result There will definitely be no problem with this transfer. You are second Let's turn things around together. Let's work together in the future Ye Jiaojiao Zhao Yuan Submit a transfer application Ye Xinrou You can leave in the afternoon. manager The company's assessment results Obviously I am the tallest Why can't I turn around? Where is the fairness and justice of the company? I am fair I said who should be regularized Who can turn over What are you? Hey Ye Butler Manager Gao Ye Xinrou Why didn't it get corrected? She is in front of the client speak out Impact on our company Reputation abroad I didn't let her change. Who did she offend? Mr. Lin Linnan Mr. Lin Nan Clothing in the next three years They all asked her to design Manager Gao Who does practical work for the company? You should have a good idea Clearly understand I'll do it right away This Ye Xinrou Could it be another identity? Xiaorou Your transfer application form I'm in the HR department. I'll get it myself. And that Next week is family visit day Then remember to go to the HR department Register family information knew Everyone please register Family registration information Xiaorou is here Come come come sit down manager What can I do for you? Family meeting next week I see you didn't write anyone. Why is the family too busy? Still inconvenient They're usually not at home. Oh, that's right. Xiaorou hasn't heard you say that yet What do you do at home? They They are ordinary businessmen. I usually do some small business That's good That's good Nothing You go Oh, that's right. Work overtime tonight What customers want Haute couture design is finished before leaving Company Family Day visit next week You go with me. good you say Wang Xiaorou's adoptive parents Don't know yet She works for Yeh Group, right? That's Jiaojiao. Jiaojiao This is your husband, right? He is really handsome. Ah, just friends. Just Friends She is external Do not disclose my identity It seems my mom was right. The rice must be cooked as soon as possible Can't let her get away. Wow Jiaojiao, you are so beautiful today This is on my body The latest show How much does this cost? Show customization I have too many wardrobes This one is just for casual wear. I don't know how much Wow Jiaojiao is indeed the real The rich lady Master and Lady No time to return home Very guilty Old Slave I=I not UMPEG= But I'm worried that the lady will be wronged Being bullied You see Do you want me to go up with you? Butler Ye is too worried You are my family too. But I said Don't want to be in the company too early Exposing my identity good Then I'll wait for you here If you need anything, please feel free to contact us good Wang Xiaorou Didn't see You are so vain. Rented a luxury car Show off your wealth at the company How can she afford the rent? Maybe he's selling it. Dirty-minded people Everything looks dirty. You know how to sell? Have you sold it? you Ye Xinrou's clothes It seems like Jiaojiao It's a brand show model yes Jiaojiao I'm wearing last year's show style. She was wearing This year's show Really Clothes make the man, saddles make the horse Ye Xinrou dressed like this It's pretty nice She's a wild chicken Rent a luxury car and wear fake clothes You really treat her as Transformed into a Phoenix Jiaojiao what is Ye Xinrou Isn't it Wang Xiaorou? Changed the name You care about her so much Ask her yourself. Ask me why I didn't mean that. You listen to my explanation. BoA Jiaojiao You are all in my heart You have to believe me OK Then I'd like to see How do you show me your loyalty? Design by Ms. Xinrou It's really good This dress It fits very well. I like it very much Thank you Mr. Lin for your appreciation Zhang Hongwei, are you crazy? This is Ye Group This is not the place for you to fool around I'm gonna splash you. It's not him Did You Know He is a distinguished guest of Ye Group Mr. Lin, are you okay? Zhang Hongwei Do you have any insight? Hurry up! Apologize to Mr. Lin No, just pour it on him. A torn piece of clothing? I'll just compensate him. Are you okay? I'm fine OK Since you have to compensate Then I know This outfit I'm wearing Price: 5.8 million Miss Ye's high-end suit This is the new model on the catwalk this year. Price: 12 million Total 17.8 million May I ask this gentleman How to pay? Wang Xiaorou How could she Can afford to wear authentic goods This set on Xinrou It is authentic On the contrary Miss Jiaojiao is wearing this Why does it look more and more like a high imitation? Oh my god What Ye Jiaojiao wore It can't be fake. How is that possible? She is Ye Jiaojiao That's Lin Nan What brand of couture have you not seen? He identified It's definitely not wrong Wang Xiaorou Hongwei told me Your mother is at someone else's house. Be a confinement nanny Once just because Got kicked out for stealing This dress you're wearing She must have stolen it. This lady You are slandering others. Be careful, I'll call the police. Mr. Lin You mustn't be her The delicate appearance deceives She's not a good person. Okay It's all a misunderstanding Misunderstood Miss Jiaojiao Over there for you Prepared some desserts Why don't you take Mr. Zhang with you? Go try it Jiaojiao Get lost Jiaojiao All gone. All gone. Mr. Lin I see your clothes are wet too. Not as good as I'll take you there to deal with it. Good lead the way This way please Such a big company Wang Xiaorou really joined a big company This bitch Joining such a big company Making money without saying a word She must be Don't want to give us money mom See how I deal with her later. Ungrateful things Look at me today I won't deal with you well. How come you are here? You thought you were hiding it from us Worked in a big company Can throw us away Enjoy yourself Wang Xiaorou, don't forget How hard I worked Pull you up The wings are hard I want to leave after making money I tell you No door How can she have this Shrew family! It must be because Disobedient family members make trouble for her Um Pull me up I enjoy From childhood to adulthood What kind of work is not done by me? After my work Every money Not all of you Is the squeeze gone? Wang Xiaorou Watch out for you and your mother Attitude of speaking She is The mother who raised you The mother who raised me I completed nine years of compulsory education. Forced me to drop out of school and work Sell me to Zhang Hongwei at a high price High gift required The mother who bought your house? Wang Xiaorou He is your brother. How can you be so cold-blooded? No regard for family affection mom Don't talk nonsense to her. I look at her I just don't want to provide for your retirement. This bitch We need to teach you a lesson. Miss Ye left me It seems like there will be trouble I advise you to mind your own business. Adulterer and adulteress See how I teach you a lesson Oh my God bless you Let me see where you're hurt. mom It hurts It seems like a fracture Wang Xiaorou You must pay the money Wang Xiaorou This is what you hooked up with Good adulterer My son broke his hand. You have to pay 20 Oh no, 400,000 400,000 for an arm is not bad Good value Not as good as Knock off both hands and legs Give you a friendly price How about 2 million? No, no, no I'm fine. I'm fine. Are you waiting for me to call security? Get out of here! What are you so arrogant about? Mom, please don't, don't Forget it. Go Go Go Are you okay? Your face Xiaorou I'll take you to ice it. good Walk Mr. Lin, is your hand okay? Or I'll take you to see it. No need Or I'll take you Let's go see Xiaorou. Good Mr. Lin just You teach the bad guys a lesson So brave! Miss Jiaojiao Please respect yourself I don't want any self-respect Mr. Lin I just want to tell you I have liked you for a long time Can you Look back at me There are no outsiders here You don't have to pretend with me. Ye Jiaojiao Yes I like me I still like my money I think you know better than me You let go now I can still Pretend nothing happened I don't want Mr. Lin Don't I even I don't have the qualifications to like you Don't let go, right? Don't force me to be violent Mr. Lin Don't you understand Be kind to women? Ms. Ye Please take care of yourself I praise this brooch Nice design Mr. Lin gave it to me. Mr. Lin is so generous to you. Still our Jiaojiao So charming today Thank you for helping me out. I'm tired after a day of hard work. If Miss Ye really wants to thank me Better to enjoy Let's have a meal together Flowing water banquet at hot spring villa Tastes good I don't know Miss Ye Are you free tonight? Hot Spring Villa Isn't it my family's property? I live there now. If I go with Lin Nan The identity will definitely be exposed. Mr. Lin's kindness is hard to refuse But I did today There are other things Next time Miss Ye refused to honor me Then this time I went there by myself first Next time there is a chance Miss Ye can't Reject me again Words are set Words are set Oh my god She just was Did you reject Lin Nan? That's the richest man Lin Nan This dinner opportunity How many people can't ask for it? She just refused. Heard Flowing water banquet at hot spring villa It's really delicious And the tickets are expensive District Hot Spring Villa Tickets Only How much is it worth? Buy a house there You can take a hot spring bath every day. How expensive is the house price over there? Who can afford it? My home is over there There is a suite. If this weekend If you have time, I invite everyone to take a hot spring bath together Wow Ye Jiaojiao is also in the hot spring villa Have you bought a house? Ke Hot Spring Villa 36 owners Except my home There is no one with the last name Ye anymore Look at you A pitiful look Then I'll do it reluctantly Let me show you the world. Isn't this my home? How is Ye Jiaojiao? I brought everyone here. Welcome to visit my home Wow Jiaojiao Your house is too big It's so luxurious and beautiful. This villa in Hot Spring Villa Just my home One of many properties Decoration Just ordinary next time I'll take you to visit The one at Sea-Lago International Sea View Villa Sea-Lago International I heard the house prices there are They all started with hundreds of millions. Especially the Royal Garden That set is also mine. Sea-Lago International Royal Garden Isn't it my house too? How come she became Ye Jiaojiao's again? Jiaojiao is a rich lady What are a few villas? Even the company is owned by her family. Jiaojiao, I'll go to your house next time. Yes or no You can meet the chairman now. They are abroad now. If there is a chance in the future I will definitely recommend it to you Just pretend to be me Even my parents' whereabouts Everyone knows Ye Jiaojiao Who are you? How do you know so much about my family? Ye Jiaojiao You said this is your home But before I When I came here How come I haven't seen you? Wang Xiaorou, stop bragging. Just like you Lowly country bumpkin How could you have come to my house? You The gate on the mountain of Lian Hot Springs Can't get in Since you said this is your home Lead the way I'd like to see No Key How do you get in? My front door Ye Xinrou Keep your eyes open Take a good look Such a beautiful villa You can only satisfy your eyes Then please Miss Jiaojiao Take us well Take a look What do you want to eat and drink at home? Eat whatever you want only Don't move the furnishings at home. My parents like to collect antiques It's broken, I can't tell I can't explain it clearly, but I still can't afford it. Humph, a country bumpkin like you Indeed, I work for a lifetime. Can't afford it This fan Is this Master Qi's authentic work? If I remember correctly Market value: more than 20 million I didn't expect you to be so knowledgeable. Master Qi's original work You all know Why This sofa is a high-end foreign custom But It's better than this fan A lot cheaper Only about 10 million You Don't break this sofa. Just a sofa If it breaks, it breaks. Blue and white porcelain tea set Real antiques You, be careful. Don't break it when pouring water. otherwise I can't even afford to sell you. Ye Xinrou, are you done yet? Is this my home or yours? You need to be here Pointing fingers What's going on? Ye Jiaojiao seems like an outsider yes Xiaorou seems to be very familiar with this place More like the owner of this house Are you sick? Don't forget I brought you here to visit. Besides I don't care What antiques and calligraphy and paintings These It's just my parents' hobby. Only Ye Xinrou This country bumpkin I will do my homework on purpose That's it. Real rich people Don't care about the price Rich people only care about value never mind There's nothing nice to see at home. Take you to the garage Look at the car. Just finished looking at the car Let's go to the hot springs Sorry to borrow it. Very good I've long wanted to see Jiaojiao's luxury car Why hasn't it arrived yet? Almost there. Almost there. Just north Here we are Ye Jiaojiao You mean the hot spring resort? Is this your home? How do you connect the route? I can't remember clearly Hello, isn't it? You find a garage Still need navigation? I'm not good at directions. Usually the driver takes me. The villa is so big I don't remember where the garage is. Xiaorou How come you are here? Miss Jiaojiao said she would take us Go north to visit the luxury car garage garage Garage at the villa Isn't it in the west? Oh yeah Since the garage is on the west side It's a bit far indeed. Of course I know it's far away The driver always took me there before. The villa is so big How do I know where the garage is? We don't go to the garage anymore. Let's go to the hot springs. Then you lead the way. Yeah, here But The hot spring seems to be here Further than the garage Wang Xiaorou Don't think you have one My mother works for a rich family. Know a few roads It can change The Nature of a Redneck That's better than some people. In your own home Can't find the way? so Xinrou, are you planning to go to the hot springs? It's still a long way from here Why don't you get in the car? I'll take you there. OK Can ride in Mr. Lin's car I'm so lucky. Hot spring staff Everyone knows me Now past The identity is exposed No, I can't go. Thank you Mr. Lin for your kindness. but I'm not in a good mood today I won't go with you guys. That's a pity. Uh, I'm still thinking We have so many friends Why don't we go take a hot spring bath together? Relax Why Mr. Lin, she is not going We can go. Can you take us there? I suddenly remembered I have some unfinished work. Ms. Ye So familiar with this place We are all neighbors, I guess. Next time we will meet Let's take a hot spring bath together Hey Mr. Lin Mr. Lin Ye Xinrou You've offended Mr. Lin. Why don't you let us Make it convenient Take Mr. Lin's car that is What does it have to do with me? Didn't you hear him say that? He has a job inconvenient Ye Xinrou I'm so kind. I just wanted to bring you here to open your eyes. Get out of here now You are not welcome at the hot spring resort Yeah, get out of here. People not welcome at the hot spring resort It's you. Hey Hot Spring Villa is closed today No one is allowed in Ye Xinrou Don't think You have the same last name as me, Ye She's the hostess here. You called Take a break when you want Why Jiaojiao Didn't you say today Do you want to take your friends to a hot spring bath? I'm sorry Mom just received a notification The villa is closed today No outsiders are welcome Could it be that Wang Xiaorou In the hot spring resort There are relatives Mostly with The housekeeper has a relationship. It's all my mom's fault. Ye Jiaojiao Get out of my territory Um The housekeeper just called me. The hot springs are being cleaned today. I can't receive guests. We won't take a hot spring bath today. ah I thought Can I take a hot spring bath for free? I bought my swimsuit myself Hey, what are you talking about? Isn't it just a hot spring bath? Look at you Never seen the world I'll take you to dinner. My treat You're not allowed to go I don't want to go either. You can choose whatever you want to eat. My treat Even though I'm not going. But I can give you Recommend a place The Imperial Capital Group Seafood Feast It is also an industry of the Ye Group. I heard it tastes good. That's the one Consumption threshold A store worth 200,000 yuan Jiaojiao Since they are all Ye's property You take us Go eat once? this Yes, Jiaojiao We can't afford it ourselves Please take us there once. Wang Xiaorou, you are so cruel Big deal Ask Zhang Hongwei to pay the bill Okay, it's my treat today. Take you to eat Eat as you like Wish you a pleasant meal I'm sorry, Miss. I didn't discipline him well. Woodworms are everywhere I don't blame you. but There is indeed a thief in this house. Miss Zhou What? Sorry Miss Sorry, Mr. Butler. F point active frizzy Never mind. Be more careful next time. Thank you Miss Thank you Miss etc. Do you have any other instructions? Miss Zhou You are at Ye's house She must be an old maid. Working at the host's house Keep your hands and feet clean This is the simplest truth You should understand. I understand Don't let me find out What are your questions? Even if you and Master Relationship By then I won't keep you either. knew Go down Jiaojiao The owner is at home recently. You should come less often in the future. Oh, I know. Do you have money? You want money again? Why Your dad and I just got our salaries. A total of 20,000 Give me all Why Don't go through the door. The owners are all at home. And Jiaojiao Recently we No longer can I leave my master's house Borrowed something secretly Even Butler Ye suspects me knew Are you annoying? Miss, look who's here. Soft Heart mom mom More than 20 years Mom finally found you. I'm back, mom. Just go home dad It's good to be back I heard you are now Internship at the company Yeah, now I am an intern. Get started And it has achieved some success Take over the company A lot of design lists Working from the bottom It's a good thing Your dad and I Support your idea Thank you, Mom and Dad You are at Zhang's The grievances suffered Mom knows everything mom Things of the past I don't want to mention it anymore Zhang family is blind How dare I humiliate you like that? This hatred Dad will help you report dad Meet that family It's my bad luck Things that happened later I don't want to mention it anymore So as not to cause trouble again All up to you According to me Meet a jerk like that Your adoptive parents are assholes. They didn't let you see What kind of person A good man Only then will you jump into such a fire pit You are right. So your life event The two of us I will strictly control it for you. dad I don't want to get married anymore This child Your father and I I can't always be with you For a lifetime You Gotta find a good man Accompany you Your father and I I arranged a blind date for you. I'm not going Ouch oops lady Xiaorou Your mother is doing this for your own good. You should at least take a look. Mom, don't worry. I'll go. I'll go. Lin Chairman said We have guests at home tonight Let you go home early after get off work What distinguished guest? Is it an old man? Arranged a blind date for me again Card thread generation E on | inside E already = ten T Talk to him I'm working overtime tonight No time to go The chairman said If you don't go back He will give you your bank card number. All frozen Kids tricks I work independently So many years Even if all my assets are frozen 100 million reserve funds I still got it out. The chairman also said If you insist on not going back Big deal He became the player's treasurer. By then He brought his whole family All went traveling All the things about this company All left to you Don't you like working overtime? Tired you to death Chairman Still the one who understands you best well Now I'm forcing you to date me After that Don't force me to get married and have children Lin As the saying goes Every policy has its own countermeasures Chairman Just to let you go on a date I didn't force you. Do you have to marry him? You can go and see it when you get there If it doesn't work, forget it. Good If you have anything to say, just tell me face to face. Who is it this time? I heard she is the eldest daughter of the Ye family. Miss Ye Dating is not my intention Because of the face of the elders in the family So I came to see you. Ms. Ye ah I'm really sorry Ye Jiaojiao I already have someone I like That's it most I am too anyway Forced by parents to go on a blind date In this case Then I'm leaving It's you I didn't expect Miss Ye Same as me They will also be arranged to go on blind dates by their families. Unexpectedly The elegant young man of Lin Group The richest man in Longcheng Will also be forced to go on a blind date by the family Family pressure Fate has come It's really unstoppable. Soft Heart You don't know The moment I saw you How happy I am Fortunately it's you Soft Heart Can I hold your hand? Soft heart I met Mr. Lin yesterday. How does it feel? well enough Then do you want Try to date rest assured Mom will never force you. Forcing you to make friends with him That I'll give it a try Chairman wants to ask very good ah Ye Xinrou is very good Go back and tell the old man His vision in choosing a daughter-in-law very nice Excuse me, who is Miss Ye? Which pursuer is this? They all came to the company I am Miss Ye Lin Nan Jiaojiao I didn't expect you to be so fast Just take down Mr. Lin That's not Who can resist us? The charm of a beautiful lady The Ye Group The fake identity of the rich lady It's really useful Even Mr. Lin I dare not offend the Ye family easily. The flower was taken away by Jiaojiao Don't send it to the company next time. I am currently I don't want to reveal my identity yet good The man I like There's no way to escape My palm Jiaojiao This is the owner from overseas Brought back the best bird's nest Mom left a bowl for you. Okay, put it there. Mom's going to be busy now. Hey wait Mrs. Ye returned from abroad Should give it to her daughter Brought a lot of brand-name clothes and bags Fortunately you came If I were a step later You are Ye Jiaojiao Entangled You said the flowers were taken away I'll give it to you again Bought a bunch Thanks What's wrong The dress Why does it look so familiar? Oh, I remember. This dress belongs to my mother. Bought it to me before Foreign high-end How did she get it? This Ye Jiaojiao Impersonating me And find someone to hang out in my house That's all. Now even my clothes All must steal It seems that this thief in my house It's a must to get rid of it So you want to date? Still want to catch a thief Date first Catch the thief again Aunt Zhou No one told you Is stealing Dongyou illegal? Miss, please listen to my explanation. I'd like to see What else do you want to argue? Master and Madam It's not what you think During this period You stole my Clothes and bags Even let you My husband is a driver Take the luxury car out Support your daughter These piles one by one What wronged you? Initially I misjudged you. snort I'm really confused Thinking back to your family He is the most miserable person in the village. My heart softened I took you two in. Come to my house Unexpectedly He was a thief in my house. Lord, I I'm sorry Please Miss Zhou Don't let the master You're having trouble with your wife, right? alright For you and my dad For the sake of fellow countrymen I won't care this time. I didn't call the police. but I want now I tell you solemnly you Fired It's all my mom's fault. It made me take the bus. It's not efficient to do things It hurts me to go to work Almost late Ms. Ye Why is it so late today? I didn't see you driving here. The driver brought me here today. He just left Ms. Ye The company's top management has Opportunities for advancement Have you heard? That's it. Ms. Ye The time you entered the company I am taller than someone I've always been kind to you. I don't know Miss Ye Can In front of the chairman and his wife Say something nice for me OK but I have something I need you to help me solve this. Um Go back Garment Sample Room We need to take two close-up shots. good Ye Xinrou, don't you have eyes? This is you Hit Besides, this road is so wide. You're clearly trying to blackmail me. Just say it straight you Ye Xinrou, what are you doing? If it weren't for you, Miss Jiaojiao How can I get burned? What's the matter? You can all rely on me Is it today? If Ye Jiaojiao farted You can blame me I went out without checking the almanac. Ye Xinrou What is your attitude now? Things that have nothing to do with me What attitude do you want from me? Good you A sharp-tongued country bumpkin If you are not upright Your attitude Then I can only use Your own method I'll deal with you. Ye Xinrou I'm officially informing you now You were fired For no reason Who wants to fire someone? Chairman lady What wind brings you here? Chairman's Wife I am giving to the company Clean up the mess future trouble Who is the problem? I see this little girl You work very seriously. Since she joined Also brought it to the company Many businesses Xiao Gao You are not objective. Chairman It's not that I'm not objective. It's Missy Don't like this girl Let me figure it out Get her away Xiao Gao What did you say? She is not my daughter. Chairman's Wife You won't make a mistake, will you? Bastard You got your daughter wrong. Ye Jiaojiao It's been so long. Rich Lady Today I came before the Lord Instead, I became timid. What nonsense are you talking about? When did I say I am a rich lady now. They are all high managers He misunderstood himself. you Ye Jiaojiao These days Who has been hinting at me? I am a rich lady. You are talking nonsense When did I say I am the daughter of the Ye family. You bitch Let me go asshole Enough Ye's employment I always value character More emphasis on ability You two Trend-seeking A very vain Abacus My daughter has it. Start now You two No need to come to work anymore Chairman lady I told you not to come to the company. I'm sorry you saw these dirty things. I'm fine It's really unlucky Ah, it's over. It's all over How come you are here? I'll pick you up from get off work. Ye Xinrou It made me lose my job And stole my man I will kill you sooner or later Xinrou, are you sleepy? I ordered coffee for you. Thank you How much is the coffee I'll transfer it to you No, no, no Soft heart I heard that after Manager Gao left The company intends to Select an old employee Take his place Do you know this? Internal selection of the company How would I know? But you are not What am I? this Ye Jiaojiao It wasn't pretending some time ago. The chairman's daughter So now everyone is guessing Are you really rich? Sister Zeng What if you have that time? Better go to work This just in case If you recognize the wrong person again Although there is Rumor has it Chairman's daughter It's working at our grassroots level. But he didn't say In our department. I just said it You don't look like that either. Coffee 28 WeChat transfer me Go home late today Wang Xiaorou Long time no see Ye Jiaojiao How come you are here? Yellow Hair You haven't tried it The taste of a good woman Let me give you some meat today you I warn you Don't mess around. I tell you If you want money I can give you money. Yo Dressed like a schoolgirl How many coins can I have in my pocket? It's better to accompany my brother Brother is happy Maybe I can give you 200 yuan Where to go Come to me Let me go, let me go Dare to touch my woman court death Big Brother Big Brother I won't dare to do it again. Never again roll Good good good Are you okay? Pooh nausea Ye Jiaojiao Even if the identity is revealed There is no need to do this Let yourself fall How about I call a car for you? Put away your hypocritical face I don't need It's really unreasonable Don't talk nonsense with her. Let's go Where is that man just now? Gone long ago Wait, you bunch of cowards. What do you want to do? What do you want to do? What do you want to do? Let me go Congratulations Congratulations to Director Ye Soft Heart I just said it You are so capable at work. This promotion should be yours. Thanks According to the company's arrangement In the department manager What about the missing period? I will take over his job temporarily The one behind me now This week's Job Description You can take a quick look There will be a bidding meeting at the end of the month That's right This one This month, Key Work Next we will First-tier sports brand Yisu Achieve joint cooperation This one Yes, we must The bid that was won Let's do our best together In this case I can apply for everyone Annual Bonus good Jiaojiao Jiaojiao How come you're still pregnant? ah What do you think we should do? You haven't gotten married yet. You still What about unmarried girls? Okay, okay. I'm so annoyed. Will it ever end? Isn't she pregnant? What a big deal oops You said you were bullied. If you don't say it, I won't say it. It's over. Coco's belly is getting bigger I can't hide it from anyone. You haven't married yet You say this out Let me talk to your dad But how to be a human being? snort Then my dad Fired by the boss How can I be a human being if I tell others about it? Jiaojiao How can you talk like that? I'm with your dad Works well Who is it for? Only ended up like this Okay, okay. Are you annoying? Look Isn't this someone He came to my door to be my father. How about it Great Hate Hongwei This is the first time for someone You have to treat people well. Of course Jiaojiao. You treated me some time ago Hot and cold I thought I'm about to lose you If I hadn't caught it Lin Nan's Big Fish I am so beautiful How can it be your turn to ruin it? That Hongwei brother People are so nice to you. Will you marry me? Jiaojiao The person I've always thought about It's you If you want We'll go get the certificate tomorrow. good But today We're not done yet Mom and Dad, this is Lin Nan Uncle and aunt First meeting A place where etiquette is not good Please forgive me You kid So polite What's the bad manners? Thinking back then Me and his mother I want you two to meet each other. Xinrou is still not happy Look Now this is not Are you getting along well? Yes, this is a perfect match. Me Can't wait I want to give you a grandson. Soft Heart My first time attending a bidding meeting A bit nervous rest assured We prepared this time So full Even if the king of heaven comes It can't stop us Win this cooperation this This is not before Ye Jiaojiao The one brought into the company adulterer I just said it Looks like a Kidney deficiency This is Zhang Hongwei Are you taking it too far? Why do you plagiarize? My student works Your company No more designers? Wang Xiaorou Do you have any shame? Don't think we were married. You from my company Steal the blueprints You can frame me like this you Jiaojiao is indeed my treasure Once this plan came out Definitely have the best chance of winning You stole my work. I can not argue with you But the copyright of my work I must take it back. Today is Yisu Group's bidding meeting We both speak with strength. strength What strength do you have? You think You joined the Ye Group Became a small supervisor This is called strength Speaking of strength I am now The son-in-law of the Ye Group Is he the one? The mysterious daughter of Ye Group Boy friend What boyfriend? That's called a live-in son-in-law I'm telling you They are engaged son in law Zhang Hongwei Don't go too far. Yo You are against me You dare to me now You're yelling and shouting, right? I think you deserve a beating. security guard Take this garbage Throw it out to me What Let me go Congratulations to Ms. Ye Xinrou Yip Group This joint cooperation won the bid Very good Walk Thank you Mr. Lin Congratulations on your success Ms. Ye Thanks You try your best not to give up It's really beautiful This haute couture dress is so beautiful We get married Do you want to wear this? How much Inexpensive Just over 2 million What's wrong? It's too expensive? Damn old woman Really can spend money If not for You are Ye's daughter The devil will buy it for you Inexpensive How much does it cost you? I am willing purchase husband I know You were bullied today. It was Wang Xiaorou That bitch bullied me And you Do you want revenge? Hey, what are you doing? I'm going to call the police. Brother-in-law God Bless Why is it you? Brother-in-law Fortunately, you are here Otherwise, those people For just a few thousand dollars Almost beat me to death ah Do you have any money? Lend me 10,000 yuan I just need one I definitely can Win back the money with profit I said God bless you You are such an adult Thousands of dollars in my pocket All gone? Go find your sister. Your sister now Working at Yip Group She has money She has money She will give me flowers Listen to me Your sister has been promoted now. Annual salary of 500,000 What This bitch I didn't tell my family about the money I made. See how I deal with her when I get back Thank you. I'm leaving now. Go ahead Originally one speed You are the largest shareholder Then I can win the bid Is it also because What does it have to do with me? There are so many referees present You are based on Winning the bid with your own strength Yeah That's good You try your best not to give up It's really beautiful Missy Excuse me What's the matter? Missy Madam, look The weather is quite hot recently. Asked the kitchen to make some Cooling tea Mr. Lin How about giving you some? Get rid of the fire We'll be there in a minute. I will go good Then I'll prepare Mr. Lin Otherwise we go first etc. Just send it here Going forward To be seen by colleagues good Listen to you Send me a message when you get off work I'm waiting for you here good Good bye kiss I am sick Wang Xiaorou doesn't care about me This unfilial woman She wants me to die. Please, journalists, Help I am an old woman. I can't survive Big Brothers and Big Sisters You must help us My mother has a hard time Raised my sister She's working now. Make money Instead, he ignored us. Please give us your judgement Son We have a hard life. mom It's all my sister's fault for being ungrateful. She ignores you. Come and see The ungrateful one This is what a bitch looks like Everyone remember Isn't this Wang Xiaorou? Wang Tianyou What are you going to do? when Have you had enough of this? sister It's not that we want to make trouble Our mother is sick. The doctor said no more treatment She won't live more than a month. Do you have any more Bottom line Look at her A rosy face It doesn't look like a disease. I can have now It's all thanks to your brother. Sold a kidney Did you just pay for my medical expenses? Selling a Kidney Selling kidney is not because He was in gambling debt. What does it have to do with me? Do you have any shame? Oh my daughter You don't want to recognize me This can't be done. Denigrating your brother brute You are an unfilial daughter brute You are an unfilial daughter You're not hurt, are you? Why did this person leave? Don't hit me. Don't hit me. I confess Someone instructed someone Let me make trouble who explain A young man I was just here. never mind Even if no one is caught I also know who it is You mean Zhang Hongwei He makes things difficult for you time and again What do you want to do? If you want to know Why not just ask for something ready-made? oops Wang Xiaorou I can't tell. A bit of skill I want money again. Speak How much do you want this time? Ask for money Wang Xiaorou You look down on people too much. What we want More than just money You're sitting in the office. Have some strength in your hands Arrange a job for your brother Let me explain first Five social insurances and one housing fund are a must The benefits should be good As for the salary? I am not greedy either 30,000 to 50,000 per month You can do whatever you want. Wang Tianyou You have a degree Still have connections I need to have education and connections Do I need you? that is My son is so outstanding. If you have education and connections How can others live? OK Any other requests? You want to change the car? Which series of BMW I don't know BMW 7 Series Oh, yes, yes. And the house Your brother hasn't married yet. Our old house is too old I have to change him anyway. A large flat in the city You two It's not dark yet I started dreaming Wang Xiaorou Watch how you treat my mom Believe it or not, I'll beat you I tell you Other things I don't have But your work I can arrange it Basement guard 6,000 per month Love to do it or not Hey Wang Xiaorou You are insulting me security guard Take him out to me. Wang Xiaorou You don't give money, right? Okay, wait for me. Big deal I will come here every day from now on Let's see who can outlast whom. Mom, go. How come your family is like this? Can't get money I will mobilize netizens to cyberbully you And find someone to expose your information How can they do this? I see Someone must have taught them. This bitch Just ask for money Dare to launch cyber violence that is It's a fake hand. It's also scary. We are gentle A girl's home How can I bear this? Old Man You should think of a solution quickly. In my opinion, the best solution for now I can only admit my heart is soft I do not agree Soft Heart Your information is all exposed. Now they Give you a fake prop Two days later Oh, I don't even dare to think about it. If now Recognize me rashly That That will only make them Becoming a complete leech Xinrou is right. Leave it to me My own business I'll take care of it There is 200,000 yuan in this card It's been my job since All savings It's me and you two. Severing the mother-child relationship How can it be so cheap? No problem. As long as the money is in place We have nothing to do with each other Wait a moment This is the agreement Effective after signing Wang Xiaorou You're serious How can you be so cold-blooded? 200,000 yuan is enough to end it My gratitude for your upbringing Where's your conscience? 500,000 good 500,000 is 500,000 Sign it Something's wrong with Wang Xiaorou This is already me All savings What else do you want? Even if I borrow money I'll give you money too. I must have other cards. Take it out What are you doing I don't Wang Xiaorou, you plotted against me Hey, bring it to me. Looking for trouble, right? stop sorry I'm late fine Now they beat my evidence I also mastered In this case Even if they Use public opinion to pressure me I'm not afraid anymore How dare you take this risk? Are you stupid? Drag the little one out and beat him up Send him to the hospital to have a good rest Keep it up and continue fighting Beat him until he dares not to cause trouble As for the old ones? Send it to Africa. Just do as you say. Lin Nan It's great to have you Are you scared today? Rest early Then I'll go first Can soak in Lin Nan Interesting, sister. You are the star Gao Yichen wrong yes Great Star Why are you coming to my house? Your home Don't you know Is this my home? Yo Chenchen is back Soft and happy heart This is your brother. mom My sister seems I don't recognize my brother. mom I really don't know I have a brother You were kidnapped back then Your dad and I I can't find you I recognize your uncle's family. The youngest son is adopted Really Your mother can't find you. I'm so sad I can't live anymore I just made this decision fortunately Fortunately, our family is kind-hearted. Now I'm back We are a family. Finally, we are reunited mom You can't have a daughter. You forgot about your son How old is this child? You're still jealous of your sister. I don't care I also want my mother's preference Unexpected I actually have a brother What did you say without nothing Hey Chenchen This time back How long do you plan to stay? moon Half a year ah This time I can be at home Staying for so long? yes mom You always disliked me The time I spend with you is too short Why is Xinrou back now? Instead, I feel Staying at home too long How dare I dislike you? You don't go out to film every time. How long does it take to shoot? Why What a coincidence This time we shot it locally That's great. Then you have to come back more Accompany your sister. No problem Soft Heart The adopted son of a wealthy family Most of them are sick Or just a cute appearance Sickly at heart Attacking the mind What are their methods? Can be used To win favor They use whatever means Not for the family property. What they lack more is love After all, he's an adopted son. What I lack the most since I was a child It's the love of family members. For the sake of property, for love They will do whatever it takes Right, right, right What kind of false accusation of poisoning and murder? oops Anything can be done How to say Like a palace drama Isn't it just palace fighting? To be precise It should be called Zhaidou Not really. That's what the novel says. You are not rich, you don't understand Oh, the real situation It's much more exciting than this This is getting more and more outrageous. You I'd better read less novels. Lao Zhang It's rare to invite me to dinner Old classmates, reminiscing about the past Come Hey, let me tell you This is the best Moutai If you hadn't come I still don't want to drink it. T Then today we can I won't go home until I'm drunk. Don't go home until you are drunk Old schoolmate There are so many people in our class. You are the best at mixing Now they are big stars Why My wife I watch your drama every day. oh You are married That's not The eldest daughter of the Ye Group You should know me. Indeed know Why Don't talk about this I need your help with something. I heard that your endorsement It's due, right? That's what happened. So Can you To our company Clothing brand endorsement The cost is easy to say Well Now? Several companies are asking But what about the right of endorsement? I'm not very good at making decisions yet I know this Other company matters I can handle it But what about Yeh Group? A bit tricky Your wife is not Yeah She is Miss Ye Group But She doesn't allow me to take shortcuts not to mention I and Ye Group The designer also had a quarrel Now I have to compete with her I'm afraid it's difficult. Their designers Isn't it Ye Xinrou? Yes, also called Wang Xiaorou It turned out to be my ex-wife Let's not talk about this anymore Old schoolmate Today is busy Can you help me? He doesn't know Ye Xinrou's identity Ex-wife? What about the current one? Kind of interesting help I will definitely help That's settled then. Cheers to you Gao Yichen Why are you in my office? Respect for elders Ye Xinrou I have to remind you You should call me elder brother elder brother It's office hours now I know That You can from my office Leave? I can't come to you Want to talk about work? Ye Xinrou You don't want to get A big order from Xinchen Films? yes Don't you know The largest shareholder of Xinchen Films Is it me? Our company's artists I won't wear this kind of garbage. You are not angry elder brother actually You tell me Your artist What kind of design do you like? Now that you've spoken Then I will teach you well. Um Are you busy? I've already gotten off work, but you haven't left yet. I'm quite busy at work today Why don't you go back first? Don't wait for me Just right I have some unfinished work. Let me work overtime with you Who is willing to work overtime with me? Isn't this to accompany you? It's a pleasure to work overtime with you Wait until you are done I'll take you to eat delicious food Yeah Let's go Soft Heart Doctor's instructions You're overworked. after No more all-night work. Oh, this is not a tight time. The task is heavy. What mission Worth risking your body Is it a certain company? I'm picking on you again. you tell me I'll help you solve it rest assured My own business I can solve it myself Walk Wang Xiaorou What are you doing in the hospital? Why can she come to the hospital? Treat infertility Aunt Zhang You still talk like that mean I am just Just telling the truth Wang Xiaorou Look at Ye Jiaojiao Not only good background Good health Not long after entering the door I got pregnant Zhang Hongwei One minute skill Jiaojiao I really wronged you. Wang Xiaorou Are you looking for death? Pooh Shameless woman Such obscene words You said it all And slandered my son You are the one who doesn't lay eggs Old hen It is I can't lay eggs That Jiaojiao will lay eggs That's all right. you This Miss Ye Don't force me to lay hands on a woman. Lin Don't be fooled by Wang Xiaorou This bitch cheated Although she has a bit of foxy skills But it can't cover up She can't pass on the family line. It's true Lin Nan I know you have money But I tell you Money is not everything That's right What if I have money? Marry Wang Xiaorou This woman comes in Your family will be extinct sooner or later I really don't want to hit a woman. But if I don't do it I can't protect you. My Woman you How dare you hit someone? you Lin Things you don't like Of course, the secretary will do it for you. This husband Come on up! Just looking at him Bullying my mother and wife? What kind of man is this? We can't afford to offend You're a piece of trash Oh my god Come and have a look Young people have no moral principles Bullying the old, weak and disabled Beat someone up I was beaten and my bones were broken oops Mom, stop making trouble They are not ordinary people. It will really break your bones. Get up quickly Lin Nan I tell you Today is us A happy day for the Zhang family I don't know you guys. Wife mom Let's go Walk Don't be afraid I am here Lin Nan Some things I'm really hiding it from you. As you can see I do. Had a marriage But I am in this marriage Not happy You don't have to tell me these I can see that too. I also know Before you return to the Ye family In Zhang's and Wang's How much suffering have you endured? Zhang Hongwei and I 3 years of marriage Couldn't give birth to a child. Maybe he's right. I can't give birth at all But I think this matter You need to know If you mind You can go now I won't blame you What are you thinking about? Now you have 3 seconds I asked my assistant to buy flowers There was no time to set up the venue. fortunately Carry your wedding ring with you so Proposal Ceremony Just keep it simple Soft Heart will you marry me Lin Nan You are I know you're insecure. I am willing to protect you Give you a sense of security You are afraid that you are not in good health Can't have children At worst, we will Adopt one. No matter how bad it is We can also raise Lots of cats and dogs Don't you feel regretful? Can't marry you This is my life Biggest regret Soft Heart I really love you IT I want to live forever With you I do I'll be with you till old age so will you marry me Parents, brother I want to you Share a good news Look Lin Nan proposed to me Girl How does Lin Nan treat you? very good You Can find happiness again Your father and I will feel relieved. Since we're getting married It should be announced to the outside world It's time for your identity head You are our Ye family My only daughter When getting married I will never treat you unfairly. Thank you, Mom and Dad Congratulations, sister Found a Good backer Master Coffee is coming Where is Ye Xinrou? Back to Master Miss early in the morning Just go to work Listen to you She is quite diligent. Miss has always been Dedicated What about colleagues in the company? She also has a high voice And she perfectly inherited it. Mrs.'s design talent Designed by him Demand outstrips supply Listen to what you mean Capable and clever And Lin Nan is the backer After this, the family business She must inherit it. Grandpa You are What's the meaning How many advantages does she have? I don't care What I want to know is In your Butler Ye's heart How many shortcomings does she have? Lao Gao Look at our company's design. That's better to wait. have a look Tell you back Clothing brand endorsement How are you thinking about it? I'll think about it again What else are you considering? I won't treat you unfairly. Old schoolmate If you follow our company Sign endorsement What conditions do you want? What do you say? The endorsement fee is easy to talk about. There is a company Talking to me was good. I'll meet her today. How much money did their company pay? I'll double it for you Isn't that the end? Speak of the devil and he will appear They are coming Gao Yichen You are kidding me Good sister You're getting married soon My brother gave you a big gift Gao Yichen Are you kidding me? Yes, Gao Yichen Why did you call her over? Okay, Yichen. Stop being mysterious. Just tell the truth to Xinrou. These These are all old manuscripts from his company. During this period He invaded your old manuscript Sneak Attack Your Design You fucking bitch me You're violating my family I'll help them calculate you. What else can I do? What can you do to me? etc. What is going on? This kid's dream But when you become an international star The most frightening thing is Inheriting the family business Meet you like this A sister with a strong sense of career He will definitely do it for you Clear away all obstacles How is Xinrou? I'm giving you this gift. Are you satisfied? Satisfied Quite satisfied Yichen Xiaorou's wedding gift is here What about mine? I see You three Are you guys ganging up to bully me? I Zhang Hongwei The weather is cooler It's time for you to go bankrupt today We want to Media reporters present Solemnly introduce she That's what we did more than 20 years ago The stolen daughter Ye Xinrou Hello everyone I am Ye Xinrou There are recent rumors that Ye's company appeared Heir disputes Is this true? Yes, please answer. Chenchen and Xinrou Very good relationship So it doesn't exist The question of succession so Heir to the Ye Group Only a soft heart Mr. Ye I heard that Ye Group Miss Xinrou Found it back Why at this point Announce the recognition of kinship? Xinrou, this girl Don't like high profile If it weren't for the upcoming wedding She originally I don't want to reveal my identity to the public. Then Mr. Ye Can you tell me Miss Xinrou's Sweetheart Who is The richest man in the neighboring city of Longcheng Lin Nan Mr. Lin Like Xinrou They are all young and promising Young people Miss Ye and Mr. Lin Is it free love? Or family marriage? I will answer this question What an ungrateful person Recognize the rich parents Kill the adoptive parents Ye Xinrou You stole my life. I should be Rich Lady Wang Tianyou Let's join forces Ye Jiaojiao Happy cooperation 5 million gambling debt If you can't get it back today Don't want these hands. Big Brother You let me go I will definitely give you the money I will definitely give it to you Mr. Lin Nan Please ask you Whether poor or rich Health or disease Are willing to marry Ms. Ye Xinrou Love her Protect her forever? I do Ms. Ye Xinrou Please ask you Whether poor or rich Health or disease Are willing to marry Mr. Lin Nan Love him and respect him forever? I do Bride and Groom You can now exchange rings Now the bride and groom You can kiss each other now Congratulations Happily Ever After Good sister This found the parents Find a good man The Wang family that raised you Forgot Wang Tianyou Me and the Wang Family There is no relationship anymore What are you doing here? elder sister You come from the richest family. Married to a rich man I today I'll take millions from you. Not too much. Are you in gambling debt? Once I already Gave you a lot of money Me and the Wang Family There is no relationship anymore That little money is not enough to spend What about the beggar? I don't want much today. 5 million Give me, I'll leave now. No No good Don't blame me then. Turn your back on someone God Bless Are you crazy I can't get any money today. Going back is also death I might as well go crazy I'm going to die anyway. It's better to pull a back You can't win go back Money I want money Don't give me money today I will die in front of you. Let you have nightmares for the rest of your life God Bless God bless you to calm down Don't you just want money? I'm telling you Your brother-in-law is rich. He will give you the money. Can you calm down? real I want 5 million. Small amount of money Don't break your word Give me the knife I'll exchange my bank card with you. Don't lie to me I want cash. Soft Heart Call a doctor Does it hurt? This happy day And it hurt you Blame Mom It's your mother who didn't protect you. mom Don't say that This matter has nothing to do with you Mom didn't Strengthen security in advance mom Having you by my side It's the best protection for me. Ye Jiaojiao What on earth are you going to do? Ye Xinrou Your big day Of course I'm here to congratulate you. What are you going to do? What are you going to do? Ye Xinrou I want to go Ye Jiaojiao I have no grievances with you in the past No grudges What do you want to do? Ye Xinrou You are talking nonsense No grudges or hatred How is that possible? To say there is hatred That's you too Seduced my husband first But speaking of this I want to thank you It's you Keep me away from that scumbag Zhang Hongwei Two-minute Enoki mushroom If you don't look at him I have a little money. He is not worthy of taking over Speaking of hatred You should reflect on this. Why Take away my life What nonsense are you talking about? I am so beautiful It should be The fate of a rich lady Why Why you, an abandoned woman? It's Miss Qianjin And I Just a nanny's daughter You are crazy Crazy yes I'm crazy I want you to try it too. The life I experienced How painful What do you want to do? Don't mess around Honey today Let your brothers Enjoy it Little Beauty rest assured Today, grandpas I promise to serve you well. What are you doing? Don't come over here Help! Let me go Lin Nan Why are you standing there? Lin Nan Call me Beat him to death Lin Nan Lin Nan Lin Nan Lin Nan Stop fighting Beat him to death Walk Lin Nan Lin Nan, are you okay? Soft Heart sorry I'm late Lin Nan I said Protect your Lin Nan Lin Nan, wake up! Lin Nan Lin Nan Walk I'll take you home I'll take you home You woke up Why are you crying? No I am Thinking of you yesterday I'm scared to death Did You Know Stupid or not Didn't we just take an oath? For a lifetime Protecting each other? So don't worry I'll be fine. It won't let you have any trouble That's it. Retractor Don't get up You still have an injury on your waist I want to drink water You What do you want to do? Tell me directly We are married now. I will definitely Take good care of your Can you do whatever you want? Soft Heart come over Soft Heart Come up What are you talking about? Marry as husband and wife Be our couple Things to do Stop making trouble this This is a hospital I have an injury on my waist it hurts Can you come up? Lin Wang Tianyou has been sentenced Intentional injury 5 years The group that bullied Xinrou What about the little bastard? They were all caught together. Where is Ye Jiaojiao? Not found yet Probably hidden. Can't handle her I can't handle her man. It seems Let Zhang Hongwei's company go bankrupt It's still too cheap for him. Mr. Lin, what do you mean? Put him in huge debt Lose everything There will never be a turning point I understand, Mr. Lin I'll do it now Mr. Liu, Mr. Liu You can't go You can't watch Look at our company's breach of contract. You are our old shareholder. Your breach of contract What does it have to do with me? We have your shares in the company. Zhang Hongwei, Zhang Hongwei You really don't know Have you offended anyone? Isn't it just the Ye family? Isn't it just the Ye family? And the Lin family Really not very capable You're quite courageous. Poke a hole in the sky I still feel okay Mr. Liu What to do then I have offended that person. It's already happened You can't just stand by and watch someone die. You want to say this Your Shares I can't return it to you. If you don't want to retreat, then don't retreat. I won't do it for the money. Offending Ye and Lin Mr. Liu You can't just stand by and watch someone die. You have to help me Get out of my way Mr. Liu, Mr. Liu You can't leave Mr. Liu Mr. Liu Damn it Who are you angry at? Are you annoying? Ye Jiaojiao Did I give you face? You're looking for trouble If it weren't for you Caused me so much trouble Can I get so angry? husband Look There is no fruit at home recently. I want to eat strawberries Or you can buy me strawberries Do you want to eat strawberries? You want to eat strawberries? I think you look like a strawberry. Zhang Hongwei, you dare to hit me The one I hit is you You liar Oh, son. Stop fighting Stop fighting No matter what This little bitch's belly It's your child Please don't hurt our Zhang family. Dear grandson Go fast Do you still eat strawberries? Cool down mom If you hadn't stopped me today I beat that bitch to death If it weren't for her She lied to me that she was The daughter of the Ye family Also kidnapped Ye Xinrou Can my company go bankrupt? I'm in a lot of debt. Who knows her Thin-skinned and tender It's a fake This Wang Xinrou Wang Xiaorou Ye Xinrou It's Ye Xinrou Good good good Ye XinrouYe Xinrou You two are a couple you say Can we still get back together? Wow If only I could do that Hug the big star That's it Round Gao Yichen is yours now Go ahead You go measure him. What does this mean? My sister took my measurements. You're jealous too. My wife You can only hug me like this Others Even if he's my brother, What about Madam? Xinrou is still my family I'm still hers Lifelong couture customer I am her brand agent. Oh, that's enough. You two Childish and immature Gao Yichen Don't you forget I'm your boss. The largest shareholder of Xinchen Films You are so cruel Soft Heart Hand Star Hand President Your life That's great. son This is your grandma. Good things left for me It's an antique jade pendant. This is our Zhang family. family heirloom Back then Xiaorou likes it But back then Let's go with Xiaorou It's so awkward She won't look back. You don't understand this, son. You and Xiaorou That's the friendship between classmates. That's called first love In this life The most unforgettable thing is first love mom But that's Lin Nan How can I compare with Lin Nan? Are you stupid? Ask her out first. In the name of reminiscing about the past Look at her attitude If it's soft, it won't work Then again Forced sex Good you I'm still pregnant You just want to cheat on me Are you still a human being? Ye Jiaojiao Calm down. I tell you You are the mistress. Ye Xinrou and I are the original couple you what OK You don't care about me, do you? Then you always care I have your Zhang family's seed in my belly I tell you If you dare to go find Ye Xinrou I will die for you to see That's right Tell you a good news To celebrate My wedding with Xinrou Xinchen Films All artists under the company Haute Couture All contracted by Yeh Group good To celebrate Yip Group Clothing Department Got this big order Tonight I decided to stay at the Royal Hotel Please have dinner I pay good Royal Hotel There Isn't it famously expensive? What are you afraid of? Anyway The Ye family's business Madam has given out benefits So what should I post? Not as good as I'm Xinchen Films All the artists are called over. Team building with everyone good You two are really good. You really treat me like a tool. Old woman adult I helped you Such a big favor How are you going to repay me? Who helped others? I'll repay you for doing me a small favor. All colleagues in the company have benefits I don't care I want too rogue I'm going to play hooligan on you It's work time No more playing Heart Soft Heart Soft Today Fried Chicken I don't think I'm full yet. I'll go eat another meal Your employees are quite sensible. Than Gao Yichen that kid More sensible Pay attention to the impact of working hours I try my best Do you know who I am? You stop me I don't know. I don't know. I am your CEO Ye Ye Xinrou's acquaintance It's you Come see us every day Mr. Ye has many people. They all say Mr. Ye is an acquaintance Go away, get out of here! 8AO You're a watchdog Dog eyes look down on people What are you doing Let me in Let me in What do you want me to do in here? Walk away oops Xiaorou finally found you My good daughter-in-law How come you are here? Me and your Zhang family It's no longer relevant. You kid How to speak? You and Hongwei After all, we are a couple As the saying goes Hundred Days of Grace Between Japanese Husband and Wife Your three years of relationship Stop Me and him It's no longer relevant. And already They remarried Besides, it was also Zhang Hongwei cheated first Xiaorou Don't talk like that. Blame it on that vixen Seducing Hongwei Let you Suffered so much injustice But how can I remember You wronged me at first. Say I stole your jade bracelet You are a rich lady. How can I steal? You must have remembered it wrong. Besides This bracelet will be worn a hundred years later Aren't they all yours? There are other babies And this jade pendant It's our Zhang family's heirloom. The future is also for you Hypocrisy I don't need Auntie, don't worry. I won't look back You go Soft Heart I let you harm my son Jail Ye Xinrou I'll make you live a life worse than death Soft Heart Soft Heart Are you okay? Soft Heart Soft Heart Call an ambulance Wake up Why am I in the hospital? You suddenly fainted It scared me. Fortunately, the doctor checked Say it's no big deal Just too frightened What about them? Zhang Hongwei's mother Injured internal organs Rescued in hospital No problem Your adoptive mother Got caught Really Evildoers will be punished by their own evildoers Can't do this again Suddenly fainted Don't scare me like this anymore. Got it Wife I was scared all night. Seeking comfort? Stop making trouble This is a hospital Just let me hug you Just a moment OK Being young is good But you also need to know how to exercise moderation Especially in the first three months. You must Take good care of your body knew Ye Xinrou You can go through the discharge procedures now. Thank you doctor Did you hear that? The doctor told you to rest well. First three months Could it be oooooo Going out? Why What are you going to do? Look at my mom Zhang Hongwei Don't think I don't know You just hit Look at your mother's name Let's meet Ye Xinrou privately They live in the same hospital. You just go Meet your old lover Ye Jiaojiao I have tolerated you for a long time. I don't care I won't allow it anyway. You go see your old lover stand up Ye Jiaojiao Wake up You are the mistress. You are a vixen yourself. Ye Xinrou and I are the original couple I won't let you go I don't allow Don't think you have a big belly I dare not hit you Overdue You are really brave Big Brother Give me some more time I will definitely find a way The house looks nice Moved to pay off debt It should be just right There is really no way It's not bad to use the house Don't worry I will find the money You're not allowed to leave stand up Ye Jiaojiao I tell you I'm just looking for Ye Xinrou I'm just going to find her I don't look for her Will you give me this 20 million? Unexpected Lin Nan this guy It's quite romantic. Soft Heart do you remember I used to be like this Express yourself to you Zhang Hongwei What the hell are you doing? Soft Heart We are first love In our marriage I have offended all men in the world Mistakes that everyone makes but I hope you can forgive me security guard Is there security? Soft Heart You now Don't accept my apology It doesn't matter I'll sing you a song I'll leave after singing You ask How deep I love you How much do I love you My love is also true My love is undoubted The moon represents my heart The moon represents my heart Who is it? Zhang Hongwei Don't leave anymore I started pouring hot water. Come down to me You think I'm afraid of you Soft Heart But don't worry I will come back again Zhang Hongwei I've given you enough time. or Mortgage the house to me today Or you jump out of the window This account is even. Big Brother This is the 24th floor. House for you I sign I sign Xinrou thought at that time I have no taste. Cheap romance in the company Unexpectedly It's Zhang Hongwei who's causing trouble This is magnificent. Really shameless. you do not say He also sang for Xinrou You should learn from your parents. Oh, okay, okay. I'm sick of it. Let me finish talking to my parents. Soft Heart Are you okay? fine Is it recently? I have a stomachache again. Girl, are you okay? I'm fine Walk I'll take you to the hospital I'm not going It's all your fault injury Yeah, it's all your fault. Zhang Hongwei Give me the house Our account is even. But you want to stay here It's not impossible Big Brother I know you're the best Thank you, bro etc. My brother likes to try everything Just like you Your wife follows you. Not a good day either. Give her to us. you Zhang Hongwei You son of a bitch You crazy bitch let go Don't hit me Oh, how pitiful. Big belly Still have to come out to beg for food Who's asking for food? stop You really put yourself Begging for food Zhang Hongwei you bastard You even have a pregnant wife Want to sell I don't want food Can I rely on you, a piece of trash? Give me Give me Give me Zhang Hongwei gave me Give me Ye Jiaojiao Don't pretend. Touch your butt Are you sure? Ye Jiaojiao You're not going to give birth, are you? Jiaojiao Jiaojiaojiaojiao Soft Heart You are It's me Zhang Hongwei How did you become like this? It's really a case of one's own fault. You are pregnant 5 months Good baby Husband, look I gave you a son. Ye Jiaojiao Is this child mine? husband What stupid things are you saying? This child is not yours. Then he would be a wild one. Ye Xinrou is pregnant You still refuse to admit it, right? This kid is a wild one. Wild What happened to the wild species? It's better than you have no seeds Pinch If you can, strangle me to death Zhang Hongwei You are a complete Coward Can't lay eggs Not Ye Xinrou The child I gave birth to It's not yours either. People with problems It's you You are a it's useless waste Zhang Hongwei If you hadn't rushed This wild dad It's not your turn yet. You're a scumbag. You are suitable Infertility A large family Wild dad is wild dad Don't let others know I, Zhang Hongwei, cannot have children Give me the child Give me back my child. Zhang Hongwei Wife What are you thinking about? I'm thinking What to name your child? My wife is awesome. I got twins. I've thought of a name. My sister is Lin Sitong My sister's name is Lin Sijia How do you know? They must be two daughters. What if it's two boys? just in case Sons and daughters But I want a little cotton jacket That What if it's a boy? Then trouble my wife Regeneration