Fermilab is America's leading particle physics On this, I think you'll agree. People ask me which is Fermilab's most important answer, as the laboratory's scientific staff understand the secrets of the universe. However, there is no doubt that the laboratory and there is also no denying that the laboratory's DUNE, short for Deep Underground Neutrino In what might be a case of stating the very deep underground and will search for neutrino That sounds obvious enough. But, when you dig into the details, reality DUNE actually consists of a couple of detectors: and a much larger one located 800 miles away Fermilab will shoot the world's most intense through both detectors to better understand One of the key goals is to see if neutrinos If they don't, this will be an absolutely why the universe exists as we know it. I've made a couple of videos that talk in but I can give you the thumbnail description Neutrinos are the ghosts of the subatomic Because they experience only the weak nuclear For instance, neutrinos can pass through the of interacting. In fact, that happens all of the time with There are three different types of neutrinos, subscript that identifies which kind they The three types are the electron-type, the Each type has a special affinity for a specific is produced at the same time as an electron These three types of neutrinos are similar, tiger. Neutrino oscillation is the phenomenon where one to another and back again. It's like a cat morphing into a jaguar and Researchers have suspected neutrinos oscillated the late 1990s proved that it's true. We've spent the last two decades studying The DUNE experiment is designed to study neutrino oscillation. A beam of nearly-pure muon neutrinos or antineutrinos Dakota. The detector on the Fermilab campus will characterize detector will study it when it arrives, 800 These two measurements will allow researchers while the particles were in flight. So, oscillation measurements like those are program, but it's not the driving point There are a couple of topics that are worth The first one I'll mention is the most persuasive others are pretty cool too. The first one has to deal with a very serious seemingly silly question of why our universe That question just seems very peculiar- I But it turns out that that 'of course' For instance, we know of a substance called Take matter and antimatter and combine them The converse is also true. Energy can convert into matter and antimatter. You can combine that observation with the mystery. And if you're wondering how I could touch I'm a trifle deaf in my left ear. The Big Bang says that the universe was once As the universe expanded and cooled, that of matter and antimatter. And yet, our universe consists entirely of So where did the antimatter go? We don't know the answer to that, but we in the early universe, so that for every three billion and one matter particles. The three billions cancelled each other out I said that we don't know how that happens, the universe slightly favors matter over antimatter, So that's where neutrinos and the DUNE experiment The DUNE experiment will study neutrino oscillation If we find that they oscillate to a different explains, well, the whole mystery. Or not. That's why we do the experiment- to help So this study of matter and antimatter neutrinos but there are a couple of others. Another reason is because there are theories Now our best theory of physics says that protons and determined that if they decay they live That's ten billion, trillion, trillion years- 14 billion year lifetime of the universe. The DUNE experiment will be able to achieve measurements. And, for certain decays, it will be able to And, if DUNE actually observes proton decay, There is a third neat thing that DUNE can from a supernova, which is the explosion of Using different apparatus, we've seen one In 1987, a star blew up in the Larger Magellanic Milky Way. The biggest detector at the time, called Kamiokande If you combine the neutrinos from all detectors were seen. If the DUNE experiment were running back in by itself. Such a measurement would help us better understand collapses. Supernovae are pretty rare, with only about will only see supernovae in the galaxies closer to get lucky to see one. But since the detector is being built anyway, astrophysics as well. I've talked about why DUNE is very interesting both technologically and sociologically. The detector in Lead, South Dakota will be in the Sanford Underground Research Facility. The detector will consist of almost seventy gigantic caverns. Each cavern will contain a detector 45 feet Liquid argon was chosen as a technology because the particles originating in collisions of And we know that approach works, because a tested. The prototype is called ProtoDUNE and this liquid argon. It's really quite beautiful. And researchers have already used ProtoDUNE It's just a lovely detector, both aesthetically for the future of the DUNE project. DUNE is an international collaboration, involving and CERN. CERN isn't a country, but as the world's it gets special mention. Fermilab and CERN have collaborated before, in infrastructure outside of Europe. The DUNE collaboration really does have some among its collaborators. So what's the status of DUNE, you ask? Well, it's being built. The first of the caverns should have an operational The others will follow shortly thereafter. I know that sounds like quite a ways away, class beamline and facility. We'll be buried in neutrino data before Okay. That's the end of the video. Did you like, subscribe and share? If not, why not? It's really is hard to pick out just one of so much good science is going on, but DUNE manpower and resources. It's going to dominate the neutrino landscape And that makes it very important because,