- The following is a businesswoman, real estate developer, and former senior advisor to the President of the United States. I've gotten to know Ivanka We've become good friends, hitting it off right away over our mutual love of reading, especially philosophical writings from Marcus Aurelius, Joseph Campbell, Alan Watts, Viktor Frankl, and so on. She is a truly kind, compassionate, and thoughtful human being. In the past, people have attacked her, in my view, to get indirectly as part of a dirty game of politics and clickbait journalism. These attacks obscured often bipartisan, that and they obscured the truth of Through all that, she with anything but kindness, and always walked through the For this and much more, and I'm honored to be Oh, and for those living happy upcoming 4th of July. It's both an anniversary of this country's and an anniversary of my I'm forever grateful for for this amazing life, for all of you who have given a chance From the bottom of my heart, thank you. I love you all. This is the &quot;Lex Fridman Podcast.&quot; To support it, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends, You said that ever since you were young, you wanted to be a builder, of designing beautiful city skylines, especially in New York City. I love the New York City skyline. So describe the origins - You know, I think there's and a total insecurity So I remember 15, I would look out over the city skyline for my bedroom window in New York, and imagine where I could contribute and add value in a way that, you know, I look back on and completely laugh at, you know, how confident I was. But I've known since some it's something I've wanted to do, and I think I fundamentally, I love art. I love expressions of beauty, and so many different forms. With architecture, there's the tangible, and I think that marriage of function and something that exists beyond yourself is very compelling. I also grew up in a family where my mother was in working alongside my father. My father was in the business, and I saw the joy that it brought to them. So I think I had these They used to send me as a little girl renderings of projects they with notes asking if I would hurry up and finish school, so So I had these positive associations, but it came from something within myself. I think that as I got older and as I got involved in real estate, I realized that it was You have, of course, the design, but you also have engineering, the brass tacks of construction. There's time management, Just the duration of time to complete one of these iconic You can contribute a decade So while you have to think big picture, it means you really have to care deeply about the details because So it allowed me to flex a - I love that confidence of youth. - It's funny because we're in the most basic interactions, but yet our ambitions are so unbridled in a way that kind of like And I think it's fun. It's fun to like tap into that energy. - Yeah, where everything is possible. I think some of the greatest kind of always have that little flame of everything is possible still burning. That is a silly notion from youth, but it's not so silly. You know, everybody tells but if you continue and to have that sort of naive even if it's exceptionally difficult, that naive notion turns into some of the greatest - 100%. - You know, going out to space, or building a new company where like everybody said it's impossible, or taking on that gigantic and revolutionizing how stuff is done. Or doing to huge building so many people are involved - We get conditioned out of that feeling. - Yeah. - We start to become insecure and we start to rely on the input or validation of others, from that sort of core drive and ambition. So it's fun to reflect on that, and also to smile, right? Because whether you can execute or not, time will tell. (laughs) But yeah, no, that was - Yeah, of course. It's important to also once you get humbled and realize that it's actually a lot of work to build. I still am amazed just big bridges, that human beings are able to get together and build those things. That's one of my favorite things about architecture is just like, wow. It's a manifestation of the fact that humans can collaborate and do something like epic, And it's like a statue and it can be there for a long time. - I think in some ways you look out at different city skylines, and it's almost like a visual depiction of ambition realized, right? Like it's a testament to somebody's dream, to not somebody, a whole and visions and triumphs, if the projects weren't properly executed. So, you look at these skylines and it's a testament to that. I actually heard once architecture described as frozen music. That really resonated with me. - I love thinking about a city skyline as an ensemble of dreams realized. - Yeah. I remember the first time I went to Dubai and I was watching them dredging out and creating these manmade islands. And I remember somebody once saying to me, they're an architect, an architect actually on our tower in Chicago. He said that the only thing that limited what an architect could do in that area was gravity and imagination. (laughs) So it's, you know- - Yeah but gravity's a and that's why civil engineer I used to build bridges in high school for physics classes. You have to build bridges and you compete on how much weight they can carry relative to their own weight. - Yeah. it is by finding its breaking point, and that was a deep appreciation for me on a miniature scale of, on a large scale, what people are able to 'cause gravity is a tricky - It definitely is. And bridges, I mean, some in our country are incredible bridges. - So if we think of skylines as ensembles of dreams realized, you spent quite a bit of time in New York. What do you love about and what do you think about What's a good picture? We're looking here at a few. I mean, looking over the water. - Well, I think the water of the New York skyline, as And oftentimes you'll you'll see these towers reflecting So I think there's and unique about that. When I look at New York, sort of tapestry of different So you have the gothic form, as represented by buildings or you'll have art deco as represented by buildings like 40 Wall Street or the Chrysler Building, And then you'll have these unbelievable super modern examples, like Lever House and Seagram's House. So you have all of these different styles, and I think to build in New York, you're really building So nobody's giving New York And especially when a lot of there was this incredible between New York and Chicago for kind of dominance of the sky, and for who could create that sort of race to were first being built, and then New York surpassing that in terms of height at least with the Empire State Building. So I love sort of contextualizing and thinking back to that are so iconic were added and the context in which - I gotta ask you about this. There's a pretty cool page that I've been following on X, Architecture &amp; Tradition, and they celebrate sort of traditional schools of architecture. And you mentioned gothic, the tapestry. This is in Chicago, the So what do you think about that, sort of the old and the new mix together? Do you like gothic? - I think it's hard to look at something like the Tribune Tower and like, this is an unbelievable building. Look at those buttresses, and you've got gargoyles And you know, this style was reminiscent of the cathedrals of Europe, which was very kind of in vogue in like the 1920s here in America. Actually, I've mentioned The Woolworth Tower was actually referred to as the Cathedral of Commerce, and because it also was - [Lex] Amazing. - So this was built maybe a decade before the Tribune Building. But the Tribune Building to me is, it's almost not replicable. It personally really resonates with me because one of the first projects I ever worked on was which was this beautiful, elegant, super modern, all glass So it was right across the river. So I would look out the windows as it was under construction, or be standing quite literally on rebar of the building looking and incredibly inspired. And now the reflective glass of the building reflects but also the Tribune Building and other buildings on Michigan Avenue. - Do you like it when the glass, the reflective properties of the glass is part of the architecture? - I think it depends. Like they have super reflective glass that sometimes doesn't And I think it's one component of sort of a composition I think in this case, the glass on Trump It was designed by Adrian Smith of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, a major architecture firm, who actually did the which is I think like of modern architecture. But glass is tricky. You have to get the shade right. You know, some glass and get super green, and that's a choice. And sometimes you have blue silver, like you see here, but it's part of the character. - How do you know what it's actually going to look like when it's done? Like, is it possible to imagine that? Because it feels like - I think so. I think if you have a vivid imagination, if you sit with it, and then if you also go You have to live with the materials. So you don't build a 92 story and not deeply examine the actual curtain wall So you have to spend a lot of time with the actual materials, sort of artistic renderings, which can be incredibly misleading. The goal is actually that the end result is much, much more compelling than what the architect but oftentimes, that's You know, sometimes also you sometimes I'll see I'm like, &quot;Wait, what about the building right to the left of it that's You know, the architects, they'll remove things So you have to be rooted in- - In reality. - And I love the notion of in contrast to living in the So both are probably important, 'cause you have to dream but you also have to be rooted in like what the thing is actually going to look like in the - 100%. - One of the underlying principles of the page I just mentioned, and I hear folks mention this a lot is that modern architecture's that it lacks soul and beauty. And you just spoke with admiration for both modern and for So do you think there's truth that modern architecture is boring? - I'm living in Miami currently, so I see a lot of super on the waterfront, but I shouldn't be the norm. You know, they're typically rare, so, and I think in modern architecture, you find an abundance of amazing examples of super compelling and I mean, I mentioned the Burj Khalifa. It is awe-inspiring. This is an unbelievably striking example of modern architecture. You look at some older examples, the Sydney Opera House, and, you know, so I think There you go. I mean, that's like a needle in the sky. - [Lex] (laughs) Yeah, - It's huge. And in the context of a city where there's a lot of height, so it's unbelievable. But I think one of the things that's probably exciting me the most about architecture right now is the innovation that's You know, there's example there's 3D printing. Your friend and who you introduced me to not too long ago, Neri Oxman, what she's doing at the intersection of biology and technology, and thinking about how to create more sustainable development practices, quite literally trying to create materials that will biodegrade back into the earth. I think there's something with the rediscovery of So you have self-healing concrete that was used by the Romans, an art and a practice of that's now being rediscovered and is more critical than ever as we think about how much of our infrastructure relies on concrete, and how much of that is failing So I think actually it's a for innovation in architecture, and I think there are of modern design that are really exciting. But generally, I think Roosevelt said that comparison is the You know, you look at you look at some of One of the buildings I'm most proud to have worked on was the historical Post Office building in Washington, DC. You look at a building like that and it feels like it has no equal. - Also, there's a psychological element where people tend to want to complain about the new and celebrate the old. - Always. (both laughing) It's like the history of time, so. - There's just, people are and concerned about change, and it's true that there's a lot of stuff that's new that's not good. It's not gonna last, it's not gonna stand the test And there's just like in modern art and modern music, there's that stand the test of time, and we'll later look &quot;Those were the good times.&quot; - Yeah. - When you just step back, what do you love about architecture? Is it the beauty? Is it the function? - I'm most emotionally drawn but I think as somebody I really believe that the form Like, there's nothing uglier than a space that is ill conceived, that, you know, otherwise it's decoration. And I think that after sort to seeing something that's aesthetically really pleasing to me, or a project, I love how it's being used. So having been able to in my career and worked on I mean, it's really, really rewarding after the fact to have and tell you that they got engaged in the lobby of your building, or they got married in the ballroom, and share with you some So to me that's equally as beautiful, the use cases for these But I think it's all of it. I love that you've got the construction, and you've got the design, and you've got then the interior design, and you've got the financing elements, the marketing elements, and it's all wrapped So, to me it's exciting to sort of flex in all those different ways. - Yeah, like you said, hard work realized. I mean, probably on the bridge side is why I love the function, in terms of function being primary. You just think of like the millions- - Oh my gosh, look at that. - Go down, you had... Look at that. (laughs) - Yeah, this is Devil's Bridge in Germany. - Yeah. I wouldn't say it's like but look how beautiful that is. - Yeah, so this is probably, We need to interview some people whether the function holds up. But in terms of beauty, and then like what we're talking about, using the water for the reflection and the shape that creates. I mean, there's an elegance - See, it's interesting that because to me this is very ethereal. You know, I think about - There's nothing about Maybe they're just being - Unless that function's really flawed. - Yeah, exactly. Maybe- - Nobody's ever successfully crossed. - Could cross the bridge, yeah. But I mean, to me, there's just iconic, I love looking at bridges It's the Brooklyn Bridge I mean, those are probably my favorites in the United States. Just in a city to be able to look out and see the skyline combined and thinking of all the like the busyness, like and going to work, building cool stuff. And just the bridge kind of represents the turmoil and the busyness It's cool. - [Ivanka] And the connectivity as well. - [Lex] Yeah, the network So there, the bridge is of function and beauty. - Yeah. I remember when I was first studying the cable stay and I mean, you actually so I'm sure you'll have but they really are so beautiful. And you mentioned the Brooklyn Bridge, but growing up in New York, that was as much a part and tapestry of that skyline as any building that's seen in it, so. - What in general is your philosophy, philosophy of design and - Well, some of the most recent projects I worked on prior to government service were the Old Post Office building, and almost simultaneously So these were both two both redevelopments, having worked on ground up construction, redevelopment projects much more complicated because but also a lot of limitations especially when you're repurposing a use. So, this, the Old Post Office building on Pennsylvania Avenue was- - [Lex] So beautiful. - It's unbelievable. So this was a Romanesque revival building built in the 1890s on to symbolize American grandeur. And at the time, there were in the style across the country, but this being really the defining one. Still to this day, the tallest habitable the tallest structure being the monument. The nation's only vertical park, which is that clock tower. But you've got these thick granite walls, those carved granite turrets. Just an unbelievable building. You've got this massive atrium that runs through the whole center of it that is topped with glass. So having the opportunity to spearhead a project And actually it was my so I came to it with a tremendous amount of energy, vigor and humility ensuring I had all the right people. We had countless federal and that would oversee every But in advance of even having there was a close to two like a process that was put out by the General Services Administration. So it was this really arduous that we were competing against so many different people for the opportunity, which a lot of people said it But I looked at that and I think, so did a lot of the other bidders and say, it's worth trying to put - So you fell in love with - [Ivanka] I fell in love, yeah. - So what would, is there about what it takes to do renovation? Is there about some of the Because you wanna maintain and now like upgrade the and maybe modernize some aspects of it without destroying what made the building magical in the first place. - So I think the greatest the exterior of the building, and any addition to it had to in terms of any signage additions. The interior spaces were It had been in a post office, then was used for a and government office spaces. It was actually losing $6 million a year when we got the concession to build it, and when we won, and became one of, I think a great example of public-private But I think the biggest such a radical use conversion So the amount of time I twice a week, three times a week to spend day trips down in Washington, and we would walk every single inch of the building, laying debating over the configuration of a room. There were almost 300 rooms and there were almost 300 layouts. So nothing could be repeated. Whereas when you have, when you tend, you know, you have a box and you decide where you wanna add, you know, potential elements, and you kind of can stack the But when you're working every single room was different. You see the setbacks, so the setback then required you to move the plumbing. So there was no, it was and to do something like this, and that's why I think renovation. We had it with Doral as well. It was 700 rooms over 650 acres of property, and so every single unit was very different and complicated. Not as complicated in some ways. The scale of it was so massive, but not as complicated but it required a level of precision. And I think in real estate, you have a lot of people and a lot of people of sort of acquiring and flipping. So it's more financial And they don't spend the time sort of sweating these details that make something great and and you feel it in the end result. But I mean, blood, sweat, tears, years of my life for those I enjoyed almost, I enjoyed almost every minute of it. - So to you, it's not about the flipping. To you, it's about the art and the function of the - 100%. - What's design on plan? I'm learning new things today. - When proposals are put and really just the plan is accepted, and in the case of a renovation, like if you're not walking those rooms, the number of times a was on a blueprint, and and I'd walk that floor and I'd realize that there was a column that ran right up through the middle the bed was supposed to be, or the toilet was supposed So there's a lot of things that are missed when you do something conceptually without sort of rooting it And that's why I think even, you know, with ground up construction as well, people who aren't constantly constantly walking the projects, there's just a lot that's, there's a lot that's missed. - I mean, there's a wisdom to the idea that we talked about before, and walking the construction I mean, that's what you hear from people like Steve Jobs, like Elon. That's why you live on the factory floor. That's why you constantly obsess about the details of the but the physical reality of the product. I mean, the insanity of Steve Jobs and Jony Ive working together making the iPhone, the early designs, prototypes, making that perfect, like what it actually You have to be there like as possible to truly understand. - And you have to love - Right. It shouldn't be about how all that kind of stuff. You have to love the art. - 'Cause for the most part, maybe even 95% of the end result, unless something has terribly with that level of almost But you'll notice that 10% for the rest of your life, you know. So I think that extra I think that's what - If we go back to that young Ivanka, the confidence of youth, and if we could talk about your mom. She had a big influence on you. You told me she was an adventurer. - [Ivanka] Yeah. - Olympic skier and a businesswoman. What did you learn about - So much. She passed away two years ago now, and she was a remarkable, She was a trailblazer in As an athlete growing up in as a fashion mogul, as a real just this all around I also learned from her, you know, aside from that element, You know, I look back and some of my happiest memories of her are in the ocean, you know, looking up at the sun and Or dancing. She loved to dance. So she really taught me a lot about living life to its fullest, and she had so much so much energy and a complete - What do you think about that? I mean, Olympic athlete, the trade off between like ambition and just wanting to do big and giving your all to that, and being able to relax and and enjoy every moment of - [Ivanka] Yeah. - What do you think about that trade off? - I think because she was this unbelievable formidable athlete and because of the discipline I think it made her value I think she was a great balance of the two that we all hoped to find, and she was able to find both incredibly serious and formidable. I remember as a little girl, I used to literally trapes behind her at the Plaza Hotel, which she oversaw, and actually kind of It was this unbelievable And I'd follow her around and on job sites, and See? That's funny that's the - I'm sorry. - That's great. just look great in that picture. - That's great. She had such a joy to her, and she was so unabashed in her perspective and her opinions. I mean, you know, she made my Whatever she was feeling, she was just very expressive and a lot of fun to be around. - So she, as you mentioned, grew up during the Prague Spring in 1968, and that had a big I mean, my family came and then, you know, the 20th century, the story of the 20th century the Soviet Union tried and it turned out that resulted into a lot of suffering. So why do you think the - I think fundamentally as We want agency. You know, and my mom was who grew up in similar situations where she didn't like to So one of my real regrets is You know, so, but I think back to the conversations we did have and I try to imagine what it's like. She was at Charles University in Prague, which was really like a that were ushered in and the liberalization The dance halls were opening, the student activists, and she was attending university there right at that same time. So the contrast to this feeling of freedom and progress and liberalization in the spring, and then it so quickly being crushed in the fall of that same year when the Warsaw Pact countries and the Soviet Union rolled in to put down and ultimately roll So for her to have lived she didn't come to North America until she was 23 or 24, so that was her life as a young girl. She was on the junior national ski team for Czechoslovakia. My grandfather used to train her. They used to put the skis on her back and walk up the mountain because there were no ski lifts. She actually made me do just to let me know what If I complained that it was cold out, she's like, &quot;Well, you didn't You'd be plenty warm if you had carried the skis up on your back up the last run.&quot; - I feel like they made Like my grandma, and you they go through some of the darkest things that a human being can go through and they don't talk about it, and they have a general like that's deeply rooted in the knowledge of what life could be, My grandma survived Holodomor in Ukraine, which was a mass starvation brought on by the collectivist policies and then she survived the Never talked about it. Probably went through extremely dark, extremely difficult times, and then just always had a and also made me do very like as you mentioned, just to humble you. Like kids these days which I'm deeply, deeply including just having hardship and including just physical I think that's really important. - You wonder how much of who they were was a reaction to their experience. You know, would she have naturally had that sort of forward looking, grateful, optimistic orientation? Or was it a reaction to her childhood? I think about that, you know, I look at this picture of my mom and she was unabashedly herself. You know, she loved and in some ways I think it to this very austere, You know, this was one expression of it. I think her, you know, how she dressed and how she presented, I think her entrepreneurial and all things American was and one that I grew up with. I remember the story she used to tell me about when she was 14 and she was going to neighboring countries and, you know, as an athlete, you were given additional freedoms that you wouldn't otherwise be afforded in these societies under communist rules. So she was able to travel, never would be able to And she would come back and the first place in Austria and elsewhere, and the first thing she had to do was check in at the local police. And she'd sit down and she had enough wisdom at 14 to know that she couldn't appear to be lying by not being impressed by what she saw, and the fact that you could but she couldn't be too excited by it that she'd become a flight risk. So give enough details- - That you're believable, but not so many that you're not trusted. And imagine that as a 14-year-old, you know, that experience and having to navigate the world that way. And she told me that eventually all those local police because one of the things she'd do is smuggle that stuff and give it to them to give their wives, perfume and stockings. So she figured out the But it's a very different experience from what I was navigating and challenges me as a So, I have so much respect - Yeah, hardship clarifies You and I have talked about that book, having kind clarifies that finding joy in life is not about the environment, it's about your outlook and there's beauty to be And also in that particular situation, when everything's taken from you, the thing you start to think So in the case of &quot;Man's Viktor Frankl thinking about his wife and how much he loves her, and that love was the flame, the warmth that kept him excited, the fun thing to think about So we sometimes forget that you get all this fun like building and being a At the end of the day, what matters is just like the other the people you love. - It's the simple stuff. - You know, Viktor Frankl that book and just his it's so inspiring to me. But I think so many people, but they want conditional happiness. You know, when this and or under these circumstances, And I think what he showed is that we can sort of cultivate regardless of the situation And in some ways I think is the search for meaning in life. It's the relationships It's the experience we have. It's how we deal with the suffering that life inevitably presents to us. And Viktor Frankl does an amazing job highlighting that under the and I think it's just - He also shows that you can get so much from just like small joys, like getting a little more soup today than you did yesterday. I mean, it's like, it's the little stuff. If you allow yourself to love the little stuff of life, It's all there. So you don't need to like and the comparison being a thief Just like it's all around Like, when I was in the jungle and I got severely dehydrated 'cause there's no water, you And I mean, the joy I Like I didn't care about anything else. Speaking of things that matter in life. I would start to fantasize about water, and that was breaking me joy. (laughs) - You can tap into this - Exactly. I was just tapping in - Just go into your bathroom, turn on the sink and watch the water. - Oh, for sure, for sure. I mean, people really, it's good to have stuff That's why struggle is good, to have deep gratitude And water and food is a big one, but water is the biggest one. I wouldn't recommend it necessarily to get severely dehydrated but maybe every time you can have that kind of gratitude. - There's a prayer in Judaism you're supposed to say every morning, which is basically thanking It's something, you know, so basic, but it's when it doesn't So just reminding ourselves of a functional body, of our health, of access to water, which around the world do not have reliably is very clarifying and super important. - Yeah, health is a gift. Water is a gift. - Yeah. - Is there a memory with your mom that had a defining effect on your life? - I have these vignettes in my mind. You know, seeing her in action A lot of times in the context of things that I would later go on to do myself. So, you know, I would go every day, almost every day after school, and I'd go to the Plaza Hotel and I'd follow her around as she'd walk the hallways, And she was so impossibly glamorous. She was doing everything in, you know, four and a half inch heels with this bouffant. - And so it was almost, it's almost like an inaccessible visual. But I think for me, when I saw her experience the most joy tended to be by the sea, almost always. Not a pool, and I think Pools, they're fine. I love the ocean. I love salt water. I love the way it makes me feel, and I think I got that from her. So we would just swim and you know, it's a lot of what I love about Miami actually, being I find it to be super cathartic. But a lot of my memories of my mom, seeing her really like just in her bliss is floating around in - Is there also some aspect of somebody that could be sort but at the same time powerful, a successful business woman that showed that it's possible to do that? - Yeah, I think she It's not uncommon in real estate for there to be multiple generations of people and so on job sites. It was not unusual for me to run into somebody whose grandfather had worked with my grandfather or whose father had worked with my mother. And they'd always tell me you know, rolling in and And a lot of times the oh gosh, like, you know, really, it's two days after Christmas. Like, we thought we'd get a reprieve. But she was very exacting. You know, so I have this you know, walking on rebar, you know, on the balls of her feet - Nice. - I'm assuming she actually but I don't know. (laughs) That's not the visual I have. But she was, I loved the fact that she so embodied and was so comfortable being tough and ambitious and determined, and this unbelievable businesswoman and entrepreneur at a time Even, you know, for me and so many of the different there really aren't women outside of sales and of marketing. You don't see as many women in the construction space, and design space, maybe So, and she was, you So it was, I love hearing these stories. I love hearing somebody about their grandfather and their father, and their experience It's amazing. - And she did it all in four inch heels. - And she did it. She used to say, &quot;There's nothing that I - (laughs) That's a good one. - That would be her exact thing. And when I complain you know, it was like the early 90s, everything was all so like uncomfortable, these fabrics and materials, and I was, I would like go back and forth between being super But she'd, you know, dress and I'd be complaining about it, and she'd say, &quot;Ivanka, pain for beauty,&quot; which I happen to totally disagree with, because I think there's nothing worse than being uncomfortable. So I haven't accepted or internalized all of this wisdom, so to speak. But it was just funny. You know, she had a very - And full of good lines, - It's funny because I if something's uncomfortable, to me, there's nothing that looks worse than when you see somebody and like their heels hurt them, so they're kind of walking oddly. And you know, it doesn't, they're not embodying their So I'm like kind of the opposite. I start with, well, I and that helps me be - A foundation for fashion and on top of that you build things that are beautiful. like dowdy, you know, there's that level of comfort, but- - Functional comfort. - But I think you have to, for me, I wanna feel confident, and you don't feel confident when you're like pulling at a garment or, you know, hobbling on heels that don't fit you properly. And she was never doing so I don't know how she was That's like a 40 pound beaded dress, and I know this because I have it and I wore it recently, and I mean, I got a workout walking to the elevator. Like this is a heavy dress. And you know what, it was worth it. It was great. - She's making it look easy. - But she makes it look - Do you miss her? - So much. It's unbelievable how dislocating the loss of a parent is. And her mother lives with me still, my grandmother who helped raise us, so that's very special. And I can ask her some of the sorry, I wanted to ask my - It was beautiful to see, I've gotten a chance to spend time with your family, to see so at the table and there's - No, she's 97, and she lived completely on her own. No help, no anything, no support. And now she requires really And I feel super grateful because that's what she did for me. It's amazing for me to have my children be able to grow up and know Czech dumplings and goulash. - [Lex] Yeah. - And kitza litza, and all the other things she used to make me in my childhood. But she really, she was a major, she was a major force in my you know, my mom was working, so, you know, my grandmother was the person who was always home every day when I came back from school. And I remember I used to shower and it would almost be like comical. I feel like in my memory, and there is no washing that can actually do this, but in my memory, I'd and I'd drop something on the bed, and I'd come back into and it was like folded, pressed. It was all my grandmother. She was like running after and so it's nice to be - Yeah. - I got from her reading, my grandmother. She would, she devoured She loved the more sensational ones, so like some of these like romance novels, I would pick them up the covers. But she could tell you, she could look at like any and tell you all the mistresses- - All the drama. - All the drama. She loved it. But her face was always buried in a book. You know, my grandfather, He swam professionally for, or, you know, on the national and he helped train my mom, as I was saying before, in skiing. So he was a great athlete, and she would read and cook, and so that's something I and she would always say - I mean, like speaking of drama, I had my English teacher in high school recommended a book from It's supposed to be a classic. She's like, &quot;This is a It's called &quot;Lady Chatterley's Lover.&quot; And so I've read a lot of classics, but that one is straight about a wife who like just And I remember reading this like, what? Like in retrospect, I because it was so scandalous to talk about sex in a book - In retrospect, do you know - I have no, I think maybe - [Ivanka] Might need to think about that. - Hey, you need to get I don't know. (laughs) - Maybe she was seeking - Yeah, exactly. (both laughing) Anyway, I mean, I love but I love all the classics, and they get, there's a lot of drama. Human nature, drama is part of it, so. What about your dad? Growing up, what did you learn - I think my father's sense of humor is sometimes underappreciated. So, he had an amazing and has He loved music. I think my mom loved music as well, but you know, my father always used to say that in another life he would've been a Broadway musical producer, which is hilarious to think about. But he loves, he loves music. - That is funny to think about. - Right? He does, now he DJs at Mar-a-Lago, so. - [Lex] Nice. - People get a sense of, you know, he loves Andrew Lloyd Weber and all of it, Pavarotti, Elton John. I mean, these were the same songs on repeat my whole childhood, so. I know the playlist. - [Lex] Probably Sinatra and all that. - Loves Sinatra, loves Elvis, you know, a lot of the greats. So I think I got a little from him, but my mom shared that as well. I think one of the things, you know, in looking back that I think I inherited from my father as well or understanding of the and specifically questions And I saw this a lot on job sites. So I remember with the there was this massive so heating and cooling the structure was like a herculean lift. We had the mechanical engineers provide their thoughts on how we and so that the temperature never varied, and it was enormously expensive as an undertaking. And I remember one of his because, you know, he with this project and and to also, you know, rope But one of the first time he visits, we're walking the hallway and we're talking about how expensive this and heating system would be, and he starts stopping, and he's asking duct workers as we walk what they think of the system that the mechanical engineers designed. First few, fine, you The third guy goes, &quot;Sir, if you want me it's obscenely over-designed. In the circumstance of a 1000 year storm, you will have the exact if there's a massive blizzard But 99.9% of the time, and so I think it's just an And so we kept asking that guy questions, and we ended up overhauling the design pretty well into the saving a lot of money, creating a great system And so I learned a lot, and that's just one example of countless, that one really sticks outta in my head because I'm like, oh my gosh, we're redesign the whole system. You know, we were actively But I would see him do that He would ask people on the work level what their thoughts were, and there was almost like a Socratic sort of first principles type of way he questioned people, trying to get down to sort of, trying to reduce complex things to something really So I try to do that and I think it's something I - Yeah, I've seen great engineers, great leaders do just that. You see, you wanna do that a lot, which is basically ask questions Can we do this simpler? And like why, the basic question is like, why are we doing it this way? Can this be done simpler? - Yeah. - And not taking as an answer that this is how we've always done it, sort of not allowing yourself, like, it doesn't matter, that's What is the right way to do it? And what is, and usually the more correct the way. It has to do with costs, of production, manufacturer, but usually simple is best. - And it's oftentimes the engineers, it's, you probably the line worker who So I think making sure it's not just that you're asking good questions, you're asking the right people those same good questions. - That's why like a lot are really flat in terms where anybody on the factory floor can talk directly to Elon. There's no, there's not this hierarchy where to travel which large companies often construct this hierarchy of managers if you ask them the question of like, &quot;What have you done this week?&quot; The answer is like, it's Usually it's gonna be - [Ivanka] Yeah. - So like, nobody knows So when it's flat, you can actually get as quickly as possible, you can solve those problems And also, you have a direct rapid iterative process where making them more efficient and constantly improving, so yeah. It's interesting when large, I mean you see this in government, a lot of people get together, and that somehow, sometimes it's good, but very often just slows things down. And you see great companies, Apple, Google, Meta, they have to fight against the slowness that large And to still be a big organization and act like a startup - It's super difficult to deconstruct that as well It's circumventing layers probing questions of is a huge challenge to the and there's tremendous So it's how do you grow something in the case of a company in terms of a culture that can scale but doesn't lose its connection to sort of real and meaningful feedback. It's not easy. - I've had a lot of who's this legendary engineer and leader, and he has talked about, like, you often have to kind of be a little bit of an asshole in the room. Not in a mean way, but Like a lot of these questions, They break the kinda general politeness and civility that people When you get a meeting, like, nobody wants to be like, &quot;Can we do it way different?&quot; Everyone wants to just like, you know, I have this trip planned on the weekend with the family. Everyone just wants comfort. When humans get together, they kind of gravitate towards comfort. Nobody wants that one person that comes in and says, &quot;Hey, can we like do this way better and way different? And everything we've gotten comfortable with, throw it out.&quot; - Not only do they not want that, but the one person who comes in and does that puts a massive and is ultimately seen as a threat. I mean, nobody really gets fired for maintaining the status quo. - Right. It's the way it was always done. - Yeah, humans are fascinating. But in order to actually to reach for the stars, you You have to constantly disrupt and have those - And really have that first especially in those large - So amongst many other things, you created a fashion brand. What was that about? (laughs) What was the origin of that? - I always loved fashion as as a means to communicate either a truth or an illusion, depending on But this like sort of So I loved fashion, and look, I mean, my mother was a big But I never thought I In fact, I was graduating from Wharton, it was the day of my graduation, and Anna Winter calls up and offered me a job at &quot;Vogue,&quot; which is a dream in so many ways. But I was so focused, I wanted to go into real estate and I wanted to build buildings, and I told her that. So I really thought that that was going to be And then very organically it was part of my life, in a more professional capacity by talking with my first that I had in the fashion space about. He actually had shown me a had some real estate holdings, and I passed on the real estate deal. But we forged a friendship and we started talking that he was in, fine jewelry, there was this lack of product and brands that were positioned for self purchasing females. So everything was about, you know, the man buying the Christmas gift, the man buying the engagement ring. The stores felt like that. They were all tailored The marketing felt like that. And what about the woman who had a salary and was really excited to buy herself a great pair of earrings, or had just received a great bonus and was gonna use it to treat herself? So we thought there was a and that was the first Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry, and we just caught lightning in a bottle. It was really quickly after who had founded Nine West and we launched a shoe collection, which took off and did enormously well. And then a clothing and sunglasses, and fragrance. So, we caught a moment for this self purchasing And we made dressing At the time we launched, if for an office context, like the brands that existed were the Like nobody was, you know, taking pictures of like what they were wearing to work and posting it online with some of these classic legacy brands. Really, it felt very by a team of men for what a woman would wanna wear to the office. So we started creating this that was beautiful, that was versatile, that would take a woman to an afterschool soccer game, to a date night with a boyfriend, to a walk in the park with her husband. Like all the different and creating a wardrobe for that woman who works at every aspect of their life, not just sort of the And it was really compelling. We started creating great brand content, and we had incredible who was blogging for us at the time, and creating aspirational It was actually kind of a funny story, but I now had probably close to 11 different product categories, and we were growing like wildfire, and I started to think about to sort of create interesting content for the people who were buying and we came up with a website And I went to a marketing one of the fancy firms in New York, and I said, you know, &quot;We around this multidimensional and what do you think? Like, can you help us?&quot; And they come back and We don't like the word work. We think it should be women who do.&quot; And I just start laughing And the fact that they couldn't conceive of it being sort of and interesting to sort at all aspects of our lives But showed that that And I think that's why ultimately, I mean, when the business grew to be hundreds of millions of dollars, and sales were distributed across the country from, you to Bloomingdale's and beyond, and I think it really in an amazing way. And probably not dissimilar to how I have this incredible experience every time somebody comes up to me and tells me that they that I had painstakingly designed. I have that experience now The number of women who that they loved my shoes and I've had women show they got engaged with us, and it's really rewarding. It's really beautiful. - Yeah, when I was hanging the number of women that came up to you saying they love the clothing, they love the shoes. It's awesome. - All these years later. - What does it take to make a shoe where somebody would come and just be just full of love for this thing you've created? What's that mean, like, what - Well, I still wear - I mean, that's a good is to create a thing - I feel like the product, you have to have the right partner. So shoe, building a shoe, if you talk to a great shoe designer, it's like it's architecture. Like making a heel that's four inches that feels good to walk that is an engineering feat. And so I found great partners My shoe partner had founded Nine West, so he really knew what went into making a shoe wearable and comfortable, and then you overlay And we also created beautifully designed, super that was also affordably priced. So I think it was like the trifecta of those three things that made, I think it made it stand - Can you speak to, I to articulate, but can you go through from Like, what you go through - So not being a designer, and this was true in real estate as well, I was never the architect, so I didn't necessarily have the pen, and in fashion, the same. I was kind of like a conductor. I knew what I liked and didn't like, and I think that's really important, and that became honed for me over time. So I would have to sit a lot longer with something earlier on then later when I had more refined my And so I think first of all, you have to have a pretty strong sense of what resonates with you. And then as in the case as it grew and became and I had so many different categories, everything had to work together. So I had individual but if we were selling at Neiman Marcus, we couldn't have a pair of shoes that didn't relate to a dress, that didn't relate to a pair of sunglasses and handbags all on the same floor. So, you know, in the beginning, it was much more collaborative. As time passed, I really sort and this is the aesthetic for the season, these are the colors we're and then working with our partners on the execution of that. But I needed to create for cohesion as the collection grew. And that was actually really fun for me because that was a little different. You know, I was typically to things that were put in front of me, and towards the end, it was my partners who were responding to the But it's still, you know, I would always, I always wanted to bring so I was hiring great and copywriters. And so I had this, you know, almost like that conductor analogy. I had this incredible group of, in this case, women assemble to, who had very strong and it created a great team. - So yeah, I mean, great team It's the essential thing behind any successful story. - 100%. of taste, which is really interesting 'cause it's hard to kinda But basically knowing A or without A-B comparison if we changed this part, That sort of designer taste, that's hard to make explicit what that is, but the great designers like this is gonna look good. And it's not actually, it's not the opinion, but like you can't pull people and ask 'em what looks better. You have to have the vision of that. And as you said, you also have to develop eventually the confidence such that you can like curate, you can direct teams. You can argue that no, even when there's several people that say this doesn't make any sense. If you have that vision, this will look good, that's how you come up with great designs. It's a mixture of great taste you develop over time and the confidence. - And that's a really and I think one of the all of these creative pursuits is that ability to work Right now I'm working with my husband, we have this 1400 acre and we're bringing in the best architects and the best brands. But to have a point of view and to challenge people who but not to be afraid to ask questions, it takes a lot of confidence So these are actually just So we're in the process of doing the master planning now of it. - [Lex] This is beautiful. I mean, it's on the side of a mountain. - [Ivanka] Yeah, this is It's gonna be extraordinary. Aman's gonna operate the hotel for us, and they're gonna be who's gonna be doing But it's amazing to bring and for me to be able to play around and flex the real estate muscles again and have some fun with it is- - The real estate, the design, the art. How hard is it to bring 'Cause that's like, that looks surreal, out of this world. - Well, especially on an island, it's challenging, meaning the logistics of even getting the building materials to an island are no joke. But we will execute on it, so. And it may not be this, this is sort of, as I said, early conceptual drawings, but it gives a sense of sort of wanting to honor the topography that exists. And, you know, this is but making it feel right of the vegetation and and not just have, you Obviously you want and see that gorgeous blue ocean, but how do you do that in a way that doesn't feel generic, and isn't a squandered opportunity - Yeah, and it's integrated It's a celebration of the So I guess you start from this dreamlike because this feels like a dream, and then when you're of the building materials and all the actual then it evolves from there, right? - Yeah, and so much, I mean, so much of architecture you don't see, but it's decisions made. So, how do you create where you look out of one You know, how do you and the master plan works And view corridors, and all of those components of decision making are super appreciated but - [Lex] What's a view corridor? - [Ivanka] Like to make you're not looking out and you're looking out and seeing the ocean. - So you have to- this and then you start and you start thinking about, well, in this context, do we have green roof? So if there's any hint of a roof, it's camouflaged by what already exists on the island. That's where the engineers - Well, yeah. - How do you build into a mountain side while being sensitive to - It's almost like a mathematical problem. I took a class, computational where you have to think about It's like a math problem. Well, but it's also an art problem because it's not just about making sure that there's no occlusions to the view. You have to figure out like what is the vegetation? So you have to figure all that out, and there's probably, every single building is a thing that adds extra complexity. - And then the choices, like how does the sunrise and set? - [Lex] Yeah. - So how do you wanna angle - That's awesome. and the sunset. Do you obviously want So which do you favor? The directionality of the wind, and on an island, and the wind's coming from the north and the vegetation is less So do you focus more on the southern end and have, you know, the and amenities up towards the north? So there are these really and choices you get to reflect on. - That's a fascinating sort And probably there's on like infrastructure are constraints. the grade of the land, right? If it's super steep. So also finding the areas of but still have the great I think real estate and building, it's like a giant puzzle Every piece relates to another, and it's all sort of interconnected. - Yeah, like you said like every single room is different, so every single room is a puzzle when you're doing the renovation. - [Ivanka] Yeah. - That's fascinating. - And if you're not thoughtful, like it's like at best At worst, completely ridiculous. - Quirky is such a funny word. It's such a like- I'm sure you've walked of like quirky rooms. - Yeah. and sometimes like that's charming, but most often it's charming - Yeah. - Yeah, you can tell if it's by accident or if it's intentional So much, I mean, the it's not just like how it's designed, it's how once the thing is operating, if it's a hotel, like how the culture of the place. - And the warmth. Like I think with spaces, you can feel like the soul of a structure. And I think on the hotel side, you have to think about use, all these things. When you're building you wanna think about like And especially with super modern design, sometimes like warmth is sacrificed, and I think there is a And that's where you get into sort of the interior and how fabrics can in a space which is raw building materials. And that's a really interesting, like how texture matters, And I think oftentimes it doesn't take the same priority, and I think that underestimates the impact it can have on how you - Yeah, especially when with the architecture. Yeah, fabrics and color. That's so interesting. - Finishes, you know, the choice of wood. - It's making me feel horrible about the space we're sitting in now. It's like black curtains. The warmth, I need to work on this. - No comment. - [Ivanka] But you know what I love- (Lex laughs) - This is a big two item. You're making me feel. I think you may need- to this over and over. - There may be like a - A lot, a lot. I appreciate the vegetation. (laughs) - Yeah, the fake plant, fake green plants. - You know what I love is like you come through. Like every single element- - There's a story behind it. - There's a story behind it. So it's not just some, you didn't have some your bookshelf. - You know, there's with books by the yard. - This is basically an Ikea, like this is not, this is but it does bring me joy. - [Ivanka] Yeah. - Which is one way to do design, as long as you're happy, that usually means if your that means others will be happy, or will see the joy radiate through it. But I appreciate you were grasping for compliments and you - No, I actually, I love it. I love it. Do you have like a - There's, yeah, you're looking at a human skull, which is particularly irrelevant. - This, I mean, I feel like you've really thought about all of these things. (laughs) - Yeah, there's robot, I don't know if, I mean, you've looked into robots, but there's a way to communicate love and affection from a robot that I'm really fascinated by, and a lot of cartoonists do this too. You have to, when you create cartoons and non-human like entities, you have to bring out the joy. So with WALL-E or robots in &quot;Star Wars,&quot; to be able to communicate emotion, anger and excitement through a robot is really interesting to me. And people that do it successfully are awesome, are awesome. - To make you smile. - Yeah, that makes me smile, for sure. There's a longing there. - How do you do that successfully as you bring them, your projects to life? - I think there's so that I think artists know well, but one basic one is and you now know 'cause you have a dog, is the excitement that a dog Just the recognizing you and just showing its excitement by wiggling its butt and this intense joy that overtakes its body. That moment of recognizing something. It's the double take that you're, that moment of like, where takes over your whole cognition, and you're just like there and then the other person gets excited and you both get excited together. It's kind of like that feeling, what would I put it? You know like when you go to airports and you get to see people for a long time all of a and they're meeting, and they all like run towards each other and a hug, that moment. By the way, that's awesome to watch. There's so much joy. - And dogs though will You could walk into the other room to get a glass of milk and you come back and your dog sees you So I love replicating that in robots. They actually say children, like one of the reasons why (both laughing) is that they actually don't remember not having seen you a few seconds prior. There's a term for it, but I remember when my kids were younger, you leave the room and you and they experience the you know, gone for four hours. And we grow out of that. We become very used to one another. - I kind of wanna forever be excited by the peekaboo phenomena. The simple joys. We were talking about on fashion having the confidence of taste to be able to sort of push through on this idea of a design. But you've also mentioned is Rick Rubin and his book It has some really interesting ideas, and one of them is to accept So is there some battle within yourself that you have on sort of and for the confidence, and always kind of having it together versus like accepting that things are always going to be imperfect? - I think every day. I think I wake up in the morning and, you know, I wanna be better. I wanna be a better mom, I wanna be more creative. I wanna be physically stronger. And so that very much lives You know, I think I also of being the child of two extraordinarily successful parents, and that could have been And I saw that in a lot of my friends who grew up in circumstances they were afraid to try for And I think somehow early on, I learned to kind of harness the fear of not being good enough, not being competent enough. And I harnessed it to make me better and to push me outside of my comfort zone. So I think that's always lived with me and I think it probably always will. I think you have to have that you could be better I think as you get older, as you have more reps, you know, as you have more examples of having been thrown in the deep end and figured out how to swim. You get a little bit more comfortable in your sort of abstract competency. But if that fear is not in you, I think you're not - Harness the fear. The other thing he writes that you need to trust your That's a very recruitment But so what percent of is intuition or what percent is through rigorous careful - I think it's both. It's like trust but verify, you know. I think you, I think that's also where age and experience comes into play because I think you always but I think intuition, like, well honed intuition comes from a place of accumulated knowledge, right? So oftentimes when you feel it's because you've sort like you know what's right. Or on a personal level, if you're acting in accordance you know, it just feels good. And even if it would be the if you're acting outside or core values, it doesn't feel good, and it, you know, your intuition You'll never be comfortable. So I think because of that, I start oftentimes with my intuition and then I put it through of whether that is in fact true. But very seldom do I go against what my initial instinct was, at least at this point in my life. - Yeah, I had actually with a big time business owner investor who was talking about being Like on a phone call shifting like giving away very and moving it in another Making a promise that he but knows if he works hard, he'll deliver, and all doing, just following And he said now that, you that probably some of that impulse has quieted down a little bit. He's more rational and but wonders whether it's sometimes good to just be impulsive, and to just trust your Don't deliberate too long It's interesting. It's the confidence is that leads to some of the and it's like there's a cost - There is, but I actually as you get older, you but I think you're more like attuned with. You have more experience, so your gut is like more - That's true. are more well honed. I think I found that to be true for me. You know, it doesn't feel as like reckless as when I was younger. - Amongst many other things, you were on &quot;The Apprentice.&quot; People love you on there. People love the show. So what did you learn about business, about life from the various - Well, I think you can learn everything about life from Joan Rivers, so I'm just- - [Lex] Got it from just that one human. - Gonna go with that. She was amazing. But you know, it was such because I was quite just getting started in business, and it was the number one and it went on to be and it was just this wild You know, a business show had never crossed over So it was really a moment in time. And you had regular &quot;Apprentice&quot; and then the &quot;Celebrity Apprentice.&quot; But the task, I mean, at business schools across the country. - Yeah, that's great. I'd be reading case studies of how &quot;The Apprentice&quot; was being examined and taught to classes in this university in Boston or, you know, so it was extraordinary. And this was like a real So I think because of you learn a lot about, you know, teamwork, and you're watching it and You learned a lot about, a lot of the tasks were because of, you know, the they had to execute. A lot of, you learned a because of that short duration. So, you know, almost every episode would devolve into people hysterical over the fact that they with this herculean lift ahead of them. So, it was a fascinating, it was a fascinating experience for me. And we would be filming, I mean, we would film first thing in the morning at like 5:00 or 6:00 AM like in the lobby of Trump Tower. That's where the war rooms and board rooms of the candidates were, the contestants were. And then we would go up in we would work all day, and we'd evaluate the task. It was this weird like experience in the middle of our, sort of on the bookends of our work day. So it was intense. - So you're like curating and also living it. - Living, and oftentimes Like there were episodes that they came up with brand campaigns or my clothing line, or designed challenges a hotel I was responsible for building. So there was this unbelievable crossover that was obviously great for but it's sometimes surreal to experience. - What was it like? Was it scary to be in front of a camera when you know so many people watch? I mean, that's a new experience just the number of people watching. - Yeah. - It was really weird. I really struggled watching Like I really, I still to this day, like television as a medium, like the fact that we're taping this, I'm more self-conscious I just, it's- - Hey, I have to watch myself, as after we record this, I have to listen to my stupid - [Ivanka] So you're saying - It doesn't get better. - I still, I hear myself, I'm like, &quot;Does my voice You know, why do I do And I find it, some and who knows, maybe they're not either, but some people feel like You know, my father was. I think like who you saw is who you get, and I think that made him because he was just himself, and he was totally unselfconscious. I was not. I was totally self-conscious. So it was, it was extraordinary but also a little challenging for me. - I think certain people are just like born to be entertainers, like Elvis, like on This is where they're truly happy. I've met guys like that, Like this is where they feel It's not just a thing they do and there's certain aspects they love, certain aspects they don't. No, this is where they're alive. This is where they've This is where they want to be forever. - Michael Jackson was like that. - Michael Jackson. I saw pictures of you hanging That was cool. (laughs) - He came once to a performance. I wanted to be, one moment in time, I wanted to be a professional ballerina. - [Lex] Okay, yes, yes. - And I was, you know, I was going to the School I was dancing at the Lincoln I was super serious, you And my parents came to of &quot;The Nutcracker&quot; and my father brought Michael Jackson with him. And everyone was so excited they wore one glove. But I remember he was so shy. He was so quiet when you'd see him like and then you'd watch him walk onto stage and it was like a Like the vitality that came into him, and you say that's like someone who was born to do what he did. And I think there are a lot - And I just in general love to see people that have found the thing Like I, as I mentioned, with Paul Rosalie, and he's a guy who just belongs in the jungle. Like, that's a guy where I got a chance to go with him and you just see this person The joy he has when he first is able to jump in the water of the Amazon River, and to feel like he's home with And he's calling friends and he probably dances around So this is where he belongs, - You felt that. I mean, I watched the interview you did with him and you felt that, like his passion and I mean, I love animals, like I love all animals. Never loved snakes so much. And he almost made me, now I appreciate the beauty of them much more than I did prior to listening to But it's an infectious thing. He actually, we were talking I loved, he called trees and I thought that was so great. - Yeah, and they are, they're so big. I mean, just like skyscrapers or large buildings, they especially in Europe. I like to think, looking at you like to think of all the that have looked at have been inspired by them, you know, great leaders of history. In France, it's like Napoleon, just the history that's you almost feel the You could feel the stories And that same way when that have been there for in some cases, you feel the history, the stories emanate. I got a chance to climb some of them, so you feel like there's of the power of the trees. It's cool. That's an experience I'd love to have, be that disconnected. - Yeah. Being in the jungle among you remember that you're You fundamentally are nature. That this is, earth is a living organism, and you're a part of that organism. And that's humbling, that's beautiful, and you get to experience It sounds simple to say, but when you actually like experience it, it stays with you for a long time, especially if you're out there alone. I got a chance to spend just by myself, and you in the simplicity of that, all of it, and just no sounds of humans and anywhere. You're just sitting there and listening to all the monkeys and the birds trying to have sex with each other, all around you just screaming. And there's like romantic, I mean, I romanticize everything. There's like birds that like macaws, you could see They're also, by the way, And I always wonder like, are they arguing or is this their love language? - That's very funny. these like two birds that you know have been and they're just screaming - That's really funny because there aren't that are monogamous. And you highlighted one example, but they literally sound - But maybe to them, it's beautiful. You know, I don't wanna judge, but they do sound very But amidst all of that - I think it's so humbling Like I feel like when we get busy and when we're running around, it's easy to feel we're so in our head and we feel sort of so consequential, like in the context of even our own lives. And then you find yourself and I think you feel knowing how minuscule you And I feel that way when I'm You know, you just, it's really humbling to be so small amidst that vast sea. And it feels, it feels really beautiful, you know, with no noise, no Just being in the moment. And it sounds like you experienced that in a very, very real way in the Amazon. - Yeah, the power of the waves is cool. I love swimming out into the ocean and feeling the power of that you're just like this speck. - And you can't fight it, right? You just have to sort of be in it. And I think in surfing, one of the things I love about it is I feel you're like manipulating And there's something that can be a little like violent about it, like whereas with surfing, you're So you're not fighting it, you're flowing with it. And you still have like the agency of choosing which waves you're gonna surf, and you sit there and you read the ocean, and you learn to understand it, but you can't control it. - What's it like to like fall on your face when Like, what, I haven't surfed before. It just feels like, I always see videos of when everything goes great. I just wonder like when it doesn't. - Those are the ones people post. No, well, I actually had of one of my first time surfing. I only learned a couple of I just love it. I love everything about it. I love the physicality, I I love everything about it. The hardest thing with because when you're like committing, you catch a wave obviously you flip over your board But when you're in sort and you've maybe surfed a good wave in and now you're going out for another set, and you get sort of stuck there's like nothing you can do. You just sort of sit there and you try to dive underneath it, and it will pound you and pound you. So I've been stuck there while, you know, four or five, six waves just And the worst thing you and you know, and scared and You kind of just have to flow with it until inevitably there's a break, and then paddle like hell or to the beach, you know, But that's, to me, the paddling out. - How did life change to run for president? - Wow, everything changed, you know, almost overnight. We learned that he was planning to announce his candidacy two And nothing about our lives had been constructed You know, most often to politics at that level, there's first like city council run, and then maybe a state level run, and maybe, maybe, you ultimately the presidency. So it was unheard of for him never to have run a campaign and then run for president and win. So it was an extraordinary There was so much intensity and so much noise. So that took for sure like I'm not sure I ever fully acclimated, but it definitely was a But I think then the process that unfolded over the next couple of years was also like the most extraordinary growth experience of my life. You know, suddenly I was that I probably never would've been to, and I was talking with people who in 30 seconds would reveal to me their deepest insecurity, their wildest ambitions, all of it, with the hope that in it would get back to a of the United States and have for their community. So the level of candor and vulnerability people have with you is unlike anything I've ever experienced. And I had done &quot;The Apprentice&quot; before. People may know who I was in some of these situations but they wouldn't have shared with me these things that you got the impression that oftentimes their own and they wouldn't do so within 30 seconds. So you learn so much about what motivates people, what drives people, what their concerns are, and you grow so much as a result of it. - So when you're in the White House, people, unlike in any other position, people have a sense that all the troubles they're going through, maybe you can help, and so they put it all out there. - And they do so in such a raw, vulnerable, and real way. It's shocking and eye-opening, and super motivating. I remember once I was in New Hampshire, and early on, right after my father had announced his candidacy, and a man walks up to and within around five seconds he had started to tell me a story about how his daughter and how he was worried his son was also addicted to opioids. His daughter's friends, his son's friends, and it's heartbreaking. It's heartbreaking and it's something that I would experience every - And those stories just stay with you. - [Ivanka] Always. - You know, I took a long road trip around the United States in my 20s, and I'm kind of thinking of doing it again just for like a couple of And you can get these stories when you go to like a bar and just sit and talk to people, and they start sharing. And it reminds you of like It reminds you of several things. One, that people, well, it shows you that there's a lot of different But aside from that, that people are struggling and at least at that time. I wonder what it is now, but at that time, I don't remember, on the surface there was like political divisions. There's Republicans and but like underneath it, their concerns are all the same and there's not that much of a division. Right now, the surface division has been amplified even more, maybe because of social media. I don't know why. So I would love to see what but I suspect probably as it appears to be on the what the social media shows. But what did you experience - Well, I think a couple I think the first is, when you connect with people like that, you are so inspired by their courage, you know, in the face of And it's like a truly For me, the campaign I didn't even know I was in. You know, I grew up on the and I felt like I was well and I believed that, that I'd been exposed And I realized during the campaign how limited my exposure had been, relative to what it was becoming. So there was a lot of But I do think, you know, you think about the vitriol whether it's worse than it's I think that's up for debate. I think, you know, there have been, there have been duals. - Right? and there's, you know, politics has always been a blood sport and it's always been incredibly vicious. I think in the toxic it's more amplified, and there are, there's more sort of democratization around participating in it perhaps. And it seems like the voices are louder, but it's always been, it feels But I don't believe most and, you know, you meet and they're not leading with You know, they're telling you about their hopes for themselves and it makes you feel that we are a whole lot less divided than, you know, the media and - Although I have to say, having duals sounds pretty cool. Maybe I just romanticize All right, I miss Clint Eastwood movies. Okay. (laughs) But it's true, like, you like in terms of what politics used to be in the history of the United States, those folks went pretty rough, like way rougher actually. But they didn't have social media, so they had to go like real hard, and the media was rough too. So all like the fake news, all of that, that's not recent. (laughs) It's been nonstop. You know, I look at the surface division, the surface bickering, and that might be like that it's not a bug of We're in a constant conflict, and it's the way we resolve, we try to figure out So in the moment, it feels like people are just tearing each other apart, but really we're trying to find the way where like, in the long arc of history, it will look like progress, it just sounds like about each other and and all this kind of stuff. But in that there's a purpose to it. I mean, that's what freedom looks like I guess is what I'm trying to say, and it's better than the alternative. - Well, I think that the vast majority of people aren't participating in it. - Sure, yes, that's true also. - You know, I think there's that are doing most of and the majority of Americans just wanna send their and want their communities to thrive, and want to be able to realize their dreams and aspirations. So I saw a lot more of that than it would feel obvious if you looked at like a Twitter feed. - What went into your decision to join the White House as an advisor? - You know, the campaign, I never thought about joining. It was kind of like, get to the end of it. And when it started, I was like, everything in my life was I had two young kids at home. During the course of the campaign, I ended up, I was pregnant with my third, so this young family, my businesses, real estate, and fashion, and working alongside my brothers running the Trump Hotel collection. And we had so many, my and so there was a big part of me that just wanted to get without really thinking forward to what the implications were for me. But when my father won, he asked Jared and I to join him, and in asking that question, you know, keep in mind he was a total outsider. So there was no bench of He had never spent the night staying in the White House. And so when he asked us to He trusted in our ability to execute. And there wasn't a part this 70 or 80-year-old version of myself looking back and having been and going back to my I mean, in retrospect, I as you know it before, you know. But just the idea of not saying yes wherever that would lead You know, I was also, during I was just much more sensitive to the problems and I gave you an example before of the father in New Hampshire. But even just in my you know, I had a business that was predominantly many of which were thinking had just had a child, were And I knew what they needed to be able to show up every day and realize this dream for themselves, and the support structures they And I remember reading in one of the major newspapers of a woman, she had had a very solid job working at one of the blue and the recession came, she lost her job around the same time as and over a matter of So she wound up with her two young kids, after bouncing around between neighbors, living in their car. She gets a call back from she had done for a second interview where she was all but guaranteed the job should that go well. And she had arranged childcare for her two young children with a neighbor in her And the morning of the and the neighbor doesn't And she stands there 5, 10 so she has a choice. Does she go to the or does she try to cancel? She gets in her car, leaves her two children with the window cracked, and gets pulled out of because somebody had called the cops after seeing her children She gets thrown in jail, and she spends years And I think about, that's but I think about something like that. And I say, if I was the mother and we were homeless, like, would I have gone to that interview? And I probably would've. And that is not like an You know, so you hear stories like that and then you get asked, And it's really hard to say no. You know, I spent four I feel like I left it all in the field. I feel really good about it, and I feel really privileged to have been able to do what I did. - A chance to help many people. Saying no means you're from those people. - It felt like that to me. - Yeah. Yeah, but then it's that you're getting into, and it really is a leap What was it like trying to In this place where politics is a game. It feels that way, maybe And you go in there trying, given some of those stories, What's it like to get anything done? - It's an incredible cognitive lift. (both laughing) - That's a nice way to put it, yeah. - To get things done. You know, there are a lot of people who would prefer to cling to the problem and their talking points about rather than sort of roll up their sleeves and do the work it takes to and find people who are willing to compromise and move the ball. And so it's extremely difficult, and you know, Jared and I it probably should be, because these are highly that impact people's lives at scale. Shouldn't be so easy to do them, and they are doable but it's challenging. You know, one of the where it really was was with tax cuts and the work I did to get the child tax credit And it just meant meeting after meeting with lawmaker, convincing them of why Going into their districts, campaigning in their districts. Helping them convince their constituents of why it's important, of why childcare support is important, of why paid family leave is important, of different policies that So it's hard but it's really rewarding. And then to get it done, I mean, just the child tax credit alone, 40 million American of $2,200 each year as a result of the doubling of the child tax credits. That was one component of tax cuts. - When I was like researching this stuff, you just get to think the scale of things. The scale of impact is Each one of those is a story, of trying to give a large while still being able and care to family, to kids, Each one of those is a little puzzle that they have to solve, and it's a life and death puzzle. You can lose your home, your security, you can lose your job. You can screw stuff up with parenting. So you can mess all that up and you're trying to hold it together, and government policies or can in some cases make that possible. And you get to do that a scale not of like 5 or 10 families, but like 40 million families, and that's just one thing. The people who shared and, you know, during the campaign it was what they hoped to see happen. Once you were in there, it was what they were seeing, the result of the policies, and that was the fuel, you know. On the hardest days, Child tax credit, I remember visiting with a She came to the White House. She had two small children. She was pregnant with her third. Her husband was killed in a car accident. She was in school at the time. Her dream was to become a That was no longer on the table for her after he passed away and she became the sole earner and provider for her family. And she couldn't afford childcare, she couldn't afford to stay in school, so she ended up creating a childcare center in her home. And her center was so successful because in part of different including the childcare block grants that went to the state. She ended up opening additional centers. I visited her at one of them in Colorado. Now she has like a huge who don't have the resources for their kids, come into And you know, it's stories like that of the hardships people face, but also what they do with opportunity when they're given it that through tough moments - What can you say about the process of like bringing that to life? So the child tax credits, so doubling them from Like what are the challenges of that, getting people to compromise? I'm sure there's a lot of politicians playing games with that, because maybe it's a Republican or a Democrat that came up with an idea, and so they don't want to and there's probably all When the game is happening, you probably forget about the families. Each politician thinks about how they can benefit themselves. You forget like the serving part of the role you're supposed to be in. - There were definitely people who I felt that was true of. But you know, they all go and I assume that they all to what I had where people so there'd be something really cynical about thinking they forget, but, you know, some do. - You helped get people Trying to get people to compromise, trying to get people to - Well, I think first and foremost, you have to be willing to talk with them. So, you know, one of the policies I advocate for was paid family leave. We left and 9 million through a combination of securing it for our federal workforce. I had people in the White who didn't have access to paid leave. So we want to keep people yet when they have an important we create an impossibility for that. You know, some people to unpaid leave if So that and then we also put in place the first ever national tax credit for workers making under $72,000 a year, where employers could then That was also part of tax cuts. So, you know, part of it is as to why this is good, to people, and you know, it that on certain policy issues that I thought would've the policies that across the aisle. So people just lived with them, maybe in hopes that one day to get exactly what they want, but I was surprised by how So, I think part of it is be willing to have those tough who may not share your viewpoint, and be an active listener and they have suggestions for changes. Not believing that you have And I think there has in architecting these things, and a policy should benefit from that type of well-rounded input. - Yeah, be able to see, like you said, well-designed policies. There's probably like the Like just like with architecture, and you walk the rooms, there's probably really like economic policy that helps families, that delivers the maximum amount of money or resources to families that need it, and is not a waste of money. So like that, there's a probably nice ideas that are bipartisan that has nothing to do with politics, has to do with just great economic policy, just great policies, and - Requires trust too. - Trust. tax cuts was really interesting for me because I met with so many people across the political spectrum I really figured out who was willing to deviate from their talking points when the door was closed and who wasn't. You know, and it takes especially without surety that You know, especially if they've campaigned on something that was slightly different. And you know, not So through tax cuts, I learned the people who did have that courage, and I went back to that on policies that I thought were important. You know, some were bipartisan. The Great American it's incredible policy- - [Lex] I love that one. - Yeah, it's amazing. It's one of the largest pieces of conservation legislation since the National Park And you know, over 300 million people visit our national parks, the vast majority of them So this is something that is real and beneficial for people's lives, getting rid of the deferred maintenance, permanently funding them. But there are other issues like that, that just weren't being prioritized. Modernizing Perkins CTE, you and it's something I became and helped lead the charge on. I think in America for a we've really believed that education stops when you leave and that is not true, and So how can we both to ensure that they for the jobs they know are coming? And how they train into the new jobs with or new technologies that So galvanizing the private So whether it's the legislative side, like the actual of Perkins CTE, which was focused on vocational education, or whether it's the ability to galvanize the private sector. We got over 16 million commitments from the private sector to retrain or re-skill workers into - Yeah, there's so many aspects of education that you helped on. Access to STEM and So the CTE thing you're mentioning. Modernizing career and and that's millions, millions of people. The act provided nearly to more than 13 million students to better align the employer needs and all that kind of stuff. Very large scale policies that help a lot of people. It's fascinating. - Education often isn't everyone's running towards. So one of the hard things in politics when there's something sometimes it has no momentum because it doesn't have a cheerleader. So where are areas of good policy that you can like literally just carry across the finish line? Because people tend to run towards what's the news of the day, sort of to try to address whatever issue is being talked about on And there's so many issues that need to be addressed, and you know, education is one of them that's just underprioritized. You know, human trafficking, that's an issue that I didn't go to the White House but you hear a story of a survivor, and you can't not wanna eradicate one of the greatest evils that the mind can even imagine. You know, the trafficking of people, the exploitation of children. And I think for so many, they assume that this is a problem that doesn't happen on our shores. You know, it's something at far-flung destinations but it's happening there and And so through a coalition of people that on both sides of the aisle that I came to trust we were able to get legislation, passed nine pieces of legislation combating trafficking at home and abroad, and digital exploitation of children. - How much of a toll does that take? Seeing all the problems in the world at such a large scale, Was that hard to walk around with that, just knowing how much suffering As you're trying to help all of it, as you're trying to to help all of that, it's also a very visceral recognition that there is suffering in the world. How difficult is that to walk around with? - You feel it intensely. You know, we were just talking I mean, you don't design these policies in the absence of the input So you hear their stories. I remember a woman who in my thinking, Andrea Hipwell, who she was in college by a guy she thought was a He gets her hooked on drugs, convinces her to drop out of college, and spends the next She only got out when she was arrested. And all too often that's happening too, that the victim's being targeted, not the perpetrator. So we did a lot with DOJ But now she's helping other survivors get skills and job training, and the therapeutic But you speak with people like Andrea and so many others, and your heart gets seized by it. And it's both, it's motivating and it's hard, it's really hard. - I was just talking to a brain surgeon, many of the surgery he has to do, he knows the chances and he says that that wears It's like only so many - And thank God he is doing it because I bet you there that don't choose that particular field because of those low success rates. - But you could see the pain in his eyes, like maintaining your humanity you could see the story, you could see the family Just you feel the immensity of that, and you feel the heartbreak involved with mortality in that case, and with suffering also in that case. And in general in all But even helping families trying to break out or escape poverty, all that, you get to see those stories of struggle, it's not easy. But the people that really feel the pain of that are to be politicians, but it's probably also why you - It's the only time in my life where you actually feel, like there's always a conflict, right, between work and life, and making sure, you know, as a woman, I'd often get asked about, you know, how do you balance work and family? And I never liked that question because balance, it's like elusive, right? You're one fever away from Like your child's sick one day, oh, what do you do? There goes balance, or you know, you have a huge project with a deadline, there goes balance. Like I think a better way to frame it is, am I living in accordance Maybe not every day, but every week, you know, every month, and reflecting on, have that aligns with your priorities, so that more often than not, you're where you need And service at that level was the one time where you really, you feel incredibly conflicted about having any priorities It's finite. You know, in every business I've built, you're building for duration, you know, and then you go into the White House, and it is sand through an hourglass, whether it's four years or eight years, it's a finite period of time you have, and most people don't last four years. I think the average in the It's exhausting. But it's the only time when you're at home with your own children that you feel, you think about all the people you've met and you feel guilty about not advancing those interests to the best of your capacity. And that's a hard thing. That's a really hard feeling as a parent. And it's really challenging to always need to answer your phone, to always need to be available. It's very difficult. It's taxing, but it's also the greatest privilege in the world. - So through that, the turmoil of that, the hardship of that, what was the role of Jared and the kids? What was that like? - That was everything. You know, to have that, to have the support systems I had in place with my husband. And, you know, we had left New York and wound up in Washington. In New York, I lived 10 blocks who if I wasn't taking my So we lost some of that, but we had what mattered, And you know, my kids were Theo, my youngest was eight months old, and Arabella my oldest, my daughter was five years old. So they were still quite young. We have a son, Joseph, who was three. And I think for me, coming home at night and having and it was super grounding and important for me. I still remember Theo, three and a years old, Jared used to make me and it was like my great He still makes it for me every morning. I told him, I'm never, how to actually work the coffee machine, but I've convinced him that I have no idea how to work the coffee machine. Now I'm gonna be busted. But it's a skill I don't wanna learn because it's one of his like acts of love. He brings me coffee every morning in bed while I read the newspapers, and Theo would watch this, and so he got Jared to teach And Theo learned how to make - Nice. he had so much joy every morning bringing me this cappuccino. And I remember like the you know, like the slides. It was so cute coming down the hallway with my like perfectly foamed cappuccino. Now I try to get him to make me coffee and he is like, &quot;Come on, mom.&quot; (laughs) That was a moment in time, but we had a lot of like that were just amazing, so. - Yeah, I got a chance to chat with him and he has, his silliness it's, yeah, it's really joyful. I could see how that could be an escape from the madness of the quote unquote adult life. we really kept like our home life pretty sheltered from everything else, and we were able to do so and because they weren't They were too young for smartphones, all of these things. We were able to shelter and protect them and allow them to have as was possible in the And they brought me like, and continue to bring But they were, I mean, without Jared and without the kids, it - So three kids, you've now upgraded, two dogs and a hamster. - Well, our second dog, we thought he was probably part lab is what we were told. He's now, I don't even know He's like the size of a horse, a small horse. - Simba. So I don't think he has much lab in him. (both laughing) Joseph has not wanted to do a DNA test because he really wanted so he's a German Shepherd. - He is gigantic. And we also have a hamster because my son Theo, he tried to get, he tried to get a dog as well. Our first dog Winter as she wouldn't let her or sleep with him, and was old enough to bully them into submission. So then Joseph wanted a dog and got Simba. Theo now wants the dog and has Buster the hamster - What advice would you give to other mothers just And maybe advice to figuring out this puzzle? - I think being a parent, you have to cultivate within yourself like heightened levels of empathy. You have to really look at each child and see them for who they are, what they enjoy, what they love, and meet them where they're at. And I think that can be when your kids are so You know, as they get older, that difference in temperament may be within the same child, depending on the moment of the day. But it's really, I think a much softer person, I think I see people more as opposed to how I want And I think being a parent to three children who are all exceptional and all in incredibly different I think for me though, they've also been like some of my greatest teachers in that we were talking about the presence you felt when and the connectivity you felt, and sort of the simple joy. And I think for us as we grow older, we kind of disconnect from that. Like, my kids have taught and that's beautiful. I remember just a couple of weeks ago, we had one of these crazy and Arabella comes down, it's It's really raining, and she's got rain boots and she's gonna take the dogs for a walk in the rain. - Which, you know, she but she wasn't doing it because they needed to go for a walk. She was like, this would be fun. And I'm standing at the and she goes out with Simba and Winter, this massive dog and this little tiny dog. And I'm watching her walk and she's just dancing and it's pouring. And I took off my shoes and and we danced in the rain. And even as like a preteen she like allowed me to and it was amazing. We can be so much more fun if we allow ourselves to be more playful. We can be so much more present. I look at, Theo loves games, so we play a whole lot of So it started with board games. We do a lot of puzzles, I just taught him how to play poker. - [Lex] Nice. - He loves backgammon, And he's so fully in them, you know, when he plays, he plays. My son Joseph, he loves nature, and he'll say to me sometimes when like I'm taking a picture of something he's observing, like a beautiful sunset, he's like, &quot;Mom, just experience it.&quot; Like, &quot;Yes, you're right Joseph. Just experience it.&quot; You know, so those kids have taught me so much about sort of reconnecting with what's real and what's true and being present in the moment and experiencing joy. - They always give you permission to sort of reignite the inner child, just be a kid again, yeah. And it's interesting what you said, the puzzle of noticing each human being, like what makes them beautiful, the unique characteristics, like what they're good at. The way they want to be mentored. Like I often see that, especially with coaches and athletes, young athletes aspiring to be great, each athlete needs to be Like I, for example, with some, you need a softer approach. Like with me, I always like I like the coach to be That brought out the best in me. I didn't want to be Like I want to almost, but yelled at, like to be pushed. But that doesn't work for everybody. And that's a risk you have to take in the coach context of like, 'cause you can't just yell at everybody. You have to figure out like, And when you have kids, I imagine the puzzle is even harder. - And when they all need different things, but yet coexist and are sometimes competitive with one another. So you'll be at a dinner table, the amount of times I get, Why did you let,&quot; and I'm like, &quot;Life isn't fair, and by the way, like, I'm not here to be fair.&quot; I'm like, &quot;I'm trying to Especially when I've and you know, in the White House, I'd say, okay, well, now we have a and I'll have like a grand plan, you know, and we're gonna make it count, and it's gonna involve, you know, hot chocolate and sleds, you know, whatever it is that That we're gonna go play mini golf, and then I come down all psyched up, all ready to go and the (both laughing) And there have been a lot of times where I've been like, and then I realized, like sometimes you just and start playing magnet tiles, you know, and like that's where they need you. And so those of us who have sort of like alpha personalities who sometimes it's just witness, like witness what they need. Don't, like play with them and Don't force them down a road you may think is more interesting, or productive, or educational, or edifying. You know, just be with them, observe them and then show them that about the things that they I think there's a lot of - Also, there's just fascinating puzzles. I was talking to a friend yesterday and she has four kids, and she generally wants but she's like, I'm not sure if I'm just supposed to let them fight. Can they figure it out? But you always break them up because I'm told that it's kids to do that. They kind of figure out That's part of like But you wanna always, they're like pushing each other, you want to kind of stop it. But at the same time, it's part of the dynamics, and that's a puzzle you And plus you're probably worried that they're gonna get hurt if they're- - Well, I think there's that's like, okay, we have to intervene. I know you're into martial arts, but that's normally like the red line, you know, once it tips into that. But there is always that, you know, like you have to allow them to problem solve for themselves. Like a little interpersonal It's really hard when you because everyone thinks You have oftentimes I think for parents, is we see our kids in a way that all kids do, and we start to project into the future and like catastrophize. You know, if like my two sons where they're like oil and water, anything one wants to do, the other doesn't wanna do. It's like a very interesting moment. And so my instinct is, &quot;They're not gonna like You know, you sort of as opposed to recognizing this is a stage that I too went through, and it's normal, and it's not building it in your mind into something that's - It's short term formative conflict. - [Ivanka] Yeah. - So ever since 2016, the number and the level of attacks you've been under has has been super intense. How do you walk through the fire of that? You've been very stoic I don't think I've ever seen You just let it pass over you. You stay positive and you And you didn't engage, while being in DC, you didn't engage into of the politics. So what's your philosophy behind that? - I appreciate your saying that I was very stoic about it. I think, you know, I feel so initially some of that Like some of the some of the intensity of the attacks. And there were times when it I'd even write something out and say, &quot;Well, I'm gonna I felt that sort of getting into the mud, fighting back, it didn't run true to who I am as a human being. Like it didn't, it felt and how I wanna spend my time. So I think as a result, I was oftentimes on the receiving end of a lot of cheap shots. And I'm okay with that I know how to be in the world. I was focused on things And you know, I think part there's a concept in which is translated into I think quite literally evil speech. And the idea that, you know, speaking poorly of another is almost the moral equivalent to murder, because you can't really repair it. You can apologize, but Another component of that is to the person saying the words than it does to the person receiving them. And I think about that a lot. I talk about this concept And I'm not willing to pay the price of that fleeting and of sort of swinging back, because I think it would be And that's how I kind because I think that's just, But it is a little bit It's definitely, it's definitely a contrarian viewpoint to not get into the fray. Actually, somebody I love, she doesn't condemn or criticize, she loves and accepts and I like that. It feels right for me. - I also like that you It's not, sometimes people say, well, words, when you ah, that's just words. But I think there's a cost to that. There's a cost, like and there's a cost in terms of the damage it can do to the other person, whether it's to their reputation publicly or to them privately, just as a human being psychologically. And in the place that it puts them because they start thinking and then maybe they respond, and there's this vicious that almost like we don't intend to, but it destroys everybody in the process. You quoted Alan Watts. I love him. In saying, &quot;You're under no obligation to be the same person you So how have the years in DC and the years after changed you? - I love Alan Watts too. I listen to his lecture he's got like, and on planes. He's got like the most soothing voice. But I love what he said about, &quot;You have no obligation to be who you were five minutes ago,&quot; because we should always to evolve and grow and better ourselves. I think further than that, on who we were a few years ago with some level of embarrassment, we're not growing enough, right? So there's nothing, when you know, I feel like that feeling is, you know, because you're growing into, hopefully, you know, sort of And I hope and feel that that's I think the person I am today, you know, we spoke in the beginning about some of my earliest ambitions in real estate and in fashion, and those were amazing adventures, and incredible experiences in government. And I feel today that all of those ambitions are more fully integrated into me as a human being. I'm much more comfortable with the various pieces of my personality, and that any professional drive is more integrated into Like everything for me has gotten like much simpler and easier in terms of what I wanna And I think that's where, you know, my kids have been my teachers, and enjoying like the little moments. And it doesn't mean I'm any less like driven than I was before. It's just more a part of me than being sort of the one has in their twenties. - Yeah, just like you said with your mom, be able to let go, enjoy the - Yeah. the simplicity of the moment. - I think a lot about for a lot of young people, they really know what they wanna do, but they don't actually know who they are. And then I think as you get older, hopefully you know who you are, and you're much more comfortable with ambiguity around what You're more flexible in your - And give yourself - Yeah. - You made the decision not to engage in the politics of the 2024 campaign. If it's okay, let me read &quot;I love my father very much. This time around I'm choosing to prioritize my young children and the private life we're I do not plan to be involved in politics. While I will always love and support my father going forward, I will do so outside the political arena. I'm grateful to have had the honor of serving the American people and I will always be proud of many of our administration's So can you explain your thinking, your philosophy behind that decision? - I think first and foremost, it was a decision rooted really thinking about what You know, politics is a and I think it's one that I think you have to either And I know today the cost they would pay for me being all in, emotionally in terms of my absence at such a formative point in their life, and I'm not willing to I served for four years and feel so privileged to have done it. But as their mom, I think that I do what's right for them. And I think there are a You know, I think there's, obviously we talked about the enormity, the scale of what can be accomplished in government service. But you know, I think there's something equally valuable about helping within your own community. And I volunteer with the kids a lot, and we feel really good It's different, but So I think there are other ways, there are other ways to serve. I also think for, you know, politics is, it's a pretty dark world. Like there's a lot of and it's just really at odds with what feels good And, you know, it's a really, it's a really rough business. So, for me and my family, it - So it wears on your soul, and yeah, there is a bit, at least from an outsider's perspective, a bit of darkness in I wish it didn't have to be this way. - Me too. - I think part of that darkness is just watching all the What's it like for you to see that, your father involved in - On a human level, it's my father and I love him very much, so it's painful to experience. But ultimately, I wish it - I like it that underneath all of this, &quot;I love my father&quot; is the And that's so true, it is family. And I hope amidst all this turmoil, love is the thing that wins. - It usually does. - In the end, yes. - But in the short term, there is, like we were talking about, there's a bit of bickering, - (laughs) No more duals. - You mentioned Dolly Parton. (laughs) - That's a segue. (laughs) - Listen, I'm not very good at this thing. I'm trying to figure it out. Okay, we both love Dolly Parton. (laughs) So, you're big into live music, so maybe you can mention I definitely would love to talk to, I would love to interview her. She's such an icon. She's such an incredible human. - What I love about her, and I've really come to is she's so authentically herself, and she's obviously so talented and so accomplished and But I just feel like she has no conflict within herself as to who she is. She reminds me a lot and it's super refreshing to observe somebody who's being so fully secure in who they are, what their talent is, So I think she's amazing, and she leads with a lot of So I think she's very cool. I hope you have a long - Yeah, she's like, okay, so there's many things to say about her. First, like incredibly great musician, songwriter, performer. Also can create an image You know, like have fun being - It feels that way, right? Like she's really, she enjoys, after all these years, it she like enjoys what she does. And you also have the sense that if she didn't, she wouldn't do it. - That's right. And just an iconic country musician, country music singer. - There's a lot, we've talked Who do you enjoy? You mentioned Adele, seeing her perform, hanging out with her. - Yeah, I mean, she's extraordinary. Her voice is unreal. So she is, I find her to be so talented. And she's so unique in that She was actually the first concert Arabella ever went to when she was around four, and 90 year olds love her music. And that's pretty rare to have that kind of bandwidth of resonance. So, I think she's so talented. We actually just saw her, I took all three kids in Las Alice Johnson, whose case I had worked with in the White House, my father commuted her sentence. Her case was brought to me by a friend, Kim Kardashian, and she came to the show. We all went together And that was like a very profound, it was amazing to see Adele, but it was a very to have with my kids in the car on the way to the show, and she talked to my and her story, and how her And I think for young children, it's very abstract, you know, policy, and so for her to be able was a very beautiful moment, and led to a lot of really with each of my kids because, you know, they gave Actually, Alice told them about the plays she used how these shows were like Like you could not get into them, they always extended their run. But for the people who were in them, a lot of those men and women Nobody had ever shown up at their games or at their plays and clapped for them, and the emotional experience to give someone that, you and applaud for someone and And she was showing us pictures from these different productions, and it was a really, it Alice actually after her and she came out of prison, together we worked on 23 So the impact of her experience and how she was able and create that same who were deserving and who she believed in was very beautiful. So anyway, that was an for my kids to be able - What a story. So just, that's the sort of- - Then here we are - [Lex] Exactly, exactly, - Six years later, was almost - Yeah, so that policy, resulted in a major turning point in her life and Alice's life, and now you're dancing with Adele. - And now we're at Adele. - Yeah, I mean you mentioned also there, I've seen commutations to step in and consider the ways that the justice system Like in cases when it's nonviolent crime and drug offenses, you mentioned that for selling weed. (laughs) - [Ivanka] Yeah, yeah. - You know, and it's just the number, it's like hundreds of thousands of people are in the federal prison, in jail, in the system for selling drugs, that's the only thing, with no violence on And obviously there's a lot of complexity, the details matter, but oftentimes the justice system does not do right in the way we think right is. And it's nice to be able to step in and help people like, and directly- - They're overlooked and Jared and I helped in a but he really spearheaded the effort on criminal justice reform which was an enormously that gave so many people and that was amazing. So working with him closely on that was a beautiful thing for us to also experience together. But in the final days you know, you're not and anything you do administratively is gonna be probably overturned by an incoming administration. So, you know, how do you use And I really like dug in on pardons and commutations that I thought were overdue and were worthy. And my last night in Washington DC, the gentleman you mentioned Corvain, I was on the phone with his mother at 12:30 in the morning telling her that her son would be You know, so, and it felt but you see with Alice you know, the commutation granted to her, and her ability and the impact she'll have within her family with her grandkids. And now she's an advocate for so many others who are voiceless. You know, it felt like the to be able to call those parents, and call those kids in some cases, and give them the news that - And I just love the cool image of you, Kim Kardashian and Alice just dancing at an Adele I love it. - Well, Kim wasn't at the - Oh, she's the, got it. - She had connected us. It was beautiful. It was really beautiful. - The way Adele like can hold just like the badassness she has on stage. - [Ivanka] Oh yeah. - She does like heartbreak songs like better than anyone, or Like what's that genre of song? Like &quot;Rolling in the a little love, a little like and just like one of the All that together, just by herself. - You can strip it down You know, I think about that, one of the things we were one of the amazing things now is there's so much that's been uploaded to YouTube. So sometimes I just sit there and watch these like old shows. We both love Stevie Ray Vaughan, like watching him perform. You can even find old videos of like Django Reinhardt. - [Lex] You got me- - I got you. Stevie Ray Vaughan. - We had this moment, which is hilarious that you said like one of the songs you really like of - Well, my bucket list is - It's a bucket list, it's just a bucket list item. You made me feel so good because for me, &quot;Texas Flood&quot; was the first solo on guitar I've ever learned, because for me, it was like the impossible solo, and then that was, so I worked It's like one of the most Texas blues songs. And now you made me fall and wanna play it live, at the very least put it up on YouTube, 'cause it is, it's so fun to improvise, and when you lose yourself in the song, it truly is a blues song. You can have fun with it. - I hope you do do that. - Throw honesty- I want you to play it for me. (laughs) - 100%, 100%. - But he's amazing, and you know, there's so many great performers that are playing live now. You know, I just saw Chris Stapleton show. He's an amazing country artist. - [Lex] He's too good. - He's so good. - [Ivanka] Lucas Nelson's- - Lucas Nelson. to see live, and there's songwriters and musicians that But I think you also, you can go online and watch some of these old performances. Like Django Reinhardt was the first, because I torture myself, I learned to play on the guitar, and it took me like nine months to a year. It was, I mean, I should but &quot;Ou es-tu mon amour?&quot; one of his songs was, and it was like finger style, and I was just going and that's kind of how I by playing that song. But to see these old you know, without all his fingers, and the skill and the dexterity. One of my favorite live who really influenced And she did this, she did a Have you ever seen this video? - No. Look up, it was in LA, it was like the Temple Talk about stripped down. She's literally, I mean, (Aretha singing) (Lex laughs) - You could do one note The pain, the soulfulness. - The spirit you feel like in her when you watch this. - That's true. Adele carries some of - Yeah. And you can take away all and just have that voice, and it's so commanding and it's so. (Lex laughs) Anyway, you watch this and you see like the arc of the people in the choir, and them starting to join in. Anyway, it's amazing. - I love watching Queen, like Freddie Mercury Queen performances like in terms of vocalists, and just like great stage presence. - That Live Aid performance is like considered one of the best of all. - I think I've watched that so many times. He's so cool. - Can we pull up that for a second? (Lex laughs) Go to that part where and they're all mimicking his arm moves. It's so cool. Radio ga ga All we hear is - Look at that. Radio ga ga - Oh man, I miss that guy. So good. - So that's an example of a person that was born to be on stage. - So good. Well, we were talking surfing, we were talking jiu-jitsu. I think live music is one of where you can really be present, where something about the anticipation of choosing what show and then waiting for the date to come. And normally it happens in you go with friends, and to sort of fall into it is incredible. - So you've been training jiu-jitsu? - (laughs) Yes, trying. - I mean, I've seen you do jiu-jitsu. You're extremely, you're You know how to use your (both laughing) Maybe there's better ways of - It's been a skill that's - (laughs) Yeah. I mean, what do you like about jiu-jitsu? - Well, first of all, I It was my daughter. I think I told you this story. At 11, she told me that she wanted to learn self-defense, and she wanted to learn which I just, as a mom, because at 11, I was not You know, I loved that she had sort of that desire and awareness. So I called some friends, actually a mutual friend of ours, and I asked around for people who I could work with in Miami, and they recommended the And you've met all three of them now. They're these remarkable human beings, and they've been so I mean, first starting with Arabella, I used to take her and then and she'd sort of pull me into it, and I started doing it with her. And then Joseph and Theo saw us doing it, they wanted to start doing it, so now they joined and then Jared joined. So now we're all doing jiu-jitsu. - Great. there's something really empowering, knowing that I have some I think it's something as humans, we've kind of gotten away from. You look at any other animal, and you know, even the giraffe, The lion, the tiger, every species, and then there's us, you and I didn't know how to protect myself. And I think that it gives and also gives you kind you know, knowing how to deescalate rather than an escalate a situation. I also think as part of the training, you develop more natural awareness when you're out and about. And I feel like especially, you know, you get on an elevator, and like the first thing people You're walking down the street, people are getting hit by cars because they're walking into traffic. I think as you start to get this training, you become much more aware of the broader context of which is really healthy and good as well. But it's been beautiful. They actually, the Valente Brothers, they have this 7-5-3 with some of the sort of And all of my kids have memorized it, and they'll talk to me about it. Theo, he's eight years old, he'll able to recite all 15. So, you know, benevolence, and fitness, and nutrition, and flow, It's an unbelievable thing. And they'll actually integrate where they'll talk about Yeah, rectitude, courage. - Benevolence, respect, So this is not about jiu-jitsu techniques or fighting techniques. This is about a way of life, about the way you interact with the world, with other people. Exercise, nutrition, that's more on the Awareness, balance, and flow. - It's the mind, the body, the soul effectively is how they break it out. And the kids can only advance and get their stripes if they give examples of each of them. And my own kids will come home from school and they'll tell me examples that weren't aligned with the 7-5-3 code. So it's a framework, much like religion is in our house and can be for others. It's a framework to discuss things that happen in their and has been beautiful. So, I do think that like is super strong in jiu-jitsu. - So there's many things I love but one of them is how and history of martial arts in general. You know, a lot of places, you'll practice the sport of it, maybe the art of it, but and what it means to be on and off the mat, that's really great. And the other thing is great is they also don't forget the actual fighting routes. It's not just a sport, it's on the street in all situations. And that gives you a confidence an awareness about your own body and awareness about others. It is, you know, sadly we forget, but it's a world full of violence or the capacity for violence, so it's good to have an awareness of that, and a confidence how to - 100%. I've seen it with all how much they've benefited from it. But that self-defense component and the philosophical Pedro will often tell and sort of soft resistance, and some of these sort of that they get exposed to that are sort of non-resistance that are beautiful, and hard concepts to but especially, you know, when you're 12, 10 and 8 respectively. So it's been an amazing - I love people like Pedro 'cause he's like finding books that are like in Japanese to try to figure out like the details of a particular history. Like he's like an ultra scholar of martial arts and I love that. I love when people give everything, every part of themselves to the thing they're practicing. You know, people have for a very long time. And I love, from the coliseum, you can't fake anything, you can't lie about anything. It's truly honest. You're there and you either win or lose, and it's simple, and that's like, it's also humbling that, the reality of that is humbling. - And oftentimes in life not that black and white. - So it's nice to have that sometimes. That's the biggest thing is getting my ass kicked, And it's nice to just get Sports in general are great for that. I think surfing probably, I can imagine, just, you know, yeah, face planting, not being able to stay on And the power of the wave is humbling. So just like your mom, Are there, your bucket list - It's a lot but- (both laughing) - Is there things that just pop to mind that you're like thinking about especially in the near future? Just anything. - Well, I hope it always is long. You know, I hope I've never like exhausted exploring all the things I always tell my kids whenever they say, you know, &quot;Mom, I'm bored.&quot; Only boring people get bored. Like, there's too much to learn. There's too much to learn. So I've got a long one. You know, I think obviously there are some like immediate tactical, you know, interesting I'm incubating a bunch of businesses. I'm investing in a bunch of companies that hopefully I'll always Some of the fun things I'm So those are all on the list of things I'm passionate and excited about continuing to explore and learn. But in terms of like the ones that are more pure sort I think I'd like to Actually, I know I would. And the only thing keeping me from doing it in the short term is I feel like it'd be to do with my kids, and I'd love to have that I also told Arabella, we were talking about that happens in Mongolia and So I'm like, I feel like that to experience together. I wanna get barreled by a wave and learn how to play &quot;Texas Flood.&quot; I wanna see the Northern lights, like, I wanna go and experience that. I feel like that would I wanna get my black belt, like you have. - Black belt. Nice. - I asked you to, how long did it take? But, so I wanna get my That's like a, that's gonna but within the next decade. Yeah, a lot of things. - You know, I'd love to go to space. Not just space, I think - Like step on the Moon. - Yeah, or float, you like that famous photo. - Yeah. Just you in a- - The spacesuit. I feel like Mars is- - A little too far. well, the Moon's like four days, feels more manageable. - I don't know. But the sunset on Mars is blue, it's the opposite color. I hear it's beautiful. Might be worth it, I don't know. - You negotiate with Theo. (laughs) - [Lex] Yeah. (laughs) Yeah, bring the whole family. - Right? - I think actually just where you can look back on Earth. I think that just to see this little- - Pale blue dot- just all the stuff that ever happened in human civilization is on that, and to be able to look And I don't think that's - I think being interplanetary, my hope is that that heightens for us how rare it is what we have, like how precious the Earth is. I hope that it has that effect because, you know, I think to interplanetary travel that kind of taps into this kind of manifest like the human desire to conquer territory and expand the footprint of civilization that sometimes feels much more rooted in like dominance and conquest And obviously I think there's, you know, maybe an existential imperative for it at some point, or a But I hope that what feels inevitable at this moment, I mean, you know Elon Musk and what he and Jeff Bezos and others. It feels like it's not an if, it's a when at this point. I hope it also underscores like the need to protect what we have here. - Yeah, and I hope it's the curiosity that drives that exploration, and I hope the exploration will give us a deeper appreciation of and that Earth will always be home and it's a home that we What gives you hope about the future of this thing we have going on? Human civilization, the whole thing. - I think I feel a lot of I feel a lot of hope when who are good, and honest, and pure, and true, and passionate, and that's not an uncommon experience. So those experiences give me hope. - Yeah, other humans, - I love humanity. We're awesome. You know, not always, but - Yeah, for the most part on the whole- - We can be. we do all right. We create some beautiful stuff, and I hope we keep creating, and I hope you keep creating. You've already done a build a lot of amazing things, and I hope you keep building and creating and doing a lot of beautiful Ivanka, thank you so - Thank you, Lex. - Thanks for listening to this conversation with Ivanka Trump. To support this podcast, please check out our And now let me leave you with some words from Marcus Aurelius. &quot;Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars and see Thank you for listening. I hope to see you next time.