Professor Steven Smith: Act 2. continue with the account of the various persons who populate, and who they are, and how they contribute to the the work as a whole. this, last time we talked about Cephalus, Cephalus, the embodiment of Athenian opinion in the way in Cephalus out of the dialogue, We never hear from him again. presumably, to pursue the appear in the rest of the book head of the household, opinion. discussion with the son of the man who first had Socrates Polemarchus is described as the the, to be sure, Polemarchus is what the Greeks Let us just say he is a person defend his family and friends. &quot;gentlemen&quot; somebody who holds or so on, but somebody who friends in the way that he does. Polemarchus shows himself needs of the body as Cephalus but Polemarchus is concerned to the polis. justice is giving to each what to mean that justice means doing your enemies. is a kind of loyalty, feel to members of a family, to fellow students of a and the kind of loyalty we feel to all other places. Polemarchus understands justice that citizens of one city or one opposition to all other places. own. Polemarchus. One's own is the just. Polemarchus on the grounds that any group, and he trips Polemarchus up familiar Socratic argument &quot;Do he asks Polemarchus. friend and enemy based on a kind on a perception of who is your Have we ever mistaken a friend The answer seems to be, We all know people who we found out that they were talking or that they were operating to another. everyone. means helping friends and &quot;when we may not even be sure really are? state, namely one's own have any of another state when, we may well be mistaken in our or friends? unreflective attachment to one's to others? Polemarchus. we see Socrates dissolving the At no other point in the I think, do we see so clearly philosophical reflectiveness on camaraderie, corps necessary for Socrates seems to dissolve loyalty and attachment that we Polemarchus, how do we really know the enemy?&quot; believe that a city can survive it is. what it stands for, what it is not, Isn't this essential for the of any city? enemies are? Socrates' disillusion of that challenges, it seems to me, political life by questioning between friend and enemy. like his father, it is notable that his argument Later in the Republic not that much later even, best city may be characterized but this will never be so for This is why even the best city, as he spends a great deal of will require a warrior class, &quot;auxiliaries.&quot; is an intrinsic part of even the Even the Platonic just city citizens who are prepared to of their own city. it seems that Polemarchus' refuted in Book I, in its own way later in the And we might want to think argument that is very important century--important twentieth- the name of Schmitt who made the called the friend and the enemy, are central to his This is an argument that comes the Republic. Polemarchus is dispatched in and this creates the in many ways most memorable and perhaps even the the exchange with Thrasymachus difficult challenge in his own speakers. because Thrasymachus could be some way, his sort of evil twin. He is the Doctor Moriarty to You know, the evil doppelganger Thrasymachus' is a rival of he also like Socrates is a He is an educator. kind of knowledge of what able to teach it to others. He is teaching a kind of, a kind of hard-headed realism Polemarchus' talk about loyalty &quot;Justice,&quot; he asserts, stronger.&quot; is based upon a distinction ruled. that is to say, benefits of the ruling class. right than what benefits the the laws of justice. of course even for us today, He is the intellectual who you might say, about human nature to light, and pretty beliefs. be the first to tell you there He is that kind of hard-boiled No matter how much we may one has to admit also there if not more than a grain of saying. is this: we are beings who are a desire for power. you might say, the real man, from the slave. truly care about. semester to Thomas Hobbes, I'll just say that for now. get to Hobbes. care about. is also true for collective states and cities. advantage against others, a condition of unremitting war In the language, of modern economics, Thrasymachus politics is a There are winners and there are wins that means the more someone And the rules of justice are winners of the game to protect interests. It didn't take Karl Marx to insight, that the rules of the ruling class. Thrasymachus, Well, how to respond? Thrasymachus with a variation of against Polemarchus. mistakes?&quot; it is not self-evident, obvious what our interests are. interests of the stronger, of knowledge, part of those in power to know their interest? very possible to make a mistake And of course, this, of course the rulers make and he tries to invent an mistake, he's not really a true The true ruler is the person interest and of course knows But the point that he admits is that Socrates needs; justice requires knowledge. And that is of course at the thesis, that all virtue is a all the virtues require their basis. Thrasymachus turns on the knowledge justice involves, knowledge. and self-interest requires knowledge is that? justice consists of the art of rules that are really in the the interests of their rulers. for Thrasymachus is a kind of obeying the rules that really we fear the consequences of Justice is really something are fearful of the consequences Again, the true ruler, is one, Thrasymachus believes, unjustly for his own interest. one who is like a shepherd with the benefit of the flock but, interests, the good of the Justice, like all knowledge, again, of self-interest. &quot;Is Thrasymachus wrong to And I realize I'm moving over but is Thrasymachus wrong to Socrates wins the argument in you might even say, Both he and Thrasymachus virtue, but Socrates says, deceive and fleece other Thrasymachus is forced to admit Thrasymachus believes, are not beneficial to him. Thrasymachus believes, others, doing whatever you like. we see a very dramatic moment whole. He blushes when he realized claim not that justice is a but that justice is something weakness. be embarrassed by his defense of of the unjust life. be making by making Thrasymachus tough talk, appears to be, to be. has been defending injustice and And so it appears, Book I ends with uncertainty We have had three views of and Thrasymachus. but no clear alternative seems Certainly Socrates has not to Thrasymachus in his exchange he has only, to see that the logic of his the logic of his argument that the stronger, and is a defense of the unjust So all of Book I is really a in the rest of the book. justice is. we have no reason to really ideas about what justice is. important figures of the their voices heard. Those are Glaucon and Glaucon tells Socrates that he refutation of Thrasymachus, Thrasymachus has been shamed, the logic of his argument takes thing as being refuted. as it turns out, ashamed to be seen defending the &quot;But why should we be ashamed Glaucon challenges Socrates. justice is wrong,&quot; Glaucon says. justice is good,&quot; or more praised for itself. Glaucon asks Socrates, choose because we delight in it 358A. delight in for its own sake? hits the road. Who is Glaucon? brothers of Plato, in this book, left about them. In the first place, and Glaucon's desire to hear indicates something about his It would be vulgar, to speak of justice, material rewards or He does not need to hear he's indifferent to the Rather, he claims that he wants that no one has ever defended it The brothers desire to hear alone, and that seems to be from mercenary motives and It reveals to us something certain kind of loftiness of And certainly the brothers, are not slouches. Although it is easy to remember of their contribution seems to no Socrates,&quot; they seem to be Their early challenges to potential philosophers. persons who might one day rule Of the two, Glaucon seems to be He is described as the most context means the most manly, and later Socrates admits that wonder at the nature of the two And at 368a, you'll remember, distinction in battle, they have been tested in war They are also, relationship between one to one another, competitive, super achievers. perhaps. jousting between them that you And each proposes to Socrates a in order to prove the value of Glaucon goes on to rehabilitate many ways, in a more vivid and a Thrasymachus did himself. you'll remember, the historian Herodotus, who possessed a magic ring that invisibility. would do if we had this power, Gyges, in Glaucon's retelling Gyges uses this ring to murder wife, and to set himself up as What would you do if you had magic ring, where you could indulge any vice, you could always get away with Why if you could do that would time, or wish to be just instead This is the challenge that Why would someone with absolute punishment, why would they &quot;Tell me that Socrates,&quot; &quot;If justice truly is something then Socrates should be able to satisfy Glaucon's retelling of that is certainly a very tall And that is where the brother, Adeimantus has a somewhat He has heard justice praised from poets and from other but for the most part, praised again for the benefits life and the next. we've heard Cephalus being others what you owe as a way of afterlife, this kind of argument to mean for the weak, if you were only concerned with A real man does not fear the Rather, Adeimantus' concern, image of what he takes justice is with an image of or self-control. would be his own god. we should not care what people but we should be prepared to self-containment, the influence that others can &quot;How can I develop those or self-control?&quot; And who has not felt that way The two brothers desire to hear Glaucon, and to live freely and Adeimantus. think, their own sense of society. them slightly anachronistically, bourgeois who feel degraded by the world they see around them. any sensitivity to greatness has another? to consider alternatives, alternatives, nurtured them. perhaps, not only potential philosophers, revolutionaries, is addressed to them and of But the speeches of Glaucon and circle around Socrates is He knows he will not be evening, and he proposes to the to the conversation a kind of will work magic on the two. &quot;to watch a city coming into Let us create a city in speech. &quot;not to view justice individual, but rather let's a magnifying glass.&quot; sense. in order to help us understand And this idea that the city is soul, that the city is like the is the central metaphor around is constructed. entirely innocuously, to it, from this idea that the city, is in the central respect like like the soul of an individual. here, and what is that metaphor, what function does it serve To state the obvious, analogy to help the brothers is for an individual soul. Adeimantus' standard of must be like the governance of respects. How is a city like a soul and self-governance, and appetites, like the governance of a Consider the following example: typically American, example, we mean that that of character and behavior that some way of the cross section of Is this a useful way to think? what does it mean to say that magnified in his or her country, the collective expression of character? is suggesting. at. One way of thinking about the together is to think of it as a hypothesis, individual character and In this reading of the causal relation, individuals we both shape and societies, term shape and determine The city and soul analogy could understand how societies and how they shape citizens who societies in which they inhabit. making sense of the city/soul seem to answer the question in individuals alike. example, does it mean that the congress and the court can every American citizen? that obviously. absurd. we could have a discussion, democracy, helps to produce a particular Just like, you might say, the old aristocratic society tended to produce a very a very different kind of Every regime will produce a and this individual will come traits of the particular regime. Republic is, regime that will produce a character, book is a utopia. in history that was so end of producing that rarest and humanity called simply So, city and soul. That leads to our next topic remainder of the class, arts. through several stages. Adeimantus is the simple city, utmost necessity. satisfaction of certain basic The primitive or simple city, again it expresses the nature there is a kind of noble subjects as bodies or creatures The simple city is little more designed for the sake of And at this point, chastising him, that it seems as if Adeimantus pigs, Are we only such that we want Is there nothing more to And Glaucon says, Where are the relishes,&quot; he &quot;Where are the things that make And hereto Glaucon's city own soul. preside over what Socrates calls one that institutionalizes all war. again, expresses the appetitive Glaucon represents the quality or thumos in Greek. psychological quality of the The entire thrust of the book spiritedness, spiritedness. soul that is most closely honors, fame and prestige. psychological quality. the desire to be first in the to dominate others. sort, do we not? embody this quality in It is the quality that we alpha personality. how to channel this wild and heart, how to channel this to Can it be done? domestication of the spirited The rest of the book is to some asking the question whether And it is here that Socrates even his most controversial of the just city. can only begin,&quot; he says, poetry and the arts.&quot; as an educator drives. The first order of business for any city, is the oversight of And his proposals for the especially Homeric poetry, departure from Greek educational Why is this so important for Ask yourself, where would you begin? something like this: that in the broadest sense of myth makers, artist, musicians, television producers, receive our earliest and most villains, These stories, earliest childhood on, meaningful sense for the rest of And the Homeric epics were of Bible was for us. communities. Priam, Hector, these would have been just as contemporaries of Plato as the Isaac, Joshua and Jesus are for Plato's critique of Homeric two-fold; political. following Spinoza, Plato's theological political The theological critique is gods as false, He presents them as beings who More importantly, be bad role models for those who they are shown to be overly fond of money, cruelty and disregard for the The Homeric heroes are ignorant anger and desire for How could such figures possibly citizens of a just city? of course, the predation of and III. their power to enchant, in the tenth book of the to which he himself has been enchantment of the poets. again, the poets, the lyricists, the mythmakers, all of them, And in place of the pedagogical Socrates proposes to install As a result, expelled from this city. Sophocles will be expelled from wants to create. that you will discuss in your Socrates' censorship of poetry his totalitarian impulses. Republic most likely to instincts. Socrates,&quot; we are inclined to read here and listen to?&quot; Socrates seems to be saying not poetry and music, poetry and music. which you would no doubt be namely what would such poetry look like? I don't know that I have an but perhaps the Republic this Socratic poetry that will But it's important to remember and the question of the reform of poetry is introduced in the passions of Glaucon and others The question of censorship and introduced, in other words, necessity, controlling the city, Nothing is said here about the artisans, merchants, Maybe, to speak bluntly, much about them. Nor has anything really been education of the philosopher. creation of a tight, young warriors who will protect protect their own home. recalling Polemarchus, and bark and growl at strangers. subordinate their own desires and live a life by a strict We have to ask: unrealistic? Or are they desirable? believe as he does that even the provisions for war, a soldier's life, terms of material rewards and willingness to sacrifice for It would seem far from being what we might call maybe a kind Far more unrealistic would be and I'm thinking here of names from the eighteenth and that one day we can abolish war abolish the passions that give So far Plato believes, aspect of nature remains strong educate the warriors of society So on that I'm going to end about justice, discovery of America.