[Music] Tawny owls Bomber and Luna, have just welcomed hatch. See how this experienced pair care danger. As they grow from tiny hatchlings nest. It's the 6th of April and hatched. It's mother Luna arrives, and carefully tucks feathers. This is a huge moment for Luna, hatch. Thankfully, her loss had a silver chicks. But now I'm delighted she The chicks use so much energy breaking out chick to care for, Luna will rarely leave the in food for the [Music] family. Only an hour rat. The pair call to one [Music] catch. The chick calls out to and Bomber stops to listen. But Luna soon sends him off, to meeting with his chick will have to wait. mouthfuls and takes the first for herself. for her chick. She moves the rat into the the hatchling and it's extraordinary to A rat like this one should last a chances. She calls out for more food [Music] and Bomber's not resting on his laurels. an even larger [Music] rat, saving as caching and tawny owls have been items. This way the family hungry. Over the following days Lunar and Bomber Luna broods the owlet to keep it warm, for it. And Bomber is doing a great job, [Music] dawn. But this isn't his only role, when he's not trees. So when jackdaws arrive at the nest, he's around to protect his family. Bomber's at least 10 years fit. He's such a dedicated partner. With such caring parents, the first owlet is hatched the others should soon follow. The eggs were laid about 65 hours apart and hatch at similar intervals. So I'm keeping a hatching. But when the second and third won't [Music] hatch. Luna's only hope for another egg. [Music] Five days after the first shuffle. She looks beneath her feathers and soon reveals another chick. As she her. [Music] It's just a brief glimpse, before Luna's young, But that night when Luna leaves chicks. It's clear to see the The unhatched eggs will remain in the nest now, as long, and looks so proud that she settles after, delivering the new hatchling a pair of frogs legs, but the chicks treat. And as bomber sets [Music] feeding. It's now nearly a week since the first But Bomber still hasn't had a chance to meet his chicks is Luna's role. And she's so protective. [Applause] nest, and Luna heads out to investigate. Leaving the chicks alone alone, Bomber takes his chance. The owlet call out as he heads them. Luna could be back at any moment, [Music] chicks. [Music] He listens carefully for Luna's return, act. A pheasant alarm calls outside, go. Bomber calls out to his mate as he leaves, and Luna swiftly [Music] her feathers and shuffling warm. Day by day the chicks are becoming more and Nova. But we won't know if they're have families of their own. Eldest chick [Music] active. As Luna takes a break at the Nova. Luna is soon back in preening both mobile, starting to stand and showing off pin 2 weeks old Rocket's eyes are open and it first [Music] time. Rocket is soon confident surroundings, and as it reaches 16 flap. Later on younger chick Nova to and when Rocket stands and stretches [Music] owlets. [Music] It's now late April, well. Rocket is 5 days older bigger. Nova is developing well to, [Music] Nova is standing [Music] to, but it needs to watch out Now the chicks are older, Luna periods. They're big enough to and Rocket never wastes a chance for more [Music] flapping. Luna's soon back with a hammer. Both chicks have a healthy appetite, as Luna whole. The end of April brings seasonal more [Music] adventurous. Rocket time, while Luna guards the entrance. But yet. They're getting more energetic too, hopping Youngest chick Nova, shows off his nest floor and nearly burying the weeks old, they've both grown so much. to leave the nest, but before that, there's family. So I've had a new arrival brought that. So this owlet was found in Elvington and away. Unfortunately, it sibling didn't survive, but this one Solar. So this little guy's ready to And that's with Luna, female tawny owl who last hers. So I'm sure this little guy will be fine it's ready to go in the nest look at that, a mouse in a nest, we're going to fit it with an ID Alright then Jean, we've got to tawny. Jean's a bird ringer, licensed by the British which leg are we putting it on. We're going right carefully fits a lightweight metal ring, perfectly hurt the chick in any way, each ring has a unique can be identified in the future. Well she made a And none of them were hers, were they? It was just weigh then. I think we out to weigh them, don't you. yeah, he's got he's got a big fat tummy. If know they're doing alright don't you. This information understand tawny owls [Music] better. So has he got a yeah. When this owlet was found, it had its one of its own kind before. So it's going to be some new new foster siblings. So that's the Beech Stump now and get the other two and well. I've checked the cameras and Luna nearby. So that's a ladder set, but to take some precautions. Because these are actually attack, sometimes. So I'll pop [Music] eyes. Have you got them, yeah these two are a alright. Uh but they'll be out soon, these Rocket. Rocket, yeah, well Rocket you're a one's 26 days old, is he yeah, oh so this really. Get off! There we go 410, 410 yeah this at this age, can you? No, no sometimes you know lighter, but that's age as well, isn't it? Three of difference. Right next one, so this is the nice. Yeah right, let's get a ring on this puff. There we go, it's nice tight joint. Right let's get a weigh in should we. There we go, we don't want your Mum to be missing you too much, do we. Right, so we'll see what these is obviously Nova, we've just put a ring apart. And now it's time to introduce Solar. There we go noisy little one, treatment, because it's much younger and them, all three together. There you have you. Right we just got to hope, that these three introducing a different owl into another clutch. ringing complete, it's time to get them possible. [Music] We look good now. [Music] So that's the whole an hour, I'm just got to hope these guys get on now. [Music] Throughout the process, Luna watch. And it's no time before she's back, foster [Music] chick. As she enters the nest, vole she has cached and getting to work, feeding all abilities, so Luna seems to have no idea she's immediately. I'll be keeping a close eye on them, on. In the next film watch as Rocket, Nova and wing. I follow their lives outside on more rescued owlets. Make sure thing. Thank you for watching and I hope you and subscribe to see more. Here's a taste of