- Trader Joe's: the great equalizer. It kept me alive back when I was broke and continues to be a shining example of how capitalism can work. (crew laughs) Here before me is one of each of their frozen pasta entrees, 25 all told. How much did all this cost? $107 after tax. That's insane. That's $4 a bag on average, and some of these are 2.29, 2.99. So now, I'm going to prepare and taste every single one of these rank them from 1 to 10, and hopefully not die in the process. Let's get started. First up, linguini with Feels a little waterlogged, but let's see what my That's good. That's quite good. It tastes like jarred pesto, which is kind of nostalgic for me, so I'm not too mad at it. Tomatoes taste really fresh. They're like bright and acidic. They almost taste like really quick in the pan. The pasta is not mushy. It's got a little bit Definitely not as good as something you might Good enough where even though I have a lot more pasta to eat, I still wanna keep eating it. I think that gets it a really solid seven. I almost wanna say eight, but that feels a little bit too excitable. (air whooshes) This was my frozen pasta of choice from Trader Joe's in my youth. Mm. Oh man. That's so good. That's so good. The gnocchi are a little bit chewy, dense, and thick and gloopy, but I like that. You know what I will say about it is that it's super one note. It needs, like, an acid or an My nostalgia's definitely driving, guiding my hand right now. I can find very little wrong with it. It's so thick and gloopy, (air whooshes) They really know what All right, so mostly because and I kept eating them, I think I need to adjust I think that I'm a because I think that eight is far too great a score for this. Eight is, like, really and this is just quite good. It's just good. I really like it. So, I think we have to I need to be more of an adult and knock things down a little bit. So, I'm gonna bring these down one point. No more revisionist history after this. I'm calibrated. Now we have Reduced Guilt mac and cheese, and from the size of the portion, looks like it's reduced everything. Let's see how it tastes. Yeah, I mean it tastes like I feel less guilty. I also feel less joy. This is mac and cheese By this being reduced guilt, are you saying that your are full guilt? Should I feel guilty for eating them? Am I guilty of eating them? No trial? No jury? Is that America? Yes. Taking into consideration it is lower fat, lower calories, I would give it more, but like, just objectively it is a four. Diner mac and cheese not looking so great. What is going on here? What is that? What is happening there? But we're supposed to give it a stir. Let's give it a stir, see where we end up. Good stretchiness. Good stretch factor. Dig that. Like that. Enjoying that. Sounds like oral sex, It's good. It tastes more natural and more homemade than, like, a Stouffer's mac and cheese. It's got a great, like, stretch factor. Like, as I stir it around, which I love. Little bit grainy. The sauce I don't know. It's just serviceable. It's just a workhorse of mac and cheese, (air whooshes) A solid six. French onion mac and cheese. What I would call a serious innovation. Hot. Oh. You know when the, ugh, you know when, ugh. Like, ugh. Phew. That's hot. The sauce has a most unfortunate and the pasta's softest yet of the day. It's just hyper overcooked. Flavor's okay and the so it knocks it down to a three. I'm really not a fan. Gluten-free mac and cheese. As I'm stirring it, it is breaking apart. I mean, it is gluten-free there's not gluten to hold it together. You know, that makes sense. Yeah, the noodles taste like the sum total of the starches that went in to make them. I've had good gluten-free pasta before, so I'm not gonna make excuses like, &quot;Oh, okay, it doesn't have gluten.&quot; I've had really good gluten-free pastas, so there's no excuse. The way I've been talking I think this gets a three. I really don't wanna eat any more of it. I'll say one thing about Trader This is the uncured pepperoni Oh, it is stringing good and plenty. All I taste is pepperoni, even in a non-pepperoni bite. The pepperoni is just the dominant flavor. But you're not gonna hear And then just the sauce is good. It's not grainy. It's good and gooey. I like it. There's even a little tiny I'm just catching just a little something. Like, a little ooh. Very, very easy. Very breezy. Just seven minutes in heaven. (air whooshes) (air whooshes) which I'd be stunned if it 'cause it smells Very soft. Pasta's falling apart. It's definitely got that, like, chemical truffle oil vibe to it. What do you put in pool? Pasta's really soft. The flavor's really one note. I don't wanna keep eating it, which I think puts it right at a four. Next up, the ricotta and spinach ravioli with tomato basil sauce. Oh, okay. The thing that immediately Like, economy international. Oh, there's something so The spinach is, like, overpowering, like, which I never, that's mostly what I'm tasting is spinach. I don't taste basil at all. The tomatoes taste weird. It just tastes weird. This is a three. I don't want any more of that inside me. (air whooshes) one of my all-time a favorite dishes. It looks as advertised. That, mm. This almost tastes like a There's very little cheese flavor to it. Just boring. This should be easy. This should be something so it's gonna get a four. (air whooshes) which I'm gonna let you this is not pasta and I fully do not understand It's also a sickly green. Baby puke split pea green, but whatever. Ew! Aftertaste is gross. I All of it tastes like aspa, this tastes like asparagus. The color is really off-putting, and maybe most importantly, so (laughs) it's gonna be a one. Kendall got two - All of them that they had. Every risotto that they had. You know, for a pasta episode. (bag crinkles) - [Kendall] Oh. - You know, we need to (Kendall and Andrew laugh) Oh, okay. (laughs) (air whooshes) Who would've ever thought that man would live to see the day. It says to cook it with I'd probably do that, but we would just wanna It's very mild. The gnocchi texture is much more like traditionally unlike the gnocchi gorgonzola, which is super dense, These are tender without being too mushy. Like, they do have a little The stuffed middle, while is not doing much on its own, and any sauce you put this in, it would completely overpower. Flavor-wise, texture-wise, but it's just so fun that (air whooshes) I complained about them a lot for a seven, but yeah, there it is. They're a seven. Penne arrabbiata, which Oh. Mm. That's the best cooked pasta of the day. Super al dente. Exactly the way I like it. Would I eat an entire It's not bad. It's just boring. I cannot award it any higher than a six. It's just fine. It's just fine. What we have here is hatch It looks like the sauce It's really stretchy. It's I can smell the chiles, so we're off to a really good start. And I like the sauce, but I never thought I'd say this. It's too chile-y. Like, that's really all I It's got that canned hatch (sighs) It's not as (laughs) You know? Does that count for anything? It's got some drawbacks, but for the most part, texture's good, flavor's good. I think this deserves a seven. It is just doing its Next up, we have meat Family style meat lasagna. Meat lasagna? What kind? Don't worry about it. Stop Makes you ugly. Let's try this out. Let's see I mean, very few complaints. Oh, there's ricotta. Goddammit! Ooh, I hate ricotta in a lasagna! For a ricotta lasagna, it's not bad. It's crumbly for sure, but it's not dry, which is really the death I wanna be generous and give it a six, but I just don't see how it deserves it. I just don't. That's a five. That's a five. I'm not deriving pleasure I'm just eating it and it's good. (air whooshes) This looks fan (beep) Very different gnocchi here. They're bigger, they're not rigged, and the sauce, like, it looks crazy. Like, it's very hard to make a sauce, a cacio e pepe sauce so. (laughs) This is still real life, That's fabulous. This is just, like, really super proficiently-made gnocchi. It's tender, but it's slightly toothsome. I would take it a little but it's, like, objectively good, and the sauce is fantastic. It's thick, it's creamy, and it tastes distinctly That's it, and that's exactly I might not have thought but I certainly wouldn't have thought that it came out of a bag frozen. It's very impressive. This is going to garner Hats off. These are cheese-filled fiocchetti. Nicely cooked. So, okay. I'm not getting any of It's like cream with a So, it's basically just pasta but, like, very boring. There's nothing bad about it. There's nothing, like, &quot;Ew, ew, ew!&quot; It's just boring. It's a six. It's better than (air whooshes) These are Roman-style gnocchi, which are a big old goddamn thing. Nico correctly pointed It's like, is this pasta? Hmm? Very tender. Hmm. Oh my god, it's so good. (laughs) It's so good. Oh man! It's got a really great texture. It's tender, but it's really toothsome. Like, you feel your teeth sink into it without it being bouncy, or It just tastes of cream The nutmeg. I'm such a nutmeg whore! (plate clinks) (teeth patter) (plate clinks) Nine. It's a nine. It just blew away my expectations of what a frozen pasta The flavors were all The look isn't there. That's literally why If it looked dope, then we'd be having a different It's a nine. Wow. (air whooshes) Sauce looks thick and creamy. It doesn't look eggy at all. Like, it looks white. - [Kendall] Oh no. Did you miss? - In every imaginable direction. The pancetta tastes gross. It's really funky, but not in a cured way. I don't know. It tastes like old pork. Like, it tastes like, you know, if this were in the fridge I'd be like, &quot;Oh, nope. Shouldn't eat that.&quot; The sauce is pretty tasty. Spaghetti is stunningly not overcooked. Man, I would be dodging those (air whooshes) Ugh, I'm inclined to give It's the first unappetizing where it's like, &quot;Ugh.&quot; This is just titled Garlicky Pasta. That is its name. That is its objective. The spaghetti is, like, square in nature. It looks, like, more like a ramen noodle or something like that. This feels like a repurposed noodle. And even though I don't see on the photo, there are Very interesting. - [Nico] I think I have an explanation. - Definitely not spaghetti. That's some kind of Nico has informed me of a San Franciscan fusion dish where the spaghetti is either cooked in or has alkaline added to it, alkali added to it to give and they've succeeded in that. It's very ramen-like. There's nothing about I'm not offended by that, I don't care, but why'd you do it? You know what the only is that it reminds me of something I would've thrown together Like, I would be like, &quot;You know, soy sauce and garlic and This is so weird. I'm having - Go with your gut. My gut said seven, but My gut then says six. - [Nico] And then what does it say? - Ooh, just (beep) quit The pasta texture is awesome. The sauce flavor is good. That's all there is to it. It's those two things, Seven. (air whooshes) We got ourselves sweet potato gnocchi in butter sage sauce. They've really got their sauce game down to a saucience, which is sauce science. Mm. Tiny bit too soft, but still good. Tastes of butter, cheese, and sage, and then it's on sweet potato gnocchi that have a decent texture. This is good. This belongs in the realm of the sevens. Surprisingly good. Very different. Seven. (air whooshes) or gnocchi of Sorrento. Why do we call it Sorrento Why are cities called other That doesn't make sense! Mm. Mm. Ah. This is the exact same gnocchi so I like it, but it's super bouncy and springy. I like it. I like it. And it's in a tomato and mozzarella sauce, which on paper sounds like, &quot;Huh?&quot; but it totally works. Like, look at it. It's lighter orangy color I hope. Do I like the sauce better than I like the gorgonzola sauce? Yes. That, whatever that was, which is, it's a kind of a yes. What did I rate the gnocchi gorgonzola? - Seven. I can't give it an eight. I can't do it. It's a seven. It's a seven. Slightly better. I will say slightly better, but that doesn't buy you an eight, 'kay? (air whooshes) which means rigatoni of the peasant, and it's rigatoni with I don't know when asparagus and broccoli became peasant things! In a cheese sauce? In a creamy sauce. I can't tell if it's boring The asparagus is the only I like the nutmeg, but the sauce just literally just tastes like milk pretty much. The pasta's cooked really well. It's just so, so, so boring that it makes me militant. (water sploshes) - So sorry. I'm so thirsty! - Kendall's over there doing our piss ADR. (Kendall laughs) (Andrew claps) - What's the number, Andrew? I don't know. It's like I'm taste-blind and sense-blind. - [Kendall] Would it help by doing a countdown? - [Crew] Five, four, three, two, one. It's a five. That's a five. - [Kendall] Wow. - Spaghetti cacio e pepe. We've already seen that of making an incredible cacio e pepe sauce right outta the bag, so I'm hoping this'll be no exception. It's remarkable. It's somehow better than in that it's spicier. Like, I have the feeling of heat. There's more pepper in this. And the cheese is even more pronounced. And even though I just overcooked this, it's perfectly al dente. If anything, I would say overcook this, because, like, it's perfect. It's indistinguishable from and it's better than the gnocchi. Spicier. There's more pepper. It's exactly what I want in cacio e pepe. The sauce is spicy. It's creamy. Really cheese, pecorino romano forward. I love it. I love it. I'm trying to find any difference between this and a It's stunning. It's a 10. (Kendall gasps) It's a 10. It's a perfect cacio e pepe. (air whooshes) The top three. Spaghetti cacio e pepe, gnocchi alla romana, and cacio e pepe gnocchi. Apparently I like cacio and I'm very, very impressed a really, really, really And also these gnocchi alla romana, they were so well seasoned. The nutmeg was beautiful, and the texture was just mwah! And they're fittingly, and a first-ever 10! I have never given a 10 in my entire four episodes of doing this, and fittingly so, because I could not find It was perfectly cooked, The sauce was super creamy and gooey. The pepper was spicy, It was dead on perfect, except for the fact that I'm now seeing that there were apparently Thank you so much for joining us, and let me know whatever stuff Just say whatever you want. Just say anything. (laughs) Just type. Just elbows on your keyboard and hit enter and call it a day. Thank you. (proud music)