(dramatic music) - There's this house in this that actually isn't a house. It's hard to see, because but if you look at it from above, you'll see that it's actually Kind of looks like a warehouse. It has dozens of air conditioning units and it's just sitting here among a sea of ordinary suburban homes. All of this is just a facade that is a landing station for AT&amp;T, the place where these that connect the world, (suspenseful music) We now know for certain spies on those cables with the And according to a they process all the somewhere in New Jersey in Lining up these maps points to this secretive disguised building for where this surveillance But there's a lot more around the country. Thanks to leaked NSA documents and some thorough investigative reporting, we now know some of their locations. Like the fake house in New Jersey, these other cable spy facilities blend in as benign, nondescript buildings avoiding any undue attention along the streets of New York These few hundred cables contain an unfathomable amount of data, all of our communication, and it would seem impossible would be able to spy on it all, impossible, that is, if that they do. So let me tell you the story of the cables that connect our planet and show you that if you can watch the world and they have, and they've been doing it for a long time. - [Reporter 1] 320 - [Reporter 2] What is a total revolution of the whole concept of war. exploit it all. (TV static) - Now is the moment where I of today's video. I'm very grateful for sponsors. I wouldn't be able to do this job and make independent journalism So thank you Incogni for Incogni is actually quite because Incogni is We live in a world where there's an entire secretive industry dedicated to collecting and no, this isn't the NSA spying on you. This is for-profit in any way they can, so they can sell that to other companies who who can into your phone, who I find this incredibly that my personal information on an open market. Luckily, we have rights The problem is the process is very complicated and Incogni is a service You sign up for Incogni and to go out into the world on your behalf and take you off as The first thing they do, is they scan to see all of and they show it to you on so you can see, oh my God, I'm on dozens if not hundreds And then they start the process of getting your email and your off these lists. It's a process and Incogni on the progress. They even have a tally of all of the lists that you've been removed from, which is insanely satisfying Because of Incogni, I there's this other massive problem, which are these people search sites where you can search for as much information as I don't like that. Incogni sniffed this out for me and is taking me off of these lists. Thank you, Incogni, I'm So there's a link in my description. It's incogni.com/Johnny sign up for Incogni and and get a full refund if totally risk-free. I'm really grateful to Incogni for sponsoring our but I'm also grateful that they exist, because I am so tired and my mailbox being full of garbage. Okay, with that we're about the government version (videotape clicks) We laid the first copper cable across the Atlantic Ocean in 1858. It connected Ireland to Canada. They sent the first and it took 18 hours to arrive, which was like light-speed back then. The cable broke three weeks it was a huge success, a revolution for a world being more and more connected. - [Narrator] Through a single cable, only an inch and a quarter thick, which lies on the ocean bed. - [Johnny] The planet would be linked up by many more of these cables draped along the ocean floor, allowing us to call and eventually allowing through webpages hosted - An online network called internet. - Today, there are 1.4 million linking us all up and they like the fastest cables can transfer 224 terabytes per second, and the amount of data being every two to three years. Unsurprisingly, there's a whole industry dedicated to just laying down these cables and then monitoring when they break. Sometimes they get broken by or natural disasters. Sometimes they even get broken by sharks, though that's pretty rare, but sometimes these cables There's this island right but it technically belongs to Taiwan, the country that China has into their own. Needless to say, there's and in the last five years, the cables of this little island have accidentally been broken 27 times, which is a lot for cables. China denies that they had any They say it's just an unfortunate fishing or anchor incident, but I'm suspicious. - [Reporter 3] Officials fear and that internet connections could be under threat. - Sometimes it's unclear Like a few years ago a two and a half mile piece of this cable that connects Norway to Other times it's very clear Like when the United States in the nineties and so that he couldn't communicate. I mean, cutting the communication is an old strategy. They were doing that way back but the more interesting approach There's another way to your advantage if you are a great power trying to control things. (electronic music) If you have access to submarine cables, which governments and militaries do, you can scrape through the You can splice in another cable and you can duplicate the signal and hear everything your enemy is saying. (people speaking in foreign language) The British Navy did this out here in the middle of the The Germans suspected that so they sent all their but the British had and they were able to decrypt all of this and discover a lot of Germany's secrets, and they discovered this to ally with Mexico and This is one reason why the and it all happened because (uptempo beat music) World War II took cable A more connected world for vital military So the U.S. created a new agency where they would tap in and monitor hundreds of thousands of civilian flowing through both the mail, but also through these submarine cables. I mean, think about it, It was global war, it so mass surveillance on in the name of national security. - [Reporter 4] Even the insides for hidden writing by these sensors. - This agency was shut but the seeds of mass (techno music) A few years later, President Harry Truman creates the National Security Agency or NSA. Their job was to secretly happening in the country, communication that was not meant for them, spying on communication of all kinds, all in the name of national security. By the time the United are locked in a Cold War, spying even more of a priority and once again, underwater The Americans built this which had a secret space set and a giant computer. They called this space the bat cave. Of course, they did, a on a submarine and they've like, &quot;We're in the bat cave.&quot; I can totally see it. This submarine called the USS Halibut had a little mini-submarine-looking thing that was actually not a mini-submarine, but rather a pressurized that divers would just It was pressurized to so that these divers could and be 400 feet under the surface and their bodies were They used this to secretly The one we know about happened of Eastern Russia. The divers would leave their They would navigate this big, clunky electric listening device onto the cable. It's basically a giant 20' recorder that would tap into the cable and record everything passing through. They somehow parsed through the specific phone calls but of course, this is the analog days, so the storage on this so they had to go back with every few months to replace the tape. They did this for 10 years. This was called Operation Ivy Bells, and we talked about it a little we did on submarines. But boy, it just never how resource-intensive this operation was. (water bubbles) Anyway, through this the Americans learned just by the buildup of nuclear weapons. This helped them negotiate a slowdown in the nuclear arms race the end of the Cold War By the early nineties, - [President Clinton] the dawning of a new millennium. - But then came a world changing attack into the ultraconnected internet age. - This new law that I signed today will allow surveillance used by terrorists, including emails, the internet, and cell phones. This government will enforce this law with all the urgency of a nation at war. It is now my honor to sign into law the USA Patriot Act of 2001. (audience applauds) - In 2006, a leaked document revealed that in a nondescript building in San Francisco behind this random the NSA had set up this that tapped into the fiber optic cables that traversed the The phone company AT&amp;T had the traffic that was moving This seemed kind of nuts that where all of our but we had no idea what was coming. In 2013, Edward Snowden, an NSA contractor unleashed in American history. - This is the greatest hemorrhaging of a legitimate American secrets in the history of the Republic. - And that is what we I mean, there's a lot more documents, but we sifted through that show us that it wasn't just one cable in San Francisco being tapped. The NSA was targeting every single cable that touched the United States, a huge amount of global traffic, email, text messages, phone calls. They had cooperation from all these telecommunication Microsoft, Yahoo, Google, The hell is PalTalk? Who knows, but the NSA YouTube, Skype, AOL, and their goal in all of this, well, according to one of these slides, the goal was to sniff it all, process it all, exploit In other words, according to master the internet. There's this one spreadsheet in all of these leaked here it is. This is a list, a spreadsheet that the NSA had access to, we literally know which ones. I mean, we have the data We could literally map all of these from the southern cross cable that connects California to Australia, to the Apollo cable that to the tiny cables that to the British Virgin Islands. All in all, by 2009, the NSA had stuck a probe in all around the globe. Oh, and they didn't do it alone. The NSA partnered with the OG masters of - Since the 1940s, GCHQ and have had a relationship - Okay, so there's a U.S. law allows the NSA to track anyone outside of the United States, but there are restrictions when it comes to tracking So to get around that, they turn to their British So over the course of a couple the NSA is paying 100 million to gain access to all of this data, this data that they call hundreds of thousands of names, 194 million messages collected per day. And unlike the NSA, the British could actually but the point is they were - If information arrives in it's governed by our laws. The system works as intended. (suspenseful music) - Okay, okay, yeah, it's a lot of data, but what can you do with worth of data? That's way too much for any and this is where it We've got this slide, which by the way, I know that we're dealing with but they all have clip-art Windows 95-looking (jazzy drum music) This slide, this complicated, with this flow chart is with all of this data, but So the NSA gets all of this data of all of our communication, either from cables or They funnel it through this central processing This is presumably a lot of this data and The NSA says that their job is or other people who want to And to do this, they use to make links between suspected terrorists and their immediate network, the people they talk to, where they are. They say they only hold and they throw out everything else. We don't know if that's true, And then once it's all it goes into a little searchable which is a very clunky name, but hey, great graphic design once again. This is basically like that catalogs all of the metadata that has been assigned to all of this call message and makes it searchable. So you could pull up a and you could find everything who they talk to, where they or in their words, anything It's all searchable on This allows them to do searches like let's look for an Arabic font, Google query coming out of and boom, they're linked in. It's all right here in Because of the globally connected world, the NSA now has access to this person. They can see what They can see where they are right now, assuming they have their phone, all searchable in this accessible to agencies and all over the world. The whole assumption here is that in order to find your target, the you need to access all of the information, this turns metadata into a - We kill people based on metadata, but that's not what we (suspenseful music) - This revelation, all of these documents, this whole Snowden drama was a big deal for a lot of reasons. One of the things it did is it made the location of Most of the cables were going but after this leak, countries started to look that bypassed the United States, like this one that connects and then goes on to Asia. So over the last decade since these leaks, the U.S. has become less of cable connection, and you guessed it, there's another player in town who wants access to cables, China. (suspenseful music) China is rapidly building out their worldwide network of cables, and they're doing this through Chinese state-owned companies like Huawei. And this is adding yet another front in this emerging Cold War that want to lead the global system. It turns out that controlling is a requirement for global But unlike the U.S. who and civil liberties, but China doesn't even pretend. China has built a society and control of information. Like here's actual footage of of its population through through cataloging every face, every car. Information is power in this day and age, and just a couple years ago, the U.S. formed a new special and regulation officials. It's a group called Team Telecom, and their job is to assess any and make sure that they aren't going to threaten or weaken U.S. interests. For example, there was this one cable that was supposed to It was being built by Google and Facebook, and they were into the project, hundreds of millions of and this Team Telecoms We can't have our fiber optic cables going too close to China This is making the map look really weird. You used to only have to have one major set of cables but now you're starting to see duplicates. The Chinese lines and the American lines, each building out their own network, not connecting to each other. It's like the perfect that is rising between The bifurcated world China is connecting these laying down cables. And these islanders are even if it comes from China The continent of Africa, the U.S. and China are both The country's caught in the middle of this understand what's going on. Two, aspiring hegemons vying for power, each involved in spying in their own way, but I guess it's worth it, it means connection to the world. Russia is even trying to get in on this with their aptly named And even though the old in the middle of the ocean is kind of outdated now, there's some evidence that They've got this one It's a surface ship that to be a spy vessel, and it's been spotted on the surface above where we know submarine or near Syria. Some think that they're like the old days, maybe using one of these mini-submarines. But even if they're not tapping into them, they're very presence above They could cut this cable at any moment. The U.S. who is very good at submarines has its own spy vessels, the most secretive one and we have no idea what it's up to. Security experts speculate that it's probably tapping somewhere at the bottom of the ocean. But a lot of people in &quot;No, that's so old days, why bother?&quot; It's so much easier to You get way more data go to the bottom of the ocean. Meanwhile, the private companies have started to up their own defenses. They're taking all including sending out that just spend their time tracing along the bottom of the ocean, babysitting these cables and making sure that there's no damage So I feel like I'm a bunch on the channel lately, which is we are entering a A globalized world is hyperconnected, but suddenly and unexpectedly, we're seeing a new set of divisions, countries not trusting each other anymore. Nations wanting to create both economically, militarily, but also with the A chapter where countries now especially great powers, great powers that are building so that they can communicate not trusting the other half of the world to handle their data. We see Navies with secret a $1 billion a piece, and then we see everyone And in the end, most of connection with friends around the world and a feeling that we're safe. (suspenseful music) All right, thanks for Just a little nugget here. We did this video, because we did the deep dive on submarines a few months ago. I don't know if anyone saw that, but it was in that reporting the spying element of all of this. And I remember I asked all of you, do you want me to do this video? And you all said, yes. I got like so many comments And so, we did it. And that is one thing I love about YouTube and being an independent is that I get to just ask you, I'm talking to you and be like, &quot;Hey, do you want this?&quot; And you're like, &quot;Yes.&quot; And I go, &quot;Okay,&quot; and I make it. And there's no corporate what we make. We make what you guys wanna see. So as always, you can pitch us ideas and we will hear them. For those who want to support more intimate community, we have a Patreon called the Newsroom. The Newsroom is a place what we do here, but you also including an extra behind where you get to see all of and the shenanigans that We have a big team and if you are a member of the newsroom. You get access to my scripts, you get access to Tom Fox music. But really you get access that you're supporting a YouTube channel that is trying to make rigorous journalism in a time where facts and So if that floats your boat, We also have luts and presets, which are like the thing and our photos. You could buy those and they We have a poster that I designed. I'm super into map projections, all the different ways and I made a beautiful poster that has it. If you have that poster, I think a lot of you have we actually sold out and so they should be in there. Don't quote me on that because But anyway, if you have that I wanna see what it looks I looked at it on a screen for months and now I have some here, but I don't know what it so share it with me. I think that's it. Anyway, that's all I've got. Thank you all for being here, and I'll see you in the - [Narrator] Although the will be from many the cable itself speaks that is the language of between the men and women of and the United States who conceived and brought to completion the cable to the continent.