We live in the wrong kind of world to be described prize for string theory. I can tell you with world that we live in. So we need to start over. one of the founding fathers of string theory University, makes a stunning admission. String what to do. They're scared. They might not unify physics has instead generated 10 to the 500 Some theorists maintain that each mathematical a legion of multiverses. However, the extensive for instance, KKLT vacua stabilization that the multitude of universes is senseless. I explore unification in physics and philosophy the University of Toronto. Today, it's a special in rare, candid form, revealing his unconfined be on the lookout for ideas which are not the not immediately dismiss them. We also talk about why quantum entanglement is equivalent to universe, why we lack a quantum description of de even discouraged, to tackle these fundamental to the Theories of Everything podcast. It's and I'm glad to be able to get this opportunity. most excited about in physics today? Leonard excited about a different thing almost every day. in particular? You said that you have some working on? Leonard Susskind Well, I've been understand the quantum mechanics of cosmological it's called de Sitter space, and we live in than some evidence, a lot of evidence, that it's What is de Sitter space? It's an exponentially energy, and we don't understand the quantum been thinking about that on and off, on and off, five years. Aaron Powell So what are some of the because it's primarily anti-de Sitter space? with the so-called holographic principle, that so to speak, on the boundary of the space-time. I'm sitting in a room now, the room is filled with the ordinary description of that stuff is that particles in the room, you describe them in an that the correct, precise description is in terms and that's a little bit unusual, a little strange. accepted, while it was the 't Hooft and myself widely accepted principle now, that there are of the space to describe everything in that region a boundary, and that boundary is very, very holographic description takes place. We don't We live in something called de Sitter space. Now, anti-de Sitter space are almost the exact opposite So, we live in the wrong kind of world to be We have to start over again. We have to start because de Sitter space does not have a boundary. again, and there's not a lot of people thinking is it that not plenty of people are thinking technical reasons in de Sitter space-time, the and so holography is more difficult to formulate, is space-like at spatial infinity. In anti-de space. There is no boundary to space in de Sitter there's a kind of boundary to time, but that's principle envisions. So we need to start over. the world, you would, to the furthest distances of boundary. It's the horizon of your space. anti-de Sitter space has. So you're asking me to just say that the world we live in is not the kind the mathematics of anti-de Sitter space is about. of space is a horizon, not a boundary in the same I think, just too hard for me to explain. So would extremely special cases? No, in no case. In the the boundary is a boundary of space, it most means conformal field theory, and that's exactly the right thing for anti-de Sitter space, and we space. So I've been experimenting around for to argue that it describes some kind of Sitter but the bottom line is we know very, very little asked. Why isn't everybody thinking about it? When I ask young people, they say it's too hard. Anything that you manage to say about it will because almost everything has been said by Just get into it. And they say, no, they're job. They might not be able to make any progress. they will get a job, but it's not the criteria for You should work on it because you're curious. the real world. And not, in my view, be afraid of of passion or curiosity, string theory's been passion evolved? Since 1969. How has my passion not a psychologist. Ask me a physics question. podcast with Krauss? He said, describing string It fails when you don't make it supersymmetric. slew of features that are different from the real certainty that string theory with a capital S is And I think he said, I can tell you this with 100% very precise mathematical structure called that mathematicians have won Fields Medals for very precise mathematical structure. It exists, which the real world doesn't. As you said, mathematical features that make it solvable And we know for certain that the world that we call the very precise theory string theory with a new territory which is not so very supersymmetric? string theory which is not supersymmetric. People breaking supersymmetry, blah, blah, blah, but Maybe there exists a slightly expanded version which is not supersymmetric, but we don't string theory with a capital S, the precise mathematicians win prizes for. No, incidentally, theory. I can tell you with absolute certainty So what do we make out of that? I don't know. We it a little bit. And in fact, I can say a no precise known version of it, exists in de we have a lot of work to do, and it takes not only it takes some courage to move into areas which are trying to unravel it, but that's where we have look, I'm 84 years old. I'm not the one who's will do it. And at the moment, I actually don't Who are working on a generalization of string which is not dependent. On these very special but they're just very special mathematical easy to solve. Again, we don't live in that world, striving to try to expand the theory into either or just more generally into an expanded version past. They worked on something called spontaneous it means. It just means the theory wouldn't be not a criticism of them. I worked on it, and I it's a fact that there is no precise theory which sense. It can't stay that way. We have to describe I don't know anybody who's actually working on world's theoretical physicists, anybody working on find some yeses, probably mostly among older The difficulty here comes from the elusive question was infamously posed by researchers at Susskind's response frames string theory critics argue that quantum gravity is just quantum mechanics with gravity. Furthermore, gravity theory, not the example. There's for instance. At what point does redefining a S to little s become an example of wanting to to claim success despite what even people in the see the talk by Edward Frenkel. Critics liken my flying car prototype didn't work, but I'm I'm a successful flying car manufacturer with any movement from point A to B, where bumps on the even by calling you an Uber. Oh, and by the way, systematically destroying the careers of anyone we have to change this. Now, this is huge news, founders of string theory. And string theory actually, in theoretical physics, for fundamental to come out. Before you go ahead, before you about string theory is. It's a mathematical theory mechanics. In that sense, it's an existence proof with each other. For many years, people thought other's throats, they couldn't be reconciled. We let's call it anti-de Sitter space string theory, and gravity can coexist. Capital S string theory for example, with certainty, because of this quantum mechanics. It was thought by Hawking for couldn't be reconciled, standard principles and in that sense, we have an existence proof for That's no small thing, that's a big thing. And done for us. Apart from the, there's another thing has described hadron physics. Hadron physics means issue. String theory is a very fundamental theory, us an existence theorem that quantum mechanics that's no small thing. It's a major development more. And so string theory in that sense is not a spectacular achievement. But it does not yet it has to be generalized, and we don't know how. relativity with the standard model? Well, the of reconcile, reconciling general relativity model of particle physics or cosmology? Right, There simply are none. If there was one, we'd be in some way looks a little bit like the standard have with the appropriate version of it. It can even have quarks. But always, the supersymmetry world. So in many ways, it does look like the real doesn't look like the real world. So we'd like to the bad features. Still a work in progress. We Not to my knowledge, not to my knowledge. What or Eric Weinstein or Julian Barbour or Stephen everything. Okay, I will ask you, what do you of their theories are. No, we don't have the time know that Stephen Wolfram is a great advocate of, them? Cellular automata, at least before, to hypergraphs. Okay. That certainly doesn't so it's a failure. Well, Eric Weinstein's is that of Pati-Salam along with the three generations to you at another point. I don't know who so I can't comment. Do you know Julian Barbour doesn't believe in time. Yes, that's correct, I think what he says is trivial, that the universe? I believe it's shape dynamics. Oh, you said that was super interesting. SU5 may at you then corrected yourself and said, or can you explain why you believe at some level who are physicists, many people who are, and you oh, grand unified theory, that's been disproven, what are you thinking of? When Glashow and spectacular way in which the ordinary particles, into SU5 multiples. And it seems to me that's no protons, the standard model fit into the SU5 in a is an accident, but I feel it's not an accident. for sure. It was certainly too simple. People have but all of those things contain SU5. And the that, in these other more extended theories, in pretty much the way that Glashow and Georgi wrong, but the statement that baryon decay doesn't of the case that people try to make their theories is they're looking for, it's always, not always, that the next round of experiments will discover supersymmetry. We know that supersymmetry is not people made these theories in which an approximate very next accelerator experiment, with no good to be true. They wanted to discover it. I think fact, let's put it this way. Over the last, how around? For almost 50 years, something like that. the lower bound and the lifetime of the proton of 10 to the 34 years, or 10 to the 33 and a in the constraints from the time of the early premature. If the proton decay occurred at 10 35 years, 10 to the 35 seconds, seconds, years, I think there's plenty of room in these theories experimental limits and still be unstable the way I think people have just given up on that subject confirming it. Other than just wait. You know, the of a proton is known to be longer than about how then can you ever detect the proton to decay? for 10 to the 32 years, 33 years? No. What you 33 protons, and you wait for one to decay out of that experiment can be done. Just think about it a huge number, and you sit there waiting for one that's really at the edge of technology. And if if the, instead of 10 to the 33 years, it was discovering it for another, I don't know, 50 proton decay has ruled out SU-5. I think doesn't matter what I think. We just have to Yeah, that's, again, yeah. String theory is a the behavior of spacetime and so forth is not an equations have many, many solutions. The meaning within string theory for the coupling constants, itself, for the cosmological constant, for all theory of the universe in which the parameters at all. Instead, it's a theory that has many, many each one of which has a particle spectrum, it has Again, I'm speaking about the precise version of a learn a theory which is an expanded version, will have even more possibilities. How many 10 to the 500 different possibilities. It's much of the theory is very much looking for a needle collection of solutions of the theory is called and it's just the collection of all possible all the possible values of coupling constants, and it's a huge, huge number, huge landscape. the question of supersymmetry, even if we ignored through. What we do about it, I don't know. We've in the physics of fundamental interactions and harder. If you go back to the early parts of the mechanics experiment? A year, something like easily take a whole scientific lifetime. you have to build bigger detectors, you have so on. So experiments from the beginning to the lifetimes. And so we've run into the problem of if this picture of string theory, has this if that's correct, if that's correct, then we've sort. So things are hard. For that reason, many put that on the back burner. Let's simply focus on We know gravity exists, there's no question about quantum theories. We have to be able to make it the work that people like myself, people that connection between quantum mechanics and gravity. that contain both gravity and quantum mechanics. holes. Hopefully we'll be able to answer some obviously that's not completely satisfactory. We world of electrons, photons, neutrons, and we're So is there a reason to believe that with any landscape that there should be an associated With Einstein's equations, there are a variety with a hollow center, technically. It's not like to every solution of Einstein's equations. If the universe is really big enough, then no matter how If the probability of something is 10 to the minus the 200 regions of space, then you have more than You understand the point that just because there's it doesn't necessarily mean that existence has to if the universe is big enough. If it's first of all, do its equations allow variety to and a region over here to be different from inflation, eternal inflation, do allow that behaviors. And if the universe is big enough, some place will have whatever it is you're looking are that big. So big that essentially anything But that's what it would take to make this make sense. The universe just doesn't need to is exponentially expanding. It may have been If it was exponentially expanding deep into the exponentially big? It means very, very much bigger of the universe as being about 20 billion light That's the part that we can see without running exponentially expanded for a long enough time in that. Well, what I mean is that Einstein's field so static black hole. That static black hole it doesn't even form. It's always been there a solution of the universe no matter how large is about the whole universe itself. And that any in an isolated case. But if you take a solution Einstein's equations by themselves would say that in otherwise empty space. Hawking told us no. The black hole will evaporate. But I'm not Einstein's equations predict that a black hole is hole will evaporate. Which one is right? Almost answer is right. But that's beside the point. talking about what a physicist would call vacuum space. When I say there's lots of solutions, I holes. I mean that a solution is describing empty not about the presence of black holes. They're about the values of the masses, about the solution has a different collection of elementary times lighter than the proton. Somewhere else in which are 2,000 times heavier than the proton and nevertheless, there may be many, many solutions cosmological constants and not coexist with what very, very small cosmological constants. We're not talking about what empty space is like, what the as I said, there's a huge variety of those things. reason to believe that these different solutions large universe? Is the universe big enough properties will exist someplace in some region of the universe is maybe exponentially and maybe even exponential, exponential times bigger than what's out there beyond the region we can see. some place else. And that's what the equations long enough and the universe gets sufficiently quilt with regions of different properties. Some cosmological constants. And there'll just be a Penrose and Steinhardt, they believe that So Penrose, I believe, says that it just pushes conditions. What arguments against inflation do are the most challenging to you? No, I don't. I be wrong. But there's so much good confirmation, to me very unlikely that it's wrong. Look, there for God's sakes. There's people who believe individuals. Think about the consensus of on these things, and you'll probably be right. The Peculiar individuals, no matter how famous if they're off that consensus, and they've they're probably wrong. That doesn't mean the weirdos. Look for what the consensus of the physicists believe. And you'll probably be right. cases where the consensus has gone wrong for a of some particular individual suddenly changes but rarely. Penrose, what can I say? He believes But more than that, things that the consensus what drives him. He seems to have a problem observational cosmologists who actually measure you that there's strong evidence for inflation. evidence. In the form of fluctuation spectrum, the structure and so forth. Highly successful theory. they're probably right. Professor, we can't make that's a logical fallacy. I know you know that. I physics could be done, if we were going to make arguments, but your own unconventional views people pointed out that they're probably incorrect Penrose isn't just an offbeat no-one. This physics, forget about experimental physics, physics. In the theoretical end, we've already which means you're going to get a biased set consensus in theoretical physics. The proportion theory versus those who don't, there's a disparity string theory is not predicated on inflation, nor theorists I know. Not completely. Not completely. it. Gross also believes that inflation, or at is of a different sort of not experimentally it's an in-principle unfalsifiable hypothesis, you could verify atoms with enough precision, multiverse. 400 B.C., when the atomic theory was against it. This is unverifiable. They're too quark theory came out, everybody said, quarks They're unverifiable. What's unverifiable at one to a point where it can be seen. Will we be able might be able to detect some things about eternal non-flatness of space. Not space-time, but and Coleman-De Luccia instantons, whatever, lots of stuff, has a prediction. It predicts positively curved. At the present time, I think kind of like saying the earth is flat, because if miles of where we are, it'll look very flat. But out past the horizon, you know what Christopher out at the sea and for the horizon, look out a high up on a ladder and see a little further. positively curved. The same thing here, if we can is curved. Not locally, but globally. If the space direct refutation of, let's call it this landscape comes out to be negatively curved, it will not prove, but it will be consistent with that. So to just haven't been able to do the high precision another possibility is there, these different they can actually collide with each other. One CMB, the Cosmic Microwave Background, we might with other regions. These are something that in it's unverifiable, but you know, something can and still be true. In fact, it's even possible that we're ever likely to be able to produce, and we'll be left only with mathematical consistency, and that is how we'll have to evaluate these okay, if you're trying to examine the Planck into it that you're going to then create create more and more of that black hole as you long lengths. It wasn't Nima Arkani-Hamed who said me. Okay, great. Okay, so you said this. So this of something at the Planck length. It's against riffing off of what you just said. If something is might begin to wonder whether it means anything. in some region which is fundamentally unprovable, the uncertainty principle. You could say the the same kind of thing. You could say it's a seem to be a limitation of the devices that we can't. I think the same is likely to be true So fundamental, not just that you don't have the can see things. You're asking whether you can just asking whether or not something at the probing of it. Planck length, yes. But smaller how do you probe small distances? You probe small in 20th century physics, the higher the energy, that as you try to probe even smaller and smaller become so large that black holes form. And not the bigger the black holes. So you come to a detect things. But it's not just a technological And I would say 21st century physics, at least is that as you try to probe smaller and smaller a point, the Planck length, which is where, which as you go even higher in energy and higher in lengths. But different properties of the yeah, what Mima says, I think, is a standard, by Not just what can be probed, but that the limits the theory. If you really have a fundamental my theory should not produce answers for things that's a prejudice, it may be wrong. Well, it can't ask questions about, just by definition? the framework of the theory, then it can't answer the theory should be reformulated so that it in some sense, are meaningless. You know, the tried and tried and tried to build theories in principle wasn't correct. That you could beat the if not in an experiment. Ultimately, that's not out is that we believe that quantum mechanics not violate the uncertainty principle, but that way that those things don't mean anything, those the velocity of a particle at the same time. So, both exist at the same time, but we can't measure just doesn't allow you to even think of the I think this latter view of quantum mechanics is it remains to be seen, but I think the same thing scales in a Planck wave. That's my feeling. But, will decide these things probably long after I'm Oh, me, personally? Yeah, yeah. What is it that in a more or less equal way. Somebody that is not and who can interact with me and interact with me interact with me. And somebody that I don't have them, no, you're wrong, without having them freak somebody who can tell me I'm wrong. That's but somebody who can tell me that I'm wrong with who has their own thoughts, somebody who's and who can interact with me on a more or less they do have important and interesting things to who would come to me and ask me a question and tell me something, I'd say, go away. But after were not only good questions, but I didn't know answers than I did. He, it happened to be a he in And I said, wait a minute, maybe this person is not an easy person for a student to deal with, that they do something that most students can't tell me I'm wrong when I'm wrong, not be afraid on eggs with them. Many people think you have to I just deal with them as though they were from the get-go. So, I recall you said that when student, you would be irreverent. You would look what they're talking about. Sure, you had respect this is going. So it's something like this. what are the problems I should be working on? And want to interact with, like you mentioned. But student came to me and said, you know, what should perfectly fair game. I don't want a student who I don't want dependency of the kind that, here's with it, come back and tell me what the solution with the students that I have as equals. Now, Hilary, what do you think the important problems have a friend named Fred, but Fred, what do you a discussion? That's fine. So no, I don't mind is important. What I do mind is them being totally with well. Now, it's a limitation of mine. It's a that are too dependent on me intellectually. I me and said, give me a problem. I say, if I had I would publish it. But let's talk about what solve some of them. I guess that's the bottom. let's talk about what we think is important. tell me what you think is important and together there's a push for quantum information in the EPR equals ER came about and complexity equals generalization of the other? Oh boy. Yes, I can I'm not going to try. No. ER equals EPR is a very two. Papers of Einstein, both in the year 1935, One of them being solutions of Einstein's field modern language, wormholes connecting two distant about it that way, but today we would say the relativity with two black holes connected That was the same year, exactly the same year was where they, I think first put forward the ideas nothing to do with each other. As far as he saw somehow deeply that they were connected they both occurred the same year. But what we now entangled, quantum mechanically entangled, or a wormhole between them. They're wormholes I think, a very dramatic development in the 11 years ago, something like that. powerful principle about quantum information and volume. Yeah. Things come to thermal equilibrium, sealed off, a sealed off box, or just systems come to thermal equilibrium in time. And the time rapid. It doesn't take long. Long on what scale, to thermal equilibrium pretty quickly. Now a black And if you think about how long it takes from the horizon is first created, how long does it come general relativity point of view, it's just that starts out very small area, starts out a tiny And that's what it comes to thermal equilibrium. hole, a solar mass black hole would come to If you did something to the black hole, which would come back to thermal equilibrium in some fast things come to thermal equilibrium. On the and you ask now how the area of the horizon grows, the interior of the black hole grows. It grows for So the question was, what is it that's growing in theoretic quantity, what quantity is growing? In to thermal equilibrium quickly, it was the entropy grow for a very long time. We've known that just thing? The only known thing that continues to grow what's called complexity, quantum computational exponentially long for it to settle down. So long time growth of the interior of the black long, long time growth was the growth of quantum complexity is a very, very subtle quantity. It's about. It was a property that I don't think ever even thought about or even heard about. I can this was not part of a theoretical physicist's caught on. It was not one of these things where it might be right. And it caught on, and every single person that's interested in quantum expert than I am on what quantum complexity means. out of computer science. It's a question of how state you're interested in, some target state. with some simple state, by simple operations. only involve individual small number of degrees computer, we would be talking about operations time. It could be just pairs of qubits. Gates, which takes place on a small number of degrees of certain state? The minimum number of gates that minimum number is called the complexity of the in quantum mechanics for a very, very long time, it's not true. In classical physics, complexity equilibrium saturates. It comes about. In quantum It was his explanation about why quantum mechanics to wade through. Quantum complexity can be reasonable amount of time. So the only thing that the black hole could be connected to was quantum examples. I tested it out in various properties and they matched. This was a surprise to most complexity for the most part. I think the only meant were my colleague Hayden, Patrick Hayden, to being a physicist, and one of my students, was. And in fact, to some extent, they even taught the only two physicists that I have ever heard of what it is. So yes, it does appear that the growth computational complexity. The state of the black period, much longer than it takes for it to come Anyway, I think without a blackboard and without you what I can tell you about complexity and ER entropy. So there are two questions I have and I believe it was Wheeler. Oh no, I believe it entropy. Do you still think that's true? could tackle if you like. I don't know. Did von what you're talking about, you can call whatever like von Neumann entropy or Shannon entropy, So there's that. And then there's also, well, how that's overrated? Entropy is understood? Yeah, ultimately understood. We always have developing that something is understood, if you mean by never change, I think almost nothing in physics consensus on how to use it, forget the word how to make predictions with it, how to use it, What could be more complicated about- Yes, something now that you're telling me that von I'm surprised that he understood it. I think I be an evolution of our ideas of entropy? I think with counting microstates. However, there are you view what entropy is? It's one way of thinking is it's hidden information. That information about which is for one reason or another hidden from of a gas of particles, what is the total amount of I'm talking about classical particles now. What do be able to predict their future? You need to know That's obviously not feasible. Why? Because there Too many and too small. So that information is fact that there are so many of them and they're so position and velocity of every particle. So all for other reasons. It could be in some other room information is what's called entropy. That's one microstates. Now, it's sort of the same thing. Microstate, in the case that I described, is You count the number of microstates that you can't too small. You take all of those microstates, take the logarithm of that number, and that's the that you don't have the capacity to distinguish you might not be able to distinguish it is because all of this information. So microstates is one of it, but they're really the same. Right. What gravity that your colleagues think differently know that we think terribly differently. That's a clear answer, but at the present time, I'm our complete dependence on anti-de Sitter space the most, anti-de Sitter space, this kind of precise set of notions, and we simply have no which means de Sitter space. So I don't I think there are certainly big things missing, which I think we can focus on. What is missing? I would work on it. It's not clear what's missing, missing. It could also be there's something that if it was correct, it would be too difficult for reason you don't want to tackle it. Absolutely. of our understanding of quantum mechanics? Just I thought thought deeply. I tell you, we know meaning of quantum mechanics is not understood at Feynman believed that he knew how to use quantum what he said was quantum mechanics is so a problem about the foundations of quantum had problems with quantum mechanics, and pretty foundations of quantum mechanics, ultimate meaning theories like many worlds theories and other but are very, very confusing, and I really think deepest level. Okay, what's the problem? I think mechanical experiment, we separate the world into all of the rest of the world, and the apparatus think of the apparatus and observer as part of can interact with the system, but not as part of and that's essential for the way we use quantum On the other hand, the detectors, the observers able to describe in a single way both the system observers, and the detectors, and furthermore, even branches of the way it functions where there observers and system, which is artificial. It's everything is described by one set of principles the system we're studying are all part of the we almost invariably make a separation into problem about collapse of the wave function. our detectors becoming entangled with the system yet. I don't feel I have this. Yeah. Well, the or you don't think they're on the right track? answer. It's a technical question. There may be it. What are the technical questions that you put unable to respond to? First of all, there's this which branch and branch and branch. The way a the trees grow, but the branches never come back branching universe, according to the many worlds It's a probability tree. It's a decision tree. that the principles of quantum mechanics do So that's one. In fact, they're using the wrong possibilities. The other is a technical problem. problem, but the question is, how many branches how many branches emerge? You usually think two but that's not correct. If the probabilities for can imagine the universe splits into two parts. you require the universe splits into four parts, the other thing? What if it's some irrational the universe at each node has to split into an irrational numbers. So there are technical I don't think it's understood. My friend 't Hooft don't know. 't Hooft is someone who you respect and he has his deterministic, super-deterministic understand where he's coming from. I understand think I can dismiss what he says. It's a Most of the people I know dismiss it. They I still think it's wrong. For reasons? I don't I think he's wrong if I don't tell you at the theorists. I'm not the string theorist. The bad, it's not the problem, but they don't give Here, in criticizing both the many worlds I don't have anything to offer which which of these two almost diametrically new and interesting way of thinking about things, or for you to listen to me when I say I'm Professor, we can't claim that there are no other if we don't examine the competitors. But I don't like Peter Woit, or Garrett Lisi, or Latham, the Internet, if you look on the archive, he has a mathematics and bad physics. They're just bad. I but I'm going to say it anyway. He has that if he had something that was compelling the physics community would notice him. I very unimpressed. Lisi, I can't understand. all dependent on some fancy mathematics that about these people. Maybe I shouldn't be. Who I found it very uninspiring what I've seen of some... Loop gravity is another one. Loop gravity, either of these people, Lisi or Woit, do they have does. What is he saying? He has something called space-time rotations become an internal... SO4 That's some gravity-weak unification. Lisi, as the SU(3) cross SU(2) cross U1 as a supergroup. the gravity in SU(3) cross SU(2) cross U1... cross SU(2) cross U1 is the symmetry group excluding gravity. It does not address gravity. well in there. And then, as far as I know, the of E8. But it may have changed. Doesn't matter. means. And he also has triality with E8. So he the reason why I say this is because... No, no, gravity. Not the three fermions. Well, I mean, have something to do with gravity. Although it Lisi is saying. I think you have to dismiss what I what they said in detail. It is possible that I mean not part of the standard consensus, might smarter than I think. It is quite possible. know. So far, I would say that I haven't seen all I can say. Sure. Loop gravity is a little which at one time I thought might be interesting. seems to be petering out, doesn't seem to have any we discovered that some features of string theory loop gravity. I think that's possible. So it's many years ago. I was interested in it. It didn't and end up nowhere. But that could change. But the lookout for ideas which are not the consensus. dismiss them because they're not exactly the same we should be doing that. So I would agree with enough with some of these ideas. That's huge of That being said, I don't know any at the I think you should linger on that because I do spoken to several other people who are part of to here, some string theory and so on. And many loop quantum, which you did not just now display track, it's not as if you're thinking that it's it's illegitimate. No. I think there are separate made which were illegitimate. Claims to be able basic ideas, I think, are legitimate. I'm not done they- But Sean Carroll is not one of the people defends string theory as if he's one of them. think there's anything wrong with naming people. widely known. And second of all, it's important you're right. Most of the people I know, and are derisive about a lot of these ideas. And skepticism about them, and maybe to some extent, hidden about that. The answer is I've looked about them. If you call that derision, yeah, I maybe there are elements in those theories which which will connect better with the things which I I suspect most of my friends don't entertain. tell you. Okay, then let's just end with what entering the field? There are many researchers excited to go into physics and philosophy. but let's just stick with math and physics, maybe I would tell people is don't listen to old people. something, or you think something is interesting, and so forth tell you it's uninteresting, it's reason to think it's right, don't be intimidated telling young people that I thought something was became important. I was wrong. They were right. do something very impactful, because they didn't don't listen to people when they say something good reason to think it's right. That's the first I would say. What you should work on, I don't work on it myself. So think for yourself. Don't is impossible if you think it's possible, and afraid. Don't be afraid. Follow your curiosity. than the direction that the current consensus even though it potentially could, you know, working on the wrong things. The wrong things well-meant colleagues are not working on. They so forth, they have to work on the even if they think, even if they know and important. So think for yourself. Think for follow your curiosity. That's my advice. And if in the wrong field. Thank you, sir. You're with you. Enjoyable afternoon. I appreciate that. ask me, hey, Curt, you've spoken to so many people and consciousness. What are your thoughts? While is a way to peer into my present deliberations The Economist. Firstly, thank you for watching. or clicked that like button, now is the time to helps YouTube push this content to more people a.k.a. me. I also found out last year that which means that whenever you share on Twitter, it shows YouTube, hey, people are talking about greatly aids the distribution on YouTube. Thirdly, for Theories of Everything, where people explicate and build, as a community, our own TOE. Links to know this podcast is on iTunes, it's on Spotify, to do is type in Theories of Everything and you'll lectures and podcasts. I also read in the comments So how about instead you re-listen on those whichever podcast catcher you use. And finally, this, more content like this, then do consider donating with whatever you like. There's also joining on YouTube. Again, keep in mind, it's me to work on TOE full-time. You also get early or video. It's audio in the case of Patreon, video that you're listening to right now was released than you think. Either way, your viewership