Fukushima and the Three Mile Island worst nuclear reactor accidents in our I'm going to explain the physics and implement the simulation and get an understanding of in the Three Mile Island accident. A lot of you This video is part two of the Chernobyl I introduced one nuclear concept at a time and extremely fast refresher if you didn't watch first. If you're up to speed already, just So, we set a uranium-235 nuclei to be a big blue smaller circle. These two can interact and to be a light gray color. These elements or the daughter products of the fission reaction. to undergo spontaneous-neutron-emission, Used-up uranium-235 will be replaced magically; of uranium-235. We have control rods that absorb but the water can also heat up and evaporate. move too fast for interaction and do not upon collision with the fast neutrons, absorb With all of these properties, we can simulate the of that was confusing or was too quick, Introducing water-based moderators. The graphite moderator reactor R.B.M.K is not the focus of today. Instead we'll talk about a not use graphite moderators. So let's throw out The control rods keep retracting, desperate need of some moderation, since and therefore, the interaction probability is I actually lied a bit--I simplified the model. and a great one, actually. These water-based instead of a positive one, are much, much safer. the water will not only randomly absorb neutrons moderate) fast neutrons when they are inside and the neutron can stimulate fission again. So, let's see this moderation of water retract control rods and insert them again to try and reach around 40 neutrons inside the So, we can see water is a possible choice as a plants use it today. But the water I showed you in Heavy versus light water--just a quick side note. heavy or light water? Light water is what comes and an oxygen nucleus bound together. I didn't no role in a nuclear reaction. So, the two With heavy water, these two hydrogen nuclei called deuterium. Both types of but heavy water won't absorb neutrons as is more dangerous because it will absorb more nuclear fuel and a higher neutron density in So, to answer the question: are we neither--since I'm just manually typing in it doesn't have anything to do I'll now try to recreate a by completely retracting the control rods. But, as you can see, the reactor has a negative more water evaporates. As more water evaporates, the reactor loses its ability to moderate This is an example of passive nuclear safety, where a nuclear reactor will try to shut of control. Water-based moderator reactors and everyone lived happily with free Frank, it was an accident at the Oh. To Japan now, where over a million nuclear power plant has begun to Oops. Okay, so not quite.. Unfortunately, even though this passive we will see what went wrong. Let's start by moderator reactors that had this negative void type, and another was a pressure reactor. though some hid in cancer rates for some. released--about 7% of what was released during fallout was released gradually, resulting From a physics standpoint, these accidents are explain what went wrong. Both accidents--Fukushima but before I'm able to do that, I need to nuclear decay heat. After fission, the and will continue to release secondary and gamma rays. This will continue As a better example, if you look at the table of of random decay an element will undergo; black is look at the fission of Uranium-235, in a fission and, of course, three neutrons. Barium and krypton highly energetic particles until they change Of course, this is just one of the two daughter Let's simplify the radioactive products the alpha particles, and beta particles all decay heat property to the simulation: after it will now become radioactive. I'll set the radioactive part to be able and gamma rays--at random times. Then it light gray color as before. So, let's use Timeline of Accident Events Event 0: Both reactors are running stable both reactors were running perfectly fine. time so you can get a feel for this decay heat including the purple particles from the decay representing radioactive decay, don't the only effect is that they heat up the core. Event 1: Something is wrong. In both reactors, scanned the FIMA power PL. At Three Mile a loss in water pressure, which scrammed the you can see I'm also scramming the only takes around 3 seconds, but it took 20 seconds. But if the reactor Event 2: Loss of cooling. To reflect this in In Fukushima, the backup diesel generators were a valve was mistakenly left open, and the turned off. These particles causing decay heat by neutrons but rather by nucleons deciding to control rods can't do anything, leaving only check. But, as mentioned, the coolant water was total energy production of a reactor, so it's volume. If you can't cool down this decay heat, control rods, and other materials, forming this corium will continue getting hotter until Event 3: Meltdown. Okay, it looks quite lame it. Both reactors had a partial meltdown. Just extremely hot, lava-like mass capable of melting and large containment buildings were able the remaining water inside the reactor which could lead to an explosion and the environment. This unfortunately Event 4: Later, they got the water cooling under most nuclear fuel. Afterward, efforts to At Three Mile Island, the situation and the reactor was permanently shut down. The release of radiation to the surrounding complex and took longer due to the extensive were eventually stabilized and cooled, but the Thank you to the generous Patreon and to the one-time donations on Ko-fi. Consider supporting these videos if you would All right, so that's the physics of both details but kept the essential physics of