Want to know where every Okay then. It's time for another RobWords. I've uncovered all kinds of bits and bobs while researching this that I think I haven't seen other people We've got a whole continent to get through. Let's get cracking. So where on earth should I start? Yeah, right here, I suppose. I'm speaking to you from Germany it was the land of the Germani - speaking gibberish languages The historian Tacitus used the poor folk living outside of the Roman Empire. The Romans also used the word Alemanni to and that's where a load of other languages Meanwhile the Slavs to the east of about the Germanic languages and dubbed their Germany is unusual in the number of different and the Germans themselves and definitely not with the Estonians and but that's just a bit of Germany. The Germans call their country Deutschland, Dutch comes from a very old Germanic So Deutschland means "land of the people". Classic German creativity on display there. Okay that's a little unfair. In Germany, speaking what to them were the popular so Deutschland is actually better Which leads us nicely onto where WE Netherlands just means "low countries": it's an enduring reference to the country's lowness In the past the term Netherlands applied to a term is preferable to what for a long time was which actually refers to a smaller area! Holland So why do we call the people who Because they don't call themselves that; Well, in English, the word Dutch used to refer to all of the Germanic-language speaking So, excluding Scandinavia. And we called the ones living in northern Now we call some of them Germans To Belgium now, which for a of the Netherlands - part of the low countries. Indeed, the name Belgian used to be used people of the whole of the Netherlands, The word Belgium comes from the Latin It started off as an exonym - so a name rather than the people living but it was adopted by people living in region's struggle for independence Yes, Spain used to run the Netherlands. The ones now calling themselves Belgians northern neighbours who didn't want So shall we go off to sunny Spain next then? Because this is without doubt one of the names we're going to cover. Think of all the things you associate with Spain. No, I mean it, do it. [Flamenco music] Okay, I'm willing to bet my life the one was rabbits. But that, my friend, is what Spain is named Our word for Spain comes - via and the Romans in turn took their word from the Carthaginians who were When they arrived there they were so number of long-eared rodents that Although, supposedly the name didn't meant "land of the rock hyrax" which is a and that the Carthaginians are more likely to Now Spain isn't the only country named for Allow me to tell you the story of Iceland. So guess what Iceland's named after. Yeah, ice. We have an amazing source for the Book on the settlement of Iceland by the Vikings. It says a Norseman called Hrafna-Floki loosely based - attempted to settle on the island However, in the meantime, he vista of pack ice he saw before Before that though, the island had already all of whom appear to have missed the Call it fireland for goodness sake. Or Lavaland. Anyway, we've been calling it Iceland in Now, those of us who speak English kinds of doors and enable us to Because being able to speak The astonishing pace that technology is of the best paid and most flexible just ask Mr Musk and Mr Bezos. And now, anyone can make the regardless of age and background thanks Their 5-to-9 month online courses anywhere and combine it with your current job. And Tripleten guarantees a full 180 days of graduation: something that because TripleTen gives its companies and continues to support So click the link in the description of this video and sign up for a completely free and use my code RobWords to get Just give it a go Now, rather literal descriptions like Iceland Not so far away, Norway was you sailed along its coast it led you north. Really, really north. The Old English name is quite literally Old English spelling in the way we We should talk about their Scandinavian The Den at the start of Denmark is actually a bit of a weird one. No one is It's thought to maybe come from a long lost word meaning "low" or "flat" but it That of legendary ruler King Dan. Dan is not a good name for a king. There's no proof King Dan existed The "mark" bit of the name is a little term for a borderland - similar to the word so this is either the borderland This idea of a borderland crops up in the stories One of them is way over in Austria. Our word Austria comes from a latinised the country which nowadays is Both names mean "eastern realm". However which meant eastern march and Yes, it really is as simple as that. Past English names for the country There's a Polish beer I have and that's actually named after the He was one of three brothers, who according Another of the brothers was to the legend founded the eastern And the third brother supposedly gave His name was Czech. Yes, we're in Czechia now, what was until Although the legend of Rus, Lech explanation for the name of Czechia, Czechia is named for the folk who used to live in Bohemia - the Roman name for the region While we're slaving over the slavic lands lets Slovakia and Slovenia both The Slovaks and Slovenes are two groups of and their respective countries cultures and histories - are named after them. By the way, a few moments ago I made a But did you know that they are actually related? Our word slave comes from the but that made reference to the fact that a lot Their word for Slav was also sclavus. Incidentally, the Romans servus and that takes us to So there is a thousand year old comes from that Latin word servus from which And that misconception wasn't helped by the fact that Serbian was sometimes something that the people of Serbia expressly Because it's a false association. We don't know why the Serbs called just know that their country is named after them. Serbia's neighbour, and ex-Yugoslavian partner, Croatia is also named after the people We call the country Croatia, Hrvatska - which looks like a very "H" and "C" noises swap around and the V in Hrvatska used to be We used to call Croats Crovats or Cravats and doesn't that last word look familiar? Well it should do because we use the exact same Yup, a cravat is literally a Croat. You see, we've taken the word firstly to describe the people of Dalmatia, the In the intervening period between those two said to have enjoyed the stylish chest adornments his entire court to begin wearing them, and the When they caught on in England [Austin Powers] "Oh behave" Now we're in France, let's stick like Croatia, Serbia and all those others - named for the people who once lived there. France gets its name from the Franks, the Germanic tribes who settled But for a long time, it was thought meaning "free" - like when we speak However, that's no longer what etymologists Much like the Romans essentially they appear to have adopted the name because in Frankish Gaul, only the Franks So where did the Franks get their name from then? after one of their favourite weapons, a javelin In Old English it was a franca. Let's head back north and to the Nordics where there's another country that's just It's Sweden: the land of the Swedes. It's hard to know what else to call Sverige which is also just "realm of the Swedes". Past English names for Sweden have been Sweoland Here's a little fact I think you'll like. So you know how a cravat is literally a Croat? Well Elvis's natty blue shoes Yes: our word suede comes from the French Suede just means Sweden in French. But it's ended up meaning the material that these stylish Scandinavian gloves Let's head next to Sweden's alphabetical we're just talking about a Switzerland means land of the Switzer. SURPRISE! Although, here's where it gets confusing, because Switzer is actually an old Germanic So Switzerland actually means land of Eugh. And Switz was actually just one region Now, I've talked so much about but one notable group are screaming out at Let's head to Romania. Romania is so called because Indeed Romanians historically see themselves as Their words for Roman and Romanian are the same, The etymology of this one is a bit a place named after a people named But what are we gonna do? Revert to But that's already been taken The Romans are arguably the ultimate the nations we have yet to cover are So let's just quickly run through The Tribal Coundown. [humming Final Countdown riff] Hey, that band's called Europe. Anyway, cue the rights-free music. Here we go. In at number 10 it's Turkey, It's named after the Turks. And so is the bird, which gets its name for the Turkish traders Those weren't the turkeys we eat today though: Europeans just used the same name for the At number nine it's Latvia. it's named after the Baltic At number eight it's Hungary - named But the Hungarians call themselves the Magyars. Number seven in our tribal countdown is Greece. It gets its name from the Latin Although the Greeks were just one of In at six it's Finland - the land of the Finns. Although the Fins call themselves In fact, their language rarely At number five we're popping just across the water We used to call Estonians Esths, but it was a horrorshow of excessive Number four in our tribal countdown is Bulgaria. It's named after the Bulgars Azerbaijan is at number three. It means land of the Azer, and the locals either something along the lines At number 2 it's Armenia. This name goes way way back. The And as far as we know it just And at number 1 - but don't read which is named after the the However, the Albanians call which means "land of the comprehensible people". They define themselves by a common language. Ta daa! The observant among you will notice that I actually just did those in The idea of trying to rank countries in any Moving on: North Macedonia is an interesting bit of its name at the end of a dispute with There's a part of Greece called that too. The word itself is thought to ultimately derive which has been taken as a potential who were apparently sort of lanky! It might, however, simply be a And that brings us onto another those that come from features of the landscape. Perhaps the most obvious Its name is a word-for-word translation means black mountain and refers to the Next door, Bosnia and Herzegovina likely gets Bosna itself is thought to rather Meanwhile the Herzegovina part which is a kind of German duke. It's Like Bosnia, Moldova is named after a river too: But you will never in a million years guess what Actually go on: try. Try. [Mysterious music] If you said "a drowned dog" you are According to legend, the founder of Dragos - had a dog that drowned while That dog's name was Molda. Ooh, here's a good one: Portugal. Portugal comes from the Roman name Portus Cale, It means Cale port, but that first It might be from the Greek Kallis, meaning It might come from the name of the people who used to live there or it might come In which case, Portugal just means port port. Okay. One of the theories behind Malta's name is that it comes from a Phoenecian word simply All rather disappointing and literal. But there is a fancier potential explanation: that the Roman name for the island A much sweeter idea. A handful of Europe's tiniest nations are The Vatican is named after Mons Vaticanus, Meanwhile Luxembourg is a Germanic rendering Naw. Liechtenstein is also named after a castle: Liechtenstein castle, the name of which While we're thinking small, San Marino is named - from Dalmatia, he wasn't a dog - who set up a small church in a place called Meanwhile, miniature monarchy It comes from the Greek for But as for why it's called that... well your guess is as good as anyone's. Similarly, adorable little Andorra's name an Arabic term meaning "the forest" or it might Either way, it seems to be Cyprus might sound like it's named Or maybe it is - we don't actually You'll find a lot of sources saying was the main source of the metal However, it seems more likely The Latin name for the metal was So that would mean that the Therefore we don't know where While we're talking about mysteries, and that's where Italy got its name. It seems amazing to me that we To the Greeks and Romans, Italy just referred to the lower part But why they called it that, we don't know. It's possibly from an old term but it could also be named Unfortunately Italy is Also languishing in the bin of uncertainty Lithuanians like to joke that their country's particularly when the Baltic weather turns bad. But that is just a play on words And puzzled linguists also Now this one seems like it should There are three possible explanations One: it's from the Greek for "land Two: it's named after St George who the country's flag to this day Or three, and most kick-ass of all: Georgia comes Just take your pick. Okay, just two countries left: Ireland Well, I dedicated a whole video right here. And if you've already Please subscribe if you've enjoyed this one it was quite a lot of work. And sign up to my free newsletter if you like. See you in the next one.