- [Interviewer] Do the to a static state? - [Netanyahu] No, I - [Johnny] In 2007, the head for the Israeli army had a meeting with the US Ambassador in Tel Aviv. We're looking at the classified cable that summarizes what was The topic of discussion was Iran, Syria, the Gaza Strip and Hamas. Hamas had just won the which kicked off a fight with which ended in Hamas taking They controlled it. And if you're an Israeli this is a terrible set of events. Hamas is a violent extremist group known to commit heinous violence against civilians in Israel, and they were now in power. They controlled the Gaza Strip But look at this leaked document. In this leaked cable, you see that the Israeli official says that Israel would be happy because it would mean that like a hostile country. - [Reporter] Three days post cease fire, and there's unrelenting bombing in Gaza. - [Johnny] This document that right-wing factions have used for decades in an effort to win one of the most divisive in which two groups are fighting and one side is winning by one that the world says and one that worked for a short time, but that recently has for even worse violence In this video, I wanna lay out and show you how it failed. I know this is a topic that that has real stakes in people's lives. Please know that I am to tell this story with And also please note that of the conflict between but I do hope that it sheds that sometimes gets lost (intense music) (speaking in foreign language) (crowd cheering) For 2000 years, Jewish have been persecuted and segregated and ostracized from society. That is a fact. By the time the 1800s came around, it became clear that persecution would follow. This is when a movement to come together and to create where they could govern themselves and be free from all The creation of a Jewish at the top of its priority list the security of the Jewish people. But the big question was where? Several places floated Argentina, even modern day Kenya, which back then was Uganda. But most people in this to return to their historic homeland, a place called Palestine. Where Jews built their temple and their culture 3000 years ago, but then were exiled, and now there was this call to return so that Jews could feel safe after 18 centuries of Jewish suffering. So as the 1900s came around, tens of thousands of flocked to Palestine, which eventually came under The British were getting and were struggling to between Native Arabs and Then in the 1940s came a horrific genocide against the Jewish people in Europe, led out by Hitler and his Nazi regime. This created a wave of for this idea of giving the Jewish people a homeland where they could be safe. Before they left, the British asked the UN to determine what would and the UN decided that Palestine would become two new countries, one for the Jews and one that had already been - [Reporter] The Jewish the Arab state dark. Jaffa to go to the Arabs, - But as happens when outsiders there was a problem here. Within these borders that were meant for the new Jewish country, hundreds of thousands of who would soon have to leave their homes to move to their side of the line. Okay, wait. I'm gonna pause there. Because as I said this of the Arab-Israeli conflict. We actually just made a video on our new channel Search Party, which focuses on what happens next, the conflict between Israel You can go watch that. It'll give you some useful context. For now just know that this Jewish militias forced over 700,000 Arabs out of their homes turning The proposed borders shifted around, turned into ceasefire lines, and after all was said and done, the Jewish people did indeed the state of Israel. And the two important points the very foundation of the Israeli country is for security of the Jewish people after nearly 2000 years of persecution. And number two, the location was becoming, as a not much safer than Europe. (intense violin music) That's a tension that Okay, so now let's fast forward to 1967. Israel has its country and they fight a short war and they win that war and they It's a huge victory for them. I'm gonna take away the because they did give that back to Egypt as part of a peace deal a few years later. Israel now controls that enlarge their Jewish country. Many saw this victory as a sign from God that they were actually But once again, Palestinians, nearly a million of whom had were living here in the West which Israel now controlled, but they weren't really And it's this territory for the strategy that is where over time this with roads and checkpoints, walls and other military infrastructure that would control the movement and lives of the Palestinians. Soon, even Israeli citizens in large numbers building full on towns and further dividing up this territory. Moving citizens into is something that the world So this occupation starts in 1967 and it goes on for decades, until eventually the can't handle it anymore and This is known as the first It started with boycotts, but escalated into mass protests where Palestinians of all and sometimes Molotov cocktails at much better equipped Israeli soldiers. It was Palestinian rage exploding against Israeli occupation, The Israeli government would killing many Palestinians. Another important thing that down in the occupied Gaza Strip promising to fight back calling for the destruction of Israel. The group is called Hamas. The first Intifada showed Chopping up Palestinian keeping them in this occupation, was only going to produce more violence. It wasn't gonna fulfill Israel's promise to provide security and They had to switch course. - The security of the Israeli with the hopes of the Palestinian people and there will be more - [Johnny] So in the 1990s, they start getting with the Palestinians, and they come to this agreement which for the first time establishes a Palestinian government authority and giving it power to in the West Bank. It also gave the over almost all of the Gaza Strip, though there were still This was a big deal for this conflict. Like, both sides were and coming to agreements that was giving like, But another theme of the story is that hardliners can use And that's exactly what happened here. Right wing Israelis start holding rallies, calling their Prime Minister for giving land to the Palestinians. Some of these rallies are led by a now familiar character, - The people of Israel want a real peace and real peace means peace with security. Peace they can trust with and they don't feel they have it here. We want a real peace, not a fake one. - [Johnny] But the peace talks continue. - With all our neighbors, - [Johnny] And shortly after signing the second part of this deal the Prime Minister Yitzhak by a far right Israeli. Hamas conducts bus bombings. And the next year, Benjamin Netanyahu is elected as the prime And Netanyahu is a key because his worldview that has taken root in The idea that the only to the Jewish people is by to stop the Palestinians anywhere in these borders. - Look, I'm 28 years old. I've had to defend my country in two wars and in many battles. Nobody wants peace more than Israel. But the stumbling block is this demand for a PLO state, which will mean more And I think, I sincerely believe, if this demand is abandoned, we can have real and genuine peace. - [Johnny] So that was But when he becomes the prime minister a couple decades later, he spends his term that his predecessor had claiming that the and its people wasn't actually conquest, but rather the key for They had to do this. Security was the one and only So under his watch settlers continue to move into the West Bank. We found this leaked video talking to some settlers in the West Bank. (several voices speaking) The cameraman does turn off but then turns it back on moments later. (Netanyahu speaking foreign language) He is admitting to that the Israeli government had signed with the Palestinians, that because he disagreed with them, he wanted to sabotage them because he was so against or any form of Palestinian And then he goes on to explain what his real thinking (Netanyahu speaking foreign language) Netanyahu is a fantastic and he's able to sort of cover in the name of security. But here we see what he really thinks as he's talking to these settlers thinking he's not being recorded. So unsurprisingly the on both sides. Palestinians come to the conclusion that the Israelis aren't really serious about giving them any kind of autonomy in the West Bank or Gaza, that their situation will never change. And once again, they rise This one, much more violent, (intense music) Hamas becomes a major with suicide bombings and attacks. Israel responds with great 1000 Israelis and 3000 At this point the Netanyahu is starting to look a lot better. Peace talks didn't work. All they did was produce more violence. And so maybe the only is to go back to full blown occupation of controlling every in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. So at this point the occupation gets more and more suffocating, more walls, more barriers, more checkpoints, more settlements. (intense music) Then in 2005 Israel withdraws letting the Palestinian Authority They turn their attention entirely to their historic homeland which is the West Bank. The next year an election is held in the Palestinian Authorities and the winner surprised the world and would create a new The winner of these elections was Hamas. - [Reporter] This is a for the Palestinians and for Israel. - [Johnny] The incumbent Palestinian party that had lost the election tried to forcibly hold on to power, and soon the two Palestinian parties were fighting with each other. And it results in this split between the two Palestinian governments. It turns into violence. And when the dust settles, there's suddenly a bitter divide between these two Palestinian groups, Hamas completely taking And this gets us back that we started this video with where an Israeli official is saying that they would actually be happy if Hamas took over the Gaza Strip because now they can treat Now that they're not occupying it, they're not responsible who are living there. They can impose a blockade coming in and out of the Gaza Strip, people, food, medicine, But there was another that Hamas now controlled the Gaza Strip. The Palestinian government Hamas ruling Gaza and by a more moderate, secular And crucially neither considered which weakened their ability to negotiate for any kind of state, especially when Hamas still refused to recognize Israel's right to even exist. This division played right into the hands of the Israeli right. And this gets us back that enemy of the earlier peace talks. He gets elected once again in 2009, declaring himself Mr. Security and promising to provide who are still shaken and are now worried the entirety of the Gaza Strip. Netanyahu's playbook He had said it point blank. It's what he had been doing for years. Sabotaging peace talks that any kind of authority over this land, and continuing to build settlements, while continuing in his to hit the Palestinians hard A complete assault on the Dividing and slowly conquering making life hard and desperate for them, controlling their lives, And this is where we get to almost alliance between the enemy of Israel. As long as Hamas held the Palestinian cause would Netanyahu would feel justified in imposing this crippling blockade of the Gaza Strip, which in turn gave Hamas legitimacy among the people of the Gaza Strip, showing that their armed struggle against Israeli oppression was justified, provoking them to launch to show that they were unlike the Palestinian which in turn bolstered that the Palestinians they want violence and And the only way for security is more occupation, more oppression. So instead of try to take Hamas out, Netanyahu overtly supported them by approving huge transfers literally delivered in cash that would inevitably to be used against Israel. He legitimized Hamas by releasing a thousand Palestinian prisoners in exchange for one Israeli. - The Israeli soldier held for five years is expected - The more Netanyahu could but keep them contained, the more he could ensure that He could keep peace talks which in turn gave him time to continue to pursue his expansionist And indeed, since 2009, when Netanyahu became the Prime Minister, the number of settlements in And if you look at this map, you can see how these settlements just weave through and carve up this land, making it impossible to even fathom what a Palestinian state could look like, which is precisely the I actually reported out here, visiting the settlements I did a series talking to the settlers, trying to understand what it's like to live that are strangely peaceful and banal and just mundane, people because they're protected by the army. If you want a deeper dive on settlements, you can go watch that series. But if you're Netanyahu you think your plan is working. Like, you see all these the international community They keep supporting you. Every once in a while there's where Palestinians get into a but it gets contained. Every few years Hamas fires some rockets, which then gives Israel the &quot;cut the grass&quot; by violent military campaign And every day that goes by, the notion of a Palestinian state becomes less and less feasible. This is one reason why a called Hamas &quot;an asset.&quot; (man speaking in foreign language) So divide and conquer has in Israel for a long time, but especially in the last And again, to the people in Maybe this violent status and the far right can get Security for the Jewish people and expansion into all of this land. And maybe the occupation will and they would give up on But that's not what happened. On October 7th, 2023, we saw how wrongheaded this - In an unprecedented surprise attack, the militant Hamas rulers of Gaza sent dozens of fighters into - This deadly attack launched by Hamas showed us that while Netanyahu's strategy of divide and conquer might be good for taking over more land, what it's not good for is making good on the original promise of Israel, which is ensuring the In fact, his strategy has (crowd chanting in foreign language) Now, the responsibility for lies with the people who Hamas fighters and their leaders. There is no excuse or But the point I'm trying is that there's also others that need to stand accountable here. Those who used Hamas as a pawn to continue this divide who are now engaged in a campaign of mass bloodshed on civilians, they deserve to stand accountable as well, to the Israeli people and to the countries that support Israel. I believe in the need I think that's a very reasonable proposal that Jewish people should feel And yet what we're looking at isn't it. The Israeli project, the way that it's been produces the exact opposite of security for the Jewish people. Thanks for watching, and I know that you and I'm sure a lot of you and that's okay. I want to hear from you. I want to listen to that and I will see you down in the comments. Today's video, we didn't because a lot of people right now don't want to be attached But luckily I can tell you about something that is a big support to our journalism, which is Nebula. Nebula's a platform where we publish all of our videos ad-free. It is a platform that is run and owned by creators, which makes a big difference But it is a place where creators like me who like to learn about the On Nebula you'll also find stuff that you can't find anywhere else, stuff that's exclusive These are called Nebula Originals. Stuff like Modern is extremely rigorous and well-told and explains how wars are fought today. And again, you can't The other thing I love about Nebula is that I find new creators like this is a new It's about the Soviet Nuclear Program, and it's just really high-quality stuff. It's very similar to what you see here, but you can't get it anywhere else. It's not on YouTube. There are loads of these and when you sign up, you support the creators Including us here. We're trying to do independent journalism and deep dive investigations and it's a big effort. We have a big team of people When you sign up for Nebula using the link in our description, some of your monthly subscription so that we can continue to so that we can do more ambitious things. The link is Nebula.tv/JohnnyHarris. Again, click the link, and if you're gonna sign It is $2.50 a month if you It's $5 a month if you You can cancel any time. So, sign up for Nebula, support us. Watch a bunch of exclusive stuff. It's Nebula.tv/JohnnyHarris. Thank you all for being here, and I'll see you in the next one. (closing synth music)