When I covered the handheld ports for LEGO Indiana Jones 1 and 2, I got a lot of requests for various other titles in the franchise. I've already also looked at the first LEGO Star Wars on the Game Boy Advance, and last time I looked at LEGO Friends on the 3DS, though admittedly, no one was actually asking for that one, and boy howdy was I not by the end of it either! Feel free to watch that video next if you haven't already. LEGO Harry Potter was a popular demand, and one I'll keep on my radar for a time when I've written up a long enough list of ways to mock and belittle Joanne's abysmally shallow worldview and shockingly amateurish worldbuilding. Even if she didn't have opinions on gender expression more archaic than her preferred usage of the word &quot;ejaculated,&quot; she had the unfettered opportunity of nigh-unlimited magic, and she made it canon that, prior to indoor plumbing, her wizards used to just poop on the floor. She had the literal excuse of altering reality by waving a stick around, and all that she could come up with was homies shidding theyselves. But I digress. The request that I retrospectively think I saw the most though, without actually going back and counting, is the third of the holy trinity of original franchises TT Games covered: LEGO Batman: The Video Game. Viewers, I am genuinely glad you asked, because LEGO Batman's Nintendo DS port is literally the one that got me interested in the handheld versions of these games in the first place. But first, let's turn back the clock to 2008 to make sure everyone has the appropriate context. Hot off the heels of LEGO Star Wars and LEGO Indiana Jones, TT Games pivoted over to the Caped Crusader himself. Unlike the prior games, which were each beholden to individual sources, LEGO Batman: The Video Game had a bit more freedom. It told an original story, or technically three, or technically even six depending on where you draw the lines for distinction, and drew inspiration from several sources. There was a hefty dose of Tim Burton's films, Batman: The Animated Series, and the comics, especially of the mid-2000s, a perhaps less hefty dose of the Schumacher films, and technically nothing I can specifically pinpoint from Batman Begins, the only Chris Nolan film they would have had access to during development, which I find interesting. It was deceptively atmospheric and moody in a very unique way for the franchise, even compared against its own direct sequels, despite being obviously safe for kids. Mostly. Half of the games centered around Batman and Robin foiling three specific villain team-ups, and the other half were the relevant villain levels, typically short-term prequels fusing the situations you defused as B&amp;R. Much like the games before, puzzles center around switching between various characters with unique abilities, though this one added in a key new gameplay feature for Batman and Robin, where they can switch abilities by changing specialty suits. That itself was more than just a gameplay thing. It was some low-key satire of how Batman toys are typically handled. You can sell more action figures if the same Batman has multiple, multi-colored variants that all contain a single different gadget named after said gadget's utility. The LEGO Batman sets of the day did not themselves actually do this, only including normal batsuits, but this toyetic self-awareness permeates so much of the game I have no doubt TT was giving Mattel the side-eye and snickering while designing that bit. In hindsight, and with the dust long settled, I'll even go so far as to say that this game may possibly even be the best of those original LEGO games. That might sound like it's coming from a biased source these days, since I've named my channel after a Batman villain and practically don't shut up about Batman stuff, my last Brief-ish Arkham episode was just over 90 minutes, which technically makes it qualify as a feature film by any time requirements, but that bias actually didn't exist as a kid playing these for the first time. Sure, I liked Batman then, too, but back then Batman was the franchise of three I had the least context for. At that point, I could count the non-Bionicle comics I owned on one hand, and my first exposure to lesser-known villains like Mad Hatter and Killer Moth was this game. I genuinely suspect there is a pipeline beginning with this game, through Arkham Asylum, into die-hard comics reading amongst people my age. I also suspect some of the people who went down this pipeline also realized that they were a woman some step along the way, but that's neither here nor there. Hell, one of the most small but fierce, passionate fan bases for a single, more obscure villain online belongs to Killer Moth, including me, and everyone already knows Lego Batman Killer Moth is peak Killer Moth. I'm getting off track. The design of all things here, gameplay, level, art, etc., was firing on all cylinders for this one, and it came at a time where TT had really gotten experienced at what they were doing with these, so it also benefited from a perfected formula in a way the earlier two franchises couldn't have. So in all the heyday of playing the shiny new console port, young Charlie eventually stumbled onto some wiki page or another for the game listing off the roster, and lo and behold, there were too many characters on there! And not just secret characters included in the customizer, there were a bunch of them! And they were exclusive to the Nintendo DS. We'll be getting into those in great detail later on, but that was the hook I needed to catch my interest. As I've said before, it's the differences that make these handheld ports worthwhile as their own little things, and you can't get much more blatantly different than a multitude of exclusive playable characters. Just to start, the same hiccups caused between playing natively and emulating which plagued LEGO Indy on the device as well will carry over here. It shouldn't be a surprise, as they were sequential releases, but I do think this game used the vertical dual screens just a little bit better. Gameplay-wise it was much the same, but aesthetically it excelled. The menu screen pans up the gothic tower Batman perches on very nicely, using that vertical space to excellent effect. And the vehicle levels we'll discuss later also function just a little more immersively and thoughtfully across both screens despite not being all that different. I think it's generally just a good idea to have physical copies of your games as much as possible these days, somewhat because Nintendo is looking for every excuse to kick down your door and introduce your kneecaps to their new suitor, blunt force trauma, but even without corporate overreach against game preservation, this is one I recommend everyone has for their DS collection because it just plays so nicely on the real thing. This was literally one of the first games I picked up when I finally owned my own DS Lite, alongside Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles, because self-harm takes many forms, and it is really just S-tier portable LEGO gaming. The visual design is going to have some initial noteworthy differences to make it function on the limited hardware. Continuing the caper of head sizes being inconsistent, LEGO Batman does improve on LEGO Indiana Jones by being slightly internally inconsistent. Some heads still appear large, some small, and some in between, but this just makes characters look a little more stylized and distinct. Intentional or not, most likely that latter one, that variance fits a comic book universe well. Less realistic artists already make weird faces happen... Look at that ugly bastard! Dear god he looks like a thumb! ...making this all feel far more appropriate for the game. The hubs between levels are probably the other most visually alternate portions you'll pick up on right from the start. The Batcave skirts past the changes pretty okay, looking the part well enough, if a little juniorized, and still having some dynamic elements like where you can go up and see just a little of Wayne Manor, but Arkham Asylum is sadly the more downgraded of the two, really just consisting of some visually redundant cell blocks and repetitive, grating sound bites of screaming. Otherwise though, the rougher edges and lower resolutions that come along with the Nintendo DS's graphical capabilities work just fine with the offbeat atmosphere of the title even better than they did for the rough and tumble feel of Indiana Jones. At one point, entering the art museum, there's a shot of Joker and Scarecrow just watching you for a few moments, which is effectively a little creepier because they're the lower poly version than the console version. The gameplay itself is where most of the weirdness lies. If you know the original game and what various characters can do there, you are going to be surprised repeatedly as most characters' tools and abilities do the Cupid Shuffle all over the roster. We'll obviously start with Batman and Robin. In the main game, sans suits, they both have grappling hooks and batarangs to start. Here, Batman has both by default and was also given a double jump, just because. Robin has completely lost his grappling hook, and despite being more classically acrobatic, he was not given a double jump. This is doubly weird because they've added in acrobatic parkour locations, which wouldn't be in the console games until Lego Batman 2, and he can use those. The short people tunnels from Star Wars and Indy actually pop up in this version, and despite not being any shorter than Batman, as Robin's legs do go all the way up, he can, in fact, use them too. Tightropes are also simplified. The main game had some characters able to balance atop with everyone else dangling under for minor specialty reasons, but here, these are locked to characters that don't go down. I acknowledge that these end up looking invisible here; I think it is a mild visual hiccup from the upscaling, as in my natural DS footage, they do appear normally. Their suits are also cut back and rearranged. Batman still has the explosive suit and a glide suit, both recolored, losing the heat protective suit and the sonic suit for a unique cold protective suit. Robin keeps his magnet suit, losing his tech suit, dive suit, and his sucking suit, but does get a chemical protective suit. Interestingly, unlike the console version, where your previous suit is available after you pick up the new suit, here you simply cannot change back. Also interestingly, free play doesn't give you the Batman and Robin suits in your roster like the console port does, and since Robin's magnetic walls are an exclusive suit ability, you will have to redo any relevant puzzles for those suit swappers first, and cannot just bypass the puzzle like free play otherwise allows. Ability omissions are widespread: the aforementioned glass breaking, fire protection, tech control, underwater diving, sucking up all the good stuff until you have the whole load, and the not-forementioned electric generators, kamikaze penguin drones, mind control, and the similar guard persuasion are all out the window. Batarangs are much more functionally simple. Lego Batman was the first of the Lego games where you could hold the button to pull up an aiming reticle, although weirdly only for batarangs and not guns. But here, they are a much simpler mid-range move with slight auto-aim that disarms guns, not dissimilar from Indy's whip in the prior game. They can also hit batarang specific targets; not gun targets, mind you. There are special targets only guns can hit. Guns cannot hit batarang targets either, so whatever you do, don't repeatedly make the mistake of mixing the two similar looking things up in the heat of the moment and then edit that footage into a video which you will upload before thousands of subscribers, lest you will just look like a dummy. A ton of villains abilities get shuffled around, and not always for obvious reasons. Two-Face, for example, gains bombs but lacks chemical resistance like he has in the bigger version, though that is kind of more logical. I'm not sure how getting an acid burn on his face lets him do the backstroke in radioactive goop in the first place. Several characters now have guns when they didn't previously, most egregiously, my boy Bane, a character who typically won't be shown firing anything smaller than a rocket launcher. But then, weirdly, Joker doesn't have a gun and instead has a razor joker card which operates like a batarang. Certain characters, like Scarecrow and Ivy, get ranged grenade type weapons too. Basically, even if you know the console game inside and out, you will not be able to predict a character's skills until you're playing as them for the first time, which certainly brings a feeling of novelty to proceedings. I am personally delighted that Catwoman keeps the whip mechanics from LEGO Indy's DS port, as though some developer 16 years ago knew that I'd appreciate the continuity. Also, Jesus Christ, I just realized LEGO Batman: The Video Game is legally old enough to drive now. There are also new access panels in this version, but they're pretty broad. Batman panels can be activated by anyone heroic, and vandalized versions can be activated by anyone villainous. In this setup, that covers everyone. There are no centrists here. These, thankfully, lack the minigames of many access panels in these handheld ports, presumably per their frequency. Spider-Man: Shattered Dimension's own Nintendo DS port showed just how quickly you can ruin an experience with a touchscreen minigame, so I was not complaining. There's also one new sort-of ability, which I found to be an interesting wrinkle. Throughout the levels, there will be other access panels in silver, gold, and blue, and access to them isn't locked to a character. You actually have to buy matching keys from the batcomputer, and they are hidden behind three red bricks, which you can find before having beaten all of the story mode levels, if you are playing thoroughly. It adds a fun sense of unpredictability: &quot;I just found a red brick! Will this be the next key?&quot; ...as well as the debate on spending studs now versus saving for the usual multipliers, as well as the delightful feeling that you're sequence-breaking to get stuff early, even though you're technically not. These panels sometimes just interact with objects in the environments to help you find a collectible, and sometimes even open up entire new rooms, though sometimes you'll use one and quickly realize you still have to wait until free play for an ability you don't have. Frickin' lil' tease. While these don't overhaul anything all that dramatically in the overall game scheme, they're a surprisingly fun addition, and an idea I think the LEGO series would be welcome to return to at some point. Once you've got your head wrapped around that, you're running around, playing levels in similar setups to the console game. Though like Indy before it, this version has completely unique level layouts and puzzles that merely pretend to be the same locales as the better-known version. This one also has a great sense of visual style for these places despite the weaker hardware. Joker's Amusement Park even gave me some mild madcap vibes, reminiscent of the original color scheme The Killing Joke possessed before the special anniversary edition recolored things. The levels aren't one-to-one though. Certain villains didn't get to be either boss fights or playable in story missions on console, which do get these opportunities here, as you'll see, but there is a flipside in that other villains are left out of the plots. Don't panic though, they aren't completely gone, they're just elsewhere. The Riddler plot is practically unchanged, which makes sense considering his plan is actually well crafted for each supporting villain to play a key or irreplaceable role, so TT Fusion really couldn't change anything if they still wanted proceedings to make sense. Penguin had to make budget cuts, probably due to the recession, so Man-Bat has been laid off and his zoo level does not appear. Instead, Batman and Robin gain a Bane boss level set on the docks. While it does eventually devolve mildly into a bullfight boss by the end, the worst kind of Bane boss fights, it starts off very strong, with Bane ambushing the two, using both his brain and his brawn, and shoving massive shipping containers around to contain and corral the heroes, so I'll call the whole thing a worthwhile experience. Joker also laid off Killer Moth. Probably not because of the economy, he's just a dick. And so instead of the electric plant, they go to the museum to fight Scarecrow for a proper on-foot boss level. He keeps pumping the room full of fear toxin which you have to pump out, fighting skeletonized thugs, leading to just a little bit of visual similarity to his encounters in Arkham Asylum, which wasn't released until the following year, making for a fun coincidence. The biggest change on the villain side allows Mad Hatter to be playable in story mode. These culminate into actually having a true hero/villain equivalent version of each level. Personally, I really like to see how certain hero levels, which happen chronologically later, will still show the results of the villains going through earlier, such as a strength handle wall missing in the bank level because Clayface had to use it in the villain version. Here's a strange blemish on what would have been a well-balanced use of the main cast: several villains are not added to your roster after you use them in story mode. Typically, these games unlock something permanently once playable in a level, but it's inconsistently not the case here. You still get some, but then not others, like Mr. Freeze. Vehicle levels correspond to each other, the console port, and the previous game in an interesting way, and on the whole are a marked improvement from Indy 1, just from some minor tweaks to various objectives and more striking visuals. They all keep the forward momentum style, dodging obstacles left and right, and function as a chase. Hero versions see the Batmobile, Batboat, and Batwing chasing the villains, and villain versions escalate a little in difficulty per being chased. Too many missteps in those in the level prematurely because the heroes caught up to you faster while you were losing, loser. Yet again, this is the area that most unambiguously works best on native hardware with the screen gap accounted for, and while I struggled less than before while emulating, I think it's just because I'm more used to it now and is probably not some massive difference between the titles. Tying all of these story content together with a nice little bow, LEGO Batman doesn't try to compress any cutscenes down like Indy, which technically wouldn't have worked with altered villain teams regardless, and instead opts for comic style cutscenes. Now, I mentioned when covering Marvel's Avengers that I'm not a fan of these when done poorly, but these are actually done extremely well here. Art is atmospheric and sharp, and frankly, it goes hard just about every time. As an experiment, I even posted a few frames to hard images on Reddit just to see what happened. I got 29 upvotes and nobody called me names, which, considering Reddit, is an unambiguous win. These also end up including some alterations, like Riddler getting violently smelted and pressed into the gold, or Catwoman's cat wearing a Catwoman mask, implicitly so you can't discover their secret identity. The level content actually doesn't even end here. There's a third version of a story mode beyond hero and villain, hidden away under minigames, and I genuinely recommend you don't miss this one. This is Villain Hunt. If you've played LEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga, these are similar to the Bounty Hunter missions there. You have a team with various abilities and have to locate each villain hidden away in one of these story levels within a time limit, roughly 4 to 7 minutes each. I will go a step further and say that I think these are actually even an improvement to the formula over the Bounter Hunty missions. Those times might sound generous, but they're actually very deliberately designed. You might be able to get the villain on your first go, but you will have to remember what details to ignore to progress into the level and make a lucky guess near the end on what to spend your time on, as none are found truly just at the end of any levels. I had some successes on the first go, but typically required a couple of attempts and got some in right under the wire. I don't always like speedrunning, but I love these. Your team consists of Batman and Robin, joined by exclusive heroes Huntress and Azrael, as well as a SWAT specialist, Alfred, Commissioner Gordon, and also port exclusive Detective Harvey Bullock. These actually end up covering all of the abilities quite well; Robin will still have to switch to the magnet suit, Alfred gains a gliding umbrella, Azrael has a double jump, super strength, and immunity to both toxins and the cold, and the SWAT specialist can place bombs and grapple. Weirdly, he also has a bazooka, but it still cannot destroy explosive bricks, and while it is the only one hit kill in the game, it still has the worst auto aim and will not be efficient to use. For combat purposes, I'd recommend using Gordon for fastest results, as he has a freaking pump action shotgun which takes down enemies in fewer hits than normal guns or melee and stuns enemies on first hit. This is a fun team, but several characters are irrelevant or redundant, most egregiously Batman, the titular character, as everything he can do even with suits is already available from the others. There's also an odd oversight in a couple of places. Sometimes, these use the villain version of levels, which means you'll get jumped by the cops, and while the GCPD is commonly shown being morally bankrupt and on villain payroll, it's not done for villains where that would make sense. We all know Manbat got laid off, he ain't bribing any cops right now. The villains hiding are the aforementioned Killer Moth and Man-Bat, left out of the story mode, Hush and Ra's al Ghul, who were only bonus characters in the console version, five port exclusive entries, which I am saving for the relevant segment, and the only returning story mode villain is Joker's tropical variant from the time he paralyzed Barbara Gordon with a gun. That's also precedented from the full game, not unique here, but it's still funny in a rated E10 game. Collectibles aren't too far from the expectations of the console version or the portable Indy games, but they are still worth talking about. Half of each unlockable model will be in the hero levels, with the other half villainously recolored minikits in the corresponding villain level, further expanding the shared continuity. Riddler also has his three tokens, similar to the treasure maps in Indy, which simply unlock the last minikit. While this disappointed me in those, I think it's in character for Riddler to just squeeze his way into credit for someone else's collectibles, considering I had to make fun of him doing the same thing in Arkham Asylum with the Spirit of Arkham engravings. There are also Joker cards, which unlock bios for various characters. Extras are still unlocked by the red bricks, and are as follows: regenerate hearts, fast build, one shot, which turns all melee, but not all guns, weirdly, into one-hit knockouts, invincibility, and score multipliers times 2, 4, 6, and 8, this time leaving out times 10. So, it's essentially what we saw with Dr. Jones. Yet again, that list is shortened by having to share red bricks with the new keys and separate minigame versions of vehicle levels. I know I'm just slapping a horse corpse around after several videos of these ports, but they easily could have stuck that stuff on the Riddler tokens to leave room for more extras. If I do have one complaint this time, it is the clunkier, weaker version of combat that keeps coming with handheld versions. Without the weapon pickups of Indy 1, it does lose that tension to perform well to remain more powerful. Ranged weapons still switch to melee far too easily based on enemy proximity, though regardless of distance your attacks are coming from, enemies all just take way too many hits. If they only took one or two hits, it would really make the system feel a lot less cumbersome. There is technically a system where stunning enemies first brings them down faster, but that's very inconsistent to pull off. Elite enemies, wearing environmental tanks with more powerful weapons, only exacerbate this, and in the villain levels, the SWAT teams come after you with rocket launchers and much better aim than when you're playing as them. Sure, I could see American cops escalate that hard if Batman villains existed in the real world. They're barely restrained enough to not do that to peaceful protesters and frankly would probably resort to napalm if even a low lister like Ten-Eyed Man existed, but it's still not the most fun. The main game also had certain characters with enough martial artistry or raw strength able to grapple and throw enemies around, but that feature is entirely missing here. If I have two complaints, it's that this version of the game requires a bit more grinding than portable Indy, making the score multipliers more expensive from the outset and delaying when in the game you start having the expanded roster if you play it economically. Look, I'll fess up. I used cheat codes to speed up progress after story mode this time so I could more efficiently get the footage I need to make this video. Lord knows I'm slow enough uploading on here, but I've played this port naturally before, and the difference between this and Indy 1 is tangible. Score multipliers start out costing double their equivalent here, with times 2 going from 500,000 to a million studs, and times 4 going from 1 to 2 mil, and it actually gets worse from there. Times 6 goes from 1.5 million to 4 million, which is more than double, and while the highest only doubles again at 3 to 6 million, remember, this is only times 8 instead of times 10 this time, giving less bang for your buck, or, uh, thud for your stud, I suppose. It really only drags on the worst for the first few, thanks to the nature of multiplication, of course, but it's strange they got the balance so wrong here when it typically plays out so perfectly in these games. I've saved the best for last. This cast is wildly varied from the main game roster, really giving the best justification for playing this version of the game too. There's so much new here, and I don't just mean &quot;well there's some unique goons,&quot; though there are those. If you're just here for some special goon action, you'll have your fun, I assure you. A few returning characters get unique depictions here. Ra's gets his suit now instead of his topless dueling look, and a sword instead of his escrima sticks. It's an inexplicably medieval castle sword, which feels like the least accurate option, and his grip on the tip of the hilt is peculiar, but it's cool to see the distinction regardless. Batgirl's cowl has striking yellow lenses now. Nightwing appears to have lost one of his escrima sticks as he just swings a single one around like a neanderthal with a club. Killer Moth, look, doesn't really appear to be at his peak here. I will give some points for dual-molded legs years before LEGO produced them for real, but look what they did to my beautiful boy. Several recurring characters get playable versions of their alter egos with the same abilities. Tim Drake, Dick Grayson, and Barbara Gordon, the same core bat-family from before, all get civilian versions here too, though they sadly switch to normal costume suit variants and cannot switch back to civvy-mode once in them. Scarecrow, Harley Quinn, and Catwoman too get their civilian looks. Editor Charlie. There's actually so many of these I missed one. Poison Ivy also gets her civilian look as Pamela Isley. Two-Face gets his pre-scarring Harvey Dent look, which admittedly juxtaposes against his abilities of dual guns and explosives. Perhaps this is one of those cases where he gets plastic surgery and solely the evil persona wins out. Some characters also get new costumed secondary looks. Batman gets a classic blue and gray, visually similar to the Silver Age with the specific bat sigil used. And as soon as you grab a suit, it's... also gone for the rest of the level. Genuine disappointment. Poison Ivy gets an alternate, less human-colored version, calling to mind The New Batman Adventures. Killer Moth gets his alternate, monstrous Teen Titans look. There's actually so many extra characters I missed two. Riddler also gets his classic suit variation, although in this case he has some nice red splashes on there. Very classy, don't know how I forgot that one. I know you guys are terribly surprised. As also mentioned, brand new characters abound. Azrael here is the Jean-Paul Valley version and has several abilities as listed earlier thanks to being superpowered while in his Azrael persona. Huntress has her ranged crossbow attacks as well as some bonuses like agility. There's Talia al Ghul, Batman's other villainous love interest, Ra's daughter, and mother to his son Damian, which accidentally got attributed to her non-con-ing Batman one time when Grant Morrison mistakenly thought she slipped him a roofie and then other people kept running with it and now it's in other continuities, and the whole thing makes me very uncomfortable. She too gets an inexplicable medieval sword. Lucius Fox, Batman's tech genius, appears, though he can do nothing. This is a real missed opportunity since he invented Batman and Robin's suits. I feel like he should be able to use any type of suit, just slap the extra bits on his normal outfit. Dr. Jeremiah Arkham, a recurring character who would eventually become the second Black Mask following this game's release, is a psychiatrist. With a gun! For those other villain hunt villains, Hugo Strange is a psychiatrist. With a gun! I'm starting to see why mental health care is so poor in Gotham. Their psychiatrists just keep whipping out guns! There's Firefly, who fire... glides, there's no flight in this game, remember. The Ventriloquist, who believes his puppet Scarface commands him to do crime, is funny because Scarface is literally just a scaled down minifigure too. Melee sees Arnold just slapping Scarface all over the place. Scarface is constantly clipping through stuff since animations don't typically account for anything permanently in a character's hand, and the first of any burst of shots strangely appears to emerge from the dummy's torso instead of his gun. The Ventriloquist's a bit of a mess. There's Black Mask, notorious gang lord who likes masks even though one got burned onto his face, and one time he made a woman eat her husband's eyeballs. That has nothing to do with this game, it's just a really fucked up fact that scarred me a little and now you're stuck with that knowledge too. Finally, and perhaps most shockingly, for those who didn't know the thing about Black Mask and the eyeballs, is Victor Zsasz, a serial killer who carves a scar tally mark into his flesh every time he murders someone with his knife before posing their body in lifelike positions. Based on what we can see here, he has at least 40 victims in this continuity, assuming there aren't more tallies hiding under his bangs or under his pants. They've also given him a grappling hook, in case you thought you could escape to high ground. Truly disturbing stuff. I know I've said it before, since the crux of these ports is always being able to resemble the main game while also doing enough differently to be complimentary experiences without just being redundant, and even bearing some strange hiccups along the way, LEGO Batman is excellent at hitting that balance. Much like Indy, I recommend you grab this one if you have a physical DS collection. And hey, if you like this kind of content, maybe consider subscribing, since the next time I cover one of these LEGO ports... [Dramatic, royalty-free Star Wars-esque music] Thanks as always to my Patreon supporters, including new supporter, Swordog! You too can join this list for as low as a dollar a month, though if you'd like to support without the long-term commitment. I've also put together a coffee, which turns out isn't pronounced &quot;ko-fi,&quot; just &quot;coffee,&quot; for one-time donations. And there's also a wish list of equipment which would help improve technical quality or efficiency in these videos. Though, at the end of the day, I am also more than glad for your support if all you're able to do is liking, commenting, subscribing, and bell icon-ing. Trust me, I just got hit by a hurricane in freaking Appalachia. I won't be judging anyone's expense priorities. I appreciate your support, however it is that you are able to give it. [Fart noises]