Everything goes well. You go first. Who are you? I will give you two choices now . The first is to send you to the west. The second is to tell me how to find Xiao Changsheng. There is no point in continuing this stalemate. Make a decision. I still don't agree with us. If you don't do it, others will do it. That's a drug. Are you going to destroy our Golden Entertainment Club? If you're afraid, don't join this industry. You're full, but brothers are still hungry. As long as I'm alive, do n't even think about it. Welcome to visit us next time. Everything you asked me to do has been done, brother. You have worked really hard for me these years. I have already thought about it. It is time for you to live a leisurely life. From today on, leave some things to Black Dragon and the others. I have already arranged for burial. Dad, please stop thinking and take good care of yourself. They all thought you were dead. If we want to survive, don't expose yourself. This is all I can do. Put your hands up, don't move. Do n't move. Stop, don't run. Stop, don't move. Stop, stop, chase. Stop, chase. You are tired of living here, aren't you? Who are you? Don't move. Catch him alive over there. Regarding the Golden Entertainment Club, there is only one important clue, the old monster, and you have messed it up. Director, I suspect that the old weirdo should have been killed. They have suspicions that Jinyu will kill people and silence them. You still have the nerve to say that they suspect the murderer escaped right under your noses. Next time something like this happens, just take off this skin. How about this? The shipment went well. This is a new product on the market that is better than ours. We have to keep pace with the times. We have to keep pace with the times and not fall behind. There is also a small thing: someone killed the old weirdo. The old weirdo has behaved himself these years. There are actually people plotting against him. His old monster was involved in many things. The police now suspect that we silenced the evidence and destroyed the evidence. The person who killed us wants to frame the blame on us. He is prepared to kill two birds with one stone. Who do you think instigated this incident? Since it was planned for a long time. It must be those old grievances. Say it to me. Cat, cat, cat, dog, dog, dog, bird, bird, bird, tiger, tiger, tiger. Okay, let's do this. Goodbye after class. Don't forget to do your homework. Who are you? My name is Iwaon Sen. Doctor, to you. Aren't you a teacher? I also teach you what the hell you are doing. No one in the village can read, so I also teach you what happened to my clothes. I closed my eyes and helped you change them. Where is this place? Manbang Village, why am I here? I came back from a medical visit yesterday. I saw you lying on the roadside, so I brought you back. Your leg was injured and the toxins were spreading. Did anyone else see you when you brought me back? I was looking for someone. It 's too late to help. It's too late. There's no one. You can't walk yet. This leg was injured before. It was injured a few years ago. It 's old and new. Rest. It's okay. Don't run around. You need to rest for at least a week. I'm going to make some medicine. I was just knocked over by you Look, I caught you and you're still running. And you, don't run. Look, I caught you. You're running too fast. You can't run anymore. Okay, let's play next time. Bye, bye, be safe. I thought you disappeared. I was injured. But it's okay now. Remember your identity. Don't associate with strangers casually. It will only harm you. I know he was the one who was chasing you by the river back then. But you can't kill him. Why? Because he was one of ours back then. He kicked you into the water That's why you can survive. In fact, he is your savior. Where is he now? He is responsible for the drug joint work in Jinyuhui, but he is loyal to me. Then the next step is that the two of them will appear at the same time tomorrow. What you have to do when the red snake returns. Just to follow her. They have a secret drug-making den. Where will Xiao Changsheng appear? Isn't this person loyal to you? Do n't you know where the drug-making den is? Xiao Changsheng is a very suspicious person. Only a few people around him know it. So you have to follow the red snake You are playing a big game of chess in Jianghu. When Xiao Changsheng killed your father, it seemed that there was a disagreement. In fact, he was deliberately creating differences for the purpose of dominating the family. I am alive today because I pretended to be stupid and was willing to do so. I've been marginalized and kicked out, but I know too many secrets and he won't let me go sooner or later. So when you saved me, you were actually doing it for yourself, right? We both have the same goals, so we shouldn't separate you and me. Welcome, captain. own brother Just save unnecessary procedures. The goods that have passed through my hands over the years have never been faulty. Brother Sheng trusts me so much. I can't let Brother Sheng down. Say hello to Brother Sheng for me. Everything goes well. You go first. Who are you? Who am I to give you two choices now? First, send you to the west. Second, tell me how to find Xiao Changsheng. Second, tell me how to find Xiao Changsheng. Dreaming. This is our base. It is very secret. Something happened over there, Red Snake. Being targeted Someone must have leaked the secret delivery location. Only Red Snake and the captain know it. Go find the captain in person and handle the matter. Is there surveillance? No witnesses? No. There are a few unclear wheel marks and wheel prints. Son, Chief , hello. How is the situation, Chief? We are still collecting evidence. Is there surveillance? No witnesses? No. There are a few unclear wheel marks. Chief, according to my latest judgment, the murderer is not Jin Yuhui. of There must be someone else. It is impossible for Jin Yuhui to kill his trusted general. [ __ ], when will your judgment be accurate? Director, do you know how dangerous it is to do this? I just asked you to follow her and I did n't let you do it. She was the one chasing her. My, she wants to kill me. That's because you exposed them. Not only did you fail to find their den, but you also implicated the captain. Now that the red snake is dead, people from the Jinyu Club will suspect the captain and then find us. Do you know how serious the consequences are? It's her. Come and die yourself Do I have to let her go? You messed up my plan. She killed my father, and now you are still talking about your plan. We have endured it for so many years and we still have a few days left. Isn't it bad? But I have already killed her. Brother Liang, the red snake is dead. You should be more careful in your actions recently. Understand, big brother, who said your behind-the-scenes instigation is Yuanliang. Yuanliang is Yuanliang. Understand how to pronounce this now. How to pronounce pear with me? How to pronounce banana, banana, apple, apple? Is there any problem? Don't you understand? I understand. I understand. How is your injury? Turn your face this way and that. How do you change the dressing? You disappeared without a word last time. I didn't expect to see you again. I was in a hurry last time. What can I do? I'm almost alive. I 'll be cured in a few days. How many more days will it take? Are you okay? I doubt you. You don't look like a doctor at all. So what do you think makes you look like a doctor? A doctor must have at least many years. Minimum medical experience He 's not as young as you. You're talking about a charlatan. Drink this bowl of medicine. What's this for you? Let you get better quickly. I studied medicine in college. The year I graduated, there was a plague in the village and many people died. My parents also passed away at that time. This place is very remote. Doctors are not willing to come. If the villagers get sick, they can only waste time and money. In the end, it is delayed. I like Chinese medicine. There are many rare medicinal materials here, so I am usually fine. I'm doing research here. The medicine you put on your legs is what I developed. Drink it. It's almost finished. You wake up. Did I sleep for a long time? You must be very tired. What are you doing? Just draw. It's nothing. Maybe you slept soundly. Only with you can I sleep so soundly, right? Teacher Yanwen, Doctor Yanwen, Teacher Yanwen, Teacher Yanwen, Doctor Yanwen, Doctor Yanwen, is Teacher Yanwen here? Come on, kids, come on, thank you, thank you Don't be in a hurry, don't rush, there is everything, everyone has it, let me go and take a look, okay, are you, Mr. Yanwen, there? They are all there, don't worry, two police officers, Mr. Yanwen, hello, hello, hello, Dr. Yanwen, hello. Hello Teacher Yanwen, hello, police officer, what's the matter? Teacher Yanwen, we are here this time to inform you that there has been a murder in the coconut forest nearby. You and the children must pay attention to safety. We are here for nothing, just a routine inspection. Check what homicide it is According to our preliminary judgment, the serial murder case is a female killer. There is a female killer in the teacher's room. There is a female in the teacher's room. Do n't touch her. I told you that I don't know her. I don't know her name. I don't know her origin. I don't know her. She is one of my patients. I have only seen her twice. I gave her a portrait after seeing her twice. Your student also said that you kissed. How do you explain, Mr. Yanwen, that you teach and save people? You are incompatible with a murderer. You are our local role model. We have always respected you. At this time, you must not be confused for a moment. The children and fellow villagers still need you. I told you that I don't know that girl. You are covering up and conniving. Director, please make sure that the person in the painting is the murderer first, and then accuse me of harboring and conniving, okay? Where is Yuanliang? The old guy is not here. He caught a woman and took her away. It's almost dawn. Lock her up and watch her carefully. Unexpectedly, I was bitten by him. I should have done it with him back then. Red Snake's death shows that our internal confidentiality work is very loopholes. If Yuanliang can't find us, there will be no peace for a day. What should I do with that woman? This sample is very close to the market. Now that new product is on, let's produce it. Brother Sheng, please excuse me and stay here for a while. I'll go over and kill her now. K k What's wrong? I'm dreaming. I'm not the boss. We've been here for several nights. I'm sleepy and tired. There's no suspicious person here. Go to his house and keep watch. Why is it you Yan Wen again? I'm telling you, if you don't reveal her whereabouts, we'll be living here today. You guys are breaking into a private house and exploding. Okay. Go over right away. There was a gun battle in Boss Sumai Town. When the female murderer showed up and killed Hongzhi, you should have thought that there would be a decision to kill him today. You are also involved. Of course, I support killing him with both hands. I don't like that he is so stubborn and delays everyone's money. If I keep him alive to this day, I will kill him with my own hands sooner or later. Besides, you don't know yet. His daughter is not dead. She was the one who dropped the bomb just now. You are such an old fool. If it kills you, you won't even know how to die. Damn it, you saved her, yes, I also trained her and then told her who her father-killing enemy is. We are despicable to each other. I have no grudge against you. It's just a coincidence. I also like to be the boss. Limo, look, I avenged you. It was a gun just now. Sound? For so many years, I have always regarded a thief as my father. You took advantage of me and punished me for my own sake. You were trained by me. I really can't bear to kill you, but I know you too well, so I can't keep you. I'm sorry.