[music] Well, I thought I covered all the executive but as always you're very knowledgeable, and haven't seen that video, I'd recommend you watch I wasn't going to talk about Jaguar because it while we're talking about other cars why not This is all the cars I missed [music] NSU were a West German executive car maker, Like Citroen they produced a highly aerodynamic car with an impressive 0.36 drag coefficient. And like the Cybertruck of its day. It had disc brakes on all at a time when synchromesh wasn't a given on was its 113hp (85 kW) Wankel rotary engine. But all this innovation was NSU's undoing. The and most of the company's limited resources went into leaving NSU on the rocks. They were purchased by to sell the RO 80 under the NSU badge, maybe so it Sales didn't improve in its native Germany, and were 1977 but as can be seen from this photo, they were When NSU was acquired by Volkswagen, they It was slightly smaller than the RO 80, but still in fact it would go up against the Audi 100. had launched just two years previously. So, both sold in this space, so it was a little surplus which happened around the time of the acquisition then it was cancelled. In the end the NSU K70 was but not as an NSU, it would have a first front engined, front wheel drive car. gearbox, the K70 wisely stuck with a conventional parts bin. It would become Volkswagen's even when the Passat replaced the 411 in In my last video I talked about Ford's and GM's Schuyler" of the American automotive "big three". &quot;Work, work, Angelica, work, work, Eliza, and Peggy!&quot; Chrysler had purchased a controlling stake Rootes' largest car was the Sceptre had been on sale for three years. The Sceptre was and was also a little cramped compared to an estate version in 1974 but sales were never in 1976 the Humber name was retired with it. the 1501. Like the Sceptre, it was a little just a 1.5L engine. What Chrysler needed sell across Europe. Both Rootes and Simca were that car might be. Chrysler shut down the on refining the British design that would launch who would go on to oversee the design of the it followed the American-inspired design language the Hillman Avenger that launched that same year. and available to buy in the UK in 1971, with a terrible, but it was damned by faint praise. cars like the all-conquering but much smaller Ford the Zodiac. Chrysler's marketing team also fell something of a problem as the Chrysler The car itself lacked some of the prestige features electric windows. It was a car to easily overlook it was forgettable. The 180 settled down to just recoup the investment cost. Production moved to Spain where it had modest Chrysler had attempted to import luxury cars The Chrysler Valiant was shown at the 1966 the same as an entry level Jaguar and didn't Chrysler persevered though. By 1970 they were offering the VG version, introduced, but they were still expensive their level of trim, and like the 180, Chrysler They were selling enough of them in the UK for the 1974 model year. The Valiant had a thirsty range of engines, the oil crisis weren't great, so imports Chrysler were also attempting to go the other A version of the Chrysler 180 made it to Australia Another car from the previous video, the Vauxhall Holden Commodore. Although Ford didn't bring the Granada to was used as a template for the 1979 Ford Falcon. Japanese cars were making a strong push into Unlike its competitors in Detroit, they weren't market - they pretty much shipped the same This meant the style took some getting used However, by 1970 Japan was producing some and these were brought to the UK. Some notable cars that are a little too small that was certainly being sold in the UK in Mazda introduced the "Luce" luxury saloon 1966, and by 1973 the updated version was Another update arrived in 1977, and each generation engine like the NSU RO 80, but Mazda were Nissan launched the third generation Cedric Datsun 240C. In some countries it was well appointed with gearbox and air conditioning, The best Datsun's brochure could call out aerial, plus metallic paint. But you can tell it was the 1970s - it included the front and one in the back - perfect It did have a reasonably powerful 2.4L 130hp to a 2.6L, but it didn't sell well in the UK. Customers there were just getting their heads to be known, fairly or unfairly, as cheap It's hard to sell a high-end executive saloon By 1974 Datsun were still selling the saloon It traded less on luxury and more on practicality, The 260C would be updated in 1975 with the American styling both inside and out. It now got power steering and braking, and The estate had a unique feature - an electrically the boot from the side. Another update appeared in 1979 and it was 6-cylinder engine, but although Brits experimented very few of its large saloons or estates were sold. The Datsun 260C's main competitor in Japan the UK around 1971, maybe not by aeroplane! Like the Datsun it was available as both a had more power than the 260C but the same Also like the Datsun, it was a mecca for smokers, a felt-lined holder for your cigarette box! It offered a few more features than the Datsun steering, central locking, a remote electronic The Crown 2600 Special Saloon - the highest for a UK spec car, as well as a cold box in In the days before cassettes caught on, Toyota This being the early 1970s, safety wasn't Toyota called out head restraints on the front seat belts weren't a standard feature on But then if you were doing all that smoking, There would be an update in 1974, and another remain American which might work in North German cars had styling that Brits wanted, as downmarket. Japanese cars certainly didn't have the He'd found Audi and was happy with the product He also never considered Jaguar, probably By 1970 they'd been rolled into British There was the E-Type of course, but as far a renamed Mark X but it was in its last year Jaguar's main executive saloon now was the was a very large and very expensive luxury cars I've talked about so far. Jaguar had until recently made smaller executive that had been replaced with the S-Type four and in fact the Mark 2 that remained in production There was also a high end version launched Given the age of the Mark 2, and the lack of these cars had ended by 1969, meaning all rested on the shoulders of that very large, Those hopes weren't misguided. The XJ6 was a good car, with a 2.8L straight new web of motorways criss-crossing the country. There was an upmarket version sold as the High end features like air conditioning and the usual Jaguar leather seats. It got better in 1972 with a V12 engine, the That was good enough to get A year later the XJ was given a facelift as At a time when Toyota were making seat belts interesting that the new Jaguar featured side of a rarity at the time. It would take another 6 years for the Series 3 Parent British Leyland had gone bankrupt in had gone into launching the replacement for The XJ was now over 10 years old and there It's easy to see that from the 20 page brochure The first 10 pages are spent waxing lyrically In 1973 Jaguar's American XJ6 brochure called luxury sedans ever to come across the seas But with little development, by the end of with a straight face. Jaguar's financial starvation meant the XJ stagnated, They would try to lean in to this by highlighting German rivals were moving ahead. In 1979 this was a concern, but throughout and louder until something had to give. But that is a story for another day. You may want to take a look at the Princess I talked about in the first video. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in