We've been speaking with top economists to better companies bottom lines. Today I'm speaking with Danielle DiMartino Booth. She's the CEO and founder of QI research, a global of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Thanks so much for joining us. It's great to be here today. Thank you for having me So what's the biggest risk to a company's bottom line I think it's how the bankruptcy cycle is gaining I'm not focused on my bottom line as much as I am on revenue's cash flow that really are the most at risk. You can't play a lot of accounting games with things This is how much cash flow the company's throwing off. This is our ability because of that cash flow to This is just really black and white area right now in So that's why they have to be even more cognizant of line. What I'm hearing is like, it's really about the money that book balanced. And that's the biggest risk is Yeah, that that is where we are, the run rate that summer, in terms of large companies, we say large, we more. But the run rate that we're seeing of chapter filings, uh, really is on par with the worst, darkest saw of the pandemic. What's keeping inflation so high? Is this higher for longer strategy coming from the Is that working. The Fed right now is in a really tight position when it public good. You know, there were increased costs in the health pandemic. Um, there was a shortage of semiconductors prices and used car prices to rise off, well off of trend after the pandemic hit. It is now more expensive to insure those cars. These are what we call idiosyncrasies. They're one off events that raise inflation, but over which the Federal Reserve has no control. It's the decision of regulatory bodies. So I think what you're saying is, like all these it's just one piece of the puzzle. It shouldn't be like, it's not the Fed's fault that So that might be too broad of a statement. At the very peak of the post-pandemic stimulus, the part that the fed was involved with, you know, the backed securities market. So the fed policy definitely had a hand in the run up But again, now we're watching the other side of that, lag time, 12, 18 months between what we're seeing now, price declines in in certain markets. And we're seeing apartment supply coming online at the We're seeing that level of supply start to manifest as long time before you see that come through the But the fed will probably still get the blame all But again, you know, when I was at the fed for almost policy is a blunt instrument. Do you see the fed lowering rates anytime soon? Do you think the election is changing their opinion? We have to take Federal Reserve officials at their it pertains to unexpected weakness in the job market. It doesn't matter how close to or far away from we happen to be, if it's appropriate, if there is that the fed will move, uh, and will not hesitate to I think Powell's been pretty clear about that, but most active fed chair in the history of the That's a matter of public record. He has been up to the hill and spoken to more House of Representatives in the US Senate than any of So he will definitely be feeling pressure coming from constituencies and the relationships that he's built Hill to be attentive to the weakening in the job And I think he'll he'll he'll be listening for that. Do you think there will be more layoffs in other And what industries do you think are the most at risk? We are indeed seeing a fanning out, a broadening of of in the job market. And this is where we get into the I overhired into the therefore I shrunk back to a regular sized into plain vanilla recession. And that's where we are right now. This is when your job losses begin at the lowest rungs attainment, income making capacity. And this is why Federal Reserve officials do need to now. If this is anything like what we saw in 2007, of a move up in the unemployment rate. It's kind of where we are right now. And then we turned a corner in early 2008. All of a sudden then it was 3/10 and 4/10 of a given month. And that's what happens when recession So then with all that said, are we actually in a I know we haven't declared one, but would you say landing? Nobody's talking about that soft landing Has that gone away? I think the soft landing chatter has, has dried up with We get quarterly, uh, revisions with a very long lag The most recent that we got showed that rather than 2023, third quarter, that there were, in fact, 192,000 But it does indeed look like we're in a situation be backdated by the National Bureau of Economic Their business cycle dating committee took exactly 366 recession that began in December of 2007. So because of all the noise introduced in the solid year again to be able to backdate the recession. But from all the evidence that we've seen, it does Will AI transform the way that companies do business? And what does that mean for workers and what does that Well, I think AI already has transformed the way that America, especially when companies are dealing with They're going to look to whatever the latest them really, uh, protect their profit margins. There's going to be a much happier ending to AI. It's going to revolutionize the efficiency of health But I would say in the nearest term, call it the next AI is going to be where it's at least going to feel to be wielded for the purpose of cutting costs. What impact do you see cryptocurrencies having on the So to me, cryptocurrencies are the best reflection, the reflection of what I learned all those years at the So to the extent that the cryptocurrency market is see buoyancy in the stock market, I really do think I'm a I'm a superficial economic, financial market Every single time the Federal Reserve has cut interest And that's always how it's worked. There's been no exceptions to that rule. So I don't think cryptocurrency is a reflection or a I think it is a reflection of people having continued portfolio is doing nicely. What's the future of globalization and is it declining? It depends on who the allies are of any given country. You have a coming of age in Mexico to our border and a educational attainment and a higher homeownership rate Maybe we made a mistake by becoming so deeply embedded But we know how globalization can work to help us be thereby build out our allied networks, possibly it's always been envisioned. But of course, if there are far right contingencies in want to put up trade barriers, it's not going to allies are. It really is going to come down to the countries. The fear, of course, with one far right elected, that it's going to be a potential wave of nationalism. And that means that that we could, in the than it otherwise would be. How does the ongoing war in Israel, and also the one in impacting companies bottom lines? It's a very company specific question, and whether or markets. We have seen that social strife and has its economic price. None of this is free, and a divided America will fall. And make no mistake about that. So I think that we have to be cognizant of the price that we will pay if we decide to be an When it comes to our allies, we have to always bear in begin with. We didn't pick and choose back then. It was liberty. Give me liberty or die. So I'll get off my soapbox. But I think we should be cognizant not just of direct war torn lands, but also how the war and other areas affects the social standing, the social fabric of the States, because there's a very real economic element