This video was made possible by Hover. Professionalize your web presence with a custom About 13 million times per day, someone clicks Some days later, all, or at least almost all, destination. But what happens in between? How does Amazon get a package to you? Well, it depends... a lot. In fact, Amazon's fulfillment system, their than that of almost any logistics company. It's far more complicated than that of UPS, company. In a counterintuitive way, this complicated component of the secret sauce that's driving They're striving to make the consumer experience So, back to the question: how does an Amazon It depends first on who's fulfilling the About one fourth of sales in the US are fulfilled Amazon are listed there by a third-party, FedEx, the postal service, or another consumer Amazon has nothing to do with the fulfillment the same as with any other e-commerce company. What's different is how the other three to you--the ones that are fulfilled directly The path that these take depends first on You see, Amazon's fulfillment centers are small sortable, large sortable, and large That first category, small sortable, represents These are items that are less than 12 by 16 in size, and about 25 pounds or 11 kilograms The next category, large sortable, is basically about 60 pounds or 27 kilograms. Now, the reason for the split between large of smaller items is much easier to automate--they and other tools that lower the company's reliance For example, Amazon uses a robot called the job of the company's pickers, the people worked. Previously, pickers would walk some 10 to cavernous rows of shelves. Now, at least in their most advanced fulfillment shelf, on which a required product is located, it. Essentially, rather than the picker going With these robots, one person can pick three the one hundred or so that was possible on Of course, fewer humans in the mix is good it receives for its treatment of workers, are expensive. The fulfillment process for larger items, so the company chooses to segment the two and distinct fulfillment system for larger However, in most, but not all cases, the fulfillment the same roof, even if they're operated Of course, the ideal scenario for Amazon would every single warehouse, but that's not realistic. Therefore, they use predictive modeling to likely to buy them. The US is far from homogeneous, so demand place. For example, in Miami, people probably aren't cars. Meanwhile, in Fargo, North Dakota, demand It's therefore no wonder why that, if you faster you can get an ice scraper on Amazon. That is Amazon's predictive stocking at While most examples of this system are far is simple: their algorithms put products closest only possible at this scale thanks to modern Of course, there's then that third category The distinction here is because Amazon likes packages as possible--unsurprisingly, fewer So, both the sortable categories include anything a single box. The largest items--say a 70 pound beanbag, fulfillment centers. These facilities are even less automated than workers who create custom boxes for odd-sized In Colorado, for example, this is a completely the sortable fulfillment center in Thornton. Now, some large items will go directly into XPO Logistics, which would deliver these bulky will continue on in Amazon's system. The portion of large non-sortable items not plus all the large and small sortable packages center. In Colorado, those two fulfillment centers center, located just minutes away from the This is a massive facility, almost half a around, dropping packages into different chutes, of zip codes. Now, not all the sortation centers are quite of packages going to roughly the same place. What happens next, though, once again, depends. A package heading to Miami, for example, would Miami, which itself would end up on a truck Houston, Baltimore, New York City, Connecticut This truck would then drive the 15 minutes Airport branded in "Prime Air" livery. Now, Amazon Air started in 2015 with its lease and has since grown to almost 70 aircraft--all However, the company recently announced the 767, bought from Delta and WestJet--meaning own aircraft. Those eastbound pallets would all be loaded departure time of 4:54 am. Now, anyone familiar with UPS or FedEx's is strange. If UPS was transporting this package to Miami, departed on an aircraft the previous night through the company's hub, then flown to FedEx would have done roughly the same, just That's because FedEx, UPS, and most other overnight delivery--they make a big chunk a package from one part of the US one day Amazon, meanwhile, built their Prime brand a package on a Monday and getting it on a While they've since strayed from the rigidness offer for an item not stocked at a local fulfillment to worry about being able to get a package That's why UPS and FedEx's planes take in the morning. So, that means it's about 9:00 am by the to Cincinnati airport each day. Through the morning hours, a dozen or so aircraft the company a major advantage. Cincinnati airport is also home to DHL's UPS, conducts its operations primarily overnight their aircraft from all around the world land Over the next few hours, packages and pallets which all tend to take off by 8:00 am. That means DHL only really uses their facility it for daytime use. While Amazon is building their own, larger gave them a huge head-start. So, each day, between 8:00 am and 4:00 pm, and sorting pallets from where they come from, Miami. That Miami flight takes off each weekday at before 5:00 pm eastern time. Now, not every Amazon Air itinerary looks In fact, while UPS and FedEx route almost and Memphis super-hubs, or through some of 20% of Amazon Air's flights go through their That's because, with the orientation towards more time. The more time means that, in order to service to fly to three destinations--Miami, Tampa, That's because Amazon's flights to these there's a whole twelve hours before packages the final destination. The entirety of Florida is within an eight-hour to all of Florida by only serving effectively Meanwhile, FedEx, for example, flies from Tallahassee, Tampa, and Palm Beach, then, on smaller aircraft to Key West and Marathon. So, in summary, in order to serve all of Florida, Amazon has to do. The required number of destinations for full two-day delivery, and this also means that via one main hub. Because they operate to far fewer destinations, from California, for example, exclusively while a given UPS or FedEx flight carries Amazon Air flight likely carries packages Therefore, Amazon Air has flights from all while a package from Denver would have to or Dallas or Chicago could fly direct. With a full hub-and-spoke strategy, like that loaded and unloaded from aircraft twice, and flights only require loading and unloading direct, which also reduces cost. This is how Amazon can transport packages The airplane, however, is just one of five from the Denver sortation center. For those that are to be delivered locally, one of four delivery stations for Denver. There, they'll be loaded into smaller delivery individuals contracted by Amazon, which will This is the one and only case in which an from start to finish, and it's generally urban and suburban areas. Only a slim majority of their overall package you leave major urban areas, things get a Now, a package heading outside the Denver destination within the greater Rockies region, operated semi-truck. For example, packages to the Aspen area, about leave at around 1:00 am each night. Early in the morning, however, at around 5:00 from there, they're fully transferred into final delivery. You see, in less populous areas, like the sense for Amazon to operate their own last-mile They need a certain amount of scale for that least right now, that scale is only possible Therefore, they need alternatives for smaller is more often than not the USPS. That's because the postal service charges Amazon transports the packages to the local While exact numbers aren't publicly known, about $2 per package for last-mile delivery--about for the same service. After all, the USPS services every address the USPS is going there anyways. That's why for smaller places that still towns and cities, USPS delivery is often the But then there's that next step down--the Everything that can't be cheaply delivered destined for low-density areas where you couldn't office, or because of capacity or speed reasons, Right now, it's believed that about 20% UPS. In Colorado, a package destined for the most Miguel County, for example, would take this It would cost Amazon far more, and they'd items, but it's what's required for them US quickly. No matter which of these routes a package the same--UPS, the USPS, or Amazon itself after a few days of travel across the US. It's a very simple process from a consumer incredibly complex. The complexity is what's needed, though, is to get anything to your door quickly and The core of Amazon, their competitive advantage, experts believe that the company will start in the coming years. They believe that they've perfected their on UPS and FedEx. Of course, Amazon still has competitors, which as ever. Target, for example, has been able to build completely different means--ones that are They've essentially turned each of their fulfillment center. They send employees out into the aisles who That means that their packages never have take advantage of cheap and quick ground shipping providers. Some 80% of the company's orders are fulfilled also adopting this direct-from-store fulfillment So far, though, Amazon believes in their system making moves to further expand the system they recently opened their first air hub in online in November, 2020. UPS, FedEx, and the other major consumer delivery big a threat Amazon poses to them. Amazon has managed to build a 21st-century and technologies, and, of course, part of dominance, but most is because Amazon is innovating The way FedEx and UPS move packages today but Amazon's system is only possible through a massive, complex, and convoluted system. This is all to say: if you're worried about for the world, be worried, because they're What Amazon's rise proves more than anything main street. Therefore, just as you'd be concerned with you should be concerned about how your web Now, in the case of email, having a non-custom sign--it works, but it's not pretty. That's why you'll notice that most professionals ends in something like @wendover.productions. That's a domain that I bought through Hover, domain extensions that let you go way behind After getting that domain, it took about two myself and everyone else who works on the I can't count the number of times when someone as that sounds, and so whether you run a business, it's worth getting a custom one with Hover. So, head to hover.com/Wendover to get 10% or email address, and you'll be supporting