In this video we're going to examine rhythms pioneers of electronic music. And you know what that means. I need to put on a red shirt... Speak with ein very heavy German accent - ja Wunderbar! (The Intern) Yeah... we're not going to do that. Ugh. Okay But you're going to accompany me on synthesizers. I'll take that as a yes. Hello everyone, this is... We start our journey in 1974 with &quot;Autobahn&quot;. On this album Kraftwerk started to leave their the acoustic drums in favour of artificial In his book &quot;I was a Robot&quot;, Wolfgang Flur how he and Florian Schneider made their own They had one of these preset rhythm machines And while there were buttons on there to trigger the DRM-1 - that's not really comfortable So instead they opened up the thing and rewired a series of metal discs. That works pretty much like this Stylophone: a metal pad, a circuit is closed and the corresponding The downside is that this is an on or off or loudness variation from this. So this already gives us two important ingredients to stay the hell away from velocities and (The Intern) Especially German accents! Right. And we need a drum machine with really dusty The TT-78 is a relatively new drum machine, CR-78. Its sonic character should be similar enough give it a try. Mmmh - bone-dry and dusty. Lovely. Let's program the main rhythm for &quot;Autobahn&quot;. I'll use the Deluge as a sequencer though. This way you'll have a better overview of Kick... Snare... And that's it. Except for one tiny little detail: Autobahn And that's actually pretty unusual for Kraftwerk The swing only affects this single Snare hit an even step. Makes the rhythm a lot more bouncy and cheerful, Can't have that if you want to be a cold hearted There's even a tiny bit of variation: Occasionally Oh and what's really fun: There's an upbeat a motor. While the main rhythm feels pretty lighthearted, up the pace. If you want to stay within the subject of on the gas pedal. Add some noisy Hi-Hats... Delay... And a wild sound collage of synthesizers That's a pretty elaborate drum track compared By the way, you can find the transcriptions lots more on our Patreon. 1975's &quot;Radio-Activity&quot;. Ooh, ambiguous title alert: The songs are or the atomic age (Radioactivity). Get it? And Kraftwerk means &quot;power plant&quot; in German. It's all coming together. Some of Kraftwerk's percussion sounds were or modified rhythm machines. I don't want to build every sound from scratch drum synthesizer with plenty of parameters We actually only need 8 steps for &quot;Radioactivity&quot;. Very economic. It starts with a simple four on the floor Pan it all the way to the right. This one is removed right before the intro Here's where things get interesting. That right kick now always plays on the first Kick drum that's panned all the way to the Feels a bit like a beating heart. The Hi-Hat is panned hard left and the Cymbal In the middle of the song a morse code is That's also when the drums get busier. Fill up the left Kick and the Hi-Hats... and The year is 1977. Since making an album about the Autobahn - Germany's not tackle an even larger scale transportation of express trains. This is a fun one. Trans-Europe Express consists of two separate The first one is made out of three noisy, Essentially these are just noise generators We need a short noisy sound... another one that's slightly brighter... and You probably already noticed it, but this Okay, more like a steam train and not like And I guess that makes it official: Kraftwerk Musical Ono-mato-poe... yah. Onomato-po-ey-ah. Onomatopee-a. That can't be right. Oh, it is? Musical Onomatopoeia. It's when music imitates or mimics a sound. Like a starting motor, car horns - or a train. Great. Now let's add the second rhythm on top of Kick and Snare. And that's it. This goes on for the entire rest of the song. Like a veeery long train ride. But wait... Trans-Europe Express has something we could Breaks and fills are pretty rare in Kraftwerk If you do find them, they are incredibly restrained Kraftwerk drummer Wolfgang Flur called this He says flashy complicated drums were never lack in formal training. And this became part of Kraftwerk's signature elements of the song. By the way: This steam train drum pattern on the album. That's not only minimalism, but also minimal Very nice. Speaking of minimalism: In that regard the It's just one percussive sound repeating hypnotically Sounds like slow footsteps in a big hall. Simple, yet effective. Could be a needle impulse sent through a spring or maybe even someone banging on reverb springs. 1978's &quot;The Man-Machine&quot; is often called Kraftwerk's By now they had perfected their melody driven According to Kraftwerk member Karl Bartos able to sync the drums with the sequencer. Finally, the human element is out of the equation. Sequenced drums for everyone! &quot;The Model&quot; is one of the best examples of Just Kick and Snare. Repeat for four bars and at the end of the On special occasions make that three Snare It should come as no surprise to you that all classic Kraftwerk songs have in common. It's one of the defining characteristics of or even the lyrics. As long as it serves the song, &quot;Less is more&quot; And there's no arguing that these mechanical well together. On &quot;The Man-Machine&quot; Kraftwerk obviously had On some tracks the bassline is so percussive the drums. They did this by dialing in very snappy filter Kraftwerk used a Minimoog for most of their That one gets snappy enough on its own, but layer some clicks on top of the bass notes. You can hear this kind of bassline on &quot;Spacelab&quot; Let's quickly whip up the drums. Again just Kick and Snare, that's it. Watch me program a few variations during the song. How can you possibly follow up an album like After an unusually long time of three years, - a concept album about our modern computerized There are a few gems on here, among them one It's really hard to describe what the appeal musician Bjork put it best when she said: very very warm.&quot; Let's build the main rhythm of &quot;Computer Love&quot;. Next is a nice Open and Closed Hi-Hat pattern. And one final touch at the end: Claves and Now we just have to add some variation to Later the rhythm gets busier and transitions That's also when the lead synth playfully the first half of the track. Let's try an experiment. What if we play this exact same rhythm with Reminds you a bit of the old electro classics Minus the cowbell of course. And that's actually not a coincidence. Afrika Bambaata said he wanted to make music &quot;Planet Rock&quot; was released the year after features a sample of Kraftwerk's &quot;Trans-Europe It's the same with The Egyptian Lover's &quot;Egypt Egypt&quot;: The intro samples Kraftwerk's &quot;Tour de France&quot;... and the rhythm sounds like it - including the laser clicky sync trigger And let's be honest, &quot;Numbers&quot; with its detuned Aphex Twin song from the Syro era. And listen to this... Really, Phil? Kraftwerk had a huge impact on electronic whenever musicians talk about their influences. Just recently I watched an interview with discussed their first memories of hip-hop What I really love about Kraftwerk is how are unapologetically synthetic. They never try to conceal the fact that the Some of these could even be straight out of Come on, you didn't think we were going to A big shoutout to all of our Patrons. Thanks to your support, we can keep making