Today, we are playing on the full standard combo. so weird. [laughs] Everyone's Yoshi Teddy Buggy. game, and I'm just Mario standard cart. There's thing. Oh, I'm off the edge. Okay, well then grab a bunch of coins. Okay, now I can start game, you know just bag, just bag and you'll be huge shortcut, right back in it. Alright, I'm another item set coming up real soon, so I'm gonna that star could hit me. Alright, and we're gonna in it because Mario Kart's just stupid sometimes. use this mushroom. I took a terrible alignment. I slows you down so much. Woah, okay, let's use that but getting back up to speed was probably more shell. Get me out of this glider! Oh my! [laughs] good. Went into the grass, didn't have to use that way! Just have to look out for snipes now. Oooh, thing I could have done at the start. Thank you this race. This combo is unironically good. Like, out that first- okay, I probably did. That first the thing is, I can win that race legitimately. Wiggler, which by the way is not optimal anymore balance patch. That's what you get for trying to Has worse stats than this, right? Mario standard And what I mean by that is, we're basically I can't remember, it has the same of one and of the only two important stats in this game. combo is unironically good. The slowest combo is combo is good because you can just bag. Woah, ended up in first after this. Also, I got shocked you got a single item box. It's over for you. with the shortcut. [laughs] Wow, I feel like I'm this is a really good combo. Someone said in &quot;Oh, you got Singapore Speedway. You never get get it all the time. Like, that commenter spoke the funny thing is, that commenter wasn't even but I had gotten Singapore Speedway before with I just get Singapore Speedway all the time. It's feel like there isn't that much to do on it, which feel like that has to do with the Mario Kart Tour tracks are like this is because, what I mean by not a lot of alternate paths, you just follow walls on the side. Like, it's all the same thing, Mario Kart Tour is. In Mario Kart 2, where you know about, or maybe something similar to smart whole time. Anyway, this combo is great. [laughs] are great because this game is very balanced. And is because speed and mini turbo are nearly equally way that the stats for most vehicles and parts turbo, when you add them up, you end up at about that speed and mini turbo are worth the same similar speed and mini turbo sum, then that means Okay, we're going- that was so stupid. I was gonna I realized that's never gonna work, that goes great! Because if you have a slow combo, well, because speed and mini turbo tend to add up to the mini turbo stat actually helps you go faster than you're gonna do great if you have a slow combo. oh, then you should be going slower as well, and be good? Well, it's because when you use speed use your speed stat, and you don't really use mini actually really, really good. And so, like, if Mario standard everything, then this is still good that if you're front running and you get hit with that you can still kind of bag. But you don't which is why having stats closer to the middle um it's kind of hard to bag on a track that this is- I mean, this track has an ending one of the worst shortcuts in the game. It saves you're using a mushroom, not because you're taking great. Protect me! Nooo, someone dodging a bullet. great invincibility stat. One item? Nooo, it's and it's so hard to get a double item box there. decent spot, fifth place, that's great after what I'm gaining a lot of VR. It's just too many Yoshis just Yoshi again. That's Yoshi in disguise. That's basically a reskin of Waluigi Wiggler [laughs] geez this is- there's a red shell, I just got higher VR rooms is a lot more chaotic in its own but they're definitely closer to you at all times in the lower-level rooms, people tend to have over the place. Okay, boomerang. [Music] Oh, I got phasing through my boomerang? Let's give it one Yoshi got him. Get that Daisy out of here. Okay, We're gonna let them glider vector pass me. Yep. that one fireball correction? Oh, that was We're in third place. Okay, there's a little more be a bit safer now. I'm gonna go for this shortcut I made it onto the ramp with no item. That was Nope, person behind me has a mushroom. Let's go, Just enough, just enough to dodge a red shell. first place. I don't even know how that happened. dodge the plant. Oh, the boomerang! It's not over I had a lot of distance there. Man, I'm glad that starting in first place, where Mario deserves to just being followed by a bunch of Yoshis, this bump me into the crates. This is- whatever, item! Woah that Yoshi teleported. [Music] Thank can get this item. Yes, oooh that almost trailed here for coins. I've never- okay, I didn't get the aware of that existence of that alternate path, any of those coins. I'm going- I'm taking all the and they're all pretty useless. Oh, that way. Hopefully, some defense here, but I have so I don't have to worry about the trail- oh. though. Often, I use my mushroom just to gain some fire flowers, boomerangs, green shells, they're you get hit a lot in this game, often you have to before something could even hit you. So yeah, I anything in particular, but because everyone else hit. So that is the advantage of defensive defensive play to help you win. Sometimes all the but sometimes it does. And I have a coin to hide now I don't have a bomb. Uh, I should go right you're getting blue shelled, Idiot. [laughs] There's nothing you can do about that. I played the standard cart, I don't know what everyone's be good. Until I knew its stats, I never expected or anyone probably designs a game is the most reward you for good play, but not necessarily be you have to, like, there's probably some sort bit more. Which is why in time trials a lot of because that's back when they were the only ones even though Nintendo, I guess, didn't expect it to it is the best stat in the game. In reality, when then, you did want a more balanced combo with comebacks. So even if you're the best in the world Karted sometimes and ending up in the back of the me, so I couldn't even slow down to try and get noticed it way too late. Okay, thank you for your yes! To make a careful maneuver that I'm getting but it was even better! [laughs] Okay, I'm gonna- right? So I'm just gonna toss this right here. blue shell, what? Why is it- wait, since my position counter. This person is not getting hit! What? Don't take this shortcut. I messed up that was my fault. I should have gotten second shortcut properly and don't get second. Mario Kart is what I mean. We got Singapore Speedway again, 200cc? [laughs] I always see Singapore Speedway place, same as last time. If I was 10 years old you the first thing I do after loading up this Partially because I think that's the default thing I didn't have a brain. I couldn't think for time, I picked Mario and Luigi, and I went in but I mean the cart that is for Mario. And when I did not go Mario standard. I went Mario B for the game. So, yeah, I did not really have picked this combo if I was 10 years old right now. and I feel like, I feel like you typically want to okay, I found what the actual best combo is,' which is awesome! It allows you to express also express yourself in the combo that you pick. is kind of only one viable combo. I want those more ways you can express yourself there as well a lot. Obviously, I'm not saying there's nothing balanced. But in a game that's more balanced, it and this lets you capitalize on your playstyle. speed. If you like front running and mini-turbos just pick lower speed. And I love that about this were bad combos in this game. I think they made it bad because that would be really funny. Like, this of extra parts and characters that are really, worse. You don't have to play them, but if you do, it, the irony in me talking about how great it is play Mario standard cart. Like, yeah, this protagonist of my life. I'm very, very normal, but at it [laughs] because like when I say this is a ranked all the combos, you would put this one very probably be like way above average, but it's not are good. Swap any of these parts with anything actually are not a lot of combos that have very, a thumbnail like this. Mario standard everything and that is King Boo Pipe Frame with the Wario is better than this one. It's better in like every but it has no, no same mini-turbo, same speed, but like, yeah, this combo for how good it is, it's you would never, ever, ever use this combo. the same but better. And also, that was horrible fair. This game's so unfair! Nah, it was fair. At shell instead of talking about King Boo like cart. What happened to you at the start? [laughs] that would be nice. Luigi and Mario standard it's interesting, in this game, they gave Luigi, you see in the intro and everything is Mach 8 and deal with that. If there's like a lore reason for thank you Yoshi for bumping me out of that line. on in my life at that particular moment was those Oh, I'm in fourth place, this is good. Can't a line a little bit. Woah, I don't know where the that tight,that's a really good bullet section, but chaining right here would put me in such a bad Don't want either of these items. Nooo! I just- to me so many times today. I lose my item at the me a mushroom boost. Nice! I love when the chaos, is just mushrooms. [laughs] You love to see it. I'm gonna go here for some coins. I didn't get defenses for now, but I can recover with this Yep, I'm stupid. I'm actually stupid. I should wide for items. [Music] What are you supposed to you supposed to do in that case? I need a miracle right now for no reason! Beat the Luigi standard I beat the Luigi. Mario has to- Yes! There we those two are using the same combo as well. We carts. What is going on in this room? It's- we're right. I just need to- I just need to stay away just kidding. It doesn't matter. Stay to the side. hit you. People just getting hit out here. Is that that's gonna hit me! No, it didn't. I dodged it. Never been done before. [Music] Nooo did you knew. I tried and but then bonking into the wall This is- this is not going well anymore. These for safety. Okay, get the item. Oh, good items! like a... There were a couple frames there where lot and not used and it got stolen. The boo is left except the one 65,000 player who's just been as well, but I need to beat this player. This room Oh, I think someone switched off of Luigi [laughs] Taking out that player for being 65,000. I don't worse. I need their results to be bad. Woah! Okay, Oh, Luigi! My own brother, thank you. [laughs] that 65,000 and Blue Yoshi is way in the back, but show up at the front again and I'm not gonna be this moment. I get the orange mini-turbo thanks uh, red shells back there. [Music] Okay, it way I I get all these triple mushrooms out and so much for that shortcut and now we have a I'm so far behind! Okay. I mean this could at the next set and this red shell doesn't find a me? I mean I know a green shell. I mean how did nooo! That was my fault. I hit Luigi first. I grew instantly. [laughs] That car jumping over I lost to Luigi. That's it. I have no choice, there's not even that many players in this room so That's the 65,000 player. That one rose is so far far back. Oh, this is nice! [laughs] That was so getting ridiculous at this point. I'm gonna hold eight players? It's so unlikely to get a shock in Blue Yoshi in the bullet. Come on. I'm not doing hit them right after they get their item. [laughs] that they dropped. Oh, let's go! And steal their Blue Yoshi. And do a little bullet extending. All this is good for me [Music] You serious? It didn't I think I did it. Blue Yoshi thinks he and win. Nuh-uh. Actually, I kind of want a first race. [laughs] Okay, if I get defense here, I'm wow. Blue Yoshi went past me for a split second that draft? Let's get this coin before them I just want to be in front of them actually blu- I don't even care what happens to anybody to trying very hard and also having a very low I like try to charge a mini turbo to a level that Blue Yoshi's life difficult. Take their VR. I mean I need to attack the person with the most VR VR. I can never literally never get a trick. Tell a trickable region. Item lag, are you serious? me. It's the same thing. [Music] [sighs] Okay, a Boo. Okay, okay, maybe I can steal the Blue think I got the star. Yes! Okay, this is good. so I do want an item here. [gasps] Goodbye I think, so I can still take this shortcut here. good. Just make sure I don't get hit by that. Yes, item here [Music] even two red shells, and I win! There's nothing. Four red shells, I think I'm game wins,&quot; and then just keeps saying that every