This is the Ascent Milwaukee. Part of it. I have to move my camera back. This building's 284 feet high, 25 stories, it looks like a typical,luxury with prop wine and art. But above the demonstration bed and and wood beams... and wood columns. They're all structural. That's because when I visited... Was that a cool zipper sound? Ascent Milwaukee was finishing construction. When I tell someone I'm working on they're very surprised to hear that How does a building, with wood slabs and beams It turns out that changing materials Here's an elegant demonstration of A lot of big buildings are built and PT concrete slab: the PT stands for Basically the steel reinforces the concrete and PT Slabs are strong relatively easy to build and get often pretty affordable and, maybe most importantly, both to builders and regulators. But they're not very pretty and they can require a lot of energy Mass Timber uses, well... My name is Ricky McClain. I'm a senior technical director with Woodworks. One of the things that the Woodworks that are actually being done with mass timber. In 2013, there were say 20-25 projects. Whereas now, we're tracking about So in terms of overall number of projects it's still a small percentage but it has been growing significantly. The common way that I think of it is like So for columns and beams it's most often a product called There's adhesive between each layer Sides are planed, so a nice smooth surface. And so that's the gluelam. Beam, two-bys, and columns are the exact same. So the panels, the horizontal panels you can kind of think of that Cross laminated timber, CLT, is where you're taking again two bys flat, another layer of two bys flat, but rotated So you're creating panels that are Mass timber is strong, both because wood is a renewable material it earns builders environmental credits better -- or at least different looking and arguably better against some It's also hard to get and way less familiar to builders But these materials are more than They can change the process of for everybody that makes a building This started as a real estate project, The driver was aesthetics. At the time, we didn't know much more than that. It was just a... "Isn't it amazing that you can have and the structure is exposed." From that one decision, a lot of things The whole process is different. The insurance is different, the financing. And then you start getting into construction and the planning of the building is because you're planning so much of Right? Planning and designing. The biggest design impact might be the BIM which takes design and places it at A BIM is a "Building Information Model" Imagine a blueprint that's 3D We had 60 plus pre-construction meetings. That experience right away tells We had to do that because... whether the mass timber panels were or in the United States, it doesn't matter. They're being made at the factory. So if something's wrong, It was more intense for us. So you're basically building what's called And in the case of timber, because by the end they had literally modeled You always want to get it right or as a design team in general but normally if there's an issue, or you can go to the shop or This one, it would've been a to get another beam shipped over site. So it really was critical, which was why And because mass timber is so new you have to spend time persuading regulators There's actually no sound here. But this is a mass timber building For years, the USDA's Forest Products Lab has been testing mass timber like cross-laminated timber in a building It performed well. They also test columns, where the that protects a column's stability. For Ascent, regulators wanted them to test if the columns could hold up to So they burned those too. We did nine columns total of three We instrumented them with thermocouples. We lifted the columns out of the furnace It worked: the columns were fire And we looked at different species because the different species are a little bit Char has been studied for hundreds of years. In general, people know how wood chars. Concrete and steel can be hurt by fire but they're familiar in the United States. That's why, if you look at this video, like many mass timber structures, The parking garage is concrete and two concrete cores helped get the project Once design is over, sourcing begins. You go from buying concrete at Home Depot You're moving these absolutely massive pieces And it's trains, planes, automobiles. You know, you're always trying to what's the most effective way, you know, all of these items. Taylor Cabot's a project manager at Timberlab which helps design and coordinate Timber manufacturing is still and Ascent's timber comes from Austria, which means they had to get every Imagine you're on the Oregon Trail and you have glass panes for your window with like hay around it. And it's like if you break that glass pane, We are moving things across the country. It can be replaced, but you're These materials then affect the engineering. It's not like a steel or a concrete building what what kind of steel I pick or what The owner really likes this So some of the columns at the base, are a higher grade or they're But that's also more expensive. So as you go up, you sort of use as it becomes more cost effective. Traditional construction also a boat getting stuck in the Suez Canal Our materials didn't go through but 2 million containers were then they were either stuck literally in the Finding a container was like gold. I would be driving in my city and seeing a container sitting in a yard, All those design and sourcing changes mean building with mass timber Our construction workers here, they would and their wives would say &quot;Huh, doesn't even look like &quot;You're so clean.&quot; And they love that because with all this silica dust from concrete You're just working with with wood and you're really not cutting much, So you're going home clean. Stuff like welding just doesn't happen because it'd be a fire hazard. So, screwdrivers become way more important. We would have upwards of 64 16 inch screws. We were using just cordless We'd only get maybe five or six of those We had a pretty substantial battery changing as we're installing these screws. So we would have to field install This is a glue lam column. Below our topping we have our CLT plank that run into the column. So one column may have as much as 64 Because of this, a lot of things change. While it might take 10 days to complete it could take only 5, using mass timber. There's less skilled labor available. There's this inherent push to to fully And so it really helps reduce labor force that come out to site as well. And it's this kind of huge shift in we don't need 100 guys to build a building. You know, we might need 30. Or we don't need to bring a bunch and create a bunch of waste We can do all that work in factories and have it kind of erect in Lincoln log And that goes back to the original They're the product of a total rethinking One of my favorite just anecdotes was that when we framed the first deck of timber &quot;What am I sensing?&quot; And I laid down on the deck because Right? It's just raw wood. And I lay down and they look at me &quot;What is wrong with you and And I said, &quot;Guys, smell it.&quot; &quot;It smells like popsicle sticks.&quot; And they're like, &quot;You're insane!&quot; And they get down and they're like &quot;Oh, my God, it smells like popsicle sticks.&quot;