Sabata! Now what do you do? And there isn't any time for you to reload. Let me have your gun. The grand finale of the show. Ladies and gentlemen, Wheee Come one, come all Ladies and gentlemen, come back again. Tell your friends can't afford to miss Anyone who can hold a gun is eligible Make your reservations now for the next show, Up to six contestants will be permitted Don't pass up this chance to show your skills. The burned cartridges, decorated with a souvenir you can wear proudly Extraordinary. How do you do it? - Would you like to try one yourself? Step right up, gentlemen Anyone who manages to beat our champion This way, gentlemen Don't pass up the chance to match your skill Citizens of Hobsonville, here's your opportunity Prove to yourself what a steady hand you have, what a good eye, Hey, watch it, will you? Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Sabata Sabata The fastest gun in the West I said the fastest gun in the West Nine-fingered man. Four-barrelled derringer Sabata is the o n I y invincible man Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom So You've got your life if le lets you go - Sabata! Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom If you wanna get money And if you want a good life Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom If you wanna get money - If you wanna get rich - If you want a good life Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Sabata The fastest gun in the West Four-barrelled derringer He's the o n I y invincible man Sabata Sabata - Major. Lieutenant. Why did you run off? I didn't want you to be upset. I mean, when I saw my superior officer - There are worse places to be. Nothing. - You remember this? The medal I won in the war. Lost it at poker, remember? No more poker. I'm finished with that game. Even if three years are passed, I've begun saving, - I give you my word. - Where can I find you? I got a friend, runs a gambling house. You picked the worst place. Hobsonville doesn't have any money to spare. 20, black. Number 20 wins the round. There you are. Lieutenant, this town is rotten. It's really rotten. You're winning, Major. - I would like to talk to you. Before you break the bank. Place your bets. Place your bets, The yellow goes on number eight. Very well. Place your bets down, everybody. - You're a rich man. If you play with a magnet in your cigar case, You'll do even better there. You see, Major, here in Hobsonville, Here. I pried this magnet You mean you won without any help? What's lucky about it? You should be a sleight-of-hand artist. They have one working at the circus. His name is Pickles. - Partners? Don't worry. Only until you pay back - Where do I change these, with the cashier? - How come there are so many Irishmen? They work for the progress of Hobsonville, All those brothers, cousins, in-laws. The family is run by Joel Mclntock, That soul who hath and jars overflowing e sa po ace at t y eet s ces, woma, But she who is full of the grace of the Lord God We pray to Thee, O Lord, to keep us away from men possessed of the fleeting pleasures O, Father, let us go back so we can claim our future in Christ. - Amen. - A splendid sermon, Father. - Beautiful. - A memorable service. Thank you. Not here. You're supposed to eliminate Thank the Lord you're alive, Mercy is what I have learned from Him. - What's that? Hey, love the view. - California, I'd say. Obviously further east. Well, a ten-spot says you're mistaken. Pal, you've already lost. I bet that guy there ten dollars - That's true. Right again. I worked there. Ah. And what are you doing here? Working the town for a two-week run. Well, you picked the right place. Should be good here. For a guy like you, I guess - Yah Get outta here Go and find someplace else. Still here? Waiting for somebody? I found it Now you see it... ...now you don't. you have to lighten their burden. Get out, you two. t was ust a m su destad g It won't happen again, Major. You guys are pretty good. Pickles Five minutes, Mr Pickles Sleeping, Mr Pickles? Help Help Somebody killed Diane The statement of the circus proprietor the relationship between No doubt he killed her. I'm sorry to see you go, Sabata. Ed Cunningham will do fine replacing me. Thank s very much. I'll smoke it later. Now - How's business? This town's exploding by leaps and bounds. - What did he say? Go on Hot and cold running water. All the luxuries. It's the room I reserve for my special guests. Great. The only trouble is, It'll be somebody to help you. With what? I know you had nothing to do You're wrong. She's the one I've been with that circus for two months. Now Oh, well. If you need a helping hand... I mean... Yeah. I maybe could use a helping... finger. There's a lot of redheads loose around here. Well, I'm at your beck and call, Major. You know you can trust me. Don't forget, Major, during the war I suppose that's another reason we lost, Hey, stranger, you didn't pay any tax. - It's written right here. And 50 per cent for houses of pleasure? - No discounts? - That's 20 per cent. Here's to the Mclntock s of Hobsonville Ladies and gents, citizens of Hobsonville, we all want our town to expand and grow richer, To do that, we must all pay our contributions Oh, my friend My generous friend. See that man over there? I bought this weapon, the same as yours, If you're gonna charge me 24, taxes or not, Never mind, mister. Good citizens, don't pay any attention He don't respect the same things the sacred Bible, the blessed Saviour. Don't offend Sabata. Nothing, nothing. I asked the man You know an organisation - Mclntock's Anyone who uses trickery, money or violence to swindle innocent, unsuspecting people nobody can call that man a Christian. Try some. You get more attractive every time I see you. - I don't have to tell you what's in that package. You can't believe the papers. - Decide what you're here for. - How about it? 20 all right? Hello, Henry. Cows, man. I can tell you how old they are Your wife's teeth, You're offended. Rosette I wouldn't make any remark s about your age. But since you're getting personal, A good place for umbrellas. You can look but don't touch, Junior. - First time? I come here every day. - Every day? Only so far... I haven't got the nerve. Maggie was asking about you. - Just the town planning tax. I'll show you the exit door, That won't be necessary. I know the way. Let's go. Chuck Where are you going? I have an appointment with your leading lady. - She's rehearsing. Why? Who are you? Well, I'm her prompter. Hey, Joe. Tell him it's OK. Sabata. Oh, God Sabata - As a prompter, he's not bad. He must be the stage manager Come here. Please. Please Citizens What's the matter with you? Go on, boy - Leave me alone Here you are, stranger A good way to explain here's the way out. Worse than some cigars. Aw All right, Sabata, what the hell's going on? - He refuses to pay a penny in taxes. He said our taxes are &quot;legalised theft&quot;. If you don't obey our laws, - Hey Sheriff Have any of you ever seen a 50-dollar bill? There's one right here for you Don't push, Grandpa I'm better than you, buster Stranger, don't pretend you don't understand. The Bible says, &quot;Do unto others You know your way around. We may not think the same way, I'm doing you a good turn. Without the contributors, The citizens pay willingly If you insist, beat your drum, Oh This is a peaceful city, where every citizen respects the law Boom-boom. All you lack is a drum. - Quiet. Your organisation must be making No answer to that? They tell me you're a good gambler. I'm always looking for the odds. A year ago, there arrived in Hobsonville He was fine handling a pistol. But he kept on interfering with us. He disappeared suddenly. - Somebody did the poor man in. You can cheat at gambling, but for this, why risk your life? That's right. Just a minute. Who are you? Somebody who's looking for the odds. Not bad before breakfast. When are you going to begin making love? - Customers of yours? - Don't try any fooling around. - Remember, no noise. Sorry about the noise. Bye. You see, Maggie, I'm old-fashioned. - Anyone hurt? ...and quiet. Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom I'd like to take a ride. I'm beginning to understand your Mclntock. I knew that you'd get together with Mclntock. You're doing great. And you, Mr Mayor. When are you going to Now! Now here's where they'll erect A new school, right over there. The new food market, stockyards, the new bank and the biggest - Horse manure And a new newspaper's going to So... That's why I say you ought to pay your share. It isn't that much, a little percentage 20 per cent on luxury items, Keep talking like that and they'll raise it. You put him down He's careful. He wants all the money Hey, over there Hi, Bronco. Get away, you good for nothings How many times do I have to tell you? Keep Let's go Ah Whoa You know why I'm for Mclntock? Because he was a miner, Look at that mine. He worked it for years. Found all kinds of things, graves, caves millions of years old where people But gold? Not a trace. Come on now, tell me your thoughts. - I think he's already found it. I'll bet not even your own mother. - Well... Oh... Ha Waiting here, Maggie, can mean losing He's my business. Those two over there, And without any trouble-making. The Braddock brothers. They make a business trip here California? Lots of gold out there. Place your bets, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, ma'am. You sir, you got your chips down? Stick close to me, partner. You bring me luck. - I'm informed that you have a magnet on you. That's confidential information. Hand me your cigar, eh? Aha. If you don't win this time, Go on. Fourteen red. Pretty good, huh? Cash it in. And no city tax. We were waiting to hear you say that. It's a see-saw game. Two coins, a race, a kick. The first to grab the coin flipped into the air Except that this time, we'll play with these. Lieutenant, I could use that helping finger now. Ah... Take four steps. Come on. What are you waiting for? Fire Ha-ha Maybe you'd rather have this one. I'll show you how it work s. Hee-ya Ha Sabata Sabata! Sabata Sabata Good luck See you all later The next time you try anything like this, And I won't wait until later. Those bolts are all right. Well, I needed them in a hurry. I'll tear you apart No, not you Lieutenant. You're really the clown. I decide things around here. Nobody! To bring violence into where legality is a due process supporting a programme of reconstruction ...is against the judgment of Joel Mclntock. That friend of yours is a lot of trouble for us. - When is he leaving? I couldn't help it. I was forced into it. I owed him money for an old gambling debt. 5,000 dollars. I'll lend it to you. And get rid of him. This rotten town suits me just fine. So Mclntock gave you 5,000 dollars - By staying partners, we could earn more. - And if you swindle me? No? A guy wod soot s ge o wat me, just to spend his 20 days' convalescence You weren't wrong. He was a pig, But you take advantage of any situation. Look out What do you think? At both of us. Partners? Yes. To the end. I know Sabata. He'll get to you Let's go. That's my watch. Sit down. You know, Major, all the contributions hundreds of thousands of dollars... ...are in Jeremy Sweeney's safe. McIntock's future brother-in-law. Well... Because it's a family affair, We have to make sure the money's still there. How do you figure to do that? It's not difficult. All you have to have is a drum as though he were Our Lady of Pilar Mclntock Mclntock Mclntock McIntock! McIntock! McIntock! Citizens of Hobsonville, he wants to make personally. Friends, the trust that you placed in me waiting for this announcement, Now here it is. We're to begin A city we can all be proud of, a shining, moral home our women whose morality provides us with for our children and our children's children. No, no, no Stop Please, I hate violence. Hmm. Mm-hm... You were really marvellous, Joel. Thank you. What would I do without you? So that's how you're fighting Mclntock. Well, yours isn't the only way to fight. Don't upset things, please I know how to get rid of the bank guards. McDonald! - Come down here. O'Brien, it's Ferdy. Open up. - It won't open. - Him. - No. - It's double-locked. I wasn't sure. - The key Mm-hm. Jackie Jackie - Do we leave Clyde inside? What do you think you're doing? They're prettier. What is it? Jackie? What did you scream like that for? The valises. Get the valises, quickly. Hee-ya Hee-ya Misere, misere, misere... First time I ever missed. Put the wheels back on. Hee-ya Hee-ya Listen, partner... - Back to town. It's the only place Follow those two with the valises, quick Hey With all that cash, It's the only one of its kind. The water storage shack. - They're coming in. - The bags, or your lives. Let it go - Turn it off Lieutenant? Where you going? I really wasn't looking to duck out. - I'd be a son of a... But if our mothers walked the same streets, Unfortunately, Mclntock's little old lady We've been had, partner. What would you say if I told you You're crazy. You're lying. It's a joke. - That's what I thought. - Clyde, I must tell you something. The money's counterfeit. That Mclntock you're so busy two-timing... - Where does he keep the real stuff? Liar. The bags. Why don't you believe me, Major? All right, boys. Let's go. - Where shall I go? And you wouldn't like it. This is the last batch he made. Aren't they splendid, Jeremy? What is it? - No one could ever spot these. More time passes, I'm convinced you left A few days and we'll be gone. The town can crumble into dust, A fake Caesar. With all money carrying your features. Right in there is our entire fortune. We'll buy that man's silence. If he can't be bought, The everlasting Father is good and generous, Thus man is blessed. Amen. I took this watch off one of your men. It belongs to Pickles, Josiah Pickles, known to most of the circus audience I ran into Pickles just after the war. I found out about his... profession. I figured he'd find some way to make it pay off. Very interesting. So I wound up joining the circus. Nice, huh? The circus always has its fascinations. Comes here twice a year. In three years, that's six movements of Trouble is, I came with the last shipment. Whiskey? Why the face? A million dollars in counterfeit money. Now, you'd stick it in the safe. But why would you take so much trouble But wait a minute. Of course you can't. They're in California, right? A miner can't find gold, so he buys it? I don't want to spoil your game so I'll sell you I'll stop by the bank later and cash it in. You'll never get away with this. You look worried. Have a sip. The show's over. Tell your partner. - I'll be in before the bank closes. Not at the bank. I'll bring it to you. Counterfeit money? Why don't you tell everybody in Hobsonville McIntock promised to give me Then they won't lose their savings for nothing. Oh. Hm. - Don't you trust me? Hey, up there The boss is waiting for you. - Whoa. For the people. Stranger. Stranger, how'd you get out? &quot;You did wrong, Mac. If I don't all Hobsonville will hear Oh. Spent the night again, huh? What's the old guy got? Lieutenant, you shouldn't ask questions like that. Why don't you send Jackie for a few lessons? School's downstairs. Is Maggie teaching school? - What class? I've been teaching for years. I like it. And the principal is very pleased with her work. Major, it's almost time. Citizens of Hobsonville Finally the truth is out. The whole scandal is coming... Sabata Over in Redstone, our sister's You planning to marry? - She had a boy. Never careful, are you, Major? If you're after something, come and get it. The drum. Open it Hey, skinny You get his gun. Me? The same thing once happened to you But you had ideas then, eh, Major? Take it. - Where'd you hide that? Nooody t ust me Uh-uh. Someday... ...you'll win at poker. Bronco, what's the matter? I was thinking of your little boy. He'll be nobody's boy, like me, like him too. You at least had a mother to look after you. Oh... She was? - Guess so. Come with me. Ever since you've been here, He had to kill him. It was self-defence. Let him through Let him through Get back. Come on Stand back there. Stand back. Here's the murder weapon, Sheriff. Now ...let's reconstruct this crime. Sheriff. Pickles, Josiah Pickles, strangles Diane. Pickles is so dangerous, he wants to kill me too, - Now, what was the motive? But nobody's gonna untie Sorry, but you're wasting your time. Meanwhile, whoever killed Pickles A million dollars that belongs to us. The people. For our city to grow rich Mm-mm. Bronco, never break the law. Wait a minute. You mean the funds Give me six hours in exchange - The Mclntock mine Huh? Sheriff, gold in the old mine After 20 years? It's impossible - There was an explosion, and it dropped out A vein in his mine? Bad news Last month, he donated the mine to the city. Tell me, stranger, what are we gonna do - Wait till you get the real ones back. Ah. - Well, Sheriff? Where we're going, I don't have a place for you. See you in St Louis. Maggie. I'll miss you. Sabata will follow you. That's why I'm going. You better stay here. Go on in. I want to find that gold. - Where do we begin? We've got to find it before he gets back. Whoa. I don't need you. - If Sabata shows up, you know what to do. Hee-ya Let's go. I don't know, the Irish go one way, Put out that cigar. It's out. Over there. Hey, Bronco. - Thought I asked you to put out that cigar. - Run for it Hey, stranger. See? You're beaten, Sabata. You should have gone after the first wagon. Long gone is right. Not even that partner of yours. But don't worry. I don't care where my money comes from. The people of Hobsonville will give me ten per You're right. The people are always generous Ha, ha, ha. Now you just wait You don't plan to tell anybody because you're after my gold But you're wasting your time, What do you think? He would die before he'd let anybody find it. - Hey Is it worth dying for that money? Clyde I found it I found it It was here, under the stones. Clyde? Oh I'll take care of the gold. Go back upstairs I'll get my sister, be right back. Wait for me here. - The door's locked. Clyde? Clyde Clyde. Tell me how you got down here. - No, Joel. - No. Crawling around, snivelling like a bitch in heat, - To steal my gold Clyde? No Clyde. Clyde, help me No. Oh, no No! Clyde! Jackie. Why did you murder my sister? You killed my sister. Only one little sack. He's fooled us. All OK, Mr Mclntock. Get the wagon ready. - The chests are in the front room. - Is the old man doing the right thing? I put it under these rock s. Just one little sack of gold Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom If you wanna get money If you want a good life Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Shoot the lock off. Shoot it All right, men, pay attention. Find them and don't let them get away alive 20,000 dollars and he's yours. Hey, partner. I want to talk to you. My pistol's fully loaded Sabata, I've got him. We've got Mclntock. Now you judge my deal He offers me 20,000. You offer half of ten per cent - But he's the only one who knows where it is. And you understand my position I'd murder my own mother before telling her. If that's the way it is, let's get it over with. His is the better deal. Sabata You were going to rob me. Coming after my gold like jackals, like hyenas. No Nobody's going to get my gold. All my gold's in here Nobody knew it. I was too smart for them, - Major. No! No, no! You heard what he said, Major. All the gold is here somewhere. But where? Where? Hallelujah, hallelujah! Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah! Hallelujah, hallelujah! Hallelujah, hallelujah! Hallelujah, hallelujah! - Hallelujal! Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah! Lieutenant? Here's your lucky piece. Don't you want it back? All the cards are right here, Major. Mm-mm. You're good at cheating. But so is the house. And I claim a misdeal. Mm-hm. Pretty good, Major. That's right, Lieutenant. Well? - Pass. This beats the circus number you did. All we lack is the music. The show is over. Go ahead Shoot Your lucky piece. You won it back. You're leaving me here? Major! Partner! Sooner or later, you're gonna need Huh? Right? My finger Don't think I will. Aagh Aagh My hand Bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom-bom Sabata Sabata The fastest gun in the West I said. The fastest gun in the West Nine-fingered man. Four-barrelled derringer