(dramatic music begins) - [Newsman] The president's on to Elm Street in open limousine parade. (gunshot fires) - [Johnny] There's a cover-up - [Newsman] This is a &quot;Kennedy is shot in head.&quot; - [Johnny] The and then a scramble by the U.S. government to hide information from its people. - So much information was - [Lyndon] How many, how many, - [J. Edgar] Three. - [Johnny] The question has riveted America since that But over time, it's become kept information hidden, not just from the public, in charge of investigating This has fueled an understandable doubt in the official account, including, by the way, Lyndon B. Johnson, the president who took JFK's place. Congress even came out this was probably a conspiracy, and the public ran wild with this. They came up with hundreds of suspects of who could have been Theories like this thrive aren't transparent with their people. So let me show you how this happened. Let me explain the official story and why that story has been over the decades and explain that unlike a doubting the official story here isn't as crazy as you might think. (tense dramatic music) - [Journalist] This was a turning People all of a sudden decided, &quot;I'm not sure they're - JFK is this really during a very, very important and the story really of what it was like to be I'm really excited to dive in I need to thank the Sponsors allow us to do that take months to make with so thank you, BetterHelp, I'm a true believer in therapy. BetterHelp makes therapy using technology. It is a platform where you sign up, you fill out information about yourself, about what you're struggling with, about what you want to achieve, and then it matches you with It's this giant network of licensed therapists who with one of those therapists You can communicate which is what I do, I do phone therapy, you can do it over video call, or you can do it over text. If the therapist they match you can easily be matched with a new one to try someone else out. It makes therapy accessible, affordable, and in my mind, we all probably need and don't know it. At least that's how I feel. If you do want to sign up or try it out, you can get a discount. There's a link in my description. It is betterhelp.com/johnnyharris. When you click the link, it but it also gets you in on a 10% discount for your first month of BetterHelp. So you can try it out at a discount, see if it works for you, and you can cancel any time if not. Thank you, BetterHelp, for Let's dive back in to of what happened to JFK. (typewriter keyboard clacking) People loved John Kennedy. He was this good-looking guy who was always hanging out and he just seemed to in people. Kennedy rode this positive of American politics to This was in the early '60s when America was in a - Oh, this is a revolution, of course, that is sweeping our country now. - The U.S. was the global superpower and was locked in a Cold a world away. So JFK walks into the presidency to find his military causing a lot of trouble around the world. They had become very comfortable They were funding wars, they were overthrowing they were assassinating leaders that threatened American interests, and they were doing most By the way, if you wanna know more go watch the video where Anyway, JFK walks in and He wants to reign in these from what he sees as an He ended up firing and demoting a lot of these intel and military guys who were plotting and around the world, and he continued to pursue He chose diplomacy over violence. When nuclear-armed missiles he slowed down the momentum towards a full-scale presence in Vietnam and he shut down several that were being planned This caused great tension between JFK and America's military and spy leadership. All of this context is important when we look back on that - [Newsman] Friday morning, 11:37, the President's jet lands (typewriter keyboard clacking) - [Johnny] President Kennedy and the Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson arrived to Dallas for a speech that the President was to give. He got in this open-top and the Texas governor, John Connally, along with his wife, Nellie. They rode through these streets, downtown Dallas lined and then gunshots rang out. (gunshot fires) - [Newsman] Kennedy Blood was on his head. - [Johnny] The shots hit the also wounding Governor Connally. The President was rushed to the hospital where he was pronounced dead. - And very often, you'll find - Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. You'll excuse the fact but President Kennedy and have been cut down by assassins' The President has rushed (tense suspenseful music) (tense suspenseful music) - [Johnny] Within hours the prime suspect became this a self-declared communist who had renounced his American citizenship and moved to the Soviet Union, where he then fell disenchanted and move back to the U.S. Eventually, ending up on the sixth story of this building in Dallas where he worked and where he was on where he aimed a rifle His name was Lee Harvey Oswald. And after these shots rang out, he fled. While on the run, he shot and before hiding in a movie theater and then eventually being arrested at around 2:15 PM that day. - I didn't shoot anybody, no, Sir. - There was to be a trial, and Oswald planned to plead not guilty, claiming the whole thing - I'm just a patsy. - Patsy, which is like an old-timey term for like the fall guy, That same day, the vice was rushed back to the presidential plane and sworn in as the new before taking off and At the same time, the FBI, the top investigatory body in our country, descends onto Dallas. And very quickly, the director who's a big part of the story, he comes to a conclusion This is before any investigation And Hoover decides that Oswald absolutely was the one who did it. He was a communist sympathizer, he was a frustrated misfit, and crucially, he acted alone. There was no one else. Here's a phone call between Hoover and the new president, LBJ. - [J. Edgar] There's no question The fingerprints and things we have. - I'd like some legal representation, but you, police officers, have - But luckily, we have a justice system and we would find what Oswald was going to stand trial where the evidence could where the country could see for themselves who actually shot their President and get closure on this horrifying event, where whoever did it could But that never happened. Two days after the assassination, while Oswald was being transferred from police headquarters a nightclub owner named Jack Ruby jumped out in front of the and news reporters and shot Oswald. (gunshot fires) He was quickly rushed to the hospital where he died soon after, the same hospital where just 48 hours earlier. - Lee Oswald has been shot. - I think he got what he deserved, if he's the one that did it. - It is difficult to say for the full realization of - With Oswald dead, no real sense of justice. This left the government with the opportunity to of what happened. The very next day, the Deputy Attorney General stressing that the with this explanation He didn't have co-conspirators This had to be the story, and This memo also included some wisdom and kind of a foreshadow over the next several decades where the memo urges the as much information as so as to avoid public speculation. Just remember that advice, &quot;Release the information to It's kinda the most We have these recently between the FBI director, J. Edgar Hoover, and the new president, LBJ, and we see in this phone call that the FBI actually didn't - [Lyndon] I think it to have a rash of investigations. - [J. Edgar] It'd be a three-ring circus. - [Lyndon] Well, the only to appoint a high level one I can select out of the government, and I could tell the House and Senate not to go ahead with the investigation. - [J. Edgar] Yes. - LBJ creates this group and you can see in these phone calls, he was asking the FBI director who should be on the Commission. - [Lyndon] What do you - [J. Edgar] I think - [Johnny] Wait, did you catch that? Allen Dulles, he was the former director of the CIA. He's one of the guys that JFK fired after he tried to overthrow And now, he's about to be investigating Kennedy's assassination. This did nothing to instill - The new president appointed a Commission of seven prominent Americans to investigate the whole affair. - [Lyndon] The Special all the evidence uncovered of Investigation and all the information available to any agencies - The Warren Commission to investigate this that was mostly provided They produced this report, which essentially confirms the conclusion that J. Edgar Hoover, the in the hours and days that on November 22nd, the shots fired that killed the President and wounded the Governor Lee Harvey Oswald. The report stresses that he acted alone. They say it very definitively. He nor the person who killed were a part of any conspiracy, All of the shots came solely from the sixth floor of this building, and crucially, there were Three bullets. - [Lyndon] How many, how many, - [J. Edgar] Three. - [Lyndon] Any of them fired at me? - [J. Edgar] No. - [Lyndon] All three to the President? - [J. Edgar] All three to the President, and we have them. - [Johnny] The report likely missed the car completely, but that the second one did It first hit the president in the back and then exited his chest. It then entered through went through his rib, and but it wasn't done yet. It then entered his wrist, and then exited the wrist and went partially into Whoa, okay. It's quite the journey for one bullet. Oh, and the bullet in question, which just apparently made seven wounds, supposedly looked like this, which some ballistic experts have said looks a little too pristine for a bullet that allegedly just went And then, of course, the third bullet, according to the Warren Commission, was the one that delivered the fatal headshot to the President. This was the explanation came up with to explain all of the wounds that were found on the victims. All of this damage had to be and why just three bullets? Again, ask J. Edgar Hoover - [J. Edgar] On that floor, we found the three empty - They only found three So if all of this damage was done with more than three bullets, that would mean that there had A conspiracy. But there couldn't be a conspiracy. Hoover had adopted this line of thinking right after the assassination, this assumption that it was just one guy, and that line of thinking endured into the Warren Commission, a commission that Hoover himself helped the President assemble. In the end, the Commission used a lot of cherry-picked evidence that supported their And in the process, they turned any focus away from exploring all including the possibility of a conspiracy. The report focuses almost Lee Harvey Oswald, and his three bullets. - Who killed John F. Kennedy? The Commission answers Was Oswald a member of a conspiracy? The Commission answers, &quot;He acted alone.&quot; - They ignored witnesses that They ignored or modified from surgeons and doctors who immediately after he that said that the wounds in looked like they came in from the front, meaning not from this building that was behind the President. In other words, the FBI ignored the advice from that memo that admonished the government In my mind, this was the biggest mistake and the root of all that exists today. The question I had in all of this is, why? Why not do a proper investigation that explores the possibility by a group of conspirators For me, the answer to this question has a lot to do with the greatest fears that the American government in the early 1960s. (tense suspenseful music) First, we have to remember was right in the heart of the Cold War, a time of constant vigilance of extreme tension between If this assassination was seen as an attempt to topple the government. Or even worse, if it had been or its fellow communist regime in Cuba, that would create a sense of panic among the American public. It would be a very different situation than a 24-year-old communist A believed conspiracy from the American public to strike back, which could lead to an escalation with another nuclear-armed nation. Oh, and the CIA also had an incentive to keep an investigation At the time, they were secretly conducting to assassinate Cuba's This was a big deal and it Any deep investigation into might reveal that the CIA is trying to assassinate Fidel Castro, which would not be good for the CIA. So one way to read all of this, the memos, the rushed conclusion, the emphasis on Oswald acting alone, the need for there to you can see this as a bunch scrambling to keep the to make sure that all while reducing the possibility of geopolitical escalation You can see this in some where the new president is deeply worried about keeping the American people united around a simplified He's worried that if it could threaten our entire system. So their tactic for doing this to suppress and influence and make it very simple, Oswald did it. That's it. Here's the problem though. Eventually, people will do the math and realize that the government has been keeping the and that's exactly what happens next. (tense suspenseful music) So the Warren Commission files its report with the official story of what happened, but soon after they do so, members of the Warren come out and say like they that the Warren Commission just put out, especially when it comes that one bullet was responsible - I could not convince myself that the same bullet struck both of them. - [Interviewer] You weren't convinced about - No, I wasn't convinced. - [Johnny] Governor Connally, the one who was sitting in front of JFK and the one who was supposedly shot by that one single bullet, he disagreed with the story. - I understand there's some question in the minds of the experts we could both have been I just don't happen to believe that. - Even the new president, I mean, he was kind of secretive about it, but he eventually did come out and tell a reporter from the Atlantic that he thought that that it was Cuba for all of these CIA attempts This was not good for the Warren Then, 12 years after the assassination, this full uncut version of a strip of film that shows the assassination of JFK, it finally airs on national TV. - It's the film shot by the Abraham Zapruder, and it's the execution - This was the first time solid visual evidence of this event, but why hadn't it been released earlier? To some, this film contradicted the official account from and it sparked this new from a government that kept behaving like it was hiding something. All of this is coinciding with where Americans are losing You just see this massive like nosedive. All of the CIA's covert operations are starting to come to light, the country is mired in the President's people were political opponents in a hotel in D.C. Like, the government has not so people are like, &quot;It wouldn't be a far was also behind the assassination of JFK.&quot; This was furthered by the of Martin Luther King, Jr. - Dr. Martin Luther King, the apostle of non-violence has been shot to death - This was all too much and So in a shining moment of Congress responded by forming a committee that reopened the two assassinations, JFK and MLK. This committee did a real investigation. They actually were earnest about this and they confirmed what a lot of Americans were already feeling, which is that the Warren didn't sufficiently look into the possibilities of a conspiracy. They say it point blank. They were way too fixated that it had to be this and that their conclusions and then they specifically for withholding information One FBI agent even testified by his superiors to destroy evidence. In this case, a letter that - And he handed it to me and There can be no trial. Here, get rid of this.&quot; - Why was the FBI asking its The committee concluded that that it was two gunmen that fired at JFK and that it was probably a conspiracy.&quot; That's what it says. But they stopped short who that other gunman was or who had organized the conspiracy. And then they once again that all of the information - Isn't it time for the American people to, at least, know what in Dallas, Texas on November 22nd, 1963? - Quick caveat, the committee's conclusion that the assassination relied heavily on one piece of evidence, which was the sound where you can hear gunshots and it kind of inferred that there were like multiple shooters. This evidence was later challenged and kind of debunked by the FBI, but also a different research &quot;This sound recording It wasn't even recorded during the time of the assassination.&quot; But to me, the whole conspiracy the most important part of The most important part that the Warren Commission had and hiding stuff from the American people. After the Congressional Committee confirmed to the American and the CIA had been hiding evidence, the conspiracy theories rose up once again culminating in this that paints an alternative picture of what could have happened here, a shadowy government conspiracy or at least a conspiracy - Oswald, Ruby, Cuba, the mafia, keeps them guessing like prevents them from asking the Why was Kennedy killed? Who benefited? Who has the power to cover it up? - The film was largely conjecture, kind of based on some elements of truth, and some might argue that it to, like, show the American public like, &quot;Hey, the government But hey, in a world where the and forthright to the American people, this film felt like a response. Maybe the government was hiding the truth, maybe the government did do it, or maybe they're just We don't know because they This was a popular movie and people latched onto the - The notion that there were the way that it's presented is highly convincing. - Public pressure got so intense that Congress finally decided to do what they should have done in the '60s, which is force all of these agencies to release all of the information. So in 1992, Congress passes this law that would lay the all of the documents by October 2017. That was the deadline. They assembled a committee to go through all of the documents and reexamine the official account and prepare these documents We actually talked to the - I was nominated by President Clinton to chair the Assassination - In the process of going over this review board found and discrepancies and instances like the autopsy. There's an entire video I could and the missing brain and all of this, but the crux of it is that what moments after the President was shot. They recorded and they, like, wrote down, but then what the official autopsy record actually looked like when it was released was something very different. The way the wounds were described, where the wounds were, what the brain looked like, all of this stuff had The photos themselves had and then the brain itself It's like unaccounted for. So anyway, that's an entire rabbit hole that you can go down if you want to. Releasing all these records also revealed that the CIA and FBI had been keeping tabs on Oswald's whereabouts, because he was like a Soviet sympathizer, but like, why didn't we know that before? We learned that the Secret the original motorcade the surveillance tapes from that day. They had destroyed them. - Now, we found those documents in the hands of another agency, so ultimately there was no harm. - Judge Tunheim said that, yes, but a lot of stuff was still missing. Like, there was one guy at the CIA who took control of the investigation a couple weeks after the assassination, and all of his records - Now, did he destroy them all? Maybe, I don't know. There's no real record of that, so you still have that - In total, they finally by 2017, basically everything except that the CIA still refuses to release. Why? Guys, come on. You can find this whole on the National Archives' website. We'll put a link in the description. Okay, but here's the Even after 5 million to the American public, to a public that was like still, there is no solid-smoking that points to a conspiracy, that points to anyone other as the person who by himself, acting on his own. Now, the evidence may exist somewhere, but it's been destroyed or whatever. The point is, the government these 5 million documents in the '60s. Like, they could have done this back when they should have, and it wouldn't have and it would've satiated that was skeptical of their government. At this point though, The feeling that the has now sunk deep into We all kind of are like, &quot;The JFK assassination, yes, I'm not really sure they're ever gonna regain our trust on this one because of how much hiding throughout all of these decades. So on the internet, all around, from people who are you have alternative Maybe it was LBJ who planned it so that he could be president. Or what I believe is perhaps which is that some wanted to take out JFK because JFK was against He was shutting down And then there's, of course, I mean, that's what LBJ, the Like, he was like, &quot;It was probably Cuba because we've been trying to The point is that because left by the CIA and the from the American people, people started to look at and grasp at any evidence they They started connecting who met mysterious or suspicious deaths. Many theorists will fixate holding an umbrella in maybe giving the signal It's all very tantalizing, and some of it is actually very valid as like leads for further investigation. But despite a lot of really fishy stuff, I have not seen any solid evidence that proves an alternative story to the one that was told that Lee Harvey Oswald and he acted alone. I think it's very plausible that there could be some conspiracy. I think we will never know because we simply don't have the evidence. One thing I do know for certain though is that the moment this investigation turned into an effort and influence the facts it laid the foundation for the public to turn this into a Again, I keep going back to that feeling of being lied to by your government. It's very potent. It sticks with you. It creates fertile ground for conspiracy theories Because when you feel by your own democracy, no matter the reason or justification, it makes you feel like you're on your own, like no one's got your back, and that you are the one who And to me, it's that space that the most enduring conspiracy theories find their footing. (tense suspenseful music) - Have you ever committed any - No. (tense suspenseful music ends)