In July of 1995, Folsom Lake, a reservoir reached its full capacity as snow continued plant shut down for maintenance, the dam's gates to maintain appropriate flow in the one side suddenly collapsed and swung open, past the gate down the spillway. With no way Lake began to drop... and drop and drop. By operators could block the opening, nearly half Forensic investigation of the failure revealed of its pivot mechanism, called the trunnion, the gate was stuck at its hinges. When the hoist the struts buckled, causing the gate to collapse. the failure in 1995. However, corrosion is an it's hard to know when to sound the It's been estimated that we lose roughly because of the collective corrosion of the things simple chemical reaction, and there's an entire the problem. So, this is the first in a series subscribe to catch them all. You probably don't rust, but you might add one after this video. In today's episode we're talking about This video is sponsored by HelloFresh, It will come as no surprise to you that we build human civilization are named after the kinds age and the following iron age. These days nearly metal or in a metallic machine, from devices and including bridges, pipelines, sewers, pumps, Metals are particularly useful for so many plethora of processes (like smelting, refining, various ways according to our needs. But, (in due course) the materials we create through a that structures deteriorate over time that it But, infrastructure is expensive and we so we need it to last as long the failure of infrastructure has consequences so keeping corrosion in check is big You're here for engineering, not chemistry, electrochemical descent into entropy: a way into a more stable form (usually an oxide). an anode (that's the corroding metal), a a path for the electrical current between the to complete the circuit. And the anode and same piece of metal with slightly different elements is a corrosion cell, and the process that those used in batteries to store electricity. reduction-oxidation) reaction, which in this case from the metal in question to material called an oxide. For corroded iron Here's a little model bridge I made from I added a little bit of hydrogen peroxide it clearer on camera. This timelapse ran for Of course, we don't keep our bridges hydrogen peroxide, but we do expose of conditions and configurations You're probably familiar with uniform like the beautiful green patina of copper oxides of Liberty. But corrosion takes many forms, with all of them. These engineers know the common not including drainage holes, leaving small types of metals. Corrosion can occur from the metals to contact one another, called galvanic a stainless steel object can lead to degradation pits, or between individual grains of the metal's are vulnerable to corrosion of the steel it expands in volume, creating internal Just as there are lots of kinds many professionals with careers the study of corrosion and its prevention is a material science, and structural engineering. the AMPP or Association for Materials training and certifications, develops standards, involved in the fight against corrosion. to protect structures against this insidious One of the simplest tools in the toolbox is just same rate or in the same conditions, and and platinum aren't just used in jewelry because also prized because they aren't very reactive to But, you won't see many bridges built from gold, Steel is the most common metal used in It simply consists of iron and carbon. Steel and quite strong, but it's also one of the I've got another demonstration set up here in a bubbler to keep the water oxygenated, and a let the time lapse run, and let you It doesn't take long at all for that Even the steel bolt to the left that has a after a day or two of this harsh treatment. That gives a hint about why the other ones shown are iron oxide that mostly flakes and falls off, there film that keeps the metal from corroding further. passivate are corrosion resistant precisely In my demo I included several metals that undergo aluminium for the non-north-americans), which is struggled against the saltwater. I also included (in this case) silicon. Finally, I included two amounts, sometimes as much as 10%, of chromium of stainless steel, called 304 and 316 in the US. but I didn't really notice a difference I should also note that there are even steel steel (sometimes known by its trade name of Corten resilient against rust because of passivation. A nickel, silicon, and chromium don't keep the rust to stay attached, forming a protective If you keep an eye out, you'll see weathering One of my favorite examples is the Pennybacker the tallest building in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in the building's facade and structural columns. coating, the engineers elected to make them hollow remain exposed as an exemplification of the Architects love the oxidized look, engineers love as cheap, and owners love not having to paint cost. In fact, the cost of corrosion is the In 1998, the Federal Highway Administration impacts of corrosion across nearly every industry to production and manufacturing. They found that made up an astronomical $276 billion dollars, over spend roughly as much today, that amounts more than the average American spends on gasoline! Corrosion costs show up in increased taxes to pay sewer, electricity, and natural gas; increased metal things you buy (especially vehicles). But In 2014, the City of Flint Michigan began using drinking water to save money. The river water had supply sourced from Lake Huron, making it more to their water supply to prevent decay of pipe against it, again to save on costs. The result was leaching lead from aging pipes, exposing and sparking a water crisis that lasted for 80 lawsuits (many of which are still ongoing), criminally charged, and upwards of 12,000 kids because of poor management of corrosion. Sadly, infrastructure problems caused by corrosion. society that we'll never escape the problem, to advance so that we can learn more about how You know what else is necessary Good food! We are now in our fourth while I try to make dinner in sponsor, Hello Fresh. Spending time in the kitchen and HelloFresh converts the chore of cooking My family has grown by 2 over those past few well. HelloFresh has flexible plans that and they even have kid-friendly The meals are also pretty quick to make, with Those evening hours are precious right now, and the preproportioned ingredients and simple And why say it when I can show We wouldn't still be making them 4 Now is a great time to give it a try. Go to for 16 free meals across 7 boxes and 3 free PRACTICAL16. Thank you for watching,