Do you get stressed out and anxious? Do you find out of your control? You know when I was growing anxious as me. He'd get all worked up and just scratch on his belly and every single calm down. And I thought wouldn't it be great if dog where we could just scratch our belly when calm ourselves down? Well, I later in life vagal nerve stimulation and I'll show you how to and in this short video I'll show you some vagus nerve to calm down, to de-stress, and Just a quick disclaimer: if you're suffering from any serious mental illness, please check with sharing with you things that I've picked up yoga. Let's talk about the vagus nerve. What is nerve and the name vagus comes from the Latin &quot;to throughout your thoracic cavity and your nervous signals. And the vagus nerve innervates and functions of your body. Things like breathing, many different things. For the sake of this video your parasympathetic nervous system response. but your autonomic nervous system this is, like are two main branches to your autonomic nervous system, that's your fight or flight response. physical exertion, through hunting. And then you and this is rest and digest, peace and love, and collectedness. The reason I'm sharing with responsible for our parasympathetic nervous system ideal world it's automatic, and we have periods of clean the house, do the laundry, empty the inbox. digesting, and problem solving, and thinking, and really like that. In our modern life you open up You go to work and you're overwhelmed with more and many of us are managing family and work and not to mention things like air pollution, noise And so our autonomic nervous system it gets fight-or-flight response. That's where completely physically exhausted, but but tired. I'm sure you know the feeling. Despite self-soothe, like my dog rubbing its belly. And really important. Now many of you know the feeling really sure what's going on. When we think about we often talk about vagal nerve tone. The but if you think about this vagus nerve and you response, when you have high vagal tone that That doesn't mean you don't get stressed out, that you will, but it does mean that you're able when somebody cuts you off in traffic, rather within a couple of minutes you're able to respond get worried or anxious about the future, but it put your head on the pillow and go to bed. Now the opposite is what a lot of us suffer from. What happens is somebody cuts you in line at the about it for the rest of your day. What happens is again you just can't let it go and it's 11 o'clock This is low vagal tone. To check in with your in general, there's a few techniques that can be is called the nasal cycle test. Some of you have doesn't work for everyone, but it's pretty put it underneath your nose, and let's What we're looking for is to identify which is the air flowing through more freely? Your right system state. Your left nostril is indicative Right nostril, fight-or-flight. Left nostril, rest that fight-or-flight is bad and rest and digest like to be stimulated with our sympathetic nervous heart and our lungs, we need to get things done. calm, and collected. So if it's 11 o'clock wired but tired, and you're in your right nostril, you another test. Now this is a weird one. You on a selfie video. Stick out your tongue and take a look at the video. What you're looking for you've seen it before when you're brushing your this little piece of tissue that hangs down in nerve innervates your soft palate, remember I told wanders up into the back of your mouth, your soft sometimes that uvula can actually be deviated, it to do with a selfie video or just in the mirror in you're in an imbalanced state. The third technique we're looking to do is cultivate interoception, not just what's going on in the news, or in is to close your eyes and check in. How are you that happened earlier today? Are you worried and like there's a dark cloud of anxiety hovering go? This simple check-in, again, can be indicative or low vagal tone if you're out of balance. OK, its role in your parasympathetic nervous system, with our nervous system and checking in with our simple, weird techniques for stimulating looking to do what I used to do with my These techniques, there are lots of different these are weird ones you probably haven't seen they're pretty well researched. The first one is a technique, where we make a low resonant humming throat. Your vagus nerve comes down either side This is essentially like a plumbing tube that goes you have your jugular vein, you have your carotid And when we vibrate the back of your and stimulate it, like the dog, and help Try to make a low, slow, resonant sound. It you're embarrassed just go in the bathroom and I'd encourage you to do 10 rounds of Bhramari, slow, low, oscillating exhales, that as an added bonus, it helps to release which is a vasodilator and a bronchodilator. but also helps to relax you as well. The next practice. Of all the different things you can is probably the most effective and consistent. and one of them is the chin lock. In yoga this is We'll use the chin lock at the top of the breath in towards my chest it puts pressure on that again will help to massage the vagus nerve. The and deeply. In fact, I will exaggerate my passes through the opening of the diaphragm, so it massages your vagus nerve. It so we get kind of a double whammy effect. breathe in to the count of four one side of we'll release and exhale for four on the I'll use a traditional pranayama mudra with my Close my nose, lock and hold. Lift my chin, exhale. I'll show you one more time but without talking. So that's triangle breathing. It's four on the chin lock for four, and then exhale for and see how you feel. It's a very, very the most unusual, the most strange. If you take kind of Pirates of the Caribbean earrings for ears. And let's massage by making small, gentle, five. And now backwards, five, four, three, two, two, three, four, five, and now backwards, five, your vagus nerve is a vagabond, it goes all up into your neck, it also goes up near your of the vagus nerve goes right up here. And so this but for some people it works really well and the can do this one while you're at work, you can do while you're on a plane, and no one will even know what we're focusing on, is stimulating your nervous system response to help you to manage adaptive and a less reactive way. Great to have what we covered. We talked about how our modern mental, emotional, physical, all of the above. in our fight-or-flight response and we lack self-soothe. So like my dog scratching its like triangle breathing, and like this ear interested in learning more about the vagus the work of Stephen Porges, also Deb Dana. Deb a guest on the podcast, I'll link up down in the on the vagus nerve is very, very helpful. I'll you'd like more science-based yoga videos please hit that like button and if you have questions find my teaching schedule at yogabody.com and