During the Great Depression were widespread, and assumed that resulted in a However, the fact to live in unsanitary turned the depression into for personal hygiene. The effects on business, personal finances were but when it came to hygiene So today we're at what hygiene was like But before we get started, be History channel and let below what other you would like to hear about. Toothbrushes had already but during the Great Depression Prior to the 30s toothbrushes from a stick rubbed to a bunch of bore bristles But DuPont de Nemours when the chemical the first toothbrush Marketed as Dr. West's DuPont's product improved of the old models. It cleaned better, and its marketing contributed of oral hygiene. Simultaneously promoting the advertisements that oral health was essential front during World War II. Soldiers fighting were also given continued to brush their In the drought-plagued parts as the Dust Bowl, could be found on everything. Dust made its way into and often caused for men, women, and children. Many in states like were even forced to but some tried to tough it out. Caroline A. Henderson remained on their Oklahoma farm. In a letter to a friend she described the to take to deal with pervasive penetrates wherever air can go. These measures included tying handkerchiefs and lining their The family also took on their windowsills to collect the dust as Though according to Caroline, The grime didn't of the people of Oklahoma, Times. The dust even reached the Big and lodged itself in the and coughing New Yorkers. Tampons were not invented In fact, the concept goes where women in places like used tampon-like implements and other absorbent fibers. During the late 19th were used to to female reproductive used to absorb discharges The 1920s saw the development were cleaner and more and could meet the needs and elegant women alike. Then during the expanding academic and media opened larger conversations and even more new technologies Modern tampons were Haas in the early 1930s. Haas's device was made be inserted with an applicator. Cotton was eventually and in 1936 Tampax was born. Owned by Gertrude Tenderich, advertised in throughout the late 1930s. In the 1940s an hit the market, the They were branded as o.b. which was an abbreviation of meaning without napkins. Tampons were advertised as while eliminating hazards, humiliation. Most everyone knows that Lysol that's useful for keeping but during the 1920s it was clean relationships. A woman who used was said to be protecting simultaneously for the good of her marriage. As a bonus, since douching of birth control was also believed to prevent Advertisers played into but also depicted as successful and responsible The implication was, the properties could Unfortunately, the harsh chemicals in Lysol inflammation and sometimes And of course Lysol was at preventing pregnancy. One research study conducted of the women who used became pregnant, who'd making questionable claims. As a result of the millions of people found themselves unemployed Many of those cities from coming in, arguing add to unemployment and the to the unemployed. It was also believed those and increase crime rates. While the health of improved during the many families couldn't or lived in such squalor that In shantytowns or were called in mocking honor hastily crafted tents and without access to clean water. Garbage collected and inadequate facilities contributed to Concern over the spread like tuberculosis, malaria, even led to several but they didn't help everyone. When former loom couldn't afford medical care for perished from whooping cough. The emphasis on cleanliness in advertising campaigns and eventually started to affect Razor and shaving targeted businessmen, would be more employable, more with a hair-free face. A connection was drawn between and in large part that survives to this very day. The idea that clean-shaven than bearded ones in campaigns like the used in the 1930s. Their ads stated that should get the job because Smith lacks the face. Similarly the Gillette that taking the chance and then could put a Shaving was becoming and in 1931 Schick cashed in by which was alleged even easier and quicker. During the 1920s and 1930s into halitosis. The term lent the condition and serious distinction one's social status and health. Listerine, developed during the last years transitioned to an in the 1910s. It even functioned as during the 1920s, recommend drinking Listerine Robitussin on the other Listerine mouthwash was marketed an ailment that could from getting a job but perpetual spinsterhood. With a headline, &quot;Always a the implication for without fresh breath you were and sorrow. In light of those didn't want to take any chances During the 1930s, deodorant began advertising In contrast to traditional was tied to sweat and hard played on male in the ever tenuous workplace. So if that guy in the doesn't smell like It's Weird to think there no such thing as a laundromat. It actually wasn't Fort Worth, Texas businessman what he called a Washateria, was born. Wish we'd kept the that's pretty fantastic. Washing machines were expensive, to run them, so the installed four machines and offer them for Two years later in Buffalo, opened a similar establishment, coin-operated laundry services. Like so many Depression laundromats capitalized on and a lack of cleanliness, as Their widespread use commercial laundries, an taken a hit from the sales during the 1920s. This only worsened to use washing machines and washing machines available to consumers Soap was readily available and thankfully it was As soap became that item go without, companies like Their advertising campaign in multiple forms of media, on the radio were Companies like Procter &amp; Gamble, became prominent sponsors entertainment aimed at became known as Soap Operas. If you couldn't afford was also an option. This was done by combining and any fragrances Homemade soap was used to wash alike. Many women made soap or sold it for extra money. So what do you think? Is Depression Hygiene not as Let us know in the comments check out some of these other