Hi i'm Francis and welcome to another thank you to my subscriber who as always we will first answer the question then we will look at the list of advantages and have a good time with oil pastels. who might better stick with another art finally we will have a summary let's get started and answer the oil pastels are sticks of pigment you might already know something similar they however don't use oil and therefore the oil in oil pastel sticks to blend the colors in the style of oil paint. paint is that you don't have to handle even though, yes, they do become soluble in order to create with this medium at all. you are thinking of soft pastels. the difference that is why the oil pastels don't leave and instead have a creamy consistency now let's talk about the equipment and first off you need your oil pastel sticks. different shades by blending and mixing them decide for yourself how many colors you think you the price range is vast and each brand bit different but especially for beginners the only thing i highly recommend is: do not if possible find an art supply i created this list of different brands top how many colors are in a set and then now i have the sakura cray pas but the ones i have are not in production anymore they are now divided into cray pas almost all of the sticks were still functional, but some had dried if i had to give you a tip i'd say go because you can buy single oil pastel sticks. affordable and you can choose your own colors i'd go for 24 maximum 36. as i mentioned in a unique way. if some property a very smooth paint application, you want to look and buy a single stick of high quality white now we have the paint covered oil pastels can be applied on mdf plates or even canvas. but if your paper has a light texture or tooth your it should however be thicker than printing meter. when you apply oil pastels you need a bit light force it might be too much for thin paper. should be sufficient. i mostly use this mixed it's mostly standard but do look out for on the recipe of your oil pastel stick if you want your colors to merge into each you will need something to blend your paint with. blending is the thing that elevates your oil painting. it is the most common technique used to for blending you can use cotton swabs, your mentioned works as well. you can even use the let's talk a bit more about a few advantages and disadvantages of oil pastels. where you amass enough paint to give it texture. if you want to use that technique often. other and then scrape down the top layer. you can which is often otherwise difficult i will introduce another technique okay we talked about what oil pastels are, and you learned the basic techniques now let's talk about the advantages and what oil pastels are one of the cleanest, ready they are a bit sticky and your hands might be there are no utensils to clean. you can quickly therefore oil pastels are if you love painting from life, oil pastels they are also great if you have limited art supplies or a small work desk does not pose another advantage is that most oil pastels are and you can even spend time painting together. have over oil paint. you get the beautiful oil and toxins. so if you always wanted to try out the oil pastels are vibrant and rich paintings. they are mostly used for landscape if you know your color theory you will have oil pastels are a fun way to learn and another advantage is that you can create you quickly cover much ground and make progress between colors without washing a brush first. no problem! so if you are like me, an impatient their thoughts and vision to paper, they are also versatile in their and further processing techniques. and they are very inviting to experiment with. last little advantage i want to you can put a painting aside and if you ever experience dry edges of paint, place they do get softer with rising temperature now we took a look at the lengthy list you already know that it would if you find any of the information i provide thumbs up so i know i'm on the right again i will go into the personality types so the biggest disadvantage you should be to control. the stick itself is broad and you can use sandpaper or a knife to sharpen naturally to oil pastels. you will certainly you are aiming for. as paint clumps together that means that oil pastels are not suited because you need to let go of your need if you do want details you can use or you can use oil-based colored pencils. another big con is the storability of oil pastel never truly dry. therefore you can always smear paintings in a transparent film before storing glass frame, otherwise the oil paint will collect distance between the painting and the glass to because these frames can be expensive, your painting or even better: have the there are fixatives available but they are a bit also you cannot scan oil pastel paintings but can be printed. so if you already know you want to this could pose an issue for you. another thing you need to be aware of is that oil you have to paint with a quarter of a stump or there are also little crumbs that fall you could accidentally smudge them over your the lookout for these crumbs and also place i am not doing that at the moment because i almost always wear long sleeved shirts and you should also be aware that there is no paint and you can paint over existing layers but after scraping off paint. it will be a because you always interact with all the the last little disadvantage you should know and limit the size of your painting. from some brands but usually you will probably Phew, are you still with me? it is now time for my final, as always very on a scale from No Fun to they are great to experiment with and keep unique properties. to Cheap i give it 5 out of 5 stars again. and can purchase a studio quality set from a on a scale from Know How to you need to learn some techniques and a pastels otherwise you might end up with a and when you mash up the colors together they last category are oil pastels Ready i give it 5 out of 5 stars. you they need little to no storage space ready to paint in seconds and can as you can see i am quite impressed with oil in the video, let me know in the comments. i will want to know about oil pastels! i will post the video helpful i'd be very grateful for a quick Bye!