Hey I'm Chris and today we're going to foundation system seriously increasing the Ours is the 200 square foot deck We're going to be using eight 24 posts sat in TuffBlocks to To tie it all together we're using to the back and building a fireplace We're going to take you through on how easy it is to do yourself. The first step is to mark out the dimensions and spray paint. Now we know our TuffBlocks will sit just we want to level and compact. There was a slight change of plans later in this video. Alright so as you can see one of site like this is as the ground to make sure we keep our Starting on this side it'll be nice and end of the deck we're going to be a and we're going to show you how we today in this video. Okay today we're using this sod cutter here. You can do this by shovel. If you don't own one of these you Here for this job we're just setting and then let it roll. We're gonna get Here we're loosening the top soil so we All right we've used our sod cutter. Now we're just going to dig it out, You can set this aside and if the that's perfectly good turf. Now that we've dug up all the topsoil which is compacting the ground. So at this point we're just going to dig and the TuffBlock to sit in. Compact the soil, fill that with We'regoing to be just one foot in Measure that out. Dig our trench and we just need each So now that we've dug our trench we've We're just checking that we want to be which we're pretty much there. Here we're down next. Compact that. Sit our We're creating four terraces along the and then we've marked every We're laying down our paver base with our compactor. Now that we've got our terraces we're ready to get a really nice level For that we're going to be scooping out Just make a small area, tamp that down getting each individual TuffBlock Now they don't need to be level relative and we'll show you how that's done. We're scooping just enough gravel to cover As you practice this process becomes single block in about 30 seconds. Lightly tamp it down then And there we've got it. Now this however it's not necessarily in the we've laid back there and You're going to see how we account Now the alternative to this would be with concrete which typically requires a By using TuffBlock you can get a deck like reducing the number of tools and We're placing down the first four TuffBlocks on the outer frame. At this point we're ready to cut our length you need for your deck. In our Measure your joists, you've got eight Even though we're using treated lumber where you've made your cuts. Okay at this point we're going to to help us get a measurement for that end. We've already marked off Just going to keep it tucked back a you can't see it when the deck So here we're just going to slot it into our to rise it up and clamp it until the board measurement for our first post and Oh mate you are right on it dude. Good, down a hair. Yeah perfect that's it. Here we're going to our post is going to sit right to the bottom We're now ready to cut our my 18 7 eighth inches, but on top of that I height of your joists in my case another So this is where I'm going to make notching in which i'll show you in Okay so I've got my post and then we're just going to make these of the joist as well. What you want to do joist and set your circular saw to that your post. Make a series of close cuts. Grab your hammer. We're just going to level Once you've got the end of the post cut right on top of there. Therefore all the going to be coming directly down into having it stuck to the side and all that your screws or whatever you've So that's why we take this extra step. Now because we have made a fresh again we're just going to and just treat that again. We're just going to extend the life in prevent rot. Something that takes There you go. So here we're placing that it to the joist we leveled earlier. The slot and it's checked out so it'll Here we're marking out our joists on same process as before by leveling and We've gone and attached our joist hangers which is recommended for a rigid base. Okay so to this point you can see we've It's really important at this point we're and square. To check for level, simple, you sides and you can even run a long runner We've done that. We're level right across. center joists we want to make sure There are two good ways of doing With the three, four, five method you're whether it's five inches or one foot and one leg of your corner, four units Mark them, and when you connect you should have five units distance. corners, you know you've The other and possibly the more simple of your square. Just measure If they're the same distance At this stage you're measuring the and then cutting posts to that height. Remember to add additional length be checked out. We're fixing our joists to the joist hangers process you've seen earlier, which is to level road base, measure the height required for that to the TuffBlock and joist. We'll essentially repeat this sequence of of our frame. We just have our final post to connect One thing to note as we end on day one on camera it's extended our build time, of hands you could Hey we're back on site for day We've done most of the structure laying on those top decking boards, We're going to put a couple nice We'll plant a nice small garden around We just wanted to take a moment to we've chosen to use TuffBlock for It's really nice that it's been machined They'll slot right in there, give you a nice It'll fit a second size lumber if you've got 4x4 post good and snug straight down giving onto the 45 it'll accommodate slightly Okay so at this point we are running these It's because the joist itself is not supported The reason for that is that we have our in from the edge and that'll just Now that is the maximum allowed overhang so we're gonna put in a number of these on top of that it'll be plenty strong to support As you'll see later on, this overhang fascia boards that make the Alright so for this phase just before we we're laying down this protective would be any moisture between It'll stop any mildew or rot from All right we're ready to go. We've it's level. We've now protected it We're ready to go and start getting Now the style of decking that we've It works by a series of spacers which decking boards. with a countersunk screw that sits right For our end spacer as we place it onto our we want to make sure that plastic because as we come along and we don't want to be cutting into plastic. Now it's unlikely that all your lumber will to cover the width of your deck. For the first few boards we've used we've used some of our shorter Now I want that join to be centered and on my ends until I get that joint centered and with a nice tight fitting. We've made sure to space of the deck so that they're not all Make sure to focus these joints over to place the cut to create a random Periodically through your deck build we haven't built out one side farther We want to make sure we're coming with each of our deck boards. Now because we're not running a we're going to periodically measure right down to the end of the deck. The measurement should be the If it is we're good to go. If not we're just going to make about that in one second. Let's just have 110 and one half inches. 110 and one half inch. Now if one of my measurements were to of the deck and trying to make with our next board we can just and we're just going to do that end of the deck. You can see we're about three our decking and it's got a great It's quiet, it feels firm and solid. And you can see one thing that decking boards is we've gone as close as we can and left all What we'll do eventually is we'll come giving us nice big pieces if we'd like on the deck and minimizing wastage So what we've just done is we've just because you'd be pretty lucky to have to the end of your deck. So all we've done is we've stuck that and then ripped right down the We've now got all our decking boards All we need to do now is come down the We're going to put some make it look beautiful We're maximizing our lumber to create our stairs and This will be the first step Here you can see we've added paver to help tie in the deck to We've just built the basic outside frame high end of our deck. Here again we're using TuffBlock. using these same joists slotted sideways into our TuffBlock, and using the upright 4x4 post to Here we're using a dremel to create grooves Here we're using a miter saw to boards for a seamless finish which Here our straight edge which our circular saw with a guide to Here we're making sure to stop before our We just finished our deck and we're really the stairs off the back high side of the deck width just to cover down around the joists deck. Just for a little extra aesthetic a couple paver stones and a beautiful fire As a little extra we've thrown on Now let's sit back and enjoy our We hope you found this video useful and showing you TuffBlock's multiple applications Thanks for watching and we'll