It's 27 December, 2009. People are basking in the afterglow of Christmas, new decade, and overall filled with merriment That is, of course, until several posts are an upcoming threat. The New Year will not be a time of joy; it Because as the clock strikes midnight, RuneScape have never been seen before. As the clock strikes twelve, 750,000 accounts This was far from an empty threat. This declaration of war was being attributed name was also attached to several high profile Marshviper had hijacked The Old Nite, one had also discovered the glitch. Even beyond RuneScape, he was known in the Starcraft Surge and the Warhammer Hiscore If it was just some random anonymous threat, But this was someone who could actually do It couldn't be true... Could it? Well, apparently, Marshviper had found an that gave him access to any account he wanted. After coding up a dirty little script to do press away from taking control of 750,000 most ardent players. Why? Well, this wasn't for money or fame. Actually, I lied, this was for fame - because for the largest online game hijacking in history. Although, being able to empty the banks of a nice side effect. Adding to the menacing nature of the proclamation, A way for players to check if they were at to try and prepare for the inevitable - although, do to stop him. The list was made entirely because Marsh knew To further back up the claims, sources for and black market forums that had discussed One of these forums even hosted the members of what would later become group Haxunit, in case you needed further This wasn't just some random kid going "omegalul Source: just trust me bro". This was a coordinated effort. This could very well be real. So, naturally, the community loses it over spread like wildfire. Now, in the pre-2010s, publicly sharing a it is today. So, the list was hosted on Rapidshare - a limited download potential unless you paid This meant that players started to make their had a Rapidshare Premium account back in 2009. Which was fine for a bit, but then some people by attaching viruses to the copies of the New Years Eve thanks to so many getting swept Now that people couldn't trust the copies, download, while the unfortunate few with tainted accounts back. The forums are aflutter with posts about the Regardless of whether Marsh's original threat now very real. == == comes over and uses the booth next to him.] Guy: of upcoming hijackings? Pretty scary stuff, huh? Fletcher: Guy: Fletcher: course. N- [Fletcher is about to jump into the integration, Guy: Isn't that the big VPN provider that everyone such as a reliable password manager and fast The one that helps protect you from DDoS attacks the way of your nonstop gaming grinds? Fletcher: It's the one with top of the range threat and scans all the files you download to make Guy: deal as part of their Cyber Security Awareness on top of any and all plans and products, VPN, NordPass AND NordLocker?e Fletcher: And you can get your exclusive NordVPN deal with Nord's 30-day money-back guarantee. Guy: Fletcher: Guy: [Guy proceeds to bankstand. There's an awkward silence.] Onlooker: the Lumbridge marketplace. == == Jagex can only stay silent for so long. Just past midnight on 29 December, Community many posts that have overtaken the forums He asks for everyone to settle down, to minimize of supposed bug abuse would just encourage However, he was not going to dismiss their issue to be investigated by the Jagex ICU of thing. Fansite forums aren't convinced. This is a cover up. I bet he just said that to keep us quiet, Well, that very afternoon, Community Manager Well, it's not going to happen. The systems are safe, and they can't be There's no exploit here, it's just someone But being vigilant about account safety is to take steps to keep themselves safe regardless. But by the time the players receive this response, everyone else about the upcoming doom, and While many have bought it completely, there In the chat of one such uploaded video, you the list itself that is compromised; so only However, on 30 December, Marsh publishes his him to be a fake. He claims that Jagex have made contact with him off - but he won't back down. He also said that, unfortunately, Jagex did Guinness of all people - telling them to call And, as one last thing to remove any doubts the proxies he is intending to use to pull scripts which will automate the whole process The RuneScape forums are left with the Forum public comments about the matter. You have nothing to worry about, there's you secured them, etcetera etcetera. Not particularly reassuring to those who are can do. With no more comments from Jagex or Marsh, Some are non-believers, who see the whole Some are invested beyond a reasonable doubt, But there are plenty of people stuck in the But what if it is real? As the clock approaches midnight on New Year's to 2009 and beckon in the 2010s, many players hoping that keeping their accounts logged With hearts of all shapes and sizes truly as the final seconds tick away to midnight. 10. 9. 8. 7. 6. 5. [4 days earlier] It's 27 December, 2009. People are basking in the afterglow of Christmas, new decade, and overall filled with merriment That is, of course, still true for our fellow Australia. However, Ork Legend, a member of the PKing Co-Star Cursed You belonged to - is bored. And you know what would be fun? Causing chaos in the community. Fueled entirely by the motive of "because a list of several hundred thousand names from It's not particularly hard to find; plenty are long lists with names of accounts that or other devious techniques on. He then takes the name "MarshviperX" from story about his notoriety before posting a he found. Obviously, he expects nothing of it. Even a cursory background check on his story But a couple people will believe it, which have a good giggle at the players believing But the problem is, word starts to spread was easy to fact check as false becomes assumed Oh, of course I've heard of MarshviperX. Haven't you? And so the quickly thought up hoax becomes That's hilarious. But you know what else it is? An opportunity. If you weren't on the internet in the mid it was to upload and download stuff publicly. You usually had to resort which put heavy restrictions on downloading stuff to cover their maintenance costs. You'd download a few megabytes, then have the file, or pay for a premium account to And don't get me started on the adverts, But if you didn't want to give yours or to download stuff, you could get some credit if you uploaded stuff that Brings more people, and hence people to look Well, as the visitor count to the DI forums interested in this list, Ork and two other link for one that awarded them RapidShare While they weren't able to monetise the the old, copy-pasted link, they still managed new one. And so, as everyone said goodbye to the 2000s 3. 2. 1. [...Nothing interesting happens.] The forum reaction was... weird. With many still expecting an unprecedented in as survivors, stating their accounts had However, it didn't take long for Ork Legend the hoax and sharing images of community reactions Some analytics were also provided, showing the event had been. The original post was also thoroughly debunked. The "sources" Ork had provided never hosted Quint, one of the Haxunit members frequenting alleged hijacking that Marsh had boasted about. MarshviperX was an entirely fake persona. The Old Nite had been recovered by someone The Blood Rune dupe was found by the bug abuse individual. The 2002 Starcraft Surge and Warhammer Hiscore If you haven't heard of those, don't worry, No Google results. Completely made up. He hadn't even subscribed to the Will Miss A fraud through and through. And obviously, the logistics of hijacking If you were confused about how such a thing Assuming that running scripts to take 750,000 hijacker's computer(s), it'd put a huge The same Jagex who could just rollback an So, as everyone entered 2010, with the New players go about their daily business with Elated with the results, the DI forums list folder - while Ork gets away scot free, now points to spend on all the downloads he could of the RuneScape community. Thank you all for watching. These are the small sort of events I really don't preserve them, we'll all just forget And some things are just too funny to lose. That's all for now, my name is Will Miss