I'd like to begin this session with a can identify for me the famous theologian who had more authority than he did as a has popped into your mind. I'm referring, who referred to him as a wild pig was Pope Luther, the name of the bull was Exsurge lines of this papal statement that was words mean this: &quot;Rise up, oh lords. on to say, &quot;there is a wild boar loose in Leo had other things to say about Luther theses that had created such a stir that spread across Europe and had reached attention of Leo, Leo said, &quot;Ah! He is a he's sober.&quot; And I say that to call Sixteenth Century it was acceptable in not in a genteel, polite form of dialogue, polemical debate. And so if you read the sides of the controversy, it seems as attacks upon each other. But even in that was in a class by himself. He was so times that people have even suggested that what I'd like to consider in this session: twentieth century psychoanalysis is, or fact, insane, and if you are a Protestant roots of your own religions persuasion it's somewhat fascinating to see how into the past and watch the grass growing later. Well there's no boundaries to the think that they can go back into the pages able to diagnose the psychological state ago or five hundred years ago, or however. actually come to the conclusion that insane. But what I want to ask is this: would provoke them to think perhaps the already this extraordinary intemperance of work on the bondage of the will, which is scholar Erasmus of Rotterdam, where entitled &quot;The Diatribe.&quot; And when Luther like this: &quot;Erasmus, you fool, you stupid take the time to listen to the flimsy you -- you are eloquent. Your pen is material that you have written,&quot; he said, down the street carrying gold and silver the way Luther would engage in theological the vernacular, but I think you get the his speech, but he was clearly neurotic, hypochondriac. He suffered from nervous life, and I can relate to that. He had predicted his death six or seven times. sure it was a fatal disease, and he was that the Hound of Heaven was about to of judgment. And his phobias were many and of God that early on in his ministry &quot;Brother Martin, do you love God?&quot; You ask me if I love God? Love God? Sometimes judge who is simply looking at me to me.&quot; Imagine a young man preparing for through periods of hating God, and that paralyzing fear that Luther expressed that man his father had plans for Luther to be Luther, who was a coalminer in Germany, his son to go to the finest law school on law student, he distinguished himself very minds in the field of jurisprudence in all experience, he was coming home one suddenly this storm arose without warning, road in the midst of a violent electrical the thunder was banging, and suddenly a his horse that Luther was thrown from the his body to see if he was still alive. And narrow escape from death, he cried out, monk.&quot; And he took this narrow brush with a call to the ministry. So he -- to his dropped out of law school and enrolled in to become a priest. Now there aren't too reaction to a close encounter with the Western Open, outside of Chicago, Professional Golf Tour were injured by a Trevino. And they survived this difficult appeared on a talk show -- a late-night &quot;Now Mr. Trevino, what did you learn from a lightning bolt?&quot; And Trevino smiled, and wants to play through, you get out of His he said, &quot;I've also learned to take a lightning storm now.&quot; And the host &quot;Well now if I see lightning, I down the fairway holding it in the air.&quot; hold a metal stick up in the air? It's no, no.&quot; He said, &quot;Even God can't hit a close brush with death from lightning with Luther was driven to change his entire up his career -- not out of a love for God wrath of God. Well then the day finally to celebrate his first mass, and finally their peace with their son's precipitous and attend the celebration of the first as you know, Luder -- Luther -- had outstanding scholar and as an outstanding eager anticipation for his presentation have to understand this: that in the Roman mass, the belief of the Roman Catholic observation, a divine, supernatural, during the prayer of consecration, that holy orders and has been consecrated as a the miracle takes place -- the miracle even though the appearance of bread and discern any observable change in these there is a substantive change, an they call transubstantiation. That is, are changed into the substance of the very accidens -- that is the external, remain the same. This is the miracle, and training for this moment when he would divine mystery would take place so that hands of the son of a coal miner would be elements from the earth, but nothing less Christ. And so the moment in the mass came everyone waited for Luther to say the point in the mass, and this one who was so speaking, he approached that moment, and and his lips moved, but no words came out. congregation trying to will the words out his face in embarrassment that his son celebration of the mass that he had thought he simply forgot the lines. He mumbled them and rapidly completed the embarrassment, but he explained later that began to contemplate the idea that this dare have the audacity to hold in his of Christ. And Luther was so overcome with moment. Oh, there are other stories about character of his behavior. We remember and a dispute came up between the celebration of the Lord's Supper, and agreement between these two strong forces important symposium, and there they were insisted on the corporeal presence of the Lord's Supper, and he just took his fist over again. &quot;Hoc est corpus meum. Hoc est at the United Nations decades ago when he the table for attention. Luther wouldn't saying over and over again, &quot;This is my perhaps the thing that would most indicate megalomania. I mean how else can you every authority structure of this world priest against all of the authorities of church counsels, against the finest through all of these debates at Leipzig. debated with Cardinal Cajetan. He went and now, finally the whole discussion comes to Diet -- the Imperial Diet of Worms -- and going to be asked to recant of his before the ecclesiastical authorities but he's granted safe conduct to come to this before he gets there, in typical fashion say when you get to Worms?&quot; And he said of the pope as the vicar of Christ, but adversary of Christ, the vicar of Satan.&quot; he would make -- less than tactful and the stage was set for the Imperial Diet of Hollywood would have you look at it this hall, and he stood there alone as the crowd, the princes of the church and from their lofty seats, and the inquisitor to the books that were on the table next will you recant of these writings?&quot; And looked up into the gallery and he saw the Holy Roman Empire, and he saw the princes representatives from the Curia in Rome, sacred Scripture or by evident reason, I captive by the Word of God, and to act safe. Here I stand. God help me, I can do Reformation. That's not how it happened. question was put to Martin Luther, &quot;Martin he said? He answered the question, and said. They said, &quot;What did he say? What say? Will you recant of these writings?&quot; said, &quot;Could I have twenty-four hours to right, and he was granted the additional private prayer and meditation; and he survived to this day. And I'd like to read you can get a feeling for the anguish of before the final verdict. For Luther, this like this: &quot;Oh, God, Almighty God Behold how its mouth opens to swallow me the weakness of the flesh and the power of in this world, all is over. The knell is oh God, oh thou my God, help me against beseech thee. Thou shouldest do this, by not mine but thine. I have not business these great men of the world. I would peace, but the cause is yours, and it is oh faithful and unchangeable God. I lean man is tottering. Whatever proceeds from not hear? My God, art thou no longer but hide thyself. Thou hast chosen me for accomplish thine own will and forsake me Jesus Christ, my defense, my buckler, my And on the morrow, when Luther returned to the inquisitor put the question to him, he of these teachings?&quot; And again Luther &quot;Unless I'm convinced by sacred Scripture, can't recant. My conscience is held against conscience is neither right nor else. God, help me.&quot; Megalomania? Visions fact the aspect of Luther's life that goes back to his years in the monastery. every young priest in the monastery to go monastery to give a daily confession to routine the other brothers would come into &quot;Father, I have sinned, and hear my do?&quot; &quot;Well last night after lights out I chapters in the Psalms when I wasn't coveted Brother Henry's chicken leg at the you get in in a monastery? These guys father confessor would say, &quot;Say so many send them back to their labors as monks. confessional. He would say, &quot;Father, twenty-four hours since my last the sins that he had committed in the past not five minutes or ten minutes, not a days after days where Luther would spend the past day, and it would take him two the point that it was driving the complained to him. They said, &quot;Brother peccadilloes. If you're going to confess Luther was doing was all these small, to feel that he was goldbricking. They time here in the confessional? You don't you as a priests&quot; But his confessor earnest about this, and Luther revealed confessional after a three or four-hour the priest saying, &quot;Your sins are light-hearted and joyous as he returned to a sin that he had committed that he forgot the peace vanished. Now that's crazy if, that a person has normal, built-in defense afflictions. We are very, very adept at human beings. They say sometimes that genius, and that those who are geniuses the line. And I suspect, perhaps, that's thing that the psychiatrists overlook ever studied theology he had already student of the law, and he took that applied it to the law of God; and then he demands -- the fullness of the demands of in light of the holy law of God, and he evaluating himself not by comparing looking at the standard at the character saw himself so awful in comparison to the began to hate any idea of the he was preparing his lectures as a doctor University of Wittenberg in the doctrines the book of Romans, as he was reading the and reading a passage that Augustine had one, and he read these words: &quot;For the the just shall live by faith.&quot; And that what this passage was teaching in righteousness of God -- not that righteous, but it was describing the you and for me graciously, freely to Anyone who puts their trust in Christ righteousness of Christ. And Luther said, the first time that my justification, that on the basis of my own naked short of the demands of God, but it rests of Jesus Christ, which I must hold on to understood that, for the first time in my and beheld the doors of Paradise swung like Luther said to the world, from that diets and to kings, &quot;The just shall live God is holy, and I am not is the article I negotiate it with nobody because it's gentlemen, if that's crazy I pray that God that into this world that the gospel may that in the presence of a holy God that is by the fact that God, in His holiness, offered us the holiness of His Son as a on Him should not perish but have which Luther was prepared to die. Let's testimony of this madman, that he righteousness that is not our own to cover thank you that you have not dangled us Luther, that you have not driven us to the see the sweetness and the glory of Christ; hears this message to embrace, and I pray, sent to the conscience of everyone who they are ready to leap for joy in in Christ and in Christ alone. Amen.