- In this video, I'm going which can lead to developmental And overused is not as These toys should only be of 10 to 15 minutes per day. And on top of developmental delays, they also pose safety risks which is something you when deciding whether or not to use them. The first toy is one that It is the baby floor seat. Baby floor seats are small devices which support a baby to sit up before they're capable And typically, they're used by babies who are around three to six months of age. Baby floor seats are often promoted as a means of teaching a However, they don't really help babies learn the skill of sitting that process. When a baby is sitting they are passively placed and then essentially And that's because the equipment itself actually holds them into by providing really firm and their trunk muscle. And this snug fit to actually turn on their to sit upright, which from being able to and pelvic stability which to sit independently. Furthermore, when babies are they're unable to move from side to side or backwards and forwards. And this prevents them that dynamic sitting for a baby to sit up independently. Additionally, baby floor seats the risk of a baby which is basically hip dislocation or a partial hip dislocation. And this is because when a their legs are encouraged to come together and adopt a straight like positions. They go straight in front of their body. Now, this position is for developmental dysplasia of the hip or that hip dislocation. Instead, we want our babies to be adopting a healthy hip position where and their knees are bent which isn't something they can achieve when they're using a baby floor seat. Furthermore, there have also been cases of babies sustaining injuries, when they're using baby floor seats. In fact, there have been cases where infants as young have fallen or escaped by arching backwards, leaning or actually rocking in that floor seat. Also, the risk of injury is higher once a baby's able to independently sit up and they're still placed as a way to keep them in one spot because these children and they will try and get out and that can result in them falling. Now, before we cover the at increased risk of injury if you haven't already, make sure you click on the in the description box below which will give you as you'll know when to and when to be concerned. Now, the second toy is Now, baby jumpers or bouncers to bounce by using their And unfortunately, while extremely enjoyable, baby a baby's development of sustaining injuries. So firstly, let's talk about Babies are often placed in baby jumpers from four months of age and up. Now, generally, until eight babies do not have the to stand up, let alone when they are bouncing quickly. And because they don't have these skills when using a baby jumper, into the slung seat rather Now, standing upright is to adopt when they're Furthermore, baby jumpers and push up off their tippy toes. And regular use can to have pointed toes all the time. And this can lead to And in the extreme cases, needing to have serial casting to actually lengthen the This learned movement is actually counterproductive that's required for independent and therefore can delay the development of your baby reaching these milestones. Also when a baby is the hip joint is still developing. And during this stage of hip development, it's really important to adopt a healthy hip position, which simply means that or frog-like shape. And unfortunately, when babies their legs are suspended and straight. And this is an unhealthy hip position and it can increase the risk including hip dysplasia When using baby jumpers, babies have actually sustained after falling from these devices, and this was due to lots It was the door clamps breaking, the laces snapping under tension, the baby was not securely in the first place, or rushed past the baby when and accidentally pushed and this caused an injury. There have also been cases where babies have actually because they've become trapped and chains of the baby jumper. Now the third toy is an exersaucer. So an exersaucer is a that has a slung seat in while they're either standing or sitting. Now, depending on the the baby's feet may directly or they might rest on Exersaucers are marketed as a toy which will help to strengthen so that they can actually But unfortunately, this isn't true. And this is because babies are before they can actually Because once they can stand, you obviously don't need And when babies are placed in exersaucers before they have the strength instead of standing upright, the baby will actually fall forward and rest their tummy on the Now this results in their And as a result, they need to actually to actually place their head to then play with those toys. And as their legs are to support their body, they Now, this position of locking one's knees and bending forward at the and shoulders and head is your baby needs to be in For a baby to actually their feet need to essentially their hip and their hip needs rather than tilting forward. So it needs to be in a neutral position and their shoulders and above their hips. We do not want a child to be when they're in standing to falling over. So as you can see, the when using an exersaucer actually and may result in the baby of moving, which will make it to learn to stand and walk. In addition to potentially a baby is also at risk of falling out of or climbing out of an exersaucer And the fourth toy is a baby walker. A baby walker is a toy that babies use to move from one place to another before they're able to walk. Baby walkers typically which has a slung seat in the middle which holds the baby in standing and allows their feet or and propel themselves forwards. Now, this might sound great, but baby walkers are simply not safe. Baby walkers allow infants to and grab things that are An infant in a baby walker can actually move more than three feet or one meter per one second. And due to the sheer speed parents are simply unable to actually prevent injuries. In fact, most baby walker injuries happen while adults are watching. The most common injuries babies sustain when using a baby walker so these include skull fractures, cut lip, tooth damage, cut Children have also when they've reached for hot or open fires when they're There have also been incidents of choking after a child has been able to reach a toy which they wouldn't unless they're in the baby walker. Children have also sustained or breaks from when the have collapsed. And lastly, there's been when the baby has actually or bathroom products or medicine, which they wouldn't have had access to unless they were in that baby walker. In addition to the safety risk associated with using baby walkers, baby walkers can stop a baby from learning the proper When using baby walkers, and move the baby walker, and using their toes to Now this position is the wrong muscles required for walking. To stand and then walk, babies need to learn to and they need to walk on The American Academy of Pediatrics has actually clearly do not promote independent walking and stress that baby walkers can actually delay normal As baby walkers do not provide babies with any developmental benefits and they actually increase their risk of sustaining quite serious injuries, the American Academy of Pediatrics the ban of manufacture and Canada themselves have and actually banned the sale Now, if you do want to buy a toy to help your baby learn to walk, then what you want is And what you need to do to find out exactly what and how it's very as well as how a baby push walker will help give your and build their muscle strength to walk. And most importantly, let you figure out which baby push walker is and your baby.