Welcome back cinephiles! Here, we pick up where we left off in part If you haven't seen part one yet, check Today, we'll take a look at the performances Robert Duvall, Ned Beatty, Marlene Warfield, Kathy Cronkite, and Arthur Burghardt. This is Making Film... Beatrice Straight had only been in a few movies but she had starred in many plays on Broadway. Producer Howard Gottfried said, "When she came in to read for the part... she had us weeping" (Itzkoff 93). Script Supervisor Kay Chapin noted during which focused mostly on the Winter Romance "printable performance [with]... tears and Nearly all of Beatrice Straight's screen-time where Max tells his wife that he has been that he is in love with her. The dialogue is grand and eloquent--perhaps more so than you'd expect in real life, but it works. This scene was filmed in one day-- of the Apthorp building at 390 West End Avenue&quot; The scene [quote] &quot;consists of a master shot, twice, angles, three times each&quot; (Itzkoff 117). Well, the most complicated shot here, apartment ultimately ending up in the foyer more than any other shot in the film (Itzkoff There was a specific reason for this besides Sidney Lumet: "I knew that she had to get really almost exhaustion before she'd hit shooting and shooting and shooting. And I remember it was very charming because, bigger and bigger and chewing the scenery and Paddy came over and he said, 'Sidney, that's much to big.' And I said, 'Paddy, you know about comedy, Go sit down. It'll be alright." Lumet was nearing his third divorce at the Around take six or seven, the scene began Lumet wanted [quote] "an emotional through-line&quot; In working out the scene on the day, they with a burst of energy slowly drains by the end of it-- much like these moments in real life (Network: The Experience). "Oh, say something for God's sake." I really think this scene could work as a it perfectly illustrates their relationship. They've been together such a long time that they can fall into the same emotional wavelength. Louise has been betrayed, but she can still and knows that it isn't his intention to There were a few issues with the scene in The first was that a mispronunciation of 'emeritus' Straight had been saying "e-meh-Ree-tus I can totally relate to this, but editor Alan despite never having heard the word pronounced something just didn't seem right about the So, that line became one of the very few lines to be dubbed over in the finished film. You can hear the difference in audio quality "Your last roar of passion before you settle Is that what's left for me?" The second issue was much worse. In the screenplay, the Winter Romance scene which, during the assembly, seemed to Chayefsky, They felt that the Winter Romance scene was They actually came very close to cutting the if not for Heim making [quote] "a last-ditch by having the motel love scene come first" It's crazy to think that this scene, which Actress Oscar, For the role of Frank Hackett, someone who seemed sophisticated. At this time, a role like Frank was a departure This was after he played Hagen in The Godfather, Perhaps his role in Network was partially Duvall was a last minute idea and Lumet said because he is not the kind of guy you'd imagine wearing a tuxedo (Cast and Characters). Dunaway said that it was fun to act with Duvall everything is happening to him and not just Duvall also never spoke in the third-person he wouldn't say, 'Hackett would do this,' 'I would do this" (Cast and Characters). Duvall also got into character in a very interesting He would occasionally open up the office window and one time he dropped his pants and mooned Duvall is also hilarious in this role. I love this part where he interrupts the man "As of this minute, over fourteen thousand Herb, tell him... Herb's phone hasn't stopped ringing. Every Goddamned affiliate from Albuquerque Sidney Lumet: "I needed actors that could who understood the nature of comedy, which but it's not perfectly natural. It's a very tough, hard line to follow." All of Duvall's performance in this scene was Take-1 (Commentary). "Two-billion dollars isn't pique! That's the wrath of God and the wrath of Ned Beatty wasn't the first choice to play In fact, they had cast a different actor, that the original actor couldn't give them It was actually Robert Altman who suggested Beatty was cast 3 days before they were to "Primal Forces of Nature" scene. "You have meddled with the primal forces He flew out, memorizing his four-page speech He met with Lumet on a Sunday and they were He was very nervous because of the pressure but to know every word exactly as Chayefsky Beatty had done Shakespeare and approached as if it were in a Shakespeare play (Cast Faye Dunaway: "I will never forget looking and there were speeches like that Beatty was nominated for a Best Supporting They were all set to shoot this scene in a but their request was denied after reading there is "'no America' and 'no democracy'" run everything (Itzkoff 118). The scene ended up being shot at the New York which has a Beaux-Arts boardroom and a grand that they would use as the lobby for CCA. "The light is impending. I bare witness to the light!" The New York Public Library had a large amount They weren't allowed to bring any external Those lamps on the table and the candelabra Cinematographer Owen Roizman said, and backlight the smoke to give rays of light,... And I couldn't do any of those things. They wouldn't allow us to use smoke or anything However, you'll notice that there is a spotlight Roizman said, "I basically begged to hang table to light Beatty at the other end. It's one of the only scenes where I wasn't The light was okay, but I think I overexposed You can see how strange it seems that such entirely in a long shot. This scene has a very theatrical feeling. Beatty has to project like he is on a stage. "And you! Will! Atone!" I imagine that if the camera had been cutting it would lose its power. We would get the sense that the film is trying that it is Jensen The desk lamps provide a nice visual line but they themselves are imposing constantly watching every move Beale makes. Beatty threw himself into the scene occasionally Peter Finch crack up at his theatrics. He even went as far as one point jumping up After the day was over, Beatty asked Chayefsky Beatty said, "without moving a single muscle, [Chayefsky replied,] 'It's okay'" The part of Laureen Hobbs went to Marlene Hope officer in London (Itzkoff 94). In the scene where Hobbs meets Diana in Los -- which was actually shot in Long Island Lumet, in his direction, reminded Warfield "[an] all-black cast of characters includes masks or whiteface makeup." As it turns out, Warfield was in a run of in the East Village during the 60s (Itzkoff 134). Lumet told Warfield, "You are the black Warfield said, "He hit it, man, he hit it what this is about. And from then on, we did the scene. That's all he had to say" (Itzkoff 134). Warfield also noted that Lumet must have seen and thought that it was "a stroke of genius" This character alludes to Patty Hearst-- Randolph Hearst, who was the inspiration for Patty Hearst was kidnapped by a radical group and was found to have participated in a bank She claimed in court that the group sexually threatened to kill her, and brainwashed her Patty Hearst is actually referenced in the "That's not the one that kidnapped Patty "No no, that's the Symbionese Liberation What's interesting is that this character the daughter of iconic newscaster Walter Cronkite. This adds another layer to the film's satire And Kathy Cronkite herself, had to worry about due to her father's fame (Itzkoff 132). Chayefsky's script was full of tongue twisters, for Cronkite, who was less experienced than most of her costars. The line is this: "Fugginfascist! Have you seen the movies we took at the San demonstrating the rising up of a seminal prisoner-class infrastructure?!" (Itzkoff 133). Here is the clip in the film: "You Fugginfascist! Did you seen the film we made at the San demonstrating the rising up of a seminal prisoner-class Cronkite said, &quot;I'm coming down the stairs so rich in politics and so convoluted, This is not something that I identify with Particularly when I'm coming in with that All I really want to say is, 'F you, F you!' I don't want to be spouting multisyllabic And it was very difficult to get the words I remember saying to Paddy, 'Look, can we Cronkite says this will haunt her for the Cronkite goes on to say, "They just said, But they didn't make me feel dumb or embarrassed They just basically said, 'Well, let's Sidney had an amazing way of saying, 'You greatest thing in the world. He had this amazing way of saying, How about if we try it again, and just tweak The film portrays the fictional Ecumenical Khan was played by Arthur Burghardt who, only in prison for draft evasion (Itzkoff 135). He had been transferred to a maximum security during a peaceful protest, he was maced and and placed in solitary confinement for fifteen I mention this because he was unsure about because he thought it might reflect poorly Burghardt is a big guy. Khan is a criminal, robbing banks and causing and he ultimately commits a televised murder However, his hesitance to take on the role in which he burst open the door brandishing and threatening everybody in the room. Burghardt said, "I went in looking very the garb of a revolutionary guerrilla... I think I put a toothpick in my mouth. I always believe in going into auditions looking And I thought, this may be something" (Itzkoff 94). The stunt worked. Howard Gottfried remarked, that's the kind of guy we wanted" (Itzkoff Burghardt made a point to use the film's He said, "I decided I'd play the archetype He was still pretty sure that he would never "black people won't like me doing this People on television won't want me in television" Nevertheless, he went for it opting to play while filling his mouth with fried chicken. At one point when he said this line: "What the f*ck are you talking about?" chicken flew out of his mouth and landed on He was embarrassed, but Lumet said that he It should also be noted that Burghardt is so take after take, he would do the scene and wipe his mouth out (Cast and Characters). At one point the chicken was running low, with wads of toilet paper to get the look of a man gorging himself on chicken (Itzkoff 136). The performances in Network are so engaging Louise wants Max, Max wants Diana, Diana wants to use Howard Beale to make a Laureen Hobbs wants Howard's success to Howard Beale wants to stop the CCA deal, and Jensen wants to push forward the CCA deal. Lumet took a theater approach, which worked The environment Lumet created during the making There is interesting stuff happening with but there is nothing to detract from the performances. Thanks for watching! If you're interested in helping this channel share this video on your social media platforms and get early access to videos, vote on video topics like this one, and much more. And if you're new here, please hit that because there are plenty of videos on the Thanks again for watching!