[FLAMENCO GUITAR] 12 Angry Men was originally a teleplay and was broadcast on CBS in 1954 It was later rewritten for film in 1957 and was nominated for Best Picture, Today, it stands as the number five Here are seven screenwriting secrets in 12 Angry Men. [MUSIC] 12 Angry Men is a unique courtroom drama in that The story starts at the end of the trial So it's important that they set up the rules of the game Judge: If there's a reasonable doubt in your then you must bring me a verdict of not guilty. One man is dead. Another man's life is at stake. However you decide, your verdict must be unanimous. Once the jurors are in the jury room, You know that we have and if we vote the accused guilty, Just remember that this has to be That's the law. And there's one added detail that I called the Weather Bureau this morning. Make sure you establish the rules so the audience can then enjoy the story itself. [MUSIC] The entire story of 12 Angry Men We essentially have one gigantic scene. But there are clear plot points in the story, Each sequence begins with A new objective. Let's take a look. The first sequence is the end of the court session. It's the only time we see the defendant. Here's the new objective that pushes us It's now your duty to sit down and try The jury will now retire. In the next sequence, the jurors settle in and When Juror 8 is the only one to vote not-guilty, So, what do we do now? I guess we talk. Sequence three occurs as the other eleven jurors But then we get a new objective that The knife this fine upright boy admitted buying All right, let's talk about it. I'd like to see it again. Mr. Foreman? So, in sequence four, the jurors discuss the knife. This ends in a proposition by Juror #8. I want you eleven men to vote by secret written ballot. If there are eleven votes for guilty, We'll take in a guilty verdict to the judge right now. But, if anyone votes not guilty, we stay here and talk it out. Sure enough, Juror #9 changes his vote This ends when the Foreman pushes us Juror #4: Shall we continue? Well, I think we ought to take a break. One man's inside Both the characters and the audience But it's an important sequence as we learn Sequence seven starts when the break ends, and their objective is now to discuss This causes Juror #5 to change his vote to not-guilty. A new objective arises when Juror 11 wants to discuss There is a question I would like to ask. Let us assume that the boy If he really had killed his father, why would he Wouldn't he be afraid of being caught? So sequence eight involves him questioning the boy's The new objective then emerges as they And pop-ups to fall over base hits wherever we look. Did the old man say he ran to the door? I don't remember what he said, but I don't see He said he went from his bedroom to the front door. Mr. Foreman, I'd like to see a diagram of the apartment. The sequence ends with another vote being called, In the tenth sequence, we get another break Notice how it's also the first time the vote is evenly split. The next sequence starts when Juror 8 brings up Juror 4 has a hard time remembering movies Sequence 12 then starts shortly after that There's something I'd like to say. It's been bothering me a little Now the boy was five feet seven inches tall. It's a very awkward thing to stab down into the chest of Juror 5 demonstrates the real way Juror 7 changes his vote just to be able The sequence ends as Juror 8 calls for another vote. In sequence 13, there is a significant shift now sitting at 9-3 in favor of not-guilty. So we get Juror 10's racist tirade. The penultimate sequence begins We nine can't understand how - Maybe you can tell us. I'll try. Juror 4 starts this new sequence with a powerful But she got a good look at the boy This is unshakable testimony. What do you think? This is excellent screenwriting. The more Juror 8 accomplishes, The reversal comes as they discuss the woman and I have a reasonable doubt now. It's 11-1. Well, what do you want? I say he's guilty. We want to hear your argument. And notice how the finale is with Juror 3, Saving the best for last. Sure, you can take all the time but you can't prove it. I'll bet you five thousand dollars I'm telling you everything This business with the glasses? How do you know she didn't have them on? This woman testified in open court. So the lesson here: We all naturally break our stories down but don't overlook sequences. They are vital elements of your screenplay. [MUSIC] There are several moments of It's an art form that takes dialogue to a higher level. You see this a lot in Billy Wilder's dialogue as well. Characters say biting, witty comebacks You're not gonna tell me that we're supposed Listen, I've lived among them all my life. Listen, what about the woman across the street? You don't believe the boy's story. She's one of them, too, isn't she? Supposing you were the one that was on Supposing you talk us all out of this He's a common ignorant slob. He doesn't even speak good English. I beg pardon. For the same reason you're not. I mean anyone in his right mind would blow a stack. He was just trying to bait me. He did an excellent job. The boy is guilty, period. Know what I mean, my friend? Who's got those cough drops? They're all gone, my friend. This is an excellent example of why it's important You can't teach this kind of thing in a class. We must constantly expose ourselves to great work, [MUSIC] In the film for 12 Angry Men, they make it a point So I checked Reginald Rose's screenplay, the characters are simply named by juror number. There's also a note from the screenwriter himself: The notes on characters are extremely brief, since it is felt that what they are and who they are will be revealed in their dialogue and actions So a question suddenly occurred to me. How would you write 12 Angry Men as a spec script? For those that aren't familiar with the term, a speculation script is an unsolicited screenplay that's That means that it's all about conveying In the film, they cleverly have everybody but, in a screenplay, we don't have We can quickly distinguish the Foreman and also Juror 8 because he is the only one But how can we make sure the reader is able First, give us some information about their life The screenplay cleverly gives us exposition This gives us a little more insight on their background. Oh, I forgot to tell you. I'm the assistant head coach I remember I was arguing with a guy I worked He called me an idiot, so I yelled at him. I run a messenger service. The name is my wife's idea. I was only wondering how the market closed. You got a seat on the exchange? I'm a broker. I just finished painting an apartment that What was it like? Noisy? Hit 'em where they live, that's my motto. I made 27 grand last year selling marmalade. Are you a salesman? I'm an architect. You guys can talk the ears right off my head, I got three garages of mine going to pot So let's get done and get out of here. What do you do? I'm a watchmaker. Oh, really? I imagine the finest watchmakers It's a product I work on at the agency. &quot;The breakfast with a built-in bounce.&quot; I wrote that line. Second, make each character sound Characters should sound like themselves You should be able to cover up their name So let's try it out. Which juror says this? Even without the brilliant acting we see the character of Juror 3 Here's another great example. Juror 7 wants to get out of there because So look at how much of his dialogue is sports-related. This kid is five-for-oh. You stay in there and pitch. Always blowing your stacks over some guy that fanned. And the Baltimore rooter is heard from again now. And pop-ups are falling for base hits wherever we look. And we go into extra innings here, huh? Here's another pop quiz. Which juror says this all the time? This allows us to visualize Juror 10 every time And finally, as Reginald Rose declared, Despite the fact that we don't know they're still human beings that have We begin to understand their psyches For example, doesn't it become clear which juror this is? Which juror is this? Look at these lines of dialogue. And which juror is the most polite, And which juror says this powerful monologue? In addition to the fact that he's older this gives us a tremendous insight into Juror 9. After the first vote, Juror 8 stands alone He says this quite often: We can't decide in five minutes. Supposing we're wrong. Supposing they're wrong. People make mistakes. Could they be wrong? We're just gambling on probabilities. So what's his biggest fear? Well, I don't know you, but I'm betting Supposing you talk us all out of this... and the kid really did knife his father? 12 Angry Men is an important lesson of the importance of revealing character [MUSIC] I'm not sure what the correct terminology is but there's a brilliant phenomenon In moments of conflict, characters defeat A lot of this occurs as the jurors argue against Juror 8, but end up inadvertently supporting his argument. We can't decide in five minutes. Supposing we're wrong. Supposing this whole building should fall down That's right. Could they be wrong? Oh, come on. Nobody can know a thing like that. That's right. It isn't. This happens with Juror 3 several times. When they discuss the unique characteristics notice how Juror #3's anger doesn't help his cause. Juror 4: It's a very unusual knife. I've never seen one like it. Neither had the storekeeper who sold it to the boy. No, I'm just saying it's possible the boy lost his knife and that somebody else stabbed his father And I say it's not possible. [KNIFE CLICKS] Maybe there are 10 knives like that. So what? Maybe there are. Notice how he again defeats his own argument He said fifteen. What are you trying to distort? He was an old man. Half the time he was confused. And when they discuss what the old man heard Juror 3: The old man who lived downstairs says This phrase. How many times have all of Probably thousands. &quot;I could kill you for that, darling.&quot; Don't tell me he didn't mean it. Anybody says a thing You're a sadist. I'll kill him! I'll kill him! You don't really mean you'll kill me, do you? And finally, he gets desperate It's not so easy to arrange all the evidence in order. Juror 3: You can throw out all the other evidence. You're alone. Well, what about all the other evidence? What about You said we could throw out all the other evidence. 12 Angry Men is brilliant in that characters get Perhaps something to think about in our own writing. [MUSIC] 12 Angry Men breaks quite a few screenwriting rules. I'm sure you've heard all of these by now. Don't have talking heads sitting around a table. Well, what if we had them sitting around a table Show, don't Tell. How about a screenplay with almost 100% dialogue? Never introduce too many characters at once. How about twelve characters all at the same time? Make sure character names don't sound the same. What if we had character names This is a blatant disregard for these so-called rules. So why does 12 Angry Men work so well? Why are we so mesmerized by dialogue The bottom line is that it's a top-notch story. And it nails the one thing that eludes many of us. Conflict. The best, organic conflict comes that are in complete opposition to each other. In 12 Angry Men, that can't be any more true. The characters' objectives are black and white: a verdict of guilty or not-guilty. So there's guaranteed conflict I honestly think the guy's guilty. Couldn't change my mind if you talked for 100 years. Juror 10: What do you think you're going to accomplish? So, if you want to be stubborn You have sat here and voted guilty with everyone else because there are some baseball tickets Excitable? You bet I'm excitable! We're trying 12 Angry Men proves to us that you don't need fancy cameras or elaborate set pieces to create a compelling story. What you do need is an outstanding screenplay [MUSIC] There are seven brilliant moments compelling us to want to know the answer. In 12 Angry Men, it feels like So when they ask questions to figure out the truth, First, we have the knife. What automatically happens when you hear this? The knife this fine, upright boy admitted Let's talk about it. All right, let's talk about it. Let's get it in here and look at it. Don't you want to see the knife as well? And when Juror 4 says this: Now, suppose we take these facts one at a time. Don't our brains go into overdrive as we start One: the boy admitted going out of the house after being slapped several times by his father. Two: he went directly to a neighborhood Switch knives. Three: he met some friends of his in front of a tavern about 8:45. Four: they identified the death weapon Five: he arrived home at about 10:00. Now what happened to the switch knife? He claims that it fell through a hole in his pocket on the way to the movie sometime between 11:30 and 3:10. Later, as the jury starts discussing the elevated train, Has anybody any idea how long it takes an elevated train Don't you naturally start thinking of the answer yourself? So we're completely engrossed when he says this: Let's take two pieces of testimony And how about when Juror 11 starts with this? There is a question I would like to ask. Let us assume that the boy If he really had killed his father, why would he Wouldn't he be afraid of being caught? Juror 11: But, if he knew the knife could be identified, Don't we naturally start thinking the same questions? This wonderful sequence involves visual action as well. Hold on a second. Did the old man say he ran to the door? What I'd like to find out if an old man, because he had a stroke last year, can get Mr. Foreman, I'd like to see a diagram of the apartment. Juror 8: The old man was in this bedroom right here. He says he crossed to the door opened the front door just in time to see the boy Juror 10: What are you doing? Juror 2 brings up something that's been on his mind. There's something I'd like to say. I mean, it's been bothering me a little, Now, the boy was five feet seven inches tall. Did you ever see a knife fight? No. You? Anybody here ever see a knife fight? How do you use a switchblade? Well, he'd never use it like this: When they discuss the boy's memory look at how we're engaged through this entire exchange: Putting yourself in the boy's place, after an upsetting experience such as I'd like to ask you a personal question. Go ahead. My wife and I went to the movies. The Scarlet Circle. What was the second feature? Juror 4: The, uh... Who was in The Amazing Mrs. Bainbridge? Barbara Long, I think it was. Who else? And finally, in this powerful sequence, don't you I'm sure you'll pardon me for this, but I was wondering why you rub The woman who testified that she saw the had those same marks on the sides of her Juror 9: No glasses. Women do that. See if you can get the mental picture of her. iDo you wear glasses when you go to bed? No. I don't. No one wears eyeglasses to bed. And she herself testified the killing took place The lights went off a split second later. When you engage the audience you essentially have them hooked until Do this enough, and they'll be along for So, what other films would you like to Let me know in the comments below. A sincere thank-you to my wonderful patrons Also, be sure to subscribe and tap the bell More great content is on the way. Thank you so much for watching.