Let's start with some basic ideas. Who here knows, who is in control of Bitcoin? Who here thinks no one is in control of Bitcoin? This is the fundamental issue at the heart the debates about governance, Who is in charge? Bitcoin expresses a new thing, For [most] people, this is a very confusing concept; You trust the rules because you trust the Of course, appeal to authority is known as It makes us discard logic and reasoning It makes us associate as tribes, teams, whether the person expressing ideas is We all know that the enemy tribe has trying to destroy this beautiful world. Always. The problem is, of course, that everybody we are up to no good and trying to destroy the world. You see this emerging in every You see it emerging in the conversations around People find it very difficult to accept the idea that A system without authority, a system in which or what opinions they have, because I think that was demonstrated resolutely just when the rules were not changed. Again, the rules were not changed. This time, there was a very large group of people Their opinion was not right, their opinion In Bitcoin, opinions are not judged based whether they can reach consensus with the If they cannot reach consensus with the overwhelming how much money they have, how much That is how it should be. A lot of people looked at what happened a Which is not true. Bitcoin Core did not win. 'Bitcoin Core' happened to be with the side of If you don't convince the overwhelming majority the rules remain the same. All you have to do in this system is follow If you want to change the rules, you [must] Otherwise, the system will punish Everyone who tries to change the rules Core didn't win, they just didn't try to change and as a result the rules were not changed. We will see these battles happen again and In fact, the battles we've seen so far are Ivan talked about creating regulations so that people Regulations are the way we used to run governance, regulations are created by regulators. Those are rules with rulers. The good news is that they can't change the There will be regulations, but there will be regulations not of open blockchains themselves. Open blockchains are already regulated by mathematics, These are not systems without regulations; clear, transparent regulations based on mathematics. Regulations not subject to political power, That is why this system is special. It is special precisely because it cannot A lot of people don't like that. They don't like the existence of a system of the traditional controls of political power. They don't have to use it. I will. The system will not change to subject itself of a system that is outside of traditional The whole point of this system is that it is outside. The whole point of this system is that it You can regulate your country out of Bitcoin, Many countries will regulate themselves out of Bitcoin, They will end up getting the benefit of the closed and controlled blockchains, the regulated governance... and &quot;safe&quot; blockchains. I don't want safe. I want free, innovative, global, I will continue to use the system through my choice, I will participate These systems will not be regulated. When you present the world with a system that cannot this will not go down easily. A fantastic quote by Clay Shirky comes to mind: &quot;Organizations that exist to solve a problem Bitcoin fixes the problem without the organizations A lot of people see these open blockchains and finance, and payment networks. I thought so too. And yet the surprising thing is, the first thing disrupted governance and governments. It disrupts the idea of hierarchical, representative, You cannot decide how these systems operate within They do not see borders. This makes many It is not a test for Bitcoin, It is a test of democracy, of self-determination, Some governments will fail that test; of a system that empowers people to use money without censorship, without control. Many governments will fail that test; For the first time, they will be tested by a network Governance is not something It is not something that will be It is something open blockchains already do, in a new That is the fundamentally disruptive In this entire system, there [will] be There are many choices to be made at every step how to make the system more robust, resilient, cheap, who need to use systems like this. Right now, we can't do it. Right now, the open blockchains we have today cannot support the population that need to use them. That is okay, this is still the prototype. This is a nine-year-old going to school, If you've spent any time with a nine-year-old, unsteady at times, temperamental every now and then. That is how this technology That doesn't mean it can't scale, Within this nine-year-old body, you can see the future What this technology might be, to stretch It is important to separate what we have today A lot of people assume that the scalability we have I recently read this on Twitter; someone said, then in 10 years [with] a billion people, 'It will be impossible to use for most people.' If it took an hour to send a JPEG over the internet over the internet in 2017, it will take That is not how scalable, exponential systems work. But in changing the scale of this system, we [must] think This is a decision everybody has to make. You are all participants in these open blockchains. If you run the software, if you choose a wallet or an Through your actions and spending choices, you are You [must] think carefully about Do we want a system that is cheap We might have to go through a period where It is not forever, it is not a permanent state of affairs. Today it is harder to use bitcoin for everyday than it was in 2013. There is a reason for that. We are trying to do it It won't be like this forever. Already, there are many ways to improve the scalability, If you read the debates online, this is presented but as a choice between good and evil. One choice is &quot;obviously&quot; the best way; the other is Some people will even say that both choices In which case, take two steps back from In my opinion, both sides of the raging debate (in their mind) to scale this network. I personally know many of the people I have spent time working with them, Some of the most hated personalities in Bitcoin who introduced me to this, who helped me at People who I honestly and truly believe are doing We must not forget that we all share one thing from monopoly money, monopoly banking, and That is the thing we all have in common. We can disagree about the 'how,' about the 'when,' It is very easy to assume that people are Don't get me wrong -- money corrupts people But let's not not assume that everybody making or is affiliated with a company, is easily manipulated That is appeal to authority, That [can be] just as mistaken as Scaling is a difficult problem. The answers are Can we scale? Yes, but it matters 'how' we scale. Some ways of scaling have side effects that, Centralization of control is the biggest We must be very careful to ensure that, as these openness, neutrality, censorship- We avoid the concentration of power and control. Decentralization isn't a Boolean, It is a scale. Is Bitcoin fully decentralized? It is not. Is it one of the most decentralized [systems], How can we make sure that, in the future, it is At least as private as it is today or better? I talked about rules without rulers, yet there are who want to dictate rules, who want to take control. It's a natural inclination of the human species an invitation to ascend to the throne. We [must] resist that. We fall prey to that also when we make associate those opinions with their and condemn them to the opposing side. We simultaneously reflect that back on the people There [will] be a lot of people who try to in a system designed to remove intermediaries; who will try to ensure that only &quot;Will somebody please think of the children?&quot; I do think of the children. I want children to live in a world where 7.5 billion a future where everyone can participate, a world in about who is &quot;good&quot; and &quot;evil.&quot; I don't believe in Santa Claus. If you give someone the opportunity to make that gives them ultimate power. As an adult, maybe you read the story of Santa [Laughter] No one elected him. We just assigned a red-robbed dude with a white beard Let's not do that again. People will attempt to introduce controls, say that because &quot;bad people&quot; may use them. We shouldn't allow everyone to transact and Again, that fundamental splitting of the world Power is abused. My philosophy is simpler, I don't think there is absolute good or absolute evil. I think good people do evil things all the time. People change. More importantly, one of the worst things we can do We will scale. We will grow Bitcoin. They will be attacked as ideas, as networks, In some countries, [people who use them People participating in these systems today risk I've spoken to a few people who are using But that risk is worth it, because the greater risk They are willing to take that risk; there will If your government bans access to open finance, That is exactly when you need this system most. What do you need bitcoin for? You don't. You have access to banking -- unless you're an Or a Bitcoin company being shut down by the banks. Most people who come to But I hope you will see why it is necessary One of the things that is common in countries with and fair governments, strong cultural bonds, is that people who live in these countries You don't need bitcoin, but what if The problem is, banks cannot [offer] that. Banks concentrate power in the board Your board rooms, your cabinets, your parliaments Most of them [are not like] that; Part of the reason is because those If they can control money, they can Control over money is an enormous power. Countries should have separation of money and state, It seems logical, but it is not the case [today]. The countries that need this technology the most They do not have the social institutions to deliver As early users of this technology, the choice you make Thank you. [Applause]