[MUSIC PLAYING] All right, folks. Why don't we get started? All right. So I am obviously I'm Carol Saivetz. I'm a senior advisor here My area of expertise is particularly in this semester. But I wanted to welcome Chris is actually an and he is an associate professor at that lecture where he on technology, international affairs, He is the author is what he's going to The Fight for the World's a geopolitical history He is the author of three and we know each Putin's power, and money, We shall be masters Russia Asia and the struggle to save Gorbachev, and the Previously, served as an Johnson program and a lecturer at the New a visiting researcher at and a research associate at and a fellow at the German Academy received his PhD and MA from Harvard. And he's obviously So we're delighted And it will be the usual and then we'll do the if I botch or don't So OK. The floor is yours. Excellent, well Carol, for presiding It's nice to be I visit far too infrequently 10 minutes down the road, yeah. What I'd like to do is from my book, Chip War, and to start, how it was that a historian which is what I really am. I can't write a book Seven years ago, to understand drivers in during the Cold War. And I want to understand, why it was that in both the United States could produce the key military War-- nuclear weapons and Whereas by the end a clear gap had opened was recognized, actually, and then later in And that gap, and I studied were driving the gap in was not really explained by specific planes or specific capabilities. But there was a all of the new capabilities the balance of military power, was computing power. And that struck me as something blindingly obvious. We've been told really important for the On the other hand, because it seemed to me a Union couldn't produce computing the leaders of the Soviet Union was fundamentally important. And as it turns to explore the writings of or the Soviet general staff before the United beginning to realize the ways Military's application communications technologies were beginning to transform the in a way the US Military until the Persian Gulf War. But Soviet defense theorists a decade earlier. And so there wasn't a knowledge that explained why the relevant technologies There was a seemed like a little because if you'd asked me when are the ingredients need to produce computing? I would have said, well, Well, check. The Soviets had a lot You need a big budget, budgets in the world, depending on how you measure it. You need an economy that is technologies for is exactly what the Soviet to do since Stalin's in the late 1920s. And so a lot of the key were critical to producing very much present And, of course, as we emerged not in the Soviet So that struck me was more of a puzzle that the key technologies that today, not only in but in civilian systems, The first semiconductors for missile-guidance systems. The desire to miniaturize so that it could fit in was something that was willing to pay for in the And really, only the Pentagon There was extraordinary and from the missile to shrink computing power to to use it to guide And this desire to set off not only vast changes but also all of the that we take for granted today. And so it seemed that there was an interesting of semiconductors-- why it's to produce semiconductors-- on the world stage today, And, of course, critical to the production that I'll discuss, but also influence more broadly. I was doing this research of Soviet missile technology when companies were first making it of international newspapers. And these are Chinese companies was targeting for a because they were alleged to because they were in various intellectual And as the US government began on tech firms in to the surprise of many people, government, that China's leading on imported silicon from a And all advanced chips require What an extraordinary fact. The chips that power could only be produced by a machine tools that are produced in the world, all of which That seemed to me like It was a surprise to China. It was a surprise It was a surprise And over the past five of the world, I've the extent to which economy, all of our of military power, on the production of is in turn produced by just a couple of companies. No other industry is so defined by a tiny by a small set of of critical cases, one company has to produce the needed to make an advanced chip. And so I shifted from being a Union to someone who's ready by connecting those two dots, power in the shifting military and the reality that today, increasingly defined to influence and to control software, and materials If you go to the Apple and buy a new iPhone, there will be a dozen And the most important the main application have carved into the silicon 15 billion transistors. And to fit $15 on a chip the size of your is smaller than the Its most complex-- Did you say billion or million? Billion with a B. 15 billion than the size of a coronavirus. I sort of knew that but this is the most complex humans have ever undertaken. And when I began this project, as something that happens up there in the cloud. No. Computing is created by manufacturing that involves the purified materials, and specialized manufacturing undertaken, which is why there's has the expertise and the for example, in a new iPhone. That company is called TSMC, Manufacturing has 95% of its production, advanced production, in Taiwan. Taiwan today produces 90% of the chips, the type of chips that most PCs, data centers, And the island of produces over one third power the world adds each year. One small island of the world's computing power. And so as concerns grow Straits, the centrality of in Taiwan, the centrality of adds, I think, a new but also risk that if the implications will be felt beyond China. In fact, it will be felt because it will be almost any smartphones anywhere You won't have the chips. And it's not just smartphones. It's PCs, it's data centers, that we don't really think of as for example, a new car will have And as we learned over if all you have is 999 your car will not roll Now, many of the chips that There's a chip that moves It costs $0.20. Multiple companies can make it. But many of the chips in cars like chips running system or communications autonomous driving features. And here's the case that that can produce relevant and the aggregate is extraordinarily large. So I was surprised to learn that on peace in Taiwan, without be unable to but also dishwashers and coffee will be disrupted in But it turns out that the has in the production of is really far from unique in Because to make an you need to source software and materials from, of companies and countries. So today, in the chip, for it will be designed by three companies in chip design, all of which And these three companies position on chip design. You simply cannot design an software from each of And if you envision the 15 billion transistors you can understand why you software to do it. So chip software is a with really interesting Then you need to and the ability to design chips, solve the problem again, requires And it turns out that for there are just a couple have the relative expertise. So, for example, in making there are basically that are capable of making an If you're looking at making a Apple computers-- that understand how to No one else is anywhere close. They're miles behind. It's been a duopoly for for PC processors. If you want to is capable of training an AI center, well, there are just just one company that of the most advanced chips for centers, and the list goes on. So chip design has extraordinary in that segment too. Once you've got a actually manufacture the chip. And this is the hardest because manufacturing making 15 billion with, basically, You can get a couple There are some error that let you but you don't have And so the process of at this scale, both by the but also at the that's billionths of a meter-- requires the most precise ever made. Some of the tools that you need include machines that thin films of materials thick with basically Really hard to do. You also need machines into the silicon as you also a couple of atoms wide. Again, something But the most complex needed to manufacture is called an extreme Lithography is the process or shooting photons The mask, like a mask will let light through and not through other parts. You want to pattern you use a similar mask, through in certain places and The light then reacts with or wash away, and that's how In the past, when was in its early was done using has a wavelength of depending on its color. But today, light of several nanometers is far shapes on silicon that nanometers in size. So today, we use a type of light, close to And because it's close it's very difficult and to reflect so that it So today, inside produce extreme there is a ball of tin falling pulverized twice by one of produced for a The tin explodes into a plasma than the surface of the sun. The plasma emits this at exactly the precise It's collected by a dozen humans have ever made-- made reflect this it's directed towards and carves the transistors that, These machines took They cost $150 million apiece. They require multiple and they're monopolized the only company in the world Once you've got the need to get the Now silicon, thankfully, is in the Earth's crust, so we've But lots of gases and chemicals need to be perfectly pure. Perfectly pure because we're already dealing with is causing defects So if you have any impurities it will cause defects in And so the ability with almost perfect that only a small number largely Japanese companies. And then, you need to bring software, tools, designs, to actually This is why an advanced costs around $20 of the most expensive It's also why there are are anywhere close to produce advanced Intel in the United States, and in the leading No one else is close. No one else will soon because the amount and the ordinary needed to manufacture So chip making is pretty [LAUGHTER] Pretty interesting And I think it would have It was just to understand, But it turns out that the is increasingly politicized. It's been politicized because the industry military industrial complex. But the process of commercially-available chip, had four transistors on with chips with $15 billion That is a process by political choices in the The chip industry emerged primarily, with a bit in the Boston area. But over the past it's internationalized. People often say true for some very specific Internationalized. And it internationalized The countries besides that play a critical are all close US allies, or in And that's not a coincidence of the Cold War, has been very to bind other countries into electronics and And similarly, key countries like Taiwan, like, have deliberately in electronic supply chains and to bind themselves It's not a coincidence, that as United States was and as discussion was ramping up about pulling that Asian elites in Taiwan doubled down on their bets precisely to get more US The argument was in that it wasn't clear whether the United States would especially as from Taipei to Beijing. But if Texas Instruments maybe the US be more That was a deliberate by key governments in Asia and And there's great documentation for example, of really open Yew in Singapore about the geostrategic benefits American chip making So the internationalization that stretches from the US was a deliberate construction of policies pursued and by the US government. And that system worked very, It produced the have driven the concept known as Moore, one of the who predicted in 1965 that the would double every year or two. And that prediction over the one decade time horizon but it's proven true a doubling of computing which is possible extraordinary efficiencies that this very complex chain where the Dutch company American machine tool firms equipment. California firms design chips. Taiwanese firms This specialization has absolutely brilliant. But in the past politics has begun to intrude in ways that were unexpected The first challenge, the to the contemporary shape of came from China. Today, the Chinese government are their most important China spends as much money as it spends importing oil. There's no product that China And China imports can't make advanced which is not a surprise. It's really hard to do. No one can make except for Taiwan. People always ask me, Answer is well, no Everyone's falling It's nothing about China. It's about the rest of on what Taiwan can produce. But the reality is fear that their reliance was not only an economic a strategic vulnerability. And they're probably It's a very rational They're looking at that the key components to industry, all of their are being imported exclusively What a horrible And so in 2014, Xi Jinping launched a number of to wean China off and build up domestic And so there were a number at the national level, but also designed to pour probably on the low tens of into China's chip industry. And this began to set off alarm off in Taiwan, in Japan, States, which was concerned program might succeed at winning and threatening the and also giving China access Because although the had predominantly spent the about smartphones and PCs today consume almost all chips, and the military in were also very aware were small consumers chips were increasingly Because like the and we talk about the internet devices-- well, the military devices that that must have computers talk to other devices. And so just as the is getting networked together, And there's been, of between computing and military capabilities It's not just the earlier of the first chips systems. It's also if you think in Bletchley Park that were War II. There's been a between computing to intelligence And so the US was looking to move forward in building well, this is guaranteed If the gap between US and Chinese there will be for both intelligence That's especially true because the US launched what's called which was a strategy that Chinese capabilities in terms of deploying with more capable US heavily on technology. And the technologies were, above all, using capabilities and thinking about potentially fully-autonomous And just like if you to drive autonomously, of semiconductors and to train that car. So too if you want to train you need access to very advanced to train the drone to fly. And so the US to bat an eye military strategy just as it to substantially narrow the gap capabilities and Chinese And so there was, from the a direct implication as to whether China's efforts As a result of that, has responded with a number One is the CHIPS Act, to put more money into the first as an insurance there is a war in and second, to try to in the chip industry technological And then second, to restrict to Chinese chip firms. And, in particular, the US is the software tools and the machine tools Because all the software and because all of the are produced either in the US the West, in aggregate, over whether or not you can And for many technologies, because they can be produced there's multiple producers, but given the unique skill sets, intensity, given the very, creating your own version of is not easy. In fact, it's very, very hard. No one's done it. No one's even trying to do it, And that suggests-- that that controls on the software would have a meaningful China's capabilities. And so this combination of subsidizing more, while simultaneously trying by restricting the is, right now, reshaping Five years ago, every Japanese, Korean, money in mainland China. Today, that investment has Five years ago, had R&amp;D facilities in China. Today, that's basically There's a couple of legacy but the direction of And so when it comes we're seeing right now is-- I hesitate to use the seeing decoupling in action. The industries are at least at the cutting edge. The United States is going to try to limit the in the chip industry. It's put multiple on the brink of bankruptcy of tools and technologies. And I think it's probably to move even further because that the future and the future of will depend on computing. Future computing defense And therefore, the to the world's most is not just a question of or to your dishwasher but also a question to the future balance of influence in the modern world. So I'll stop there. Perhaps I'll open up Fantastic. Guys, I do not know a but I will point, and OK, please go ahead. Yeah. I'm Austin Cooper. I'm a postdoc. Thanks for this So my question is I'm going to ask But do you think the chips-- I mean, do you think the Do you think it could do you think-- I about how difficult this There's the capital investment. There's the If the US policy elites on on the security to fund a US industrial manufacturing, do you think nationalize this Not-- I mean-- be sure it. Yes. I think the question of, needs to start with the So self sufficiency Hands down. The goal is not to domesticate You can find a couple of of Congress who l but the ones who wrote the The people implementing So self sufficiency is I think there are two And this is not my-- this is not me saying, these This is my assessment of One is to buy an in case of a disruption to produce or export chips. And two is to boost and the amount of innovation in the chip industry. So on the first, produces 10-ish percent consumes 25-ish percent. And Taiwan is In basically all types of So the goal that the US is to increase on the margin in the US, maybe to go alongside similar efforts in and South Korea. And so I think although the numbers, and I don't think even stating numbers think if you look at the by all these and ask, in 10 years time, what there are produced in Taiwan? the goal is to get that So not complete without any disruption was a war in the Taiwan We should have more capacity That's a very different But the CHIPS Act has $39 As I mentioned, one new facility so it's just-- it's not But if you wanted to buy and build in the would cost hundreds of and Congress is not Possibly even more. So the amount of capacity that you need to want a perfectly-effective is probably too expensive to stomach. Certainly, it's far beyond what So that's the Then on the, can produce more not only research, I think here, the The Commerce Department is still their R&amp;D efforts. I think we'll have how they structure things to or not. Certainly, there's of the US government very effectively in If you look at a semiconductor, has been funded by All the tools. All the chip designs. My book, I have a line shaped the transistors because the transition to 3D transistors, which was funded by-- was So there's a long track record money wisely in terms But I think it's also the case trying to accomplish on the but ultimately, more And so I think that's the other probably harder to do So I'm fairly confident that in more fab construction on Taiwan on the margins, can a binary. I'm less confident, going to get more R&amp;D in at the end, but I'm less than I am on the Taiwan Oh. Thanks, Carol. Chris, this was fantastic. Thank you so much. And I'm a total Luddite, so So I apologize in advance. This is a silly wondering how the TSMC fits into your And one thing that is it strikes me that because they have an enormous because they're indigenous And so one incentive-- I get the US side of does Taiwan have Yeah, exactly. Can you explain this puzzle? I'm just curious about it. Yes. So TSMC, four years a process of opening It's a medium-sized facility announcements, it will So not the most cutting edge, So all of the R&amp;D into technologies-- so TSMC introduces a able to make So all that R&amp;D today And under current will continue So right now, the Taiwan is going to be a of the overall will be pretty dependent operation of the facilities So I would say it's not nothing, dramatically changing Now, you ask about It's a really because right now the trying to convince going to defend Taiwan. And so all of Nancy these are all part of a of making our deterrence more while simultaneously that we'd like their most of its production And so Taiwan, 40% of Most of that is TSMC, publicly-listed company in Asia. It's hard to differentiate from TSMC'S economic success, or And so there's a diplomatic discussion underway and Taiwanese government about But I recommend to you a on the dinner that with Morris Chang, the founder brings to light some of this relationship. Thanks, man. Right. Thank you so much. I'm a fourth-year PhD student. So it's a bit out but I'm going to ask you to Scenario one, there is a and the TSMC facilities What does that roughly And scenario two, there's and China captures the So because the facilities are-- if you or I walked and saw the machines, we'd We'd have no idea what to do. And if you're an that has used machines because there are and you walked into-- you So a lot of the machine work because they're constantly sold them. And so the way the servicing is they break it Your spare parts, you're not So the companies that know where all their tools are. So one of the companies that of the things I did of the gentlemen who is in The tool that was brought they sold, I think, knew, three decades later, Because you can't operate these servicing. So you need the to keep the tools working. You need the material and a little bit from to keep the facilities working. And TSMC'S customers are all Most of the wafers that TSMC You need the personnel there. You need them all to do their and you don't need very many So I think the likelihood the facilities but the likelihood that China I think we can-- I take probability seriously. I think we can put it And destroys the I think the about to succeed the likelihood that somebody I think, seems plausible. I can think of multiple have an interest in doing so. Thank you. I'm [INAUDIBLE]. I'm a visiting I really enjoyed your book. It's a great read, but it was a There's a lot about the and the history of the industry. And so now, you start a contemporary issues. So I have three questions. The first one is on You start out the book by the industry here. But now, when you answer you talk about the is not self sufficiency. So you're basically then talking and the US. But you think That's the first question. What do you mean by working? With China. With China. That it's possible to in the semiconductor industry. So that's the first question. And then if that is possible is that increasing the Because to me, if you're development of decoupling technology, they also know to win a war in So you see this sort of to wage war. And if they do so and they do even though after Samsung, attack on the Netherlands, will be relatively better off? Because then, are much more dependent on this So then you're back during the Cold War, the So the third question You call it a Chip War. But when you read the book, it's And you're moving into or what you call And before that, it was a race. I don't see a war. So can you explain in this book and your OK. So on the question try to decouple China from I think to start it comes to doesn't produce a large Those that it produces are at this point, probably a In aggregate, across the machine tools, China produces around 6% or 7% There's nothing that be produced elsewhere. That's an interesting And so I think probably to be objective, it seems like is not that hard because in semiconductors. Now, that's different Electronics is-- semiconductors and PCs and printers, and these So the reason China spends as oil is partly because but also probably it needs to put in our iPhones and And so it's a very can you decouple China from or machinery supply chains? That's a very, very Now, what the US the ideal from is to keep China completely which are the high-value stuff in the display. Keep lower-value stuff simpler components, and not shifts in supply chain. That's the optimal strategy But from China's seems like a pretty if the goal is to to higher-value production as well as for So I think the question is, how far is the US willing to and what is China willing to to stop it from Now, China is clearly going and will spend a lot of key technologies. And it's going to, how to produce some of them. The thing about that is unique from is that the moves so rapidly that to catch up to a static target. You're trying to catch up to And so historically, that's made to catch up. That's why, again, as I can't China catch It's, why is everyone else The trend has been to and so the assumption that China edge in 10-years time seems like given that the trend ten years is that Japan, the US, et cetera-- have rather than caught up. And the situation that is that it's unable to pursue worked in South Korea. And those strategies were to in international supply chains. Buy tools from the sell to the best customers. Trying to do it all on seems like a very, very and I think that because I prefer not to have to So real preference suggests and they're unhappy So all of that makes me is not the base case. I just don't-- I don't see given the structure given the trend given the unique challenges and given the reality that, yes, across many industries, it's a minnow. It's a small player. It has less market share than than Japan, less And so that, I think, ought of China's catch-up. And I could be wrong. Obviously, there's But it seems to me-- I started with the assumption, Everyone uses WeChat, therefore And that is an think withstands very serious-- on the question of So I think if Chinese then I think you could be right to hold back China does bring willingness to take risks now I think first off, I'm not accept my analysis. It seems to me that the thinks they can catch up. And I'm repeatedly struck people in the tell me and say publicly and the messages that by political leaders. And I think it's now, the Chinese billions of dollars. And their question is, if we will you catch up? [LAUGHTER] Why not? Gladly I'll catch up. So I think they're on the likelihood of catch-up. But I could be wrong, and that's rather than an would stand strongly behind. I think also that the seems to me to be And what I mean by that is asked is, well, the US cut off and then they bombed And that, to me, just seems situation. It wouldn't have been possible by early 1942 had there Whereas all the US your data center companies can't You can buy less talking about of coming to China-- car chips-- totally unaffected. It's just specific chips centers will be impacted. The level of knowledge in any country So my sense is that aren't nearly as fixated on fixated on oil supplies. And I think that's because there is some because there's uncertainty develops and about the to military systems. And so although I've as to how the ability to will impact the I think there's about the 10-year I don't think it dramatically would be willing to risk. So, Chris. First, great talk. Two, I want to push So Deloitte has survey semiconductors-- and their numbers actually show it's not the highest comparable to South Korea, That's chip production, right? Yeah. Semiconductors. And I'm noting that because the is just that they Again, we agree on the But overall, they're a and the rate of growth That's the first point. Second point is that, let's about war. What about the on Chinese incentives to to do stuff? So let's not focus on It takes longer than that. But if you're talking has displayed remarkable to develop autonomous in bio and other areas. And if we're squeezing the to reduce their that third-party pressure the effect of-- logically-- Chinese independent capacity. We would do the same. They are dependent on the And are we, in fact, in the short term might in our supplies, frankly, and over the long increase China's incentives capacity to stand apart? So on the first question on China is a medium-sized But if you look at so the tools that go if you want to make a you'd be using machine tools and the Netherlands. Chemicals imported from So across the supply chain, and almost all of the is done on imported tools. So yes, they're building a But it's the supply The hard part is Building low-end that multiple countries do. So I think the fact that production happening change my emphasis on, look at in the supply chain. The fact that there's can't be replicated outside. Look at the fact that China's rely fundamentally on That is a really important part. Now, as you say, does China to develop the machine tools? Absolutely. Absolutely, it does. And so the question how strong is that incentive? Who is that incentive felt by-- companies versus governments? And, what are the time Regarding time horizons, China's had an incentive. So the US first began exports to certain Chinese five years ago. And in that time, that Chinese firms have in catching up to cutting edge at catching up to They made progress, has moved forward so far as any sort of analysis the same. If you're a Chinese company, are made by private companies, and to sell them, not the production and development And so what we found Chinese firms can access foreign They make backup keep accessing foreign tools. That's been the experience Will that change On the margin, it will. But I guess I'm struck by the express continued desire is why China's now one in some cases, the biggest makers in the US, in Japan, And so then the what's the time horizon can domesticate relevant tools? We think these tools are They're really hard to because I've described it look at the industry, there produce the most One in the Netherlands, three They've been in the market in some cases 50 years. Their competitive modes and they're extraordinary of the engineering for absolute precision is so high. And reliability is something like myself don't normally we've got hundreds of thousands I don't know if you know The laser system, which is just machine, has 457,000 components. That's just one of So in aggregate, call it, a million components. If each one of those the machine never works. So we're not just talking replicating this once in a lab. You need to replicate works all the time with, So as I think about hard things to replicate. I think this is the hardest to of machinery. And that's why, I on this being just very to replicate over the And again, the is set by the rate at which That's the other aspect I'm [INAUDIBLE]. I'm actually an [INAUDIBLE] design. So all the historical that you encourage be internationalized So why did the US to facilitate the research of in US-native allies? So I think the US had At least, there's The US government had to try to bind Taiwan, by having more semiconductor from the '60s up to the present. That was the US Now, you're right that if the US government would you like in Taiwan or in the US? But at the time that both in terms of and in terms of its role it was 1990s, the 2000s, when, &quot;I want more risk&quot; was not The US government, for basically stopped thinking Companies involved Rightly or wrongly, interested in these issues. And so the risks they were earthquakes, not wars. And TSMC is such an Their ability to produce after year with basically no They produce better chips at a service than anyone. And so their customers-- Apple, AMD, Nvidia, very supportive of their what made smartphones possible. TSMC is what-- they make all And so from industry's It worked great until people and Tokyo started thinking about And I think especially as to shift in the Taiwan then concerns about US reliance, coming from Taiwan on what otherwise the industry far into the future. And so the industry right now I think, a new political reality and certainly weren't expecting. John. Yeah. Chris, thank you so much. John [INAUDIBLE],, PhD student Awesome presentation. I also love the book. I thought it was great. I just love your thoughts in particular whether reached at least a or there is more If there's more to come, will it restricting maybe DUV or Or will it be broader, like battery technology And then I guess just related has secured some from the Dutch and I just wonder if there isn't controls, is there really of defection from and who would be the that we would care about So I think on the allied I think there is-- the is that they're super tactical think about export controls when whereas companies think And so one of the dynamics is you assume regular to weaken export controls, and once every six months. And so I think one interesting and the Netherlands And so I think it will in one year's time at in what shifted. There's a lot of really, with these export controls. You need to understand between different types or there's multiple which is the previous generation Politicians now understand. They at least know But I think I'm not to say that the is not particularly deep. So I think that's an the corporate lobbying forces. In terms of allied I think the been-- the headline succeeds in pressuring to join China chip war.&quot; I think that's an inaccurate for Japan. I think if you read the METI in Washington in you will find as on what METI calls &quot;economic leader in a very long time. So I think Japan has gone on its own over the past has paralleled the US shifts. But the interviews I did with they said, you helped us understand And so I think American &quot;US asks Japan to do this.&quot; I'm not sure that's I'm really not sure that's With Korea and Taiwan, they're Taiwan we talked about considerations that are at play. It's a really tricky balance Taiwan needs both to keep China for economic reasons. It needs them for It needs to show the on its own defense in into its defense, want to bear excessive That's the calculus in Taiwan. In Korea, I think it's Korea produces primarily are more commoditized chips. And one of the types NAND memory chips is-- is a longer-term storage chip-- is where there was a Chinese at the cutting edge, about to this year. And so the greatest of the latest US export controls that were just about Because it's commodity high volume, low where China was best placed And so Korea, I think, is that the US has some of its critical commercial Also, Korea doesn't any of the technologies that So the machine tools are The EDA tools, design tools, Most of the-- really, certainly, most chips that are being restricted There are some small That's generally true. The one place where Korean is a couple of Korean firms have and now they've got will the US let to production owned and operated by Koreans? Thus far, the but there's some So that's how Korea But for all of the the story is never as simple as, There's a lot of domestic, commercial, political, which is why this has been The media gloss Biden administration fails to system, therefore That's not the Thanks. I'm a scientist and So I'm wondering on the tension between and the that require this but also the need Yeah. Great question. It's tricky because startups and innovation. And yet, in the said, in key segments you actually have oligopoly positions. And in a lot of segments the capital passivity means hard to imagine. You're not going to raise There's just no way, even if Unless you're in China, you're So that does present In chip design, the capital So chip design, you need which are expensive, but of thousands or low millions, for your first or year. And so you've seen a lot more space, and that's also where can make progress, so most of the startup action. There also is some happening space for specific components. So if you learn how to of the deposition processes better, you can and sell it to one And so you see a lot by the big machine and also by the big buying smaller firms into these broader systems. Whether that's an is an interesting question. I think it's just given of the machine tool I struggle to see alternatives. There's a question That might be me. So I'm interested in how between n and n minus 1 is for It was obviously a pretty long I'm assuming, between new and it being integrated into So what are the downstream of being at n minus 1? Yeah I think the simplest versus n minus 1 is versus a two-year-old iPhone. Because that basically gets So one differential is not huge. You get slightly better battery You get a couple but it's not-- it's If you're 10 years behind, Remember iPhones were-- when streaming video wasn't a thing. It was impossible to stream If you're 20 years still playing Snake So but yeah, a single node except probably in data centers. And so we think of-- here's the thing. We think of weapons buildings where You can make an airplane. I think in 30 years' to realize that weapons are data centers where you're going to operate more effectively. And we already see this with We don't really realize. They're designed and the AI That's where cars You learn how to drive by running through a data center. That's where ChatGPT learns It's in a data center. And that's where drones and sensors learn how to Computer vision to recognize cats versus It's all in data centers. And so, I think, if you accept the weapons factory then having a better data center And if you look at the way that invest, they're always buying Now, is it possible going to be the most cutting when it comes to AI chips or Is it possible you just eight times as large and can do And I think that might Data centers don't without losing efficiency, But could we see China trying That's interesting But I don't think and I think I'm well in asserting that if you being n minus 5 is a real if it's not just one facility, And so I think a ask the efficacy of the for military systems I think it's going to be is China n minus 3 Because Jake as he laid it out in is to grow the gap with China. So right now, China can 10 or 7 nanometers at home, So there's a The US government wants to by the middle of the decade. And so the extent to or whether it stays a three or is actually probably a I struggle to have a confident the gap will be, but I think it for creating AI systems. It's basically same-- One thing you didn't So I [INAUDIBLE]---- the market right? Being ahead power though [INAUDIBLE]. But how much does it really are services-- services who are actually using in [INAUDIBLE] acquisition. Yes. So I think first off, jet that's flying for 30 get upgraded. So that's one thing. But it's certainly true that the is a lot longer than the And I think that is a going to get down to like we have for iPhones But if you talk about do we have too much emphasis and not enough on smaller cycles. That is where, I are you accessing the most does come into play. I think there's also if you think about is we understand that there's chip and when it gets So an empirical question to is, is the gap larger So a cutting-edge duel-use Does it end up in a Chinese on average? That's an interesting I don't even know how to any one of us. But that's also an interesting But I think you're right to say about keeping critically dependent on possible to capabilities. Yeah. And this is something that I guess it does OK in comparison players, but I think Go for it. The other thing what is-- can you be more China might be producing? Is that designed for Where are those chips going? Yeah, it'd be like iPads. I think that will probably be uses as well. Right now, the US and that became too expensive. We have enough money to build but not our own And then, the US government that they operated with but even that's getting really foundries are now multiple edge. And so there's a desire with cutting-edge companies. The challenge right all in other countries with That's also a big issue. Thanks so much for your talk. You began by talking about able to close the computer see the need for it in advance. And it seems to me the is about barriers to entry. And I want to are as a member of a that states have competed in. So that's a long list of that they've competed over. And I think of centrifuges-- special materials you internationally regulated, But there, it's a because you can steal a design I assume you can It matters less. So the nature of the probably varies by technology, is the special barrier to from other things-- and I'm inferring this-- is the rate of change it's where the changes are is to say this rapid and the integrated nature And I guess I'm just skeptical-- I guess my question a member of a class what are other Technologies where able to catch up if they thought and they had time and money. And by implication, computers Yes? Yes, right. Right. So yeah. That's a question I spend a I don't know that I've got answer, but I'll give that I've been developing So first off, I think that there that has demonstrated Moore's a century. Imagine if airplanes flew We can't imagine it. Nowhere else do you get improvements at such Some industries have two years But now, we're on decade So I do think there is something got us from four transistors to 15 billion today. I haven't found operates with exactly the but maybe someone has. So I think that's part of it. I think second is, certain types of that have really require really a where it does seem like Jet engines is the Now, maybe that's the only so I think it's not a good one. But I think there are some between the two. I guess my real going to argue that this is a I guess I wrote a book with [INAUDIBLE] need Yeah, I mean, I think assert that I've struggled Law in any other industry. DNA sequencing and synthesis-- Could be. It could be happening right now. That's happening now. That's right. That's now-- I think, yeah. Your point is beautiful. I'm thinking 15 years were talking about how long And the clincher back then was, don't you predicting that Moore's Law-- you're going to be talking per chip. Obviously, absurd. Hi, Chris. Nice to meet you again. I'm Diana, a third-year PhD. My question is actually on where within an industry. So how would you-- so you it was the US investment going Japan, Taiwan, Singapore's-- the semiconductors How would you describe within the industry now? Is there still this of US-guided or US-led, and Or within the five countries they are sharing powers equally basically on the same levels? That's a really good question. I think-- so the downstream industry-- the companies that are buying are paying to have chips are largely US firms. So Apple, AMD, Nvidia, There's one big Taiwanese But the big ones are US firms. So in some ways, may call some of the shots. But I wouldn't because you need so it limits the There are no other options. And TSMC, you can go to pretty close to but most companies, I go to Samsung so they can And they prefer to go to I think it's the So I wouldn't say today is sort of dictating-- US firms dictate the industry. But if you look across US firms are 45% of revenue, player with Taiwan, So the US is still the is the metaphor to use or what. But it's certainly, the US in terms of size. So we have at least John, you just and we have five minutes left. So let's do it right. So there were two Let's do those two, And then obviously-- So my question is see China tolerate that the US are running? The chip war is But obviously, reduced that Apple and everyone and all of the other countries. So for how long do you or where do you see Yeah. This question may not be fair but you talked a lot not being able to In particular, folks not being TSMC is the star How and why? How? Not here, but does TSMC end up as head to shoulders, the way above everyone else? Yeah. So take those questions-- 30 seconds each. Exactly. Sorry. So TSMC started, it in the world that was manufacturing. They had a new business let it scale far gaining economies of but also technological terms. Because the more the more you hone your and so that has let it and most advanced chip maker. So smart business model is the 30-second answer. In terms of electronics, it's still an open question in electronics assembly Right now, most electronics PCs, smartphones, et cetera. It's certainly the case most big OEMs have made about new investment in India, cetera. I think the fact that public and costly steps going to be some shift in And it's an open question as Is it that 20% of production Does 40%? I don't know the think it's a really You ask, will China tolerate it? Well what exactly-- what's the The challenge that trying to keep foreign And it's trying to keep And so disruptive hastens the process And so that's why I described in the is in a position of escalation Because the US is and China can't retaliate will cause companies on Right. It's a variation of The only part I have-- excellent talk. The only part I have difficulty I'm reading from your talk have no option but to That part I have on how we know China reacts. But maybe the wants to think is in the temporal what and you mentioned So, Chris, great talk. I've heard this virtually and I think you just with that last comment, but So S-- good research around would be for China to invade. You made a good comment about But a Chinese punishment is still brought up as Why wouldn't these on the target list? What deters the Chinese these facilities? Yes. I think the answer to that power China's economy. Just like the rest of us, Now, we can debate to what Maybe it's more than-- More versus less. I don't know. But if TSMC's facilities we'd all be in a So we can sort of There would be hardly produced the next year. All business wiped out. PC production Data centers, telecom cell phone towers. And then cars. The last two years, caused by a surge in demand. So the world produced in 2020, a double-digit in chip production in 2021. We had a chip shortage And as demand surged faced over $200 globally in a year more chips than previously. So try to source 1,000 which produces one third So economic interests Well, I don't know if but the answer to your question it will be-- from this type of strategy, it OK. But we can debate So the only thing that;s left is [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]