In the late 80s and early 90s, a group of formed a collective called the Native Tongues. This collective included hip hop groups like Quest, Queen Latifah, Monie Love, Black Sheep, Chi Ali, The Beatnuts, Da Bush Babees, Fu-Schinkens, The Native Tongues represent an expansion a new focus. It's an incredibly influential period of Pharrell, Outkast, Kanye, J Dilla, The Black of the late 90s. Oh, and also, it's some of the best music a Collective, the story of their formation, breaking down samples, seeing their direct showing how this movement expanded the entire This story begins in 1988, and the expansion On one side, in LA, we have the release of Compton". This album gave a rough, unfiltered look at of Nixon's "War on Drugs". NWA openly said "F*** the Police" and Group" This album solidified West Coast of NWA members like Easy E, Ice Cube, and the world, is difficult to overstate. Now here's the other side of this coin: of what would go on to be considered the first the release of "Straight Out The Jungle" By contrast, the music of The Native Tongues and has more positive, afrocentric themes, it "set so many of us free". Both of these albums dealt with the reality but approached it in very different ways. These two albums and scenes splinter off in a little fun with both. So let's talk about the Jungle Brothers. The JB's are made up of Afrika Baby Bam, ways, the perfect group to continue to push Mike G sites groups like the Cold Crush Brothers Afrika Baby Bam gets his moniker from Afrika influence can be heard directly on the Jungle You" And then there's Mike G's uncle, the legendary Red Alert was a radio disc jockey at 98.7 hip hop scene, and a mentor to the Jungle Red Alert gave the group not only radio airtime, to keep a crowd entertained while performing, way that had a big impact on the Jungle Brothers. As Afrika explains, Perhaps this is why the Jungle Brothers weren't outfits, wandering around the "jungle" DJ Red Alert was also a member of Afrika Bambaataa's unity and cultural awareness through hip-hop. The Zulu nation influence can be seen not other Native Tongues groups. Red Alert is a crucial part of not only hip as he gave new artists like A Tribe Called first radio airplay. But we'll talk about them in just a moment. Before we do, we gotta talk about the next De La Soul is made up of Posdnuos, Trugoy who met in high school in the Amityville area The group formed in 1988, and soon a chance to a collaboration. As Dave recalled, Now, we're gonna talk about the song "Buddy" of The Native Tongues, but before we do, let's Feet High and Rising" The sound and lyrical themes on this album very lighthearted, playful, and more laid And the group's specific location allowed Dave recalls viewing hip hop from afar in up in the Bronx, De La Soul would have turned After forming De La Soul together, the group in town - Prince Paul, who was also a part This group would pave the way for the Roots, beatboxing, and a variety of musical styles. But when it came to Stetasonic, Prince Paul too juvenile for the group. Producing with De La Soul allowed him to have they could think of. And while Pos looks back on the recording praising Prince Paul for his ability to be start over, Prince Paul has said that from as he was going and describes it as "the "3 Feet High and Rising" features extensive as Johnny Cash, Steeley Dan, Hall &amp; Oates, Take the song "The Magic Number" - this Johnny Cash, the Fatback Band, James Brown, The end result is amazing, and this open use BUT because of sampling laws, a couple things For one, there were lawsuits like when "The It was over a short sample included in the that De La Soul forgot to mention to the label, The Turtles caught it and sued successfully, Side tangent: 3 Feet High and Rising is the and not worrying about clearing samples, just It's a CLASSIC album. But because of sample clearance and label streaming, leaving a massive gap in music Fortunately, things have changed, and on March be available on streaming - but imagine what sampling laws allowed for blanket licensing. Imagine how much better THESE videos would about and not be concerned about getting this I know this is the game I've chosen to play. But come on. Alright, side tangent over. It's through De La Soul that we get into One night Afrika Baby Bam of the Jungle Brothers group, telling him that he had to come over It was 2 in the morning, but he went over This guy's name? Q Tip from a group that called themselves I know right now you're like, "This white "Oh I love a group that calls themselves at that point - just "Quest". It was Afrika Baby Bam who would tell them "A Tribe Called Quest" Q Tip recalled the first time he went over out with the Jungle Brothers, A Dawg, Ali Shaheed Muhammad, and Jarobi White, album. These three groups, The Jungle Brothers, De a loose collective, influencing each other's grooves, positive, playful, afrocentric lyrics, songs. Each group released multiple albums, further encompass other groups and artists. More on that in a minute. These three groups began hanging out more, goal other than to make great music. As Phife recalled, But these first three albums - "Straight Out Rising" in 1989, and "People's Instinctive mark the beginning of the Native Tongues collective, and a new beginning for what was possible These three groups had a massive impact on the 1990s, but ALL music through the 1990s, All of the groups or producers of all the Kanye Kendrick) have cited The Native Tongues But it's not just the music that was different. And it's not even just the lyrics. While groups like Run DMC had worn gold chains raiders jackets, the Native Tongues went for the beginning, sporting colorful African prints, While other hip hop groups like NWA met the with direct clashing and confrontation, the rejecting it and instead focusing on themes I'm not black, so I can't speak to this of representation. So I'll point to a few excellent, powerful Pharrell says the Native Tongues set him free. In the book "The Native Tongues Review" and how the first line of Straight out the is all he wanted to be. Hanif Abdurraqib wrote an entire book as a they meant to him and a generation of African The name "Native Tongues" is pulled from from 1972, with lyrics that list out what transatlantic slave trade, including "Took to our young." The Native Tongues expanded hip hop by introducing and showing that hip hop was not a monolith. It's a completely different reaction to 80s and early 90s, and resonated with a lot Also, again, it's just some of the best And there are still so many Native Tongues Queen Latifah was another member of the Native Hail the Queen" in 1989, which includes The song "Mama Gave Birth to the Soul Children" features Monie Love, ANOTHER Native Tongues her own debut album "Down to Earth" in There are other guest appearances of Native well. The Jungle Brothers' "Black is Black" off of 3 Feet High, oh, "A Roller Skating Q-Tip and Vinia Mojica, who is featured on But the song with the most original Native of De La's 3 Feet High, which features Tribe, Or take the group "Black Sheep" There's still so much to cover. Leaders of the New School (whose most famous Brand Nubian, The Beatnuts, Chi Ali, Fu-Schnickens, Not only that, the other members already listed And there's another crucial player who had records, and MANY records since. Bob Power, engineered and mixed many Native Fu-Schnickens, Da Bush Babees, and has also D'Angelo, The Roots, Erykah Badu, Common, But by 1993, the Native Tongues seemed to The Jungle Brothers' third album, "J Beez and wasn't received particularly well. Q Tip has said that Tribe's second album, the Native Tongues stereotype, and on De La Mindstate, Posdnuos says "that native shit But, like every good movement, the Native De La Soul's fourth album "Stakes is High" who would go on to collaborate with Talib as well as solo albums after that. Another track features Common, who, when releasing said that he and producer No I.D. tried to quote "make some cold-blooded shit And then there was J Dilla, who joined Q-Tip the Ummah, a production collective who produced stuff, and propelled J Dilla to a new level. Everyone I just mentioned from the next generation collective formed in the late 90s with Questlove Tongues started in many ways. But that's already in a bunch of other videos. Other people influenced by the Native Tongues Planets, Lauryn Hill, Pharrell, Lupe Fiasco, to be a street tribe, like a hood tribe". Will.i.am said the recipe for every Black Skating Jam" Called Saturdays" by De La The Native Tongues expanded hip hop, music, There's still so much to talk about in each an eye out for more Native Tongues deep dive In the meantime, check out the Spotify listening The Native Tongues influence is massive, and different artists, including the Soulquarians But for that story, you'll have to watch