Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard, where we lives of those who lived to entertain us, Today we continue our tour of New York such stars as Joan Crawford, Ed Sullivan, Join us won't you? After several days and countless miles boroughs of New York City it's time to north to Westchester County. The first Westchester Hills Cemetery and Temple Ferncliff Cemetery. If you haven't done 2 &amp; 3 of our tour of New York. Westchester Hills Cemetery is a Jewish created in 1919 when the Stephen Wise portion of the Mount Hope Cemetery. Stephen Wise was a rabbi now entombed Following the main road from the mausoleum where George Gershwin is the great American composers of the 20th 1919 famously sung by Al Jolson. [music] In the1920s he began composing for Broadway, musicals like Strike Up the Band, composed his first major classical work, which established him as a serious popular work. [music] Gershwin was unique in that he imbued compositions. This can also be seen in An American in Paris, inspired by his time starring Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron. One opera Porgy and Bess, considered today 20th century. It too was later made into His later years were spent in Hollywood In 1937 Gershwin began to exhibit cognitive problems, and in July fell into brain tumor. A film was made about the life of Gershwin that such an incredible legacy was left George often worked with his brother, Ira, who is lyrics for many of George's musicals and &quot;I Got Rhythm,&quot; and &quot;Someone to Watch Over Me.&quot; He also co-wrote the libretto for Porgy worked with other songwriters, including He was nominated for three Oscars for his songs. Across the street to the north is the Billy Rose mausoleum. Rose was a Among the songs he wrote lyrics for are, and &quot;It's Only a Paper Moon.&quot; He went on to become a Broadway producer, featured live elephants on stage. In 1943 all-black cast - an adaptation of Bizet's legendary funny girl, Fanny Brice. Back south, just in from the curve in the road, we find the grave of actress Judy production of Born Yesterday led her to in the film adaptation in 1950. Her but is considered one of the all-time &quot;You've come a long way from the chorus alright.&quot; &quot;I wasn't only in the chorus, I spoke lines.&quot; &quot;Really?&quot; &quot;Of course.&quot; &quot;How many?&quot; &quot;How many what?&quot; &quot;Lines did you speak?&quot; &quot;Five.&quot; &quot;I never knew that.&quot; &quot;Ask anybody.&quot; &quot;I believe you.&quot; &quot;I could have been a star probably if I'd stuck to it.&quot; Other memorable and comedic playing Gladys Glover, who yearns for so she rents a billboard and puts her dumb blonde Judy was actually incredibly of smarts to convince people her She returned to Broadway in 1956 to star The role earned her a Tony, and would also her last. Judy died of breast cancer in Let's head up the hill a few sections to In from the road a short ways is the grave of Tony Randall. He was for his role as Felix Unger in the TV Jack Klugman. The role earned him an Emmy. &quot;Can to divorced men share an apartment without driving each other crazy?&quot; [music] A few years later he had his own show, starred in Love, Sydney. On film he can be in Pillow Talk, and as the title He was also an accomplished stage Broadway in, Inherit the Wind. He died of Continuing east another section, next to the road, we He was an actor popular in the 30s and 40s. Four Daughters, and Body and Soul. Garfield was He rejected communism and refused to name his reputation and he was blacklisted. premature death of a heart attack at the of the HUAC investigation and blacklisting. His funeral had the largest attendance in New York If we follow this road north to the end, of Lee Strasberg. He's perhaps best Actors Studio in New York City, the He also formed Actors Studio West in Los life until his death in 1982, developing Many acting legends honed their skills Bancroft, Montgomery Clift, James Dean, and more. As an actor, his role as Hyman Roth in The Godfather The role earned him an Academy Award nomination. &quot;This is the business we've I didn't ask... who gave the order, because it had He died of a heart attack at the age of Our next stop is actually in the adjacent cemetery south of here. Temple Israel, also a Jewish cemetery, Let's follow the main road into the left and Here is the grave of Adolph Zukor. He was a film producer often founded Famous Players Film Company, to appeal to the middle class. were distributed through W W nationwide distributor. Zukor &amp; Lasky eventually merged and acquired Paramount Pictures, forming the production company Paramount Pictures today. The origins of the Hollywood mystery, but it's believed that ranges in Utah where W W Hodkinson grew system, added 24 stars to the original and actresses he had signed to his Shanghai Express and The Last Command. Zukor lived to be 103. Our time in Hastings-on-Hudson is at an Let's make our way north to Hartsdale, Ferncliff was founded in 1902 as a non-sectarian style of grounds, similar to the Lorest three mausoleums, the oldest is the Ferncliff Mausoleum, constructed in 1927. Next came the Shrine of Memories in 1956. The Rosewood Mausoleum, built in 1999, is mausoleum, one of the finest community Ferncliff has the only crematory in cremated here but their ashes taken Christopher Reeve, Nikola Tesla, Oscar John Lennon. We'll begin our tour of Ferncliff left section. Near the southwest corner of resting place of Bela Bartok. He was a and early scholar of ethnomusicology - the social aspects of those who create it. His elements of the folk music of his received, deemed too barbaric and unusual him to the US, and in his final years he Symphony, producing his Concerto for only piece for which he received acclaim his death that many of his earlier works dying from leukemia he worked he could. death, and remained for 43 years until of Hungary, where he was given a state Northwest of here is the Ferncliff Let's head into the main entrance, take a left, then right into the Here is songwriter Joe Young. He wrote lyrics for songs in the the 1931 Broadway show, The Laugh Parade, Other hits include, &quot;Lullaby of the Leaves,&quot; &quot;I'm Going to Sit Right Down and Write Myself a Letter.' He was inducted into the We now continue to the Western In the Nisonger family room we find the niche and urn of actress Judy name, her biggest being as Peggy Van in Jailhouse Rock in 1957. &quot;Well you finally got your sensation, I hope you're satisfied.&quot; &quot;Get off my back, kid, I ain't &quot;You insulted my father, my mother, and me and it's just unforgivable.&quot; &quot;Well what do you expect? I come out, have a little beer, first thing I know some old broad's with some stupid question.&quot; &quot;They were just trying to &quot;They can shove their conversation. I'm not even sure they were talkin' English.&quot; Before that, though, she was a chorus girl and The Howdy Doody Show. Days after driving back to New York from Hollywood While driving through Wyoming they struck by oncoming traffic. Judy died Her husband died the next day. was unable to attend the film's premiere. Back and to the right is alcove E. Here is the crypt of the legendary Joan Crawford. She was launched to stardom near the end of the silent era, in 1928's Our Dancing eyes and femininity she became a symbol Hollywood's new flapper. By the 30s she'd become one films like Grand Hotel and The Women. Her landed the role of a lifetime: in the &quot;You knew when you gave that uniform to Lottie that it was mine, didn't you?&quot; &quot;Your uniform?&quot; &quot;Yes, I'm waiting tables in a downtown restaurant.&quot; &quot;My mother... a waitress.&quot; &quot;I took the only job eat and have a place to sleep and some The role earned her an Oscar. The night of the awards too ill to attend. When she won she accepted the Oscar in bed. Years later Bette Davis in Whatever Happened to both women delivering riveting and &quot;Jane I'm just trying to explain you You wouldn't be able to do these awful things to me if I were still in Joan was married to Alfred Steele, named to board of directors of Pepsi. She died in 1977 at the age of, well 70-something. Her actual birth year seems a star never reveals her age. In 2017 FX produced a series about the Joan Crawford/Bette Davis feud, starring In the next corridor down we find He's best remembered today as the creator and host of the variety 23 years from 1948 to 1971, making it the Many great acts and rising stars show, and not just music acts but comedy the star maker in the 50s and 60s, household names after appearing on his Presley and the 1964 appearances of The in television history, watched shows ever. &quot;The city never has these youngsters from Liverpool who call you're gonna twice be entertained by half our show. Ladies and gentlemen, The Beatles! [music] Alan King once said of him: &quot;Ed Sullivan joke, but he does it better than anyone Sullivan who was a master at wrangling at the age of 73. His theater in New York, where the Late Show with Stephen Colbert Let's head back to the main entrance In alcove C we find the niche of Jerome Kern. He was a songwriter of hits include &quot;Old Man River,&quot; &quot;The Way You [music] He worked with many of Oscar Hammerstein to Ira Gershwin. On Show Boat in 1927, a new kind of musical Kern also wrote music for nominated for eight Oscars, winning for &quot;The Way You Look Tonight.&quot; A fictionalized Till the Clouds Roll By, Let's head up to the second level. If we go right we make our way to alcove Here is the niche of Moss Hart. He was a playwright and theatre director. Broadway veteran George S Kaufman, the a Lifetime, The Man Who Came to Dinner, only won him and his partner the into an Academy award-winning film. He like, As Thousands Cheer. He also directed original production of My Fair Lady, film include Gentlemen's Agreement, and A He died of a heart attack at the age of 57, and was posthumously inducted Also here is Hart's wife, Kitty television personality, perhaps best To Tell the Truth in the 50s through the the Marx Brothers in A Night at the She lived to be 96 years old. Let's go back to the stairwell and head This is the original resting place of like The Wizard of Oz and A Star is Born. body was returned to New York where her She was then entombed here, where her alive - just over 47 years. As California, they wanted their mother they had Judy's remains exhumed and and a pavilion that would bear her name. plots which will allow the whole family For a full profile of Judy and her new resting check out our tour of Hollywood Forever That's all we'll find here in the Ferncliff mausoleum today, let's head southeast of here. Here we find the final If you grew up on Sesame Street like I Northern Calaway as David on the beloved from 1971 to 1989 in close to 100 the series, but his career was hindered manifest in the 80s. He died in 1990 following a violent altercation with a death was listed as exhaustive psychosis. Straight east is the first Hickory Here is songwriter and composer, Harold Arlen. Earlier we visited the We now visit the man who wrote the music Arlen wrote the songs for the 1939 film &quot;We're Off to See the Wizard,&quot; and &quot;Over the Rainbow,&quot; ever written for film, winning him the [music] He wrote many songs that would become &quot;Stormy Weather,&quot; &quot;Blues in the Night,&quot; and Billy Rose. [music] Arlen is buried here with his chorus girl, seen mainly in uncredited and Top Hat. North of here is Paul Robeson, singer, actor, athlete, social He was the son of an escaped slave, only black student on campus at the time, eventually play professional football. At He landed a job at a law firm, but opportunity to represent clients. So he passion: performing. His glorious bass legendary on stage radio and screen. The Emperor Jones, and was the first black He's perhaps best remembered today for his productions of Show Boat. His rendition of [music] As his international fame rose he used black Americans, decades before the civil lyrics of &quot;Ol' Man River&quot; from &quot;I'm tired more inspiring, &quot;I must keep fighting that, as alluded to here on his epitaph. equal rights would negatively affect his blacklisted and his passport being a communist. And smear campaigns in pulled from shelves and appearances perform across the globe whenever he causes of peace and equality as he did Across the street to the north is Hillcrest 1 Section. Here we find the century's renowned jazz composers and unique style on the piano, and unorthodox have since become standards, including [music] Monk died of a stroke at the age of 64. Southwest across the cul-de-sac is resting place of Jason Mizell, better the influential hip-hop group, would help bring hip hop into the King of Rock. [music] They're also known for cover of Walk This Way. In 1989 Mizell for signing 50 Cent. On October 30th 2002, Mizell was shot and killed in a Queens His murder remains unsolved. Before hitting the two remaining mausoleums, let's head east to Pinewood B of Malcolm X, considered one of the most He was an activist, Muslim minister, and Malcolm Little, but with later replace his tribal name. On February 21st 1965 Malcolm X was gunned down by three members of the Nation of He was 39. Malcolm X has been portrayed in Denzel Washington in the Spike Lee film, many facets, many voices, Malcolm X's self-esteem for black Americans. &quot;I don't in any way encourage black people to go out and initiate acts of aggression believe that the black man in the United well within his right to do whatever is protect his life and property, especially government itself has proven that it is the lives and property of those human Just across the street is the Shrine of Taking the first corridor on the right, half way down, way up at the The distinguished English actor Holmes, alongside Nigel Bruce, in a series Conan Doyle's brilliant consulting Holmes in the Hound of the Baskervilles additional films as well as on the radio. &quot;There's still one or two little points, Holmes, that I can't for the life of me demented convict.&quot; &quot;One or two little points?&quot; &quot;Surely you can't mean that he was in London three weeks ago, sent that &quot;Of course not. &quot;Then who the devil did?&quot; &quot;The same person that contact last night, and will try &quot;Tonight?&quot; &quot;Unless my imagination has run away with Outside of 221b Baker Street, Copperfield, and Sir Guy of Gisbourne in He was nominated for two Oscars in his career. We'll end our tour at the magnificent Rosewood Mausoleum. Let's make our way in Turning right in the first the talented and stylish, zoot big band eras. Cab Calloway, known for his led one of the most popular big bands of attraction at Harlem's Cotton Club. His [music] So popular was this piece it was in the 30s. [music] He appeared in a number of 1947's Hi De Ho, and performed Minnie the Moocher in The Blues Brothers. In the 1950s he joined the touring production of Porgy and Bess. Ever the showman Cab He died of a stroke at the age Fans of The Nightmare Before Christmas will be curious to know that inspired by Cab Calloway. For our last second corridor on the right from the Here is R&amp;B singer and actress, exalted, the best,&quot; and she strived to live Aaliyah began singing and performing as even sang along with her aunt, Gladys record deal at the age of 12 and worked Her debut album, Age Ain't Nothing But a The album was a success, and her first top ten hit. Her second album, collaboration with Timbaland and Missy [music] In 2000 Aaliyah began to cross over into film, not only also performing the song, &quot;Try Again,&quot; for other soundtracks as well, including &quot;Are For her second film role she played the an ancient vampire. &quot;He reminds me of someone.&quot; &quot;All he's going to We're going to dismember him, bleed him &quot;Really? Is that what you're going to do?&quot; Around this time she was also working on album. Her self-titled album was also single &quot;More than a Woman&quot; hitting the But she wouldn't live to see the album's team were in the Bahamas shooting the After filming was completed they boarded plane was overloaded and crashed shortly After her funeral 22 white doves were and her casket was carried away in a been short, but she lived up to the do so all these years later. And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite memories of the stars we visited today? Share them in the comments below, and be sure to like, share, and Thanks for watching! We knew coming out to New York in mid-October that we were well ahead of peak fall foliage season. But we'd hoped to find a little color, for a small taste of the autumn in New York experience. Despite the warm weather, this one little tree in Ferncliff put its whole heart and soul into giving us that experience, and it was beautiful. Life lesson from Hollywood Graveyard: Be like this little tree... don't be afraid to let your own colors shine, no matter what anyone else around you does or thinks.