This is a 1976 BMW 2002. Really fun to drive car This particular customer go what we call the the 550 horsepower Tesla This is a typical car We're a speed shop. We We love to make a car fun to drive super fun In San Diego, California custom electric cars. EV West is part of a converting gas vehicles alone. All over the trading in their engines for the power electric. This started out as a He's melded both Tesla aftermarket components conversion. Interest in electric time high, with sales of compared to the year We will probably hit in the U.S. Having a powertrain in 10, 12 substantial. Hybrids did And regulatory mandates accelerate adoption. Places like California countries are saying no sales of new vehicles such a date, 2035, some earlier. But there are a lot of road today and there There are about 1.2 planet now. And for the on U.S. Roads is now 12 EV conversions could be a internal combustion the roads. Both the community are growing new demand. All these component come out and have these convert virtually any road to EV. Being involved in is like being involved We want this transition be fun and exciting for car culture and The history of modifying way back to the 1940s. This industry really World War II, where a came back but had had those sorts of things. rod parts to make cars Today we've got a hot rodding EVs. Much of that community is and foremost. That's why conversions were done. One of the earliest EV electric drag racer. White Zombie. It was a 1971, tiny little thing. And he put enough power delivery that he at drag strips. No one In the early days, vehicle components Once Tesla came onto the mostly being done with motors from its cars. When the EV conversion really taking a wrecked components out of it and Camaro or your Porsche of those sorts of it with EV products. Today, the conversion with everything from DIY shops. It's much easier nowadays than it was just ten I'm the son of a hot Hollywood and have just cars. EV West was the love for car culture and freshly minted computer to do some more exciting Michael Bream founded EV experimental shop to capabilities of electric All great companies have and ours was basically car. We rented the space on our first electric shop owned project. We had a little bit more market, but very quickly much bigger than our Today, Bream and his team and specialty cars to shops that have popped demand. His has gotten 4 to 5 year wait to get We're in a real heavy digit percentage growth over year. Now we're we've helped bring into authorized installation The shop handles every generally using crashed EVs. These motors here have cars. From here they're we're going to run them qualify them to be Here you can see several packs coming out of process those batteries and remove the internals individual battery because of the size of we're not going to put your classic car. We're of it, maybe half or one So it does require us to rearrange the battery right voltage, and then component. EV West is now supporting community as well, its own components. We always like to add product. So in the early to put fuzes on their systems. So this we built adds the fuzed aftermarket BMS. So it's safer to operate than A quickly growing segment these projects on complexity of electric intimidating, but that old Frances Farnham, who a 1976 Porsche 914. Okay. Welcome to the studio. This is where car these past couple of Everything is out of the steering wheel and we the engine bay. We redid And what I've been doing trying to get this nut to take off this it. Frances got the car three documenting the process Tinkergineering. I've always wanted an has a BMW i3 and I so cool. I had YouTube channel and then idea, Oh my gosh, we We should make it Because the name is together. And so we're fits so well. And it fit statement to inspire And so my dad was like, She just finished priming getting ready to rebuild A 914 internet community helping her and her process. As we were taking it on the internet and it converted a yellow 914 That's how I met my one of my number one Without him, I wouldn't of this at all. To learn how to work with took a course with the ins and outs of I just went during my honestly really, really And they have all the taught me how to attach together and make sure properly. I got to learn I had previously not plan was like, Oh, I'm It can't be that hard. class because I would within 15 seconds. Leveraging her YouTube able to use sponsorships the costs for the have the car ready by for her learner's Hopefully before my able to have this going to put everything everything works. And partnership with 914 So I'll make videos of they'll send me the able to put those parts Then it's just the which shouldn't take too fully running car. The aftermarket ecosystem focused components to Frances who want to car. Now what's happening is manufacturers showing up with battery packs, with harnesses to convert a internal combustion market. Both Ford and GM offer for EV conversions, and companies entering the Both Ford and General crate motors being all these other that are doing those and we're really SEMA, the Specialty Association, is a trade represents automotive resellers. We help manufacturers them to market. SEMA companies, but the about a $51 billion a It holds an annual Las Vegas that attracts aftermarket community. seen the number of EV exponentially. We started two years ago section at the show. It This last year it was I'm sure in the next 100,000 square feet. To support the SEMA introduced a bill state of California to incentives for people If you buy a brand new EV available. But currently for somebody that wants So SEMA is sponsoring conversions a rebate of that's just a start. I have heard a number of used car market, two and the U.S. As the new car Why can't we convert And the answer is you electric cars. Due to the size and packs. A car originally will never be as good as ground up to be You have to break the pieces of a few hundred One in the trunk, maybe went, maybe one under engine compartment. And because of the custom each build, it is likely prohibitive to go The engineering is that I just don't ever affordably. A typical conversion for would be about 20 to components. And then if shot professionally looking at about another So on average, about your classic car is a conversion. But for certain specialty sweepers, bucket trucks, others, conversions larger scale. Some of those vehicles lifespans. We're talking through 2 or 3 diesel Is there a possibility they're incentivized, is them somewhere in the to electric as well? And some companies are the fact that it consumer and public And it could actually end fleets to operate, complexity surrounding regulations. Fleet buyers pencil it They build a saying, What does it How much is the fuel? Electricity always wins And what's the annual And so if you have a source and you only need the vehicle, you can a higher annual cost. But the biggest business the conversion space and knowledge on how to work The vocational side of important. They're attract younger people a career. SEMA spends a lot of time has recently begun electric vehicles. We have an education team lot of subjects. The is going to be EV. As an early pioneer in had people visit from observe and learn from Poland, Japan, Chile, I mean, I could go on We've literally had over and have gone back started, based on our EV conversion shops. It has reached so much that it partnered with a Learning Center, to train people. The Electric Vehicle school that covers all vehicles. We have have courses for adults, we reach out to schools We've so far have sold we've put on there. We with the demand. And other similar up elsewhere. I also just heard about York that combines the of DIY EV, with training mechanics. And all of jobs because the going to be really steep mechanics needed. I never thought people about just a girl Seeing all these like, faces light up and then want to keep helping you what you did here, here, whoa. It's just it's I hope what I'm doing that it's not too can't do this because You need to have this I'm just doing this in When you're involved in that the success is How long the transition really the only thing And are we going to make sustainable fuels fun along the way, or is it chore? Well, we want it hobby.