- What you're about to see After this, it's never Let me explain. If you learn how to work like, control shift enter like this one, or this one. You're going to be titled the formula expert in your company. Now let's be honest. Not many people like to spend time to write this from scratch, or even bother to look for a file that included this formula. It's time consuming. Here's the problem. They need it for their work. That's why these two videos are popular videos on my channel, even though they include After this event, it's everything changed. Dynamic arrays were introduced. Now here's the thing. This isn't just a bunch of new formulas that were added to Excel. This is a change in It makes everything easier, also the way existing formulas work. Now I want to show you something. I'm going to take these two videos. Their total time is over 30 minutes, and I'm going to bring up the timer. I'm going to solve for these just to give you some context. Here, I have a list for division. You can see the names they're scattered. In front of it, I have the app that belongs to division. Now what I did was to first create a unique drop down for division. This has a list of three names. In front of it is a So these are the apps that What you see down here is to get these to work. This gives us a unique list, this gives us the app for the divisions. But check out this formula, it's crazy! It even goes to the next line. And what's also crazy that I have in here, let's just take a quick look at that under Data Validation, check this out. Now I created this to stops at the end of the last app. So it doesn't give me No wonder this took me so long to do. Just a note here that at dynamic arrays aren't available They will be available in the future. When? It's not defined yet. Now let's go and do this Bring up the timer, start now. I'm still going to create and I'm going to use one of it's called the Unique Function. It requires an array argument. Notice the next two I'm not even going to bother with them. I'm going to close the Now watch this. The formula spills into the next cells. I didn't need to do control Now what's even more exciting is to create the drop down list. Let's go back to Data but for source, I'm not because my array might end up expanding. I want to reference the and there is a new syntax for that. Right after the cell reference, you put the hashtag sign. This means you're So watch this. It has them all in there. Now, you're probably asking, &quot;What happens if I add Will it update?&quot; I formatted this as an Excel table, so yes, it will update. If you don't have an Excel table, you just might want to take extra cells into your unique formula, and it's going to take them into account once they get filled. Let's just add something here. The new division shows up here and it shows up right here. Let's do the more difficult part. That was the Dependent Dropdown List. I'm going to use another new the Filter Function. It's actually filtering in the formula. No need to manually refresh What do I want filtered? I want this one filtered. What's the parameter it should filter on? We should filter if the close the bracket, and press enter. And that's that. Let's create our second drop down, go back to Data Validation, list. What was the reference for the spill? Hashtag. We have our dynamic dropdown. Let's switch this to new. Check this out. Our list is restricted to the Stop the timer. Wait a minute! What about getting this sorted? In traditional Excel, this Not anymore. All I have to do is use the This is my array. I can define the sort index, sort order, by which column I want to sort, all of those are optional. I'm going to go with the default. Sorts it perfectly well. I'm going to do the same That sorted, too. Check this out. I have game, new, I get the new fields in Let's compare these two formulas. (funky music) Isn't that crazy? A lot of you left nice comments and here are some that Not easy to digest. It's really hard. I find it too complicated. Yes, it is complicated. Here's another one. Very useful, I would have thought like this already since it's Isn't that great that we're finally going to get it built in? Everyone who uses Excel for data analysis is going to have it easier, because it's not just these formulas. It's thousands of formula combinations that are going to make A big thanks to the Microsoft Excel team for bringing this to us. If you're excited about this, and you must be if you're comment below, let me know what you think. (upbeat music)