Despite this channel running for over 5 dedicated to Hollow Knight lore, there are in the ruins of Hallownest. This video will of Hollow Knight lore we have yet to fully on a few topics I've already covered in few mysteries that I haven't really touched on do have pretty reasonable explanations, that And before we get started proper, I did want to full of interesting lore write ups written by So if you want to check out theories from the try checking this page out. I put a link to the entire script of the Bee movie as The first big question I think we all asked at one There are two instances where the game tempts are stopped by powerful forces of nature. we also get very small windows into lands outside of their journey through the wasteland as they the Land of Storms, the location from which the Gods of Thunder and the Gods of Rain. We also prequel comic and in the opening cutscene of portray the Lands Beyond as a desolate wasteland creatures. Even the tablet in the Howling Cliffs But are the Lands Beyond truly such a are several travelers who arrive in Hallownest there's also Pharloom, a completely different So, even if the Lands Beyond are mostly wasteland, although maybe not to the scale of Hallownest in Why does the lore tablet at the entrance to I think this is because the Pale King expected the case, then to travelers arriving in the only civilization. And there might actually be many kingdoms left in the world of Hollow Knight. existed in the world as a Wyrm, burrowing and only came to Hallownest to die. From there, founded Hallownest and created a beacon to draw Dream Nail dialogue from Mister Mushroom, this bugs into their thrall". Wyrms might be one of this world. But there's one line from Bardoon that Wyrm's Cast-off Shell, Bardoon says "With its like that the Wyrms of this world have all died out. The creatures mainly responsible for creating so most of the kingdoms have collapsed into sand. were more prevalent and there were tons of nearby while this might explain the current state of all the Wyrms die out in the first place? Did by their actions, leading their population to in Hallownest? Is there something unique about Pale King and other civilizations to try to claim that I'm not sure we'll ever get answers to. And The Blackwyrm is mentioned in the Hunter's he mentions that he participated in the "Battle Blackwyrm. This pitiful amount of information has might be worth discussing a few of them here. that the Blackwyrm is the corpse that dedicated Colosseum of Fools video, I but since anything related to the Blackwyrm First of all, this ancient bug corpse is very in Hallownest. It appears to have chains immobilize it, perhaps because this creature Pale King's reign. This could signify a battle. King in that it was born from the carcass of might have even been part of his punishment and he's been relegated to stay inside his Third, the worship of the Lord Fool might be part of the "wyrms pull bugs into discussed earlier. This might also explain seemingly still retain their ability The hurdles this theory has is the fact that this has limbs, it isn't molting, the interiors look Cast-off Shell as a Wyrm, but not the Colosseum you have to argue that the Pale Wyrm which I think does have merit, but I think The other argument I've been seeing pop up is stems from the lack of consistency between its in the game. Any time the word "wyrm" is used Most instances of the word just say with a few instances where it's just in lower word "worm" with an "O" seemingly to mock the Pale where we get an adjective in front of the word, both capitalized. As opposed to just one word. to be very compelling either. what is it? Generally the theory follows perhaps a place with a structure that looks like named after a battle tactic. Like the Battle discrepancy between "Pale Wyrm" and "Blackwyrm", The only other idea I can think of is that own kingdom that possibly fought against the like if any higher being could form a militia So yeah, that's my take on Void is a very complex subject in Hollow Knight, written by Sumwan and ToxicBrain detailing all the lore. But in this section I'm going to discuss and never mentioned on this channel before. which they are created, we have no clue how Void or an emptiness, which aren't really things that something else. However, there is one comparison When dying and losing its shade in Hollow Knight, to Confessor Jiji in Dirtmouth. Jiji describes dark stain on the world. And after the Knight Knight as "coming to terms" with its own regrets. speaks about. Jiji notes that the entire kingdom regret. It's possible that Jiji is aware of the that she says the entire kingdom is stained might bugs that have died since Hallownest collapsed. of regret is reiterated by the Hunter. In the Each of us leaves an imprint of something know how much longer this kingdom can This regret motif appears one more just outside of the Abyss. The tablet describes and regret" of the Hollow Knight's creation. Void and regrets. But the problem with this theory actually create Void. There are occasional such as the Grey Mourner's dead lover, the Lord really isn't any slam dunk connections here. For blood. For Lord Fool, it could be weathering, have eyes. And as for Mask Maker and Karina, of these two characters have any regrets. example of a non-Void creature leaving a The entirety of the White Palace hidden in pale light, with the only two exceptions being the room. From the dialogue of his Royal Retainers as racked with shame and deeply troubled. Ultimately, the deep regrets he held inside stained the throne While I think this makes a lot of sense a stretch to say Void originates entirely from the rest of the game doesn't reflect this idea. concept as a way to keep the concept of Void a Jiji very early on in the game. But it's the The only other idea I can think of is that Void perhaps from the dead bodies of creatures military anywhere in Hallownest Mask Maker is such a fun little character. of Hollow Knight lore, and yet they have intimate civilizations from long before the Pale King. Some regards to the Knight. They talk about the and its inner shade, almost as if the Knight But this doesn't really answer the question first place. Who are the "Kingdom's faceless" seemingly equate having a face with the ability consider masks a "gift to a world deserving"? is that we see very few characters in and sometimes those masks seem to serve Quirrel, the Fools in the Colosseum, the Grimm But outside of that, we've got very define who the kingdom's faceless are I have my own idea about what all this means. has its fair share of issues, but I'm not really I mentioned before that the Mask Maker draws and inner shade. I think there is a parallel I think some bugs are naturally capable of higher thought. These would be the these bugs can still conceal their true nature these bugs identity and allow them to exist as this is the same as the Pale King's beacon. need to hide their true forms, as explained in one In a time before the Pale King's beacon, masks which could explain why we see ancient masks Maker was making masks long before the Pale masks because that's all they know how to they are a little insane, driven to feverishly So, to simplify things, the Pale King's beacon However, bugs could also wear masks that grant them an identity. Both are methods that How likely is this theory correct... ehh, I'm not is making masks for Hallownest when Hallownest that I'm misinterpreting the King's Pass tablet and Mask Maker that wasn't intended. And again, like all this applies. Like I said, this but I'm not going to act like it's an airtight I really do think we just lack information to Charms are ubiquitous in Hallownest, popping can be created from a variety of different like the Soul Catcher and Mark of Pride, born Elegy and the Spell Twister, or even created But charms can also form in another more morbid from the last wish of dying bugs. Charms that Fury of the Fallen and the Glowing Womb charm. is how they work. They are created through various into these vague, weird, generic notches. related to how charms are equipped comes from the and unequipping charms can be tricky, so you have licensed Hollow Knight vinyl records released by these interfaces on their backside that allow them slots are discrete, with each charm connecting requires 5 charm notches to actually equip. It thrown up their hands on this one. In an interview charms, quote "had this vague sense of socketing way". He makes it sound like this is some sort played Cyberpunk 2077. Although I have watched Everyone in the Hollow Knight community creatures that deserve to be mashed up the community isn't quite as sure on is most behind the capture. "Why are all these High up in the Watcher's Spire, just below where we can find a couple of unassuming lore we can see that these tablets actually ones found scattered throughout Hallownest. The We can find a stockpile of these jars east Tower of Love. The original resident of in the Queen's Garden, clutching the key to this Husk Dandy says "Too long... spent together... we can also see Void seeping out of their corpse. Knight unlocks the door to the Tower of Love. known as the Collector, who is likely the From its Dream Nail dialogue, we can tell that providing a safe space for its captives, so much of Protection. Finally, hidden in a secret room of drawn in the style of the Vitruvian Man. the matter, let's dive into heavy speculation. the Queen's Gardens with preserving the various in an effort to preserve these animals from the the Bible. Or maybe Lurien just wanted there to city, sort of like a zoo, like the one depicted Somehow the Collector came into the possession of be created from a mould found in the White Palace King's Kingsmould guards. This implies that the leading to speculation that the Collector somehow by the Husk Dandy. While it's not impossible, We know that Kingsmoulds likely roamed that the Nailsmith can be seen making a little see Kingsmoulds walking around the streets of the able to secure a Kingsmould of their own, either or just through connections they But I think there was one problem with this whole a total freak. I think this Husk Dandy was the due to some sort of strange obsession with the fascination also extended to other creatures as see what their Kingsmould servant looked like decided to completely strip it down so they could Regardless of how the Husk Dandy ended up living the two to "become as one", with Void seeping fascination and obsession with preserving bugs, These strange thoughts warped within the least insane Tumblr user you've ever seen. In the Collector inside the Tower of Love, fleeing to Connecting all this back to grubs, it's hard warranted at all. Is there really anything greater bit to go on here. Note that the symbol placed on closely with this gem on the Grubberfly's Elegy next stage of life looks like for a grub, and the "holy" strength. So perhaps the original bug was contained within grubs. mystery is pretty important to the core be pretty confusing for new players. How escape the Abyss? Team Cherry was even asked We're not sure - we know that some of his but most of them did not. Whether those or whether some of them were just lucky... But is William actually telling the truth here? Hollow Knight lore kind of completely breaks if answer the question, I will share one theory that there's a portion of Deepnest that does seem and not far from there is Nosk's lair. And this Abyss where we see the most Vessel bodies. been a path out of the Abyss through Deepnest. why the Knight left Hallownest in the first and it may be as simple as Vessels just kinda know why the Knight left Hallownest, we do know something. It's not confirmed what this was, Knight's shell cracked in the cutscene shown at Knight is just one of multiple Vessels wandering hunting Vessels down and destroying them to So I wouldn't be surprised to learn if other Lifeblood is a topic I have barely talked about barely has any influence over the overall little bit of time to talk about Lifeblood because the Knight can find eight separate Lifeblood small creatures called Lifeseeds, which are filled butterfly shaped flowers. And there are also find. The Lifeblood Core and the Lifeblood Heart while Joni's Blessing actually transfigures Lifeblood is described as making the user Salubra tells us that drinking Lifeblood the character in possession of Joni's We don't know for sure why Lifeblood is considered Joni's Repose where we find Joni's corpse, we and vines covering the cavern, all seeming to it seems like Joni's "vital fluids" had and upon her death, this Lifeblood spouted and vines can then travel out and create more It seems Lifeblood's powerful healing consume it. According to the Wanderer's Journal, which in real life lore, have evolved to be seed. And upon that host's death, this Lifeblood there might already be a vast network of Hallownest. And I should also note that Joni Deep under Hallownest, hidden away In the Abyss, enough Lifeblood masks. Behind this door is the real world and the dream realm, where blue eyes lurking in the background. This creature Godhome. This being is referred to as the clearly has some kind of connection to Lifeblood. Creature facilitates the appearance of Lifeblood this is the true source of all Lifeblood. It to Joni in that it just ingested Lifeblood to the replaced and it can now spread Lifeblood how little info we are given on Lifeblood, Out of all the Pale King's Five Great Knights, still know more about her than we do Dryya, but Dryya. Getting back to Isma, we know that she was a very close relationship. You can even hear But we only catch small glimpses of what and her corpse in the Royal Waterways seems to her. We know that this location, known as Isma's and if we look at the Dung Defender's he seems to think that Isma is still alive. at her corpse, it seems as though Isma is almost like her body is a seed that has indicate that Isma didn't die, but instead has And it's likely that the Dung Defender is her grove specifically mentions that of all the plant life around her, then Dung Strangely, Dung Defender mentions that Isma which is a little odd considering the blessing like Isma created it specifically for the Knight. it. It seems like the tear was just a fruit her immense sadness in losing her time with Dung It's possible, but maybe Dung Defender is maybe deep down, Dung Defender knows that she the line of Hallownest's Great Knights is going Isma could still be alive, even if it's not Here's an interesting question that doesn't get little bit odd considering Hornet is a spider and time I checked. Hornet has had her name since her but in game, there really isn't any explanation Hornet and the Hive, and no one from Deepnest If we look outside the game, Ari Gibson did on r/gaming in August of 2017. During this "Was naming the bee queen &quot;Vespa&quot;, that have to do with Hive lore?" Vespa to Hornet was intentional. There was an was the 'Child of Three Queens,' one birthed, queen that Hornet took her name. Whether that though it was definitely the basis for the names. trained with Vespa when she was young, but even Or can he? In an interview with the magazine A the question of Hornet's name came up again. meaning behind Hornet's name, though Gibson whether that ever is revealed, I'm not sure.' that Hornet's name does have significance although mean that the backstory is accurate? Or did of the game? Unfortunately, none of this really as Team Cherry themselves have stated that Knight lore should not be considered canon. sometimes but we try not to give that is not in the game. Because a lot of people based on the info in the game. And if explicitly in the game, then you might start Ari: Yeah it colors all that stuff, you know. nice thing to do for a creator to Ari: Stomping around and denying people's ideas. in the game. And anything that we say Ari: Although obviously any additional Hollow Godmaster or Grimm Troupe or Hornet... Ari: Yeah. we'll sometimes use Reddit AMA answers as if confirming how the Hive was infected. But those Queens stuff. I occasionally see people treat this in mind that it isn't officially confirmed we have for it is that Hornet's name is Hornet. the Hive sealed itself off completely they likely never even met Hornet, despite Who the fuck is Dashmaster? There's literally and it's about 5 feet from a giant sewage an eccentric bug but not much else. my last video for saying this guy wasn't Undertale. I'll be completely honest with you. played Undertale. Although I have watched its guess they cut Sans from that for some reason. surrounding the nature of the Pale King and the aspect of the story, the White Lady is a bit of desire to spread her seed and propagate across the and trap herself in a cocoon-like chamber to We can actually see glimpses of what the events of the game. From the silhouette left we can see that she was once quite a bit smaller. art and early images, which might represent how her roots have grown out uncontrollably, I honestly don't really have much else to say... makes sense that a Wyrm could have slithered into momma come from? Let's talk about Pale Ore. Pale Ore is icy cold Cherry that it is connected to the Pale Beings, King and White Lady, or Redditors. But what compare how Pale Ore changes the Knight's Old Nail patterns running across it similar to those seen Hollow Knight's nail as shown in the Embrace used by the Pure Vessel. What's interesting create these solid nails that have the same So perhaps Pale Ore itself contains some form of Pale Beings. I should point out that the Pure stronger. More specifically, the addition of Pale ancient form. So, even if Pale Ore isn't strictly it certainly has some kind of magical the actual location of Pale Ore throughout the Of the Pale Ore that aren't rewarded by random or eggs or whatever they are and in the Radiance's as some kind of offering or ritual, but Perhaps these are the remnants of ancient This mystery isn't particularly big or in the game itself. Throughout Hallownest Oro and Mato. Despite clearly the best among become an artist, leaving Oro and Mato to carry However, at some point, Oro and Mato had a of the kingdom. Mato is awaiting something delivering on this anytime soon. We are also "What could this be?" I hear you quiver. the trio. We have one brief line from Sly where he upon learning that the Knight received he doesn't begrudge that the Knight won Sly's in helping the Knight along in its journey. To impressed with Oro's skill as a Nailmaster. Nail dialogue indicating that he wants to prove a training dummy outside his hut, perhaps This is reflected by the Dream Nail dialogue of think this shows that Oro views his brothers as the dummy as his brothers to remind him of this. is how their huts are furnished. Mato has he has likely fallen, whereas Oro's the city and fancy drapes. Oro is also the only and he even scoffs at the idea that Mato fights overly attached to the Knight, as according to This all leads to a strained Mato clearly takes pride in being trained in while Oro lacks confidence in his abilities. He himself. He likely charges money as a way to keep connections. We know that Oro hides his true giving him a flower. He acts all pissed off, but But what does Oro owe Mato exactly? I think the to duel Oro in a friendly competition, Mato wants him. Whatever it is, Mato wants companionship. in the Godmaster fight, stating "Brothers always This is the only thing Mato is portrayed who still wields a nail. I don't think anything lack of confidence in his own skills, or his Mato that companionship. However, deep he just fails to openly show it. Although it's nice to think that they were able to share Everyone in the Hollow Knight community generally character that deserves to be remembered alongside thing the community isn't so sure about is the only mentioned once, and never seen in-game. The with Sly while he's fighting off the infection we have to go...". William Pellen was asked about someone that still lingers in Sly's dreams. So, it seems Esmy was pushing Sly to travel into clue we have is the Shopkeeper's Key, located in Perhaps Sly and Esmy were exploring this area Sly the Shopkeeper's Key, he even guesses that Sly was in that region at some point. characters in Hollow Knight have mysterious dead that also died at some point. In fact, it's in Hallownest so that she could be reunited with of this character and probably one of the saddest Elderbug also has vague dialogue about a lost This would also be incredibly sad if One of the biggest mysteries left in Hallownest Deepnest. In the game files, the art in is protected by a seal of binding and connected with a mouth located at the bottom. Finally, we sketchbook. The design is basically the same, out of the mouth of the shrine. This appears Between the pipes and the mouth, I do believe perhaps even some kind of creature. Just above to be some type of crown, which could imply The King of Deepnest is mentioned only once in the Wastes. He is described as Deepnest's "dead sire" this to Deepnest's Queen, Herrah, who they we can assume that Deepnest's king was some But according to this tablet, the king is still be inside this shrine. Perhaps the king still alive in some sense, but the mushroom if the king was placed in this thingamabob, I alive, given the pipes and mouth. this is one that I am very confident Silksong. When asked explicitly about Deepnest's ...further elements of Deepnest's but we can't say anything specific for now. should be waiting just around the corner... right? civilization existed in the land of Hallownest. that can be found in-game. Large corpses in be former members of this ancient caste, although of this. But they aren't the only thing we and potentially Ancient Masks and Soul Vessels These objects seemed to be of no use to The majority of Hallownest's bugs likely so there was no use for objects such as also used stone tablets and parchment to store it's interesting to note that the Pale King did And these egg shaped tablets we see throughout of Arcane Eggs, as Lemm explains that eggs are Although these are pretty massive eggs for a "read me" txt file in one of these. the Ancient Civilization. Lemm mentions that Eggs contain some sort of will within them. the roads and structures in the Ancient And then there's the Quick Slash charm, which imperfect nails created by the Ancient Nailsmith. long to be wielded. So, it seems like inanimate possess living traits such as wills and desires. Civilization is the Void Idol. As Lemm explains: their worship to no lord, or power, or Lemm doesn't give us a good explanation but if we look in the Abyss, we might be able interacting with the Void. In this room east of Next to it is a strange relief in the wall, which This may be a stretch, but I think this would "give form" to the Void, creating the basically a more crude form of the molds we see the Void Tendrils might have existed before the they studied the Tendrils. Aside from that room, that pours out a never ending stream of Void, We can infer from the Mask Maker that this Ancient to lay claim to all of Hallownest. So perhaps to expand their lands. This obviously didn't work pal Radiance, which would explain why she calls structure we find in the Abyss shows a bunch with the Dream Nail dialogue. "...Our voices... desperate cry of the Ancient Civilization as their Although maybe this cry is actually true. to speculate. In the Godmaster endings to the creature, who doesn't have a formal name but is or the Void Entity. We don't but there is debate that it might be a more given how the Godseeker speaks to the Knight the Knight statue in the Hall of Gods. more directly tied to the Ancient Civilization. In we can see that it acts distinctly from the Vessels. While I think the Knight does become I think this creature existed before the Vessels somewhere in the Abyss, only called back now by And it seems like the game really wants us to what that Ancient Civilization did with Void descriptions from looking at the Void Entity worshiped a creature like this, what exactly It's established that one power Wyrms like the is mentioned once by Bardoon, and twice by we all know, despite this prescience, the Pale how prescient is the Pale King really?" The way I like to think about this problem specifically trying to create a kingdom that Radiance is described in a lot of dialogue This is what the dead mushroom points out come to destroy the Pale King's civilization The Pale King's only solution to this is to Palace workshop lore tablet. So yes, the Pale but his solution was to delay it inevitably. is a storytelling trope seen all throughout example is from the television series The Amazing Gumball finds paintings produced by Banana Barbara them depicting Gumball completely naked surrounded Gumball tries everything within his power to stop inadvertently causes himself to end up completely The same thing pretty much Mister Mushroom is a wandering in Hallownest. You can only understand him but even then his dialogue implies that Out of all his dialogues like this, the only where he seems to be talking to the main games: Hungry Knight and Tomb Cat. in my Mister Mushroom lore video, there really majority of Mister Mushroom's wacky dialogue. characters from future Team Cherry projects, they're never actually going to make. You can tell of ideas for games that they want to make and Game development is long, right? Especially games We've thought up ten years of games that we would But as to specific explanations for what any of does use the word determination at one point. absolutely love Undertale. It's an amazing game, fact, I'm so good at the game, I almost beat Sans. aspect of Undertale's main story, as it shows up when I say this can't be a coincidence. is connected to all of these other Team Cherry they have to give him a post credits The Masters are yet another group that but as of right now, very little is known about by Confessor Jiji and Steel Soul Jinn. When the her Masters would be impressed with how the Knight Once the Knight is marked with the King's Brand, the Knight, as her masters' minds are other, and the Void Heart, Jinn also comments that the From what little we know about Silksong, it who are looking to assassinate Hornet. though they are interested in Void creatures and Jinn were assigned to offer services, From the dialogue we get from Jiji and Jinn, are Void creatures. But instead of just crazy golems like the Kingsmoulds, these Masters are with their end goal in mind appearing to be not The Delicate Flower comes from a far off, a character who herself looks like some sort of in the Queen's Garden, it is described in the Lady recognizes it as distinct from herself and inside these fragile petals, and refuses to accept knowledge of its power would hold it so close. ponders that it might be a "splinter, cast-off or saying that she can't sense any godliness within flower during the Embrace the Void ending, we see Godseeker, seemingly leaving nothing but a small There isn't any solid theory on what happens here. banished to some part of the dream realm, similar maybe they were teleported back to where the So despite being described as producing a pale this flower, and the Godseeker can't detect any kind of pale property with the White Lady, Pale just because something is "Pale" doesn't mean it's or some other force? As of right now, I'm honestly really can just pop creatures completely out The Godmaster update added two additional endings ending which all were fairly conclusive, these two Knight and the rest of the siblings have strange Void Entity. The Radiance's infection has is now free from its prison inside the Black On top of that we have no idea how or even endings. We still don't know for sure how the on any sort of timeline. If Silksong takes place this event? If it takes place before, are they something completely different and just explain In a Reddit AMA, Ari Gibson did Hollow Knight's multiple base endings. into 'True Endings.' You choose the path Hollow Knight content to account for all of them. before the new endings were released, so it's on this. That said, I don't think they have. change their minds on. And if they really and pay off everything, I am very excited And finally, I think it's time we talk has loomed over the Hollow Knight community that has eluded some of the greatest minds and children have tried for years to solve this Who the fuck is Sprintmaster!?