- How's it going? (audience screaming) Alright. (Jim laughs) So we go on really cool trips as a family, every couple of years. Now, two years ago, we went to Africa, not to help. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) I mean, really? Can someone go to Africa to look at a lion at peace and I'm No I don't want help. So. (Jim laughs) So now, a friend of mine called up, now at the time my kids are And we're going on a Safari and his other family, is We're going to Tanzania. We're gonna go on a Safari, So, &quot;Oh, wow. Okay.&quot; I get the itinerary, but two weeks for it to go, I was staying in tents, Like. (Jim raspberries blowing) &quot;Go ahead. Well, this is where &quot;Oh great. Oh, okay.&quot; So, I'm freaked out. I'm freaked out. So, I do some research and I go on YouTube and I type in, &quot;People (audience laughing) Coz I, I wanna know, I got little kids. And first thing that comes up, bang, &quot;Man eaten on Safari.&quot; 50 million views. So I, eh, I, I'm looking to make sure my wife and kids are in bed. &quot;Alright, alright, lets I watch this video and it's a guy getting mauled by lions on a Safari. Now, alright. I'm not gonna lie to you. The first, like five (audience laughing) It's shocking. Like, &quot;Oh my gosh. Is it really known? Is that real? Is it edited?&quot; But by the sixth, like the you're like, this is great. This is funny. (audience laughing) He deserved it. He deserves it. (audience laughing) Now I will, I will tell you, here's the video real quick in a nutshell. It's a, now I feel bad. It's a, it's this poor I'm, I'm assuming he's British. (audience laughing) His teeth and his ears. (imitating funny sound) (audience laughing) &quot;Zebra, more of lions, lovely.&quot; (audience laughing) You know what I mean. Look like his waiting for a soccer ball. &quot;Is that a soccer ball? Lovely&quot; (mic tapping) &quot;You can't use your hands, you know.&quot; (mic tapping) &quot;Greatest sport in the world.&quot; Soccer sucks. Sucks. It's a British guy. (audience laughing) And he's videotaping, right? Now, I get the first move he makes. The first move, he's got his So he's looking, he's like, &quot;Ooh, I can't believe, this I could smell the carnivores in action.&quot; And, I get this mus of (Jim roars) You can get back in the &quot;Yeah, what's up lion?&quot; (Jim honk imitating) &quot;Yeah, what's up?&quot; But, now, he opens the door and he's, and he's standing behind the door and your watching, Now the lions are maybe 15 feet and they reading him (Jim roaring) Now, that would have been it for me, but this guy, right in (Jim roars) He goes, &quot;Oh, I must get a closer look.&quot; (audience laughing) And he rolls up right on the lions. And you literally see (Jim roaring) (audience laughing) &quot;You know, we have to eat you (audience laughing) &quot;Let's have some tea (mic tapping) (raspberries blowing) Now, and, and so help It's too late. He doesn't get eaten, but he gets mauled. And, the reason I tell you this because when you do watch the video don't watch the documentary That goes on for another three hours, some nonsense documentary which I watched. Because the family sued the because he got mauled. And that's why I give the That judge come, you know, I watched the whole thing to the end. The judge comes out of it. (mic slapping) &quot;Order, order in the court.&quot; (mic slapping) &quot;Court is now in session.&quot; (audience laughing) (mic slapping) (Jim heavily breathing) (mic slapping) &quot;Order!&quot; (audience laughing) &quot;First of all.&quot; (Jim laughs) (audience laughing) (audience cheering) &quot;Pardon me. First of all, to the family involved. (audience laughing) I cannot imagine the emotional distress you must go through on a daily basis knowing how you lost your loved one. However, we are not here to We are here to make decisions on facts and facts only. And I have reviewed. (mic slapping) Order I said! (audience laughing) This is despicable. Despicable. Now I have gone through all and I must say in my private chambers I just actually watched the video at hand. Dear God, I will say, the first five times I watched nothing. (audience cheering) I was appalled. I really was. But by sixth time, it Very funny. He deserved a case to switch a second.&quot; (mic slapping) (audience cheering) Thank you, much love.