Hey, how are you doing? Today we are going to start a little look There's a whole module on this coming a little taster we'd have a bit of a Course. Now, for this particular lesson 6/8 time which is really nice as a taster this pattern where we can go thumb, 3 fingers. We don't tend to use the people do but it's kind of rare and a start off with just using the thumb There's a whole bunch of songs that too difficult. So it's a lovely pattern I know you're going to love the modules. fingerstyle is realising that the fingers string to play. Not all the time but they've got an assigned string and the strings depending on what the chord is We're going to start off with a D chord. the 4th string which is the note D. Now with is playing thumb, 1st finger, 1rst finger, thumb. The count would 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Now first thing I want to adress is playing free. Now, with an anchor I to rest on the actual guitar body Thumb, 1, 2, 3...OK? You can see for the whole time. Now I find using an anchor really, very short and I find that it creates pretty much never use an anchor. I really love, that are great fingerstyle Emmanuel, probably the greatest guitar when he plays fingerstyle. So my anchor if you can. At least start with it. an anchor. I'm still trying to force get going with an anchor but he have with my hand which is that it I would recommend gritting through would come good. Because I do think run if you play with an anchor. But most free. So just my hand is resting, my or my forearm on the guitar. It does make it, particularly if I'm difficult. I something try and rest my But There's only certain songs and that for. So my recommendation down using the little finger actually Now the next question I always get is Now I use fake fingernails like stick on doing it when I was studying classical super important with the tone. I ended daughter just because I was sort of sharp and I said &quot;No, this is not worth it&quot;. without nails and actually I think for nails. I like the sound of this, it's a a bit tricky at the moment is because NITSUJ, I got calluses on this hand trying to pick the strings sometimes which is still kind if freaking me out to do the left-handed practice to be able love fingerstyle guitar and I'm finding So I would recommend that you either But a combination won't work very that one note would always be brighter sound wonky. So either want to cut all all long. If you do keep them all long to get the nail filer to make sure they because it only takes a small little the string and I'll have your nail off, So the first stage is being able to play going thumb, 1, 2, 3, 2, 1. I'm talking Thumb, 1, 2, 3, 2, 1. Now the first thing that you want to be is feeling the strings under your fingers where it feels like a nice contact with it's not doing this sort of thing. You contact with the strings. A really common time is grabbing at the strings and to see this... where there's a whole heap of movement knukles of the hand doing the There's a little bit of movement there but hand and arm to pick the strings. By lots of nicer contact with the strings. sort of thing for the feel. Putting your the thumb. And then just feeling...you kind of can but...Just try and feel it, there's a calluse on that finger So annoying. So just really trying to Oh that third finger is really winding That's a bit better. I just angled the... angle here. If I go...if I go straight grab as well. It is a little bit of an pointing a little bit towards the front staright down like this. There's As well, you want your 1rst finger picking So it doesn't want to be too like, well you'd be picking up. The further you come forward. You got to, again, for a little different. The shapes of our for it to be a little different. You for you and you get a nice sound. And key thing here. You want to be thinking the strings and how it's, how it feels together, where it feels nice under the relaxed, that's where the sound will just practice and experimenting. So by you know, literally just sitting there It's a fantastic exercice for fingerstyle. changing chords, not trying to do on the tone of the notes. Trying to even. Now there are times where you rhythm, you might go... Something like that but for practice 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. I mean it does make a difference as It feels very different. It feels a lot harsher. Feels really hard for me to do it right I always feel like this, like just at right place. If your right over the acoustic guitar you're going to end up should be projected out of the not too far back. You can experiment touch, super important how you're using an anchor. Trying to find playing too hard, not playing too sounding really sweet but not the anchor finger or not, it's with. We've got the tone, like where the touch will influence the tone a little bit with that, and the time. you've got that nice do, ba, ba, ta, fell that as a nice even rhythm considerably. So I mentioned earlier note and the thumb playing the so D and Dmin, you're going to That's a Dmin7 and D7sus4 and any be playing the 4th string. For a on the 5th string. Same with Amin, We have a G chord. Where the bass note the 1rst, 2nd and 3rd fingers are Same with E and Emin. The thickest So G type chords, bass note on the chords, both Amaj and A minjor, minjor? 5th string, C chord has the 5th string and have the bass note played on the the first step is just going to be chords. I don't recommend trying Just be happy sticking on the one to find is when you start to change So you go D, then you go to G, you have pretty difficult. As you progress at this put your fingers down in an order pattern. Like for a G chord you're So if you go from the D, when I go to little finger goes down, little finger It's not recommended but that might most of the fingerstyle stuff, once you pattern consistent while the chords is most difficult, most of the time actually just playing the changes. There fingerstyle song in 6/8. I think that me is &quot;Everybody Hurts&quot;, even if in it which you will be able to substitute So that might not be a bad song to going to be playing the bridge yet. is pretty slow, it's just using D Emin, an A. It is exactly this pattern If that's not to your taste &quot;House of that involves the mini F which is when you're playing fingerstyle out clearly and if you've got your notes it's gonna become very obvious. tempo as well so if you're using my you probably want to slow the tempo any sort of backing track. So just a good one as well. Now &quot;Halleluja&quot; the Wainwright, covered by loads of people. fingerstyle but again that's using an on what challenges you seek and doing this. I think it's a fantastic fingerstyle on the acoustic guitar, There are a couple of like, you players, one is called Martin Knopfler who both play electric guitar fingerstyle. not really sure whether they'll playing fingerstyle on electric does it. You know. Of course it you know. There are great examples electric guitar. The particular is more of an acousticky style thing examples of electric guitars being as good as it gets stuff. So if your just skip over the fingerstyle thing So my recommendation is literally first few practice session. Just work on how your fingers are feeling as How the tone is. How your timing is, feel ok with that maybe start incorporate, one chord change like &quot;Everybody with that for a little bit. If you're can start trying to play a whole song chord changes. But you're much exercice slowly and getting it each rather than just trying to just jump Rising Sun&quot; with all of those chord of it all the time and, you know, and I don't think it's as much fun. one step at a time and building a Really appreciate your support, on with the exercices. If your in the comments. I will be trying anyone out who is having a be on YouTube, you probably website, there will be a link in do that I'd appreciate if button. It makes a big all of this and I'll see you with You all take care of yourselves and