It definitely hurts. Hi, I'm Michelle, and I've been wearing glasses for 16 years and contacts for about nine. I was always hesitant about getting LASIK because it's expensive, and the idea of lasers cutting But recently, my contacts really uncomfortable, where I was mentally to take this next step. Ideally, doing this surgery would mean I could see perfectly clearly for the rest of my life. And that would be so amazing because I wouldn't have from wearing contacts all day, spend money on contacts (which does add up), and the But first, I needed to for laser eye surgery. So, I went to my eye doctor and he told me that there were four things that he looks for during the examination: a stabilized prescription, how much treatment is necessary, the curve and thickness of my cornea, and how moist the eye is. The good news is I am Instead of LASIK, the doctor recommends that I do something called PRK. Dr. Harry Koster: Some patients, have the surgery directly on their cornea. That's called PRK surgery. Michelle: Because my eyes the doctor recommended that because with LASIK, there's an increased chance for me to get chronic dry eyes. So I decided to go with PRK even though it might take while with LASIK it takes only a few days. The next pre-surgery step is dilation, which allows the technician to obtain a more precise Finally, surgery day! I just took some Valium, and we're waiting for that to kick in. Sherri, my surgical how it should feel like I drank but it's supposed to calm The first thing the technician Then Dr. Koster added a piece of tape to keep my eye open. After that, he applied some medication on the surface of my eye to relax it as well as some drops to moisturize it. Dr. Koster said this was like While he was doing this, or really see anything. Just colors of the red and green light. After eye prep, it was laser time! I had to focus on the I didn't see any movement of the laser or feel it cut my cornea, but I did smell a little bit of burning. I tried not to think while it was happening so And before I knew it, Dr. Koster added some to prevent it from healing and he put some medical contacts on my eye to protect the cornea while it heals, with a final touch of eye drops. Once he finished with the left eye, he repeated the same and that was it! All of this took about 15 minutes. It just happened so fast. So now I have to do my part in taking care of this and recovering. So, I just got home. I'm getting a little tired. My left eye is definitely Currently gonna take some But so far, like, not too much pain. So, I ended up falling asleep and that was a big mistake, and I definitely suffered So, I just woke up from, and my eyes are beginning It definitely hurts. The pain, on a scale of one to 10, 10 being really painful, it was a solid 11. It felt like someone shaved my eyes, and I couldn't do anything about it. Good morning. It's currently 7 a.m. Man, yesterday night, it I don't know if this is normal, but I also felt, like, hot But today it's a lot better. I also had to stick to of various eye drops: The antibiotic eye drops, the anti-inflammatory eye drops, and the preservative-free My eyes are still very sensitive to light, so they're kinda closed. Even, like, as I'm talking I ended up eating and sleeping some more. I used Siri to text a friend and continued to put on eye drops. Today's Saturday. Last night, I felt like so that's why it's good the artificial tears for, I also set a bunch of alarms to remind me when to put in all my eye drops, just in case I forgot or fell asleep. For the rest of the day, I was just listening to I'm noticing that my left eye can see a little more So hopefully within the next few days they'll both be clear, but that's kind of a By day three, I was beginning because I was stuck in my room all day not being able to do much. But it was really nice It's Sunday, 7 in the and I can kind of open without needing sunglasses. Not a lot of discomfort anymore. My eyesight has been fluctuating; sometimes, like, blurry, sometimes pretty crystal clear, but, yeah, it's slowly They look pretty good, right? I really wanted to wake &quot;Boom, oh, my gosh, I can see 20/20 without glasses or contacts.&quot; But that's not the case. It's Tuesday morning. I just showered with these guys on, just to protect myself from And I'm going into work, but before work, I'm going to go to the doctor's office to get these medical contacts out. First time walking outside. Sun is not too bad. I'm not super sensitive. Michelle: After being back my eyesight was still fluctuating. During the morning, I but then by early afternoon, When I was on the computer, I had to zoom in 175% to see clearly. This continued to happen Usually, when I come home, and then put on my glasses, and I was really tempted to do that today, but it's just so amazing how I don't have to do that anymore. It's officially two weeks since I got my medical contacts off and finally went back to work. My eyesight is still fluctuating, but I think I'm like 98% there. It's been kind of frustrating because I wanted my eyesight to be, like, clear by, like, two weeks, but it's taken some time, and I'm just patiently waiting still. Tomorrow will be the last day that I stop putting in my drops. So, yeah, definitely a lot of Hopefully the results will be worth it. It's officially been a and I can confidently say My right eye has definitely No pain, no dryness, no It's been awesome! I'm also traveling right now, to not need to bring glasses or contacts or solution with me. I think the last thing that's left to do is donate all my contact solution, because I'm not gonna need them anymore. Jade: Thank you! My final thoughts? I'm still amazed that the whole surgery only took about 15 minutes and that I didn't feel any pain during it. Dr. Koster and his team Although the idea of still scares me, I found that while the surgery was As for the post-surgery pain, the first night was but that probably could've been avoided if I had taken the Tylenol with codeine before I passed out by accident. Other than that, the first two nights, the pain was bearable, like, four out of 10. The most annoying part about for three weeks, my eyesight Getting my work done was And there were moments where that the surgery might not have worked. But I just kept thinking Dr. Koster: Let the science Michelle: And I just If you're thinking about doing PRK, I would be prepared to block I know with LASIK the with similar results. But doing PRK was worth the because now I get to without the need of glasses or contacts. If you're thinking of do your research. Find out which procedure is best for you and which doctors have And don't forget to follow all of their pre- and for the best results. That's, like, my eyeball! Jade: Yeah, like, you Like, it was so strange.