- Imagine that our sun is the size of just a single grain of sand. Now our sun is just one It's surrounded by over in our own Milky Way galaxy alone. Our sun is just a speck in (soft music) But the Milky Way galaxy of a 100 billion galaxies It's been estimated that in the universe than on all the beaches in all the world. Just think about that for a moment. The size and scale of the but as a scientist, what is that the human race has about what it looks like. Let me try and put this From our vantage point, orbiting around this single grain of sand we've managed to deduce the size and shape of all those beaches. To my mind this is one of the human races and I'd like to tell you (soft music) This film is the astonishing story of how we gazed upward from our isolated and unremarkable vantage point and began to deduce the of everything that there is. It's the story of how we at the largest scale. It's the story of everything. (fire crackling) I want you to pause for a moment and think about this one basic question. Here I am sitting under the night sky. Above me is the atmosphere the moon and way beyond that the stars. But then what? What's the totality of It's a question we've all I remember as a kid growing up in Baghdad, during the summer we'd take and I remember lying at the stars and wondering or whether the universe had an edge. Today we're beginning to this question really is. But 500 years ago, it simple answer. You see, the prevailing was enclosed in a vast, but that were fixed in position. (soft music) When you look up on a starry night, it's not difficult to we lived within this shell. But in the 16th century, which would shatter this It was an event that on a journey to uncover of everything. This is a type 1a Supernova, It's an event of almost It shines five billion times In 1572, a supernova like on planet earth. At the time it was known And to anyone who saw an extremely shocking This new light in the night sky, shine more brightly than during the day. It's not surprising then that many source a religious explanation for this bizarre and troubling event. - One possible interpretation which was put forward was that this is the 1,570 years earlier. It's the star that shined over Bethlehem and it's now returned. So something as cosmically of God on earth might be being - The phenomenon fascinated across Europe and in England of the MP of the sleepy His name was Thomas Digges. (soft music) But just as Digges began to it started to grow dimmer. Digges' friend, mentor, a man named John Dee, reasoned with him that this phenomenon something previously thought Perhaps it had grown brighter and faded as it had gone away. (soft music) Now although this theory was wrong, it got Digges thinking of the stars that surround the earth. It began to seem very unlikely in a vast thin shell. Maybe this apparent shell It would take Thomas before he published his strange idea. And when he did, it was in added to a translation of the the man who'd first argued that the sun was at the center of the universe. Have a look at this. On this side is Copernicus' it has the sun at the center, around it, along with the other planets. And then the outermost shell is that of the fixed stars, On this side is Digges' diagram included in the English translation. Exactly the same, but he's out of their fixed shell into endless space. Digges' diagram was describing of the cosmos. One where the stars in the night sky now existed in an infinite space. - Digges shows it, unlike Copernicus, Digges shows it as being infinite. This is a sphere, he says, of And that is a moment when to think of the world as as a world without end. - [Professor Jim] Digges' new picture of the universe was revolutionary. Previously we'd been of stars. Now we were suspended within (soft music) But this picture of everything If this infinite universe of stars, then why was it dark at night? - In the traditional old this universe was infinite and static. It was very soon recognized was ridiculous and that is because in such a universe, there of stars and every line of sight from ours would intercept one of these stars. A static infinite universe it should be glowing as bright as the sun and we know that's not our universe. Our universe, the night sky is dark. (soft music) - Although Thomas Digges the problem came to be As simple as the question sounds, it would take until the 20th century to find a truly satisfactory answer for why the night sky is Solving all this paradox would who weren't afraid to think differently, radically differently. You see, solving the paradox the shape, size, and origin Without this understanding, to solve. You see, stuck here on to interstellar travel, so to make that intellectual leap. (soft music) By simply looking up, Digges had begun a scientific journey might actually look like. But for 200 years after little progress was made in understanding the most distant reaches of the cosmos. At the end of the 18th century however, all that would change. - Until the end of the 1700's, everything that lies is for astronomers pretty uninteresting. Astronomy until then was of the earth and the planets, And the stars were a kind of glorified and rather interesting backdrop. This changes around 1800. (soft music) - This small and was once home to the and his sister and devoted Together they would develop and build a new generation of telescopes to see further out into had ever done before. William Herschel was born in Hanover, but moved to England in as a musician and composer. But he soon developed and began building Herschel soon perfected a borrowed from Sir Isaac Newton. The telescopes used metal mirrors that were capable of than the glass lenses that were popular among other astronomers. This tiny room at the used to be his workshop. It was here that he'd smelt in the furnace to make for his telescopes. And he would experiment different combinations as possible. Then with sister Caroline to help him, he'd spend literally hours of the mirrors to achieve And let's remember, this is quite a dangerous The floor still bears the that'd they'd spilled (soft music) With his powerful telescopes, Herschel and his sister Caroline night after night cataloging the stars. The universe they were to be one of dynamic complexities, a universe of natural organic motion, a place of endless wonder. Herschel's revolutionary With it he'd discover a discovery that would earn him the job of the King's Astronomer. Now this new role gave to start a much grander task to try and map all the in an attempt to draw a (soft music) In 1785, Herschel published It shows an approximation of the Milky Way with our sun residing at the center. Herschel had seen that we are a huge galaxy of suns that It appeared as though had actually allowed him to But soon, a nagging Docied around the sky, Herschel and others had been observing known as nebulae. Some of these nebulae seemed and complex structure. Some astronomers began to Perhaps the Milky Way wasn't Perhaps some of these nebulae gigantic galaxies of stars just like ours that actually existed in deep space. Unfortunately there was no way to answer this question satisfactorily The problem was that for all Herschel's great and for all those long cold nights that he spent with Caroline at the heavens, there was one They had no way of accurately in outer space. (soft music) It wouldn't be until that the cunning method was developed to measure the distances The technique was known If you look at an object like your finger from two vantage points, of reference. By observing how much it how far away it is. My finger is moving a lot than the building that's behind it. (soft music) Now an astronomer called that if you took images was at either side of it would be possible to By observing how much they their distance from us. Bessel calculated that the must be some 100 trillion kilometers away. But amazing though this technique was, it was still very severely limited. The diameter of the earth's This means the parallax method out to about 300 trillion of the size of the Milky Way. It soon became clear that there was plenty in the heaven that was particularly those mysterious nebulae. They would remain an of the 20th century when - One group of astronomers agrees that there is only one and everything else we the nebulae are all Then there are other many of these nebulae are unimaginably far away from us. There was evidence on both sides. (soft music) - This mystery remained until the beginning of the 1920's. The woman who would help solve the problem is one of the great She worked at the Harvard and her name was Henrietta Leavitt. Leavitt's job was to count producing images from She was a brilliant (soft music) This is one of the that Leavitt worked with. You can see her bright mark within the image. With meticulous care, of stars have been noted. (soft music) It was this ability that with an ingenious idea, the true size of the universe. The idea rested on of defining the true brightness of a star. Leavitt became fascinated known as a Cepheid variable, which pulses in the night sky. Her breakthrough was discovering was precisely related to Let me explain. These two stars are which means they should be If one star appears dimmer, how much further away it Leavitt's method meant that of the Cepheid variable. She'd found a method to that lay far beyond the But without access to a telescope, she could go no further with her work. She was forbidden from working in the supremely male dominated but her discovery now to measure the distances The idea that our Milky Way that existed was about to crumble. - The scale of the universe amazingly recently. In the 1920's it was absolutely plausible that the universe consists of one galaxy. And some of the best in the US for example, and had good evidence that it was true, and they were wrong. (soft music) - The evidence to finally would be found thanks to the being built at the just outside Los Angeles. Using this incredible piece of technology and Henrietta Leavitt's ingenious method for calculating distance, would make a discovery that would change our view of the universe and The astronomer was called Edwin Hubble. Hubble was a very different He was a larger than with a huge ego, but he and visionary scientist. He was born and grew up in America, but spent some time in to have had a lasting walking around the observatory &quot;by jove&quot; and &quot;what ho&quot; in a completely over the top british accent. (soft music) The talented, passionate, rapidly gained a name for himself but it wouldn't be until 1923 that he would discover as the Andromeda Nebula that would reveal the true I've come to the University to meet astronomer Dr. Steve Fossey to see for myself just what - We're gonna key in the to the console here. - [Professor Jim] So For Hubble and his studying Andromeda was a but today we can quickly in great detail. - So this is an image that we - Right. - And if I zoom in you'll see, just there is the Hubble sphere, the first sphere that he found that unlocked the whole problem. - Because presumably that's method of working out how far away it is. - Exactly, once he'd seen as a variable, he then just how bright that object really was. - And worked out that in our own galaxy, it had to be millions of light years away. - Absolutely, that's exactly it. And you see the nuclear region, but as we adjust the contrast here, I can stretch the contrast of the detail in the galaxy. - Oh wow. - [Professor Jim] Yep, yep. - You see dust lanes in of stars that are within Andromeda there. (soft music) - By finding one of the and measuring exactly how Hubble was able to use exactly how far away it was. This is the photographic plate where Hubble marked his Using it, he calculated that Andromeda was many many times more distant of the Milky Way. Andromeda was indeed an island universe. A vast galaxy of stars. We now know that Andromeda is light years away. This means that the light that reaches us from Andromeda today, left on its journey before modern humans had evolved. That's our neighbor? - That's our neighbor, galactic neighbor. - I have to remember that is the real thing. Using photons and have to reach my eye. - [Dr. Steve] That's right. - These are photons that are arriving in my eye. (soft music) Today, we have the power to see Andromeda as Hubble had only dreamed of. We now estimate that Andromeda contains over a trillion stars and it's just one of a scattered throughout our universe. (soft music) In 1923, the universe had been By 1924, the space that to be billions of times bigger and home to almost (soft music) Hubble had shown that of galaxies outside of our own and had pushed back the But he'd not seen an edge of space. He had not seen everything. There was still no clue as or even what shape it might be. To understand the strange would require more than just observations, it would require mathematics. A powerful new type of to describe the bizarre - When you're trying to it's easy to think what you do is you make lots of observations, and then you fit it all together But the problem is unless what the picture should be, you to make. You don't know what's significant. And throughout the history of science, every so often someone has to come up with a new mathematical idea. - The new mathematical ideas about space were so weird, so far that it would take over of Albert Einstein to formulate them. But when they were ready, of mathematics would lead to a revolution in our understanding of the (soft music) Okay, so what is space? We think we know the answer to this. I can talk about this room being spaceous. There's a lot of space in here. Or a confined space, not enough space. But does space only exist Does space only have a meaning Think of the distance between two objects, does that gap still exist if What meaning can we give to distance if it doesn't have a start and end point? Ultimately the question is this, does space in itself, have form? Does it have structure or shape? Or is it just a place where things happen? The properties of space by the mathematician in his legendary text The Elements. In it, he laid down a set about space in what today - Euclidean geometry is the every day. If you're sitting in the room and it's the usual rectangular room, what you see is lots of straight lines, right angles, you see parallel lines. If you have a window, the two sides of the window are parallel. If you extended them, they'd stay exactly the same distance apart, And the other thing you would see if you looked a little closer the angles in the triangle And that's characteristic And people used to how geometry was, that (soft music) - For Euclid himself, and for the next 2,000 years, these rules weren't just true mathematically, they were also true statements about physical reality itself. So they thought that two parallel lines would remain parallel forever, that a triangle in real space would always have angles adding up to 180 degrees. But, weird as though this might sound, Many others would refine but one of his greatest achievements will be to give us a cunning method of accurately measuring curvatures. It would become known simply Let me explain with this globe. You see, we can see that because we can stand back and look at it. But what if you were an how would it know that So imagine you're the at the North Pole and facing south, you move down towards the Equator. At the Equator, you still face South and you shuffle sideways Then you reach a certain point and then you start walking backwards, so you're still facing the same direction, and head back to the North Pole. Now, look what's happened here. You've been pointing and yet when you arrive you're facing in a different direction. Understanding this gives the curvature of a surface This was an amazing insight, but it only applies to curved surfaces, which are two-dimensional. It would take a brilliant Bernard Riemann to develop these ideas in a way that could be applied to the three-dimensional It would be a daring, outlandish, absurd sounding concept. Aged just 26, Riemann about geometry in a lecture that was to become legendary In June, 1854, Riemann to an enraptured audience. In them, he detailed how on curved surfaces and generalized them so that they applied not only to curved two-dimensional surfaces, but the curvature of (rapid clapping) Okay, so I'm sure this all What exactly do we mean by So, let me try and explain. Here's the thing, Gauss two-dimensional surfaces. Well, here we have a sheet of paper and it's two-dimensional. So if I curve it, we can but only because it's Now, what if we curved three dimensions, presumably, we'd need a fourth dimension. But how do you get to this It's impossible to step outside of our three-dimensional world. Wherever you travel in the universe, no matter how far you in three dimensions. The genius of Riemann was to stand in a fourth dimension to tell it's space was curved. You could actually do it from the inside. But for Riemann, this would always remain a purely mathematical idea. It would take Albert Einstein to tie these mathematical ideas together and apply bendy, to the real space that surrounds us. - I think the most important of non-Euclidean geometry is it shows how mathematics in the real world relate and it starts out with asking, could there be a And if anyone came to why are you studying in that? They'd say, I don't have a clue. What's it useful for? No idea. It's just interesting. But they prodded around and they found a surprising answer, that different geometries were possible and even at that point, nobody for this idea. And then when the moment is right, Einstein comes along and that's real physics. And suddenly this piece becomes vital to the - Einstein would reveal that we live not in the flat world of Euclid, but in the strange curved In the space of a few short years, Einstein went from wrestling with some of the most difficult and to dinner dates with Charlie Chaplin. And it was all thanks to the the general theory of relativity. In the general theory of relativity, Einstein took the mathematics and used it to paint a of the physical world. He showed that just as the geometry of the space around us isn't always of the regular Right, now, since newton's time, gravity that pulls all objects together. So if I drop this apple, it's as though there's that's pulling it down towards the earth. But Einstein's general gives us a completely different picture But the equations of general They revealed that it that caused the space The reason we have gravity is actually bending the space around it. - In Einsteinian theory of the universe, space becomes a dynamic entity Space knows about the and responds to the presence in really interesting ways. So what was in the 16, a very boring still object, come up with a description and time we exist in can be warped. They showed that space and unchanging stage on which the actions of the universe are played out, they're actually part of the performance. It was soon realized that of relativity applied to a way of being able to and imagine how it might be And when they did this, they saw something that was extremely disturbing. The equations were getting a that seemed ridiculous. They were describing something It seemed preposterous could be some sort of moving, It was such a strange refused to believe it. Einstein had overturned of space and time, held by but he still couldn't accept might be dynamic and changing. In fact, he was so convinced that he was prepared to by adding an extra turn called that would stabilize the universe. But Einstein was trying to fix It's at this point that our Armed with the Hooker telescope, Hubble would reveal the truth to believe. After discovering that of many, Hubble began to study the ways in which these other galaxies were moving. Hubble knew that as a the light wave would become If an object was receding, the light waves will become stretched out and appear red. What he saw was astounding. All distant galaxies They were all moving away from us. Not only that, but the the faster it was moving away. Hubble's observations and of relativity were in agreement, but, and this is the crucial point here, it's not that the galaxies are through space, but rather that the fabric of space itself, in between So the universe in its This is what Hubble and (soft music) Einstein soon visited Hubble He would go on to admit had been his biggest scientific blunder. So why was space expanding in this way? Both Hubble and Einstein if the fabric of space was expanding, it meant previously the Rewind the clock far enough back, and it appeared as if there was a point when our entire universe began. (dark music) The data were pointing towards But many scientists were not convinced by this apparent Big Bang. It seems like a leap too far. But there was one piece of evidence that had the power to convince everyone. It seemed that if the then sometime after the a flash of light should have been emitted throughout the universe. Every part of the cosmos with this light. And it turned out it was, it just happened to be As unlikely as it sounds, the relic of the Big Bang Fireball was Let me explain how this is possible. Imagine this balloon is our universe. Here it is just a few At this point, something because the universe to visible light as atoms form. It is though a fog has able to travel freely At every point in space, photons began to travel unimpeded and the entire universe But this light, released of the early universe As space expanded, it from visible light down into microwaves. And it's these microwaves by television aerials. Incredibly, almost 1% of this static is the afterglow of creation itself. It's the stretched out remnants in the universe. Using the microwave radiation, cosmologists could even date it. Our entire universe is This beginning of everything of information needed to answer had first posed over 400 years ago. It would finally give us for why it gets dark at night. Okay, so here it is, here's makes sense. The further away a star is, for its light to reach the earth. So, if the universe has then all the light that's out there will have had time to reach us and the night sky would but it's not. And here's why. Imagine when the universe was much younger and smaller than it is today. A beam of light on the begins a journey towards But as space expands, the keeps getting bigger and bigger. Fast forward to today, and this light still hasn't reached us. So no matter how hard we look into the sky we simply won't be able to see it. We can only see the stars time to reach us in the 13.7 billion years since the Big Bang. This region is known as And there are not enough stars here to light up the night sky. So we only ever see the stars and galaxies whose light has had a chance to reach us and that's why it gets dark at night. (soft music) - I think it's a fact that the sky at night is dark. It's in fact incredibly profound. It took 200 years of It took the development before we could understand - By reasoning and we found ever better of the confines of our small We've become ever more of everything. This is a computer in its infancy. Using it, we can see has shaped the universe The brightest whites and show where galaxies and You can see how as the universe evolves, a strange and hidden This is the cosmic web. It's our best picture might look like at the largest scales. It shows massive clusters of galaxies linked together in vast filaments, each one containing trillions of stars. Its scale is sometimes but it would take light to cross the distance in this image. But this incredible picture of everything is destined to change. We're starting to understand that in the distant future, a terrifyingly bleak and desolate place. In 1998, a team of in which they looked in distant galaxies. They were hoping to how fast the universe is expanding. Now they expected to find was slowing down, just of all the matter in the universe. But, they were in for a big surprise. The universe was getting bigger, faster. The rate of expansion was accelerating. There seemed to be some mysterious force pushing everything apart. We still don't understand its origin, but it's been dubbed dark energy. There's one fascinating, yet If the expansion of the universe then our visible universe Let me explain. Imagine I'm in a distant galaxy Now as the space between us stretches, there'll come a time in the future when it's expanding so can't outrun it and the galaxy What this means is that some hundred billion years from now, if intelligent life forms they'll look out into space in our own Milky Way. All the other galaxies and they'll be alone in a (dramatic music) I have here a box. What would happen if I I possibly could from inside it. What then exists inside Is it really nothing? (dramatic music)