Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard, celebrate the lives of those who lived resting places. Today we're heading south as Patti Page, Karen Black, Bobby Driscoll, Summer is upon us, with the road trip south to sunny San laid to rest here, so today we kick off San Diego - a tour which will span two As we cruise along the coast down the visit Eternal Hills Memorial Park. The cemetery sits on 130 acres of rolling hills and dates back to the 1940s. We'll begin our tour here just in from This distinctive monument featuring a you may have guessed, was a musician and marker he rose to prominence playing in After the war he would work as a studio film and television. electro-theremin, an instrument which He could be heard performing that of the TV show, My Favorite Martian. The Boys hit, &quot;Good Vibrations.&quot; Tanner died of If we follow the sidewalk west we find the grave of professional football player, a the Patriots. He had a storied career, in 1992, and was a 12-time Pro Bowl passionate playing, and was beloved by shocked when Seau took his own life at light on the NFL's concussion crisis and brain damage from excessive trauma which His autopsy concluded that Seau have led to the depression that drove The Chargers retired his number 55, and Pro Football Hall of Fame. Continuing west we find a section called road is Susan Morrow, whose real name made her screen debut in 1951s She would go on to play the female lead The Savage. Subsequent years would see her in of the Moon, and Macabre, a film touted as a $1,000 insurance policy against &quot;death Susan retired from acting in the 60s She was just 52 when she died. Let's stop real quick on this little to the owner and manager of Eternal Cockrill looks like the world's tiniest He's entombed in a crypt by the lake. Across the street is the Court of the and wife entertainers John and Pearl circuit together as Early and Laight. They would make one appearance in silent film, later in life Pearl would have a number Across the street south is the lower level and take the first right. Dick Simmons. He was an actor best known for Preston in the 1955 series, Sergeant ended he continued to have a successful appearances on shows like Death Valley He died at age 89 from Alzheimer's Back out to the grounds let's make our way around to Sunset Section. Up the hill a short ways is Merritt Bohn. television in the 50s and 60s. And we can Mr. Bohn can be seen in two One for the Angels, and Steel. &quot;You're lucky to get a bout. We ain't used nothing less than B-4s Fighter we had got ruined in a car wreck He also played an assistant warden Merritt Bohn died of pneumonia at age 73. Let's continue to the northern end of this recognize our next star. Several spaces Bobby Driscoll. The highly acclaimed exclusive contract with Disney. His Song of the South. He would go on to star in Treasure Island. Bobby was also the model &quot;How do we get to Neverland?&quot; &quot;Fly, of course!&quot; &quot;Fly?&quot; &quot;It's easy!&quot; Outside of Disney he had a role in the 1949 noir, The Window. His performances in earned him a juvenile Academy Award in the 50s his career began to decline. His abuse, run-ins with the law, and bullying The downfall of Bobby Driscoll is a After spending time in a narcotics York in hopes of reviving his career on but was unsuccessful. Penniless, Driscoll in the late 60s. In March of '68, in a The Window, two boys playing in a deserted body of Bobby Driscoll. He had died from no identification on his body so photos but he went unidentified and unclaimed. child star in the world, was buried in a The following year his mother her son. This would lead to fingerprint discovered in that abandoned tenement though his name is here on his father's on Hart Island. Given his legacy perhaps Bobby Driscoll as a Disney Legend. Doubling back we make our way now to the This is the Garden of Protection. Passing by the this lawn we find an icon of New and songwriter became a prominent figure in the 70s. Her role in Easy Rider would Five Easy Pieces, alongside Jack The role earned her an Academy Award &quot;You know, I'd go out with you. Or, I'll stay in with ya. Or I'll do anything if you would tell me that you love me.&quot; Other films include House of 1000 Corpses, and She also wrote and performed songs for her She kept busy performing an indie, arthouse, from cancer at age 74. Just across the This is the final resting place of Lloyd the Korean War after which he began his Lloyd is perhaps best remembered for his teacher Pete Dixon, in the Emmy Award which ran from 1969 to 1974. The role earned him an Emmy You can also see him and shows like Dynasty. He was just 52 when he died from That'll do it for Eternal Hills. Let's We're in the Sorrento Valley area Memorial Park. This 220-acre cemetery was see a number of bells. &quot;Bells... the tintinnabulation from the bells, bells, bells, bells, These bells represent the Southern original route of the El Camino Real Just in from the entrance on the left Our first visit here at El Camino but a star millions, Jonas Salk. In the early feared childhood diseases. The infectious muscle weakness and often paralysis. particularly devastating, especially atomic bomb, polio was the nation's virologist who headed the team that approved for widespread use in 1955. The having effectively eradicated the It's fitting we should visit him now in the scientists just like Salk are working for Covid-19, which in time will also Continuing East we reach Loma Siesta find Dorothy Kelly, sometimes credited with the silent film actress Dorothy was an actress in around a Mary in 1942s Flying with Music, and The remainder of four roles were mainly from acting in 1946 after playing a show when she died reportedly from injuries Further east, on the right, is Vista Del Lago section. Let's make our Overlooking the lake we find the grave Gunsmoke, one of the longest-running TV as Doc Adams in over 600 episodes. The &quot;You know, you haven't got the What you ought to do instead of sleeping half the day and why, you ought to read little... keep Before Gunsmoke he played Skeeter Milligan in the He died from a heart attack at age 75 Still further east we reach the Taking a long stroll to the middle of this lawn Billy Daniels. The legendary singer was as well as a descendant of He began singing in clubs had a best-selling hit with his would become his signature tune. [music] He would become New and toured Europe as America's most roles in films like When You're Smiling, The Billy Daniel's Show. And let's not forget about 600 performances of Golden Boy with Billy Daniels died from cancer at age 73. Back to the west we the Loma Siesta Circle. North of the This is where we find silent film actress Violet La Plante. In 1925 she was chosen as a WAMPAS Baby Star - one of 13 young threshold of movie stardom, an honor her had been given two years and her final film, How to Handle the advent of the talkies in 1928, and Let's make our way now around and up the Ooo, look out! Here we are at the Tranquility Terrace. singin' rage, Miss Patti Page. The country best-selling female artists of the 1950s, She delighted audiences with hits like &quot;Old Cape Cod,&quot; And her signature tune, &quot;Tennessee Waltz.&quot; [music] Her style was unique and distinct in that she would harmonize backing vocals She would often perform on television, Oldsmobile Show, in the 1950s, and even She was inducted into the posthumously awarded a Grammy Lifetime Patti Page died from heart and lung Onward now to the end of the road, and the Mausoleum of the Bells. The resemblance to another set of golden the corner - you'll recall if you saw our McDonald's, Ray Kroc. The first McDonald's McDonald brothers in San Bernardino in McDonald brothers to expand the So while Kroc was not technically the grew and developed the McDonald's that recognized and successful fast-food portrayed by Michael Keaton in the 2016 McDonald's, The Founder. Later in life he He died of heart failure at age 81. Finally we head into the Sanctuary of Love to find the crypt of husband and Sheila Darcy was an actress best known of the 30s and 40s, like Zorro's She's also remembered as the Dragon Lady uncredited role in 1951's Tomahawk, marrying actor and singer Preston Foster. the Broadway play Two Seconds when he the play alongside Edward G. Robinson. a Chain Gang, and The Last Days of during the war when he served on the emerging world of television, in shows His performances earned him a nomination as 1955 Emmys. Preston Foster died in 1970 And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite memories Share them in the comments below, and be more famous grave tours. Thanks for watching! I happened to visit Eternal Hills on performance of Taps by a fireman in the