What is The Purpose of Life? &quot;I have reached the pinnacle of However, beyond my career, I find little joy. that I've come to accept. ... ultimately, the loneliness remains. happiness doesn't stem from material things. when the plane lands, you ___(Steve Jobs, the founder of Apple wrote this in his last letter) Life has no purpose. The whole idea of purpose is Life is pure joy, a play, laughter, Life is its own purpose; it has no other you understand all there is The most important thing to remember is that a specific purpose. It exists for the pure the moment you achieve silence, meditation, fully in that moment--there are no goals, no a blessing in itself. Life isn't logical; life logic. Have you ever asked why you love, for enjoy watching a beautiful sunset? Why a starry It is about living your life in complete joy, no purpose at all. Like little collecting shells and colored stones--for Chapter 1. Perspectives from OSHO. &quot;Meditation is about living fully and without any purpose at no purpose whatsoever. It's like children colored stones--for what purpose? When I was a child, I used to bring home many and I would go to bed with all sorts And my father would say, 'Throw those And I would always ask him, 'First answer business, making money, raising your And my father would say, 'It's totally pointless stones and whatever else you want to keep!' stones in my pockets again, he And I was always ready: 'First prove to keep money in a safe, why can't I keep safe--if you give me one, I'll keep me... That's your question, not mine! I Eventually, he dropped the idea, thinking When I came home from university, very natural thing in India. The moment you 'Now get married!' He knew me--that it would he asked one of his lawyer friends, who was very was famous for winning impossible cases... And the loudest person in town. He would bang the such chaos that everyone was afraid of him! The lawyer said, 'This is simple! I've beaten and I've won cases even for murderers, He came and he asked me, 'Why I said, 'Absolutely! I'll get married!' He was completely baffled, didn't know what to do, because he came fully prepared, with all beauty and its joy and its intimacy, I said, 'Absolutely! Where is the He said, 'Weird! Your father told me that you are I said, 'I'm not arguing. I'm ready to get before you bring the girl, you have to tell me what have you achieved through your marriage? you are almost like a father to I will get married. But you have to tell me one about your married life. You might have won many house! You have not been able to win even one He said, 'What are you implying? Why would you I said, 'Before your wife, you have what your life has been for, what 'I will get married--I'm ready--if you can All those arguments you prepared... and I didn't then you will have to divorce your wife! After that I went to his house every day, sometimes he hid beside the back door. His wife he afraid of this kid?' And she asked me, 'What's He hides in the bathroom, he says he's sick, keeps thinking about you. What's going on?' question for your husband to think about. He has will gather every neighbor, who are witnesses the whole town! He has to prove that he has then he has to divorce you!' I said, 'That's the issue. If I have to get at risk. It's a gamble! I'm gambling my whole his past. I have no past, he has no future!' touched my feet. He said, 'Forgive me, and my life! I've been in so much trouble, dreams at night I see you. And I know you Life has no purpose. Nothing has any The moment you bring purpose into it, you and meditation is absolutely beyond the idea it has intrinsic value. It is not a Chapter 2. Answers from J. Krishnamurti life? What are we seeking through the concept the inherent meaning? Why Often, our lives become empty and monotonous, filled with repetitive and superficial activities. drives us to seek a deeper meaning in life. Those who accept things "as they are" and are the purpose of life. For them, life itself However, our problem lies in the emptiness but these efforts are merely products of purpose is driven by ignorant minds or Therefore, our goal should be to enrich steering clear of mysticism. When someone or the pursuit of God, it often reflects predefined by our limited understanding, can only emerges when we engage with When we seek a purpose for life, we are actually Life is about relationships and the actions to understand or manage these relationships Why is our life so empty? Why do we feel so alone do not reflect on and understand ourselves. We know and that it needs to be fully and completely and that is why we search for a purpose If we start to understand our actions, possessions, beliefs, and ideas, we themselves provide their own rewards. Like the search for love, can you find be nurtured by pursuit; it is found within lack love, we search for a purpose in life. and then there is no need to search Our minds, cluttered with technical information and that is why we seek a purpose beyond we must go through the door of we avoid facing reality as it is, and so The question of life's purpose is only can only be found in action, in Chapter 3. Does Success Truly Bring Happiness? the UK, in his final moments, remarked, - Leonardo da Vinci, heralded time with roles including painter, &quot;I have disappointed God and mankind because my - Isaac Newton, the eminent scientist, reflected sees me, but to myself, I seem to have finding a smoother pebble or a whilst the great ocean of truth - Steve Jobs, the founder of Apple and a symbol of &quot;I have reached the pinnacle of success in I find little joy. Wealth is just a fact of life is 300 or 30 square meters, ultimately, you realize that true happiness doesn't choose first class or economy, when the These poignant words clearly show that despite these individuals did not feel content own private sufferings and continually yearned fame, and wealth do not equate to the cessation of Chapter 4. Understanding the Purpose of In this life, nearly everyone, to some extent, the true meaning of this life? Is it that humans children, grow old, and then die? Throughout the happiness, and myriad hardships, sorrows, and more worry than relief, and more bitterness than existence? In this world, all humans (except the rich or poor, intelligent or not, of any race and pleasure, whether material or spiritual. This If we observe carefully, the seeking joy and happiness&quot; naturally arises enjoy happiness.&quot; But is the purpose of life perception is true, then in Buddhism it is called it is known as &quot;Ignorance&quot; or &quot;Delusion.&quot; Each person is different, and so is also continually changes. This search may include power, success--essentially, both material and happiness. However, upon closer examination, things. Humans do not really need them; what is it? As they strive for material and spiritual then I will cease to suffer.&quot; Therefore, religions, nations, or humanity as a whole aims For example, when humans venture the real purpose is not knowledge of the humanity on Earth end suffering. When decoding genes but to invent new methods to free There may be arguments that the purpose of life happiness. However, the joy and happiness that are striving to attain in the future. Because perceive that if they have these things in the what humans really need is to end suffering, humans use joy and pleasure as For example, for a drug addict, even though drugs do they truly need that happiness? They only use are tormented by suffering. Once the suffering is Similarly, people need sleep when their bodies are only need it to quell the feeling of suffering. it is sought only when desire rises so However, the truth is: Happiness does not those around us, as well as information from the their own suffering. Those who are not yet the wealthy toil to protect and grow their those who are married tire from family painfully seek ways to have children; and those individuals seek material and spiritual Thus, regardless of external circumstances, all their lives. The perception that the purpose is a mistaken understanding. Each time and the vicious cycle of suffering continues, Chapter 5. The Dual Burden: Suffering In the exhausting journey of life, most of us our shoulders, comprised of suffering and worries, it with joy and happiness. However, few this burden has two ends: one end is In reality, the desire to leave behind one In Buddhist scriptures, there is a vivid example any one of which could kill instantly with bathe these snakes, even though they are always trying to escape their pursuit. While hiding from robbers with gleaming swords chasing him. And six robbers, he comes face-to-face with a giant kill you.&quot; He runs into empty houses looking for a seeing across the river a land free from snakes, peace. He quickly makes a raft from branches This side, from which he is fleeing, symbolizes the other side, the place of peace, symbolizes These images not only illustrate the four basic water, wind, fire--but also suggest that we live to not stop at the physical level but also affect To meet these demands, humans must labor leading to endless bitterness and sorrow. That is in an unbreakable chain. Humans continuously science, literature, and music, creating wonders, sublime and sacred. Yet, desires and cravings The image of the empty house, with nowhere to under the sea, or in the there is no place where one can taught that desires bring little joy but much With a clear understanding of this dual way to lay down one end, as there can be no The journey across the river, from the is the quest for liberation, to escape the aiming for eternal serenity. The perception that the purpose of life is to a delusion or illusion. It is from this illusion of ending suffering. Therefore, no matter the happiness one achieves, humans cannot time a desire or dream is fulfilled, one but a new desire emerges, and the goal recedes and pleasure as merely means to achieve the reveals that these means cannot actually lead within suffering, merely exchanging one form of No one on this earth, regardless of how much or spiritually, can escape suffering. the king of rock, who was successful in terms he sang his last song, which moved his fans to come whenever I endlessly seek?&quot; This was his own encountering suffering, which persists. This is a acknowledged this horrifying reality, but instead truly end suffering?&quot;, they simply exclaimed, The Buddha, after ending suffering, taught his practiced his teachings achieved the cessation of upon reaching the goal of life which is to end holy life has been lived, what had to be done has life.&quot; Only the enlightened truly see this: The the real destination of humankind. Those who have When suffering ends, there is no longer any happiness, or material or spiritual pleasure. For where they sleep, what they wear, whether there all becomes irrelevant, leaving only the minimal