You've seen him take on the hottest pepper conveniently get shipped in the mail. You've seen him survive three days homeless You've seen him live for twenty four hours driver trust issues. Now we're turning over our fourth-from-the-bottom leaving him to your mercies. Today we're putting him in a survival challenge 72 hours alone in the forest. Ok before I get into my experiences with this that this might be my last challenge episode. The infographics show pays me well for the into, but after this challenge I have had to continue with these challenges. As you'll find out, I ran into some serious bad multiple times, and I think I just need Unfortunately I lost my journal during one memory on re-telling my wilderness survival When I first got the challenge I was kind I do these challenges is because I like pushing I hate sitting at home being comfortable all I've accepted that that's just who I am. It definitely drives the girlfriend crazy normal life. Three days and nights alone in the forest, real forest. For this challenge I actually went up to NorCal, Plus we're entering fall which means that are going to get very, very cold and possibly this challenge extremely dangerous. For a solo challenge with no support, I'm I went up north enough to hit the rainforests have warned that we shouldn't give out any enough to try to go up there and repeat our This is also a perfect opportunity to state Seriously, don't. I know it sounds easy to do some silly challenge, pretty serious business. I have training courtesy of the US military and years of experience putting that knowledge You may think you're ready from watching a me you're not. This isn't some weird flex, it would honestly go out there and try this for real and got If you're interested in survival, take some Get out there into the woods in a supervised Matter of fact, I recommend it to everyone- will come in handy. Now, back to the challenge. So for this challenge I will have only a survival or anything like that. It is literally a folding knife and that's It has a reinforced grip and the bottom of to smash things but that's about all the utility I'll also have the clothes I wear, which will t-shirt, sweat-shirt, and poncho. Sadly, I can only take the socks I get to fresh socks in a survival situation, the moment dramatically. That's about it- except for four packets of compass. The energy gel is for emergencies only, and my way back to my pick-up at the end of three I am going to only briefly peruse the map be scouting out the wilderness myself to find No cheating by pinpointing the location of I originally wanted to take a crew member might be fun for you guys to see more than crew is pretty expensive, and then there's as well as insurance which adds up to a pretty Basically, until The Infographics is a tv You know what to do fans, start writing to I got dropped off at five in the morning on in the military who live in the local area. We mapped out a general area which I would boundaries such as a set of cliffs and a river, locations for pick-up. This way if I got injured there would always get to no matter where within the area I wandered. Also it would give any search and rescue party Planning is extremely important for wilderness When you're in a survival situation you have your needs in order of priority. My first need was to find water, as I could but would get into trouble really fast if I'm near the coast but hopefully everyone absolute no-go. One big benefit though is that early in the trees and bushes with water droplets. My problem was that I had no container to and take off my poncho to turn that into a When you're in the wilderness, staying dry quickly lead to hypothermia even if the outside Water is really good at leeching heat from to stay dry as much as you can. However being wet is also a really good way hold, and can absolutely devastate your feet. Once more, if your feet go bad your odds of Go image search trench foot and you'll see sure you do it on an empty stomach. I gathered the corners of my poncho to turn t-shirt off while putting back on my sweatshirt, tall grasses and tree leaves. Then it was as simple as ringing out the water decent amount of water stored up. Enough that I felt safe looking for a more With water temporarily taken care of, I started If you can find a cave, that's the most ideal worry about animals who are thinking the same and bears here in the US. I was too far from the mountains in the distance I could pretty easily build a lean-to shelter leaves. Location though is important, so I surveyed my shelter. I was very near the coast, probably only two sloped slowly upwards to the distant mountains There was another stretch of mountains north broad valley, and that's very good news- because odds of finding a small stream or full-blown snow has to run off somewhere, and it would the mountain cul-de-sac I was in, or it would I hiked for a few hours as the sun started If you're relying on condensation from mist in the morning because as soon as the sun Shortly before noon I hit a small creek winding as I had predicted, so I decided to set up You might be tempted to build your shelter be a bad idea for several reasons. First of all, heavy rain or other events further rise, which could wash away your shelter. Second, animals like water too, including It's important to note though that even herbivores have killed people before. I decided I'd build my lean-to about twenty lucky when I found a large overturned tree With the two trees acting as wall and roof, and laying them over both trees. Then I covered the leafy branches with dead in turn with a layer of dirt, and once more Thankfully there were plenty of bushes around little lean-to built. Even better, I found a bunch of grubs in the little pincers some of them have, they make Grubs may be gross, but they're jam-packed Generally, the grosser an insect looks to The only bugs you should avoid are any with you should eat those only if you've roasted You can still get parasites from plenty of your odds of danger as much as possible. Survival is risky business, plain and simple. I decided that the next thing I needed was something for self-defense. This being fall, the odds of running into most bears would be looking for a place to who didn't pack on as many pounds and were These bears are far more dangerous than they into play very soon. I decided I'd use the knife to make a spear, branch I could use. It took a bit of time but I managed to find it, but instead of sharpening the tip into enough to simply split the top of it in a In an emergency, I could jam the open knife and I would have myself a pretty efficient stick. It would probably only last a few jabs into enough to drive it back. Next I set about working on a way to contain Notice again that I'm more worried about water important water is. This being a pacific northwest rain forest, as I would eventually need it to stay dry I tried finding discarded tree bark hoping a rough bowl shape, but I actually got even bag. Normally I hate people who litter, but in needed. Though you still shouldn't litter. Water is good, but water safety is also very make the water from the creek safe to drink. I found tree bark which I could rip off, and I could bend just slightly into a very shallow It wouldn't hold much water, and I'd be reduced was the best I could do. I'd need fire to make the water safe though, before. It actually took me until just a few hours Starting a fire with no tools has always been most of the wood I could find was pretty humid to be. Without tools the best way to start a fire work like a charm, and a piece of large, soft You can typically find soft wood in the large very young tree in half. The wood from dead trees is hard, and no good you need, a stick of very hard wood. Basically, you create a channel down the middle the bottom of it. Then with your hard wood stick, you rub it Repeatedly. For hours. Until you finally cause enough friction to Now I've seen people do this in just fifteen Like I said, not my strong suit in the survival Eventually though I had a small fire just large flat rocks so that I could eventually For now though I had spent my entire day setting so there wouldn't be much food to eat. Instead I heated up one of the large flat pulled it out with sticks. I immediately placed my make-shift bowl on as I could manage- which wasn't very much, Boiling water was going to be out of the question up enough it can destroy harmful bacteria. It is an imperfect solution, but like I said job is to simply mitigate, not negate, those With a decent little camp set up, I returned I could score some water critters for dinner. I didn't want to be away from camp when night so I didn't spend much time looking. Sadly the only thing I managed to score was to curve my hunger after not eating all day. That's alright though, because I had water Dealing with hunger is easy as long as you're That night I planned my strategy out for day I had dried my clothing over the fire, and the fire. Water was nearby and plentiful, and I figured getting sick by drinking without treating of water at a time just wasn't going to work I knew I was only a few miles from the coast, beach to find mussels and other edibles- the you don't mind the gross taste. All in all, my situation was looking pretty in a small pit inside my lean-to when it started Then, things took a turn for the weird, and I don't know at what time of night it was, It almost sounded like human screaming, but The sounds were coming from a few miles away, I'm pretty familiar with the sounds of the owl or bellowing elk or wounded animal of The sounds changed between short, high-pitched Sometimes they would come from one direction, different direction. I've never been around wolves in the wild, I know, only I'm pretty sure there are no The howls and screams came pretty intermittently, but it lasted for a long while. I wasn't going to risk going to sleep with it was one or two weird, or wounded elk, they I've just never heard them scream in this Either way, wounded animals are dangerous. It was lucky that I stayed awake, because a watch- after the howls and screams settled shuffling in the woods very nearby. I already had my knife wedged into my makeshift go ice cold, because I was pretty sure I knew These were sounds I recognized. A black bear lumbered through the trees, just I held perfectly still hoping it wouldn't it probably spotted my lean-to and though it: dry shelter in the rain. Sure enough, it started slowly sniffing and I had no fire going, just some smoldering away with fire was out of the question. Anybody who's served in the military is probably It stands for Observe, Understand, Decide, terms of how to psychologically defeat an Knock one of those steps out of the cycle up. It is also however a handy mnemonic device from pilots to special forces operators typically cycle in an emergency. The first thing I did was carefully observe It was definitely not full-grown, and was This meant two things: an inexperienced juvenile up for winter. On one hand, it could make the bear desperate On the other hand, it was likely weak, and it was likely a bit of a pushover. I also tapped into what I know about predatory They prefer to ambush prey or launch hunts shy animals and can have very low confidence This is because if a hunt goes awry, they their ability to hunt and possibly lead to This is why you never run away from a predatory away confidently. Running triggers the hunt instinct, because than it and scared. I decided to take a huge gamble, and I ran and yelling, thrusting with my spear. All things considered, I was basically trapped outrun you. It was a risk, but remember what I said about The bear immediately reared up on its paws, it meant that it might try to fight back. Luckily for me, yelling and stabbing at the trick, and the bear lost its nerve and scampered I've been in close calls before with wild off a bear standing on its two hind legs. It is not something I care to ever repeat minimum. The bear lumbered off, but I knew it wasn't Any minute the bear could change its mind, took off into the pitch black, rainy woods. Normally you never want to move at night time, If you have to, use stars above you to pinpoint a straight line. That way in daylight you can retrace your ground. I walked for about fifteen minutes, and had pine. Luckily the rain abetted after a few hours, night. The next morning I made my way back to my and trashed the place. I made the right call. Luckily, days two and three were far less I relocated my shelter to the other side of and three. I changed my sleep schedule though to sleep of wandering bear again. Also I won't lie, those weird howls and screams with the bear. On the coast I managed to find edible mussels immediately regretted- and then roasted the Mussels are great for energy, but you have they can add a lot of salt water to your system. If you aren't peeing regularly, the salt in By the way, they taste like mermaid boogers I also managed to find some edible flowering With flowering plants you want to pluck the stem can be really bitter and unpleasant. The bud of the flower and the petals though typically grow in most places. If you really don't mind the bitterness, you which are chock full of minerals and nutrients- whose flower is umbrella shaped. Those are poisonous and may not kill you, Lichens and bugs made up most of the rest rotting logs. I couldn't remember which mushrooms are edible better not to risk them. Also mushrooms don't actually pack a lot of for them unless you have no other options. Same goes for trying to hunt. Wilderness survival is a numbers crunching as possible while gaining the most possible Hunting can burn a lot of calories, so forget or a rabbit- and even then only go after them or happen to find a burrow or warden. I made it through my three days pretty alright, My encounter with the bear though definitely situation which could have gone very badly. The girlfriend wasn't happy to hear about these challenges- they have definitely started think about if I really want to keep taking I love reading some of the feedback from you and sometimes even enlightening, but I guess me reconsider. I'm not saying that I'm never going to do to give it some thought. At the very least, I need a raise. Have you ever been stuck in a survival situation? What wilderness survival tips do you have Tell us in the comments! Now go watch "I Went Homeless For 72 Hours!" As always don't forget to Like, Share, and