- [Andrew Huberman] Welcome where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. - I'm Andrew Huberman. And I'm a Professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we are going to and disordered eating. And indeed, we are going to talk about clinical eating disorders, such as anorexia, bulimia, as well as some other However, before we get into this material, I want to emphasize that what it is to have a healthy We're going to talk about metabolism. We're going to talk about and what one eats influences and satiety, as well as whether psychological relationship and so-called body composition, to bone, et cetera. So, as we march into this conversation, I'd like to share with and what I believe are of nutrition and human behavior. I know these days, many people are excited about or curious about so-called intermittent fasting, intermittent fasting simply restricting one's feeding behavior, eating to a particular or so-called circadian cycle. Other forms of intermittent for extended periods of or some people will extend to two days or three days typically. And hopefully they will drink sometimes referred to as water fasting, which means that they And hopefully they are ingesting potassium and magnesium as well, because well one can of time without ingesting calories, it is extremely important of fluids and electrolytes. And the reason for that is and body that control your clarity of thinking in general, et cetera, is critically dependent on the of sodium, potassium and And that's because neurons can by way of movement of particular ions, which include things like So, without those, you can't think, you can't can be quite dangerous. So, why all the excitement Well, a lot of the excitement by a former colleague of mine, down at the Salk Institute in San Diego, named Satchin Panda, Satchin's lab identified and impactful health one's feeding window to particular or even to having extended or two days, or maybe even three days. What they saw was an improvement in liver enzymes and improvement which is something that is good. It means that you can utilize the calories and the blood sugar being insulin insensitive is not good, and is actually a form of diabetes. What Satchin's lab and was that restricting one's from four to eight or even 12 hours during each 24 hour cycle And some studies in humans have also shown that it can be beneficial for However, the excitement about to be related to the foundational and weight loss and weight which is that regardless of fast or whether or not you or you eat one meal in the it really doesn't matter in that you ingest from whatever source, are going to be filtered through by way of exercise, basal metabolic rate, which is just the calories just being alive and and your heart beating, et cetera. And the reason why many people fasting to other forms of let's or nutritional framework is to not eat, then to And here I'm not talking I'm talking about the general population. So, I think that's one reason about intermittent fasting. Now, within the context on a circadian timescale, you generally find two people who prefer to either because they are or because they find it to just drink things like and push their feeding window or 3:00 P.M. and then they'll eat between, say 1:00 P.M. and 8:00 P.M. or 9:00 P.M.. It depends on the individual. Other groups of people find when they wake up in the morning, they don't feel well if And so they prefer to but then they limit their off their food intake or of any kind, somewhere around 5:00 P.M. or 6:00 P.M., et cetera. So, the duration of the feeding window has not been broken down of information that one would really want. At least not in human studies saying, well, a six hour feeding window or an eight hour feeding window is ideal. It really is going to and circumstances, for instance, some families really want to eat dinner together every night. So, do you want to be there watching everybody eat? Because you're fasting I don't know. That's an individual difference. What you can start to identify, however, is that people tend to fall The other people who prefer or people that prefer to, or managed to skip eating in the evening. And there has been no evidence thus far, that one is better or worse, at least in terms of weight loss or overall health parameters. Now, you can imagine that some people might eat breakfast and dinner. And indeed I have several many colleagues in fact who just choose to skip lunch, because they're busy during the day, they eat breakfast and dinner, fast associated with sleep. What do I mean by that? Well, if you went to sleep at 11:00 P.M. and you wake up at 6:00 A.M. by extending your fast until you get quite a long period Whereas when you don't eat you are getting a fasting period. That's probably anywhere but it's not linked to of not eating while you all people and I want to emphasize most, do not eat while they are asleep. But we are going to talk that does exist, where people I know it sounds pretty that eating disorder does exist. And it has a very interesting So, why are we talking about this? And in particular, why are an episode that includes a discussion about eating disorders? The reason is, nobody not the no individual, no matter how knowledgeable they are about food and can define the best plan for I'm going to repeat that. Nobody knows what truly healthy eating is. We only know the measurements blood lipid profiles, body mental performance, whether whether or not you're feeling relaxed, nobody knows how to define these. And these have strong and socio-societal influence. So, if you hang out with people day, that will seem normal. If you spend time with of intermittent fasting, intermittent fasting is Now we are going to talk that really fall into the category of clinically diagnosable for which there's actually and even the serious risk of death, we will get to that topic. But for the time being, I want to emphasize a new set of findings that I think many people And at least we'll want of their current nutritional whether or not you're And I want to cue up for the rest of the and disordered eating, which includes an understanding and what we call homeostatic processes, meaning regulation of things and body and reward mechanisms. So, I'm going to return but first I want to share that were just published in a Cell Press Journal, excellent journal. This was a study that was and it included a crossover The human population was women, but it relates to a previous out in men. I'm going to simplify this study. We will provide a link to the it in more detail. And if you're really I would encourage you to within that paper as well. What was the study? The study looked at giving And explored whether or not in the day or late in the day, had an impact on muscle hypertrophy, muscle growth and overall So, when we eat, the amino are broken down and synthesized into different types of tissues. They can be utilized for energy, burned up for moving about or it can be synthesize. Those amino acids can be The sorts of skeletal to move your limbs. This study explored how protein intake, which included what are called and amino acids, like leucine, which are important for Explored whether or not emphasizing or skewing the protein or late day was better in And they also looked at like grip strength. Now mice are nocturnal. So, before you say wait, how did they look during the day? And it's completely, it doesn't apply because it's in mice. Of course they knew that. And they looked during of their circadian cycle, And in humans, they looked most of one's protein early in the day, was better than if the protein intake and the sprint chain amino acids were placed later in the day. And yes, they had the mice They did that by emphasizing of the mouse. And that actually generates hypertrophy. It's a form of resistance So, they don't have them weight training. They weren't doing curls and things of that sort. They were moving their own body weight, but they skewed that by restricting a limb and that did indeed grow in response to that. And then in humans, there was an exploration of grip strength. And then with resistance out through a peripheral study. Basically the takeaway from and humans can utilize amino in the day, better than they can utilize in the day in particular and growth or maintenance of muscle, which for those of you in much muscle hypertrophy to grow your muscles. I've talked before in the and hypertrophy, that maintaining muscle, regardless of one's athletic prowess, regardless of one's age because loss of skeletal muscle is one of the major causes of injury. As we age. It's one of the major causes, believe it or not, of cognitive as we age. So, maintaining muscle is important. Building muscle might be but what they found was ingesting And these amino acids early in the day, led to more muscle hypertrophy of amino acids and proteins So, this translates to such that if you are interested you might, and I want to emphasize, might consider making sure protein intake early in the day. What sources of protein you use, is going to be highly individual. Some of you are meat eaters. Some of you don't eat red meat. Some of you eat chicken and fish and eggs. Some of you don't, some of you are vegans. It has been shown that the for the cell growth process, including muscle growth, to the so-called mTOR pathway, mammalian target of rapamycin. We can talk about that more if this means that if you're or increase the amount of ingesting a high protein to be beneficial for that. Does it mean that you in the afternoon and evening? No. I think a lot of people might've and I don't want that to happen. This is only pointing out the fact that ingesting sufficient including leucine, early in for maintenance and It does not say that you in the day. Now for you intermittent I, for instance, with somebody who for a very my first meal of the day would mostly protein and salad, 'Cause that's in alignment with my values. Then in the evening I would eat pasta, vegetables, et cetera. I might have some protein, some small piece of fish or but I didn't really emphasize that. On the basis of these results. I am experimenting with. I want to emphasize experimenting with, I haven't completely but I'm experimenting with and eating lunch. And then dinner might be but not so much protein Again, if you want to eat six meals a day, you want to eat round the clock. I'm not going to stop you. I'm not telling anybody what to do. As I mentioned earlier, nobody knows exactly how to But this study was really interesting, because it really did the proteins that are better than we can utilize later in the day. And of course there will be For instance, if you work out very hard with resistance training later in the day, resistance training is known So, it stands to reason after that training would be beneficial. However, in this study, it did not seem to matter when within the 24 hour schedule. The morning ingestion of amino acids seemed to be beneficial. How early? Between the hours of about 5:00 A.M. and 10:00 A.M. for humans. Now just a bit of mechanism So, why would it be that would lead to more synthesis of muscle than ingesting protein later in the day? And the reason it turns out is related to the circadian clock mechanism that is present in all cells, So, muscles have fibers. I think most people are aware of that, that your muscles are not A lot of these little Within those fibers, however, Those nuclei contained DNA. DNA is transcribed into RNA. RNA is translated into proteins. The DNA of your cells, including these muscle cells are under strong circadian regulation. Each one has a pattern of gene at different times this is an unescapable reality right from your hair to your retinal cells, These cells make a gene is a clock gene. And the expression of across the 24 hour cycle, and proteins that are downstream of this BMAL gene influence The circadian regulation out to be vitally important for this protein synthesis mechanism. How do we know that? Well, in this particular study, because they had a mouse that lacked BMAL, the gene was knocked out, They were able to explore feeding effect was present or absent in these mice that lack the gene BMAL. And indeed it was absent. In other words, the effect of increased protein was eliminated in the So, what this means is that assuming you're following of being asleep at night your muscle cells are primed and synthesize muscle, regardless of whether or the night before 8:00 P.M., or you don't weight train at all, or you weight train afterwards or before. I said five to 10:00 P.M. window for this increased All this means is that if you or enhancing muscle tissue volume, that you might want to protein and amino acids early in the day, you could train first. You could train after, That's entirely different discussion. What is quality protein, well quality protein is that includes most of the And in particular leucine. Now, there's a lot of debate as to whether or not you can get all from a purely plant based diet or whether or not you need to ingest animal-based foods or not. The term quality protein has no strict scientific definition. Some people define quality that has a high essential Now, what that means is, or steak or eggs for instance, will have many essential amino acids with a low caloric content or plant-based food that can also get you essential amino acids, but it requires more calories to access those essential amino acids. Now that's that has many And I for one, and perfectly that just want to ingest their high quality protein. I think that actually can be done. One has to be careful and about how to do that. So, this really isn't about animal based versus non-animal based foods. This is about getting quality from whatever foods are in values in your particular eating plan. So, that's a lot of information, but the key takeaways are has a clock gene. The clock genes vary such is greater early in the day such that in both mice and in humans, ingestion of quality proteins so incorporated into muscle. Than the proteins that are And of course there are the hard late in the day, if you're adjusting your hormone status through whatever mechanism et cetera, protein synthesis can also But for most people it's to this circadian BMAL Again, we will provide a link to the study and the other key takeaways Nobody can tell you what what the best feeding windows are. There's absolutely no you talk to 10 nutritionists or individuals about and you are going to get And that's one of the that the internet in are so filled with contradictory opinions, but the calories in versus is that more or less holy about nutrition, eating and weight. And as we transition about eating disorders, I'd like you to keep this in of eating disorders, it doesn't matter what psychological or early trauma based effects If the person isn't adjusting in a way that is going to of that disorder, which Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Belcampo, Belcampo is a regenerative that raises organic grass fed and finished certified humane meats. I don't eat a lot of meat, but That means a small piece of and usually a salad. I usually do that for And then in the evening or less vegetarian diet. I tend to eat pastas and Well I don't eat a lot of meat. It's important that the meat quality and that I am certain and treated humanely up Belcampo's animals, graze on open pastures and seasonal grasses, their in meat that's higher in It also results in healthy happy cows. Often talk about how important They've been shown to be for the microbiome, for restricting inflammation in the brain and elsewhere in the body. Belcampo's meats are known And given that the meat is that combines all the and the animal wellbeing for any meat that I ingest. If you'd like to try Belcampo, 20% off by going to belcampo.com/huberman and using the code huberman@checkout, that's belcampo.com/huberman for 20% off. Your first order. Today's podcast is also Headspace is a meditation app. That's backed by 25 published studies and has over 600,000 five-star reviews. I've been meditating for a very long time. Although I admit I meditate on and off, meaning I'll go a few weeks or And then I tend to stop. A few years ago, I got into because I started using The thing I really like is it has meditations So, sometimes I'll just or five minutes, or ideally I'm doing two but I confess I don't always manage that, but they have a ton of on the Headspace app that allow you to tailor your meditation practice to your particular schedule. And there are now a plethora of a regular meditation practice. If you want to try Headspace, you can go to headspace.com/special offer. And if you do that, you'll get a free one month library of meditations. You get them all. That's the best deal offer So, again, if you're interested, go to headspace.com/specialoffer. Today's episode is also brought Athletic Greens is a vitamin and it's one that I've The reason I started drinking I still take Athletic Greens cover all of my nutritional and minerals and probiotics. And we now know that a is supported by probiotics. And for me, Athletic Greens is the best I also ingest some fermented foods, but by ingesting Athletic Greens, I'm certain to get all the things I need. And also, I just feel I genuinely feel like I have more energy and I just feel better. And I happen to really I mix mine with some water And in doing that, I'm certain basis covered and the probiotics support a healthy gut microbiome, which is important for mood, regulating inflammation and so on. If you want to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman. And if you do that, you They'll give you five free travel packs. In addition to your Athletic Greens order, those travel packs make it really easy to mix up Athletic Greens in the car, on the plane, et cetera. And they will give you a year supply of vitamin D3, K2, vitamin D3 and K2 have for blood lipid profiles for of other metabolic and neural processes. So, go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to get the Athletic Greens, the five free travel of D3 and K2. So, let's talk about eating disorders. And as we do that, I that nobody can really define with a single protocol. However, there is some general agreement about what unhealthy and There are clear criteria and psychological communities bulimia, binge eating disorder, all of which we will talk about, but as we have that discussion, I want to emphasize that self-diagnosis can be both a terrific, but We talked about this a about depression, there's always about the symptomology It doesn't really matter to ask the question. Well, do I have that? Does so-and-so that I know have that, ah, I see this sort of behavior In that individual, it's and or ourselves as either having or not having a particular disorder. However, diagnoses really need who are trained in that particular field, and that have deep the symptomology, including some of the more subtle symptomology So, if any of the symptoms by way of you thinking that you have this particular you know, has this disorder, but I would take that information to a qualified healthcare or rule out any of these I say that not to protect us, but to protect you, because And I do believe that can be very valuable and improving our thoughts and But one doesn't want to, or I should say, one, shouldn't start to of information without running of a qualified professional. So, what is an eating disorder? Well, we have to take a step back, and confess to the fact that every family, and every individual has a different relationship to food, eating disorders, however, that allow us to define them and to think about different modes of treatment. As it relates to the particular the psychological and biological symptoms of those disorders. Now that's a mouthful, no pun intended. What are the major eating disorders? Anorexia nervosa, most commonly is perhaps the most prevalent of all eating disorders. In fact, anorexia is the most of all, even more than depression. The probability of death is very high, and sadly the prevalence of anorexia is very high. So, what is anorexia Anorexia, if you look to a qualified professional, to eat enough, to You can see all sorts of very who's been anorexic for a general loss of muscle mass fewer calories than they burn. Muscle is very metabolically active. They tend to lose a lot of muscle mass. They will have a low heart rate. This is the body and brain's They will have low blood pressure. They'll sometimes have They will have sometimes something called lanugo, which is essentially the body's attempt to insulate the body because When you're that thin. Loss of bone density, osteoporosis, loss of and all sorts of disrupted So, there are just tons of anorexia that really into a very risky state, from anorexia gone Now, one of the is that it stems from an or that because of all and in advertising of or muscular people that at themselves and comparing and thinking that they don't match up and developing anorexia, that turns out to not be the case. If you look at the prevalence in the last 10 years or 20 years, and you compare that to when which was in the 1600s, what you find is that rates So, this idea that the images with are causing anorexia Now, that is not to say that the images that we in particular young with are healthy for the But classically define anorexia the same prevalence for the last 100, 200, 300 and 400 years, which is incredible and really that there's a strong to what we call anorexia nervosa. Anorexia nervosa is extremely common. It's anywhere from one to 2% of women. And the typical onset is in but it can show up later in life as well. In fact, the identification to be in the early '20s. But if you look back at the there were typically signs into their early teens. Or maybe even before that. Now, of course, men can but anorexia nervosa does seem in women and young girls, than it does in men and young boys. So, while there does seem to be more of a prevalence of anorexia these days, that's probably and detection than it is to some sort of societal shift related Later, we will talk about body dysmorphia and some of the images and social media and how those of eating disorders. But when you look at anorexia nervosa, this failure to maintain weight, even to healthy levels that are very dangerous or even deadly, that has existed for a very long time, and seems to be somewhat of individuals that suffer from it. Now, when I say hard wired, that doesn't mean that it and indeed it can. Bulimia which is defined as Let me explain what that is. Binge eating is consuming in a short period of time. Overeating can be ingesting but over an extended period of time, both can exist of course, but It's more common in young girls and in women that it is but it is present in both sexes. Bulimia and rates of That's sort of an interesting finding. It's not quite clear in its same form for a long period of time or within other new forms that we're going to drill into bulimia and what it actually is But one thing I want to be clear about, just as the perfectionist with anorexia, and it turns It can be, but it's not always There was the idea that with early trauma in childhood, And while that can be the case, there's no direct Now, obviously psychological can have a profound impact on the way that the brain wires up and the way that people approach food But the sort of classic are perfectionists, they It's all about control and autonomy. And bulimics are kind of out against some early sexual trauma, those stereotypes of the of anorexics and When you look at the data, many, many meta analysis have been done. It just simply is not the case. And in both instances, there are clear biological underpinnings, to what's driving the So, we're going to talk about and overeating and And by doing that, we will start to identify that serve as entry of both anorexia and bulimia. And as some of you are probably aware, anorexia and bulimia can be comorbid, they can exist with one another. There are anorexics who in order to maintain that There are bulimics who fit the psychological And so there's a lot of overlap between those two categories. Now let's talk about the the categorization has led to now a bunch of other eating disorders as defined by the psychiatric community. One of the classic symptoms of anorexia is a loss of menstrual And the reason for that is when the body fat stores, to inform that the body is undernourished, or they turn off the there are enough body fat cells out here to support healthy metabolism. And therefore let's shut down ovulation, literally signal sent to the brain and the brain, the hypothalamus and pituitary to the ovaries, or they will turn off the to deploy eggs, to maturation of eggs in So, there are instances in or have bulimia, but are still maintaining or at least menstrual cycles. And that has led to a whole of eating disorders, like where there tends to but not the purging or in which people are under feeding, but they are not losing their periods. And so these have a number of Some of them include things like, EDNOS, EDNOS is eating disorder, So, that's a sub categorization or OSFEDs. So, OSFEDs is or specified So, right now, if you were to look to the psychiatric and what you would find is that of eating disorders today. We're mainly going to talk about anorexia, bulimia, binge eating You can even find eating where people actually ingest or metal because they for those things. I certainly do not recommend sampling any of those non food items. As foods, is incredibly dangerous. People often poisoned themselves. They often can cause structural blockages some people have died from But nonetheless, there and biology that when disrupted can lead to very bizarre types of eating behavior, sometimes pica is caused by And so today we're going to focus on the most prevalent eating disorders, but we are going to build by looking at what healthy and satiety and hunger looks like. Because one, I realized that not everyone out there has an eating disorder. And two, I want people to between how they think, about what they eat and how the body and the are driving some of these Because I do think that understanding of what healthy and to increase compassion and hopefully even increased improvement in for those that are suffering from them. So, what is hunger and what is satiety? Satiety, of course being sated or feeling like we've had enough food. I want to remind people by which the brain and body communicate. This is vitally important, but for any discussion, about how we feel, the body is of information to the but in particular around of information are mechanical information, and chemical information. What do I mean by mechanical information? Well, if you take a deep breath, oh, and you hold your breath, what you'll find is that a lot longer than if and you hold your breath with lungs empty. And the reason is not because you have enough oxygen and therefore you can hold your breath. It's because when your lungs are full, a particular class of send information to the brain and say, there's pressure in the lungs. And that means that there's And so the trigger to breathe when your lungs are empty. Even if you have plenty those baroreceptors send a which is there's no oxygen in And so the impulse to Likewise, when your stomach is full, it sends signals to your on this mechanical fullness, has nothing to do with And therefore don't be as hungry. Don't motivate to find or ingest food. Whereas when our gut is empty, even if we have plenty of nutrients or plenty of body fat stores, we tend to focus on food a bit more. So, volume and mechanical on how we think. And what consider doing or not doing, likewise chemical effects. When we ingest food, our so-called blood sugar or That information is signaled to the brain via neuronal pathways And in particular, there that signal to areas of our in satiety in our sense of having enough that there's food in our system. So, that's chemical information. So, how our hunger and by way of mechanical You have, I have, we all have neurons in our and neurons that trigger We have an accelerator on And I covered all of this in on feeding and metabolism and hunger. So, if you want a lot more but right now, I'm just going to give you the top contour of how all that works. Your hypothalamus is an which tells you it's in the front, but it's at the base of your above the roof of your mouth. The hypothalamus contains of neurons, including neurons and desire, regulate your body temperature and control appetite and There are two types of neurons of your hypothalamus There are the so-called Pro-opiomelanocortin neurons of a break on appetite, by way of another hormone called melanocytes stimulating hormone. And not so incidentally a lot of sunlight and you're that system is ramped up. This is why appetite is than it is in the winter months. This is true in animals. And this is true in humans. And you have a class of neurons The AgRP neurons are the and they create a sort of can be positive anxiety, or What do I mean by that? Well, if you ever seen kids they're absolutely excited. You see people getting raised, They're excited to eat. Sometimes that's due to social factors, but they have an increase of autonomic arousal. And depending on the context, they can feel excited or anxious, but it is a ramping up of energy. These AgRP neurons are what caused that, in fact so much so that if you eliminate or kill these neurons, which has been done in experimental mouse but also there are or neurotoxic effects And what you find is that They essentially become anorexic, meaning they don't want to ingest food. They have no appetite for food whatsoever. Now that's not exactly what anorexia is, but these AgRP neurons on wanting to eat. Whereas if you stimulate or in humans that have these AgRP neurons, They will eat to the point of bursting, both animals and humans of these AgRP neurons are anxious. They want to eat, and they will ingest food to those mechanical and And I know it sounds They will eat until the Now, there are signals to inform the brain about presence of different levels of nutrients. And that generally comes First of all, is body fat. The more body fat we have, the more we secrete a hormone leptin from body fat, leptin goes to the brain This is a body to brain signaling I've had enough, not incidentally, leptin in people that have bulimia and obesity and certain forms of So, that system has disrupted or there's enough body fat to eat more right here, of the body fat, trying to that dialogue is mixed up or messed up. In some cases it's absent entirely. So, the body fat is signaling to the brain about how much reserve you have. It's sort of like a 'cause that's what body fat is. You've got lipids in there that can be metabolized. If you're interested in that process, both how to increase it. And just generally how it works. You can see the episode on The body fat is doing something that relates to anorexia, when they're sufficient levels of body fat and leptin circulating in the blood. And that leptin signal gets to the brain, the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland register that signal. And in a completely subconscious way, trigger the deployment of eggs of sperm in males. So, when body fat stores are very low, the reason why periods shut is reduced or even shut off leptin getting to the And they shut off the things like luteinizing hormone, all these hormones. So, you don't have to remember the names of if you don't want to or to the testes and to ovulate or to produce more sperm. So, the reason why anorexic while they stopped cycling, is because there isn't sufficient Now there have been attempts because leptin has been has been synthesized. And so you can inject leptin into people. There are studies where they've done that, when that happens, it the anorexia, does not cause people to start eating again. And that actually makes sense of shutting off the hunger signals saying, it's the body fats way of saying, hey, there's a lot of body fat here, or there is sufficient body fat. There doesn't even have in some cases been shown cycling in some anorexics, okay? So, body fat is signaling to the brain. The gut is signaling to the brain. There are neurons in your gut to meaning they fire electrical signals. When there are sufficient from fats you ingest, amino acids coming from proteins you ingest and sugars coming from carbohydrates and sugars. Things like fructose, glucose, et cetera. Those signals are being sent up to the brain. And therefore your body of directing you toward So, you've got two categories of neurons. One that acts as an accelerator, eat, eat, and get you excited to eat. And then you have a category of neurons. The POMC neurons that They're acting like a break, the brain all the time about the status of the body and whether or So, you might ask why is it and have a lot of body fat, why they would continue to eat a lot, well past a certain when you start getting into these so-called metabolic disorders, where blood glucose leptin signaling is disrupted of changes on both the of things, such that they're hungry, despite the fact that the body has plenty of energy on reserve. Okay, that I think is of hunger and satiety are kind And the important thing again, to remember is that they're that come from fullness that come in the presence or the absence of glucose in the blood. When you haven't eaten for a long time, glucagon levels go up, for instance, GLP1 levels go up and those will drive you to seek out food and want food. And then there are the signals and from neurons in the gut. So, there's a lot of convergence, I don't offer you all those I offer you those pathways to which something as simple to not eat is complicated. We've perhaps heard, or I've certainly heard it takes about 20 minutes so you should eat slowly that full until about 20 minutes. That's actually not true. I don't know where that got started, but we should probably and eat more slowly, be more mindful of what So, in anticipation of this episode, I consulted extensively with a colleague of mine at Stanford, who sadly for us is going off So, our losses University His name is Dr. Casey Halpern. He's a MD, Medical and a PhD who studies and other types of eating in the brain. And he's developed some really pioneering treatments for them. We'll talk more about his in the episode, but we of why a body that has would desire to eat more at all. And this is not just the case for bulimia, but why You know, this is primitive biology that evolved over many tens. If not hundreds of thousands you see it in humans, very similar types of How is it that human of fat on reserve and plenty of glycogen in their liver, et cetera. In other words, plenty of why they would eat at all. It seems like that just shouldn't happen. And he had a very important, and I think clear and intuitive way of framing up all this stuff around eating and motivated behaviors not just in eating Basically what he said was, it makes sense that we should as much as we can, and as fast as we can. Well, that sounds crazy. I've was told to eat not and to eat slowly and chew my food. But as Dr. Halpern pointed out, there are circuits in the often eating fast and into you as possible. Because from a purely food was scarce, and whether or not it was from And it's always been competitive, up in families with a lot of siblings. This may resonate with you. I just one sibling, we were competitive about certain things, but typically not competitive about food, but I had friends that It was really interesting to and how it was taken in those households. It was like food would hit an absolute war for and how much and who got of cake, et cetera, turned out to be a frequent and that these birthday parties, whereas the only children to having more food presented to compete with other Every animal, including that we were born with that pays attention to how much food is available, and how much we are likely And without going down the rabbit hole of arcuate nucleus you have a hypothalamic area It's a fascinating area. It's actually the area that houses, these PMOC neurons and that regulate hunger and satiety. And these neurons in the arcuate nucleus When we see food and think about food, they drive hunger, and they drive hunger in a way that's responsive what it smells like, but also our prior history of And it takes into account social context, whether or not we are going to ourselves or whether or not that we are going to have to compete with. So, there are a lot of signals in your brain are paying attention to. So, Dr. Halpern pointed have an accelerator that and anxiety and sort of constricts your field of Anytime you interact a primitive reflex to ingest as quickly as you can, and then move on from there, and presumably to do the same elsewhere. So, that changed the way that and eating disorders. In fact, we could think about as an unmasking of that mechanism without the so-called top-down control, without the mechanisms that we And indeed bulimia and are closely associated with impulsivity and with impulsive something that we also will discuss more. What's the pathway? How does this work? What is Dr. Halpern and his to try and treat things Well, you can frame all of behavior, good decision making In a pretty simple box diagram model. And I realized that many of not watching this. There is no diagram to look at. I'll just explain it so it in your mind. We have knowledge of what we We should eat that. We shouldn't eat that. We should wait for dinner. We shouldn't wait for dinner. And then we have what we Now this is true for all behaviors, we should say something or but we don't, we shouldn't say That's the knowledge that I should do my homework. I should go for a run. I shouldn't do this right now. I shouldn't be on social media, all those kinds of shoulds and shouldn'ts that are circulating your head. That's one box. Then there's what you actually do. The behavior, whether or not you turn off your phone and to sleep or whether or or you stay up for another In between those two boxes And those intervening forces Those intervening forces called by some processes, same thing, homeostatic processes, of different systems in awake or asleep, dopamine and serotonin and the desire So, homeostatic processes And as we now move into and bulimia specifically, what you'll see is that are not a breaking of the or shouldn't do. It's a disruption of these such that decision-making And in many cases is not available to the anorexic or bulimic. Now, I don't want to be abstract here. What I'm saying is that the to the point where they sadly do die. They can know perfectly well to bad outcomes and possibly even death. And yet they are not they get particular clinical help, because the homeostatic processes, and brain that say, you need food. Those aren't registering in the same way that they are for other individuals. and for the bulimic or from binge eating disorder. They don't necessarily They simply cannot help it. It's like a reflex for them, because the homeostatic processes and the reward processes are such that they can't intervene between the should do X, Y, or Z, or shouldn't do X, Y, or Z. And what their actual behavior is. Now, this isn't just a biological for what could have been What this is, is a roadmap of where interventions can really make a difference. So, as we talk about different or behavioral interventions I'd like you to think about whether or not those or tapping into this box of the thinking, the sort of pattern of whether or not it's the behavior, the actual ingestion or or whether or not it's tapping the balance of energy systems but not too much, or it's And just as a little teaser what you'll find based on the done very carefully and very What you'll find is the of switch that's been flipped, such that their decision-making is actually pretty darn good. It might even be better of evaluating food, nutritional content, but their habits are disrupted. So, they're not even that they're making terrible. And in some cases, very and turns out that habits. And the way that we build and is one of the most effective So, now let's talk about anorexia, this failure to consume enough energy, such that the individuals and if not death, then lack of bone density, et cetera. As I mentioned earlier, anorexia and things that and are anorexia have as the 1600s. And maybe even earlier, there are some records from the saints, from the 1400s of people Another common myth is that of thing that you see in rich societies. These are spoiled that they decide they're on how slim they are, how they look in bathing A careful analysis through that you find anorexia even in cultures and societies where food is scarce. So, that really speaks Now it's hard to unveil in because a lot of people but there are individuals that and seem to have some sort of them, where makes them feel despite the fact that their body is severely depleted of nutrients. So, that's very interesting to some disruption in Now, I want to make sure that I'm not in favor of people, in particular young children, adolescents, and teenagers being bombarded with unrealistic imagery about bodies. But the idea that that's the cause of, or is amplifying anorexia, to support that, anorexia requires that there be an endocrine, meaning a hormonal disruption, menstrual abnormalities, or low testosterone in the classification for anorexia. But as I mentioned earlier, there are now nuanced and new that even for individuals or that maintain a sperm can still be considered a clinically diagnosable disorder. Now, typically anorexia right around puberty. Let's take a look at what puberty is. Puberty at a very broad and dramatic developmental step. Anyone goes through in their lifespan. The body changes, the change, one's own self And most of those changes are within the hypothalamus. So, neurons that are of the so-called sex steroid hormones, things like testosterone, estrogen, and related Those are all changing Anorexia tends to show up of individuals who on the aversive, now the purely of this is that they are They want control. Puberty is also a time in are in a tug of war over control. You were once a small child sent to your room. Now you're a child that I don't want to, or I refuse to. And that happens a lot as I'm sure you're familiar with. Adolescence and puberty is also when girls start or boys develop deeper voice, they start producing sperm, et cetera. So, there are a lot of bodily changes that also drive perceptual that drive bodily changes. And it is a dramatic or boy that doesn't nourish During that period, there are a number of I'll list out some of them, these are just a subset of That's the lack of sperm production or healthy egg production. There is amenorrhea, which is the lack of So, a failure to have a menstrual cycle. Reduced insulin secretion, that's released in order into various tissues That's down because energy One of the symptoms that's and that has actually for sake of the cholesterol who ingest very little high levels of cholesterol, including LDL, low density, lipoprotein cholesterol. You say, well, how could that possibly be? We were all told and continue to be told from many sources that is what drives high levels Cholesterol is manufactured who consume very little food. They often have cosmically which is one of the kind of wrinkles in the so-called dietary that all of our cholesterol is due to what we eat. But the explanation for it where there's not sufficient cholesterol to synthesize the sex steroid hormones, things like testosterone and estrogen, which are required in those are made from the liver will start will often overshoot the So, the blood lipid profiles and anorexics are often very unhealthy despite the fact that they're eating very little food. In addition, they tend of things like vasopressin, which are hormones that and salt and blood volume. They tend to have low blood pressure. They can pass out. I mentioned some of the In other words, there are a huge number of terrible things happening. Thyroid levels are down. Heart rates are down, if picture here is indeed a bleak picture. So, we have to ask for the anorexic, right? Let's say it's a failure to stimulate appetite and feeding. Let's say it's too much Let's say it's because of was used for reward in I'm making this up, but you can imagine a where let's just say the mother is very vocal about her avoidance of food. We've seen this before, right? You've probably seen and prepare food, but then sits down and doesn't seem to eat. And they always seem to in I ate while I cooked, I These people that you we all know people like Possibly, we don't know. A child observes that kind of behavior. Maybe that individual is beautiful they look or how what incredible meals they produce. And you could imagine a purely that could lead a child to be anorexic. That doesn't seem to be the case, at least not in terms of driving classic, anorexia, a really extreme However, there is a strong So, you could imagine a mild that is supported or so that the person feels they're getting, that they for whatever reason, for aesthetic reasons or for to appeal to them. And the child has a genetic We never think about genes in genes, bias, probabilities So, you can have a gene for but it's not deterministic, that there are genes that or your skin color or So, there's a genetic And that genetic predisposition is rewarded enough times that behavior can start to ratchet in to our neural circuitry, because behavior drives neural changes, so called neuroplasticity. And you could imagine that a full-blown case of anorexia. And this is why I raised at the knows how to define healthy eating. And so therefore we have to of unhealthy behaviors, but what do we point people to in terms of what healthy replacement So, rather than just look they're not eating enough. And there's this huge that they're doing to their We need to rescue them from themselves. Let's look under the hood. Let's look at, what's known and the sorts of perceptions and behaviors of the neural circuitry is driving, in order to understand what at the level of cause ,not just symptoms, it's clear what they're of symptoms, symptoms are how we diagnose. I listed off a number of those things, but let's look under the where one could intervene in theory, in order to try and rescue the anorexic or help the anorexic rescue themselves. Because it turns out that of the answers of how to do At least to me was very surprising. I would be remiss if I didn't which is, is there a chemical defect? Meaning is there some chemical systems in the brain and therefore, can we Or can we reduce some chemical and essentially eliminate anorexia? And the answer is not here's why, there are a in the brain and body, but there are a category of important that if you've even if you haven't are and again and again, and that is the category and body called the neuromodulators, neuromodulators are different in the sense that or change the activity of you can think of them as between particular sets of that make those connections in the brain, more likely to be active They make them louder so to speak, there are many neuromodulators, but the ones that are important for sake of today's discussion dopamine, acetylcholine, or epinephrin and serotonin. Let's focus on serotonin. Serotonin is a neuromodulator the activity of certain neural circuits, including within the hypothalamus, but also within the body that of having enough, enough enough social connection, enough of any motivated goal or behavior that one would want more of, serotonin tends to make Now, there are many categories the serotonergic circuitry, of, or the efficiency of Things like Prozac, Zoloft, Those drugs have been used Although not much to treat That should make sense, serotonin, if their general it will be to lower anxiety. That sounds like a great thing. A lot of anorexics are We'll talk about why, lowering would lead to ingestion of more food, but that's not often what by way of some drug regimen will tend to make one less hungry, of serotonin in the blood and brain, there isn't the desire that will raise serotonin on their own. Now, some anorexics do well or benefit from these serotonergic drugs, these drugs that increase the that leads to satiety. But if you think about an anorexic it's to get them to have more hunger, more appetite. So, now I want to focus on some around the habits and because those turned out to be ideal places for intervention. The work I'm about to describe was done by Dr. Joanna Steinglass and colleagues at Columbia University in New York. And there are other groups as well. Of course, they're but they did what I think experiments and some of potential treatments for anorexics. That seemed to have a quite high degree of effectiveness when they First of all, there's a because in anorexia, what you're essentially of a behavior. It's very hard to study as opposed to a behavior. So, they did some giving them a gallery of and allowing those anorexia patients to arrange those foods, according to preference about food, nutrient content They essentially asked these and in doing so, they were able to identify to anorexics at the level What they found is the anorexics, rather than being anxious and that anxiety driving What they found is that a hyper awareness of the almost to the point of being Now they don't necessarily They're not looking at an that's X number of grams of fat rather, or looking at an apple and They start to do this Now it's a well-known symptom of anorexia, especially young anorexics of an obsession with macronutrient ratios, meaning fat protein and carbohydrate ratios. They know caloric numbers, but then they sort of into a memory system in their interactions with in a way that they are actively foods, calorie rich foods, and defaulting towards If they have to eat. Now, this might seem like on the face of it, you think, okay, they don't like to eat when they do eat. They eat low calorie, low fat foods, duh, but it's the way in which they that they learn this it off to a reflexive habit. And that's very important is that we need to look at what brain areas, what chemicals drive And we also need to look that drive habit formation because for any of you that have habits. And that means all of you, the hallmark feature of a You have a mosquito bite on You didn't necessarily even think, oh, I'm going to scratch that. In fact, just to take a little and talk about habits in general, there's a beautiful of Caltech University, looking at the parking in the morning, without and the trajectories that they in the morning. So, they put cameras up is the kind of thing that I think at Caltech, if you call someone a nerdy So, my apologies to the I think there's one or two of you at Caltech, you're welcome. They videotaped the and students and staff. And what they found, is that from their car that are First of all, they tend to If they can, they tend Of course, 'cause they're or passenger side in the same place. They turn and pivot their the same rate every day. They close the door, they've put their bag on their shoulder or across their chest, or however it is that or whatever it is. And they follow trajectories onto campus that are so stereotyped. That you'd wonder if you just trace line, after line after line. What you'd find is that every and you do this too. You don't realize it because in this kind of behavior, it's but your behaviors are so where if you were to see them in kind of diagrammatic and the trajectories that you the lifting of your mug and how frequently you drink each hour, you would be amazed and by how much of a robot we all are. Now that robotic aspect of because it's what allows us and do other things, and But the work of Dr. Steinglass that in the case of the anorexic, those habits are exactly to go awry. And that drive this very that sadly often leads to death or certainly bad medical outcomes. And it turns out that the with habit formation and execution are the best point of intervention. So, what Dr. Steinglass is they took anorexics and they and they put them in an FMRI scanner, which are these brain scanners which brain areas are active, And because when you're you actually, you know, I've actually been in one of these things. You're biting down on a of the time and most all of So, you're looking at Sometimes you can press and so forth, but you can't What they found was that the drive to pursue a to perform a particular task, which is a lot of what that was controlled by a brain area called the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Let me simplify a little bit of this, but I'm going to simplify it because it's the Huberman Lab Podcast. And I believe in mechanism, mechanism is the way that and that you can then be of things, but you need the mechanism. So, you have reflexes and that include what are called duration path and outcome type processes, a duration path, outcome type process, we can shorten with DPO. DPO is for all types of So, for instance, if you want to get a you want to learn something, You want to go to the grocery and then head home. You're going to think duration. How long do I have, okay, do I have 45 minutes to get to the store? How long does it take to Which way am I going to drive there? Which way am I going to navigate outcome, was able to get and get home in time, okay? DPO, duration path outcome. It's a very conscious process. You tend to take into account to what's preventing what you want to do and what's helping you or assisting you. So, of course, as you get to the checkout you're going to select the So, that's all DPO stuff. It requires decision-making you use these DPO type to pick up groceries and pick and decide which trajectory to take home. And you use them for navigating in life, trying to get a or get through a particularly So, duration path outcome, and that entire process This prefrontal cortex, the prefrontal cortex is what allows you to take information from memory, combine it with information in the present context, and your speech, et cetera, And if all that sounds and it's very metabolically demanding, decision-making is It takes effort, okay? Reflexes on the other hand, don't involve the prefrontal habits and reflexes. Like once you know how to you don't have to think right foot, left foot. You just do it. That doesn't rely on prefrontal cortex. It's subconscious as but basically you don't have that are involved in duration path and outcome type analysis. Okay, so, in this particular study, they examined brain activity in anorexics who are selecting different foods. And as I mentioned earlier, they have a hyper acuity or more or less calories than other foods and what the fat content in particular, et cetera, they're doing all this while in a scanner. And then they look at are active after that task is done. And what they found what they found was that the cortex not surprisingly is and the evaluation of this food, which foods are going to be which foods are going to that anorexics framework and what's not okay to eat and how much. However, there are areas of the that decision-making process. And those are the brain the habit of avoiding particular foods and approaching other foods. And in that case, it wasn't the dorsolateral It was an area of the brain called the dorsal lateral striatum. Now the striatum is a It's involved in a lot It includes areas like And I just want to mention, as you do not need to remember the names of these different structures. They're just there, if you are interested but basically you have a have a brain area that's and decision-making around food. And then another brain in the reflexive consumption and the reflexive If you remember way back at I feel like that was a long time ago now. When we talked about how you in the brain, but there are always homeostatic and reward systems influencing Well, in the brain of the anorexic, it turns out that the reward to the execution of habits for body weight, but at least from a purely the reward is now given this is given for avoiding particular these very low calorie, low fat foods. So, there really does seem in the anorexic brain that They feel good when and they approach others. So, it's not a deprivation based model where they are flagellating or actively avoiding food in which is interesting because a support that idea. Rather, once this transitions they are actually getting They feel good, presumably of a different neuromodulator by approaching foods that are And so their whole brain circuitry is skewed toward avoiding And they actually are rewarded They feel better than if they were eating in a healthy weight supporting way. Now the dorsolateral that we should think about It's part of a set of in what are called go no-go tasks. And I don't want to go into this in a lot of detail right now, because it would take us too far down the rabbit hole of neurocircuitry. But basically in terms of behaviors, we both have DPO type behaviors. So, decision-making, And we have habits that And then we just start to things like yawning when we're tired, things like taking a particular route through the parking lot, right? We learned that the first time and walk into a building. But after that, we tend to follow the exact same trajectory It's just like, we just Well, the go no-go of our behavior, where we both have to And we have to select And the anorexic brain of one set of behaviors, ingestion of high calorie or even hyper-focus and low calorie foods. So, this homeostatic process that we learn about from like high school onward, that, oh, everything in to keep everything in balance. You stay awake for a You want to sleep, you Then you want to eat to You eat too much. Then you want to eat less. Those systems are disrupted. And so what's so beautiful about this work from the Columbia group, is the place to intervene This stuff has already passed it's passed through It's clearly not being overrun of the body. There's very little body fat. There's no leptin, whatever neurons in the brain for leptin, periods of and testosterone is lowered. Bone density is down. Clearly, this is overriding all all the signals that Those don't matter in the In the brain of the anorexic and they're being rewarded for it. So, when you come along and say, look, you should really eat this you'll feel better. That's how she aversive to them. So, since it appears to be a habit, a reflex that's perpetuating As we say, in science, it's perpetuating anorexia and telling them about that's happening in their body won't work, taking them away from all the images of thin people online, et cetera. That's not going to work. What's going to work. What's going to work is intervening That's related to the habit itself. And it turns out that So, how do you break a habit? How do you rewire the brain circuitry that's literally causing a reflex? And in this case causing a reflex that is killing the individual, or at least leading to The way that you do that is where you teach the individual, what is leading up to the habit? This is a little bit similar who suffers from addiction starts to put in different constraint type behaviors, constraint type behaviors, are the sorts of things will call a hotel ahead I want the mini bar taken out of the room. I don't want a television constraint type behaviors. Those are really ways of keeping oneself from the temptation. But with these habits, they work at such a subconscious level. That what seems to work best the individual about their internal state and how to register their internal state. What we call interoception this ability to perceive your internal state, so that they can start to learn, to associate the interactions with the sorts of cues that are quickening of heart rate, hyper acuity of focus that Once they start to be able are happening, then they So, let's talk about what into a habit, because those turn out to for changing and eliminating to a more healthy behaviors. And I should highlight that habits for sake of the anorexic. These are also the same types want to incorporate in of any kind. There are two main features of thinking that go into the sorts of The first is something called Weak central coherence is to see the forest through the trees. It's a hyper acuity and focus on details within a given environment. And there's actually an that involves something akin of puzzle, where an image is put up. The one that I saw was one in which there is a big Actually, they're all brown coffee beans. And your job is to identify of coffee beans, there's a face. And indeed there's a It looks a little bit like a coffee bean, but once you see it, not a coffee bean. And it becomes very hard to Anorexics, are very good They find it much faster which is really interesting, right? They somehow are able and find those details and Now eventually, most, if not but once you do what you will is that you can't unfine So, what essentially to see the whole picture, because there's some that you're obsessed by. So, this has kind of elements of obsessive compulsive disorder, but it's not really obsessive So, we call that weak central coherence. It's a hyper acuity on You miss the big picture. The other is a challenge in set shifting that once you identify something that's of particular interest of reward, for the anorexic that would be identifying the the one food on the table that hopefully noticing that they're and not touching any of the other food. If you ever had a meal with an anorexic. You might be familiar with this. It's kind of uncomfortable to be around. Actually they go through a to kind of hide food too. They'll sometimes even chew food, hold it in their mouth and and discard it things, very elaborate, very troubling types of and to be around. But you'll notice that they push food around their plate a lot. They become masterful actually at trying to keep people's awareness which is to hone in on these And they can't seem to set shift. They can't just relax and enjoy for them is essentially or find the face in the They're constantly monitoring them and trying to navigate this. What would otherwise be a for most people they're trying to navigate through this because remember for them, the reward is in the and the acquiring of only the foods that their brain rewards them for, because those are the foods and are now habit. What's amazing. And frankly also important that once you teach anorexics, that they're doing this, Now they need support, right? And another form of therapy for anorexics that ideally is combined with this habit rewiring, Family-based models are in various therapy settings, therapy based models where the entire family is made aware of the individual's challenges with a particular eating And in understanding some of around it, they stopped They start to support that towards their own habits They give them some autonomy. They realize that none of but they're taught about and the ability to change one's brain in response to experience. And so there's a whole Now, for people that live alone, this isn't available to them. This isn't the kind of with your coworkers. You might involve a but it's not the sort of thing in a family context can All of these things of cognitive behavioral therapy. And I should mention that are often done in conjunction I think that there's this idea or when often it's both. So, cognitive behavioral are recognition and rewiring approach, which is starting to become And I think the date on that especially when it in adolescence, that there are the relapse rate of It's about 50% of individuals often triggered by a But the combination of that includes this family model, or at least habit reformulation seems to be fairly effective. And at present might be the Now there are additional and that takes us into the realm of chemical treatments for anorexia. And I just want to mention meaning legal clinical trials being done at Johns Hopkins School of and others, exploring how drugs like MDMA, which increases dopamine and or siliciden so-called magic mushrooms, which increases serotonin to very high levels within the confines of a professionally supported can help people rewire their brain, such that they can get and various forms of trauma. And now eating disorders in the context of MDMA and I do want to emphasize that that those compounds are not yet legal. And in many cases, most I do not think that without a properly trained medical doctor, that the clinical trials are one explores those because lately I get a lot of People telling me that they've and relief from various things, but depression, et cetera. However, I get an equal number that they worked with This would be outside the to, and they are now experiencing They're getting genuine They are havering ticks that they have chronic insomnia. So, I'm not passing judgment or the people that are I just want to see the clinical data. And I do believe that we should trials are done before people And that's because they They can open plasticity, but whether or not they work quote unquote for different types of eating disorders or depression and trauma, the but that the clinical And I know a number of people and into other countries more regularly and there too. I've gotten reports back of people doing so-called ibogaine treatments. Some of you who are familiar will immediately be asking, Does it work? Does it work? Well, the clinical trials in I've heard evidence direct. I've heard directly from from the sorts of things, for But I've also heard of people seizure disorders from for the treatment of eating disorders. So, again, I'm not passing judgment. I would just like to see more data. And it's very important of safety be in place. So, this is definitely not So, it appears that once that habit breaking through self-awareness of what the habits are, is going to be a primary entry point. That might seem kind of trivial. You might say, well, could you have just told but I want to return us to this model about homeostatic processes, That leads us to a place you can't simply say break the habit. An individual needs to be informed about where that habit comes from. And the fact that what currently seems like a rewarded habit should Now, I don't mean by actual punishment, but what I mean is within the brain, there's been a switch to learn that there's been a be rewarding is now punished Starvation is now rewarded. The beauty of being a human of knowledge can allow you I'll say that again, the beauty of being a human of knowledge can allow you Now, of course, when we are when we are intoxicated, we have less access to that of knowledge, to intervene. The anorexic will often do with their habits, such as overexercising. This is a area that anyone or interacted with that they are constantly moving. They're constantly on the treadmill. They're constantly running. They always want to be so that they can feel with food or because they Well, does breaking a habit mean that they should stop moving No, not necessarily. There's some really that shifting anorexics towards activities that for instance, build and allow them to eat a bit more food without necessarily losing weight, but rather to put more can actually be beneficial. Now I'm not talking about has all body dysmorphia but certain forms of Meaning they break down They reduce body weight, overall, other types of exercises or anabolic, they allow And there are some interesting but some interesting studies not to stop exercising, but rather to stop exercising of breaking oneself down, but rather getting them of only approaching low while also encouraging them to and to start to learn and between exercise for sake including the bones, not just which is important, And then to see food as a to building a body that could Hopefully there, once the that they're maintaining that weight, but that they don't have to no pun intended of balancing they have with activity. And along the lines of that. During the episode on fat I talked about this neat thermogenesis where people tend to bounce around a lot. They're kind of fidgety of calories a day, anywhere Now that can be beneficial for and have a healthy mindset about food, but are trying to lose weight. And it turns out that by, you literally fidgeting and this is why I'm doing this. It looks ridiculous. You actually burn a lot That way provide you're you'll burn body fat a passive tissue. It actually receives input from neurons that release noradrenaline and adrenaline. And this neat. Has been described for And it actually is a pretty terrific way to burn off more calories. So, with the anorexic, you actually want to encourage be trying to burn off calories. That can be very challenging. So, shifting them toward activities or resistance this more anabolic type of as opposed to catabolic can be beneficial. Before we move on to talking disorders, I want to talk That's very interesting, but that has received a lot of attention and that's the distorted self image. Now, episode and depression, we talked about a very powerful which is this anti-self who are depressed seem And even confabulate about the fact that they are performing poorly in life and that they are no good or It's literally a lie that they and their feelings and to reflect that lie. They're not conscious of it. That's why we call it a confabulation. Anorexics often will see or imperfect in ways that they'll think, oh, you know, their arms are a little bit fat, you know, or, you know, the contour, their face makes they of themselves or they. What I'm describing here is of a lot of people. I mean, how many people do a picture of them, they And then they tell you that That doesn't necessarily or they're suffering from That just means that they're about how they appear in the world. We're not here to judge that The problem seems to be that of their self image so much so themselves accurately, their And the reason we know this, it's because of some really important and beautiful studies that Jeremy Bailenson's lab at Stanford, he's in the department of communications, he's actually collaborated with a Dr. Halpern that What's really interesting about us a window into the perceptual I've actually done one I'm fortunate to not be anorexic, but I've done some work And what you get to do is of yourself to the point as accurate as it could possibly be, and anorexics, really distort this avatar. In other words, they create this serious of themselves and the reality. So, indeed it does seem to be or I should say what's encouraging about some of the therapies that we talked about before the family based model, the Connie behavioral treatments. Yes, and the drug treatments as well. But this habit intervention to shift those things, it does appear that the to follow that the to shift along with the change in habits. And that's a relief, or at least I find that reassuring because changing one's as somebody who's worked on visual perception and related things. The perceptual apparatus of to neuroplasticity, meaning Whereas it appears that the circuitry that's related to habit and the reward, circuitry, And so anorexics as they progress out of their anorexic state into one, which they are intervening gaining better habits more accurately, assessing foods and environments that as they change their behavior. And they start to put on healthy weight, maybe they're also doing the them to put on healthy of extreme exercises of cannibalism and breaking themselves down. They also managed to somehow of all that rewire their So, it doesn't seem that oh my gosh, you're so thin. You really need to eat. That doesn't seem to work. They just don't see that you see them. And so I offer that as a if you know someone that's anorexic, or if you look at an how is it that they are even nonexistent amount of body fat on their triceps or something? How is that? Well, it's literally that their brain, as it relates to perceptions, visual perceptions in particular, And fortunately by changing habits, you rewire those circuits as well. Okay, so let's talk about bulimia, which is overeating and by self-induced vomiting or by ingestion of laxatives, sometimes also in concert with people taking over ingestion of stimulus to And then we'll also talk which has a lot of the but typically no purging. I'm not going to list off that would allow someone or binge eating disorder. But the general features are calories than they need, their daily caloric intake, oftentimes within a two hour period, which is just a staggering in a short period of time. Oftentimes they're overriding from the body that they're full. It's a really troubling but people are literally This looks a lot like a laboratory animal that has these AgRP neurons stimulated, these neurons that will eat until they almost burst or burst. So, you wonder is that these almost certainly yes. That they're involved. Although I don't think that that's going to be the major point of intervention, but we're going to talk about There are a number of clinical criteria. For instance, if somebody once a year, does that make them bulimic? Technically, no, but I certainly don't recommend people do this. If you are one of these people who has so-called cheat days, right? Some of you may be I think they're a little less common now, but the idea is you eat clean for six days or five days a week or two weeks. And then you have a so-called of go wild and eat whatever is that bulimia. And it has some of the contour of bulimia. If you're vomiting afterwards if you're not, does it constitute full blown bulimia or binge eating disorder? And it's pretty hard to say, the criteria that were described to me is that if somebody a month, over a period of then it likely would qualify. And I certainly know people and by those criteria, they have something like But in general, one of the hallmark features disorder is that people are They're just simply, they're not making the They're not making the They are simply driven from by way of neurocircuitry. They are driven from the than they need. And in some cases than So, it's a lot like the habit that we described for anorexia, it's almost like it's they get going, all are being overridden, all the leptin, the insulin, the glucose, all that stuff has cosmically sky high. And yet they're just what we, the nerds call hyperphagic, So, what's going on there? Well, there've been a lot of ideas, about why this arises. There's the so-called That one's a tricky one. It turns out that cortisol and thyroid hormone to when the binge purge happened. So, there were some studies that looked at thyroid hormone levels and they found elevated Thyroid hormone is involved in metabolism and not just the burning of energy, but the use of energy in of the body, cartilage bone, did a whole episode on By the way, if you're interested in learning but thyroid hormone can also of the binge purge cycle. Now, without listing off that happen with this binge purge cycle, there are a number of things that are really worth pointing out. One is that the vomiting itself, the use of laxatives that to the mucosal lining the mucus lining of the digestive tract the gut microbiome. It can cause all sorts of even and just really terrible stuff. There's a lot of shame oftentimes because people are that vomiting behavior, There's some social isolation. So, you recall from the beginning, it does not appear that sexual trauma is a prerequisite for bulimia. Although sometimes it can of bulimia that distinguishes aside from the fact that to under-eating is a lack of what they call inhibitory control. And that might come as no surprise. But first of all, the bulimic, unlike the anorexic is hyper has other types of impulse behaviors. They might have a little bit of alcohol and then start to eat like crazy. Whereas normally they're very restrictive. That's a common feature of bulimia, sometimes they over ingest Sometimes they are sexually but it's a general issue with satiety once they start eating and And for that reason, many of the treatments and binge eating disorder that don't seem to work so well, or at least most of the time for anorexia. So, the drugs that increase for instance, fluoxetine also called Prozac, Paxil, et cetera. Those things oftentimes can Some of the drugs that are hyperactivity disorder an to talk about in depth some of those same drugs like Adderall, Vyvanse and things of to treat bulimia and Why would that work? Well now you are familiar You probably know more than you ever wanted to, prefrontal cortex is involved path and outcome. Duration path and outcome It's how we think. Okay, if this, then you can imagine how for or for the anorexic, these are For the bulimic this is to essentially be underactive where they think, oh, you I shouldn't eat anything. And then they just tear and plow through that. And then at that point they're and then they're ordering food. And then they're feeling There do tend to be these cycles by feelings of real shame because they just can't And what is more embarrassing one's behavior as an So, really the polar opposite So, this lack of impulsivity implies a lack of prefrontal control. What we call top-down control. Why do we call it top-down? Because the prefrontal the activity of deeper limbic and things of that sort. Anytime you feel like really offensive and you That's your prefrontal cortex. Anytime someone says something and you like grow your teeth. 'Cause you'd know you gritting your teeth is When you explode or burst or say the thing that you you shouldn't do, that's And indeed people who have due to aging or head injuries, see this a lot and people play sports get a lot frontal damage. They become more impulsive. So, bulimics have an and therefore drugs that And sometimes these drugs and adrenaline also called epinephrin, will increase the tone as we or the, it's called adrenergic, but norepinephrine for more top-down control. And that's also why and attention deficit disorder. They tend to create a hyper-focus. They tend to push the brain into, these drugs tend to create a hyper-focus, and tend to push the brain into one in which you think then that, so anticipating outcomes. And for that reason, drugs which is an antidepressant, which mainly increases and norepinephrine and less serotonin, that can also be effective of binge-eating disorder is actually used to treat smoking, for and for depression, but of obesity related to And the data are pretty good. And there are timed release forms of this and non-time release forms. And I think you have to consult to get these prescribed because but it's a very different and brain areas and The treatment of binge eating from a new standpoint recently. And that's the work of this now, sadly, former colleague of who's at University of Pennsylvania that I mentioned earlier, they are using deep brain stimulation in order to treat binge-eating disorder. Now why deep brain stimulation? Well work from Dr. at Stanford showed that of brain activity in both but also in an area of the brain called the nucleus accumbens, very important and very in this context, and in any discussion of any kind, feeding, people exercise compulsively, the nucleus accumbens with the prefrontal cortex has no mind of its own, with dopamine release. It's part of this And what Dr. Halpern and is that there are particular that ripple through the brain, through these prefrontal this nucleus accumbens area, It's called Delta oscillations, Delta, just being a particular frequency of electrical activity for your aficionado as wonderful heart activity. But in any case, those Delta oscillations are associated with food Somehow this reverberatory in the individual that And that's interesting, to use a targeted deep to treat binge-eating disorder. And this deep brain to be an effective treatment. There's still more studies Actually, if you think you you can find the criteria for that. And you could contact Dr. Halpern he's. As I mentioned, he's moving They are recruiting patients The studies are fairly invasive. They involve a FDA approved a wire down into an and allows the individual to area to offset some of that lead to a elevated and binge eating. And the data looked really promising. Now I realize that's a Not everybody is going to be willing to have this wire inserted into the brain, but for people that suffer This is a great and very Because what I didn't tell have binge eating disorder are obese to the point where their Now, obesity causes all sorts between the brain and body. Some of which you'll in the discussion, for instance, leptin signaling is disrupted. So, the fat there's lots of body fat, but even though that this hormone leptin in that the desire to eat. The receptors to leptin in the And so the signal to eat is there, but the signal to stop So, again, you have an and it's like, the accelerator Some of these brain to be able to bypass some of that, and of course there all and the problems with having things like insulin I mean, as disturbing as is to here, there are many individuals, actually, I know some who are so obese that they start getting bodily sores. They're not just bedsores, but they have skin sores that They don't like having these sores. And in addition to that, they can get peripheral neuropathies because of some of these metabolic issues. They're not getting enough utilization of the nutrients in the tissue, because the way that insulin and they actually have of their limbs amputated, and So, this is not an issue of be dealt with simply by you have to stop eating or you're going to have Like with anorexia, there's a distortion in but the homeostatic and the So, unlike anorexia, where it seems to be a with bulimia and binge eating disorder, something deep within the to be hyper attractive So, if you want to develop some empathy for what these people are dealing with, consider this, it's like driving a car, you get onto a grade, maybe and you're heading down you'll just pump the brakes a little bit, but there is no break, right? So, you start going faster And your only choice is just to coach through it. That's essentially what's happening to these neural circuits. So, the work of Dr. Halpern and others, I think is really exciting. And even though it's highly invasive, I think is going to lead for the patients that do get but also the identification are present in those brain areas. That could help. What that means is that once are involved in disorder, and those brain areas express, then there can start to be by way of non invasive treatments, things like drug treatments, do behavioral interventions In some cases, yes, provided that those interventions Regardless, behavioral interventions, coupled with drug based interventions are always more effective Fortunately, there is a that can help with bulimia. I mentioned some of them before things like bupropion, Welbutrin and some of the drugs So, we have on the one hand anorexia, which seems to be a disruption of unhealthy habits in this case, food restriction to the reward pathway. And on the flip side, we have binge eating disorder and bulimia where a very unhealthy with food sometimes followed by purging, is not necessarily coupled to reward. They feel terrible when The anorexic feels great about restricting their food intake. They feel like they're The circuitry is flipped somehow that way. With bulimia they feel that they're bingeing, They can't control themselves. The reward is set up before the behavior, the reward is set up and in making food look like something that's incredibly appetizing There's no way for them to So, really kind of troubling In either case, I think for those of or have observed anorexia, it's so hard to see to near death or to death. What more could be disturbing? Well, equally disturbing is of food and is gorging themselves, and then feels terrible about it. So, these are heavy topics. These are topics that to talk about unless they from them, or they What I've tried to do today into what really underlies these things that we call eating disorders. I hope I've done that at the level of biology neurocircuitry and some of the psychology, as with any episode of this podcast. But especially in this about mental health issues behavioral disorders, there's cover all the different You have the modely approach, you've got all these different into anorexia, et cetera. What I've tried to do And in doing that, I've tried to give you a that also applies to this question. That's I think equally the treatment of eating disorders is what in the world is healthy eating. What in the world is a I like to think that I have a I know the foods I like. I enjoy them. They're 10 or 15 foods in I've mentioned a few of and I was sort of amused, For instance, I do enjoy eating but I do like butter. So, that seemed to be pretty A small selection of people of butter was a health concern. Look to me, ingesting butter in small that I'm comfortable with. And my blood lipid profiles feel good. They look good to me. For other people that For some people. The idea of eating an so repulsive that it actually can make them feel physically sick. And I think that we should of mental phenotype exists. I'm not calling it a pathology things like butter and meat feel healthy. Now, what quantities? Well, I enjoy eating very much. I'm not shy about this. I've talked about on the Some people have a very They don't think of it as nourishment. They don't enjoy it socially. It's a stressful thing for them based on their personal history, or maybe just general anxiety around food. And I hope that in sharing that anytime we approach food, in the arcuate area of our our levels of anxiety. This is related to that which was that from an it is advantageous to ingest as much food as often as possible, We now know that to not be where calories are essentially everywhere. And yet a lot of people of a meal. What could be useful to them? Well, whether or not they have It's very clear that developing in the presence of any anxiety can be beneficial. I've talked about some of these things like the physiological the nose and a long exhale, things like mindfulness There are data, a lot of that meditation practice with eating related anxiety and disorders. I think as a general rule, trying to avoid approaching to eat in an anxious state but let's be realistic. How often can we do that? I think most of us are where we're rushing around out or get to a meal. And then we sit down and This is one of the first where we mostly eat out of not out of a need for food. Most everybody could of time, just ingesting And not that I'm but let's face it. We largely eat nowadays not a need to eat, and yet we need to eat on And so no topic is more complicated and nuanced than food and nutrition. And in particular, as it So, the major takeaways today are, we should all be asking the question, what is healthy eating for us? How do we develop a relationship to food that we can enjoy and on our own, but and compulsive about it. For those of you that intermittent fast, this also applies, right? What, you know, God forbid, if you eat 30 minutes before what does that mean? If it means something catastrophic, do you have an eating disorder? I don't know. Maybe you have an anxiety disorder, that's for you to explore. If you don't manage to and that's your obsession. Well, then, you know, These are questions that Today, we focus on the extremes that really qualify as genuine disorders. They are in the psychiatric and they are serious health concerns. They're not just mentally for the people suffering from them and the people around them, but they are genuine health concerns, just want to reiterate, that interaction nervosa is disorder by a huge margin. And if you look of people with eating of eating disorders, it's not far off from the number of people that die from automobile accidents. I know that that sounds but you can look this up. This is particularly true in we don't know, but again, This is not just related that are created through social media. And as a final point on that, many of you are probably asking What about all the steps that Excuse me, to preen themselves Are people addicted to plastic surgery? Is that a form of body dysmorphia? And indeed it is. And so we will do an and plastic surgery I think there is very little of disorders are clearly in social media and in media, that this shift of, for If you look at action heroes in the '80s, there were very few men You had your terminate, you had your stallone's and a few others, but the if they were muscular, they were far more There's this kind of, there's a, literally a hypertrophy of the imagery. And likewise there's been hypertrophy of the female body shape. As it's portrayed in the media. There are body dysmorphia that are related to those types of things. And that relate to things steroid abuse, diet, Definitely important to and definitely deserving You've learned a lot I hope that was useful in and in thinking about and motivated behaviors, I would love for you that was handed off to me, that I think is so powerful for thinking about all sorts of but all kinds of behaviors and perceptions that you have one box for what you think, one box for what you do and what is intervening between those? Why is it that you can know Well it's because you also have to cope with the subconscious and reward processes. And those oftentimes that we find ourselves doing for us or not good for other people. But fortunately, there is this great gift, which is that knowledge to do better without question. And that knowledge of knowledge over time leads to this called neuroplasticity, which into doing better over time. Even if difficult eventually If you're enjoying this please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's Huberman Lab on YouTube. And there, you can also leave and suggestions for future for the Huberman Lab Podcast. As well we hope that you will subscribe on both Apple and Spotify and on Apple, you have the opportunity to review and to give us Please also check out at the beginning of the podcast, that's a terrific way And if you'd like to human performance, sleep and so forth, you can go to a hubermanlab.stanford.edu. And there there's a If you'd like to make a to the laboratory, to explore the sorts of things that relate to neurocircuits stress, Not today, but oftentimes on this podcast, we discuss various that people could possibly with anxiety, improve gut microbiome, improve their sleep, et cetera. We didn't discuss those today, but for those of you if you want to see the ones that I take, you can go to Thorne that's T-H-O-R-N-E .com/the letter U/huberman. So, it's thorne.com/u/huberman. See all the supplements that I take, you get 20% off any of those supplements. And if you enter the Thorne you can get 20% off any of the we partnered with Thorne because they have the highest levels of stringency with respect to the precision of the amounts And while supplements are or necessary for anything really, you can always use behavioral tools. Many people benefit of various kinds. And we do believe that getting supplements of the very highest quality if that's the decision for you. And last but not least, I want to thank you for And thank you for your [fast-paced music]