Seasons change like light. It felt like midsummer just yesterday, but it was the first snow this morning. I came to the campsite to enjoy the snowy scenery. I love the moment when I make footprints in the fresh snow. This time I rented my usual small van. Since this car is a rental, I made a DIY removable shelf. It's going to snow a little tonight. (At that time, I couldn't have imagined something like that would happen...) The plants under the snow were still green. Winter has just started from today. Wow, it's like a fantasy world. I had a cute visitor. It seems that she having a hard time finding food due to the sudden snow. Small children may be waiting hungry in the burrow. They may look cute, but they have risk of being infected with a deadly parasite called Echinococcus. Never touch or feed them. It rarely snows in my hometown, so I never get tired of seeing snowy scenery. It's getting a little chilly. I have introduced a new burner this time. It's compact so it's easy to use in the car. The snow is getting heavier. It's not supposed to be snowing that hard tonight... Even though it's snowing heavily, I feel relieved when I get inside the car. I'm going to take measures against the cold. First, I use an electric blanket to prevent my lower body from getting cold. It seems like the forecast has suddenly changed to heavy snow. This sunshade also has thermal insulation properties. I bought one that matched the size of the car I usually rent. There's snow all over the windows... it's a lot more snow than I expected. I will continue to take measures against the cold. I'll make dinner. I make takikomi rice using salmon and mushrooms. I cook rice using a clay pot. Using a cookie sheet will prevent it from burning. Locally caught salmon. The orange color is beautiful. Season with soy sauce and salt. I provide ventilation when using fire. I also DIYed this ventilation fan to match the car. i surround the area to prevent the spread of fire. I'm curious about what's going on outside. The snow is as high as the side steps of the car. If I don't shovel the snow afterwards, I'll be stuck in the car. The temperature is getting colder. I use a heater. The ventilation fan will continue to be used while the heater is in use. Warm... I use a carbon monoxide checker to prevent poisoning. It smells very nice. I'll have some local sake. &quot;Itadakimasu&quot;. It's delicious... the salmon and mushroom soup soaks up the rice well. It goes perfectly with Japanese sake. It was delicious. &quot;Goshisosamadeshita&quot;. Lately, there has been a lot of damage from bears, so I bought some bear spray just in case. I go out with this at night. I'm going to the bathroom at the campsite. ??? The door doesn't open because of the snow...! As I was worried about earlier, I need to shovel the snow. For now, I'll shovel the snow around the door that I use to enter and exit. For other place, I wll wait until tomorrow morning. The snow is up to my knees. I never imagined it would snow so much in one night. The nature of Hokkaido is terrifying. The toilet feels far away. Snow gets inside my boots. Steam is coming out due to the difference in temperature. Ventilation continues. The camp turned out to be more exciting than I imagined. I'm glad I had prepared everything. Apparently there was a heavy snow warning. Earlier, the campsite staff came to check on us. When the snow is deep, it might be a good idea to stay somewhere where you can get help from others. Man cannot survive alone in heavy snow. It's been since this video that it snowed this much while I was sleeping in my car. This time I went to see the snow monkeys. There were many cute monkeys. Please take a look from the description. I switch to bedtime mode. This sleeping bag is designed for snowy mountain climbing and allows me to sleep comfortably down to -30degC (-22degF). I add a sleeping bag cover to take the performance to the higher level. This time, I got a new pillow. A pillow for snowy mountain climbing that contains down. This time I will test the performance of this pillow. I inflate it with air. I like pillows that aren't too bouncy. I enjoy some relaxing time before bed. IKEA candle. Before I go to bed, I only use candlelight. I read the comments on the previous video. &quot;It's very comfortable and relaxing.&quot; Thank you for your comment, I hope this video is relaxing for everyone. If I buy a car, I want the interior to be more relaxing. Please feel free to leave a comment to commemorate tonight. Well then, good night. Good morning. Hair is exciting. The pillow was very nice. Thanks to you, I slept soundly. It's also nice to be able to fold it compactly. Put the product link in the summary section. This is a seatosummit pillow. Waterproof gloves for agricultural use. The lining is made of brushed material and is warm. Anyway, it's a lot of snow. It's still mid-November. I can't believe. I heard that this winter will be mild, but...the snow is up to my knees. It's tough, but the snowy scenery is still beautiful. The tires are completely covered in snow. For now, I'm going to shovel the snow around the car. To avoid damaging the car, break up the snow with my hands and then slowly shovel it in. For the time being, I was able to remove snow from all but the front of the car. Next is the snow on the roof. I brought a brush, but it's small and useless. It's pretty fun. Just to be sure, I'll check to see if the engine is running. It seems okay. The battery power has been depleted. It relies on the heat source of the heater. Coffee warms my cold body. Make a hot sandwich with hamburger steak. It was baked well. My physical strength will be restored. The campsite owner came to clear the snow...! That's helpful...! Thank you...! It seems that yesterday's snow was also unexpected for him. I'm glad I cleared the snow around my car beforehand. Finally, I take a look at the scenery and head back home. How about this story? Every time I travel, I feel more grateful for the convenience of city life and for my wife. So I'm going to continue this little journey for a little while longer. Please subscribe to the channel and press the bell button to watch the latest episodes. Comments and high ratings will encourage us to continue creating. I'm on Instagram and threads, so please follow me if you like. I'll go on my next trip. See you again in the next video. Thank you for your watching. I am always grateful for your help. I love you.