This time, we will be introducing crab fishing, which opens at the beginning of November every year, and a restaurant specializing in crab dishes that will be offered for a limited time.Although the schedule for 2024 has been postponed by two days due to stormy weather, we will be catching crabs on the opening day. We took a close look at the day the crab was served.On the opening day, the surrounding hotels and inns, as well as the restaurants that cooperated in our interview, were booked by many customers.This time, they cooperated in filming. By the time we arrived at the shop we had received, ``Fishmonger's Eatery Matsuda,'' the owner was preparing to prepare the fish he had bought from the market.Mr . Matsuda was cleaning the scales of the fish he had bought . This restaurant has been in business for over 40 years since its founding in 1993.The restaurant serves dishes using local high-grade crabs such as Echizen crab, Seiko crab, and other local fish.It serves specialty dishes made with popular purchases and carefully selected fresh fish. The owner's father arrives after purchasing the fish. He begins preparations for boiling the crabs in a large pot. On the first floor of the Seiko Crab restaurant, there are several large fish tanks. Local fishermen come to deliver Echizen crabs. It's important to talk about this year's crab fishing and communicate with the fishermen. The Echizen crabs are moved and purchased in a large tank , and the Seiko crabs are carefully cleaned. Preparing for boiling and cleaning the purchased crabs takes a lot of time and man-hours.In the kitchen, the chef prepares the fish.From November to March, when the crab fishing season is open, all over Japan. This is the busiest season of the year, with many customers visiting not only on weekends, but also on weekdays. Fukui Salmon, a local salmon farmed in Fukui Prefecture, begins to be fried in a kettle. Boil it in a large pot for about 20 to 30 minutes.In addition to the white rice used in seafood bowls, the restaurant also prepares crab rice cooked in soup stock made from crab shells, which is used in the famous Seiko crab bowl. The aroma of the delicious soup stock fills the room . Boiled Seiko crabs are pulled out of the large pot. Seiko crabs, which are sorted by size, are also boiled in the large pot . Previously, customers could use the facility without making reservations. Even if you come from far away, it may be sold out, causing inconvenience, so we now have to make reservations in advance.The crab meat, inner roe, and outer roe of Seiko crab are peeled by hand, and two whole crabs are used. Making Tadon is a very time-consuming process.We order Seiko crab online and peel each crab by hand to match the dishes served at the restaurant.As the opening time approaches, The parking lot is starting to fill up with the cars of customers who have made reservations.The famous crab bowl, which uses crab rice cooked in crab shell soup, is popular.Seiko crab can only be caught from the beginning of November to the end of December, so it's a real treat. This crab is available for a limited time only, and over 7,000 bowls have been ordered in the short period of time when it can only be tasted for the past two months.The black bowl has a regular serving size, and the white bowl has a large serving.Usually, Seikodon is made with two cups of Seiko crab.More Some customers order ``crab add'', which uses 4 cups worth of crab.It is a gorgeous sashimi made with several types of seasonal fish.Choose crab from the fish tank and boil it in a pot at the restaurant.Enjoy it. You can also enjoy Fukui salmon salmon roe bowl Extra large shrimp fried salmon roe bowl This restaurant is frequented by many families with children, so we also offer children's lunches.In addition to boiled crab, you can also enjoy crab sashimi.Crab miso In addition to the delicious shell-grilled crab sashimi, you can also enjoy crab in shabu-shabu.The business hours have become calmer, so you can enjoy the shop's recommended set meals.In addition to sashimi and fried set meals, there are seafood bowls, salmon, and more. The salmon roe bowl and a la carte dishes are served.The most popular is the rice bowl made with Seiko crab.Seikodon is a rice bowl made with two servings of Seiko crab, and is a rice bowl with plenty of crab meat, roe, and roe.Pickles It also comes with soup and soy sauce.We recommend adding soy sauce or crab vinegar to the crab shells, adding miso to the bowl, or sprinkling it with sudachi or lemon.Matsu is a popular restaurant that is crowded with many customers. In addition to serving meals, we also sell crabs directly, so many of our customers come to enjoy fresh crab at home.You can also order through our online shop, so even those who can't come to the store can enjoy it. Due to the extension of the Shinkansen line that can be used , we have taken a close look at a day in the life of a popular restaurant in Hokuriku and Fukui, which is visited by many people.If you are interested, please take a trip to Hokuriku and enjoy the delicious sea food at home from our online shop. Why not enjoy the delicacies of