Ethiopia is one of Africa's most beautiful and fascinating countries and a surprising travel destination. From spectacular mountain landscapes to vast lakes and mysterious deserts. From incredible historic landmarks to vibrant modernizing cities. It is the only country in Africa that was never colonized which evolved during times of kingdoms and empires. While Christianity and Islam are the main religions, Ethiopia is also a patchwork of many different ethnicities, customs, and traditions, including tribes that have retained some of their lifestyle. In this video, I will show you 10 beautiful places I visited, At the time of editing this video, Ethiopia is in political and which is causing great suffering to ordinary civilians. Like most people, I hope all parties involved can come to an agreement, and start rebuilding this incredible land. As a result of the conflict, some of the places in this video Always follow travel advice, and consult local guides, to avoid We begin this journey in the North of Ethiopia, to visit the Little can prepare you for the sight of these structures, Construction began some 800 years ago, during the who, according to legend, wanted to build a new Jerusalem, Today, Lalibela remains an important place of worship And you can see pilgrims praying and chanting in all Traveling to the Danakil Depression is like stepping into a different world. This is one of the hottest and most inhospitable places on Earth. And can only be reached with experienced tour companies, But for those who make it here, a surreal landscape awaits, with sulfur springs, bubbling volcanoes, acidic pools, and salt lakes. While traversing the vast desert, you may come across groups of They spend weeks following an ancient salt route, eventually Set in a landscape of sandy desert and sharp peaks, is the incredible Abuna Yemata Guh rock-hewn church. Located in the troubled, yet beautiful Tigray region, this church is one of the most unique places of Built halfway up a sheer rock pinnacle, Abuna Yemata Guh can only be reached via a steep, The site is managed by 20 or so clergymen, and some of the priests There are over 100 other rock-hewn churches in this region, The striking Simien Mountains National Park is It was formed more than 40 million years ago, that created a plateau with jagged peaks and pinnacles. Today, it offers travelers plenty of opportunity for on which you are likely to meet gelada baboons, These sociable monkeys are unique to this area, making them the highest dwelling primates on our planet. Gondar is home to some of Ethiopia's most visually striking monuments, with royal palaces, churches, and castles. The city flourished for over a century after Emperor Fasilidas due to its strategic location. Many of the original buildings remain intact, or have been renovated, including the beautiful Fasil Ghebbi fortress, In the far North of Ethiopia lies Aksum, a small city This was the center of one of humanity's great which dominated trade in this region for many centuries. Aksum is filled with ancient sites, including the eye-catching stelea, or obelisks, that served as tombstones and memorials. And the remains of the Dungur, popularly known as Queen Sheba's Palace. Yet the grounds of the Church of Saint Mary of Zion may According to Ethiopian legend, this is where the famous Ark of the Covenant After traversing the North, we arrive in the center of Ethiopia, to visit the bustling capital city, Addis Ababa. Home to more than 5 million Ethiopians, Addis attracts people from It's a vibrant metropolis and serves as a great introduction Addis is a sprawling city, and navigating the busy However, there are plenty of areas to visit, including downtown Meskel and my personal favorite the crowded Mercato, South Ethiopia is a distinctly different land from the North, But it's not the urban life that attracts visitors to Arba Minch. Rather, the spectacular Nechisar national park. Located in the Great Rift Valley, Nechisar boasts One of them, Chamo, is especially popular for You can also spot other wildlife here, such as pelicans, who may casually wander around the garden of your hotel. Set in the cool mountains near Arba Minch, known for their towering homes, made from bamboo and 'ensete' leaves. These leaves are also the main ingredient for 'kocho', a bread like fermented food that is sometimes used Cotton weaving and pottery are important sources The Dorze grow their own coffee beans, and visitors with freshly roasted beans, grounded on the spot. We finish this journey through Ethiopia in the Omo Valley, which is truly a destination in itself. The area of Konso is regarded as the jumping off point for the valley, with incredible villages built on terraced hillsides, The terrain slowly changes as you enter the Lower Omo Valley, a region that is home to a wide variety of ethnic groups, It's a fascinating area that gives travelers a chance to get up close Traveling here comes with great responsibility, as these destinations often run the risk of turning into Make sure to interact with people, and get to understand them, Tourism can have a positive effect, and for some of the villages But it's important that it happens in a respectful and meaningful way. If anywhere I would recommend hiring local guides, it is here. And that concludes my journey through Ethiopia, spectacular landscapes, incredible wildlife, and I hope this video gave you some new insights, but above all I wish the people of Ethiopia a safe and promising future. Take care, everyone.