Here I have a which I have removed I'm going to disable this motor partially brought up in the last episode. If you haven't seen to this one, it's that you watch that first. I explained how induction I'm going to put You can watch that, one you should be able to flow right into this one. At the end of that video, I told induction motors work on the same principle of three phase The single phase motor doesn't rotating magnetic field. It has an oscillating magnetic field, one not enough to get the motor to rotate. In fact, if you have a force going this a millisecond later, one going in exactly the each other out, and on the rotor. What we need is a spinning magnetic field. To demonstrate this, I'm going to show you only supplied with single phase. As you can see, it's humming, so we but it's not actually rotating. Here's the interesting thing. There, you just give it a kick to In fact, it continued to spin on If you think about it We have a magnetic field We give the motor some momentum in one rotating, and the magnetic field is pulsing and hitting the That pulsing magnetic field the rotating magnetic field The torque that's produced is not nearly as smooth as that of a three phase motor. In fact, it's pulsating just like the replicates how often there's a nudge or a force pushing on the shaft. Spinning the rotor is How do we get this What we want to do is replicate what we motor with the single phase supply that we have available, and I'll What we have here This is a two pole motor. It's got one winding, but that one winding a south pole, and therefore, it's a two pole motor. Over here, you see another set of is a starter winding. The starter winding is what you saw me do manually just a moment ago. It gives the motor a kick start. We discussed in the last video that if you up to single phase supply, they will be completely in phase. They will fire at the same time, means what alternating current is positive for a little while, and then negative, both be fully positive and fully negative at the same time, and a rotating magnetic field. What we need to do is somehow simulate by shifting one of these out of phase a devices that you can this. The first one is a start capacitor. Capacitor is very similar to a battery in potential across the two terminals, and it stores a charge. If you hook this up, it will battery, except capacitors discharge very rapidly. The symbol for a this, at least the in. There are start capacitors that looks like this, usually have a plus symbol as well. That just denotes which direction the They're polarized, and so if you hook We'll hook up that's what I have from my washing machine motor. I'll let you see it When we add our the start of winding of the run winding as That slight shift in the start winding will kick that we need Now, the start of winding is While there are to run continuously with the time you have a start capacitor here, to be powered for just a few seconds, or even Another thing to note is the wire is is one of the ways you can identify to the run winding. The start of winding will have a much the fact that it's got a much thinner wire. But if you have a thin wire and you run motor is running, that wire will get very hot, just like It's heating up and that can So we need a way of turning this guy off. There are two ways to approach this. One, you could put and you guys have It's a switch where you hold it to get the when you let go, in that, you push it and you let go, the motor is running, and across the start winding. That gets everything kicked you let go, the Another option would be So I'm just going to And this is a very common method motors, the centrifugal switch. So let me show you this guy in show you the centrifugal switch. All right, we've got Now I want you Let's try that again. You heard when I start That's the centrifugal switch opening Okay, so you can just barely see that the shaft right there that I'm pushing on, and I'm going to show you can see better here in just a moment, but and let me get my cut open motor for you. So here's another single phase induction You'll see that there's So the spring is and what I mean by that is in the position is in now, this little white tab that you is in the closed position. So you have a complete When the stator is begin to spin, and out, which is why it These weights will fling out like this, the white contact lifts off. I mean, this is really ingenious. You don't have to touch the shaft. You don't have to You don't have to worry about When the motor reaches is determined by the size of your weights and your spring here, Your starter winding is disengaged, and making it completely automated. Phenomenal engineering there. Another one that I want to show you, really ingenious, and that's the shaded pole motor. So what you're looking little tiny fan that I Let's power it on for you real quick. Take this off so you can see it better. So what we have here is an induction copper band wrapped around the corner. Now, something I haven't told you up until is the magnetic field, is also a term much better than it does through the air. And this is why the core is always this, because it simply transmits that magnetic field much When you have a magnetic field produced by in this iron here. We've got AC current flowing through here. It's pulsing just like the other one, Whoever came up with Check this out. Notice where the coils are. In the first video, I told you that passes a conductor like this copper coil, that copper induced in it, and field which opposes the We could see that physically. The magnet fell very let us know that there was a force pushing back in the opposite direction that Well they've done the They've built in a slight The way it works is this guy will north and the south pole. We'll just say at north and this side field is flowing through the iron like so, side, going up, and flowing through the iron over to the south. Well, along the way, some of it is passing pass through here. When that magnetic field comes up and it becomes an electromagnet. The copper is resisting changes in its the magnetic field up here to be a little bit In effect, what you have is a north pole a fraction of a second later the north pole hits this side, It's a little torqued there. It's really ingenious. The same thing is happening on Now, you can't produce a lot of power like why you see something like this only in little fans, because At the beginning, it to get the fan moving, and then once it's up to speed, then it's single-phase induction motor. Now it's got its own momentum, helping it keep it spinning. Okay, so it looks like next we've answer video coming up. If you would, scroll down to the comments, will try to answer as many questions If I've made any video, I will add so be sure to check that and see if or just was simply mistaken about something. You know, I can make mistakes too. I'm going to put the playlist So, if you are falling into the middle of click on that link and it will take you to the playlist so all these videos in order. If you're not a subscriber, I'd love Just hit the subscribe until then, I'll see you guys next time.