. (Suspenseful Music) Dragon's Teeth. The concrete blocks in the Eifelwald are relics of a mighty fortification. It stretched 600 kilometers from the Upper Rhine through the Palatinate and Eifel to the Lower Rhine. With more than 20,000 bunkers. This was the most gigantic construction work ever done since Roman times . The West Wall. The propaganda declares it a defensive structure. But he made the war of aggression in the East possible in the first place. In Hitler's calculus it is part of his preparations for the Second World War. The Third Reich placed masses of material and half a million people in its service. Everyone has to come. If he doesn't come, he'll go to jail. But in the end, the allegedly insurmountable border installation became a death trap for many soldiers. Broke through at one point and rolled everything up from behind, partly with flamethrowers, so no one could get out. And today: The remains run through the southwest like a green ribbon that invites you to walk along them and tell your story. (Quiet music) The Europa Bridge near Weil am Rhein. Here, in the extreme south-west of the republic, a journey along the West Wall begins for students of the Trier University of Applied Sciences . They are looking for the remains of the former fortification. And we accompany them. What looks like a barbecue area here is the heavy concrete cover of a West Wall bunker. That's not the only surprise Patrice Wijnands has in store for the students. The man with the cap is Dutch and grew up right next to the West Wall. What nobody can really see: This is actually where a monument begins. Here in Baden-Wurttemberg, first of all 200 kilometers along here. From the banks of the Rhine to the north, to the north of Karlsruhe. You will see a lot of this in the coming days. There are even more tangible things in the other federal states. But here, at the southwestern point, this is where the west wall begins. (Quiet music) The architecture students first look for remains directly on the Rhine. After bunkers, tank obstacles, trenches. Together with Patrice Wijnands they hike north. Along the Upper Rhine, through the Palatinate Forest and the Eifel, up to the Lower Rhine. Ten kilometers to the north , the first remains appear. near Efringen. Here workers uncover parts of bunkers during shaft work for flood basins and remove ammunition. On the other side of the Rhine: France. 70 years ago the hereditary enemy. Concrete colossuses weighing tons with meter-thick walls and loopholes come to light during the work. This bulge that you see here is a separate room with a notch. So that one could have protected these entrances with a rifle. Then there was a lock at the back. Not even a gas lock, but a lock with notches. To prevent soldiers from infiltrating the structure . And beyond that came a room with beds. (Quiet music) That's what's left: a few remains of a bunker, a whole heap of rusted barbed wire, a pitchfork. What do they remember? We pick up the trail. It takes us a good 80 years into the past. At the start of construction work on the West Wall. 1937. (Quiet Music) Urloffen, near Offenburg on the Upper Rhine. Thousands of young men were assigned to work here, on construction sites along the western border. There are even film recordings of this one. A soldier from the sixth rifle company from Neckarsulm took them in. She was ordered to the Rhine overnight. The work begins in the midst of puzzled farmers going about their field work. Neither they nor the men know what is being built here. They have no idea that they are part of Adolf Hitler's war plan. The war still seems far away. The atmosphere on the construction site is like that of a tent camp. (Quiet music) Georg Kleis was born near the construction site, in Meissenheim near Appenweier. The now 100-year-old remembers the day he was drafted very well. He was 18 at the time. The community called us young boys, the 18-year-olds, to the town hall. It was made clear to us that we had to go to Marl near Kehl the next day and had to report there. And there is a Schwarz company, and we come to the company to work. We are conscripted, everyone has to come. If he doesn't come, he'll go to jail. Everyone was needed. Carpenters, bricklayers, wire pullers, roofers, iron cutters. At first the men knew each other, they all came from the villages in the area. Gradually, however, workers came from all over the empire. Then they were divided into twelve men. With shovel, pickaxe and wheelbarrow. And then we started digging the bunker pit. We came from agriculture. There weren't any bubbles. You had thick skin and strong hands. That was no problem. We were strong, we were tough as leather. I've carried 100 kilos with no problem. This went on for hours in one tour. Without music, without everything, no. And if we were hungry, there was sandwiches and warm tea. (Serious music) These are recordings of work in Saarland, near Ensdorf. The so-called Red Zone is created along the western border of the German Reich. Five kilometers wide, more than 600 kilometers long. Evacuation area in case of war. The construction of the west wall begins with individual fortifications: the bunkers on the Upper Rhine and the dams here at the Saar crossings. (Energetic music) The bunkers have names. This is the Adolf Hitler Bunker. Initially, each section builds its own bunkers. Uncoordinated, with different gaps, different ceiling thicknesses, own design. Only gradually did the bunker builders develop uniform models from the countless variants. (Serious music) Gregor Milbert followed the construction in the Eifel as a child. He could see them, the men from the Reich Labor Service in their uniforms, digging bunker holes. (Serious music) The first bunkers that were built, they were built up here in the field of vision, from the field of eight up here. This was an open agricultural area, you could see several hundred meters away. From there you had a field of fire from the forest ... visible from afar, you could monitor everything. (Serious music) The West Wall is the story of Adolf Hitler's largest military structure. Everyone works together, civilians and military. (Hammering) Our relatives already had a tractor at the time, and they pulled it in with them. Horses were brought in, even dogs were needed. Everything ... There came a muster, including a dog muster. There were all sorts of things there. All for the blessing of the Greater German Reich. So the propaganda got the people going. A year before the invasion of Poland, a year before the beginning of the war of aggression, Hitler justified the construction of a defensive structure in western Germany. In reality, however, the purpose of the West Wall was to keep the French and English from attacking the empire while invading Poland to the east. The work on it triggers a veritable migration of peoples. Between 1937 and 1940 they flushed hundreds of thousands of Germans from all over the Reich into the then sleepy, backward Southwest. (Serious music) Happy farewells, but work and pay beckon for many. But: Countless of these men will die in the bunkers they built themselves at the end of the war . (Serious music) Overnight, close to small, sleepy hamlets, barrack camps with hundreds of beds are created. Along the borders with France, Belgium, the Netherlands. These photos of a labor camp come from the Eifel near Dasburg, near the Luxembourg border. (Chaos of voices) Tens of thousands of workers are billeted in remote camps on the Reich border, others in gymnasiums, schools and private homes. The west wall changed the lives of the residents in the border regions. They don't really know how to deal with the fun-loving men who have come in droves. (Animated music) Steinfeld is completely Catholic and of course he was also concerned about the modesty of his own girls here in the village. Well, that was it... Yes, a lot of tension and strangeness and rejection. Something was going on then. People were happy. Also in sales, there were small shops, cigarettes and everything, schnapps, it went like hotcakes there. But people in the Southwest are torn. While the workers are well paid and welcome customers, the young men bring a different culture from the big cities to the countryside. In the villages there are always fights between workers and locals. Quite a few end up in prison. There was dancing and there were girls. Yeah... Or I danced with a girl too. Then a truck driver came who was a bit drunk. With a stuffed bird. And he... poked me with his beak. And I gave him one. Then he went out. Later he came off the truck with the pole. But he didn't hit me, he hit someone else. And then he was in the hospital. And then he got jail. (Bright music) Entertainment should distract. The Cologne drama group around Willy Millowitsch performs regularly. The Bavarian musicians from the Eisele singing group are also on the construction sites. (Bright music) Nevertheless, the camp managers have their greatest trouble with the workers. We were always told that here in Bauler, there was theater every week and all sorts of things, so that you could keep people in check a bit. But it did play a very important role, including ethical and religious things, as we are used to here. For some women it was a problem, maybe not a problem. Many living witnesses are left here, also in the area. The workers weren't afraid either. They had a completely different attitude to life than we had here in the West back then. In the towns of the south-west there is traffic as only in large cities. 4,000 buses bring the workers to the bunker construction sites. Hitler's coercive state has access to each of these men and determines where they are deployed . On May 28, 1938 , Westwall workers with spades marched in Nuremberg. Hitler gives them orders to accelerate the expansion of the western fortifications. (March music) 11,800 bunkers are to be completed within four months. (Quiet music) The students are now south of Karlsruhe, near Rheinstetten , on their journey of discovery along the West Wall . There are still a few bunkers from the so-called Ettlinger Riegel. (Serious music) For the first time you see the inside of a combat bunker. About 16 soldiers should have even slept in this room. Beds hung here on these beams, with chains hanging from the ceiling. And here you were safe from shelling, safe from machine gun fire, safe from poison gas. The bunkers were hermetically sealed during fighting. Meter-thick walls were supposed to protect the soldiers for days. Today wrens nest in the niche where a bunker lamp stood. (Quiet music) These are the remains of a bunker in Lake Adolfo, near Heinsberg in North Rhine-Westphalia. (Calm, serious music) (Tense music) District assembly of the NSDAP in Lahr. Hitler is swimming on a wave of national enthusiasm. Swastika flags and Hitler salute. In the south-west people cheer him on. The economic upswing has also contributed to this. (babble of voices) (tense music) The construction of the Autobahn is seen as a visible sign of the rise. Started before Hitler and financed by him only with unsecured loans. The people didn't know that at the time. The Pforzheim civil engineer Fritz Todt had organized the construction of the Autobahn for the Fuhrer. For the Westwall project, he becomes head of the &quot;Todt Organization&quot; and receives extensive powers of attorney. He put the entire construction industry at the service of the National Socialist war preparations. The construction companies already knew when the motorway was being built in which direction it was going. In my opinion, it is a total misinterpretation when the construction companies say that we actually only built, we were engineers and the workers built. But we had nothing to do with politics and the strategy behind it. But it was obvious: Hitler wants war. Military convoys are also a common feature in the southwest . The motorway constructions are important for the reputation of the people. The west wall is important for the war. In order to reach its goal , the regime is therefore initially relying on lures. Later, however, more and more under duress. The fact that motorways connect towns and offer well-paid work is applauded, but not really decisive for Hitler. It's not about progress, it's about war. That is why the German Reich is closing the borders in the west. Even towards Switzerland, men erect barbed wire barriers, like here near Lorrach. The fences cut right through life. The winegrowers no longer come into their vineyards. But these young Germans believe the propaganda that one must protect oneself against the French. The delusion was to go back, so to speak , to the Middle Ages, to the Middle Ages or even further back. To lock oneself in with borders, to remain in the wagon castle mentality. Seal off borders, fortify them martially. This is what Germany's western border looks like. Barbed wire barricades, like here near Saarlautern, free field of fire to the horizon. Over there is France. France is the ultimate rogue state. France, the victor of the First World War, is the enemy in general. France also sees it similarly. (French archive contribution) Because France also protects itself with border fortresses. But the Maginot Line is already largely complete. It is considered the pinnacle of fortification art and is designed to give the French people a sense of security. (Energetic music) (Idyllic music) It really is a line of defence. Unlike Germany, France does not want war under any circumstances. In Paris, the construction work in the Reich is followed with great concern. The Germans build fortresses, partly underground. (Machine noise in the background) In 1939 the construction work reached its peak. So far, 1,600 square kilometers of forest have been felled. 8,000 railway wagons bring material to the construction sites. Around a third of industrial production is built on the West Wall. Fritz Todt changes the economic structure of the German Reich for construction. He integrates the entire German cement industry and the timber industry into his planning staff, including the steel industry. (Archive entry:) Production of barbed wire for the wire barriers in front of the west wall. (Energetic music) The barbed wire, the so-called devil's cord of the First World War, goes into mass production again. (Energetic music) These are recordings of a material warehouse of the Reichsbahn in Lebach in Saarland. The Deutsche Reichsbahn is almost exclusively occupied with the transport of steel girders, cupolas and armor plates. The incredible battle of materials is not hidden from the French. Their secret service gathers information and has the German bunkers in southern France rebuilt. There were plans for the bunkers and then the exact dosage of cement and the network were exactly recreated. Wall built, shafts recreated, size, depth of the shafts. And then they tested it with tanks, with PAK cannons and shot at them. (Machine noise) There are also such tests on the German side. At the Hillersleben military training area , weapons experts are developing new military technology for the West Wall and testing bunkers in fire tests. How to protect soldiers from flamethrowers? Afterwards we realized that it was nonsense, nonsense. They bypassed all the fortifications here. Broke through at one point and everything was rolled up from behind, partly with flamethrowers. Nobody got out anymore. The end will be terrible. But now Hitler has long planned the invasion of Poland. The West Wall is intended to prevent France and England from coming to the aid of the ally with an attack in the west. Hitler does not want a two-front war. Construction technology is making huge advances. However , the engineers completely underestimated the effort required for the concrete and shaft work . For the innumerable anti-tank obstacles and bunkers , more concrete was needed than ever before. 17 million tons of concrete were used on the west wall. With the amount that was produced daily, 30 kilometers of Reichsautobahn could be built. They suddenly had to produce cement in such quantities that their normal, ordinary machines could no longer do it. And the engineers at Dyckerhoff started to think in other dimensions and developed other machines. These drums, for example, suddenly had to double, triple and up to ten times the capacity. These are photos of the company premises of the mechanical engineering company Vogele in the port of Mannheim. In order to be able to meet Hitler's extreme planning requirements, the engineers search for technical solutions and invent the truck with a mixing drum. But the amounts are still not enough. That's why Todt also had construction machines brought in from all over the Reich: excavators, grabs, compressors, conveyor belts. The English later said that since Roman times it was the most gigantic construction work that had ever been completed. Whether you compare it with the Great Wall of China or with the Limes, it was definitely ... All of these walls that were built here had the same character as the Limes. Fritz Todt plans this criminal, weapon-ridden border. Its headquarters are in the Hotel Kaiserhof in Wiesbaden. 150 civil engineers work here. They divide the west wall into 42 sections with 19 overhead construction lines. From Freiburg via Landau, from Sankt Wendel, Trier via Bitburg, up to Duren, Aachen, Julich. From there they oversee more than 1,000 construction companies. With this mammoth project, however, the Nazis were also able to fall back on plans that had begun years earlier. (Dark music) As early as the 1920s, fortress pioneers had been illegally sent to the left bank of the Rhine, a zone that had been demilitarized since the end of the First World War . Mind you, by the governments of the Weimar Republic. Even they wanted to counter the Maginot Line with their own system. Experts surveyed the terrain and planned a deeply tiered system of bunkers, trenches and artificial rivers for anti-tank obstacles. These men had it in their blood. I do not hope that there is now a certain admiration. But you just have to have that feeling. You have to have a feel for the landscape. That means there are people who look at a map and can implement it, they see the map and the landscape. But the structure changes the character of the site. Like here on the Palatinate Heights near Zweibrucken. Or in the small village of Rimschweiler. (Quiet music) A normal coexistence of the Palatinate, Lorraine and Alsatian neighbors, as they were used to, is no longer possible. Barbed wire obstacles in the Palatinate Forest. The men at the construction site in Urloffen on the Upper Rhine have been working for many weeks. The rifle company from Neckarsulm created the shell here. The military will later also supply the weapons. Sometimes we worked at night. If, for example, T-beams came ... or building materials. And the French should not see and hear anything. Then came the small train with very little steam and no lights, and then we had to work at night. A pointless undertaking, since the French know exactly what is happening over there. Reed mats don't help as privacy screens. The construction of the wooden footbridges in the swampy Rhine meadows did not go unnoticed by the French either. This whole alluvial forest outside was criss-crossed like in Celtic times, with nothing but catwalks. You could really only move out there in carts, through fords or over these kilometer-long footbridges. So a whole traffic system. The gnats were earlier, when people didn't spray, as Goethe mentioned 100 or 200 years earlier, the Rhine islands were a disaster. People were stabbed here. I mean, the malaria was almost under control. But it was out there... working, sweating, and then this plague of mosquitoes. Well, I know a lot of older people who aren't from this region, the first thing they tell about the west wall is the mosquito plague. The soldiers on both sides watch each other within shouting and sighting range. Lots of soldiers here and there know each other well. Not infrequently, the men are even related to each other. This is eight millimeter footage from a British tourist. On a trip through Luxembourg in the Eifel, he suddenly finds himself in front of a bunker construction site. He films the top-secret military project impartially. And this is what a finished section looks like. A succession of standardized bunkers, with embrasures, connected by tunnel systems or trenches. (Soft atmospheric music) The student group has arrived at the northern end of the Upper Rhine near Karlsruhe. Here the west wall turns to the Palatinate Forest, to the west, towards Saarbrucken. (Soft atmospheric music) In the Rheinauen, south of the Bienwald, there are wet anti-tank ditches. Artificial canals that were supposed to stop tanks at the time. There are also long armored walls here, which over time have been overgrown by trees and bushes. At the end of the Second World War, Germans and Americans fought bloody battles in the Bienwald . (Tense atmospheric music) This is a bunker in a small hamlet in the Eifel, sandwiched between a garage and the house. Behind, on the other side of the valley: Luxembourg. Here, the start of construction completely changed people's lives. The new border cuts through villages that are in different countries but actually belong together. Members of the German Wehrmacht shoot these film recordings on the border river Our. At that point there was no official border because people were walking back and forth. The Luxembourgers had fields on the German side, the Germans had fields on the Luxembourg side - which came about through the marriages. Then a Luxembourg woman was married to Germany and kept her share of the fields , so they had their fields on the Luxembourg side. Upside down too. And then there is a limit from one day to the next. And that's not all. A sophisticated system of spying and surveillance by the Gestapo creates distrust and fear. There is also one on the other side. Yves Rasqui tells what happened in Eisenbach on the bunker-reinforced Our when a man died on the German side and had to be buried in Luxembourg. On the day of the funeral , the German family came onto the bridge with the coffin. Chairs were set up in the middle of the bridge. The coffin was laid down on these chairs. The priest, the acolyte, the family came from the Luxembourg side - also from the Luxembourg side. And then this coffin was...carried into the church. Only with the closest relatives from the German side. That was the condition. The neighbor wasn't allowed to come along or something. Just the closest ones, that is, the wife and children, and that's it. Then they went to the mass, when the mass was over, the Germans had to go back immediately, under strict surveillance so that no one went to the cemetery or with the Luxembourg family ... let's say, something to eat or drink . That was strictly forbidden. There are draconian penalties for border violations, police custody. The livelihoods of the farmers in the border strip are also at risk, as they have fields on both sides of the Our. There were difficulties. They had to keep submitting new applications. They always had to have a special passport with them, otherwise they couldn't get across the border at all. The customs officials wouldn't have let them over. All plots were cut up and down. You had a piece lying here, on the other side again. For us it was particularly serious here due to the anti-tank barriers. It was even worse afterwards - the management, right. Because a lot of barbed wire had been laid here. There were entire areas that could no longer be managed. We got no more day laborers. Mowers or harvest hands and the like. The price suddenly increased tenfold. Otherwise it was so common here that a person got a Reichsmark. Later two, three, and then it went up to ten Reichsmarks. So that was a disadvantage for us. (Lively babble of voices) Construction work on the Black Forest High Road . In order to advance the construction work, forced laborers, convicts , are increasingly being used. The newsreel propaganda conceals this, staging the construction of the West Wall as an event of national unification. Supplies are brought to the positions on the heights of the Black Forest via this road . Hundreds of thousands of our comrades who created the mighty work of the western fortifications are now going home to mothers after the work is done. The Fuhrer said to their comrades in Berlin: &quot;The unification of the German people in the Greater German Reich was made possible without a bloody struggle precisely through this work .&quot; But the facility is far from complete. The engineers still lack workers and material. The propaganda hides the reality. (Lively nostalgic music) The Reichskraftwagen Betriebsverband uses over 15,000 trucks from all parts of the Reich in the West. They manage the transport of building materials from the train stations to the construction sites under the most difficult road conditions . In the summer of '39, the Nazi regime had this West Wall film made, at great expense. The director is Fritz Hippler, who later also directed the perfidious Nazi film &quot;The Eternal Jew&quot;. He doesn't document, he stages the construction - as a heroic joint effort by the German people. Choreographies in the style of Leni Riefenstahl. (Energetic nostalgic music) And crowd scenes with singing - the Westwall song. In summer, the leaves on the trees were green. The corn and the wine ripened. On August 10, 1939 , the film was shown in 850 German cinemas. And he can also be seen abroad. The singing army of workers in front of anti-tank barriers is intended to calm the Germans and impress western countries. In the morning at the Wall we're just looking up. We German men from the West Wall building. (Cheerful marching music) Mind you: all this only weeks before the attack on Poland. We German men from the West Wall building. (Cheerful marching music) We did not stand aside as Germany's soldiers. In this great, difficult time. We shook hands with the men from the spade. And were ... The visual propaganda aimed at presenting the construction of the West Wall as a peace wall , as a protective wall. And that was also translated into images , so to speak, and formulated into images. And when you create fear, it's clear that people also want to lean on something that promises them security, so to speak . With the construction of the West Wall, Adolf Hitler made this security promise without pointing out that he actually intended to wage war. Also staged during Hitler's inspection trip on the West Wall. It rushes from Aachen to Weil am Rhein within 72 hours. (Triumphal music) Always there: Fritz Todt. In many places, he only presents the guide with construction sites. But for both, it is the effect that counts. Both outwards and inwards. (Threuter:) Hitler is standing in front of a West Wall bunker as Commander-in-Chief of the Wehrmacht, so to speak . He presents himself as the creator of this bunker, which is also immediately linked to the western fortifications. One could even say it is godlike - he is the creator of this &quot;protective wall&quot; for which the western wall was said to be . (Lively nostalgic music) The Hippler film has also worked with the most modern film techniques. There are a lot of aerial shots in this film, where the positions or the bunkers, or the hump lines are shown from above and the impression actually arises that the West Wall stretches as a band across the whole country or along the western border . Which of course wasn't true either, because many of the hump lines weren't even finished. The Hippler film is already high up in the art of propaganda - it has to be said - due to the dynamics of the scenes that are shown there. I think he swept people away. (Melancholic music) In the villages and towns along the border , West Wall workers are part of everyday life. Like here in Lahr. You are highly respected. And the polished spade is the figurehead of the columns. The spade is actually a tool for physical work, heavy work, that is, it requires a lot of strength, physical work. But in visual propaganda it is used like a soldier's rifle. The workers in visual propaganda, in films, in paintings, also in photographs, staged photographs ... The spade is shouldered by the worker and he proudly holds it like a soldier holds his rifle. And the visual propaganda was aimed at making the workers, so to speak, feel as valued as the soldiers who are at war, who are fighting for their fatherland. In the same way the worker fights with the spade on the home front. (Energetic footsteps, babble of voices) (Melancholic music) Staging here too: spades are not handed out, but handed over. And not only the spade is a symbol of honor. Hitler and Todt invent the Westwall Order. The workers call the award &quot;Lehmorden&quot;. (Celebratory Music) Bestowal of Protection Wall Badges on Westwall Workers. Workers are upset over the generals ' lackluster mass awards. Of course, the newsreel does not show this. On a trip to Germany, the Japanese General Terauchi inspected the fortifications in the west, which he declared &quot;impregnable&quot;. Again, reality doesn't matter. Only the story is important. Now that the plant is said to be finished, it will also be shown to the public. Wer kann, geht Bunker besichtigen. An den Wochenenden pilgern die Menschen in die Grenzgebiete, wie hier bei Iffezheim. Viele Bunker tragen Frauennamen, heissen etwa &quot;Blonde Venus&quot;. Die Prostitution hat zu dieser Zeit Hochkonjunktur. Die Propagandamaschine lauft auf Hochtouren und feiert Dr. Todt. Die Plassenburg bei Kulmbach. Die Schulungsstatte des deutschen Technikers. Dr. Todt verwandelte sie fur die Dauer des Krieges in ein Erholungsheim fur seine Frontarbeiter. Es zahlte zu seinen liebsten Stunden, ab und zu in ihrer Mitte an Sport und Spiel teilzunehmen. (Verspielte nostalgische Musik) Und es gibt Westwallumzuge, wie hier in Saarbrucken. Devotionalien - Pforzheimer Goldschmiede entwerfen Westwallringe. (Heitere Marschmusik) Die Westwallarbeiter fuhrten Festwagen, die den Bau von Bunkern darstellen, im Zuge mit. Doch bei den Arbeitern wandelt sich die Stimmung. Wegen der vielen Uberstunden kommt es zu Arbeitsniederlegungen. Doch davon kein Wort in der deutschen Wochenschau. (Heitere Marschmusik) (Nachdenkliche Musik) Die Amateurbilder der Soldaten vom Geschutzregiment in Urloffen zeigen keine Arbeitsniederlegungen, keinen Protest. Im Gegenteil: der Geschutzstand, ganz wie befohlen, rechtzeitig fertig. Jetzt mussen die Manner ihren Unterstand noch gut getarnt in die Landschaft integrieren. (Melancholische Musik) Dies sind Aufnahmen aus dem saarlandischen Ensdorf-Saarlautern von getarnten Bunkern. Dabei erinnert die verspielte Tarnung mehr an Spass und Abenteuer als an Krieg und Verderben. (Melancholische Musik) Da hat man im Sommer Blumen drangehangen. Im Winter hat man dann das so verkleidet, einen Misthaufen davor, dass man also wirklich geglaubt hat, das ist ein intakter Bauernhof. Bei der Tarnung der Bunker helfen Naturschutzer. Fritz Todt beauftragt sie mit der Gestaltung einer germanisch- deutschen Kulturlandschaft. (Melancholische Musik) Heinrich Himmler ubernimmt spater diese Idee und ubertragt sie vom Westwall auf die eroberten Gebiete. Die entsprechenden Vorstellungen werden auf Osteuropa ubertragen, Also in Bezug auf die Landschafts- gestaltung, aber auch angepasst. Das heisst, man untersucht dort die Vegetation und uberlegt: Was ist deutsch, was kann in einer deutschen Landschaft bleiben, was muss angepflanzt werden? Da kommen wir eben zur Buche, zur Eiche, auch zum Ahorn. Je nachdem - es gab Spezialisten unter den Naturschutzern, die das untersuchten. Dann wurden Plane gemacht, wie die Landschaft bepflanzt werden sollte. Und diese Plane wurden dann bis zum Kaukasus ausgearbeitet. (Melancholische Musik) Aber: So weit wurden sie nie realisiert. Trotzdem waren Naturschutzer Helfer beim Tarnen von Bunkern am Westwall. (Sanfte atmospharische Musik) Unsere Studentengruppe ist im Pfalzer Wald bei Nunschweiler unterwegs. Diese grunen Inseln im Feld sind ehemalige Bunker. Sie wurden nach dem Krieg zugeschuttet. Die Natur hat sich mittlerweile die Bauwerke zuruckgeholt. Naturschutzer wollen diese grunen Bunkerinseln vernetzen zu einem sogenannten &quot;grunen Wall im Westen&quot;. Das sind dann diese Hugel geworden, die so verbuscht sind. Und das ist genau ein bisschen unser Gluck, weil wenn da Vogel versuchen, von den Buschen bis in den Wald zu kommen, ist diese Strecke zu lang, da trauen die sich nicht druber. Jetzt, mit diesen einzelnen Buschen, mit diesen einzelnen Hugeln, nutzen die das als sogenannte Trittsteine. Und die wandern dann quasi von Busch zu Busch, von Bunker quasi zu Bunker. So haben wir heute einen Nutzen von einer solchen Bunkerlandschaft. (Sanfte atmospharische Musik) In vielen Bunkerruinen nisten Fledermause, leben Wildkatzen. Der Kalk im Beton ist guter Nahrstoff fur Moose. Flechten und Farne bewohnen die pyramidenartigen Panzerhindernisse der Hockerlinie. Aus den Uberresten sind langst Biotope geworden. (Sanfte atmospharische Musik) (Vogelzwitschern) Zuruck in den Sommer 1939. Eigentlich sollte der Bau beendet sein. Doch nach wie vor wird an unzahligen Stellen gebaut, wie hier, sudlich von Aachen. Panzermauern sind nicht fertig, ganze Bunkergruben noch nicht einmal ausgehoben. Und dann wiederum gibt es Stellen, an denen Panzerhindernisse und Stacheldrahtverhaue mindestens optisch ihre Funktion erfullen - wie hier in Rimschweiler. (Angespannte Musik) Todt hastet derweil von Baustelle zu Baustelle. Hitler kritisiert den schleppenden Ausbau. Fur ihn drangt die Zeit. Er braucht die Sicherheit an der Westgrenze, damit er im Osten Krieg fuhren kann. Der Westwall muss die Verbundeten Polens abschrecken. (Angespannte Musik) Der Umgang mit den Arbeitern in den Lagern wird rauer. Der Reichsarbeitsdienst behandelt sie nach den Regeln des Kommisses. Nach der Arbeit gibt es regelmassig lange Spatenappelle. Doch es gibt auch Widerstand: Wandschmierereien in den Lagern, Unmutsausserungen in den Kreisen der Kameraden. Das System reagiert gnadenlos. In der ersten Zeit gab's Verbot von Heimfahrten. Es war also untersagt, nach Hause zu fahren. Zur etwa zehn- bis zwolfstundigen Arbeitszeit pro Tag kam Wochenendarbeit. Und ... Der Konflikt entzundete sich da dran, als auf einmal auch noch Sonntagsschichten gefordert wurden. Da gab's im Saarland eine grosse Streikbewegung. In Saarbrucken, Merzig, St. Wendel gab es Tausende, die dagegen in den Ausstand traten. Die Gestapo errichtet wahrend des Baus Lager, um Unwillige, sogenannte &quot;Zoglinge&quot;, zu disziplinieren. Von diesen Lagern gibt es keine Filmaufnahmen, aber dies sind Aufnahmen des KZs Oranienburg. So etwa muss man sich das Lager Hinzert im Hunsruck vorstellen. Solange die &quot;Zoglinge&quot; im Lager sind, verlieren sie ihre Rechte. Immer mehr zeigt die Diktatur ihr wahres Gesicht. Wenn diese Zoglinge dann, es waren immerhin 75 Kilometer, zweimal 75 Kilometer Fahrstrecke von Hinzert bis Daun, dann nach etwa 14 Stunden ins Lager zuruckkamen nach Hinzert, wurden sie regelmassig kontrolliert. Ob sie Zigaretten oder Tabak bei sich hatten, weil das war strengstens verboten. Bei einer Uberprufung wurde bei 40 Prozent der Zoglinge Tabak gefunden. Die Strafen waren drakonisch. Die kamen dann zum Teil in den Bunker fur dieses Vergehen. (Dustere Musik) Erst nach dem Zweiten Weltkrieg entstanden Filmaufnahmen von Hinzert. Anfangs war das Lager noch &quot;Polizeihaftsonderlager zur Umerziehung von Westwallarbeitern&quot;. 1940 wurde Hinzert selbststandiges KZ. (Ernste Musik) 1939 geniessen die Menschen in Deutschland noch den schonen Sommer. Zunachst noch warm und schwul. Spater von Westen her leichte Abkuhlung. (Ruhige Musik) Auch im Sudwesten, in Heilbronn, flanieren die Deutschen in Uniform und Sonntagskleid. Die Ruhe vor dem Sturm. Bisher war Hitlers Kalkul ja aufgegangen. (Ruhige Musik) Im Jahr davor war die Wehrmacht in das sudetendeutsche Gebiet der Tschechoslowakei einmarschiert. Im Fruhjahr '39 hatte er den Rest dieses Landes besetzen lassen. Und keiner hatte ihn aufgehalten. Die Armeen der Westmachte waren in den Kasernen geblieben. Aber: Die Welt hatte das wahre Gesicht Hitlerdeutschlands gesehen. Jetzt - beim Uberfall auf Polen am 1. September 1939 - ist das anders. Frankreich und Grossbritannien erklaren Deutschland umgehend den Krieg. Der Zweite Weltkrieg beginnt. Nur ein Angriff der Alliierten im Westen kann die Polen jetzt retten. Fur Hitler lautet die entscheidende Frage erneut: Kann der Westwall die Westmachte von einem Angriff abhalten? Doch erst einmal mussen die Deutschen an der Westgrenze schnellstens weg, nach der prompten Kriegserklarung der Alliierten. Mehr als eine Million Menschen werden aus der Roten Zone evakuiert. Aus einem Streifen von 600 Kilometern Lange und funf Kilometern Breite. Von Basel bis Aachen. Viele sind vollig unvorbereitet. Meine Mutter hat immer gesagt: &quot;Du musst dir das vorher richten.&quot; &quot;Sonst nimmst du die unmoglichsten Sachen mit.&quot; Und wir hatten ja Landwirtschaft. Wir mussten ja vor allen Dingen das Vieh mitnehmen. Das war ja das Problem. Wir mussten ja ... Wir konnten ja nicht das Vieh zu Hause lassen, und die Leute gehen. Das geht ja nicht. Wir mussten das Vieh mitnehmen. Und Manner waren auch keine hier. Nicht immer verlauft die Evakuierung freiwillig. Mit Handkarren und Fuhrwerken geht es fur Mensch und Vieh nach Bayern, Franken, Thuringen oder Hessen. &quot;Westwall-Zigeuner&quot; heissen die Evakuierten im Reich. (Dustere Musik) Auch auf der anderen Seite, in Frankreich, wird die Bevolkerung evakuiert. 600.000 Elsasser und Lothringer. Die Deutschen reimen Schmahverse. &quot;Franzose&quot;, ich sage es jetzt im Dialekt, &quot;mit den roten Hosen, mit den schwarzen Finken, alle zusammen stinken.&quot; (Ernste Musik) In Urloffen zieht jetzt das Militar ein. Der Unterstand wird bewaffnet. Es wird ernst. (Ernste Musik) Die Soldaten, die hier durch Bad Bergzabern ziehen, sind keine Elitetruppen. Zum grossen Teil Veteranen des Ersten Weltkrieges. Sie kommen mit Pferden und veraltetem Material. Doch Hitler setzt ganz auf die psychologische Wirkung des Westwalls. Die jungen Soldaten, die braucht er im Osten, und auch die modernen Waffen. Im Dahner Felsenland schafft man Haubitzen auf die Buntsandsteinturme. Die Manner richten die Kanonen aus: Richtung Frankreich. (Spannungsvolle Musik) Und auch die Bunker werden jetzt besetzt. Soldaten ziehen ein, wie hier am Oberrhein. Doch die erleben ihr blaues Wunder. Die haben sich da unten gar nicht wohlgefuhlt. Die Bunker sind ziemlich schnell hochgezogen worden. Wie jeder Neubau, das hat getropft, das hat gearbeitet, vom Zement. Das war feucht. Die brauchten ja unten extra Entluftungsanlagen. Das heisst, die mussten nach soundso viel Stunden da unten ... wieder die Luft nach aussen schaffen. Weil die sassen da unten ... Mir hat einer gesagt, es war zum Teil wie in einer Sauna. Die haben sich draussen mit Tischen und Banken ... Das war ihr Leben dann. Aber im Bunker drin - Beengungs- gefuhle durfte man da nicht haben. Das war schon schlimm. Da war eine Gasschleuse, eine schwere Tur, die ging zu. Also, lustig war das nicht. Innen ist es nicht aushaltbar. Weil Wasser lauft von den Wanden. Bunker schwitzen aus. Wer jemals auf dem Bau gearbeitet hat, der weiss, wie lange Beton braucht, um abzubinden. Und diese Masse dauert Jahre. Und die Bunker sind ja gerade erst fertiggestellt worden. Also, die Manner sitzen da drin ab dem Uberfall auf Polen, 1939, September. Ich habe ja nun Monate im Winter in der Eifel verbracht, auf den Hohen. Das macht Sie fertig. Es ist kalt, unwirtlich. Drinnen wollen Sie nicht sein, draussen auch nicht. Die Realitat ist eben ganz anders. Die Frauen sagen dann ... Die sitzen im Kino, Kino ist der wichtigste mediale Ort, und kriegen da erzahlt, wie toll das ist. Die sagen: &quot;Das spiegelt sich in den Briefen meines Mannes nicht wider.&quot; &quot;Was ist da los?&quot; Und meine kleine Mullerin, ho-ho-ho! Wie gerne wurd ich bei dir sein, ho-ho-ho! Die &quot;Wochenschau&quot;, im Kino vor dem Hauptfilm, ist eben ein wichtiges Propagandainstrument, keine journalistische Nachrichtensendung. Die singenden Soldaten vermitteln: Es geht euren Mannern gut. Und die Aufnahmen vom Soldatenleben vor einem Bunker im Pfalzer Wald? Sie erinnern immer noch mehr an Zeltlager als an eine Armee im Kriegszustand. (Ruhige Musik) Dillingen im Saarland ist die Stadt mit den meisten erhaltenen Westwallanlagen. 165 Bauwerke standen im Raum Dillingen an der Hauptkampflinie: Bunker, Schartenstande, Batteriestellungen. Im Stadtpark stehen heute noch zwei Bunker unmittelbar nebeneinander. Die Einschusse stammen von schweren Kampfen, die im Winter 1944/'45 uber drei Wochen rund um die Stadt und ihren Bunkeranlagen tobten. (Ruhige Musik) Patrice Wijnands zeigt uns einen Kampfbunker, in dem zwolf Soldaten untergebracht waren. (Ruhige Musik) Die militarische Situation im September '39: Im Westen stehen nur 23 deutsche Divisionen 110 franzosischen und britischen gegenuber. Frankreich hat Polen versprochen, im Falle eines deutschen Angriffs im Osten innerhalb von zwei Wochen seinerseits Deutschland anzugreifen. Doch Frankreich und England zogern. Sie scheuen den Krieg aus Angst vor der befestigten Grenze. Den Soldaten in den Bunkern bleiben Kampfhandlungen zunachst erspart. Handwerker und Kunstler, die in einer Batterie des Westwalls als Kanoniere ihren Dienst verrichten, tun sich zusammen, um ihre Stellung moglichst wohnlich auszustatten. Der Unterstand als Wohnzimmer: Diese Botschaft vertreibt Gedanken an Granaten und Flammenwerfer, an Verwundung und Tod. (Stimmengewirr) Noch deutet nichts auf das Grauen in den Betonsargen des Westwalls am Ende des Krieges hin. Die Propaganda zeigt entspannte Soldaten. (Frohliche Musik) Die Fahrt auf dem Rhein bei Koblenz: Beim Kinobesucher soll der Eindruck bleiben, dass die Wacht am Rhein diesmal ein Wochenendausflug wird. Den Menschen stecken ja noch die Bilder an die martialische Menschenmuhle im Ersten Weltkrieg in den Kopfen. Gegen diese Erinnerung zeigt die &quot;Wochenschau&quot; Soldaten in der Sonne, unterhalb der Marksburg. Und jetzt: Soldaten sogar bei der Weinernte an der Mosel. Das ist alles nur moglich, weil es den Westwall gibt, so die Botschaft. (Lachen) Die Briten nennen das Bauwerk &quot;Siegfried-Line&quot;. Hier ist das ein Dauerthema. Ihnen sind die Bilder davon bekannt. Und die Angst vor einem Angriff auf diese Befestigungen ist gross und wird mit Schmahgesangen uberspielt. Das Wort &quot;Line&quot; steht im Englischen auch fur &quot;Wascheleine&quot;. Deshalb singen sie trotzig: &quot;Wir werden unsere Wasche an der Siegfried-Line aufhangen.&quot; &quot;Hast du irgendwelche Dreckwasche, liebe Mutter?&quot; &quot;Ob das Wetter gut oder schlecht sein mag: Wir werden unsere Wasche an der Siegfried-Line aufhangen.&quot; (Frohlicher Gesang auf Englisch) Bislang aber gab es keinen entscheidenden Angriff auf die Reichsgrenze. Die bizarre Situation heisst in Deutschland &quot;Sitzkrieg&quot;, in Frankreich &quot;Drole de Guerre&quot;. Wenn hier Krieg gefuhrt wird, dann ist es eine Propagandaschlacht. Was die Schreiberlinge der westeuropaischen Lugenpresse uber unseren Westwall fantasierten, ist nun in der franzosischen Befestigungslinie vielfach Wirklichkeit geworden. Die viel zu tief gelegenen franzo- sischen Bunker stehen unter Wasser. Das Hochwasser des Rheins hat die Besatzungen aus ihren Stellungen vertrieben. Aber auch auf der deutschen Seite stehen Bunker wahrend eines Hochwassers an der Saar unter Wasser. Wie hier bei Dillingen. Es gibt sogar Tote. Am Bruckenkopf bei Kehl am Rhein: Seit langer Zeit sind unsere Soldaten dabei, den Franzosen wahrheitsgetreue Berichte uber die Weltlage zu geben. Mit Luftballons werden franzosisch geschriebene Zeitungen und Broschuren in die gegnerischen Stellungen geschickt, damit die Poilus nicht nur der von englischen Kriegsprofitlern und Juden betriebenen Verhetzung ausgeliefert sind. (Frohliche Musik) Ein Morgengruss fur die andere Seite. Die immer gleichen Schlagworte hammern der Bevolkerung Feindbilder ins Hirn. Es ist ein Krieg der Worte, ein Kampf um die Deutungshoheit auf beiden Seiten. (Frohliche Blaskapellenmusik) Fast die ganzen Stellungen entlang ziehen sich Lautsprecher, mit denen Musikstucke und Nachrichten in die gegnerischen Linien ubertragen werden. Die Lage scheint aber nur entspannt. Frankreich wird nicht angreifen, das wird zunehmend klar. Aber Deutschland. (Frohliche Blaskapellenmusik) Frohliche Stimmung unter den Soldaten auf beiden Seiten. Doch die Spannung muss auf jeden Fall hochgehalten werden. Dafur sorgt die Propaganda. Dieser fast friedensmassige Zustand kann jedoch im nachsten Augenblick sein Ende finden. Um gegen alle Uberraschungen gewappnet zu sein, werden die deutschen Stellungen weit vor den Hauptlinien des Westwalls weiter ausgebaut. Die Rote Zone, an der Strasse bei Fischbach im Pfalzer Wald. Ein funf Kilometer breiter Streifen ist menschenleer. Die Bunker sind besetzt, die Ortschaften geraumt, die Bauernhofe verlassen. Da war kein Mensch mehr, nichts mehr. Und das Vieh, die Tiere ... die Tiere, die Kuhe und alles, die Hunde und die Katzen und alles, das ist wild da rumgelaufen. Und da hat sich nur in dem ... Da waren nur Patrouillen von den Franzosen, sind da rein. Und unsere, die haben praktisch nur immer geguckt, ob da was passiert. Die Spicherer Hohen bei Saarbrucken haben die Franzosen aus taktischen Grunden geraumt. Die Deutschen patrouillieren hier. Die meisten Soldaten stammen aus der Gegend. Einige schleichen sich zuruck in ihre leerstehenden Hauser. Da haben sie einen Treffpunkt gehabt. Sie treffen sich wieder an einer Stelle. Und der Mann ist nicht gekommen. Yes. Er hat eine Zeit lang gewartet. Und da war sein Kollege, der war auch daheim und hat Kaffee gekocht. Also sich selbst, sein eigener Kaffee, wollte etwas Gutes haben. Seinen Kaffee gekocht und hat Feuer gemacht. Und dadurch ist das Verhangnis gewesen. Da haben die Franzosen ihn entdeckt, eine Patrouille hat ihn entdeckt. Und haben ihn direkt gefasst, nach Metz und nach Paris geschafft. Und dort ist er zur Schau gestellt worden. Ganz ohne Verluste ist auch der sogenannte Sitzkrieg nicht. Dies sind Zerstorungen in Haltingen, einem Dorf im Markgraflerland. Die Nervositat steigt. Immer wieder kommt es jetzt zu Schusswechseln. Der Beginn des Uberfalls auf Frankreich ist nur noch eine Frage der Zeit. (Ernste Musik) Am 6. Oktober 1939 ist Polen besiegt. Jetzt kann Hitler seine Elitetruppen nach Westen schicken. Dies ist die 257. Infanteriedivision. Nach Kampfen bei Krakau wird sie uber Friedberg nach Enkenbach verlegt. (Spannungsvolle Musik, Glockenlauten) Die Rote Zone am Westwall wird in den nachsten Monaten zum Aufmarschgebiet fur den Uberfall auf Frankreich. Wo bisher nur alte Manner die Stellungen gesichert haben, ziehen jetzt junge Kampfverbande ein. (Ernste Musik) Erst jetzt sehen sie, dass hier noch gearbeitet wird. Die Franzosen beschiessen die Baustellen. Auch hier gibt es Tote. (Schusse) (Dustere Musik) Am 10. Mai 1940 befiehlt Adolf Hitler den Angriff auf Frankreich. Fur die Alliierten uberraschend. Die deutschen Truppen stossen aus dem Westwall heraus vor. Sie umgehen die gegenuberliegende Maginot-Linie im Norden. Greifen uber die neutralen Staaten Luxemburg, Belgien und die Niederlande an. Die Luxemburger, die seit den Bauarbeiten langst wissen, dass Krieg kommen wird, sind chancenlos. Die Luxemburger hatten keine Armee, die hatten ja nur Polizei. Die freiwillige Armee bestand so aus ein paar 100 Mann. Und, hier an den Grenzen oder wie hier an der Grenze, hier hatten wir ein paar, zwei Polizisten. Wir hatten ein paar Zollner und dann noch zwei oder drei Soldaten. Deutsche Panzer uberqueren die Ardennen und stossen weit nach Frankreich vor. Ein Blitzkrieg. Nach nur zwei Monaten kapituliert das Land. 60.000 Franzosen sterben. Es gibt zwei Millionen Gefangene. (Dustere Musik) Rund 340.000 alliierte Soldaten fliehen nach Dunkirchen und konnen von dort aus uber den Kanal evakuiert werden. Hitler reist nach Frankreichs Kapitulation von Strassburg aus durch den Sudwesten zuruck in die Reichshauptstadt. Er hat gegen Polen und Frankreich einen volkerrechtswidrigen Angriffskrieg gefuhrt und damit die Welt in den Zweiten Weltkrieg gesturzt. (Jubel) Es ist endgultig klar: Der Westwall war nie ein Friedenswall. Doch in Berlin wird der Diktator von Menschenmassen, von begeisterten Deutschen, mit Jubel empfangen. (Jubel, Glockenlauten) Und die evakuierten Menschen der Roten Zone? Die &quot;Westwall-Zigeuner&quot;? Drei Tage nach der Unterzeichnung des Waffenstillstands verfugt Hitler den Rucktransport der Bevolkerung. Niemand spricht in den Tagen der Euphorie von den psychischen Verwundungen der Vertriebenen. (Frohliche Blaskapellmusik) Und was geschieht mit den Grenzanlagen? Es scheint, als hatten sie ihre Schuldigkeit getan. (Ernste Musik, Klappern) Noch aber gibt es die Minenfelder, Stacheldrahtverhaue. Gefangene Franzosen und Zwangsarbeiter mussen sie beseitigen. Nach etlichen Monaten waren sie so zerlumpt und abgemagert - es war eine Katastrophe. Wie sagte unsere Mutter immer? &quot;Man konnte heulen, wenn man sieht, was mit diesen Menschen passiert.&quot; Sie war sehr, sehr kritisch. In allen Dingen. Und sie hat es dann fertiggebracht und stellte jeden Tag einen Eimer mit etwas Brot oder gekochten Kartoffeln im Eimer neben den Misthaufen. Da gingen die immer vorbei. Und der Hund hatte auch seine Hutte da, daneben. Aber die Kette war so lang, dass er nicht an den Eimer kam. Und das sah dann so aus, als ware das Futter fur den Hund bestimmt. Aber die Gefangenen, die Internierten sturzten sich auf das Futter drauf - es war nicht zu glauben. An der franzosischen Kuste beginnen Hitler und sein Helfer Todt mit dem Bau des Atlantikwalls. Wahrend am Westwall noch die Schutzengraben zugeschuttet und Unterstande abgebaut werden. Zwischen 1940 und '44 erlebte der Westwall einen Dornroschenschlaf. Hort sich zwar romantisch an, aber war so. Es gab dann ... Bunkerwarte. Also, die Bunker waren zum Teil Ausflugsziele. Da ist man am Sonntag hinmarschiert, die Bunker standen leer. Manche wurden, hab ich mir sagen lassen, als Lager benutzt. Im Prinzip wurden sie abgeschlossen. Die gesamte Innenausstattung der Bunker, fast alle Waffen, werden an den Atlantikwall gebracht. (Getragene Musik) 1942, Kanalkuste. Fritz Todt inspiziert Bauarbeiten am Atlantikwall. Am Westwall hatte Todt noch uberwiegend Deutsche arbeiten lassen. Hier sind es jetzt mehr und mehr Zwangsarbeiter, auch Kriegsgefangene. Das zeigen die &quot;Wochenschauen&quot; nicht. Sie inszenieren den Pforzheimer Bauingenieur Todt als ehrlichen Vorarbeiter. Immer wieder tritt Dr. Todt unter seine Arbeiter, um den besten zu danken und sie auszuzeichnen. Unter seiner Fuhrung wurden aus Reichsautobahnarbeitern Westwallarbeiter und aus diesen Frontarbeiter. Eine verschworene Gemeinschaft formte sich, die ihrem Dr. Todt auch in der Zukunft halt, was sie bisher mit ihrer Tat versprach. Ordensverleihung. Die gleiche Medaille wie am Westwall wird den Arbeitern umgehangt. Und auch hier wird sie von ihnen &quot;Lehmorden&quot; genannt. (Spannungsvolle Musik) Fritz Todt stirbt im Februar 1942. Bei einem Flugzeugabsturz in der Nahe des Fuhrerhauptquartiers Wolfsschanze. (Getragene Musik) 1944. In den Bunkern des Atlantikwalls warten die Deutschen auf die Invasion. (Krachen) (Pfeifen einer Bombe) Doch diese gigantische, mit Zehntausenden von Zwangsarbeitern gebaute Verteidigungsanlage halt am 6. Juni '44 gerade einmal bis zur Mittagszeit. Amerikanische Bauingenieure inspizieren die eroberten Bunker. Die GIs wissen, dass sie baugleich sind mit den Bunkern am Westwall. Und sie wissen auch, dass sie den Westwall, die &quot;Siegfried-Line&quot; noch uberwinden mussen. Fur die Deutschen in der roten Zone beginnt erneut die grosse Flucht. Wie hier bei Aachen. Ein Teil der Bewohner weigert sich, die Heimat zu verlassen. Andere suchen die Orte auf, in denen sie bereits 1939 gewesen waren. Jetzt erst wird der Westwall wirklich als Verteidigungsanlage gebraucht. Schutzengraben mussen wieder ausgehoben, Stacheldraht verlegt werden. Diese Arbeiten erledigen jetzt keine kraftigen jungen Manner mehr. sondern Kinder, Alte und Frauen und ein Aufgebot von Hunderttausenden von Zwangsarbeitern und Kriegsgefangenen. Die Alliierten rucken schnell naher an der Westgrenze. In den Schutzengraben und Bunkern wartet der Tod auf die Soldaten - auf die Kinder und Greise des Volkssturms. Denn viele der Bunkerturen und Scharten sind zu schwach fur die im Lauf des Krieges weiterentwickelten Geschosse. Der Westwall war eher ... der Anlass ... ein letztes Mal sich aufzubaumen, aber mit vollig ungeeigneten Mitteln, mit alten Mannern ... mit ein paar Kindern, die noch ein paarmal geschossen haben. Und er war auf der anderen Seite eben ... Veranlassung fur die amerikanischen Truppen, alles in Schutt und Asche zu legen. Also, mit Krieg im klassischen Sinne, dass sich Soldaten einander gegenuber standen, hat das nichts mehr zu tun gehabt. Dieser Westwall war militarisch ein totaler Flop. Jetzt fehlte das Personal, jetzt fehlte die Bewaffnung, jetzt fehlte alles. Er war ein potjomkinsches Dorf, also ... es ... Die wenige Besatzung eilte von einem Bunker zum anderen, gab hier ein paar Schusse ab, feuerte dort einen Ofen an, damit wenigstens Rauch aufgestiegen ist. Und hat ... aus dieser Kulisse heraus Theaterdonner veranstaltet, der immerhin einigen Eindruck auf die Angreifer machte. Im September '44 erreichen die ersten amerikanischen Truppen den Westwall. Und noch einmal wirkt der Mythos &quot;Siegfried-Line&quot;. Die Truppen der Alliierten halten an. Die Angst der GIs ist gross. Hinzu kommt das Wetter. Das ist in der Eifel so schlecht, dass General Patton die Feldgeistlichen bittet, fur besseres Wetter zu beten. Doch alles Beten hilft nicht. Die US-Divisionen geraten im Hurtgenwald in eine der verlustreichsten Schlachten der amerikanischen Militargeschichte. In den Baumen versteckte Scharfschutzen fordern einen hohen Blutzoll. Artilleriegranaten, die so eingestellt sind, dass sie in Baumwipfelhohe detonieren, sind todlich fur die Angreifer. (Explosionen) In wenigen Wochen sterben Zehntausende von Menschen oder werden verwundet. Der Vormarsch bleibt vier Monate lang stecken. Auch anderswo an der Westgrenze wird erbittert gekampft. Die Amerikaner durchbrechen hier bei Trier den Westwall. Aber auch hier sind die Verluste hoch. Von 600 Panzern sind nur noch 86 einsatzfahig. (Knistern) Hitler befiehlt eine Gegenoffensive in den Ardennen. Obwohl der Krieg langst verloren ist. Nach einem anfanglichen Erfolg scheitert auch diese letzte Offensive im Westen. Was folgt, sind weitere erbitterte Bunkerkampfe. Hemingway hat das in einem Beitrag fur Collier's, &quot;Krieg an der Siegfriedlinie&quot;, beschrieben. Wie ... die Amerikaner einen Panzerjager ranfuhren, uber so einen Bauweg, fragen dann die deutsche Besatzung drin, also rufen da hin mithilfe eines deutschen Gefangenen: &quot;Kommt raus, ergebt euch!&quot; Machen die nicht. Und dann schiessen sie ... vor die Tur. So, das ist naturlich eine unglaubliche ... Wenn da eine panzerbrechende Granate draufkommt, das ist eine unglaubliche Wucht. Das fuhrt dazu, dass die Besatzer getotet werden. Oder zumindest schwer verwundet werden. Und damit rollen die eine ganze Bunkerlinie auf. Manchmal hat man auch ... die ... Bunkerbesatzungen beerdigt. Man ist mit einem Bulldozer hingefahren ... Es gab gepanzerte Bulldozer in der US Army, weil man die brauchte vorne. Es gibt ja die Hockerlinie, so. Kampfwagenhindernislinie. Da sind die Amerikaner einfach mit dem Bulldozer hin und haben Erde drubergemacht - dann war das Ding ausser Gefecht. Und mit diesem Bulldozer hat man dann eben auch, wenn die Bunkerbesatzungen immer noch Widerstand geleistet haben, die Schiessscharten zugeschoben. (Unheimliche Musik) Doch erst im Fruhjahr '45 gelingt es den alliierten Truppen, den Widerstand der Deutschen zu brechen. Ein halbes Jahr lang sind sie an den Bunkern des Westwalls aufgehalten worden, gab es sinnlose Opfer. Der Westwall hat den verlorenen Krieg unnotig verlangert. Und im Reichsgebiet sind Zehntausende wahrenddessen gestorben. Ermordet in Konzentrationslagern, von Bomben zerfetzt. Jetzt erst konnen die Truppen weiter nach Osten vorstossen. (Schusse) Weiter sudlich, an der deutsch-franzosischen Grenze, in der Sudpfalz, wird immer noch gekampft. Kurt Becks Heimatort Steinfeld wird vollig zerstort. (Schusse) Leute, die kaum noch krabbeln konnten, und ein paar junge Leute, die ideologisiert waren, die haben dann ein paarmal geschossen. Und die Amerikaner haben halt geantwortet mit Sturmartillerie, dann ist halt der Rest in Flammen aufgegangen oder halt in Schutt gefallen. (Schusse) Erst Mitte Marz '45 durchbrechen auch in der Pfalz die amerikanischen Truppen den Westwall. Das sogenannte &quot;Tausendjahrige Reich&quot; besteht nur noch wenige Wochen. (Unheimliche Musik) Es hinterlasst ein zerstortes Europa ... und den Tod. Naturlich gab es Rache. Das war ja klar. Und da gab es dann mehrere Vorfalle, wo Jugendliche ... mit Panzerfausten nach Deutschland geschossen haben. Die Waffen lagen ja so rum wie ... wie heute Beeren oder so, ne. Und die haben effektiv dann mit Panzerfausten einfach so ... willkurlich rubergeschossen. (Nachdenkliche Musik) Bei Speyer uberquert General de Gaulle den Rhein. Auf einer behelfsmassigen Pontonbrucke. Winston Churchill geht buchstablich durch den Westwall, uberwindet die &quot;Siegfried-Line&quot; zu Fuss. Er schreibt spater in seinen Memoiren, dass es Frankreich und Grossbritannien 1938/'39 an Mut hatten fehlen lassen, Hitler im Westen anzugreifen. In dieser Zeit habe man die Chance auf dauerhaften Frieden verspielt. Aber die Angst vor der &quot;Siegfried-Line&quot; war zu gross. (Nachdenkliche Musik) Am Ende des Zweiten Weltkrieges existierten offiziell 20.099 Bunker am Westwall. Gebaut, missbraucht, zerstort. Als der Krieg zu Ende war, haben die Einwohner ... sich Sachen geholt im Bunker. Verpflegung und alles Mogliche, Gerate. Ich hab zum Beispiel ... weil ja mein Elternhaus durch Kriegsschaden schwer beschadigt war, hab ich an den Bunkern in der Meisenheimer Gemarkung die Innenturen, die Bleche weggemeisselt. Das waren 84 Nieten. Mit Hammer und Meissel im Finsteren. Und hab dann die Bleche zu Hause ... mit Kupferdraht die Locher zugenietet. Und hab die Bleche aufs Dach gemacht. Die Bleche sind heute noch im Bau. Europa loscht die Spuren des Krieges. Die Befestigungsanlagen des Westwalls werden vernichtet. Die massiven Bunker der Siegfriedlinie, die bis zum Beginn der Invasion in der Normandie als uneinnehmbar galten: ein Trummerhaufen. Da sind Brocken von hier in unser Dach reingeflogen. Wir mussten jedes Mal in den Keller, wenn die am Sprengen waren. In Bauler sogar ... ist ein Mann nicht in den Keller gegangen. Der war ein Schmied. Und da kamen Brocken durch die Decke durch, und der ist am Amboss getroffen worden und fiel tot um. Taglich werden bis zu 40 Bunker gesprengt. Die Alliierten befehlen die Beseitigung der Bunker. Die &quot;Siegfried-Line&quot; soll nie mehr einen deutschen Angriff decken. Entnazifizierung durch Sprengen. Doch die Bunker sind voller Panzerfauste, Handgranaten, Gewehre, Munition. Ein gefahrlicher Abenteuerspielplatz. Immer wieder mussen Eltern die toten Leiber ihrer Kinder aus Bunkern und Graben bergen. Sie hatten mit Munition gespielt. (Gefuhlvolle Musik) (Kinderlachen) Auch heute noch spielen Kinder an den Ruinen des Westwalls. (Gefuhlvolle Musik) Panzerkuppeln auf dem Gelande eines Kindergartens in St. Ingbert im Saarland. (Gefuhlvolle Musik) (Vogelzwitschern) Drachenzahne im Wald. Heute sind die Ruinen, Bunker und Graben des Westwalls Heimat fur zahlreiche geschutzte Arten. (Sanfte Musik, Vogelzwitschern) Wir wollen naturlich auch das, was zwischenzeitlich an Natur dort entstanden ist, lebendig halten. Also, diese okologische Komponente, die hat was Versohnendes, wie ich finde. Denn in diesen Bereichen gibt es heute eine unglaublich reiche Fauna und Flora. Ein gruner Mantel hat es aber auch moglich gemacht, den Westwall uber viele Jahrzehnte totzuschweigen. Immer noch steckt der Mythos in den Kopfen. Der vom Friedenswall, von der unuberwindlichen Schutzmauer. Erst nach langer Aufarbeitung ist es wirklich moglich, die Anlage als das zu sehen, was sie war: ein gigantisches Bauprojekt. Die Absicherung fur einen Angriffskrieg. Und eine blutige Mauer am Ende. Heute stehen die Uberbleibsel unter Denkmalschutz. Entlang der Grenze gibt es Naturschonheit, Wanderwege und Museen. Der Westwall: ein gruner Wall, aber auch ein Mahnmal fur den Frieden. Man kann miteinander leben, miteinander auskommen, miteinander reden. Man kann Dinge ausdiskutieren. Das haben wir in der EU ein halbes Jahrhundert geschafft. Und jetzt erleben wir, dass da Krafte am Werken sind, um das teilweise zuruckzudrehen. Das ist unsinnig. Genau diese Hocker zeigen, dass man Grenzen uberwinden kann. Es kostet Muhe. Man muss da dranbleiben. Aber es geht, und der Nutzen davon, der ist fur alle gut. (Sanfte Musik, Vogelzwitschern) SWR 2019