Are you someone who makes random moves in Are you tired of making those long calculations, I guess you are looking for some tips to find If you answered yes, then this is the video So make sure you watch this till the end because And of course, I have a brilliant chess puzzle So stay tuned till the end and keep watching I am sure most of you feel that chess is a so much of thinking. You are already trying to find too many answers what is the best Move that I can play, am should I defend, different strategies, tactics, Huh. So many questions you have. But Hold on, are these the right questions Well, that's what we are going to focus on In this chess masterclass, I am going to share and I can guarantee that If you follow this can easily take your game to the next level. Okay, so what are these 5 steps? It is the very popular SWOT analysis + one of this video. As most of you already know, SWOT analysis and threats. How will we apply all this to Chess? Well, I will explain that through different me and this will be well worth your time. Okay, so let's say, in this position, you How will you evaluate this move? What should be the correct questions you should When we are talking about your move, 2 basic What are the strengths of this move &amp; what move? So let's analyse the strengths first. What will this move achieve? Let's take a look. If you play this move, you can control these Right? You are consolidating the center by adding Another good thing is that you are opening help in developing it later on. Those are the strengths that we can see. Now let's look at the potential weaknesses. When we talk about weaknesses, you need to So this is how it is at the moment &amp; this What's the difference? Does this move create any weaknesses? The obvious one is that you will lose control Also, this knight becomes undefended, which Plus, this diagonal is also getting blocked, And you can also say that your king is getting for potential checks &amp; pins on this diagonal.Now another move. Let's say, you are also thinking of playing Same thought process. Strengths First. What does this move achieve? It provides additional support to your knight. It provides support to your rook as well, It develops your bishop on this long diagonal. Any time you can launch an attack on the center Okay, now lets find the weaknesses: What will The only thing I can think of is that this some other pieces guarding it so it shouldn't Another one is that this bishop will be undefended threats as such, so thats also fine. Okay, now we have all the basic information moves. What do you think? Which is a better move - pawn to d3 or bishop You can answer it in this poll by clicking I would think this should be an easy one. But still, let me know in this poll. Look, there are always going to be some strengths Your objective should be to gather as much for evaluating your moves. As you saw, we did not perform any calculations, Our focus was mainly on the move at hand &amp; that's If you have this basic information, it becomes should play a move or not? Anyways, let's go a step further. Now we will see how to analyse your opponent's oppurtunities &amp; threats. Let's take a look at this game. The material is even, it's your opponent's Just like we did earlier, we need to think opponent's move. So what are it's strengths? What is this knight e4 move doing? Think along with me. He is centralizing his knight so that's good It's well protected. You do not have any pawns to attack it so This knight is now attacking these 8 squares. And out of all these, we need to be particularly at the moment, we have them well-covered. Also, if you notice, by moving this knight, making it a more active piece. Let's do a final check. Are there any immediate captures or attacks His knight can capture this pawn, but it is He can take this knight, but that is also So you can safely say that there are some maybe, but there are no immediate threats For that, we need to find the weaknesses of Has he left behind any holes in his position? Let's find out. Compare and evaluate. Earlier, his knight was guarding these 8 squares. He is not doing that anymore. So can you find an opportunity here? I guess you found it already. Knight to d7. Forking the queen and rook. By following this structured process of thinking, in a game. That's the power of this approach. It might seem that we are spending too much doing this consistently, it will become a You won't make any blunders and that's a big Anyways, let's go a step further and look But before that, I wanted to give you a quick The good news is that we have now added a a month, which is like even less than a dollar. So if you want to become a member or even you can check it out by clicking on the Join Okay, coming back to the game, in this position, your knight. Again, let's follow the same thought process. What are the threats here? The obvious one is that he is threatening And I have seen many players make a big mistake As soon as they see any of their pieces being of defending it. They don't analyse any further and that's You need to stick to the same process. This is just one of the immediate threats. Have you even thought about the opportunities Is there any weakness that black has left Let's compare and evaluate! He has weakened his control over these 2 squares, Another point is that this move might result open center, And considering this black king good for black. Okay, What else? Can you see this pawn? As a result of this move, this pawn is now Can we launch an attack on this undefended Of course, we can. Our bishop is attacking this diagonal. So we can simply gobble up this pawn &amp; on take your knight. Instead we take his rook first. This brings us to our fifth step, which is And that is, to always look for opportunities, It's all about positive thinking. Before reacting to anything, just ask yourself Is it even necessary to react to this?&quot; That's an important question to ask. Not only on chess, but even in life. Anyways, I hope you are enjoying this video. If you are, then hit that thumbs up button It really motivates me to provide more quality Okay, let's look at another example. In this position, black plays pawn to f6, Following the same thought process again. Just like the last example, the immediate Now comparing it to the previous position, these 2 squares so they are relatively weak. His king is also slightly exposed along this We have the basic information now. So can you think of any way to ignore this I must remind that you need to be extremely If you play a random forcing move like bishop black can simply block with his pawn and now So if you are ignoring a threat, then you need double check before taking any risks. Okay, so It's puzzle time. But before moving onto today's chess puzzle, learn some cool chess tricks and become a to our channel right now. And don't forget to hit the bell to turn on Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, don't forget to Like this video &amp; if you haven't yet Subscribed, then Subscribe now. Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my