There are trillions of microbes inside you They're a whole complicated community, called Scientists are starting to realize that your health, and that's changing the way that prescribing antibiotics to managing IBS. It's kind of obvious that the microbes living needs and gastrointestinal health. I mean, they're a big part of the digestive It just makes sense. But what might not be so obvious is that the Biologists used to think that was impossible, They're discovering all kinds of connections, of your intestines to how the microbiome affects Your guts might have such a big influence millions of dollars into understanding what By learning more about this connection, scientists health -- and maybe even develop some new We've known for a long time that your gut For years, researchers have been studying dynamic relationship with the central nervous The ENS is a massive web spread over your It's made up of more than 500 million neurons This "second brain", as it's sometimes take care of most of its job by itself. But it is connected to your central nervous an information superhighway between your gut We also knew that stress could affect digestion, troubles during a stressful week? Despite this connection, for a while, scientists affect your brain because of the blood-brain Your brain's blood vessels are structured a way that keeps your brain's immune system The blood-brain barrier's really important, on your skin, which aren't usually life-threatening, So your brain is structured to keep infections It's hard for almost anything, including in cases of serious injury or illness, so pretty much ignore the microbiome. Even though there's a lot of cross-talk mostly assumed that microbes didn't play But more recent breakthroughs are challenging of how the blood-brain barrier works. Because we're learning that your microbiome Early research starting in the 1970s showed found in the guts of mice. One group found that stressing out mice by to have more coliform bacteria, like E. coli, lactobacilli, in their intestines. Another group found that the stress of dealing in the populations of other kinds of bacteria. But even though it was clear that stress could it wasn't clear if it was a two-way relationship. Could gut microbes be affecting psychological The first big breakthrough on this question University in Japan discovered that exposure effects on brain chemical levels. For the study, the scientists used germfree and immediately placed in a super clean cage, at all. Compared to specific pathogen free mice -- that of microbes -- the germfree mice got a lot So it seemed like something about the bacteria levels in check. The team found that the brains of the germfree neurotrophic factor, or BDNF. BDNF is important for learning, memory, and had less of it in the brain regions that determine It's not clear how, exactly, microbes could pretty sure they can't cross the blood-brain But something about the presence of bacteria that leads directly to changes in brain chemistry. The results of that study kicked off a bunch the relationship between the microbiome and Some research from the early 2010s found that, by certain kinds of acute stress, like restraint, stress -- like being placed in a new environment. So it seems like the relationship between Mice without a microbiome aren't always Other studies have looked into what happens -- like whether their behavior changes, or genes in the brain. For example, in a study from 2011, one group mice to the microbiomes of other mice could Like, a shy germfree mouse might do more exploring adventurous mouse. Which is just weird. And the behavioral changes corresponded to that the microbiome transplant had direct So it's clear that the connection is there. The microbiome does affect the brain. And now, all kinds of scientists are investigating They've started to learn a lot about how of specific chemical messengers in your body The microbes in your guts produce a whole And somehow, despite the blood-brain barrier, Take serotonin, for example. It's a critical messenger in your brain, That's why a lot of the drugs prescribed signaling in the brain. But it turns out that the majority of your Up to 80% of it is made in your gut, and the serotonin is produced. So changes in the numbers of microbes that overall levels of serotonin in your body, Even when they aren't producing important from the immune system, and the immune response See, the microbiome can affect the production by immune system cells. And some of those proteins, like one called Researchers have also discovered that microbes of the blood-brain barrier, like making it which can affect what's allowed in and out But even as scientists are picking out individual see the big picture yet. The germfree mice studies have been important them to humans, because ... mice aren't There's really no situation where a human But these studies do show that the microbiome still useful because they give researchers the mice are or aren't exposed to. There's not a whole lot of research that the gut and brain in humans, though. These discoveries are so new that no one's humans yet. But small studies have tried treating volunteers new microbes to their guts, as well as prebiotics, good bacteria. And the microbes and fiber affected the subjects' So there might be a relationship between your Although the studies haven't been able to and probiotics are doing to the microbes in into changes in mood. So in the future, researchers will be getting and trying to figure out if their discoveries Other scientists are working on humanizing the microbiomes of the mice more human-like. They do this by taking fecal transplants from them into mice to study the effects. That kind of experiment can let researchers connect with changes in mental health. And they can get right into the brains of using dissected tissue to look directly at Some researchers are also trying to figure our brains, and how we can tailor our microbiomes Others are starting to ask questions about like antibiotic treatments, could be affecting So there's still a lot we don't know about But there are a ton of new studies in the that as our knowledge of the microbiome-gut-brain -- and hopefully improve some lives along Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow. If you're as fascinated by this microbiome learn more about how your microbiome affects