My name is Megan. I live in Ann Arbor, And in 2017 March, I was diagnosed with stage three Prior to my diagnosis, I had a love The love for cooking But being sick caused me to not to the same capacity I have an Instagram page that I have because I love to cook. I love to travel. My husband for ten years and I noticed a mole well before it was discovered but I found a mole that was a That was a little funny The coloring was off and I I'm sure it's fine. I didn't really pay too And I also was finances, you know, appointments, health We were kind of And, so looking back and this is what I tell people, ask me about your health insurance if you ever have anything of to get checked. But in 2017, I had had the mole for I needed to get myself doctor So I went to a primary care doctor and also to And my primary care said, this doesn't look got me in a to an appointment I had a dermatologist appointment which is really hard but they got me So I went to a derm. It's a dermatologist, I was at this time in Portland, Maine, and I went to the dermatologist They know, they know And then they take some pieces off of, you know, they send it off And the nurse and I were chit chatting during this just be like, you know, This is routine. Worst case, worst case. It goes to your lymph So okay, no big deal. Let's and get it over with. So I, got that done. And then I, you know, I, was at work and I got a call from my dermatologist this is something very suspicious, I want you to, you know, get this checked out he was going to put me with people at Maine And I immediately and, my mom of an oncologist General Hospital So as you know, that my family knew we'll go this route. And so, I connected with Mass luckily got immediately, and met with who gave me a look, looked at the biopsy, looked at my back, We're going to do to make sure So you're going to you'll have surgery. I'll clear the margins so that it's all, it's clear around that area. And then we're going In and cancer So what you do you're going and then we're going to take you into surgery. We'll And then where we find could be meaning that and where could indicate So I went through that You know, it's And you're you know, what's happening, The dye on my right armpit down And so it lit up in a lot of spots And they did the injections in my back near the, near So, they took out most of my lymph nodes And then after that, they tell you, you'll be back at work And truthfully, when you when you get a pretty much almost pretty painful. And it takes a little next steps, they said, is, we'll get the results you know, then and then if needed, And so the, in the next like I went back into the, my doctor and, they let me know that I had a lymph node test positive for melanoma and that next steps a CT scan, Melanoma will spread It goes everywhere. Everywhere. It can go everywhere. So you really have to get fully checked So we, I was with my mom, and My mom flew in from from, Michigan, And, we went downstairs and we just kind of all and at the cafe and And then we're going We're going It's going to be I move forward, got went back to Boston where I learned getting a brain MRI. They allowed my husband No where I have my husband been allowed getting an MRI. I don't know why but it was great. Because I couldn't through it My scans showed, luckily, that it hadn't so then it was to what type of treatment What do we do? And when I went to the, my surgical oncologist, and, you know, transferred me over you know, And he said he wanted which was kind of getting to be for melanoma and not as it could be for what you go through So what I did is talking to my mom My mom's very thorough we have to get a second Let's go to because that's my family's and they reviewed and they suggested which would mean, see regular ultrasound of the, of my armpit And, other tests And, and coming every six months to and that would be from at that same time, I did genetic testing gone through that, breast it was still was doing But I did get, that genetic testing done, for a check And what that means is for thyroid cancer, breast cancer, and And so then the idea was when I came to University that I would also just get my thyroid and that I would get, breast, MRI and mammogram, and then a colonoscopy So my life just kind of catapulted you know, kind of. Okay, okay, I got it, But it's it. You never go back Like you never You don't feel carefree in life after, like, but you do after of diagnosis. It's And I'm sure that, other So then the idea was, Whatever I have, will be found early. We decided to move to we moved in the and, the I felt fine, like we got a new bed and it was a purple and the purple mattress comes in a package and, you know, You open it, And I would people rave about these this bed hurts my back. I wasn't terrible was different. So I ignored it know, I'm screened for all sorts not worrying about it. even dawn on me at all And then January. And so it was 20, 22. I was scrolling and I find, they have different oh, do these stretches or you'll feel better. So, you know, these ads you in. So I saw this, you open up your hips And I'm like, You know, life's stress And, we weren't really thrilled with our move. We were ready go back up to Maine, actually, because and, then eventually So I wanted to get back to where my, And, we just thought, We we've tried to, for a year, but, My husband and I, Without kids. We've always just like that. So I, I'm just I'm like, You know, this you know, I'm So I do this stretches and then within it's like, wow. Something doesn't I thought, oh, I just stretched those stretches? It just really I just chalked moving my body because I had played tennis, we had at our we had tennis courts and know like I had no issues That stretch. So I blame That stretch But then it just became more painful of my leg. And that's pain. Just, I just I'd be and whatever I could, And, I did my regular screenings I mentioned, in my leg, like, Your pains. It's like shooting down Oh. There's sciatica. You know, You, you know, you go to that, you know, orthopedic doctors, Well, you know, So I, I had pain I talked to registered it's sciatica or something that needs to help it. So it got really bad. I went to the doctor, and he would say, oh, then this way And you know what It didn't align someone would go in. Typically with the hip issue it just But he said, prescribe me, and said you start PT, it was not helping. I got really bad. I transferred It the pain was The only thing that would really help and then the I was, I tried and nothing Early May, the doctor said this because what doesn't we would see normally. So he ordered And in Florida And I did the spine MRI came back with some they called it They didn't call it a tumor or anything, There was a few areas that they recommended you know, So I reached out in Michigan at U of M, this is what cyst And they said, yeah, I sent that to them, And they said, we need for a Pet scan. We want you to do it locally here Because then they can they can read it you know, can do and really see it and how to do it, And I said, okay, so this was mid-May And, we had decided we were going to move move back to Portland. And so we had begun We had an apartment everything. So I fly to Michigan and then I get a Pet But I get here barely on my leg It's it's it's just an excruciating amount of pain It's like I'd It was. And so I was in It went up to my lower So it was my side. It was my hip, my back, nobody, or anybody ever would but that cancer it's just interesting So I get my Pet done, and now, mind you, is going to hurt still and lay down So I'm in pain. So I'm, I'm, I'm, you know, at home because that's And then, and working needed to work, and my doctor's office calls and they have and then they read off my nurse who I've been working read off to me The results were in you know, downstairs My husband with our dog, and, She just she said, I mean, she listed, my femur, so what that pain was, was a lesion in my femur And that's why And then, talking being my and, I don't know, like I've always said I don't need Like I don't need and be overwhelmed about Just tell me and and My husband then it's all like Like, let's make sure I made appointments The radiation with the doctor that could potentially with my oncologist with So and then more tests So, I immediately It was so dire that and I had a team that was very able to right away and get So we met with and doing surgery, you know, even with hopefully your femur But, I recommend So surgery is putting in hardware, so that my bone doesn't Going I didn't know, like, what's I've never, you know, had major surgery or had any implants or rods or anything So I just, just, I was just positive and so we did the surgery went really well, but it's very painful The pain. So your recovery, you can't shower So you have to do body I was with a walker had gotten too hard going to be better. Like after the surgery And then about, a week to two when I got, brain because they needed to specifically find and such and how are they So then I got, closer to two hour MRI and I don't know I did not have enough because I didn't know going to be two hours, and I'm claustrophobic, because I had just, had the surgery, I got through it. And then we, met and then the plan to be immunotherapy and radiation. The radiation my hip area, my lower and I was going to be So what I mean by on a table. I'm talking plastic. You know, shrink They fitted me for it, then they get in it, and then they push the button and it shrinks because to get into and for what I had that's And then the other part of treatment was going to be which would be done I wasn't going it was just going in I'm sorry. Immunotherapy, was once a month. And what a day of getting then meeting to get results, based that your, body to accept the drugs. And then, do, immunotherapy for a few hours. The plan was to go on it as long as I could, And that, I also forgot to I started having, pancreas my issues. My pancreas was upset, which was a side effect So I went on I went on steroids and I did that. And it helped. But but then my they stopped my because I got good Then in October it was time for my next And, so And I had not one, but and that in the top that were painful And I was like, You know, it's just like, this is what's Here we go again. we will do radiation. We're not going to We're not going to do surgery, And then, that should fix it. And I was like, great. Like, I love radiation. Meanwhile, on my left so much scar tissue, and time spent on my hip So my joint that allows you have full flexibility It's tight. And so I don't have So I had started to, alleviate the side, it looks like a shark at me because the muscle, got so, so, so So I've been and it's, Then what happened my left side my right leg is shorter by a good few inches. And then I got a and so I then So this is just side effects I like the radiation and, you know, So it was carrying with my right side. So my right side has been carrying And so I've been amped out my whole body I have a lift in my because of the height And so it's only now been empty, in a really great I had a spine MRI over the summer that showed that could potentially My doctor Let's just start I have a great doctor. She's amazing, And, so I started She changed, So I'm doing great now. I'm. Meaning, taking My pancreas You know, there's there's the side crappy and sitting and standing and muscle discomfort, It's it's come so far, and I really feel like the immunotherapy the goal is to be on It's thankfully immunotherapy that I'm alive and that So with this treatment So I have a lot to be And I've reconnected with friends, my college friends, because I went to I'm closer to my family So I have And so I am blessed, want to It's really not it's not okay. It's very scary. It's very deadly. And it's important that they see for things even if their primary To do a skin check doesn't have to be for getting your skin You know when you go to your and just wearing sunscreen of yourself, in one instant the skin go everywhere. So that's Really share if this is serious it's not talked about it it I follow on Instagram of people and people suffer from it. But to have mentally to take Okay. I can't stress That's so hard to do,