- [Narrator] Few lives were less ordinary than that of Diana Princess of Wales. (gentle music) but was denied her destiny to be queen. Beautiful, but tragically fated, her legacy will prove greater she will be a queen in people's hearts. After her divorce and rejection Diana discarded the gowns that had once enhanced her position as Princess of Wales and future queen. Unwanted reminders of an unhappy past, their dispersal marked the she was starting a new independent life. Each dress held the aura of her glamor, her allure and her unforgettable style. Diana's magic had a value of its own. Two months before her death, 79 of her dresses were auctioned by Christie's in New York, for charity. Each dress tells a story of love and loss. Lot 35, a Scarlet lace cocktail dress worn just after her famous Lot 66, a glamorous dinner at Versailles in 1994, her after withdrawing from public Lot 55, a midnight blue silk Crip gown, worn in New York in 1996 for divorce from Prince Charles. Lot 11, a blue and white in 1995, when she traveled the globe as a semi-detached royal. The sale raised millions for charity. Disenchanted with the Diana increasingly turned to America, which serenaded her, as did Tony Bennett, as its adopted princess. (upbeat music) And when chat show host Phil Donahue danced with her in Chicago in 1996, millions of Americans would With her elegance, grace and charm, Diana had replaced Jackie Kennedy as America's uncrowned queen. And when statesman Henry Kissinger so did an entire nation. - I think she loved the although she also found it because perhaps the British reserve, even though everybody adored her here, there was still that sort In America, she was But she adored them because - [Narrator] In 1995, with the Humanitarian of the Year Award, no other British royal had - She was tremendously fond adored sitting next to him at dinner, they got on like a house on fire. Ladies such as Elizabeth Dole she said she had such a You see, this is the thing somebody who could not or shy of her, but somebody who could sort of just connect with her. - [Narrator] The humanitarian for Diana against the who considered her a show girl. - I want to say a sincere for this award. It is humbling to receive it, and to know that some of feel that I should be honored in this way. - [Narrator] General Colin Powell and media star Barbara Walters, were among America's great and good, who recognized Diana's potential as a remarkable Envoy for her country. - She was both enormously interesting to, and a very good ambassador for us to what one might call the glittering world of parts of the United States. She was a very visible representative in the fashion world there and also at the higher levels of politics. She obviously connected very well with President and Mrs. Clinton. But at the other end of the scale, and perhaps most importantly, she was an extraordinary ambassador for us to the third world, what we used to call the third world, to people in countries who were suffering from one thing or another, which she identified with at home, but what she picked up very Whether again it was AIDS in Africa or the plight of children who she visited with Mother Teresa in India, or the whole landmines issue, in identifying and drawing attention to something which governments have been talking about for a long time. But no one in general has - [Narrator] Mother Teresa of Calcutta was Diana's guiding light the sick and the dispossessed. In June 1997, the tall young princess visited the elderly frail nun in New York. Who would have guessed they would die within days of each other. Actress Joan Collins Diana was a true humanitarian. Now that Mother Teresa is There is no one, we have lost (camera shutter clicking) Another continent, a different culture. To support suffers of the whole world, Diana traveled with her friend Jemima Khan to Pakistan, to help raise funds cancer hospital in Lahore. (uplifting music) Against home criticism that such visits had a political edge, Diana and compassion that distinguished her from the more aloof and Diana used touch to with those in pain, she created giving hope and comfort, Her fervent speeches brought to the hospitals and care centers for otherwise forgotten victims. - This is the only private that treats 80% of its patients free. - [Narrator] Diana once said, &quot;Nothing gives me more happiness than trying to help the most it's the goal and an a kind of destiny.&quot; - She had the most incredible and she was not afraid of And the other thing was about Diana was that she felt particularly that it was very honest left to lose, and so so that she could really talk to them. And there was this incredible that perhaps was lacking at more formal occasions. - [Narrator] But formality and protocol were everything to the House of Windsor. As mother to William and Diana had to prepare her Victory in Japan was One of several occasions when her boys had to appear in public Harry, nearly 10 found it but he looked for guidance to William, 13, had already learned to cope with pomp and ceremony. Two years later, he was shattered Her death would change him forever. - He has become a very strong young man. He was always strong, much who is rather weak and who for things that go wrong in his life. William was strong of perhaps even a bit willful. Since his mother died, and to look after, to oversee, which he wears very well. I mean, he happens to be tall and he's a good looking but he changed in becoming in taking control in a And he was crucial of - [Narrator] Within days William started senior His parents chose Eton for and to Windsor Castle. Charles refused to send Gordonstoun, where he himself had been very unhappy as a student. Eton had educated generations including her father and brother, but she still sought William's approval before sending him there. - She treated him like a grownup, which is what every teenager wanted. She'd ask his advice, &quot;Well, William, `what do you think about this? Should I do this or shouldn't I?&quot; Now that is very flattering, and she didn't tell him what to do. I mean, Prince Charles I've heard this for several years now that whenever they decide that or do something, or there's they say, &quot;Well we were what do you think, William?&quot; They also ask Harry, and - [Narrator] Diana identified in William personal qualities that his father lacked. She actively groomed her As he grew up, William to his mother. - She did drop an incredible on William's very slim, young shoulders. He was barely 10 years old how she felt in front of him. And I think as a result, he's much more mature But that's also perhaps that lies ahead of him, the monarchy. And when you're 15, you or a nuclear physicist, you don't want your Kids of that age want to feel free. All their school friends are talking about I'm gonna backpack around and he doesn't have that choice. It's very sad, I've heard prince Charles talk about how awful it mapped out for you. And I know William's a very sensitive boy, and he'll have absorbed a lot of that and think, &quot;Oh, I've got sitting around waiting so I can become king. - [Narrator] The ancient of Eton will shape both of Diana's boys for the challenges of a William will be Harry's protector. - At Eton, well, William William will really look after him and make sure that as a he'll be well taken care of. - [Narrator] Despite the like Lord and Lady Romsey, members of Prince Charles' inner circle, there are still fears that Diana's death could affect William so greatly that he may not want to be king. - Whether William, given might say in the next few People don't seem to want us anymore, we're going into Europe, It would be very human and if he said, &quot;I don't - [Narrator] Diana instilled in her sons an understanding of the traditions into which they were born. Constant examples of duty and by the queen and the queen mother. - The queen's always played with William, and Diana very well with his grandmother, and she was delighted about that. And for the past few years, the queen has been having because he just has to go So he'll go around to Windsor and when he walks in the and they sit down and they And she tells him what she's And he tells her. Now this is a tradition that the monarch passes down through the And there was a time when when So she's delighted to (bright music) - [Narrator] William's in March 1997 was the last of the Wales family Diana and Charles had for the sake of their children, who had suffered from their By this time, Diana had the bitterness of the past and had forged a new friendship With her generous divorce settlement, Diana was seeking a new independent life. She felt relaxed enough at Williams' speech day in May 1997. They would never be seen South of France, summer 1997, Mohammed Al Fayed, owner and the Ritz Hotel in Paris, invited Diana and her boys to holiday at his magnificent mansion. Here, she fell in love with - Diana would have never married Dodi without the consent of the two children, and Prince William more than that, because she always said was her anchor and she - [Narrator] Diana felt of her failed marriage. On a sun-drenched sea with a bright new future beckoned. They cruise the Mediterranean luxurious yacht, the Jonikal. William and Harry witnessed - But the children, don't forget, and they had a wonderful time. Not probably William, But the little one was joined And it was probably to And when I ask her, &quot;Are and what's your children's reaction?&quot; She said, &quot;Elsa, I rang up William.&quot; So it was the answer. And he said, &quot;Mummy, I - It's been reported that when the first pictures of Diana and Dodi in that sizzling embrace in the Mediterranean were Diana rang William and warned him, tipped him off that the And his reaction was fine, he just said, &quot;Look mum, whatever makes you happy.&quot; He would always call her mum, He knew Dodi, he'd met him on the holiday they all shared in the middle of July. - [Narrator] On the Diana and Dodi had dinner Shortly after midnight, to Dodi's apartment where awaiting his princess. Pursued by paparazzi and driven too fast, they crashed in an underpass. Diana was 36 years old, her work half done and her son's half raised. In the new life she was embracing, she had exorcised her previous one and dismissed its wiser - Had she been with the boys of course, she would have been completely She would have had a very well-trained by police method. She would have had probably a followup car making sure that the But of course, one part of her deliberately didn't want that. And she did very much feel liberated from many of those constraints when she gave up being her Royal Highness, and having the trappings of royalty. So as on many things, she, There were moments obviously when it would have been very helpful to have proper police protection, but there were other moments when she really wanted to escape. And I suspect that the second one, when she wanted to escape, were more important than the first. - [Narrator] Prince Charles went to Paris to collect the body of his former wife. Despite her divorce and Her Royal Highness, Diana's coffin was draped She had died a member of the royal family. Charles, along with Diana's sisters, took her home to a country In the next week the royal family were forced to change their behavior, as the scale of public Charles rose to the occasion, behaving more like a widower Diana had often said, &quot;I will always be the Even in death, she was still bound to him. Hillary Clinton joined at Diana's funeral, she she had known and greatly admired. - On behalf of the President I came here to express our deep sadness at the loss of Princess Diana. We grieve for her children, She inspired countless men with her courage, perseverance She did hard work in difficult places, and she softened hearts We can honor Diana's memory by bringing care and by reaching out to those who of hope and opportunity, by by treating every child Today, the shadows are longer because we have lost a light that shined brightly and gently, and we will miss her. - [Narrator] Every nation, color and creed on earth mourn Diana. In cities throughout the world, commemorative services were held. (&quot;Amazing Grace&quot;) The soaring notes of opera in New York's Central of the American people. (harrowing music) Newspapers and magazines all over America reflected the somber mood. - [Reporter] Scenes like these were witnessed throughout country, as people said farewell to and celebrated woman. There was a sense of sharing And in Washington, the prayed with the Reverend Nathan Baxter. - It is too easy and too safe to place her on a pious pedestal where we can admire her and - [Narrator] Katherine Graham, one of America's most - [Katherine] She was a She brought something to royal behavior, touching people and speaking frankly, two major contributions. But we all soon learned had an unhappy ending. The death of Princess Diana with Mr Fayed and Mr. Paul has brought the problems of celebrity culture and its coverage by all of us into sharp relief. We all need to think hard This tragedy need not and - [Narrator] In 16 short had risen from unknown aristocrat to the most famous face on earth. From a kindergarten assistant an uncrowned queen of hearts. Before her wedding in 1981, Diana spoke of her work - I only work three days and the other twp I looked he was very special to me. - [Narrator] The boy's wrote a book about Diana. She praised the happy normal teenager, who took loving care of her son, Patrick. In Washington, Mary paid a tribute to her. - Attending Diana's funeral last week was the saddest thing I've ever done. As the last hymn ended, and of soldiers boots, so as they carried her through the abbey, my only thought was that the two boys who had lost the mother who adored them. God willing, Diana's spirit - [Narrator] In Paris, the became a place of pilgrimage. A convoy of London taxi cab drivers took a party of sick to pay their respects to the princess who had made them feel valued. Diana had raised the people everywhere, they Shortly before her own death, Diana comforted Elton John at the funeral of murdered fashion A few weeks later, Elton Other artists compiled a musical tribute, they were inspired by of the song &quot;Goodbye England's Rose,&quot; which raised millions for the Diana Princess Paul McCartney, Cliff and many more donated their songs to raise money for Diana's charities. Diana's final campaign who spent fortunes on landmines, which injured and killed innocent victims. She visited Angola in January 1997 and was interested in every - And in the treatment, do you cope with the - [Narrator] On behalf of the Red Cross, Diana pledged her - It's an enormous privilege for me to be invited here to Angola, in order to assist the Red Cross in its campaign to ban once and for all, anti-personnel landmines. There couldn't be a more appropriate place to begin this campaign than Angola, because this nation has the per-population than anywhere in the world. By visiting Angola, we of the plight of the victims of landmines, and how survivors are helped to recover from their injuries. We'll also be able to observe of these devastating weapons on the life of this country as a whole. It is my sincere hope in the next few days, we on this vital but until now - [Narrator] Her experiences in Angola turned a campaign into a crusade. - I've had hands-on experiences before, but this working trip has I've had more contact with people and there's been less formalities. It's the type of program for some time, and I'm and achieved what we have. - Remember that there particularly out of with various organizations. What she did is give and they all then fell With her involvement, with and in newspapers across the world, everyone then joined the - [Narrator] In 1993, Diana visited Nepal, a desolate region far but one with its own ceremonies Baroness Chalker, a accompanied her, but was being scaled down. Always respectful of other cultures and a perfect ambassador for her country, Diana would nevertheless be in her own words, &quot;As a One of Diana's greatest attached to two major diseases The leprosy mission was one of She had first seen leprosy Now she was attracting the to a centuries old affliction She wanted to make people of the 32 million people affected by leprosy. Leprosy and AIDS, twin one ancient, one modern became In dealing with AIDS and HIV, Diana knew that no amount of words compared with the power of touch. In one handshake, she dispelled the myth that touching transfers the virus. - Publicity about HIV seems to veer between sex and death horror to complacency at the other. But behind this confused picture lies the reality of a and untold private suffering. HIV does not make people so you can shake their Heaven knows, they need it. - [Narrator] Among the Diana was associated with was the Chicken Shed Theater Group, which welcomed children of all abilities. I followed on with me old cock linen And I dillied and I dallied Dallied and dillied Lost the way and don't - [Narrator] The group she was as irreplaceable to them as to many other organizations, that she had helped through The Chicken Shed Theater at Christmas 1997, for The song &quot;I am in Love with the World&quot; competed with the best of the pop world for a place in the chart, The Chicken Shed Theater promoted the song with a video showing Diana she had lovingly supported. In June 1998, the Chicken Shed children performed their song at an held by Diana's brother, Earl Spencer, at Althorp, her family estate. The concert raised money to help her charities. - Many, many have missed out, we don't yet know which because they've only just I mean, if the money continues to come in, as it may well do, then the charities hopefully in the future they'd of expected to with Diana alive. But at the moment, there struggling because that (gentle music) - [Narrator] Diana was To her boys, she gave her whatever the problems or the demands of her public role. Diana may have told her widow of the assassinated once said to her, &quot;You and figures in the world, except and I only have a past.&quot; Now Diana has no future, William and Harry are her living legacy. The two brothers as her only children have an unbreakable bond, yet they have very different characters. - She always said, prince and I don't have worries about him, but I think that the future has the sense and sensibility of Diana. (Spice Girls &quot;Spice up your Life&quot;) - [Narrator] Shortly after Diana's death, Charles took Prince Harry to South Africa. In Johannesburg, they attended a concert of the chart topping Spice Girls. Harry relished the it was a time to smile again and to let his father join in the fun. Just 13, Harry looked lost In South Africa he must've missed the reassuring presence of William, studying for his exams at school. But he seemed happy to watch his father show him the way to behave when dealing with unusual customs, and to give him a few stories Although Harry seems there are moments when the mask slips. - He has become far more reflective. There are long periods, I understand, where he is very sort of contemplative in a way that he wasn't before. Well, he's only a young boy. I think all of us who have families and maybe have lost someone close could understand what may thoughts, disappointments. He must have periods of unhappiness, but he is quieter and more contemplative than he was before she died. - [Narrator] South Africa in culture and climate, but it had many fascinating for father and son to share. It was a rewarding experience and an opportunity for in a different atmosphere. The tour helped Harry and an emotional distance after his mother's death. Like William, Harry can never forget the good times they had with Diana, she introduced them to new people, exciting places, and fresh adventures, a visit to a Welsh rugby match, and a chance to drive were part of Harry's upbringing. Diana never wanted second - In a conversation I not long before she died, she did bring up the question in that William would always be the one, the center stage one who She was worried, for instance, that William would get all the girls. All the girls would go whose only a couple of years younger, would be left out. And so she was already taking steps to try and make sure that Even though in royal standing terms, William would always be number one. (bright music) - [Narrator] Although she Diana threw herself enthusiastically into the role of mother She gave them the thrills and spills that other children enjoyed. This was nothing like Charles' upbringing. They raced each other in and shot down the slides at Distant summers of their past with their memories of a will always be in their hearts, but those happy days can never return. Flowers were left outside High Grove, the country home Diana shared with Charles until the time when they separated. In Tetbury, the village local people mourned the princess they had known since The sudden and brutal and beautiful woman stunned the world into unprecedented grief. With unbelievable bravery, Diana's sons joined Prince Charles, Prince Phillip and Earl Spencer in the sad procession to her funeral. Later, Earl Spencer said, &quot;It was the most Unknown to the watching world, Diana's will had given the Spencers the moral authority to help guide William and Harry to maturity. At her funeral, Earl as head of Diana's family to challenge the royal family's ability according to Diana's wishes. Outside Westminster Abbey, a saw Diana's last journey begin. The outpouring of public grief for Diana forced, the royal (soft music) Earl Spencer's surprising won public support, and became a shrine to the lost princess. Althorp House, with its had been her heritage, a potent symbol of domestic grandeur. Diana was like her Diana and her brother, Charles, had been very close in childhood. She had mothered him when She was six, he was three. In July 1981, their had proudly given away his A sick man, he was happy to see that day. Diana's father was a great he died in 1992, just as the truth about her unhappy marriage Diana knew then that her through her cooperation with a book that would betray the royal world. A long time courtier, her father would have been - The death of her father he was a big anchor for her, and he died at the wrong because it was the time that Her relationship with with her brother she had - [Narrator] Shattered by her he blamed for hounding her, Earl Spencer spoke at his South African home shortly after receiving the terrible news. - Good morning, I'm just All those who've come particularly over the past 17 years, will share my family's grief. She was unique, she understood the most precious needs of human beings, particularly those that suffered. And her vibrancy and sparkle combined with a very real sense of It is heartbreaking to especially when she was only 36. Above all, my thoughts are and with my mother and two sisters, who are showing tremendous bravery in the face of senseless tragedy. I would ask you please, at this time to respect the fact that and amongst the general realize that we too need space to our own flesh and blood. For that we will need privacy. Finally, the one consolation where no human being can I pray that she rests in peace. (gentle music) - [Narrator] At first, Earl with her father and the Spencer ancestors in the little church at Within its ornate tombs lies a dynasty that provided soldiers, Knights, ambassadors and The ambitious Lady Fermoy had Diana's mother, marry and produce the next Spencer generation. Diana's sister, Sarah, by Prince Charles, but married Her other sister, Jane, married the queen's private secretary. Diana's royal marriage brief, shining moment. - Your sparkle and those your boundless energy. - [Narrator] Earl Spencer's of Diana's title, Her Royal Highness, and his promise that the blood family would protect her sons, sent shock waves through the royal family. - Bearing in mind what Earl in that very contentious about the blood family looking over the upbringing of the boys, one would've expected to see They don't, and one of the reasons, undoubtedly is that what Earl Spencer said upset Prince Charles, because his abilities as a father. - [Narrator] As head the angry young earl lashed out at the royal family for their They had embraced her as but then cast her aside after - She came from a very, very important and aristocratic family herself. I mean a family with further back in the than the queen's roots. So I'm not surprised in a way that they responded in this way. Whether or not what Earl has lasting impact, I'm not sure. (gentle music) - [Narrator] For 77 miles was revered along its final journey. It was a triumphal parade She went home to her grieving family and her ancestral estate. To preserve the privacy of her children, she was buried away from the public gaze, on an island in a lake. Her brothers scattered that will reseed and grow again. On Mother's Day, her sons sent flowers to her tranquil resting place. Diana's caring legacy was continued by the memorial fund A major charity event in the famous Beverly There was an air of anticipation as many came to see the star guest, the man Diana had called my rock. Her former butler, Paul Burrell, emerged as the keeper With his attractive wife Burrell came to salute he called the boss. He was so close to Diana that he attended her burial with her family. He wanted her good work to continue. - This is America's first tribute to Diana Princess of Wales. - [Narrator] An auction A box that Diana had given to Paul Burrell was sold and then returned to its owner, and the Coeur de la Mer, worn in the film &quot;Titanic&quot; As her brother had said at her funeral, Diana needed no royal title to generate her particular brand of magic. For Diana's boys, the spring of 1998 was a time for growth and renewal. William went reluctantly with he was embarrassed by Harry had grown accustomed This first appearance showed that they had found of Diana's untimely death. It was a time for jokes and laughter, and a time for relaxation the Canadian Rocky Mountains. (bright music) Like Diana, Charles had always enjoyed skiing holidays with his sons, Charles and his sons were William once hated photo calls, now he bantered with reporters. - [Reporter] Prince is the best skier, is that true? - I dunno about that (laughing). - I think we might have a family argument about that one. - [Narrator] This was Charles' chance to show his easygoing and prove that he didn't It was also an opportunity for journalists to compare Harry to William. - He's got exactly his he's very exuberant, nothing phases Harry. But William is exactly like his father, very reserved, very even sounds like his father You'd swear you were listening to Charles. So, he looks like his mother, but he's his father's son. - [Narrator] At Balmoral, in August 1997, just days before their mother's death, the difference between the was quite evident. Harry was the more impulsive. William, already a cautious boy, knows that he's destined to be king. One day he will have to and she will inevitably - William's got a tough act to follow, I know he likes blondes, he's just like his father. So it's gonna be tough, isn't it? I mean most boys like to get a girl just like their mother was, but for William, is there who's maybe 12 or 13, 14 today, who's gonna grow into somebody who's not only as beautiful as Diana, but as compassionate, as warm, have that magic with ordinary people. (soft music) - [Narrator] After Diana's tragedy, can her boys hope for happiness? - Let's just hope for both their sakes that those boys are given the freedom to make marriages that really work, find girls that they really care about, and really care about them. Who are prepared to put up of being royal, as well and home comforts of being royal. But above all, that these marriages don't end in divorce like their parents', like so many royal marriages recently, because of the strains in the House of Windsor being so cold to the people that marry into it. I think Diana's left for that not to be true of them. For William, whatever life is always gonna be hounded, harassed, pursued, His misfortune, as well being that he looks rather like her, and he's her legacy made flesh. - [Narrator] As they watch the royal family may reflect had they kept Diana within their fold. Diana, the uncrowned queen, will always haunt the