All right. Today, we want to talk about different from commercial And today we have a guest, Jon almost 10 years ago and has banking since. I'll introduce him in a few with just the elements of wanted to talk about changes the financial crisis of OK. The topic is investment And that is a term, a became big and important, I'd preceded that by some years. And it refers to a business of create securities. If someone wants to issue investment banker Or if you want issue an investment banker. It can be a corporation for-profit, it can be a be a government. I suppose even an individual, an investment bank. That's the investment Now it's different -- it shares something with the investment bankers serve A company will come to an problem, and they want to raise shares, for example, to But if it's a good investment just issue shares for them. They'll talk about their whole So, in that sense an investment consulting firm, but they don't That makes the distinction. Maybe, they're in many ways a they bring money. You can talk to a consultant, and another consultant, hands on money somewhere. And that helps a lot. The advice and the money So, investment bankers are because usually they deal with about making a corporation or work, enabling them to they want to do. And then, being realistic about the money to do it. And so, that's how investment consulting And it differs from commercial investment bank does not You can't go to your investment like to open a savings They don't do it. I'm talking about a pure But let me just give you I'm going to come in a moment investment banking businesses But let's talk about what a It does underwriting That means -- suppose you're a company and You need someone to go to bat kind of people, who might can vouch for you. So in some sense, it's The investment bank has contacts big investments, and they manage new shares, and that's called If it's the first time you're IPO, or ''initial public private company, it's just you company, but now you want to go go to an investment bank, about how to do it. And the investment bank would doing an underwriting. So, traditionally there's two Also, there's also something offering,'' and that means, for gone public, and it already has shares are seasoned, but you So, you can go to an to do that, as well. OK. There's two kinds of deals. There's a ''bought deal,'' efforts.'' With a bought bank buys your shares. They go in and say, you know, we your shares. We will buy them ourselves and A best efforts offering is one, doesn't buy it and doesn't They say, we'll make to place this offering. So, those are the basic The methods that they use are and Exchange Commission the SEC in the United States, other countries. So, that's the basic investment So, if you're thinking of where think investment banking suits it's not good for If you're autistic, Then, you just get on the phone, all day, and you can be rude, on your shirt, and you don't classical music. OK? But investment bankers I see Jon is laughing. Tell me, what you know I assume that was a part of He says no. It's a whole different So, if you go to the symphony lots of investment But you won't see any traders. You nod on that maybe. We talked about moral hazard. I think that an important part is, solve a moral hazard that companies, who issue reputation. And so, what do I care, I'll we're going to go bankrupt. We know inside that we're going let's just see, if we can milk public knows it, and That's a moral hazard. And the investment bank prevent that moral hazard. They do the due diligence, they after that, people are So, I think investment banking establishing trust. So, that's how it differs from important that these people be They tend to be well-spoken. I can ask Jon, whether he agrees my impression, you can tell when walk in the room. They dress differently, I don't know what it is. It's something about reputation built around. The investment banking let me just -- since I'm talking about the and since we have a Goldman I put on your reading list a Charles Ellis called The history of Goldman Sachs. Goldman Sachs was an investment very recently, and we'll They're still in the investment but now they're officially It's an old, venerable firm, and the early 21st century, as, respected and esteemed Amazingly successful, and Ellis wrote a book just Ellis is on the Yale He's a distinguished businessmen himself, and he wrote a book largely admiring. Like, how did this happen? How did this phenomenon of And I suggested -- I didn't assign -- I suggested, you read one Principles. And it says something about to, in that chapter, the John Whitehead, in the 1970s principles that guide And Ellis seems admiring Not everyone would agree. It's a matter of taste, Whitehead is now -- I just looked it up -- he's 88 years old, and is have retired some years ago. What kind of an organization? Ellis says, that the thing organization is loyalty. But that's not alone, that toward their company. That's not on Whitehead's So, Whitehead's list. principle of Goldman Sachs? &quot;Our client's interests always little bit like bromides. I'm sorry, but I read them successful investment bank in something beyond -- I think, there is something Second, &quot;our assets are reputation.&quot; That's a coincident &quot;Uncompromising determination to everybody says that, so maybe &quot;We stress creativity and sort of bromides, maybe. Then, Whitehead issued this is also in that for Goldman Sachs employees, and bit more candid. ''The boss usually decides, not Do you know the boss?'' That's own interaction with people -- the boss really does decide, goes for the top. And maybe this is obnoxious, I to talk with underlings. ''You never learn anything when means, be a good listener. ''The respect of one person acquaintance with 100.'' an unhappy client.'' The I don't if it's on Whitehead's but I think it says something that Ellis says, is that They don't want to be in the known by the president. They want to be known by They're kind of social But it's all built around some and they want to be talking to want to be in the newspaper. I'm going to quote Now I'm quoting Charlie Ellis. I call him Charlie. I know him. He's a friend of mine. &quot;Making money, always and no Goldman Sachs. Nothing was ever done In fact, the most prestigious most. Absolute loyalty to the was expected. Personal anonymity was The real culture of Goldman drive for making money and the ways that the Chinese, Arabs, understand.'' So, I'm giving you a flavor of You might be repelled by it. You know, is making money And if you are repelled by it, work for Goldman Sachs. On the other hand, they're economic principles, right? Working for a firm like this, money, and then at the it all away to charity. And that's the new capitalism, So, what's wrong with that? What are you going to If you make $100 million, what You're going to give I mentioned at the beginning, I book, The Gospel of Wealth. Maybe that's, what this On the other hand, some of them some of them live lavishly. Different people have different business -- but I want to make sure I have sort of running out of time. I wanted to talk about what has There's so much to say Maybe, I should talk first In 1933, the US Congress passed which forced investment it prevented investment banks or commercial banks from doing It split them in two, and it you a commercial back, or are The Glass-Steagall Act was the Federal Deposit Insurance successful national deposit And part of it -- it makes sense insure the commercial banks, you doing and prevent them from So, the dangerous business was forced companies to decide. So, J.P. Morgan, which was doing and commercial banking in What is it? Investment banking or So, they picked commercial fired all their investment So, these guys regrouped and bank, called Morgan Stanley. Stanley was a Yale graduate and J.P. Morgan, it was Morgan died around 1911. And so, those were two J.P. Morgan, commercial bank. Morgan Stanley, investment But since then, we've repealed that occurred with the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act] of -- what was that -- 1999. Well, Gramm-Leach[-Bliley] repealed Glass-Steagall, and generally do the same commercial and -- yes, Gramm-Leach[-Bliley] was 1999. Since then, as you recall, we've And in that financial crisis, again, because it seemed that number of shenanigans that And the government had to bail We talked about this, and So, the question is, did these we repealed Glass-Steagall? A lot of people came These banks were doing all kinds were dangerous, and we're So, a lot of people said, There was some inherent wisdom lost. And this was debated. Now incidentally -- I didn't mention this -- Glass-Steagall was somehow Outside of the United States, I country, but as far as I know one that did it. So, outside of the United called universal banking. And these banks outside of investment banking and They sailed right through the divided up. So, the reason why we got was, that people started to competitive disadvantage. We Americans are at a Europe, because we can't do freedom than we. And so eventually, in 1999, we that the U.S. also became a But then problems arose. And the problems were -- Paul Volcker, who was chairman in the late '70s, early '80s Volcker Rule. And the Volcker Rule was Glass-Steagall, but -- and this is now in the It's Section 619. It doesn't say Volcker Rule and it prohibits proprietary And it also says, that hedge funds or private private equity funds]. So, that was the Volcker There was also another rule the Dodd-Frank Act [correction: Volcker Rule], also. And this is in the Dodd-Frank There was a senator. Her name was Blanche Lincoln, a proposed the Lincoln Rule -- unrelated to Abraham Lincoln, And the Lincoln Rule was -- or Lincoln Amendment, and that It says that -- it doesn't prohibit banks swap dealers are barred window, discount window. And so effectively, it prevents swaps anymore. As a result of this, Goldman or it appears that -- the Volcker Rule says October 2011 to comply. So, it means that Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs had to become a no longer -- it's an official commercial And because of the Volcker Rule, to shut down its proprietary of its profits. And Goldman Sachs will never be But it's not clear, It depends all on how Dodd-Frank I think, that the people that are going to try to claim, that was done by their proprietary that is, people who were trading true investment banking investment banker buying and make a profit. That's not underwriting that's proprietary trading. The Volcker Rule says, that you anymore, unless you're a pure a commercial bank, you can't kind of forced to become But they're going to try to I think that maybe they can. They'll re-define something proprietary trading, and what they're doing. We'll have to see. These things are long You know, one thing that strikes that it's so rules-based. There are so many laws, there nobody can grasp the magnitude people live under. And you see these landmark understands them, because the involved in hundreds of pages of cease to amaze me with Let me tell you something about relevant here. The term ''shadow banking,'' I term that I first heard from the last five years or so. Or maybe it goes back It refers to a new kind of What are shadow banks? These are companies that are but they're technically not. So, they're not regulated And in many cases, banks were shadow banks. I'll give you an example of pure investment bank. It's now bankrupt, it's gone. It was a pure investment bank, commercial bank. This was before the Volcker they went bankrupt in 2008, and the financial crisis. Why did they go bankrupt? Well, there's a reading on your Gary Gorton here at Yale, who other investment banks, was investments by issuing repos, What is a repo? That's short for repurchase The banking crisis, that we saw a run on the repo. So, here's what happened, who agree with him. Investment banks, like Lehman like commercial banks, and as deposits, they didn't as commercial banks. So, they could do what they underwriters, so fine, Well, not quite, but they way commercial banks were. And what Lehman Brother started heavy investments in subprime securities by effectively through the repo market. What is the repo market? It's a market, in which a money by effectively selling an agreement to repurchase the They're short-term loans, and some security that they own. What it was, it was almost They were short-term loans withdraw at any time. The someone wouldn't be some small savings account. It would be some bigger, institutional investor. But these were acting like because there could be a run there's a run on the If anyone starts fearing that fail, they all want to take they don't renew their repos. And so Lehman Brothers failed, declined, the value of its People, who were lending it of this, and they stopped like a run on Lehman Brothers. And Lehman Brothers could weren't for a bailout. The government had already had helped Merrill Lynch, which they decided not to bail Lehman Brothers fail. So now, the reaction to that is, banking go unregulated, part of that reaction. So now, investment banking altered by these laws. And still, of course, it's a The United States has important country in investment continues that Europe and Asia important participants in Growing, I think. The financial crisis has put business for a while, but to be coming back. The latest news is, that the starting to look more stable So, what I want to do let me just do a brief So, Jon Fougner took this class, and then, he served as my I was writing, called The New know him better. The important thing for this for Goldman Sachs, and got to he's working for Facebook. You've heard of this I thought it would be to give his impressions of what 252, of what Goldman at least the old And I think, it's interesting because it's a different kind of in culture. It's more of a tech business. I'm interested to hear, if they Goldman Sachs principles, them the same way. So, I'll bring Jon up, and JON FOUGNER: Very well. Thank you Professor Shiller. And Professor Shiller has well-spoken, and well-dressed, good, bad, or otherwise. I'm not sure, if I'll live up to but hopefully I can bit about this business. How many of you are considering investment banking? Maybe about 30%, or so. OK. And how many of you OK. And how many of you are considering working at Facebook? OK, so maybe we'll add by the end of this. The goal for the next half hour think about, whether banking for you after college, and for share a few tips on getting into the business. I'll give a little bit of my for my reflections on the with a grain of salt, share some during the debt boom, and then that you could take today, if So, a little bit on Junior summer, I went to work as Professor Shiller mentioned, enjoyed the work, knew that But I had never lived abroad, junior year here at Yale, extracurriculars, and so many I went to see Charles Hill -- now how many folks are familiar Fabulous negotiator. And I said, Professor Hill, how to this job a year later, Fulbright in the meantime? So, he taught me all this working out, and I did a year in full time to banking. Now, as you probably know, banking, they do it for two equity, hedge fund, maybe do something like 15% might stay career-track bankers. When I was working on Wall the most recent private associated debt boom. And so, recruiting to private fever pitch, that literally 16 for these jobs, analysts were doing interviews, and commitments to joining companies. And I knew, I was interested in close to signing with a fund, that I admire still very actually decided that I wanted the last three and a half years, been working at Facebook advertisement strategy. So, a little bit about inside It may sound a little bit investment banking division of what we'll do for the And by that, I really mean, just that Professor Shiller CEOs and CFOs about financing, So if you see this logo-- and that makes you smile -- I see a few smiles, maybe if it makes you smile, banking may be for you. You think about two, PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: They That's an Excel logo. JON FOUGNER: That's PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: JON FOUGNER: That's an Excel models, and they go on and on. PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: going to be a nerd. Is that what you're saying? JON FOUGNER: Yes, if by that comfortable with the technical absolutely. Especially at the junior you mentioned some of the banking, but at the junior responsibility is building So, if you think about working maybe two nights in a row, maybe that's exciting to you, So, how many of you have gone Stephen Schwarzman's talk from three years ago? One, two. Two enterprising users I would strongly encourage One of the things, that he banking, there's not a ton of numbers wrong. As the analyst, you really And primarily, what we're building operating transaction describe your clients, companies, and their industry. And then, the information from research you find by hook and by your colleague, wherever you into presentations, polished piece of business. So, that could be an IPO, a mentioned, and once you've won you as the analyst really are getting this deal across Dealing with the accountants, other bankers, even competitors working on the deal, and then, whichever counter-party to or buying from. So, it's a fair amount Typical investment banking deal pretty lean. Maybe one each of an analyst, you decide to and are given the working in investment banking will gain a little bit more and month to month schedule But even at a senior level, considered an always on-call Now, one of the advantages of that there's plenty of So, if you raise your hand and of this work, that might by associates, and you do it you're going to be able to get learn more and more One of my favorite projects proposed venture capital looking at investing in eight and because the team was that basically take on leading the different companies. PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: Before the managing directors JON FOUGNER: Well, it's all gone by then. That's a median, the mean might High variance. So, I would -- Was that the nerdy comment So, I might encourage you to investment in your career, course, is long hours -- maybe of years -- and what you get out, is a skill set that's really valued finance, but around the business CFOs and how they think about continue on as a career banker, success that you'll help create And then, of course, a network like the folks in this room, finance industry. So, as I mentioned, I was in and there was such a peak in started calling it Merger before the bell at the beginning be a $20 billion, or $30 transaction that would And there was so much enthusiasm transaction that even financial conventional wisdom told [clarification: LBO stands for their balance sheets were became considered targets And arguably the peak of this themselves, one of the fathers an S1, and in fact became a they are to this day. Your final task as a banking toy, when you successfully Now, this particular one used glittering fish, and at the pretty, but I would just invite create your deals toys, don't with the fishes. Not the best idea. And then, this is a safe for a logical, safes are in a bank. But this is actually an you pull this handle here, this one opens up. That was my idea of fun when I should take it with This is a snow globe -- you a lot of fun, as well. But again, just in terms of the myself blame -- maybe I I guess, maybe don't show your literally under water, when PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: Are bankers have a childish side? You say, deal toys. I was presenting them as What are you presenting JON FOUGNER: I can't claim, I when I was an analyst, but a on the boards, involved organizations. But yes, I think that we have creative spirit. I think, there's a lot of Stephen Schwarzman mentioned levels, when you're dreaming how to finance companies, how to you mentioned. But at the analyst level, So maybe, there is that creative trying to find its way out, one mischievous way or another. But anyway, this was the landscape, when I left banking. That was September 2007. And then six months after that, mentioned, Bear Sterns sold in and then six months after that, Merrill Lynch narrowly avert management brand of which it still is today. That same week, Lehman Brothers weight of those mortgages, not bailed out, was liquidated, investment banking and capital Barclays in bankruptcy. A week after that, what a lot of happen, did happen, and Goldman Stanley went to the Federal commercial banks, which today, as Professor Now, that having been said, if account of this era, this era for Wall Street. That having been said, at firms all around the world, conglomerates, and also at a independent advisory shops. So, these are folks like And if you're interested in investment banking is not the There are also, for example, asset managers, private Folks like KKR, Carlyle, still recruits here on campus. And then, out where I live in of the venture capital industry, the information technology So, folks like Kleiner, They may not be recruiting on be open to hiring their competitors are. So, if that's interesting to a few steps that you Obviously, you're already doing anyone having to remind you. Things like taking the right researching the firms you Just three that I'll touch on. Taking advantage of the in the professors here today, take for granted. Learning a little bit about sounds touchy-feely, but specifics around that. And then, of course, there's no hands-on to see whether So, this is pretty much exactly Geanakoplos -- genius mad scientist. You can if you have not yet taken his year, I would strongly recommend David Swensen, I understand pleasure of hearing from endowment manager ever, the nice things here at Yale. And I just keep coming back time Portfolio Management, the principles that he articulates Even if you never become an only thinking as a retail incredibly useful stuff. And he does teach a And then, in addition to this Professor Shiller has a graduate think you have promised to, to get into to. PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: about eight last semester. JON FOUGNER: OK. And how did they do? PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: That's They did pretty well, against I won't rank them. Embarrassing to our JON FOUGNER: But flattering As Professor Shiller mentioned, little bit on The New Financial undergraduate, and I just rewarding experience, because in this book, around how finance for societal innovation, level of personal income people to take more risks early the macro level of GDP insurance visionary ideas. I, of course, remain dismayed been put into practice yet, opportunity for all of you who Idealists to think about that as Other useful courses, of course, probabilities, stats, especially using the three science, computer programming not just in investment banking, about this morning, but also financial services Now, kind of switching How many you have either or Strengths Finder? A few. Maybe 20 -- maybe 30% or so. So, these are tools that I think more popular in recent years, psychological inventories answering multiple choice spit out a profile of how Obviously, there's no right or just preferences. It's a pretty modest investment maybe an hour each -- to gain insight not just into to helping you articulate to what you can bring And then, of course, where the actually applying for that getting your foot in the door. Career Services on campus are because of that they are very almost everyone is using them. So, if you want to find jobs resumes coming in their front little further afield. So, you've got things like lists firms, from Institutional Hedge Fund Research. There are plenty And I'd say, don't be shy emailing -- just kind of be persistent. We touched on professors here. I am incredibly grateful to David Swensen, folks who have at this extremely early stage really just because I asked. And I would encourage you to once you've left campus, harder to get that help. And then the alumni how many folks have been using out for jobs? Maybe 15%. I'd encourage you to do so, and is, think about what you share you're reaching out to, think reciprocate the help that you're that might not be obvious now, their career and you're I had a student in this class ago interested in advice, and And actually, he ended up being me understand in where you all process and your career So, there are always ways that a much more welcome hand if And then lastly, recruiters. These large, so-called ''two alternative asset managers, recruiters to find the talent And they are typically targeting analysts and associates, but if you have a strong finance and undergraduate, that you couldn't radar and try to use them The only caveat I would add to really clear and confident when what is that you're Because if you go in there of be your mentor and your not going to get that sense they're not going to want to their clients, who are the PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: questions in just a minute. JON FOUGNER: Oh, great. Yes. [SIDE CONVERSATION] PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: We're questions in a minute, but STUDENT: It could probably also just wondering, who JON FOUGNER: How many folks Ferrazzi in the room? Some people are -- their Maybe 20%. So, Keith was the youngest And he's a fellow Yalie, New author, written a lot about the play in business. And you hear this word all of us now get sort of a sort It seems very, sort of, and what he's really helped tenets of psychology -- and in this respect, he reminds Shiller -- applying the basic you actually build real, relationships, and breaking down between relationships Because business is As Professor Shiller mentioned, that investment bankers try to relationships, because it's entire companies, who are So, just to share a couple of from banking, after banking, as work in tech, and I very from a lifelong friend of mine engineer who had started And what he convinced me was, colleagues change how I was pretty sort of anxious by the prospect of being engineering. And what he told me, and I true, is that you don't have to Valley to have an impact, you rigorously like an I think the training, that then the potential training at the potential to serve you So, what we're trying to do at power to share and make the Pretty simple, in principle. And our strategy for doing this call the social graph. Now, we didn't create this. This exists out in the world, a mathematical representation who likes whom, and And then, we push information along the edges of So, this is kind of where I over here in FarmVille, but also And what my role is called is marketing.'' So, to kind of is basically, I go and talk to plumbers, understand what their other advertising products they to accomplish as a local basically synthesize that with present it to the engineers as build next. So, these are questions like, on Facebook look like? How should they interact with How can we target them to A whole bunch more. The real guiding precept here Henry Ford said, right? He didn't want to build the what his clients might have something that was dramatically for him that was a car, and for call social advertising. I am happy to chat a little questions, if folks So finally, just to kind of how one might have prepared me three things from banking that internet products are: One, this management, which is a business world. Two, building polished notwithstanding. And three, being resourceful points to help make the On the other hand, there's some were totally new. Thinking from the mindset of the officer, rather than the CFO, just the pace of the fast-paced, but the rate at internet is dramatically And the fundamental job itself, creating new products, building them, validating that case with mock them up -- and I assure in Photoshop -- and then actually use those engineers and product managers So, it's an environment that The yardsticks for whether or direction, especially in not nearly as clear. But if that's actually something you, then I strongly encourage Silicon Valley, and especially So, you can actually go to quick plug -- to check out about the jobs that we have available. So, Professor Shiller, did you time for questions. PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: I'm opening it up to all OK, you have a question STUDENT: Before you did your banking, how did you even JON FOUGNER: I caught some of caught some of it, so just bear and then I'll be You said, before I did my junior STUDENT: Before you did Or how did you figure out that field you wanted to be in? JON FOUGNER: Well, you know, I the right hand column of the interested in. I was interested in the working on math, basically, relationship side of it, the basically how you help vet the company decisions. And during the first week of of the firm came in -- and we use this term partner because, as the professor partnership -- but he came in and said, when important things, And when they want to think come to fill-in-the-blank tier consulting company. And that kind of action, and results that you create in appealing to me. And I hadn't done Strengths did it subsequently, and found, that's where my psychological geared towards. PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: Yes? STUDENT: So, Peter Thiel, who Facebook, and is currently on 20 people under the age of 20 school for two years and start And since you actually work for what you thought of that. JON FOUGNER: Yes, I think And obviously, I don't work Look, I think, whatever innovation is great. Now, if you're sitting here in well, do I want to take this signaling device of this college potentially sacrificing some experience, in order to rapidly quickly I got into entrepreneurship, I don't know. That's a personal decision that don't really have any Ultimately, for me it'll come actually end up doing really really cool stuff? PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: And you might think, because Yale fails in a couple of years. JON FOUGNER: One of our very who had had an undergraduate you're describing, where, I some time off to work I think he came back, finished partner at Benchmark, one I had on that slide. PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: Well, can I ask you -- I emphasized the core values strikes me that Facebook Maybe I'm wrong. Can you tell me, what are the If I were to read that list Goldman Sachs, how would it JON FOUGNER: Yes, so I think differences. I think, each of us has a core thinking about them, go to bed dream about them, and know that that constituency will determine failure of the company. And at Goldman that And at Facebook, our number one user experience. And we care a lot about our our advertisers, we care a ecosystem, but ultimately serve the user as well. So, each company, I think, has serving one core constituency, Now, in terms of the day-to-day think they're quite different. I think that what quite a bit more creative. PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: You're JON FOUGNER: A little PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: JON FOUGNER: Yes, not as much. And I really love the creative If you think back to Steven mentions that there's no numbers wrong, I mean certainly way, all the analysis needs to an ominous tone, when he says operate is knowing that we have order to continue to innovate, And so, that means that and it's no secret that we've them have been big mistakes. And we just try to minimize happens, try to fix them as soon just be honest about them, and PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: Can I You set the example. How many in this class are Not many. Like 5% maybe. What about science majors? That looks like 10%. See, you're kind of in an I mean, I don't know exactly some kind of division here? Why aren't there more engineers JON FOUGNER: That sounds like PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: because they're not here. JON FOUGNER: All the engineers, room, why are you PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: But cultural difference? I mean, are engineers against us finance people? You're there, so -- JON FOUGNER: Look, I think software engineering is at the mentioned, I was pretty saying, huh, I'm going to Am I not really going to be And I think the things that are people are: One, to remember company is, which for us is Two, to have a sense of So, you don't actually have to even necessarily how to mock up making recommendations that we simply technologically not waste people's time and lose And then, three, I think, when are going to want to see as quantitative analysis when possible, and to the extent that table, I think that's helpful. If you think about the business of the things, that's just important, is the ability to statistically significant, And this sounds like a pretty you might learn by maybe college, and yet you get out you'll find that many of your coming from MBAs or other have that background. So, being able to bring that whether it's at a consumer industrial company, anything PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: You should change the name of Engineering. That would bring Because to me, engineering and connection. They're both designing I think, we have another STUDENT: Have you thought of and how do you see that playing investment banking? JON FOUGNER: Yes, I have thought graduate school. I think that all of us want throughout our career. There's a number of ways Graduate school is Another is, going into confident that everyone you're and they're going to push you mediocrity, so you just know pressure and that osmosis. And then, I think, there's structured things that I threw a slide up of a couple of your own living room and Strengths Finder. But then also, you can leverage do things like peer coaching, executive coaching. So, I kind of take a somewhat which of these tools I'm going I just know, that I constantly and constantly want to PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: OK. STUDENT: I've heard a lot click-through rates on various you could talk about, what you Facebook should be, and whether is appropriate. JON FOUGNER: Yes, so, I'm happy about click-through rates. I'll probably defer on the company should be valued at. Is everyone familiar with what No, not everyone. OK. So, this is just Let's say, you show an ad some the internet. It's the ratio of the number that ad to the total number So, if you show an ad 100 times, you have a 1% click-through And if you think about, well, In marketing there's kind of funnel, which is a little bit a useful concept. Up here is everyone in the people we can actually make And then here is the people who an affinity for our product. And here is the people who we purchasing our product. And then people who actually buy customers who buy it So, we get to a narrower And what marketers are push people through this funnel, start with someone, who may not all, and then actually it again and again. So, marketers use a variety Online advertising is one, but the market, but it's a there's plenty of others that go Things like television, These different media play people through this And if you think about, where grew up, it was really bottom of this funnel. Of, OK, I am looking for a blue that I can either order online of my home. So, I search that on a search vendors, and in that case, it's I click through, because determinant of whether or not stage in the marketing funnel. If you think about Facebook the roles that it can play, but throughout this entire marketing have a reach of 500 million target within that. And then you can use things like you that your friend might build your affinity for it, on So, for some of it, relevant, for other of it, isn't relevant, and you need to measurement. Things like companies Like polling people and asking did it increase your likelihood to buy this product? Or did it make you aware of the trying to convey, that you I think, it's one of a number assessing the health of the PROFESSOR ROBERT SHILLER: I time, but let me just say, marketing sound profit-oriented, to me they have a social one thing is that capitalism is kind of thing, because it gets really need. It's like your Strengths And I have to applaud Facebook Finally, I'm going to invite you This was great. JON FOUGNER: Thanks.