Warner Bros. has produced some of the most iconic Looney Tunes ensemble to the action-packed To an extent, they probably helped mold the on this video...so, you guys mind if we ruin I'm Kifinosi with WickedBinge, and this to Dirtiest. For this video, we're going through the early 2000s for a nostalgia trip that will We're kicking things off with one of the from the '90s in general-it's time for A complex gift While on the hunt for a gift for Dr. Scratchandsniff, The name of that store is actually a reference "menswear"--where the king, Oedipus, finds his biological mother. Ouch, right? Anyway, Yakko shoots the idea down since he would like it-oh. Oh. Oh dear. No Relation come in two by two-including a cameo of specify that they aren't related. To this, Noah responds that he HOPES they show. Considering that they're rabbits in a romantic thought to figure out what's going on in The Stamps aren't the point to check out his stamp collection, he's have one isn't enough to stop him. He offers to let her open his mail if that's Maybe he's looking for a new secretary? Or maybe he's...look, we all know what he's In THAT much drip? Come on. On top of that, he's not ageist! When the Warners' teacher tries to teach the word-telling her he's never even kissed When she offers to tell him what conjugation showing that he was ready to learn something In another scene, when she pulls a marker what else she's got in there. Goodnight, everybody! "Give me the bird!" Every so often, you might notice a character in various contexts. They'd LOVE to, but they say the FOX censors It's a real shame, honestly-haven't It was our understanding that everyone had Lake Titicaca take the time to educate kids about geography Lake Titicaca. It's a fun name to say, right? We...don't even have to explain this one, As if they couldn't get more obvious response to being called "Sire" is yet the word as "siring", a verb meaning to So when Yakko tells her to wait till they're Now, this one was just inevitable planets of our solar system, Wakko corrects Knowing Yakko, though...there's no way he The Graduate, starring Wakko Warner Animaniacs parodies a bunch of movies in a One such movie is "The Graduate," and large, shapely leg in front of a very nervous Someone help him. You didn't think we were done with Yakko, Nowhere near it. When Dr. Scratchandsniff is trying to teach others, he asks "How do you do?" to Hello Nurse...before quickly adding "that Noah...I think you might've been wrong about Rockin' out at the Drive-in though. When the main trio are jumping excitedly in to bounce as well-and a horrified mother believing that cars aren't the only thing Slappy's favorite show you might notice the narrator saying that don't shine." So, since Slappy is a squirrel, would this We don't actually want to know. Having fun, Runt? It's already scandalous to have the word show script, but it's another to show Runt if he's having fun? The Grim Adventures of The Warners when the Animaniacs proclaim the Grim Reaper plenty of requests-as children do-and "adult channel." Given the sheer amount of innuendos we've just a request to stay up to watch Family Santa's "Load" bringing the Warners on Christmas. During their own rendition of "The Night hopes that Santa will "leave a big load"--followed Catchphrase. Granted, they did actually go to sleep after so often by now. Beethoven: World-famous WHAT? The joke of mishearing the word "pianist" Mix that in with Yakko's habit of mishearing, Someone's gotta make sure they can keep "Subpoena" is even better a judge arguing that Scratchandsniff had violated Mishearing as usual, Yakko suggests that the What a kindhearted matchmaker! You want her to WHAT? Apparently poor comprehension skills run in to search for fingerprints as a request to When Yakko re-emphasizes the word "finger," You know what the worst part is? Prince looked...totally open to it. Madonna's Truth-or-Dare in one episode, Madonna invites two random Cue the sexy music, and anyone above the age truth-or-dare party. Noah, inventor of tolerance two, Pinky boards the ark in drag. Noah decides not to judge-and in terms of the pants in the relationship between Pinky Watching the Figure fur and shows off her surprisingly in-shape Like she says-someone's gotta watch that It really makes you wonder how much more of Art is a spectrum out to paint a fresco of naked people for No, no-they're gonna do it because they Hey, at least they're honest. Brain's compliment fan," Dolly Parton, he tells her puberty breasts, of course. Now that's classic body positivity. "My bottom hurts!" One of Yakko's many "goodnight everybody!" punchlines comes right after Wakko says that This can only mean one thing...you didn't monsters. Oh, and there's plenty more of these. When his "client" opens up to him about every night, Yakko-you guessed it-hits Hey, speaking of therapy sessions... When Dr. Scratchandsniff is showing Yakko him of girls. In his own defense, Yakko reminds the doctor pictures-and he DOES have a point, honestly. Like, that burger looks REALLY good... Ooh, a Pez dispenser! When Wakko and Yakko mistake Scratchandsniff's tells them to "stop playing with my bust!" "goodnight everybody!" Wakko's Turn on Jeopardy brother, but he can pull out some pretty dirty In one episode, he says he'll "blow the meant he'd bet all his money in the next Word choice is important, kids. Okay, how did they get away with any of this? Look, we've talked about a LOT of dirty a sentient chocolate bunny-followed by Yakko get to the creamy filling"--followed further their eyebrows?! For the love of all that is holy, PLEASE tell Cartoon logic at its finest to manipulate cartoon logic to suit his whims. In one episode, he summons a group of hot immediately, he tells them that if they stay, Minerva Mink Animaniacs has a lineup that would make your We'll start with Minerva Mink. From Minerva Mink's naked silouhette being privacy to Newt the dog going feral after just about every scene she's in is a goldmine She still doesn't hold a candle to Hello Rounding out this show we have Hello Nurse In practically every scene she's in, the in the musical numbers, they can't keep In another scene, when Yakko is granted a Hello Nurse-and even with the power of magic, kid. Ouch. I mean, good for her, but that's GOTTA be good thing. Goodnight, everybody-it's time to move how freakish the jokes could get. "That's Uranus!" Yeah, figured we'd put this one first since No need to thank us. There's plenty for everybody of interest-that interest being in Freakazoid-he around. If not, he can just get them to draw him bigger. The kid in us thinks that means "buffer". The adult in us knows exactly what size matters The original twink of a nerdy kid named Dexter Douglas, who's In one episode, Duncan calls Dexter a "twink"--a Not only ahead of its time, but honestly pretty Gutierrez's Scariest Threat to make sure he can access the internet for He threatens the superintendent to give him all his "man juices." That went from psychotic to homoerotic real It's not the only scary threat in this world, Remember the time Fatman threatened to "personally people? Now this, THIS is body positivity...you really Married with meat asks him why he's never been married-to Freakazoid informs him that marriage and meat-eating Cosgrove-and given that gay marriage was not be too tough to figure out what kind of A true blue hero Cosgrove covers it up with a blanket and encourages or some milk right now. What an absolute king, redeeming the good that meat, Cosgrove. What an interesting restaurant... In one scene, a waiter asks if "the gentleman This show's absolutely wild dialogue is it to 2 seasons for the sake of the universe. From metaphor to reality THIS is ridiculous! It's okay, random network censor lady-if nobody even bothered to warn us, we'd quit This show in general was WAY ahead of its Freakazoid has a particularly wild, out-of-pocket at-home in modern meme culture. Like Invader Zim or The Ren and Stimpy Show, its own cult following today. Speaking of cult followings, prepare for world PINKY AND THE BRAIN. Some jokes for history buffs throughout the show. Some of them are rather blatant, like the but others are a bit more subtle. Particularly notable was the time Brain rejected party, believing that "joining the Donner This is a tongue-in-cheek reference to a group for the sake of a better life, which only Worry not, Pop Culture fans... There are plenty of entertainment references These include Bill Grates and Microsponge-a even a parody of the Beatles in one episode. Shoutout to the Winnie the Pooh reference Oh, yeah-there's a LOT of political humor, It doesn't stop at just making fun of specific shady nature of politics in general, like Party having a sign that says "no longer mistakes for their campaign slogan. A progressive use of crossdressing LOT. That's to be expected, sure-you can't in with humanity-but oftentimes, they end to do with the plan. Humorous though it may be, you gotta respect Brain's struggles with addiction multiple times over the course of the series-most He was thankfully able to overcome the former As for the latter...well...he was able to No, Brain. No, he isn't. One of the most memorable running jokes in Pinky's thinking what he's thinking. Usually, Pinky says something wacky and occasionally saying he'd "get clammy inside the cake," to pop out of a cake for him. Brain's response is just as good; "Sigmund Pinky." Getting overwhelmed with all these dirty jokes? Never fear, citizens-SUPERMAN: THE ANIMATED dirty jokes. "It's so big..." Lex Luthor's gigantic yacht impresses his on board. ...What? That isn't a metaphor. She genuinely just made that observation-it's gutter, right? Nice "S" in this series. One of the most memorable is when Lois Lane his "nice S". This can easily be misheard, as evidenced probably that of all the parents in the room. Steaming Load Tavern look no further than Season 1, episode 10's Not sure about you guys, but we're gonna a confidently gross name. Furiously in Love Darkside into thinking he's his adopted His reward for all his hard(and evil) work? Nights with the Furies, his group of female Joker and Harley Quinn's Whereabouts Batman interrogates Binko about where Joker ha-ha" with Harley Quinn. There's clearly not love in this relationship, context is anyone's guess...but whatever for the kids' sake. Lana Lang, the Realest Thang sentiment shared by Superman's old flame, When asked if her jewelry is real, she suggestively Threesome of Doom if the need arises. Even if he might need some "protection"--which, Livewire calling it "protection" is almost the kids-if you're gonna fight a murderer, Slow down, speedster when he challenges Superman to a race. When Lois asks for a quote, he tells her she an exclusive after the race? ...Man, what a douche. Kryptonite has changed you, Superman sudden change after being exposed to red kryptonite. He's gone from the do-gooder hero we all di". And as Lois finishes, a real "different Way to protect that age rating, Lois! A Suggestive Origin decide to get one last lovin' session in him if the two can manage to get their baby Hey, priorities are priorities. Premature Product Launch can disrupt the guidance system of any missile it by firing two missiles at the city...and to malfunction right after the fact. Lois describes it as a "premature product the missiles, you can probably fill in the Now let's move from one DC icon to another. It's time for BATMAN: THE ANIMATED SERIES. There's only one group more sinister than The Joker may be evil and crazy enough to line at the IRS. Even Joker won't refuse to pay his taxes A Small Subpoena Harley, she tells him that she served him We all know what it sounds like-more interestingly, Harley Quinn is canonically into pegging. Thanks for coming to our TED talk. It's not a Wonderful Life never seen the classic Christmas movie It's His reason being that the title completely That's...man, that's not even dirty. That's just sad. Riddler's Redemption he's a changed man, a sentiment that's a woman walks towards him seductively-cue Riddler's clear excitement, and it's no Wanna rev up the Harley? Really, Harley herself is basically a dirty he wanted to "rev up his Harley..." it's BEGGING to be plowed in a kids' show. Harley Quinn's Cream wild. Harley Quinn...um...pops out of a pie covered She then serenades "mistah J" and tries he'll want seconds. Spoilers, kids-she is NOT just trying to Roxy Rocket the most adult villain-conceptually, at That honor goes to Roxy Rocket, a former stuntwoman thrills-which, given her voice inflections, pleasure. With that, let's move on to a show that's ADVENTURES. Playduck Magazine hardly any room for a Playboy joke in today's It's almost nostalgic seeing Daffy read also weird and kinda creepy, but nostalgic. A jiggling gigolo was wild, Fifi le Fume calls Furrball a "jiggling who's financially supported by a woman-usually In other words...she just self-identified The Name Game LOT of rules that we're not going to memorize. Just know that it involves saying a name, sometimes B, and also the word Banana-I But given the emphasis on catchy rhyming, Plucky Duck in the lyrics. "One Beer" their hands on alcohol. And no, that isn't a one-off joke. It's the full premise of the episode. They're tongue-in-cheek about the show being but...MAN, that's pushing it for a kid's So was this. Perhaps one of the most unnecessarily subtle the Loon got hit on the head with a book called says "now I know how Robin Givens Feels." Allegedly, Mike Tyson had beaten his partner, this mid-to-late 90s cartoon felt the need feel the need to stop it, is beyond our knowledge. But this is easily the most interesting adult It's been speculated that this scene-and on Dennis Falk, an alleged cyberstalker who Fifi Le Fume. He even harassed the former's voice actor, away from the crew's enjoyment and led to Again-all speculative. But there are some video essays to check out Now we take another trip to Gotham-this A dirtier mind than any of ours Batman, she talks about how easy it was to even reacts, she immediately says "that" This indicates that Amanda has a VERY dirty Bruce Wayne goes deeper than we know. Nelson's "ride" of the mall, and wants to go for a ride. Oh, but not a car ride. Teenagers will be teenagers... Speaking of teenagers, when there's trouble, Displeased with the Merch Robin is pleased with the attention to detail Beast Boy, after looking into the puppet's Simple solution-just turn into a horse, a little transplant! Easy-peasy. "It's real to me, Starfire!" Beast Boy enjoys a fold-out magazine page, magazines-only for Starfire's question Ba-dum tss his claim that his dog is kicking Beast Boy's Boy kicks him with the back end of a horse-therefore, Poetic. Honorable mention to the time Cyborg told and blow it out his...we'll let you guess Comment your best guess below! Hands off the grebnacks! When Starfire complains that someone's claws turns back into his human form from an octopus, That's nice of him, but...since when do Batteries not included? I'll be the judge Robin may be a robot, they decide to take Cyborg's hands, more specifically-and exactly where that white glove he slipped See Less, See-More! When See-More drops the fact that he has see-through an alien knows the perverted side of the human Truly, this says a lot about our socie-okay, some tits. Blackfire's(potential) Betrayal shadows seemingly embracing, and Blackfire she's convinced she might have stumbled suplexes him across the room. Killer Moth's Dastardly Daughter with his daughter Kitten(no comment on that jealousy-complete with a little boob jiggle. Someone took care and time to animate that. Mas y Menos's constructive criticism some criticism to the Titans. Their most scathing review is of Cyborg, about be translated to "this old man is f*cking Ay Dios mio... We've reached the final leg of this childhood-ruining SHOWDOWN. ANOTHER show asking for the bird? Not just that-in one episode, Jack insists gang is looking for, it's him. His opponents would surely agree that he deserves Omi is in heat on fire-and he knows it. Unfortunately, he words it in a way that makes of destroying chess pieces. To each their own...just maybe keep it to A whole new world of opportunity again, he's excited to-and I quote-"scratch Given that the screen cuts away immediately above the age of 13 can likely fill in the Be careful, little hands, where you pluck for Omi, who's more interested in tasting We could make so, SO many jokes here, but from his "bush" is enough of an implication And if the anime aesthetic wasn't clear In one episode, the group is riding a dragon, seated...right behind a girl wearing a skirt. ...Goodnight everybody!~