Transcriber: Eren Ozbay Thank you very much. It's true I was born into a band; very literally, I mean that literally. When I was born, my four older brothers knew that they needed a bass player (Laughter) to round out the family band. I was born into that role. As I'm older I'm looking back right now, When I look back on that, I realized that I wasn't really taught. Which is why I say because if you think for me, and probably so I'm just going to go with English. If you think about how you learned it, People just spoke to you. But the coolest thing because you were allowed to speak back. If I take the music example, in most cases, our beginners are not You're stuck in the beginning class. You have to remain there a few years, until you are elevated and after you graduate the advanced class, you still have to go out But with language, to use a musical term, even as a baby All the time. To the point that you don't even know No one says, &quot;I can't talk to you until-- When you're older, (Laughter) That doesn't happen. No one tells you what you have to say. You're not made You're never even corrected Think about it: when you're 2-3 years old, no one corrects you. If you say it wrong enough times, instead of correcting you, (Laughter) And they start saying it wrong too! The coolest part of that with how you talk. And so you never have to follow all these years and then, With your speaking voice, No one ever robbed you of that. And so, when I was young I was learning English and in the same way. So I tell this to people; I usually say, And I say that just But when did you start speaking English? Did you wait until you were two or three? No. You were speaking, Whenever you could hear To me, that's very, very cool, - my oldest brother, out of the five... I'm the youngest, Reggie is the oldest - He's only eight years older than me. So how he was this smart, I don't know. That should be the real TED talk. How he figured out the ingenious way of not teaching us, He didn't start me No. The first thing they did from my earliest age that I can remember. I can remember living in Hawaii, my brothers would set up, A lot of times where I can see a plastic stool, with a little plastic toy, laying on top of that stool. No one had to tell me The same way no one has to tell you You know how to do it I knew that instrument was for me. It had plastic strings on it, you would But you couldn't really play it from By the time I was old enough they gave me something to hold preparing me for the later years. It wasn't about playing that instrument. That's the mistake we teach kids how to play the instrument You don't teach a kid how to spell. Teaching a kid to spell &quot;milk&quot; before they've been drinking doesn't make sense does it? But for some reason, We want to teach them the rules But by the time I was about two, I was already very musical Just listen to anybody's voice. There's no purer music than that. So my brothers somehow knew but they wanted me to be a bass player so when I was old enough, and they would play. I would just bounce up and down But the coolest thing about it, again, I was learning to play music And I continue that hopefully today. Again, what I did know when my brother opened up his high hat Or I learned these phrases The same way a baby knows what it means when the mother raises versus the father lowering You know these things, and even though you may not And so you're learning all these things. By the time a baby can speak a real word, they know already a lot So I was learning music the same way. By the time I had the instrument When I would turn about three years old, Reggie took two strings off He took the two high strings off, So Reggie actually started teaching me to put my finger to songs I already knew. I wasn't starting from the beginning. Now, I just had to put And looking back on it now, It wasn't about learning Who cares about It's about what you have to say. I've always musically maintained I've always had something to say. And I've learned how to speak So if we think about a couple of things not being forced to practice, - I'm speaking English again - When the teacher teaches you she has you put it into a sentence; A music teacher will tell you Practicing works but it's a slower process And we know that with English. And so this was the way I learned. As I grew older, about five years old, We were fortunate enough opening for a great soul singer So if I was five years old, But when I think about it, Why not music? So I've always, since then, approached because I learned it The best part of it all is I've maintained something And that's freedom. A lot of us are talked out when we are first given a lesson. Because we go to a teacher, and the teacher rarely ever finds out A lot of times, where there's no right or wrong, it's not about the right or wrong notes, They're playing because it feels right. It's the same way and reason Or when you're driving You're not singing or you know the right scales, you're singing because it feels good. I spoke to a lady at breakfast who said, &quot;I'm Ella Fitzgerald (Laughter) And of course she's right! So why does that change That freedom becomes lost and we need to find And it can be done! It's not gone forever. A kid playing air guitar will play Give them the first lesson, A lot of times you have to work for your whole musical life As teachers, we can keep that smile, And I say approach it like a language; allow the student to keep the freedom. As I got older, a little bit older, and my brothers and I started my mom would ask a question until I got much older My Mom would ask us boys, and she was saying, with another good musician?&quot; Think about that. And I'm saying music, What does the world need with you? It really made me realize music is more than just a language, It's my lifestyle. Don't get me wrong: I'm not talking about Because we can look back and realize that they were but just as huge failures in life. I could name a few of them, but if we think about our heroes, I think our parents were that we didn't know at the time, &quot;What does the world need with another good musician?&quot; So we're practicing all these hours. We turned our whole house where all the neighborhood, all We would practice, my parents would spend money to make sure we had Every Christmas, What was that about? Was it just so that we could make money? So that we could stand on stage I realize now, that it is Music is my lifestyle. And now as I'm going into so that I could share it with I realize that there's a lot and apply to our lives. To be a good musician, Doesn't matter how great I am Doesn't matter how great I am. We can put five of the world's But if we're great it's going to sound horrible. But if we listen to each other individually, we don't have and it'll sound much better. I was invited a couple years in a row and put together a musical team And we were able to use music what the next four years It was fun using music to do it that I can talk about anything politics, racism, equality, I can do it through music, We were able to pick who'd never played an instrument before. Usually, it was a female; have her come up, and then I would get the band playing. And as soon as the band starts playing, that person starts doing this. (Laughter) And I say, &quot;That's music!&quot; If you listen to that bass, when it's sitting there, So if you want music to come And that groove that's in your neck, So I just had her - because everyone knows how squeeze it and then, let She starts bouncing on that note, All of a sudden, she's a bassist. More so, she's a musician. A dancer never has to ask questions A singer doesn't usually have to ask Musicians have to ask too many questions. So what that taught me is that, &quot;Wow! Because we're great, (Laughter) And all of a sudden, anyone who were with this newcomer on stage, no one would know So that let me know, &quot;Wow! If I use my greatness in the right way, And the coolest thing about is she got to take the bass home! (Laughter) I saw her recently, so that's great. Listening is a great musical key working together, of course, being great When people put you up on a pedestal, don't come off the pedestal Stay up on that pedestal, because if they put you there Stay there and pull them up. And they'll grow faster So we're going to help these people In music, usually, I'm not great They say, I can't win anything without you all. Another thing my mom is, &quot;You boys are already successful. The rest of the world I didn't understand that then, Really quickly, before I get out of here If I were to play two notes, - just want you to use your imagination - if I play a C and a C-sharp it'll probably sound &quot;Wrong!&quot;, &quot;Bad!&quot; But if I take the C up an octave, play the C-sharp and the C again. All of a sudden, it sounds beautiful. Same two notes. That C becomes a major seventh which is a key element that makes a chord So how can the same two notes and beautiful in another? Just take that to life. When we see something bad, maybe we're just reviewing it Maybe we could change our perspective. Actually, if you see you should know and find a way to change your viewpoint. Or to use a musical term - Countries make bombs instilling fear, killing people, Countries, governments bless This happens from the top-down, This is our answer. Makes me realize that the solution Is anyone working on a bomb Maybe a cupid bomb? I believe we already have it. It's called Music. And every country has And it works. It brings people together. You don't have to know It's a language. It's a lifestyle. And it can save the world. My name is Victor Wooten. I'm a musician. And I hope you'll join (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)