A once bullied nerd leaves a toothless head on gets away with multiple murders for years; neighbors becomes an almost invisible killer; would never have been caught had he not tasted like after 30 minutes in the oven. highest degree, men who could have killed many 7. certainly one of the strangest, is busy at work in London. This always polite man is well-liked by times, he's a conscientious worker and boss. As evening approaches on February 8, 1983, he he killed people, many people, and that he often laughed and joked with the corpse about what He neatly places his pens into his office That is, to 23 Cranley Gardens, situated At that moment, as he puts on his coat, ready and perplexing is happening outside his house. about it, but oh my, did he get caught Some say Nilsen's fascination with death and time serving in the army. Some say it went farther to get away with murder when he was a cop. servant in the 1970s that he really started more for the friendship of the dead. Truth He really didn't enjoy the dissecting and already in a terrible state of decomposition. he started killing for company. In 1978, he invited a guy back. He waited for him at his previous house on Melrose Avenue. One trick Nilsen had up his sleeve and boy could he drink. He invited more young men the UK armed with cameras and full of curiosity. Then they became his friends. He washed their to him. He propped them up in chairs and slapped him laugh, treating them like the living. and they decompose, and Nilsen didn't much who were stinking and falling apart. So, later burned their bodies in the garden to come around and enjoy what they thought was At night he drank with the dead, and throughout explained his routine, saying, "End of the day, back, carpet replaced, and back to work." 23 Cranley Gardens, a lovely looking 1930s on the facade, was a large place but no place to bury or burn bodies. But as They can't quit. And Nilsen kept on killing. When Nilsen returned home that evening, he found The other residents complained of often and they didn't know where it was coming to the landlord about that. Yeah, go figure. started looking for blockages in the drains, animal. Perhaps, he thought, a dead rat. But That's exactly when Nilsen walked "It looks to me like someone has been But Cattran was pretty sure it wasn't chicken. a human eye. He sent what he'd found off to a and went about his life as normal. During outside. He was doing a bit of drain cleaning, The next day the cops were at the house. It was flat, to which the polite man didn't refuse. The pointed to a wardrobe and said, I think that's a long story; it goes back a long time. I'll tell After being led out of the house, Nilsen, again in a calm voice, said, "Fifteen pieces of bodies all over the house. The police perplexed, later at the station said why? Nilsen He killed 12 to 15 people and the cops Let's remember that many of his victims were they were less than caring when those young you can be sure this story would be different. flesh disposal, he might have had a lot more With this next maniac, his 6. torture, kill", that's what this man was and made panic pervasive for almost two decades in but only after he'd left many bodies on the Again, we the classic quiet guy next door, played with himself dressed in stolen panties but as an adult, he was just Rader had a degree; he had decent jobs, he of the church council and was a trusted boy scout As a child he kept detective magazines out that showed women tied up with ropes with knives fantasized about killing at the same time. He was by the Rocky and Bullwinkle show when the damsel And so, bondage and torture became the thing and again, and the cops were for a long time not 2004 when Rader was pulled over and asked, "Mr. That's when things went wrong for the BTK, On January 15, 1974, he murdered a family He first cut all the lines to the house and he broke into the house. There he found the he told them they were safe, that he'd soon He tied them up one by one and killed them all. he was also a narcissist. That's why he hid a It read in part, "I did it myself with no one's torture them, kill them, BTK." he tried to explain his madness, saying, "It's 'psychotic with sexual perversion hang-up.' Where But, it here to stay." He even talked about The Boston Strangler, and other fiends. and again, this arrogant beast wrote letters. He trip being a good role model to boys learning outdoor skills. Like Nilsen, he'd served time in He killed another woman named Nancy and to the cops with the titles, "Oh, Death to former letter that he was driven by "factor X", The killer who'd frustrated the police then just vanished. He'd stay vanished for making silly mistakes. As you'll see again today, What's dark and unfortunate, is that in order make a mistake, so to get justice, the police, But Rader, well, he completely went off seem like there was any hope of catching him But Rader just couldn't stop himself. He license of a dead girl. He signed Later, he sent more letters and even a and another along with a package titled, he left a cereal box in a pickup truck at a Home Rader told the cops what he'd written another CCTV of the parking lot. They saw a Jeep Cherokee. the cops if they thought it could be traced if replied in a newspaper article in the Witchita Rader was no computer specialist, and he didn't document he then sent them. It revealed the name It didn't take long to find a Dennis Rader and lo and behold, he drove a Jeep Cherokee. In court, his confession was likened to a speech But in the end, his self-adoration put him have killed many more and gotten away with it. sickest man that's ever lived. The story of Albert Fish once A story of a seemingly kindly grandpa who Ripper blush, that might have compelled Ted Bundy man that thought he was too clever to get caught. others, but on himself, too. When he was arrested, embedded in his thighs and groin area. Not only and set his nether-regions on fire. over the USA, but we doubt that's true. Still, which included the "Brooklyn Vampire", he was the living version of "The Boogey Man." meat, at times feeding himself and his kids on raw During this period in his life, he was but all of them said he was sane, despite If only they'd listened to him more. of six kids, his psychosis got to a point that he often of a young age. But because he looked like people trusted him. This was at a time which he called his "implements of Hell." but we only really need to know In 1928, he responded to an ad in the newspaper, Part of it went, "Young man, 18, The son wanted work, and Fish, using a regaled them with tales of being a single Fish told the son that he had a job There was no farm. Fish wanted to lure confess that he intended to bleed the son out. new suitcase, while Fish told the parents that like their daughter, Grace, to attend. Delighted said yes, sure. The last time they saw Grace, she they entered the dark mouth of a subway station. what had happened to her daughter. addressed to her. She was illiterate, Here are some of the parts of possibly "My dear Mrs. Budd. In 1894 a friend of mine Capt John Davis. They sailed from San Francisco two others went ashore and got drunk. When time there was a famine in China. Meat of So great was the suffering among the very poor..." became cannibals and acquired a according to Fish. This was all fiction, of He wrote in another part of the letter, "He fried, stewed." That kind of thing. He then time he invited Grace to his house and fed her to an empty house and prepared himself while she "When all was ready, I went to the window she was in the room." You can guess what he used the words "sweet and tender." He The cops were not surprisingly shocked, and be verified, the part about Grace looked like the had used an envelope with the letters York Private Chauffeur's Benevolent Association." belonged to a janitor and he had left it at landlady there said another guy had lived there Detective William F. King got on the case razor blade after being escorted to the police not that long after, in an interview, he admitted Subsequent investigations found that Mr. Fish with sadistic impulses. He later admitted to not after which he ate the flesh. That's the most vicious killer in criminal history. words, isms and illias, which most people had "psychiatric phenomenon" of which he definitely the law. To think, he would have gotten away On January 16, 1936, Fish uttered the words "I switch was pulled for the electric chair. document as to the full extent of his crimes When journalists asked Dempsey about the contents, As you will now see, other maniacs could have in fact, and they would've continued had the cops 4. killer who a casting agent would want to play the British killer, Peter Sutcliffe. Let's now talk The date was July 1979, and a police knocked on the door of a fairly nice-looking of England. A woman invited him in for a cup Laptew was one of many cops who'd been looking industrial England for years. The police had where it was kept had to have a reinforced Somewhere in that paperwork, Sutcliffe's name so bad that it was hard to connect the dots. he got a feeling this could be the he was a dead-ringer for the police sketches When this young officer told his boss about "Anybody mentions photofits to me again will be After that, Sutcliffe went on killing. He sneaked up behind women at night and bashed he often went to work with a knife, hence The women were often poor, with some of some of England's most rundown areas of as though they belonged not in wealthy England This is one reason why the cops were later perhaps they'd have felt more In truth, they tried hard, but their minds The case ruined not just the victims' lives hardworking investigators so ill some of them died Still, when at first it seemed as though the cops seemed less than compassionate. When it wasn't a prostitute, unbelievably the cops "is now killing innocent girls." but that statement shows how the cops felt As the years passed more and more women but police didn't always connect the amount of survivors coming forward, some and that he had dark hair with a dark beard. during the long investigation, but he was let with a wife, and they shared a nice house. He it can literally be a fatal mistake to Serial killers look like you, like Then in 1977, Sutcliffe made his fatal so this time he decided to choose the about a 45 minutes drive from Bradford. He killed he realized he'd given this woman a five-pound Furious with himself, he drove back to When he couldn't find it, in anger he almost took the streets were, the clever woman had hidden But the cops found it. Tracking a and it took some pretty amazing police work paid to someone who worked at T. &amp; W.H. Clark He was interviewed like all the staff, and house his wife lied and gave him an alibi for know about his extramarital murderous activities. post. It read, "I'm Jack. I see you're having no you, George, but Lord, you're no nearer catching George was the lead investigator, a man who'd and he was convinced that the guy on his accent was not from Bradford or even close by. to a newspaper that read, "I am the Ripper. I've you call me clever and I am. You that photo in the paper gave me fits." literally invented criminal profiling, went over But those Yorkshire cops kept looking for due to his accent, while Sutcliffe murdered even in a case already implausibly bad. suspected his friend was the Yorkshire was marked "Priority No1" and read, "I have for in the Ripper case. This man has dealings with His name and address is Peter Sutcliffe, Remember, the police had already interviewed house. He looked almost identical to the man just as some survivors had said. For Pete's That friend even went to the police station soon he was ignored again and to the cop's utter which must have been noted in the station The police later said all the evidence And so, Sutcliffe was preparing himself luck. Even though he'd just killed a woman that murder had not even been connected to the in a city that didn't have many murders. forever. He later said God must have been helping He killed again, even after being charged with Leeds University who'd been so scared Sutcliffe's buddy died from a heart attack, 1981, a man had been pulled over in the It was just a routine stop at a police still in police training. He soon discovered It was then he recalled that this guy looked a bit Sutcliffe then said he needed a pee, and so before he was allowed to go for one. There, out of a knife, hammer, and some rope. no idea they had the Ripper, and Sutcliffe was He not only had another knife on him, but legs. A kind of undergarment that gave easy The next day the cops went back to the scene after found the evidence and were soon interrogating in the end, saying, "The women I killed were In court, it was incredible that the judge prostitutes perhaps the saddest part of six attacks were on totally respectable women." high-security psychiatric hospital, a and lost sight in one eye after someone put after that. He lasted until 2020 when he This next killer is straight from hell, and likely heard of. On the morning of March 13, 2012, two Texas lot at a cafe in Lufkin, Texas. It's still after the guy had been seen driving a bit the man they're talking to is one of the vilest, in this sometimes wicked world. It will take and not without the killer's help. This is a man that tortured and terrorized, a other serial killers that had apologized for their there sure is a problem. The term and it is only by chance that this He started killing in 1998, did his stint in had one thing on his mind while driving all over That was murder, or what he called hunting. with campgrounds being one of his favorite places. other and pick people from campgrounds, well, that When he brutally murdered Bill and Lorraine their bodies were never found. According to He bought weapons all over the country, and when he also bought them in locations and he often kept his phone turned off. one who is robbing banks and breaking into than he committed a crime he became a ghost. On February 1, 2012, a young woman named at Common Grounds coffee stand in Anchorage, She did as told, and handed him the cash, He took her out to his Ford Focus with zip ties. She fought and struggled, but she had no choice but to comply. And anyway, that he was only after a little ransom money. place to pick up her phone. Keyes then told It read, "Hey, I'm spending a couple Later, Keyes went to her house to get her the boyfriend's car, and so when saw him. Instead of confronting Keyes, the Keyes returned to his home, where he eventually and then made some notes about his upcoming his daughter up and they went to the airport. but the guy was on the move. And video from when Keyes took the girl from Seven days after the abduction, a "Anchorage police say showing the video because besides containing evidence that could nothing that would help them solve the crime." robberies and burglaries, surely they must have someone in the public would have recognized Keyes. "American Predator", the writer says Mexico for plastic surgery. He might also have After his cruise was over, Keyes went back to He made a decision, and applied makeup to the stayed open, he tied the lids with fishing and sent out a ransom note. To make it look Daily News beside the body. Soon after, he He later drew money from Koenig's account in New he was caught on camera, so when those two guy fitting the description of a kidnapper. believe Samantha died within hours of her further believe the person responsible for confident that we have that person in custody." no idea who they had on their hands. They thought They had no idea he was a serial killer. He ended explaining that doing the deeds so far In 2012, he was found dead in his cell. Close "Ode to murder." Some of it went like this: and with your brain died also your soul... Your wet laugh as it burst like a pulse of blood from your Yeah, this guy wasn't exactly a bag of kill? It's hard to say, but investigators found Under the drawing were the words, "WE ARE ONE." And let's be honest here, before that even after all the confirmed robberies. His for the offenses of driving without Now for a disturbing case of a man who even though he was bullied all his school 2. bully people viewers, it's always wrong, it's the the person whose life you've made a misery might can and leave it lying on a golf course. You could A head in a can would usually but not when all the teeth have and not when the legs for that head are lying down a river somewhere. When that happens, as be put together for 24 years and even then, On February 20, 1989, this guy committed his When she was killed at the age of 25, the Manhattan area of New York City. was found on a golf course stuffed inside of a case not surprisingly said, "It was shocking." they never thought they'd ever arrest someone lengths not to get caught, so despite his detectives sometimes call "forensically aware." Had he not told police that he killed this girl to his few friends as merely an oddball who wasn't This troubled and sexually frustrated many of them prostitutes. Unfortunately, people on this planet get murdered there is not why there is a theory of what's called "less much in life and so in death, they are less dead. with murdering 17 middle-class students in New good at not leaving clues. When he murdered Balch he then used an X-acto knife to remove her arms in the East River. Taking out her teeth Soon after when he killed another prostitute, did the dismembering, but he weighted the body canal. He kept killing this way, mostly existences were tenuous, to say the least. was killed by Rifkin and then stuffed into She was found by a fisherman, but notably, her their daughter was missing. It seems In June 1993, Rifkin strangled a prostitute her body back to where his mother lived, he stopped at a hardware store and picked up He then made the rookie mistake of leaving three days in the summer heat, which as you and create quite the stink. With that Mr. Rifkin decided it was time to make a move. which he knew was an excellent spot to dump a dead especially for a man who had become an with a missing license plate, which for a serial opening his mouth and speaking his mind. Deborah Spaargaren and Sean Ruane, and those blue couldn't stop because he'd allowed that body to he didn't speed up, but he didn't stop, either. and his eternally quiet passenger being wrapped When the cops ran over to the wreck, guns in hand, smelled the familiar odor of a dead person. Rifkin in time, he just told the cops everything, stuff they'd know how to find the bodies, or body parts. although the head in the can on her working name and the name she'd given Rifkin. In 1994, Rifkin met another killer a man who opened fire at a train in 1993 He shot 25 and killed 6. they both started arguing over who was the and an exemplary background in body disposal, no But his troubles with other prisoners, in the he's at Clinton Correctional Facility. He's 1. story of how killers get away with murder. He was arguably Russia's worst serial killer, and the infamous chessboard killer Chikatilo possessed a rage from hell. He He was MONSTER INCORPORATED, and He really shouldn't have, given that when he was impotent from a young age, and some girls mocked into rage, and the angry young man groped his way When he later taught Russian literature, He spied on young women, watching them from He acted on that as well, many times, and at another school, he did the same again. job? Well, the reason is connected to why he the Soviet Union and the Soviet education could come through the system. So, it And even when he started killing, detectives Former academics didn't mutilate people even when the victim was still breathing. Only literally torn to pieces, which is why the Chikatilo had by this point which is an ideal job for a serial killer since like Russia can't easily be connected. Even with utterly disturbing crime scenes, Moscow It said, that kind of thing only But bodies kept piling up and Moscow had to face this killer, many hanging around train stations Operations happened where undercover cops were but Chikatilo kept killing pretty much under undercover cop at Donleskhoz station, right what those stains were on his clothes, to which Hmm, thought the cop, a mushroom forager It was only by sheer luck that when another been questioned, he actually noticed the name back in the day, related to a missing person. this cop dug deeper. He discovered that this traveling businessman past for sexually motivated crimes. He then saw had been a sexual and violent crime. No one had form the picture of a violent murderous maniac. surveillance, and even though they arrested murder, under questioning he never cracked, and He might have not done one year in prison Police did something that had not Instead of grilling him again, they called in It was this guy that once rightly told them, who is likely impotent and hates women. gave a bit more credit to the art of Bukhanovsky sat in front of Chikalito and told lonely man, a man with a terrible childhood. A boy right then that Chikalito's family literally killed and cannibalized by neighbors, after which, Childhood could not have been any worse, by said this to Chikalito, by the time the said, "It was me, I did it. I killed them all." investigating, but about many other murders they 1992, Chikatilo was sentenced to death a bullet to the back of his head ended his life. Now you need to watch "America's Most