Hi I'm Toby and welcome back. Today I'd of none other than the famous Albert end of high school as well as during his a bit of a look through with you to see student. There's a bit of a myth that at math and failed that at school but see that Einstein was actually a pretty perfect and his time as a student wasn't grades reveals interesting information going on in physics at the time. As well grades I also have how his grades and also the grades of his first wife So with that let's have a look. Just so was 16 1/2 in 1895 he actually tried Switzerland but he failed the entrance to even take the entrance exam is 18 so The entrance exam had a scientific section on as well as a general section which low grades in the linguistics questions. enrolls in the Aargau* School which is a Switzerland where he will continue his school would allow him to be directly entrance exam again. So this first grades from his year at the Aargau which is the town in Germany that he was 1879, that's Pi Day the 14th of March, You might have noticed this is all in translation although I don't speak that he took and his grade. Now a grade would mean very good and a grade of 1 taken German language and literature, algebra, he's got a 6 there, geometry geometry, a 6 as well the highest score, So he looks like a pretty good student little bit lower, a 5. Natural History, art lowest grade here from when he was only a 3 out of 6, but he clearly a very math and physics subjects. And there we October 1896 allowing him to go straight from his whole time there at University. grade record here this is referring to would write your entrance scores here entry from school that is empty and we 1896 and his exit date of August 1900. semester 1896 to 1897, we have the Einstein received, and again one is the grade, then we have a column for notes or differential and integral calculus by geometry, mechanics with exercises, And it looks like he's done fairly well So the grades aren't perfect. Over to the calculus and then physics by Weber or Now Weber is a teacher of Einsteins worth impact on Einstein during his time there. entrance exam when he was only 16, in on his lectures while he was But during Einstein's time as a student Einstein and they ended with a very poor Weber's physics lectures were actually a Around this time I believe that Maxwell's laws and incorporate that into didn't include Maxwell's laws at all. So for Weber and did a lot of his own self like Maxwell's laws and other current professor that Einstein also didn't get next page but for now let's look at the mechanics, projective geometry again and down here. This is geometry of numbers a former teacher of Einstein. You may reading about some of Einstein's work, Minkowski space-time and a few other important mathematical ideas there. So ended up helping with the mathematics of Minkowski was his teacher, although, and this is a bit of a trend, Einstein actually skipped a lot of Minkowski's lectures Einstein didn't think that he would lectures and would rather just study on Minkowski down here, we've got function theory and potential theory. We'll go to the get a little bit spicy . If we zoom in that we're going to see in this record Physics. It would appear that this is a Professor John Pernet. Einstein very course and so Pernet gave him the lowest note up here which says &quot;March 1899: of lack of diligence in the physics So really Einstein was penalized for not His other grades on this semester include a laboratorium, a 5 from Weber in 4 1/2 down here for something but maybe it's got something to do with that this Weber I've been talking about electromagnetic flux is named after. That is a Heinrich Weber. On our last differential equations, AC systems and AC measurements, scientific work in the so fairly high grades, intro to analytical mechanics. It's not clear to take the course or if the course just many sources that say Minkowski was a seeing is a lot of dashes next to his of departure and seems to be a summary indicating that he graduated with his mathematic direction, granted by the The presence of this 1 and the fact that Einstein didn't show up to surprise to you. It is said that to study what did not interest him and joyful exploration of the wonders of Einstein said in his autobiography that one's mind for the examinations whether such a deterring effect upon him that he I found the consideration of any for an entire year.&quot; Now that is a sadly of being tested on subjects drains your you don't even want to look at it and it lucky that Einstein didn't just quit his joy and his desire to work on to show is a document from halfway classmates that Einstein had, it's a pretty We've got Einstein here and we can see is the average column, that he was the his class. There is one notable classmate is notable because he was a good friend allowed Einstein to be able to skip so study from Grossman's notes before the Grossman and he said that he was a very notes. It's kind of tragic for him that notes, is the only one in the class who the other four students in the class, except for Einstein, went on to get assistant positions in the university able to get such a position but he did career in physics. His tactic of copying because he had such a poor relationship them wanted to take Einstein on as to be Weber who was conspiring everyone and Einstein even wrote letters out to get them to take him on but he had no be Grossman in the end, as Grossman's dad Patent Office after a while. I even read Maxwell's laws the patent office was had Grossman to thank for a lot of that. like to take a look at and that is the Einstein's first wife and she actually She was in the same class at the start, she was studying the same subjects although at the University of Heidelberg. This is they're actually pretty good we've got a geometry. She's done differential and Pernet's practical physics course and but she managed to get a 5. Sadly, failed her final exam and then shortly child. She did make one more attempt to successful and then moved away with I thought it would be worth making a note important to Einstein's time lot of that self-study with. She was the Maxwell's laws with and just exploring So that's all I wanted to show you today. If Einstein did score pretty high grades as struggle. Einstein knows what it's like and to feel like the school system is say it's not a good idea to employ Einstein's strategy of not going to lectures and just copying someone else's really come to hurt him when he tried to still applies to university now. You want in your field whether it's for reference relationships in academia. So thanks for This video was made possible by you, my Thank you. Special mention to today's