Apart from my stomach and thighs, I'm tattooed all over. I definitely wanted Japanese style tattoos. This is also a part of Japan's culture. There's nothing embarrassing about it, nor am I a Yakuza. Doesn't focusing only on money make everything super boring? You don't need to go out of your way to open a restaurant then. Thanks for the food. I have a lot respect for him, since you can tell that he hasn't come this far by doing this half-hearted. He is quite charismatic. I'm really grateful that customers come here to eat. I'll do my best to live up to their expectations. I'm heading to Oharano now to dig up some bamboo shoots. We're heading to a mountain west of Kyoto. That's where I'm growing the bamboo shoots. The quality of the soil is better there. The area is called Oharano, and the north area is quite famous. This is generally the area I am renting. Me and a few other people are renting it. After digging up the bamboo shoot.... ...it's better to cook them right away, to remove the scum. When cooking, you take off the scum that accumulates in the broth, right? And if you cook them with rice bran, the bamboo will loose it's flavor. So I don't cook them with rice bran, and I do not take off the scum. I search for bamboo shoots that do not have any scum. They are cheap to buy at the supermarket too, but the aroma is just very different. Let's go. I'll be doing the preparations now. At 5pm. The shop opens at 5pm. I won't be using this today. I'll let it rest for about week. I have to stay concentrated during preparations the most. Preparation is everything. On the contrary, I can relax after opening the shop. I opened my first shop when I was 27. And employed some staff too. It was a really cheap Izakaya. I did that from the age of 27 to 35. I was playing around a lot, and didn't know much about business. Like, drinking tequila with customers, and trying to increase sales like that. Doesn't focusing only on money make everything super boring? If you're money-oriented you don't need to go out of your way to open a restaurant. For example, buying frozen fries and selling them for 300 Yen, because it's more profitable that way. And thinking 'whatever, it's fine like this'. Doing that for a living for the rest of my life, I really hated the thought. I don't mean that people who think that way are in the wrong, but that it's just not for me. I started to get tattooed a crazy long time ago. Like when I turned 20. I lived in an apartment next door to a tattoo parlor. And we'd often meet in the hallway. That's where I got my first one. For me, I only wanted Japanese-style tattoos. I'm Japanese after all... and I don't like American-style tattoos. I have tattoos everywhere, except for my stomach and thighs. This is also a part of Japan's culture. There's nothing embarrassing about it, nor am I a Yakuza. Good evening. Hello there. Thanks so much for last time. Don't mention it! Cold sake please. I need to be up early tomorrow, so I'll have to mind the train times. Right. Here you go. Thank you for the food. Thanks for the food. Excuse me. This is seared bonito and roasted pike conger eel, sayori, and monkfish squid. These are stewed young bamboo shoots. Bamboo shoots are delicious. So good! Really good. This is the last dish of the course. He is quite charismatic. We all wanted to be just like him when we were young. And it's amazing how he studies about Japanese sake. I think he's really smart. He did play around quite a lot when he was young, but the way he climbed up from there is unbelievable. I have a lot respect for him, since you can tell that he hasn't come this far by doing this half-hearted. Though I don't think he has many people he is still talking to from back in those days. Please come again. Thank you very much. Yes, please do! Please come again. Take care! It's been a rewarding day. I really appreciate it, that customers come here with high expectations. I'll do my best to live up to their expectations.