Hi guys, in this lesson, I'm going to cover extension to AWS Organizations. It sits over additional control. With Control Tower, you create a well-architected, multi-account baseline that's will be created if you don't have one already. and that OU will have your management account in will also set up a series of organizational units the Sandbox OU, and the Production OU. And you during the setup wizard. Within the Security OU, the Audit account will gather the auditing and the Log Archive account is where you can registered OUs within your landing zone. The you can create things like your dev/test accounts. but you can add your production accounts here. The directory sources for Single Sign-On can the default, SAML 2.0 identity providers, or a series of preventive guardrails. These are disallow certain API actions. Now, you can think Essentially, Control Tower is creating a pre-configured in a certain way for certain Tower console. In the next lesson, Control Tower These are used for governance and compliance, AWS Config rules. So, let's just summarize Control multi-account baseline based on AWS best Guardrails are used for governance and compliance, are based on service control policies, and they're detective guardrails. Those are implemented and they're there to monitor and govern compliance is that the root user in the management would disallow. So, this is the same concept as affect the root user in the management account. for setting up a landing zone using AWS and I'm on the Control Tower home page. And Landing Zone'. So, remember when we create known as a landing zone, and that's the number At the top of the page, here AWS let you know Essentially, Control Tower is going to have the and organizational units, but it's not going to extend that governance afterwards. Let's scroll home region. I'll leave mine on 'US East (North access to services based on your configuration. regions you want to actually control and the to leave that one as not enabled. You can also So, initially, it's just going to be 'US East I want to, I can add regions in here. I won't add we can define the organizational unit structure. in this example, is where we're actually going archive account and the security audit account. if you wish to. This one's called 'Sandbox', and which you can then use for any kind of dev/test going to click on 'Next'. On the third step of the encryption settings. Now, we don't have anything this account that I'm logged in with. We then have both cases, we can change the account name if we I'm going to leave those as the defaults. And then to be unique. So, you'll need two different You can enable encryption settings if off and just click on 'Next'. So, this is the confirming the information that's been supplied, that Control Tower will be granted permissions and then you click on 'Set up Landing Zone'. Now, zone. What I've done is I've already set it up I've switched over to a different account where your Control Tower configuration, your landing confirming what's happened. So, two organizational native cloud directory with pre-configured groups, guardrails to enforce policies and two detective So, that's been set up. If we just look over the now I've got a couple of tests I use at the bottom the sandbox, and the router are all related Factory' here, we can see the VPC configuration provision new accounts. So, what this is, is it that's controlled by Control Tower. So, we can (that's disabled by default), the number and so on. Now, I've only got the one region so you can see the others are all grayed out either enroll accounts that already exist and or you can create a new account. So, if you to enter a new email address and fill out all and it's going to create that account for you. are there to enforce governance over our account. many of these will not be in operation. We can see and you can see there's a few different Under Users and Access, we can see using AWS Single Sign-On, and you can see the identity management is also using the SSO we can see our management, log archive, and you can then see a bit more information about it. related to this configuration. Under Landing information for the landing zone. Now, if you we can choose to change our mind about that we can do so here. If we expand 'Additional AWS additional regions we might want to protect using of there. Lastly, under Marketplace for Control here with various solutions that you can actually to Organizational Units now, and what I'm going to the Security one because I want to show you a such as compliance. Here, the state, the amount You can also see the SCPs, the service You can see any non-compliant resources. So, this nested ARNs. There are none in this circumstance. that OU. So, this is where we have the audit and the enabled guardrails. So, there are quite a that's it for this video. We've set up a landing configuration settings of your landing zone. And then it's a good opportunity to play around a bit