Greetings to all the dear viewers of Dora channel. This channel introduces you to the daily life of a grandmother's family and their children. Grandma's family portrays a special world of village life with simplicity and friendship. Your support and sharing of Dora's videos makes us happy. Thank you very much for your presence. Thank God. Thank God. Where did the goats go? They may get hurt in this rain. Can't the car pass through here and go after the goats? No, I told you to give straw to the goats, but don't send them out. I didn't think it would rain heavily. The goats went that way. I have to go up by car. The car cannot climb that path. Shall I come with you? No, go inside the house immediately. Take these grains into the temple. Let's fix the passage of water so that water does not enter the nest. It's no use dear. This water also enters the nest. It is not so. Let's go find the goats. Check where the goats are. I have to call them. Should we take the goats from the mosque? No, it is dangerous to go this way . walk slowly It is so slippery here that we can ski. Be careful dear, I hope my coat will not get dirty. Finally, you salt it. I don't have the energy to do this. I am worried that we will fall and get hurt. Mother, look at our feet instead. Thank God, Nasru, I got completely wet. Take this, my God, you are not well. Do goats have straw? yes Misro has thrown straw for them. keep calm Shall I close the door? Yes, where is the donkey? It is coming to the farm. Come here, come here , come here, bring hay for the donkeys. Put this bucket here so that it will be filled with rainwater and the animals will eat from it. Hello, hello, my dear, how are you? I came from the road on foot. The car is parked on the road. Tell the car to come here. It can easily come. Do not knock the door. Greetings Our car couldn't move and we parked it on the road. The car could come that far. Has the rain bothered you? Yes, we went to look for goats. In the morning, we saw goats on the side of the road. The weather was sunny. I took the goats out to drink water but they went to the mountains. Is the house leaking? come sit down We want to go to Fariba. I called Brat to bring the girls from the dormitory. come sit down I have to go to Fariba's help and fix the waterways. Do you need help? No, thank you , make a canal behind the house, my son, so that the water can collect. I have to bring the pitcher and pour water into it. Change your clothes. Nasru, pour some water, it is better to take off your shoes. Water got into my shoes. This cable was lying there. We should not allow this divine blessing to be filled. We have to put one of the tankers here. are you too cold Yes, rest here. Sleep now, put the blanket on my shoulder. Wait, I'm very cold, I'm cold too. He has come after the goats and is wet. I was in the rain without a coat. You should always be everywhere.. The girls are coming now, I want to cook. My son, I don't want a blanket, bring me a coat. Mother, I will bring you this light blanket, it is better. My dear, we didn't take you to come inside the house and rest, why did you stay in the rain? I was making the water passage. Take this dress out because it's completely wet , I couldn't cut wood for the heater. do you want to cook yes mother The girls are coming soon. They are cold. It is better to chop firewood for them and turn on the heater. I will definitely do this after cooking. Check your mother's condition, maybe she needs more blankets. Uncle came to you. Welcome, my dear, it's cold . Greetings, come inside the house. i want to go Lunch is ready. what food do you have Don't worry for now . You will be satisfied. I cooked a delicious meal. did you cook Yes, don't do it. My wife will also expect me to cook. Mahboh was very tired, his clothes were wet. Darling Arash, let me take you to school and bring Marzieh. Prepare the food when I come back. Didn't you want to give me lunch? They prepare the rice. I have to go back to Zainab soon. He is alone. The rice is not cooked well. Spread the table, it's cold and come inside my son. cobra help me You should have brought the bigger table. That's good. Grandma, forgive me for crossing in front of you. (Lor people believe that when an older and elderly person is sitting, you should not pass in front of him in order to respect him) Please close the door, my dear. give me the fork Take this, I'll take some meat, then give it to your grandmother. Did Nasro really cook this food? Yes, give me more food. Zainab is alone and I have to go. Stay here for the night. thank you We disturbed you. It is not so. Do you have anything to do with me? I wish you would bring Zainab with you. I came this way. I will go with your permission. God bless you. Goodbye. Did you fill the barrel with rainwater? Yes, thank God, we don't have a problem with dehydration, we just need drinking water. My car window is broken. Turn on the car. The glass is tilted. help me It was very cold here last night and we need to install a heater. It is better to install a heater there. Fold the rug gently. it is good It is better to collect the carpet more. it is enough Come help me to bring the heater. The girls are coming. I can't my son. you let it go I go to the back of the house. Take the nail from the side of the window. Bring the pickaxe too. Who remembers the meeting under the rain in the street? Beloved, you fell in love and you sing. It is very cold. Beloved, you became a poet and we were unaware. Bring the heater, my dear, make the chimney high. OK, put a stone under the base of the heater. The chimney cannot be installed higher. You use more tubes. Then the chimney is placed under the tiles. Install more pipes outside. give me the hammer where is the hammer None of you are clever. I am very cold. Me too, I told you to bring this, but you are not with me. Take the heater and stand on its base. You brought me a stool. Use a heater base. It is of no use. Will he bring the stool? Yes, move this heater base. It is wet. Bring a cloth so I can dry it. do you want this This is a towel. No, why didn't you make the chimney when building the house? I had reminded him. I didn't think we would stay here until winter.. I thought we would go to the city. The rain has become more intense Close the door. it is good We must adjust the heater so that the problem of the previous heater does not repeat itself. Last time I told you to fix the chimney, but you didn't listen to me. Thank God for this rain dear, don't you know where I left the spatula? Find the nine spatulas. Find the spatula and give it to me. Take off your coat so it doesn't get dirty. Find the knife. Marzieh is looking for it. I'm sorting it out here. Nasru, we have to remove the heater. Smoke may enter the room. Move the pipe forward. take this, where was the spatula? It is good on luggage . Do you not use this tube? It is for the external chimney. Put a cloth in this part of the thick plaster. Should I lift the plaster pan? You're annoying, aren't you? My daughter is very strong. Open the door, should I continue the work myself? no Put this out. my daughter What is it that is in the well and does not answer anyone. One is dead. Bring the blanket with you from there. Wait for us to spread the carpet. Sweep the carpet while I bring the blanket. come here I will drive you myself. Hello, our clothes are dirty. It's okay dear. Come inside. Greetings. Did you install another heater? Yes, go take the heater next to my daughter. Fariba's barrel was filled with water and he entered the house from it. what did you do We removed the plaster and covered the wall with plastic. good jewelry thank you dear I did not see you You should wear boots so that the rain does not bother you. Does water still enter Fariba's house? No, pick up the broom. Dear mom, look at me. Be careful to place it next to the wall. don't you have work what do you want to do we have to go we have work May God be with you. what do you want to do First, I will separate this pipe. Remove this, you need another tube. it is good Raise this. Did you take the stones out? Yes, bring a small stone, I will install this pipe here. Girls, whoever is in the room, bring me the ax. why are you yelling we were scared why are you scared That's great, dear, I have to chop wood and turn on the heater. bring the ax what happened He wanted to sleep when he got hurt. Thank God that his eyes were not damaged. Oh my god, did your wool get damaged? no my god calm down my girl Bring a handkerchief, it's okay, my dear. Thank God it did not enter your eyes. Bring him a handkerchief, now I will tell you what happened. He wanted to sleep, this bar was here. The pillow caused this to rise and hit the patient's under eye. God Yemen I swept here, why didn't I see this? Thank God it didn't get into his eyes. I am in a lot of pain. Your eye was almost damaged. thank god We must definitely help a needy person who is far away. Your hands are clean, clean his wound. My hand is dirty. Cobra, you do it. My daughter, try not to cry. Thank God that your eyes were not hurt, my dear. My dear girl, don't cry. Tears prevent your wound from healing. Don't cry baby, raise your head. open your eyes Hold your head up, don't cry my dear girl. give it to me I will chop and bring some firewood. May God have mercy on us and rest in peace my dear girl. where is the firewood next to the tent Girls, come and bring the oil. From now on, on sunny days, we break and prepare firewood. Bring the match, I hope the smoke doesn't enter the room. Smoke does not enter. Don't worry, God will kill me for you, my dear girl. Don't cry, baby, calm down, baby, I won't cry anymore because of your hurt. why Because Abbas said, please don't cry because you are worrying me, don't do anything with your wound. God has mercy on my daughter. If a room fell and your eye was damaged, I would die. Don't cry, my dear girl, my girl, bring some ashes. Pour oil on the ash. Abbas Mes Ghoshd, when I cried, tears entered my mouth and I realized that the tears were salty. (Reading the Shahnameh) Don't you read anymore, my son? My eyes hurt. Maybe there is a problem with your glasses? I have to see a doctor. What happened to the end of the story? Finally, they decided to fight somewhere far from Iran and Turan. I will visit the doctor very soon to find out what is the problem with my eyes (reading the Shahnameh) . When the water collects here, pour it down. Give me the broom. There is a lot of water in the wheelbarrow. I am going to fetch Arash. don't do this