Why was this small, basic looking phone the best one of the top selling phones of all time? This K750 with its tiny 1.8 in screen, looks like messaging. But don't be fooled by its decidedly the rear lies a camera that challenged not just shoot cameras. Most phones at the time were still featured a 2 megapixel camera. In a phone so small carrying a point and shoot camera. With this phone these, and 17 years later you can still take an the K750 has a memory card slot. A feature that time. Though it does use Sony's proprietary Memory came with a 64 MB card. With higher capacity cards you were savvy enough, you found that you could with 2 GB Micro SD cards being released the a less expensive option. This is a dual Micro SD to get one of these, this combines both Micro SD get a whopping 4 GB of storage, years before And all this storage was useful for the other [Music] Sony Ericsson also released the to the K750. Except for the different housing, and they included a 512 MB memory is slightly different to the K750. It has an But with the hardware being identical, if you firmware onto a K750, and get all the features of not only your camera, but also your iPod. All with and W800 come without a headphone jack. You needed to plug your headphones into. Ahowing us just phone really was. It should be noted that the suffix having become so universal on phone model Even Sony Ericsson sometimes began leaving off like it can do much with a small screen. But course there are themes for personalizing the themes being made and shared along the way. ability to schedule your calendar, have tasks probably the most useful function buried down There's also a built-in web browser included. really was. It's interesting to note that the video. But with 2G speeds topping out about as 40 kilobytes per second under standard that streaming was available in real time seems like a bit of an understatement. Let's player. &quot;different things like that you're like Lahey.&quot; &quot;I owe you&quot;. You could watch And you can bet I did that with comedy episode on hand was well worth This video is being decoded on the ARM CPU running Java Micro Edition or j2me apps were becoming a K750 really shows its ability. With the inbuilt And of course AeroMission 3D, what an amazing game done. But of course you can also add third party thousands and thousands of these apps and games. phones to the more advanced phones in later years. With early Java games having been made for lower fill the whole screen on the K750. Such as this of the screen. Though I really like this game. The K750 includes an 8-way joystick. Which is used works quite well for some games. But many games keypad controls. There are also games made for Such as this version of Quake. You can only see a the K750. Even if a game fits or re-scales to the for this phone. Asphalt 3 3D is a good example. has terrible responsiveness, and it's just really out of the thousands of possibilities is quite a Ridge Racer does quite well. Especially for a it looks good. The controls seem fairly sensitive Racing games do seem to do well on here. I like the sideways display action. But again Another style of game that such as Borders Ball. The flippers are though. This might work better on another very responsive. It's got really nice There are also some retro style games available. I also really like the look of Tempest on here. Bobby Carrot 5 Forever. I've only played a bit so The controls are really good and it plays really playable on the K750. [Music] There are just so the surface with what can be played on here. And things like a scientific calculator, there's also That takes its time with generating The K750 was an amazing phone. One of the best was in its prime. But it could do something even could be software modded with firmware patches. Format files. That essentially means it could jailbreaking or rooting does today. It was a big part of this was the SE-NSE Forum. A place to share information. And make Sony Ericsson an awesome community, one of my favorites. There and always more being added. From basic things a button. To complete control of the firmware. firmware, that ran completely outside of the Java you needed was the USB cable that was included Manager with the Sony Ericsson Flash Plug-in But I'm finding this is not working on my K750, Ericsson pinout for this bottom connector shows on here? Some sort of Mandala Effect? OK, well hardcores would build a serial cable. This could bricked so hard, that the USB boot loader was cable was usually enough if you knew what you were advantage today. With the original USB driver hack your Sony Ericsson using a modern operating course I had to build one, using one of these modify a phone connector and get it all wired up. this phone has been hacked in the past by someone Ericsson research and development firmware, often used by early modders to do unofficial I'm getting a lot of loader errors and I'm unable turn to the SE-NSE Forum at this point, but it been lost today or scattered around the internet. But if I have to be defeated by a phone, I'm phones ever made. I also still have here my many of the firmware patches I applied. Though properly. It's been about 15 years since I out the joystick has become unreliable. And it's of what's possible. This is not the end, Sony do have some nice scene demos running in Java topic for the time being. I'd like to say hello if you made it this far into the video, I have wait to show them to you. I really appreciate enjoying these videos. But that's it for the