No, sir. [Crew] Alright, I'm gonna go turn the hose on. Ahhh. Ahhhh God. Oh, Goodbye feet. This is . . . ha I'm not looking forward to this. two, one. Why am I in an ice bath, you're asking yourself? Well, we will get to that. you'd walk into a friend's house and you but there's like a It might be the leftover smells from cooking the actual physical house itself, you know, Well, as you consider the unique a realization flashes through your Maybe I'm the stinky kid. talks about my house smelling. me to the party on Friday. what we were talking about. you in the name of science that and you just can't smell it. Well it's thanks to an absolutely weird sensory adaptation that in countless ways without even realizing. This ice water bath is actually no longer because the receptors have stopped firing in response to this ice condition, and they're no longer screaming of surprising ways that sensory in different sensory systems. without this very strange phenomenon, overwhelmed, unable to Okay. God, get me out of here. Woo! Ah, that's better. Sensory adaptation is happening in at least one of your sensory systems. When you place your hand on a table, and then you just suddenly don't. downward push on your body something like jump and land gravitational deceleration. I'm gonna assume you're wearing clothes right now because that makes this much less weird you feel their texture but within seconds and for the rest of the day, you don't even know that they're To understand why this happens, and consider what it around you and how you actually Your brain is sitting in a silent, dark, squishy trying to makes sense of build a picture of the external universe? The answer is our senses. Well your body is covered that each respond to specific types of detected by one of these sensory For example, eye causes chemical changes These chemical changes set off in the form of nerve impulses that reach the central nervous system. Consider this. your body is being bombarded by countless signals containing information about the external world. And these signals arrive light and heat, sound wave pressure, even molecular vibrations in The job of a sensory cell is of energy into a form that the brain can But if our brains are overwhelmed then interpreting those We can't efficiently So to avoid being overwhelmed by detection for our senses to make sure arrives in our brain is the For many of your senses, of detection is ridiculously a completely dark night, on top of a mountain 30 miles away. We could hear the tick of or smell a single drop of In the real world though, we're that test the absolute More often, the question is how different do two stimuli have to be This is known as the just noticeable to detect minute differences Parents are able to pick out the sound among the chaotic tornado Trust me, I've been there. theater and someone nearby opens Not cool. in the dark environment and But if someone opens their or something, then you The absolute brightness cases, but your ability to detect it depends stimulus is compared to the background or not we perceive a depends on the percentage difference And that percentage varies depending illumination must differ by That means we can tell the with only a small change but it takes a bigger difference in two brightly lit rooms. in weight of just 2% and we can detect differences of less that one half of a percent. Did you hear a difference? gradually following the and down the page, in the size of text between the lines? block of text, and attempt to read are you able to notice the difference change from line to line? And did behind the text slowly changed Go ahead, rewind it and check it out. These examples show you how between stimuli can be a really huge challenge So it's crucial that your body tunes everything that isn't important And this is where sensory adaptation comes in. changes the strength of a sensation Let's see how that works in And you might have been taught vision, hearing, smell, taste, and touch. In reality, we have far more than just five. movement, pain, and temperature just to name some. in your visual system, at the back of your eye And it even happens in the cells that process This is an American flag Stare at that mark Don't move your eyes. I know this feels weird, And now when you stare at the white, of the flag in its normal colors. So what happened? sensitive cone photoreceptors are exposed to constant stimulus, and they're tuned down so that they don't fire. your red and green sensitive cones were tuned down of your retina when white light hit. your blue and green cones were tuned down and only your red cones fired That's why you saw an afterimage cones were turned back Just because I'm in the mood let's look at another one Stare at the dot the center of this image. Just relax, keep your eyes centered right there. strangely colored picture Almost there. And now when the image changes, Except if you move your eyes you see that you're actually looking Again, if you wanna rewind and do that again I will wait right here. It's bonkers. When certain sensory cells they're quickly tuned down But if that's true, then when we stare why does the image not just disappear Well because, unnoticed by you or me, our eyes are always moving little flutters called saccades on our visual receptors is always changing. sensory adaptation involving temperature But warning, this show will for any freak outs you or others experience Here's what you're gonna One's ice water, one's room temperature water, hot to touch of course. in the ice water and one hand (fast forward sounds) What do you feel? The room temperature water feels warm to the hand and cold to the hand that Even though both hands are you perceive a different sensory experience. listening to the cold receptors So only the warm receptors are firing there. it tuned down its warm receptors room temperature water. That's because your senses not absolute measurements. Interestingly, we can also see adaptation Your hearing can adapt extremely When you detect loud sustained there's a small muscle in and dampens the vibrations in order to protect your eardrum However, this muscular mute button takes a few seconds to engage. like a gunshot, which can still Now obviously, in a quiet room, friend speaking next to you, in a situation where you can to you in the middle of loud concert or something. in your inner ear from the concert and stop firing can focus on the new thing your friend's voice. train tracks or a loud highway, After repeated exposure to or vehicles going by, you But if someone visits you they might ask you how you're able to stand it. One of the weirdest types of with your sense of proprioception, Back in the 1890s, that flipped, reflected his And after wearing these for five days, His brain had adapted and so that the world just looked rightside up. This tells us something important, at the level of the It also happens areas of your brain. and makes me question if Psychologists put people and it makes a light go on. and flash are totally in sync. Now what's weird is the sensation of your finger of light hitting your eyes, in your brain because different parts But your brain is motor sensory feedback tests. one who did something, synchronized with that action. brain says, I'm going to adjust the timing at different times so that and the sensation in my finger I expect should happen. But then the researchers make a little tweak after you push the button. It adjusts your perception of the timing to right when you push the button, it adapts your senses and out of sync things match up. And it gets weirder. millisecond delay, they get rid of the delay in sync with the button push again. the flash happening Cause and effect get completely And then of course there's smell. that you are capable specific smell sensory receptor, And these smell receptors firing alone or brain the perception But if you're around a smell for a few minutes, and stop firing. They stop sending what your body craves is new stimuli. on whatever the basic background level is something novel when it arrives. or some delicious Indian food, for a few minutes, but then they fade. But if a what are you eating, that smells amazing? even though it definitely has a smell. Even though you definitely It's the same if you wear perfume or if you smoke. But literally everyone around you You tune out all of these These are examples of adaptation but literally every sensory system And more often than you realize. to a constant stimulation, But this actually provides a benefit. in your environment while Without it, you'd be absolutely overwhelmed. disorders have trouble tuning their senses Our sensory systems constantly They get bored with repetition. so they can wait for This is why YouTubers use jump cuts to maintain your attention Okay guys, let's just tone it down a little bit. This is a good reminder that what you sense is only a fraction And what you perceive is only At least your brain's trying to even if it doesn't always Hey friends. Thank you so much for sticking special thank you to everyone who supports the SENSE? You can support this show and help us it out in the link in the description, where you you can see behind the scenes stuff, see what we whole bunch more. We'll see you in the next video, How do polar bears do this? I don't