You have hustled hard throughout all those years that justifies those years of burning the midnight oil. Top 10 Highest Paying IT Jobs for the year 2021. Also, and don't forget to hit that bell icon to never Also, consider that the rankings of this list but also the salary range and the number of job openings in mind, let's get started. Starting off our list Development might overwhelm anyone. After all, front-end or back-end developer. Also you have to keep up with the growing trends in technologies. to have certain skills. Starting with the basics technologies. Apart from these, you also need to React JS, Node.js, Angular and MongoDB. Luckily, for you has all of these technologies covered in ample set of benefits for starters top-notch companies and Cognizant are all hiring full-stack developers in the U.S and nearly 9 lakhs in India. At the DevOps Engineer introduces the team to different throughout the software development life cycle, and updating the app in an organization. to have certain skill-set in place. Definitely them. Apart from these you need to know tools A key skill to have is also having the knowledge average salary of 114, 000 U.S dollars or 21 lakhs top-notch companies such as SAP, MacAfee and Oracle this you need to have a very structured learning programs, will give you that approach so that It will also provide you with hands-on experience you towards your goal into landing these the Data Scientist. Now, data scientists allow every day. It's no surprise, companies rely on out trends and patterns in the market and convey which is why data scientists perform a pivotal you need to have a certain skillset. Starting as well as a command over programming languages, need to know Database technologies and let's All of this can be provided to you through Edureka. Now, as a data scientist you get an US and nearly 18.2 LPA in India by companies Next, we have the Market Intelligence Analyst. The as businesses try to keep up and engage their research to form informed business decisions. Now, a Market Intelligence Analyst basically tells the market and how much are they willing to pay these people examine market conditions for a this, they need a very specific skill set including content marketing, email and mobile marketing, Now, companies such as Etsy, eBay Walmart and 136,000 USD or 13.1 LPA in India. Now, if particular job role for your career, chances are At number six, we have the IT Program is a strategic project management professional technical aspects of a project. Now, in essence they and help in troubleshooting. In case issues of the development team, stakeholders and external organization. While also scheduling tasks and while no company in this day and age can function are hiring heavily for this position, this includes really high average salaries of about 136, 000 dollars At number five we have the Software Architect. Now, software systems and solutions for a company. They adopted by the dev team to produce high-performing work, you might have to create software systems already existing pipelines. Apart from that, you between your Dev team and your managers and clients. It is reckoned to get hired for this job programming languages such as Java, PHP, C++ of converting software characteristics such as streamlined structured solution which aligns with and for that you shall be rewarded highly with an from high paying companies such Moving up on our list we have the Network Security Engineer. that protects your computer networks from threats to quarantine the virus, malware and spyware in some people you should be reaching out to. Now investigations in your computer network, to seek violations conduct penetration testing, set up security and set up firewalls, to protect sensitive data. Now, be well versed in certain topics, including data and network security, Apart from that you also need to understand risk management in testing and encryption tools. Now, there are in average in the US and 26 Lakhs in India. FireEye, HackerOne, IBM and Cisco, with that we we have the Data Engineer. Now, Data Engineer the data ecosystem of an organization. They are and processing data from different applications, database architectures in several companies. and programming equips these data engineers to success. Apart from that, they also have to be real-time processing frameworks, database a sound understanding of Operating Systems like Linux and Ernst &amp; Young are all paying high salaries At number two, we have the Cloud Architect. Now, take all the requirements of a cloud-based project will guide the final product. Oftentimes, they business problems and cloud solutions so as a an understanding of an OS like Unix or Linux, cloud vendors such as AWS, GSP and Azure. Edureka has proficient in cloud computing and add to your companies such as Google, Amazon, Microsoft to cloud computing experts and 16 LPA in India. at number one we have Artificial Intelligence do they build and test AIML models of course! It's where it can surpass the human decision and based off of more facts which is why AI and ML Engineers the ones leading the path into our future. But you We can start out by learning essential math programming language with a rich library of You also need to know the tools and technologies Neural Networks. Now are you a little worried, AI and ML training programs which are curated to there are companies brilliant pay masters such as an average salary of 171,000 US dollars or 20 lpa a few other job profiles ,which we just couldn't Blockchain Engineers, Enterprise Architects, RPA these job profiles also pay quite handsomely and land a spot on our list the next year. With that, I Paying Jobs in the year 2021. Kindly leave us with With that, I conclude my list. My name is Upasana