A murderous British-American multi-millionaire on being dismembered and thrown to the sharks; if you can help get him arrested. Listen carefully because there's a minimum reward leads to the arrest of any of these people. May 12, 2012. Burbank, Illinois. There's A now-married couple, 24-year-old Arnoldo Jimenez have just looked under God to love and to cherish each Which happened a few hours later when Carrera wearing her silver sequined cocktail dress, Spouses murdering spouses is nothing new, it's but murder after just a few hours What kind of maniac would do such a thing? There were early signs that Jimenez might possessive of Carrera, and at six feet tall lover. The two had a two-year-old son, and another relationship - a straight-A student According to one of Carrera's friends, the was that Jimenez had been threatening to take and that was the last time I talked The two didn't want to invite many people at the out to a Mexican restaurant to celebrate, happened next, we don't know. We do know that the Jimenez called his sister and told her he'd fight led to him becoming the 522nd fugitive Carrera's body was found sometime later, her pretty dress bloodied and her body showing Jimenez, was last seen driving a 2006 L641441. The background check showed he'd but in another state with another woman. after, but it's expected he might possibly to the area of Santiago Papasquiaro. in Mexico. We know that his phone was tracked Arkansas. It was last used in Hidalgo, Texas, near Jimenez is charged with first-degree murder in flight to avoid prosecution. As with all these call 1-800-CALL-FBI or if outside of the This next crime is beyond brutal. July 29, 2000. 5-year old Iriana house with her sister in the Hunting It's hard to say what happened next, but she was walking down the street with a man. frantically, asking where her daughter had gone police and the community searched high and nightmare became a reality. Iriana was found some rolls of carpet. She'd been strangled. unmistakable due to its unique political logo. that t-shirt. He'd lent it to a homeless guy given him some clothes and some odd jobs to do. for seven long years, the police had no idea what Before we tell you more about this man, we should time in the US, so why do some fugitives get There are criteria, although it's quite vague. but that's pretty obvious. Another main reason is publicity will be the best way to capture them. the charges are dropped, or they no longer 529 fugitives have been added to the list, with 31 percent being captured directly The FBI believes that by letting people see touch with them. Maybe you've even met him. although he's lied a lot about his date of including Mario Flores, Mario Alex Contreras, and Alesis Contreras. weighing around 140 pounds. He has black hair and That could be a lot of people, but if you met has the word "Alexis" tattooed on his left hand He also has quite a large scar on his neck and happened to him during 1998's Hurricane Mitch. had him not once but twice, but at the time, they just a short time after he'd killed the girl, he he was arrested again. Cops had been called about the noise, and when they looked at Police reports said the man was friendly and calm, they discovered pornographic material lying prior to living in Arizona, he'd lived in the forgery of a document, and as soon as he It was only later that investigators linked He's now been charged with murder as prosecution. You might be watching this in but there's every chance Flores US and is currently living under a new name. countless people's lives. Right now, there are just 11 women on the hundreds of names. And to no surprise, Ruja you could call her a princess of darkness. She's That's because, with her fake cryptocurrency, This Bulgarian-born German national looked like a cryptocurrency that was going scheme and a Ponzi scheme all at the same time. but a currency hosted on OneCoin's own servers. investors to join the scheme, the pyramid part. To with new investors' money - what might be called Ignatova and others behind the scam banked investors and young folks thinking they could get In the UK alone, regular folks and larger people, we are talking about their life savings. We know that Ignatova was born in 1980 to After moving to Germany, she worked in legit also studied European law at Oxford University, What's certain, though, is she did have We imagine all the people endorsing her on her because in 2017, when she was tipped off that into thin air. That's some feat when your name has been seen all over the world. She boarded and has never been seen again, or at least, the The FBI says she "conned unsuspecting victims out OneCoin would be the "Bitcoin killer." The truth toilet paper. Investigations showed that when she called the first investors "idiots" and for what they were doing, they should "take This is an incredibly smart woman, someone friends that one day, she'd be rich. At a and in later life, she became fluent She was smart enough to go missing when their money back. Her business partner, Karl plush house on the island of Koh Samui in He's now serving 20 years in prison, his Koh Samui beach tan a distant memory. But long ago that she'd tried to sell a swanky tried to do this anonymously through agents, but There is no doubt she still has many deal of money. Those billions she stole are for her to get caught. It's very possible so she might look somewhat different. It's also team a lot of money to keep her safe. she spent some time in Athens, Greece, and or even gone back to Germany. But the FBI some other part of Eastern Europe, or might even will give you $100,000 for information that leads there would give you more than that. never be found, or at least in one piece. aboard a yacht in 2018 on the orders of the One of his henchmen, who's currently locked up is supposed to have killed her, chopped her up, mainland Greece. The reason is that Amanatidis to go. Amanatidis is still at large, possibly in Ignatova, and as they watch this video from their Now for some more American grime. In 2019, a 46-year-old man was standing in a small suburban neighborhood in the when he was gunned down. That man was who worked his butt off at a local trash This is why Dumas' family and relatives were had happened. A man walked toward fired off nine rounds from a semi-automatic the head and almost severed his brain, which This didn't happen in the dead of night a few witnesses. One of them described the light-complexioned, with noticeable, Police later watched CCTV footage and had walked onto the 11900 block of Foothill Icon Barber Shop. Around this time, Cardenas Later, the CCTV camera catches seemingly trying to tuck something into his jeans. It turned out that Dumas had left the barber cashier in the discount store later said she good mood, complimenting her and how he was standing against a pillar The question is, why? Why such an awful We may never know. Maybe these two had had a who is known to have been a gang member, had an also known by his gang friends as execute Dumas. Cardenas has connections to named Pacoima Van Nuys Boys - Anybody Killas. living a straight life, news reports suggest part of the gang life. Investigators said it man had run with a group who could have Whatever the case, a son is missing There's every chance that someone watching The FBI says he might have fled working as a construction worker. Let's now show how effective the FBI's Wanted List In 2012, a wealthy Californian businessman named High school sweethearts, and parent of his three very sour. It seems they'd been arguing about a That day their kids, aged 8, 10, and 14, born in the UK, at first blamed a handyman but that didn't make any sense to the police. dumpster, and a lengthy investigation was million in bail to stay out of jail as the case like Chadwick was going down for the murder, He emptied some bank accounts of what million. With so much money, he didn't seem to a bunch of aliases and fake IDs and worked odd he must have run out of money and although it's thought he might have Mexican kids English, just to pass the time. and people heard about the $100,000 reward on people's TVs and computer screens, him bussing tables at a tourist restaurant Working with this information, Mexican and him back to justice in the US after five the authorities that tip, but the press result of announcing that $100,000 was up "We received a tip with some general pinpoint Mr. Chadwick's exact location." killer would have been caught by now. April 12, 2015. It's about both working the night shift at Maryland, walk out of view of the CCTV Moments later, the man emerges and walks out of view again. What's just waiting customers wondered why no one was serving The man, Bhadreshkumar Chetanbhai Palak Bhadreskumar Patel, was 21. Both where relatives of Bhadreshkumar and settle into the American way of life. Because when they turned that corner, bashing her with his fists and then driving a It was horrific even for the authorities, who What would compel a husband to do something lives ahead of them. They seemed to get at the restaurant later said to the press, "I Behind the mask of young love, problems had been the US, but those visas were about to expire. They a step that was considerably different in both the US and try becoming a fully-fledged American, On the evening of the crime, one of Palak's expressed that she was leaving the States, and was Bhadreshkumar, who was enraged at hearing But where is he? There's no evidence that he would be very difficult, considering his that just after the murder, he walked and got a cab to an airport in Newark, New his passenger seemed friendly and calm. In After a night in the hotel, he went but it's suspected he might have had relatives Newark Penn Station. Where he went after that is he's still in the US, likely with the assistance Jersey, Kentucky, Georgia, and Illinois, An FBI spokesperson expressed confidence in his help we will finally bring him back." Still, like so if you want to claim your $100,000, but refrain from getting too close to him. in this man's vicinity at some point, so remember you can also write to tips.fbi.gov. very dangerous, so again, don't approach him. On November 26, 1998, the bundle of screaming into existence. What went wrong but we can say with confidence that this When Castillo was just 17, the age he was when he was working at the Showmars restaurant in was 23-year-old Truc Quan "Sandy" Ly Le. relationship was far from a happy one. They that she had lent him some cash. On August that stated he was ready to pay back the That night Castillo was with his new Le met with the pair that night at QuikTrip on but later, Le went to an ATM and withdrew gun was pointing at her back. She went missing dumped in some woods along Robinson been shot in the head, execution style. that they were looking for a male, 5-foot-6 and were also looking for Miss Feaster. Rather Community College as she was supposed to, she was later found nearby, while Le's 2003 Toyota We know exactly what happened next because the two backpacks full of the necessities for a short for many years now, but the FBI is pretty sure it he's still in Mexico, possibly in the cities of but he might have returned to the US. under an alias, possibly Alejandro Rosales, or Alejandro Rosalescastillo. in Texas, in 2016. There's not much out but news reports in 2017 said she was out on all, according to people close to the case. "Was she afraid of him?" "Certainly. She would've been home, if If only she'd gone to college that week, There's no news about the outcome of her possession of a stolen vehicle and accessory he will deservedly spend much of his life, Ok, last but not least, and arguably the someone who's so sought after that if you can help million bucks. You heard that right. You might be thinking, why on earth would the US person like me? The answer is MS-13, which Carias, At five feet five and 160 pounds, Mr. Carias but a lesson many of us learn the hard way At 41 years old, this Honduran man scares and for a good reason. He's surrounded by an army He leads a gang whose doctrine is to be utterly, enemies, they make sickening bloody statements They torture people for fun, bringing a Game of many other cities. Numerous news reports state of people they've murdered. They're so cruel and An American attorney charged with "Their weapon of choice is a machete. that I've never seen before. You know, limbs like that we're recovering. So they're brutal." MS-13 likes to recruit people when they are young souls of society, the kids without parents, the traumas. And thanks to the unwinnable war on told that if they stick with the gang, they might begging or the $277 they can get on average per fields. A young member in America can make Since there's been so much poverty in many there's been no shortage of boys and young men with their first never-to-be-used-in-a-garden but if they were, Carius would be the King "Arise! I do hereby dub thee Sir. I maketh thee the Heart Extracter of There might be ten thousand MS-13 gang 50,000 members all over the world, including Korea, France, Australia, Peru, Egypt, Ecuador, showing how extreme they are willing to be. the leaders won't be easy. Carius can hide also difficult getting people to speak, death squads to commit small massacres. That's hard to say. MS-13 doesn't have a too thuggish to have principles around conduct It's also way too spread out to have one man Nonetheless, the FBI says Carias and one of the main reasons why there's so many US. He's supposedly behind multi-ton shipments The FBI will give you $100,000 for information will come from the Department of State Enforcement Affairs. If you don't mind risking and your head decorating the top of a rusty But this massive prize is not targeted at on the inside will spill the beans on the boss. crime tend to exhibit a certain kind of ruthless also a great way for an opposing gang to get reward money, as has been happening since global policy. And as you know, snitches get it's more like this BBC news report says: stabbed a man 100 times, beheaded him, and DC." We're not sure why it happened, but an "Usually when there's been a murder, it's been an informant about their activities." something like 500 MS-13 members were convicted of life sentences at an average cost of $134,400 per and this should all be over pretty soon... fascinating video, "The Coder Who Became have a look at the epic, "How Insanely Creative