(gentle music) - [Narrator] They are capturing photons racing through space. Measuring their energies and An army of high-tech instruments, including the Hubble Space Telescope, is peering into evermore They are reeling in that scientists use within models, to explain how galaxies took shape. How stars live and die. And how the universe What are we learning about and ourselves? In this age of Hubble. (uplifting classical music) &quot;There is a clarity, &quot;that simply doesn't exist on Earth&quot;, wrote the astronaut Gus Grissom. Nowhere else can you realize so fully the majesty of our Earth, that it's only one of (soaring classical music) For astronauts and stargazers, the universe beckons us How did it all come about? And how do we fit in? Are there other worlds like (rhythmic music) Today these questions by bold advances in the The Hubble Space Telescope to capture the pristine It led a fleet of space-based telescopes, sent up to probe distant galaxies. Black holes. Stars. Planets. The vantage of space allows that is blocked or distorted (tense music) From long-wave infrared light that passes through dust clouds in star-forming regions or galaxies. To high energy x-rays, or the environments of black holes. (explosion booming) By the time the light of it has traveled millions It carries with it information about how the universe Sending telescopes into space was part of a larger On mountaintops around the world scientists began building a new generation of giant telescopes. Among them, the very or VLT, in Chile. The Keck, Subaru and Gemini telescopes on the summit of Mauna Kea in Hawaii. These high-tech instruments the largest mirrors ever built. They have to be nearly flawless to capture the trickle of photons from distant reaches of the universe. The VLT mirrors, for that if you blew one its surface would vary To the powerful, light-gathering abilities of these precision mirrors, scientists added computer designed to cancel out caused by turbulence in our atmosphere. The purpose? To gain the clarity of Scientists have now added to their arsenal of discovery. (rhythmic music) Super computer programs to simulate important cosmic events. They use these virtual telescopes to literally set the universe in motion. To test theories about on the largest scales. And how objects form and interact. (gentle music) From immense galaxy clusters. Down to solar systems and planets. Among the most important is a deepening sense of that define the universe. Based on their view of the night sky, the Ancient Greeks saw Earth The philosopher Aristotle 55 celestial spheres, that predicted the positions within them. &quot;The stars,&quot; he said, &quot;are &quot;not found on Earth. &quot;Thus the outer spheres they Centuries later scientists would learn that Earth revolves around the sun in an assemblage of planets. A solar system. A century ago they deduced that our sun is one of billions of other stars moving around a disc-like structure. The galaxy. What lay beyond this island universe? How far did space extend? Working with the new 100 inch telescope on California's Mount Wilson, and an assistant named Milt of blurry patches of They found that these patches unto themselves, located Many of them, in fact, The further away they are These findings sparked the of the universe. It's much larger than we imagined, filled with countless galaxies and growing larger all the time. Over six decades later scientists launched Hubble's namesake. A telescope in space to he helped define. (tense music) The cosmic expansion rate, as well as a scale for Knowing these two numbers to establish a timeline going all the way back to (dramatic music) The starting point comes to cosmic microwave background radiation. Light emitted not long (tense music) Reading this light, the COBE, showed that the universe began in its density. Gravity sculpted the we now see in our telescopes. (dramatic music) Our galaxy and its neighbors the Virgo Cluster, some 50 It's at the center of a super cluster 10,000 galaxies strong. (soaring classical music) From this intergalactic hub filaments of galaxies extend forming a vast luminous web. (soaring choral music) How far out does this cosmic web extend? How did it come to be? Using a combination of Hubble they looked for a type of sun-like star that had burned itself If one of these tiny dense remnants happens to orbit another it may begin to draw At a critical threshold, a thermonuclear reaction. (dramatic music) These type 1A supernovae are thought to all explode in the same way with the same luminosity, And because they are so bright, they are ideal for It's like looking at cars approaching on a highway. The dimmer they appear, But when astronomers began they noticed something unexpected. They combined their brightness How far their light The larger the shift, the since the star had exploded. Some explosions looked based on their red shift. That meant their light had to reach us. (dramatic music) That led astronomers to conclude that the cosmic expansion rate was slower in the deep past. It must have accelerated its current size. The force causing space to Scientists refer to it as dark energy. And it may be all around us. Far from being empty, the vacuum of space is filled with energy that constantly wells up of opposite charge. Matter and anti-matter. According to a theory that the universe began when this into a higher energy state, causing space and time (gentle music) Tiny fluctuations in the primordial energy generated pressure waves or ripples. They gave rise to density variations which gravity amplified over time into the web-like structure Taking cosmic expansion into account, galaxies out at the edge are 46 billion light years There may be much more to it. The fury of cosmic inflation would've caused the universe to cosmological size, within The universe, as a whole, 10 billion trillion times the size of the observable universe. Put another way, the new theory says the whole universe is to (dramatic music) as the observable universe is to an atom. So where does that leave us Since the discoveries of the we find ourselves confined to an ever smaller corner of creation. And yet in this age of Hubble, we have learned just how of the universe. And of a great cosmic continuum that reaches back to (upbeat music) In a sense, our own story looms large. It began with the earliest at a time when the universe When the first stars formed oxygen and carbon in their cores. Some exploded, generating heavier elements like iron or gold or magnesium. Whilst spreading these in the form of dust. One supernova was spotted in the year 1054 AD. Astronomers have been poring over the expanding cloud of gas What they found is that that roared out of the blast contained large volumes of dust. An array of mostly carbon that absorb visible light. These solid particles are crucial for the formation of solar systems. Within the Crab Nebula to make some 30 to 40,000 Earths. Over time, and after dust has collected in dense But dust grains can be found throughout intergalactic space as well. Some might have come from There is another source as well. Since the 1960s, astronomers bright beacons of light that shine from the centers A quasar's power source, they found, is a black hole that even billions of times (rhythmic music) The thinking is that a disc of matter that's drawn by its extreme gravity. These fields channel a portion out into powerful particle beams. The jet is part of a larger rush of matter away from the black hole. Black hole winds are now thought on the universe at large. You can see it in this simulation of early cosmic evolution. From a starting point 12 this computer simulation of a cosmic patch some 350 Within the volume of this simulation, tens of thousands of galaxies take shape all along the strands of the cosmic web. (dramatic music) Where the filaments intersect something happens that of every galaxy, star and planet. Gigantic bubbles of hot gas (gentle guitar music) They form when matter flows and gets blasted out by lurking in their cores. In time, these hot bubbles and dust created in earlier The bubbles squish out well This has the effect of that can fall into central regions. (rhythmic music) Galaxies all around the to this dusty legacy. (gentle piano music) The bright central region of is surrounded by dark, dusty lanes. In spiral galaxies, the most common type, hot winds from exploding stars helped push these clouds As well as above and You can see evidence of this of the Milky Way galaxy. Dark dust lanes and ominous clouds dominate our view into the disc, while tendrils of dust reach far above it. Here, above the plane of the galaxy, just 400 light years from Earth, is a dense, irregular cloud Our sun, our solar system, likely formed in a cloud like this. Lupus 4 may one day give rise to a star cluster like NGC 3590. A region of dust and glowing gas near the plane of the galaxy. These young stars were probably within the same cloud. The manufacture and spread of dust is an ongoing process in our galaxy. Consider the Carina Nebula. Located 7500 light years away, it spans some 250 light years across. At its center is the one of the largest and most unstable stars known in our galaxy. It is surrounded by an of dust and gas, known as the Homunculus, or Little Man in Latin. Astronomers believe it was expelled during what they call the great eruption in the years 1838 to 1845. With a mass over 100 this star could explode at any time. And yet in the larger stars are being born at a fever pitch. Here a pillar of dust is being eroded by a torrent of ultraviolet light, from hot massive stars nearby. (gentle music) A dense region at the top giving a young star time to incubate. Gas and dust flowing into the star are being blasted out in Of all the constellations, few attract more admirers than Orion. Within it is a stargazer's dream. The great Orion Nebula. A luminous castle of gas and It's roughly the size of At its heart is a star a brilliant formation first It pumps out a wind of that causes the These large stars omit that collied with dust clouds, forming a frothy landscape These winds are also disrupting the growth of hundreds of solar Despite these winds, some to come to life. (soaring music) Using the Hubble Space Telescope, scientists have been drawing them out of their bright and hazy surroundings. Thousands of solar systems are being born in and around the Orion Nebula, in a rich chemical soup provided Amid all the dust, huge volumes of water. Where does it come from In some cases, water is the When a medium-sized star like our sun uses up the hydrogen in its shedding its outer layers. The Helix Nebula is a into a colorful ring of A tiny remnant of the original scours the ring with that destroys particular compounds, including carbon monoxide. The oxygen that's set free in a molecule that forms water. Dying stars are not the 750 light years from Earth is shooting matter out in high speed jets containing oxygen and hydrogen. When these molecules they form water at a rate of the Amazon River. (uplifting music) Water then becomes part of the dynamic of a solar system's birth. Scientists have sought the formation of planets by simulating it in a super computer. Gravity causes a central and dust and gas to flow in. It forms a disc that swirls Along the way water acts like a glue, allowing dust grains to form larger bodies from rocks to comets, Up on the high deserts of Chile astronomers have been using sub-millimeter telescope array to peer into the turbulent environments of newly born stars. (dramatic music) One of them, 450 light years The star is no more but there are signs that planet formation is already underway. Its hot core is cocooned the solar nebula. As matter flowed into the star, it has settled into a (gentle music) This disc has a series of telltale grooves where the gravity of planets Dust within the solar nebula carries all the material needed to build a planet like ours, So how did Earth get its water? (rhythmic music) The answer may begin with our star. As the sun vents heat from it generates a steady wind of protons that reach to the edges This wind encounters dust particles that are wafting through the solar system, attracted by the gravity of planets. Some 40,000 tons of dust and rocks rain down onto the Earth each year. Leftovers from the birth four to five billion years ago. Interplanetary dust has long been known to carry organic or carbon compounds, able to survive the journey Scientists recently found something else on the dust particles themselves. Hydrogen ions, or protons, strike these particles. When these protons interact with oxygen and silicate mineral grains, which then cling to the particles. This process was documented picked up by Apollo astronauts. It may be the source of water ice that has collected in the and is strewn about lunar landscapes. In addition to watery dust this may explain how comets and asteroids were able to generate stores of water and to bring them down to Earth. Given that water is created it's not surprising that it At its edges, Pluto and its moon Charon are lined with a thick and water ice. (rhythmic music) The blue planets Neptune and Uranus get their color from the methane clouds that make up their frigid atmospheres. Within, charged particles circulate in a sea of liquid water, producing electrical Within the folds of Saturn's rings are countless particles of ice. Hovering just above them with an icy surface that makes it one of the brightest objects The Cassini spacecraft shooting out of its south pole. Scientists believe they are launched by the squeezing The largest planet, Jupiter, harbors its own storehouse of water. The storms that drift along its surface are the result of water vapor rising and falling like thunderstorms. Beyond Jupiter's roiling Jupiter's second moon, Europa. Its bright smooth surface is crisscrossed by channels and grooves in an ocean of liquid water Then there's Earth, a water planet. Vast interconnected bodies cover 71% of its surface. And now scientists have hidden in rocks deep inside the planet. The story of dust and water is of how life can arise. These two components can be But does life inevitably follow? For now Earth remains our only data point among the thousands, even that may be out there. The age of Hubble has of how we emerged in a universe that is immense beyond imagining. We have only begun to discern its limits. New data supports theories in a furious expansion. Because science is fundamentally concerned with events that repeat in nature, some inflationary theories in an even broader cosmic landscape. (tense music) The idea is that universes, extend out into the voids of infinity. The age of Hubble has in our understanding of the universe. (dramatic music) It is surely only the to know how it all fits together. Where we came from. And what the stars might tell us of our place in the For astronauts and other stargazers there is both a sense as we lock our gaze on the heavens, searching for the secrets of creation emblazoned on the night sky. (tense music) (soaring choral music) (gentle music)