- [Andrew Huberman] Welcome where we discuss science for everyday life. [bright music] - I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we're going to talk We are also going to talk about trauma and post-traumatic stress disorders. The Neuroscience of fear has and in the field of psychology. However, I think it's fair to the field of Neuroscience has neural circuits, meaning that control the fear response but some important ways using behavioral and what we call brain machine interfaces. Today, we are going to and you're going to come away of the biology of fear and trauma, as well as many practical tools In fact, we are going to discuss one very recently published study in which five minutes a day of deliberate exposure to stress was shown to alleviate and fear related symptoms. We will get into the details that emerges from that study But it stands as a counter-intuitive example of to combat fear. To give you a sense of where we are going, I'll just lay out the First, I'm going to teach and trauma. Literally the cells and circuits and chemicals in the body that fear response. And why sometimes, but not I will also describe the or what we call extinguished. And there too, you're going You're going to learn for instance, that we can't just eliminate fears. We actually have to replace And again, there are tools and I will teach you those tools today. Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. I've been taking Athletic So I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still is that it covers all and probiotic needs. Nowadays, there's a lot of data out there pointing to the fact that literally little microbes that are good for us our immune system, our nervous and various aspects of our With Athletic Greens, I get all the vitamins Plus the probiotics ensure It also tastes really good. I mix mine up with some water, I'll have that early in the day, and sometimes a second time It's compatible with intermittent fasting, it's compatible with vegan diets, with keto diets and essentially every diet that you could possibly imagine out there. It's also filled with It has digestive enzymes for gut health and has a number of the immune system. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman, to claim their special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy while you're on the road. And they'll give you a year There's now a lot of supports a huge number immune system factors, endocrine factors. Basically we need vitamin D3. We can get it from the sun, but many people are even if they are getting what they think is sufficient sunlight. And K2 is important for So again, if you go to You can claim their special offer, the five free travel packs plus the year supply of vitamin D3 K2. Today's podcast is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that your immediate and long-term from a quality blood test. And now with the advent you can also get information are impacting your immediate Now a problem with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there is but you don't know what With InsideTracker, to figure out what to do into the ranges that are right for you. They have a dashboard You can see the numbers from And it will point to nutritional factors, as maybe even prescription factors that would be right for you to that are ideal for your immediate and long-term health goals. Another feature that InsideTracker has is their inner age test. This test shows you what and compares that to and what you can do to which of course is the important number. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can visit insidetracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of Just use the code huberman at checkout. Today's episode is also Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are of the absolute highest quality. I've been sleeping on a Helix mattress for close to a year now, and it's the best sleep Helix has a quiz that takes and matches your body to the perfect mattress for you. Some people sleep on their side, some people sleep on their backs, some people sleep on their stomach. Some people run hot, some people run cold. Some people don't know they sleep on. You take this test, it's And after that test Helix we'll match you to the mattress that's ideal for you. I match to the so-called because I wanted a mattress not too soft. And I like to sleep sort of on my stomach and kind of a crawling soldier position. That seems to be always how I So if you're interested in go to helixsleep.com/huberman, take their two minutes sleep quiz and they'll match it to and you'll get up to $200 and you'll get two free pillows. Again, if you're interested, please go to helixsleep.com/huberman and two free pillows. So what is fear? Well, fear falls into a category of nervous system phenomenon an emotion. And it is hotly debated nowadays. And it's been hotly debated what an emotion is and Now that's not a debate that I think it's fair to say responses within our body. Quickening of heart rate, things that we experience as a warming or a cooling of our skin. But that there's also There are thoughts, there are memories. There's all sorts of stuff and in our body that And there's a vast amount of to try and understand how many how different people experience emotions. And that's certainly a in a future podcast episode. But today I just want to talk Because when we talk about fear and as a cognitive response, then we can get down to some and some very concrete and practical tools that can be used to deal with So let's talk first about what fear isn't. Most people are familiar with stress, both as a concept and as an experience. Stress is a physiological response. It involves quickening of the heart rate. Typically quickening a breathing, blood flow getting of the brain and body and not to others. It can create a hypervigilance Typically that awareness is narrower, literally narrower in space, like a soda straw view of the world than when we are relaxed. And it is fair to say without having several, if not all of the elements However, we can have Likewise, people are or the word rather, anxiety. Anxiety tends to be stress although it can mean other things as well. We can't really have fear or experiencing some of but we can have anxiety So what you're starting to from certain basic elements And then there is trauma. And trauma also requires a specific, what we will call operational definition. An operational definition is us to have a conversation or mostly agree on what the It makes conversations much easier. In fact, I would argue if we for more things in the world, that there would be fewer and we'd all move a lot But that's another topic entirely. The operational definition of trauma is that some fear took place, which of course includes And that fear somehow gets embedded or activated in our nervous system, such that it shows up at Meaning that fear doesn't serve us well and it gets reactivated at various times. Like when you first if you're not in the presence but you suddenly have what and you're in deep fear. Well, that's post-traumatic stress. That's post-traumatic fear. So I don't want to get bogged down too much in the nomenclature but what I'm doing here is building up a sort of a series of layers form the foundation of what And then there are other phrases out there that we would be remiss if like phobias and panic attacks. Panic attacks are the but without any fear inducing stimulus. So it's kind of like trauma. And a phobia tends to be extreme Fear of spiders, fear of fear of dying, these The reason for laying all that a word soup to confuse us rather because now that we different phrases to describe and unrelated phenomenon. We can start to just focus fear and trauma. As it relates to specific specific cognitive processes. And we can start to dissect how fears are unformed can come to replace previously So in this effort to around fear and trauma, I want to point out autonomic arousal. Autonomic arousal relates to this aspect of our nervous system, that we call the autonomic nervous system. Autonomic means automatic because there are aspects of that you can control. But your autonomic nervous digestion, urination, When you want to be awake, it basically has two branches to it. Two branches, meaning One is the so-called sympathetic Has nothing to do with sympathy, it has everything to do Think of the sympathetic nervous system as the alertness nervous system. It's what ramps up your ramps up your levels of vigilant. Think about it as the and attention. The other branch of the is the so-called, parasympathetic branch of I know that's a mouthful. The parasympathetic branch of are the cells and neurons and chemicals and other aspects of your brain and body that are involved in the So sympathetic is alerting, And it acts as sort of a seesaw to adjust your overall level of alertness. So for instance, right now I'm alert, but I feel pretty calm. I'm not ready to go to I don't feel like I need a nap. I'm alert, but I'm calm. I'm not in a state of stress or panic. So that seesaw we could Maybe it's tilted up a little bit to the side of increased rather than parasympathetic If I were sleepy, the The parasympathetic side to the sympathetic side. There are many different aspects of the autonomic nervous system, but one of the main aspects is an aspect that's going to come up again it's very important that It's called the HPA axis. The HPA axis stands for The hypothalamus is a It's an area of your brain real estate, that's deep in the brain that contains many, many different areas that control things like temperature, and desire to have sex, It also controls the desire not to eat, not drink more water So it has accelerators and The hypothalamus connects the pituitary lives close It releases hormones And so the hypothalamus the release or prevent the like cortisol or the hormones to produce estrogen or testes or adrenals to produce Adrenaline. And speaking of the adrenals are the adrenals. You have two glands that and your lower back. They receive signals by and by way of hormones and other things released from the brain And they release different hormones and other types of And the two main ones that are Adrenaline also called Both of those are but they're not always involved in stress. They're also involved in when you arrive... Excuse me, when you rise from sleep. And so this HPA axis, should be thought of in the following way. The HPA axis includes the hypothalamus, the So it's a beautiful three part system that can use your brain to and prepare it for action. And it can do that in the short term, by triggering the release that make you alert and and by triggering the and hormones and other chemicals that give that alertness a very long tail, a very long latency before it shuts off. And that's important because and one of the hallmarks of trauma is that they involve fear Even if those fearful events, the events in the world can be very brief, like a as you step off the curb or something... A gunshot that goes off suddenly, and it's just a very quick, like, you know, 500 The fear response can because the chemicals that have a fast component and And the longer-lasting not just the connections of and the way that our and the way that we breathe. It actually can feed back to the brain and literally control gene expression. Which can take many days and new chemicals that can embed And that might sound very And there's an adaptive and fast phase of the HPA And fortunately, that gene expression and the long arc of the fear response, the way it kind of lives in our system kind of like a phantom in some to undo the fear response, to extinguish the fear with non fearful associations. So let's dig a little deeper and biology of fear. Because in doing that, we can start to reveal the if that's the goal. We can't have a discussion about fear without discussing the famous amygdala. Famous because I think most people by now have heard of the amygdala. Amygdala means almond. It's an almond shaped structure So you have one on the and one on the left side of your brain. The amygdala is part of what And this is very important as including a reflex. So much as you have to lift your foot up something sharp. You literally have a reflex that causes you to lift up one toward the ground. Believe it or not, you always think you you pull your foot up. But you actually step on something sharp, you pull your foot up and in pulling it up there's another reflex that's activated that as you extend your other legs so that you don't fall over. Similarly in the process you have a reflex for particular events in your brain and body. And that reflex involves things like, quickening of your heart your attentional systems pop on, increased ability to access and thought and so forth. But just like that step on all of the neural circuits with being calm, with with being able to of your environment, literally to see your entire environment, or to hear other things around you. All of those get shut down when gets activated. And the amygdala is part so much so that we can really say, that it's the final common pathway through which the threat reflex flows. In other words, the amygdala is essential But the threat reflex is kind of a dumb response. It's not a sophisticated And this is also a very important point. One of the beauties of the fear system is that it's very generalizable. It's not designed for you to Sure, there are some debates and probably some good data out there that support the fact that meaning requires no learning. Innately afraid of certain or snakes or spiders. There's debate about this. And they depends on the et cetera. But the real capacity of the fear system is that we can become afraid of anything provided that this threat in conjunction with some So the way I'd like you to is not as a fear center, but that it's a critical I'd like you to also internalize the idea that the threat reflex involves this activation of certain systems and suppression of all the systems for calming the parasympathetic system. And now I'm going to describe into and through this threat reflex. And in doing that, it will like a spider, like a snake, like a car accident, like whatever happens to scare how that gets attached to this reflex. Because this reflex is very generic. It doesn't really know It only knows how to this internal landscape So while the amygdala it's actually part of or collection of neurons That complex has anywhere depending on who's... Which neuroanatomist is naming in Neuroscience and in much of biology. We like to joke that there are lumpers and there are splitters. So some people like to draw boundaries between every little distinct difference and say, &quot;Oh, that's a separate area and other people are lumpers.&quot; And they say, &quot;Well, listen, Let's lump those together.&quot; I'm neither a lumper nor a splitter, I'm somewhere in between. I think the number 12 is a good number in terms of the number of Why is that important to us? Well, it turns out that a area for threat, it's an area for generating lots of different types of information. So for those of you that want to know, I'm going to give you some for those of you that don't, But basically information like the hippocampus and our eyes, our ears, our So taste information, vision, auditory information, touch, et cetera. Flow into the so-called lateral Flows into... Or the amygdaloid complex. It flows into the lateral portion. And then there are multiple And this is where things because the outputs of the amygdala have a lot of different areas, but there are two main pathways. One involves the hypothalamus, which you heard about before that control a lot of our for food, for thirst and And it also feeds out to our adrenals. Those glands that you learned to create a sense of alertness and action. It also feeds out what I mean is there are neurons that send wires. We call those wires axons connections. Where they can release chemicals of different brain areas. So it feeds out to other PAG is very interesting It's the periaqueductal gray. The periaqueductal gray contains neurons that can trigger freezing, Some people talk about which has kind of an appeasing But some people outright freeze We've heard of fight or flight. And indeed the pathway that I'm describing can create a sense of fight and cause people to want to lean in, in an aggressive way to combat or flight to run away. Essentially to avoid that they feel they're threatened by. Now, even in the absence of some threat, somebody that has say a might hesitate or move away from a podium or hesitate or move away If raising their hand meant and would be public speaking. So there's fight and flight, but there's also the freeze response. And the freeze response is controlled by a number of brain centers, but the periaqueductal gray, the PAG, is central for this freeze They're also create what are Many of you have heard which is a crisis of given out too broadly for who are become addicted to opioids. Those are Exogenous opioid. But Endogenous opioids are chemicals released and from elsewhere in the body that give us a sense of numbing. They actually numb us against pain. And you can imagine why biology A threat occurs or something we're afraid of it. And a natural analgesic because there's likely that's very uncomfortable. That's physically uncomfortable. So it's like we have our of these opioids and that's The other area and again, sorry to litter the conversation with these names of structures, but some people seem to enjoy You're fine if you just If you want to know the names that's fine. But the other structure The locus coeruleus by releasing Adrenaline, or related chemical into the brain. So basically the activation could be from any number a memory of something fearful. An actual sensory experience And but then the fear because of the threat And that threat reflex of other functions into action. Freezing, activation of the adrenals, activation of locus coeruleus activation of this endogenous pain system or anti-pain system in the PAG. That's one pathway out of the amygdala. The other pathway out of the amygdala is to a very interesting is associated with reward So this might come as a In fact, it came as a surprise to me. I remember when these data were published, but the amygdala complex of the Dopamine system. The so-called nucleus accumbens, the mesolimbic reward pathway, for those of you that want to look that up or that remember from We have pathways in our with pursuit, motivation and reward. And the neuromodulator for that feeling of And this threat center is and activate the Dopamine system. And later you will realize and why you can leverage in order to wire in new memories So I've been hitting you with but for the moment, even if you're interested in and structures and so forth. I'd like you to just conceptualize that you have a circuit in your brain, meaning a set of cells and connections that are arranged in the following way. You have a threat reflex that very easily, but what can depend on two things. One are prior memories that are involved in storage of memories, or it can be immediate experiences. Things are happening in the now, okay? So were something fearful your threat reflux could be activated. Where you to remember something very scary that happened to you in the past? Your threat reflex could be activated. And that threat reflex One of the major outputs is the threat response, freezing And the other major output in reward, motivation There's a fourth component. And I promise this is the last component that we need to put into this picture of the neural circuits for fear. And this is a circuit that called the prefrontal cortex So literally in the front. And it's involved in what Top-down processing is the way and other areas of the brain a reflex, okay? A good example of this would that I gave before. So when you step on a tack, you immediately pull up your foot and you extend the other leg. That's the reflex that prevents and from falling over. However, if you wanted, But if you wanted, you could for instance, place your foot onto a tack and decide not to pull your foot away. It would be difficult. And again, I don't but you could override that reflex, okay? There are other examples of reflexes, like for instance, most people will start Most people won't want to Many people will jump out. But all of that is reflexive. And should you want to, you through top-down processing. You could tell yourself, &quot;Oh, I heard on a previous or on an Instagram post can be beneficial for metabolism And indeed it can, and you can and to stretch out your and you can fight those reflexes, okay? The fighting of reflex top-down processing, largely You provide a narrative. You tell yourself, &quot;I want to Or even though I don't want So top-down processing is not just for getting into cold water, and it certainly isn't that can damage us like a It is the way in which we can override any number of internal reflexes, including the threat reflex. And the way that we do that or a new narrative to this And you know the threat response, the threat response is quickening of the breathing. We don't generally like the feeling of Adrenaline in our system. Some people are so-called and they get a mixture of from certain high intensity events. I confess in previous aspects of my life, I've tended to like Adrenaline. I don't think I was at the but I'm somebody that for I like roller coasters, where I'm familiar with and I enjoy the sensation But I enjoy it because of and the hyperacuity that it brings, many people don't feel that way. In fact, most people of a lot of Adrenaline in their system. That it makes them feel very uncomfortable and out of control. We will do an entire and Adrenaline junkies in the future. But the threat reflex inevitably involves the release of Adrenaline into the system. And then it becomes a you remain still, move forward or retreat from that Adrenaline experience. And when I say the Adrenaline experience, I mean the threat reflex. So this fourth component of to attach narrative, to attach a meaning and to attach purpose to and purposes, a generic response. There's no negotiating There's only negotiating what it means. There's only negotiating whether or not you pause or So this is usually the where I think people start asking, &quot;Okay, well, there's the biology, there's the mechanism, there's the logic. How do I eliminate fear?&quot; Well, it's not quite that simple. Although by understanding by which these circuits are built, we can eventually get to that place. I do want to plant a flag or a logical framework around a particular set of tools rather, that we are going to build And based on what you now gets input and it has outputs and it's subject to these these narratives. You should be asking yourself, what sort of narratives should Well, first let's take a step back and just acknowledged the reality, which is that fear is in some We don't want people eliminating fears that can get them The reason that the fear threat response and reflex exists at all to help us from making It just so happens that a that are not lethal, that don't harm us, but that harm us from the inside. And I think that and here from an excellent researcher who's done important work His name is Dr. Kerry Ressler. He's both a medical doctor He's the chief scientific He's a professor of psychiatry and he's done extensive I'm going to refer back several times during this podcast, including important and on transgenerational passage of trauma. He's a absolutely world-class biologist, absolutely world-class clinician. And Dr. Ressler has described a historical component. So it's not just about a injure us or kill us in but also protecting us for the future because of our important need And what he describes our or memories as dangerous. You know, some memories, even if they evoke a sense They protect us from making bad mistakes that could get us injured or killed, or put us into really Other memories are dangerous because they create a and they tend to limit our behavior in ways that are maladaptive. That prevent us from having healthy job relationships, healthy relationship So this language of memories as protective or memories as dangerous is not something that I said, it's really something that in one of his many impressive lectures. And it's an important aspect of fear because much of the fear Is designed to embed a memory of certain previous experiences in us. Such that the threat reflex is activated in anticipation of what So let's talk for a second get attached to this fear system. And this brings us to a beautiful and indeed Nobel Prize winning aspect of biology and physiology, Many of you are probably and the famous Pavlovian They go something like this. And Pavlov did these a dog doesn't do much It might attend to it but it doesn't salivate typically However, if you pair the ringing of a bell with a presentation of food enough times, the dog will salivate Eventually you take away the food, you just rang the bell in response to the bell, okay? So in the context of so-called these things have names and unconditional stimulus and responses. People often get these mixed up and it can be a little confusing, but I'm just going to make The unconditioned stimulus a response unconditionally. So food is the unconditioned stimulus in the example I just gave. A foot shock or a loud bang would be the unconditioned For instance say, an experiment geared That unconditioned It unconditionally evokes a startle or in the case of food salivating. The bell in the previous the conditioned stimulus or Sometimes people mix these up. The condition stimulus is naturally creates a response. And then eventually the condition stimulus creates the response itself. You might think, well, boring and simple, but that our fear systems work. Except unlike Pavlov's many pairings of a bell with in order to get a response. You can get what's called And in this circuit that the threat reflex, and all this other stuff that the system is set up for learning. It's set up to create memories It's a very good system because it was designed to keep us safe. And so the way to think about one intense experience, one bad experience, public speaking. One bad experience with somebody pet snake or whatever it happens to in the moment, a long like trouble sleeping that Memories of the experience physiological responses Essentially it gets wired Which is quite different of neuroplasticity. Neuroplasticity, of course, just being the nervous in response to experience. Other forms of neuroplasticity like learning a language, learning music, learning math, those take a while. We don't generally get one trial learning to positive or neutral experiences. We get one trial learning So there's this asymmetry So now you should understand as it's called occurs. You go to give a piano recital as a kid, you sit down and you freeze up and it's horribly embarrassing. And even if you just freeze the heart rate increase the sweating and the shame that you feel leads you to want to or public displays of performances for a long period of time unless you do something to overcome it. That's one trial learning. Some people, it tends to be more an They have a bad relationship an entire year, or God forbid a decade. And then they have what they feel is of a general sense of fear an attachment. These are common fears Fears can be in the short-term, fears can be in the long-term, they can be in the medium term. Again, the fear system is very generic. It's wired to include that happened within a many events in long periods of time. That kind of funnel into a general sense of relationships are bad or location is bad. So there's a key what we There's a component of the fear system being able to batch many events in time and create one specific fear or take one very specific that happened very briefly general sense of fears. And I'll give an example of the latter, just to kind of flesh I had a friend come some years ago, and their Unfortunately, a frequent even in the middle of the day. Never leave anything they'll break in, in the middle Police can be having coffee right there in front of them they'll still do it, for reasons we could They got their belongings they were never coming This was an isolated their view of the city. Which I frankly, I can understand. We can have isolated to broad decisions about entire places, or we can have many experiences specific isolated fears about places and things. So I like to think that by understanding of the the threat reflex, the fear response, and how we have top-down control, meaning we can attach a And that the fear response can be learned in association with I haven't really talked about And so I just want to take because it leads right into our discussion about how to eliminate fears, and indeed how to replace fears with more positive experiences. There's a process in our nervous system that we call neuroplasticity. Neuroplasticity broadly defined is the nervous system's ability to change in response to experience. But at a cellular level, that occurs through a couple One of the main mechanisms long-term potentiation. Long-term potentiation of particular connections between neurons. The connection sites between actually technically synapses are the gaps between those connections. But nonetheless, synapses are between neurons and so that certain neurons more robustly than they And anytime we talk the car, the snake, the the horrible experience, What we're talking about is a We're talking about did not communicate well, It's like going from a old or even an old school telephone connection or Morse code connection of communication to high speed ethernet, okay? To a 5G connection. It gets faster, it gets more robust, and it's very, very clear. That's what happens when you And long-term potentiation involves a couple of cellular mechanisms that are going to be about treatments to undue fear. And I'll just throw out of some of those cellular The main one is the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. And what this is, is this like a little parking slot on a neuron. And when a neuron gets like from an intense event the intense event. Almost certainly activated related to their concept of in their cars, the break into their car caused the NMDA receptor to be activated. Normally that NMDA receptor when it is activated a series of signals within those neurons that change those neurons. It changes the genes they express, it shuttles more parking spots so that the communication to it becomes faster. And so the way to think is it's used sometimes for normal things that we do every day, and things like that. But it's often used for learning. It's used for creating a new associations in our nervous system. And so the activation of and it involves some other things that you may have heard of like, brain-derived neurotrophic things that we can leave for a But basically a whole cascade that then make just even the or somebody or some event that happened able to activate that threat reflex, okay? So long-term potentiation is by which we take formerly and we make them scary. We make them traumatic. Our neurons have mechanisms to do this. Now, fortunately, the NMDA receptor and long-term potentiation can also run the whole system in reverse. You can get what's called and that doesn't have anything associated with low mood. What we're talking about is You can go from having a very between neurons, so to speak, to a connection that's or as like a poor dial up And that's what's happening when you unlearn a fear. So now I'd like to talk about in humans that allow fears to be undone, that allow traumas to be reversed, such that people no longer feel bad about a particular person, place or thing. Either real interactions with or imagine interactions with That process as I just mentioned also involves things but rather than the first thing that has to be a weakening of the person, place or thing Subsequent to that, we will see there needs of some new experience This is a key element contrary to popular belief, it is not going to work to One needs to extinguish and replace that fearful or idea or response with And this is something both in the scientific literature, but certainly in the general discussion around fear and trauma. There's this idea that we can rewire ourselves, we and indeed we can. But that process has to comfortable with a particular but also attaching a to that previously fearful There are a lot of different that are in clinical fear and trauma and indeed PTSD, post-traumatic stress disorder. It might be surprising to learn that many of those the selective serotonin Things like Prozac and Zoloft and similar and other antidepressants. Or things like Benzodiazepines, which are essentially like painkillers. They create elevation in certain like GABA among others. They can have a pain relieving effect. They are generally however, they reduce anxiety and or Beta blockers sometimes Drugs that are designed from beating too fast or to reduce some elements of the hypothalamic-pituitary that we talked about earlier. Many people experienced from the symptoms of in taking these various compounds. Indeed, that's why they're But you may find it interesting to note that none of those current treatments are based on the neurobiology of fear, at least not directly, right? People that take SSRIs a reduction in anxiety. It depends on the dosage and the individual of course, right? And you have to work with to determine whether or in the correct dosage, if But that modulation of reduce the likelihood that or experience of fear, an or reliving of a trauma. But the SSRIs themselves are not plugging into some specific mechanism comes about in the system. It's an indirect support. That's important because if and the goal of modern mechanistic understanding We need to think about what that tap into the very fear circuits that we described before. The fact that there are memories attached to a generic threat reflex and response. And the threat reflex and with the Dopamine system and can be linked up with other systems that are involved in pain, And so that brings us to which treatments are directly related to the fear circuitry and the circuitry related to trauma? And the primary one to behavioral therapies. Now, oftentimes we all wish that there's some specific or there's some machine or device that we can plug our finger into or that we can put on a headset and all of a sudden we just Fear has gone, trauma's gone, And when we think of language to rewire our nervous system in comparison to those and machines and potions, it starts to seem a If we just think, &quot;Oh, actually change the way that But actually there are that purely through the use of language have been shown to have meaning reduce fears and traumas. And those three are cognitive processing, or CPT and cognitive behavioral therapy. And I not going to go around prolonged exposure, and cognitive behavioral therapy. But I will just illustrate that allows them to work. Now, remember that the circuit for fear, the circuit for trauma And then there are those top-down elements coming from the forebrain. It's very clear because it's been measured that if you look at the amount of anxiety, the pure physiological anxiety response of quickening of heart sometimes quaking of the hands, that the experience of fear over time when people recount or retell their trauma that the first time they do that especially when it's there's a tremendous anxiety response. Sometimes even as great or to the fearful event or trauma. And obviously this is with a clinician present, because it is very They're literally reliving the and they are encouraged to They're often encouraged to to flush out details about to flush out details about their memories going into this traumatic going through it. And after really digging and contours of these But what's remarkable is that and the fourth retelling or fearful events that anxiety response and the amount of the I should say that the becomes progressively Now, some of you might be saying, &quot;Well, duh, you know, you that eventually it wears off.&quot; Just like if you watch and you hear the same joke enough times eventually it doesn't But that [indistinct] be the case, right? You could imagine that this this high amplitude activation of the sympathetic nervous would actually create a even and trauma but that's not what happens. And every clinician I of this episode which include psychiatrists and people who actually work on the fear system said the exact same thing which is that, &quot;A detailed recounting of the traumatic and fearful events is absolutely essential in order to get the positive cognitive processing and Again, this has to be done This isn't something that because as we've mentioned before the fear response can contour to it. People can sometimes have trouble sleeping for days and days. And afterwards we'll talk But the point is that the And the idea here is to and extremely troubling, meaning physiologically troubling, psychologically troubling story, and turn it into what bad story, okay? It never really becomes a in the treatment process So a terrible event is But there's a way in which starts to uncouple the threat And with each successive of these traumatic events, the threat reflex is lower and lower amplitude. Such that eventually it really boring story. Now that's one part of the It's what we call fear extinction. And we can bring ourselves of Pavlovian conditioning, because many studies have been done both in animals and in for instance, if you pair with a foot shock that will brace themselves for the foot shock. Eventually you can just and the person will experience or the same fight or So you conditioned that. But if you give the tone and there's no foot and in human [indistinct] sometimes believe it even some studies, there is older studies you couldn't do those now, But eventually what happens is the tone... The bell no longer evokes So you see this as a reversal and we call that reversal extinction. So the retelling of this traumatic or fearful narrative, excuse me, fearful narrative is essentially Now, how is this done? One can do this in a that's sometimes done. It's sometimes done in group type settings where people actually stand up or sit in front of a group small or large and recount in detail It's sometimes done by people writing out the experience in detail. And which one of these Isn't really clear. The literature points to the obviously between the or the person and the group is essential. Some people don't have or other limitations to In that case, journaling in detail has been shown to be effective. Although, again, I want to caution people about reactivating traumas for the kinds of social around that reactivation. And we will talk a little bit later about some of the chemicals and why those help extinguish fears. So the thing to embed in of the early traumatic or over and over is key to forming a new non-traumatic association So that's part one, you need And when I say diminish, I mean, reduce the amplitude Now this is just but one approach. I'm going to talk about other approaches to eliminating fear and But I want to emphasize that of the physiological So it's like a clearing between the person, place or But even after that's occurred, there's an essential need Why is their essential need or create a new association? Well, that has to do with As you recall, there outputs that are associated with Dopamine And that we now know offers the capacity for these fear circuits in these circuits that underlie trauma to be mapped onto new experiences that are of positive association. So I'm going to give a It's a kind of a silly example, but I'm giving it as a any number of other different examples. Example I'll give is to play soccer, soccer practice, and they get into a Terrible thing to They recover. And somehow... And we really don't know get wired in more Somehow this kid just doesn't And they actually don't And they actually just They're kind of isolating and very much at all. It's a pretty broad response. It didn't have to be that way. Some kids would just decide they down that particular street. Well, the process of to a clinician would allow an extinction of the fear response, right? So a reduction in the heart rate, a reduction in the narrowing of focus, a reduction in all the But a really good cognitive or somebody that understands and trauma would understand That's what it's really this hypothetical child that they don't just manage or manage to spend time with friends, but that they actually start wiring in new positive associations with biking to practice, with social events. And, and this is the somewhat and that they link that back to that early traumatic experience. That it's not just that they're replacing that bad experience and memory with a good experience and memory, but they're actually holding in mind in these top-down narrative They're holding in mind, &quot;Ah, I'm not just biking I'm actually biking to soccer despite the fact that I Despite the fact that two or maybe even 10 years ago, I couldn't even leave my room or I didn't want to So the building up of the And the linking of those earlier traumatic event is the top-down circuitry to this threat reflex circuit is not like the other The other connections in that circuit are what we call They are all about like a chain reaction. One neuron activates, the next activates, the next like dominoes falling. These top-down circuits that and all its parts is It tends to prevent activation It tends to prevent activation So it's acting as a break. And so when we think being associated with what was previously a negative experience, forgetting that the car or forgetting that the assault We're talking about attaching to the circuitry so that is far less likely to occur and that it remains extinguished. So just to make sure there's a first step which in order to extinguish to reduce the amplitude of the response. Then there's a need to replace or attach positive experiences to the earlier what would be traumatic response. The extinction has to You can't simply say, &quot;Oh, you know, the car accident was actually a good thing because I stayed home a lot You can tell yourself that But that won't necessarily eliminate the fear or of the car accident. And again, I'm using car or a generic example here, okay? So there's a three-part process. One diminished the old experience through repetitive narrative. And almost inevitably of that is going to be very high amplitude and quite troubling. But over time it will reduce, right? You're turning that terrible into a terrible boring story. That's the extinction process. Then there's a relearning that includes some sort And that sense of reward on to the traumatic event or what was previously a traumatic event. And that is all through narrative. It's all through cognition. And I think this is a Oftentimes I think we tend to undervalue the importance of rationalization and of story and of narrative. But the prefrontal cortex of our brain real estate to attach meaning and purpose are just reflexive. And in the example of an ice bath, it might be a little trivial. In the example of the it becomes a little more relevant. And in the example of things you know, genocide or attaching to what were previously thought of time, of people, of That process of narrative that the human brain rewires itself. Narrative should not be for relieving fear and trauma. In fact, narrative is one of the best and most potent ways that we And that indeed we can form to things over time. So basically narratives as a tool to rewire our nervous system but it has to be engaged And that correct sequence then relearning a new narrative and attaching those positive associations to the formerly traumatic Now I mentioned prolonged cognitive processing, and For those of you that are and traumatic events, you can look up licensed those one or several of I get a lot of questions One of the ones that comes EMDR, Eye Movement developed by Francine Shapiro in the 80s. Eye Movement Desensitization moving the eyes side to side or fearful narrative typically Why would that work? Well, basically when I from my stance as a vision scientist I thought the whole and half-baked frankly. I heard these theories that, &quot;Oh, it recreates the eye movements in rapid eye movement sleep or REM sleep.&quot; And that's completely false. It does not. I heard the argument EMDR which I guess hypothetically was thought to be important somehow. And frankly, there's that EMDR activates in a way that's beneficial. I mean, by looking from side to side, just because of the way that are organized it will do that. But it never made any sense until several years ago when I saw. Because I reviewed no Some in animal models, others in humans looking at lateral eye movements. Meaning I moving from side not eyes up or down. And what was observed in these experiments in all of them actually, all five of those papers in the activation and a suppression of the fear which was a jaw dropper for me. I thought, &quot;Wow, it I widened that. For me, I thought, &quot;Oh my goodness, maybe this EMDR stuff works And maybe this is the mechanism.&quot; And indeed many laboratories, not mine, but many laboratories are And it's looking very likely. Why would that happen? Well, just very briefly, a lateralized eye movements of and I'm moving my hand like this but I'll just do it with my eyes even though it's a little Cause I know it looks cause I'm doing EMDR and of the amygdala and related circuitries which reduces anxiety of the threat reflex. Reduces sympathetic autonomic arousal. In other words, we feel less stressed when moving I just heard a story about this is that these are the sorts of when we are ambulating, through some sort of And one can make up a in the evolutionary context that forward movement and fear are generally incompatible That generally a fear or a retreating. Some people will advance, but that's usually a trained so first responders and so forth. Most people freeze or Forward movement generates It does seem to suppress and the amygdala in particular. So for the many EMDR these papers I think And I think there is now in the psychiatric and for its utility, for treating However, I should point with various colleagues of I was told that EMDR has in particular for single or fearful experiences. Not so much for relieving the trauma or feelings of fear associated. For instance, with an entire bad marriage or an entire childhood. But more for single more acute within a very kind of brief narrative. Brief, not necessarily in time, the bad interaction the assault, God forbid, And I realize we're down that are unpleasant. And so I have great sensitivity to that but I think it's also about the kinds of things So is EMDR useful? Well, it seems like it or kind of constrained event type traumas that people can describe while moving their eyes from side to side generally in the presence of a clinician. However, if we think back to the model of how you extinguish and remember you have to the amplitude of that. You need to... That's the extinguish portion. Then you need to relearn a new narrative and attach reward to EMDR only really taps into the extinction of the physiological response I'm sure that there are that are thinking about the attaching of the new narrative and reward, but there I've heard less and I've seen fewer So let's think about this logically. Let's say, and indeed it's the case that I'm sitting down in a chair and moving eyes side to side deliberately for some period of time reduces activation of the threat reflex. I or the patient in this case, recites or repeats over and or the fearful event. I'm doing that in the presence of a lower amplitude response. Remember back to where we works best if the first time it's done there's a huge amplitude response. And then with each successive the threat response gets lower and lower. With EMDR, you're sort of short circuiting you're kind of sneaking around the corner of that high amplitude response. And so it's taking a of trying to extinguish the bad feelings in body and mind associated by reducing the physiological response. So it's somewhat different. And at least to my knowledge please correct me, but there isn't an active component to EMDR of relearning a new narrative Now reward and attaching reward requires a somewhat high amplitude It requires a feeling of a It's positive arousal, but it is arousal. So I'm not focusing on the potential impact of EMDR. I know many people have but it doesn't tap into all and relearning that we And therefore, I think on its own at least in many cases is for fear and trauma. If there are people out there with the EMDR, please let us on YouTube would be the ideal place. If you've had bad experiences with EMDR or it didn't work for I think that EMDR practitioners in the psychiatric and psychological space are eager to expand their practices in order to make them more effective rather than clinging perhaps is incomplete or that doesn't work for certain individuals. So I think they would appreciate So, as I mentioned before, most of these therapies with a skilled often one would There are many people however, that don't have access to that or who are working through stuff. They have things in their past that are very uncomfortable to them. And I'm aware that many people are working through those things. Through journaling, through through any number of different sort of non-traditional approaches. One thing that really who's working through fear is the importance of social connection as it relates to the chemical systems and the neural circuits And this is a emerging that is really a beautiful one because it's a very conserved biology. We see it, believe it or not a commonly used model system. In mice and indeed in humans as well. And this is the work of David again, of Dr. Ressler's and elsewhere, of course. And this is the work as Tachykinin is a very interesting and it turns out the in neurons of what's and some nearby structures. So really smack dab within the Very soon after some traumatic or fear inducing event occurs. And it actually sets in motion including changes in gene meaning long-term potentiation, activation of an NMDA receptors and so on. In the circuits that or traumatic experience. Now what's interesting about Tachykinin is also that it's been shown to lead to low to moderate levels of anxiety and even kind of aggression, irritability. Tachykinin levels are further And that social isolation is pre-existing traumas or fearful events. And in a kind of kind of dark and depressing story, social connection with And it doesn't have to be but just social connection sharing a meal with, it could be physical touch Those sorts of connections the effectiveness or even So the important point here is that trauma is traumatic in and of itself. Fearful events are hard And if people are working through them either through clinical work It is important and in ideally one would still be trying outside of that specific Now it doesn't necessarily For instance, if you with a clinician or therapist to the point where there's real trust and you feel a social But for many people, they have a more to the EMDR practitioner or they're working through And it's really important to understand that regular social connection, trusting social connection of any kind is going to be very And so this is not the a new agey stuff like, &quot;Oh, you know you need social connection.&quot; There's a actual neurochemical that has an amplifying And there is a neurochemical from fear and trauma and isolation. And in the ideal circumstance, one is working through very intensely in a very dedicated way. But then is also engaging in the sorts of social interactions that are going to diminish and going to suppress those very circuits that would otherwise be amplified. So next I'd like to talk and almost kind of eerie And that's the transgenerational or predisposition to fear and trauma. This is a scientific many times over the last But in more recent that we as humans have a predisposition to trauma or fear. Now that doesn't necessarily traumatized or experience extreme fear just because our parents or It's a predisposition, it's a bias. Let me explain the for a little bit. And then we'll talk about what One of the most important comes to us from someone Dr. Kerry Ressler at Harvard. And the title of the paper is, Association of FKBP5 with risk of posttraumatic in adults. And there are other papers as well. Another one from the Ressler's Lab, first author, Brian Dias, D-I-A-S. Parental olfactory experience and neural structure in I'm going to summarize these and papers related to them. Although, feel free to look up We will provide a link if you'd like to go further. But basically these explorations involve looking at the histories who had trauma or abuse of And then looking at the likelihood of fear and PTSD type symptomology And essentially what they if you had a parent and there does seem to be a kind of a bias if the father had abuse or moderate abuse. That abuse causes a in his sperm that can be such that the offspring to develop trauma or extreme fear to certain types of events. Now what's important to point or bias is not necessarily It's not that the abuse itself gets passed from one generation to the And the title of that paper mentioned, FKB5, excuse me, FKBP5 polymorphisms. And the FKBP5 polymorphisms in the genome that's associated with the so-called glucocorticoid system with cortisol release. So the predisposition from having a parent father or mother but stronger tendency to Who experienced abuse is one in which the glucocorticoid system, and that HPA axis that the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal or reactive in a way that to become traumatized or very afraid of certain types of events. But it's not unique to that the parent experienced. Now, this is really, really important because a lot of times out there I will hear that there's passage or transgenerational the specific trauma. Now that could be through if somebody is exposed about their parents' trauma It may be that they start to internalize some of that trauma. And there could be because we There could be some other signatures of prior specific traumas they But more likely and about these polymorphisms point to is that what gets passed for the threat reflex to to a wider variety or to and experiences. And the important point is that it's not some magical, mysterious, and mystical thing from parent to child. It's a gene or it's a that gives a heightened to fearful type events. Or even a high level of responsivity such that things that or trauma inducing to certain individuals can trigger fear and that inherit this particular gene. Now that doesn't necessarily to forever be traumatized or live in fear. It's simply not the case. It's just a genetic predisposition regardless of whether or not that were traumatized or not. There's no evidence, at that the treatments for trauma As far as I know there currently aimed at these like FKBP5 and so forth that genetic underpinnings of So this transgenerational I think is extremely because it brings us back to this idea that the threat reflux is part You know, normally we think or hearing as a sensory system. But the threat detection the fear learning system is It's just a sensory system in its response. That generic response again is good because it allows for flexibility but it's bad because it We can essentially become fearful or traumatized by anything if And these particular children for more things and less intense In a few minutes, we are going to discuss some of the behavioral treatments including some really for dealing with fear and trauma. But for a few minutes, I'd like to discuss some that are starting to emerge in particular for PTSD. The two drug treatments are Ketamine-Assisted Psychotherapy, and MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy. Currently Ketamine-Assisted It is approved, provided it is prescribed by a board certified physician I'm not certain about MDMA also sometimes called Ecstasy therapy is in clinical trials in the U S, it is still an illegal So I want to be very clear about that. However, MDMA is being explored as a potential therapeutic for PTSD and other forms of trauma. And of course, Ketamine and MDMA are also both being explored eating disorders and a number of other psychiatric disorders. But for the moment I would Ketamine and MDMA as they relate to the fear circuitry and trauma circuitry that we've described in the and throughout the episode. Because I think that in we can gain some additional insight into how they might be that some of the early clinical studies are starting to point to. Ketamine is a dissociative anesthetic. That's right. It's a dissociative anesthetic. It's main function is to And I've never taken ketamine personally so I can't describe the experience of it. But a colleague of mine in psychiatry shared their experience with as making that patient feel as if, &quot;They were getting out of but that they were observing And this was of course, during a approved therapeutic session that they were doing this and they were in some sort about a traumatic experience. They were describing some as well as the trauma. And their narrative that or took away from this. And that was relayed the patient felt like they but they were also viewing So dissociative, in other words. Again, I've never had this experience. Some of you may have with But we might want to just what Ketamine actually does and what dissociation actually does at the level of neurocircuits? And for that, we can look to that was published by my colleagues, Karl Deisseroth in psychiatry, Robert Malenka, also in also at Stanford. They paired up or teamed how systemic Ketamine adjust And what they discovered was that it changes the rhythm of cortical activity in certain layers of the cortex. The cortex is like a layered sandwich. The cortex of course, being And there was a particular rhythm a one to three hertz rhythm. One to three hertz just of electrical activity. In this case, in these layer 5 neurons So you don't need to know much or a one to three hertz rhythms. I think the important thing is that there is now starting of how drugs like Ketamine work to create this subjective and other patients You know, dissociation in its essence is really about not It's about viewing what's happening from a different perspective one would view that experience from. And so if we add a plug that and Ketamine induced that we talked about before, where we have this threat These outputs for freezing or And we've got this prefrontal as top-down processing. It brings us right to that to the threat system and that narrative. What seems to be the case I just described, plus a review on how might work is that it the individual to recount either none or a very different that they experienced in the actual trauma or fearful experience. So it's a remapping of new onto old. New meaning new feelings onto in the exact same narrative. So it's a little bit the threat reflex but it seems of previous emotional in the body with new ones. And so in that way we can sort of view or we can try and view for the treatment of the three elements that You want to diminish the intensity, the potency of the old or fear experience. So that seems to be accomplished and maybe through the kind So it's a reduction in pain a kind of observing of the self of the trauma and the fear. But then there also or kind of built in a a new set of experiences that we described earlier. So it's an intriguing therapy. It's one that's really catching on and there are many, many that are now doing it. Whether or not it turns out for trauma and for fear isn't clear. My colleagues in psychiatry although it does seem to be beneficial for a number of people. Especially people that or have existing traumas and fear that are coupled with depressive symptoms. Because the data on seems to be quite strong. So now let's talk about MDMA. MDMA also sometimes in its recreational form is that at least as far as we know, creates a state in the brain any other chemical state that's normally experienced. What do I mean by that? Well, we have several Neuromodulators are chemicals that certain neural Meaning they can make it very will be active and make it neural circuits will be active. Good examples of neuromodulators acetylcholine, norepinephrine. These tend to work on different systems in the brain and body but more or less in parallel, right? You can have Dopamine and also Norepinephrine. You can have Serotonin and also Acetylcholine. So it's not an all or none kind of thing, but the degrees to which tends to vary. And there is a little bit with Dopamine and Serotonin. Dopamine most commonly neurocircuits related to And Serotonin more typically activated in response to situations or conditions in which we are very happy So Dopamine is more about Serotonin is more about kind with resources that we have They don't tend to... Serotonin doesn't tend to into a mode of action quite as much as Dopamine MDMA is a unique compound in that it leads to very large increases Dopamine and Serotonin in the And that's a unique circumstance seen under normal conditions. From a subjective standpoint, people under the influence of MDMA in the therapeutic setting, tend to report immense feelings with people or even things Certainly if it's being with a family member or a they will feel extremely They'll feel a very close Oftentimes that goes beyond words. There is a chemical reason for that. It turns out that MDMA causes This neuropeptide that's and with bonding generally. The oxytocin system and are closely linked to one And they tend to be co-released and by the same sorts of events. So MDMA is one mechanism by in these massive amounts. And I should just relay some because they're really quite striking, gives a kind of a more vivid would make people feel so with the various things while they're under the So the paper related to this is in the journal The title of the paper is following MDMA or intranasal And just remarkably MDMA to 83.7, this is an average, About 90 to 120 minutes compared to a typical level of 18.6. So this is a massive increase in oxytocin. And I think that massive is part of the reason feelings of close Now, the Dopamine increases to the feelings of euphoria And then the Serotonin are what lead to the feelings So again, a very unusual chemical cocktail that would never be seen at under any normal conditions clinical psychotherapeutic session. Why would this state of mind for the treatment of trauma? Well, indeed it is revealing for the treatment of trauma. Again, these are legal clinical trials where people are doing What it seems to allow or new associations to be tacked on to the previously traumatic experience. So again, it brings us of how people extinguish fears and traumas and replace them with new experiences when there is no drug treatment involved. There needs to be a diminishing meaning an extinction of a new narrative. What the chemical [indistinct] of MDMA seems to be doing is for all that to happen very fast without the need for many and reliving of the original trauma. Probably because the reliving of it inside of one of these MDMA sessions plus it seems to be to extinguish and rewrite in or write in a new narrative associated very quickly as well. So what this means is that are under investigation are unlikely to be magic that allow access to a particular process that would otherwise not be accessible. It's more that the and fear reduction that's prolonged exposure, cognitive processing, cognitive behavioral therapy into a much shorter session. And that session is performed Higher intensity because of the brain is completely different. I mean, the experience of have a very heightened sense of euphoria, very heightened sense of connection. So those positive experiences to be written in and over and because of the high levels and probably oxytocin as well, there's a safety that's that allows people to lean or components of narratives that they would otherwise So these are powerful compounds, and I think the future of for a trauma in particular As of now, meaning at of this podcast. Again, I want to reiterate are being done legally. These drugs are still outside of clinical trials. Doing this sort of thing is punishable. But it does seem that the FDA that control these sorts of things are eyes open to this stuff. And I think it's very likely things like MDMA and in widespread use within And I think we're going to One thing we have not touched on yet is how do you know if you're traumatized? How do you know if you have chronic fear or a debilitating fear? You know, much of the focuses on how many other Trouble sleeping, trouble eating, trouble maintaining and so forth. And all of those are and necessary criteria for determining whether or not somebody meets But there's a biological component that I think we can all And that's one of interoceptive versus And that sounds confusing, but it's actually really We can focus our perception events going on around us, or within the confines of our skin. A focus and a perception is what's called exteroception and a focus on what's happening And we have the capacity into that, right? I can for instance, stop how my stomach feels, how hungry I feel, how quick my heart is beating. Some people by the way whether or not their heart is and others, not so much. Some people can actually having to take their on their wrist or their neck. Some people can't. In other words, some people have very high interoceptive awareness This whole business of fear external experiences and into this thing that I'm or the fear circuitry. A recent paper published So absolutely spectacular being the apex journals Gets at this issue of where in our mind and how do we assess whether or not what we are feeling given what's going on externally. And it's a really fascinating study. I'm just going to highlight and then I'll touch on some and how that can be to assess and reduce fear and anxiety. The title of this paper in Science is, Fear balance is maintained to the insular cortex in mice. We've not talked too also called the insular cortex. This is a brain area and other labs have worked on. It's a brain area that has within it a map of our internal It's a map of our internal And it's a really interesting structure. So the way this study subjects were taught or conditioned to a particular danger signal through repeated presentation So there's a sound and And as you know, from about Pavlovian learning, an unconditioned stimulate. Eventually the sound alone comes And that's just classic, The insular is this brain with determining whether or gut, heart, lungs, et cetera, are reasonable or not given It can even measure or is associated with our understanding of what are These are blood pressure sensors. So believe or not, when you or you feel like you're stressed out, your arterial baroreceptors to your insular cortex and wow, like I'm really stressed out, my blood pressure is up, right? You don't actually have to with a cuff, your insular It's not getting a quantitative readout, but it's getting a qualitative readout. The main effect of inhibiting of the insular was that the intensity of an outside world of different internal effects. In other words, for most people a mild shock would induce a a mild increase in blood pressure. Whereas an intense shock to the skin would lead to a big increase in heart rate and a big increase in blood pressure. Turns out the insular is that match of intensity. And when the insular is inhibited, what ends up happening can create a big increase And that can be maintained that's paired with that shock like a bell, or a tone would lead to a big You've probably seen examples Maybe this is even you. Some people are very jumpy in response to just even small changes So if somebody is working and you walk in and you say, &quot;Hello.&quot; And they'll go, they're jumpy. They have a low threshold to a Other people are really calm. I recall my bulldog, but before he passed away, if you walked in the room He might turn his eyes in your direction. He had a very high threshold to respond. He was pretty low anxiety animal. A lot of people are like that. You'd come up behind And they just turn around real slow, or they might just turn and say, &quot;Hello.&quot; Whereas other people The insular seems to be how big or how high amplitude a given physiological response is. So it's pairing the internal landscape with the external world. And this might seem but non-actionable point. But what you'll see from the next study that I'm going to describe the relationship between outside events and internal responses, which is the job of the that's under our control. And through a very simple, we can actually recalibrate that we can potentially reduce the amount of fear and trauma that we experience, in response to a memory And the entire process So I'm really excited to tell for a number of reasons. First of all, it's extremely recent. Second of all, it's very well grounded in our current understanding trauma and PTSD and unlearning And third, it points to that while certainly is that I think people could or should take for fear, trauma and PTSD. Is one that I think we are into the clinical setting very soon if it's not happening already. Now, there's a fourth reason which is that my lab works on stress, stress-relief and tools for managing sleep and improving focus, et cetera. And one of the hallmarks of the studies we've been doing lately is interventions of the sort that was used in this particular study. Although I should emphasize, I had nothing to do with Now this particular study was carried out in an animal model in mice. The work in my laboratory But the similarities of the stress system at least at the level that I think have great relevance maybe even direct relevance to humans. So the title of this study is, Repeated exposure with resolves pre-existing stress-induced depressive-like behavior in mice. Again, this study was in mice. And basically what they did got them depressed, and you using a restraint protocol. And that's a long lasting a 15 minutes or more. Mice Don't like it, They stop working so hard in their life, in their mouse life to They show depressive symptoms They show elevated glucocorticoids. You see the same thing in humans, Okay? Chronic stress in humans does the same exact thing. So again, a very close match here in terms of mechanism overall. And then what they did was a Rather than give these at the level of reducing their anxiety with Benzodiazepines, or giving them a nice or enriched environment. Things that have been done What they did is they subjected of intense stress, but And what they found was miraculously, but also very convincingly. Daily short bouts of intense reversed the effects of chronic stress. And it did this at the of hormones, of neurotransmitters and a number of other Now, I find this very exciting but in particular, because my with David Spiegel laboratory, our associate chair of Been exploring how five minute can alleviate stress. And while those data they are at the stage talking about them. And we are seeing some very impressive and significant effects not just from respiration to calm themselves but that bring people into a heightened state of autonomic sympathetic As my colleague, Dr. David Spiegel, he's an MD psychiatrist and PhD. Likes to say, &quot;When it comes and the treatment of it's not just the state that It's how you got there and to do with it.&quot; And this brings us right back to those top-down mechanisms and the narrative around what we are So let's zoom out and I'll and what to do about it. We have this brain structure We talked about the The insular is calibrating versus what's going on externally. It's involved in setting whether or not what we are feeling is appropriate We have a system that can And in the case of trauma, chronic stress, that system gets ramped up so that it takes very little, or maybe even an association our location trigger something, And we start experiencing How do we recalibrate the system? Well, most of the approaches involving drug treatments, typical drug treatments would of internal arousal. Just trying to bring that down. Now, some of those drug treatments work. But oftentimes they don't. And if you think about it, it's probably not because by taking a drug that just lowers your anxiety overall you're creating a different of the system. So what we've been doing in human subjects is having them do either breathing and I'll explain what that is in a moment, or doing breathing protocols that increase their level of autonomic arousal and seeing how that impacts their response to stress overall not just breathing protocol. So the calming protocol that we use involves these physiological size. I've talked about these and elsewhere but if you if you haven't heard about it. There's a pattern of breathing When our carbon dioxide get too high. And we do this when we get claustrophobic, meaning we do it reflexively. And that's a double followed by a long exhale. So it's, [Andrew breathing] And yes, the inhales and yes, the exhales should be done through the mouth, ideally. So it's a big filling of the back to back. Inhales. [Andrew breathing] Even if you could only on that second one, no talking to if you're And then a long exhale, which allows you to offload in the exhale. And we have people doing that in real time anytime they experienced stress but the particular breathing protocol that we've been giving human subjects is for them to do the repeated... What we call cyclic sign. So double inhale, exhale, double inhale, exhale Which is actually a pretty But you can do it pretty and the data point to the People feel more relaxed afterwards and that relaxation wicks of their life. Now, we did not look at stress We also have another what's called cyclic hyperventilation, which is very different and internal state and is somewhat stressful. It's five minutes a day of stress much like the study that I just described. And involves basically doing this, what I'll do in a moment for five minutes which is hyperventilating. Which is, [Andrew breathing] But not continuously for the five minutes because many people would pass out or feel extremely uncomfortable. It involves inhale, very deep inhale through the And then every 25 or 30 breaths and holding one's breath, lungs empty for about 25, maybe 30, And then continuing Subjects report and our feel a heightened level In fact, I can feel it right now even from a very brief I just did. You feel a heating up, you feel a... Some people will perspire, some people feel agitated. That's Adrenaline being Now I'm not suggesting And if you have a or anxiety attacks please it is very stimulating and can trigger those sorts of attacks. But this five minute a day protocol of cyclic hyperventilation in autonomic arousal. So it's &quot;Stressful&quot; but to bring us back to my colleague, David Spiegel's quote. It really was him that said it, not me. It's not just about the It's about the state that and whether or not you And that point one directs deliberately is really key. And I think has an important their stress relief and fear from bringing oneself into a state of increased autonomic arousal. Why? Because of the way that that is organized. If you recall, it's got these components of how external events can trigger an internal stress and trauma response. But there's that top-down that can inhibit certain and threat circuitry. Now, earlier we were talking about that prefrontal circuit being through self-directed It's the person deliberately Here we're talking about of the sensations in the body. So where I think this is all going, meaning where my laboratory and other laboratories Is you can imagine a very two weeks was the time that they did this for five minutes a day for two weeks. Intervention in which people, with the support of a would deliberately induce that's very stressful, right? Not shying away from the stress response but increasing their own And maybe in conjunction or fearful circumstance. This is far and away different than the kind of state of mind and body that would come about in a Ketamine-assisted trauma or a MDMA-assisted trauma Or in a purely narrative aimed at alleviating fear or trauma. The reason I like these sorts A, they are very low cost One you could imagine or while recounting a Again, they're very for two weeks is what was done in this particular mouse study. We don't know if that translates directly to the human study or not. What was interesting is that if they use the longer daily bouts of that actually exacerbated the trauma and exacerbated the fear. So one has to be very careful. Stress and deliberate entry into stress and self stressing are very potent tools. They're very sharp blades or it's likely can help But how long to do this? Exactly what the protocol should be is still something that I know there are going to that nonetheless are going with some of this. I will say that I do not think it matters how one gets into that stressed state provided it as self-directed and that therefore could be cold shower. It could be ice bath. It could be anything meaning a sudden onset of that's really the key feature here. So I'm very excited about these data both the five minute intervention data from the animal study. The work that's ongoing in my laboratory and Dr. Spiegel's laboratory, and the work that's being Because I think what is a picture of fear and trauma and PTSD that has the sensory component, what's happening in the world around us. This internal interoceptive component, how appropriate are the signals that are occurring in my body? I mean, let's face it. If you almost get hit by is 140 beats per second. And that lasts for a little you don't get the best night's That means you have a healthy fear system. If that persists and you're a week later, six weeks Then it's moved into the So we need to always the different components of the circuitry. I do think that deliberate into these short bouts of stress is a very promising approach. And it's one that if people I just again, want to or panic disorders be very Ideally you would do this from a clinician. But I'm also aware that there that are dealing with trauma and dealing with post-traumatic And that they're desperate for various self directed intervention approaches. So just very briefly, I want to and supplementation factors like fear and trauma and To make a long story short. There are many things that to support our overall And these are the foundational elements of quality nutrition. What that means to you? Quality sleep on a regular basis, ample sleep on a regular basis. We have an episode on how We have four episodes that or elsewhere and scroll down and you can find those episodes really dialed in as they say. If you're sleeping regularly all of the systems of your fear circuitry are going to function better. Mainly because the becomes very dysregulated when we are not getting good Dysregulated means that out of nowhere we can have a higher propensity to have sympathetic activation or we can feel really tired and wired. That seesaw that I described and calmness of sympathetic In that analogy we can imagine that seesaw has a hinge and that hinge nor too loose. If it's too tight, you can get locked into or chronic fatigue. If it's too loose, you're and you might be [indistinct] and then really hyper alert. Sleep resets that balance to the appropriate tightness, if you will. So that all these circuits and not just the circuits related to fear but also the circuits clear thinking to be able to spell out very clear detailed narratives, to feel like you are in control. You are deliberately bringing if that's what you intend to use. All of that functions much better when you're sleeping well and eating well. We talked about social connection. Those are all indirect and of getting over fear I think of them sort of like the tide. When the tide is high enough And if the tide is not high enough, then that boat is going And in this analogy, the boat stranded on shore is your attempt or anybody's attempt to try Very hard to do when we're sleep deprived, very hard to do when we're not fed enough or fed the proper foods for you. And that's a highly individual thing. And social connection as creates a general sense to move through things. But also chemical support at the level of suppressing Tachykinin, okay? So those foundational but they are indirect. I just want to briefly that some people find great benefit from in the supplementation realm stress, fear and PTSD. But I want to point out that again, these are somewhat and most of them focus on The two that I want to focus talked about on this podcast before because I've done and managing stress in So we've talked about Ashwagandha check out the podcast on stress, if you're interested in as well as other tools. But the two are interesting ones. The first one is Saffron of all things. But there are 12 studies, That orally ingested seems to be a reliable on the standard inventories. The Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale, for those of you that want to know. And these are significant effects. And these were carried out in Here I'm only referring to human studies. Several of these were There's a meta analysis Meaning anxiolytic affects, anxiety reducing effects that Definitely have to check with your doctor and make sure it's right for you. But they're fairly impressive effects when you really think about it given that these are legal Again, check with a doctor. The other one is a Inositol. Inositol has been shown to in anxiety symptoms. It's a fairly high dose that's the potency of this of the prescription antidepressants. That's pretty impressive. These studies again are that all showed decreases in anxiety. These were done in males and females. The age range is very broad, which is great 18 all the way up to 64 across the studies that I at. One of the more important things is that the dosages are quite taken for a full month. And it does take some of anxiety to be improved. The low dose range was so as high as 18 as low as 12 grams. But then again, pretty impressive results considering that these supplement compounds. There's even some evidence, that the Inositol is obsessive-compulsive disorder. We will do a full episode you can count on that. But in the meantime, Inositol does seem to have some positive effects on anxiety. And therefore it might indirect effect for people that are trying to work through trauma and PTSD. Now, the question is Well, by the logic of you probably would not want or prior to a session where the intensity of an of an experience in efforts to eventually extinguish that experience, right? Because if you put a drug prescription drug or into your system you are the extinguishing effect, right? So you could imagine doing as a way to kind of bring your system back to baseline, perhaps. So if you're going to you want to think about them logically. And this also really many of the things that to self-medicate over use of alcohol or other substances to because they have fear, anxiety and PTSD are actually driving that deeper into their system. Or at least is not allowing through any attempts to recount or replay and using these top-down or other approaches. And the last compound I want to mention is a particularly interesting one, because it's neither an anxiolytic, nor is it something that increases overall levels of stress and alertness. But it has some kind of MDMA It does not produce as far as we know, the same mental effects or by any stretch but that's... The substance I'm referring Kava has been shown in eight effect on reducing anxiety. But what's interesting about by increasing GABA, this inhibitory Remember GABA is the that is used, that's in the prefrontal cortex the threat reflex. So it seems to increase GABA, but it also increases Dopamine. And that's a somewhat unusual compound. I'm not aware of many compounds GABA and increase Dopamine. And as you recall, that that tap into the Dopamine system. Now that's a big leap that increases GABA and Dopamine and look at a circuit spelled out on paper in front of us and say, &quot;Oh, there's GABA and and therefore this is a But the effects of Kava in human studies are pretty interesting stress, PTSD and fear. I'm not going to summarize there are eight studies that I'm aware of. But I'll just mention, again, these are double blind studies. So the trial design is solid. The age ranges are anywhere from 18 to 64 which is a nice broad age range. The number of subjects is No signs of hepatotoxic signal although of course, But what was interesting of about three weeks of treatment with anywhere from 150 milligrams of what are called active So there are dosages So a hundred milligrams of extract of Kava is a kind of a reasonable But that spells out to a So you have to kind of boil down to what is the appropriate dosage. And it turns out it's extremely broad. You'll see evidence of 50 milligrams, you'll see evidence of 300 milligrams, is kind of all over the place. But each of these studies point to the fact that a very potent anxiolytic and in depressive symptoms and across the board. So it's an interesting compound. I've never actually tried I just mentioned. Kava, Saffron or Inositol. So I can't report on them personally. I just know that a number are interested in supplements and legal over the counter and psychology. And so that's why I mentioned them. Those were the three for which I found the most convincing evidence and the largest bulk of evidence. So if you're interested in exploring those proceed with caution but they So today we've reviewed a about the biology of pathways that underlie the fear response. And they give rise to chronic fear and in some cases to trauma and PTSD. We also touched on a large to dealing with fear, trauma and PTSD that currently exist in the I also touch on some for instance, this short five minute a day deliberate self-directed through respiration or other approaches of increasing Adrenaline. As an approach that might be viable, I should emphasize might, be viable for enhancing the speed or the potency of or eliminate trauma. Most important I believe is to understand and really think about of the circuits that Because in doing that can think about what sorts make the most sense for them. I also hope that it will help people lean into certain practices provided that's done in Re-exposure to a given traumatic event in an attempt to extinguish that. Obviously you want to do that safely, meaning psychologically There are great practitioners out there that can help you with that work. There are also a number I am certain that are or certain fears that they that are not in the And that's the reason why I including some self-directed practices that might be useful and I realize we covered a If you're enjoying and are and you're not traumatized by the amount of information covered, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero In addition, please subscribe and Spotify. And on apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five star review. If you have suggestions of guests you'd like us to host on the podcast or you have topics that Please put that in the Also, please check out the at the beginning of this episode. That's a terrific way to support us. We also have a Patreon, it's And there you can support this podcast at any level that you like. On this podcast episode and in many previous podcast episodes, I describe supplements. While supplements aren't necessary and perhaps aren't right for everybody many people derive great It is important however, that if you're going to use supplements that they be a very high quality and that you can trust that listed on the supplement bottle are actually what's That's a serious issue with a For that reason, we partnered Because Thorne has the with respect to the quality and the amounts of the are actually what's are They've partnered with as well as the Mayo Clinic. So we have a very high degree If you want to see the Thorne products that I take you can go .com/u/huberman. And there you can see the You can get 20% off any And if you navigate deeper through that portal, you can also get 20% off that Thorne makes. If you're not already on Twitter and Instagram, there I do short neuroscience tutorials. I offer a lot of tools with the content of the podcast. And last but not least, thank you for your interest in science. [bright music]