Hello, my name is Paul Bloom and I'm a Professor And what I want to do today is present a brief of the human mind. Now, I'm admittedly biased, but I think scientific fields. It's the most interesting because it's It's about the most important and intimate So psychologists study everything from language, hate. We study the development of a child. We study mental illnesses like schizophrenia happiness. Now, psychology is such a huge field that Some psychologists study neuroscience, which life. Others, like me, are Developmental Psychologists. We study what happens to make a baby turn We study what makes a baby turn into a child We ask questions like, how does a baby think What do we start off knowing? What do we have to learn? Other psychologists are Social Psychologists. They study human interaction. What's the nature of prejudice? How do we persuade one another? Some Psychologists are Cognitive Psychologists. What that means is they study the mind as at capacities like language, perception, memory, Some Psychologists are Evolutionary Psychologists, in biological origin of the human mind. There are Evolutionary Psychologists. Evolutionary Psychologists are particularly psychologies. So they study the mind with an eye towards What adaptive problems it's been constructed Finally, there's clinical psychology. For many people, this is what psychology means. Many people associate psychology with clinical aspect of psychology. Clinical psychologists are interested in the of mental disorders, disorders like schizophrenia, It would be impossible for me to provide a sub fields of psychology in the time I have. So what I'm going to do instead is I'm I'm gong to focus on compassion, racism, I've chosen these case studies for two reasons. First, each of them is particularly interesting These are questions we're interested in every day lives. And I want to try to persuade you that psychologists them. Second, together they illustrate the range The sort of theories that we construct, the domain. I want to try to give you a feeling for what it out. The first case study is compassion. Compassion... by what I mean by compassion This is particularly interesting to me. This is my own research program and my own of morality in babies and young children. And we particularly focus on the emergence At what point in development do babies care At what point in development does feelings guilt, other moral emotions. How do they arise? To what extent are they built in? To what extent do they have to be learned? As a starting point, I have here a picture the baby's brain. The baby's brain is an extraordinary computing The baby's brain is composed of neurons. Now neurons are basic cells that process and They receive input from other neurons and high, they fire. The brain does its work through collections networks on neuro circuits. Now looked at in that way, the baby's brain It contains roughly 100 billion neurons. Since all of the thinking is done through as the baby grows if more and more connections And by one estimate, there's about 1.8 million per second. To give you a feeling of the complexity of Jeff Hawkins. Imagine a football stadium. Fill it up with cooked spaghetti, then shrink Then make it much, much, much denser. And then you'll have some understanding even a baby's brain. Now, that much we know for sure, but where of that computational structure. The nature of what's going on with all of There's one of view that is held by many brain starts off as a blank slate, what the Rasa." And what goes on in development, the point is sucking up information from the environment. The baby starts off knowing nothing and turns at a tremendously powerful rate. That's one view. Many philosophers and many psychologists, of another view. We don't deny that learning takes place, there is an extraordinary early understanding, The brain could better be understood in terms John Tooby, described as a Swiss Army knife, And each part is specialized for a different Now, so much of the action in psychology has So for instance, in the domain of language, special with the language. We come to know, we come to use language because Other people, most notably the linguists, his work; have argued that there is a specialized language module or language instinct. Learning needs to be done, but it's done Now, I'm not going to talk about language I am going to talk about. And this concerns morality, both moral judgments including compassion. Many people would argue that in that regard, Many people would agree with the classic Onion "New study reveals most children unrepentant The idea is that children start off immoral, know not from good and evil. This is not the view which I think is supported I think there is now more and more data in One that was nicely summarized by Thomas Jefferson. So Thomas Jefferson wrote: "The moral sense leg or arm. It is given to all human beings in stronger them in a greater or lesser degree." This claim, the idea that we grow morality, by Thomas Jefferson's contemporary, Adam Sorry... was supported by Thomas Jefferson's And Adam gives an example of this. He points out that it is a part of our nature As he writes: "When we see a stroke aimed of another person, we naturally shrink and And when it does fall, we feel it in some sufferer." And here is an illustration of this act of Now we know this is true for children. In fact, we know this is true for babies. One way to make a baby cry is to expose it There's sort of contagiousness to the crying. It's not just crying. We also know that if a baby sees another human It seems part of our very nature is to suffer We know that young babies, as they become They will share food, for instance, with their They will sooth. If they see somebody else in pain, even the and pat the person. Maybe hand over a toy. There's some lovely studies finding that when they see somebody who is unable to fulfill aid. So one elegant demonstration of this comes Felix Warneken and Michael Tomasello, where where an adult is in some sort of mild distress even without any prompting. And they find that toddlers typically do. There seems to be some sort of impulse in compassionate. Now, in all of these cases; however, the kindness close to us, who are either physically in parents or our friends. So the question arises, how broad does this Now some people would argue that we start extend it to all individuals, to all people. But there's evidence support a somewhat instinct in us, there's a moral sense in It's only created by those close to us. And our feelings towards others are in fact, at all. In fact, our natural default feelings towards is actually some sort of mixture of fear and We see this in all sorts of different ways. So in young children, we see it in what's At around nine months of age, babies start They fear strangers. And developmental psychologists have helpfully to capture a universal part of development This sort of stranger anxiety fades in some If you were to find yourself in an airport a panic attack because you're surrounded human societies, it might never go away. In a situation when an individual is raised them, that is their circle of compassion. And their response to others is not positive. This is an observation that's been made societies. So for instance, anthropologist, Jared Diamond, Guinea writes, "To venture out of one's lived only a few miles away, was equivalent Many years before, Margaret Meade was talking the time, "primitive cultures." And she is famously a supporter of these lifestyles. She argues that the Western world would be and thoughts and ideas, particularly in regard But she was very honest and very blunt about She writes: "Most primitive tribes feel from a rival group in the forest, the most death." I've talked about fear and hatred, but there's to strangers. This is disgust. Disgust is what Paul Rozin described as the Humans everywhere are disgusted by certain We are disgusted by feces, urine, blood, vomit, Disgust has a characteristic facial response Now, if it was limited to food and cockroaches anything to do with my talk on compassion. But what's most interesting is that we're But what's most interesting is that we are Particularly, we're often disgusted by strange And this is an observation that Charles Darwin, made. Darwin wrote: "In Tierra del Fuego, a native meat and plainly showed disgust at the softness. Whilst I felt utter disgust of my food being did not appear dirty." We have laboratory research that explores and feelings towards out groups. So we know for instance that people differ You do a survey of people. You ask them questions like, how badly would So one of the questions might be, you have And there's some people who say, "uh, Some people, "Oh my god! I'd rather die" or, you sit on a city who was on it. And some people crack up, well why would that Other people say, "That's very disturbing." People differ in how sensitive they are to It turns out that where you stand with regard out groups. It correlates with your feelings about immigrants; minorities, in particular male homosexuals. The more easily disgusted you are, the more We also know this experimentally. We know that by making people be disgusted, I'll give you an example of this. This is from a study I was involved with, the lead investigator. What we did was we brought people into the And we asked him all sorts of questions regarding different policies. What do you think of African-Americans? What do you think of gay men? What do you think of welfare? What do you think of immigration? And so on and so forth. Half the people just filled it out and went The other half of the subjects went into the But the difference was, before they entered spray. That's the first experiment I've ever People would be kind of grossed out. And it would make them meaner. Not towards everything, but it would make like male homosexuals. And this supports the idea that there's emotion of disgust and our feelings towards So what I've argued is, we do have a natural It does not naturally extend to strangers. It does not naturally extend to others. For them our reaction might be hatred, fear, But that raises a puzzle because you and me to strangers, to put it in the language that moral circle has expanded." It might be that our ancestors, it might be about their family and friends, but we have We think about we care about people in other We care about people from other races. We care about people we've never seen before When some sort of disaster strikes like a of us give our resources, even our blood, And that poses a neat psychological puzzle. What forces take our narrow moral circle, bigger and expand it to care for these others? Now I think that there are a lot of different Robert Wright, for instance, has argued that been human interconnections in commerce, in The more people you know, the more people in the world, the more you might care about where you care about them because they're And I think that there's a lot of value But I want to focus on a different, maybe A mechanism that happens to individuals as is, their sympathies expand because of a certain I want to suggest that there is psychological expand our compassion, our moral circle to of them as if they are individual people. In particular, we think of them as if they're We think of them as if they are right in front Now, the importance of thinking about concrete an idea psychologists were forced to come of by monsters and by saints. Joseph Stalin famously said, "A single death And Mother Theresa presented a similar sentiment will never act. If I look at the one, I will." Psychologists like Paul Slovic has explored So for instance, they would do a study where And in fact, they would take the money they And they would, for one group of subjects, in terms of numbers, in terms of the millions proportion of the population who is in desperate And they found that people would give say, For the other group, they didn't bother They didn't bother trying to impress them Rather, they told them a story. They told them a story about a single individual. They had a picture of that individual, they And when you do that, you find that people It's a far more powerful effect on their They will give, roughly, twice as much. Now, this is not a secret. It is not something only psychologists know. Charities, when they try to appeal for people's They typically won't because they know that The way to extend people's compassion, the to some very natural, very hardwired systems And so charities will draw your attention, I know this from a personal story. When I was a graduate student, I was having And I was telling him, I was very persuaded don't give anywhere near enough money to And I was giving him such a hard time about And at some point, totally sick of me, he And I'm thinking, well, I'm making a theoretical **** I don't give anything to charity. So I figured, I felt so bad about this, I Plan U.S.A. and asked them for information And they sent me a packet. And I remember opening up the packet and I and all sorts of information. And they were so much smarter than that 'cause sent me was a child. They had a photograph of the child, they had we know that you're not promising to give were to give, it would go to that individual. That would be the life you would save." It worked for me; I think it's a tremendously And I think more generally, as part of the and bigger. This really matters. People talk about moral progress. People like Peter Singer, Robert Wright, Steven the circle of... our moral circles have been It's not just through individuals as they broader moral circles. We now live in a world where people believe other nationalities that sexism and racism Some of us believe we have obligations toward And this has been happening because of stories, to moral insights and use the power of stories Martha Nussbaum gives a historical example She writes... I have to go **** this. "Although all of the future citizens who asked to have empathy with the suffering of as Trojans and Persians and Africans, such And if you were to doubt the importance of States. There are a lot of different factors that would argue that one of the forces that led wrong was persuasion, in particular, it was in her book, Uncle Tom's Cabin. In particular, it was the work of Harriet In this book, she didn't make logical arguments; proposals. Rather, she got her readers to extend their And this had a profound effect. It had a profound effect persuading them that and changing the fate of the world. The second case study I want to talk about And I want to begin by making a connection In particular the brand of cognitive psychology How we naturally form categories of the things Cognitive psychologists have pointed out that that in order to survive in the world, we You probably have never seen those three pictures one is a dog and one is an apple and one is You will also have intuitions about these you'll make generalizations. You'll believe the dog can bark, the apple you can sit on. Now, you probably also realize that there Some dogs are silent, some apples are poisonous, but still if you couldn't make those generalizations, tend to co-occur with some objects, you would You wouldn't know what to eat, you wouldn't survive. Part of being a successful human, in fact, able to learn. And a good part of what learning is is to of limited experience. You eat a thousand apples, they all taste apples taste good. And when you're hungry, you reach for the This is adaptive, it is rational, it is reasonable. But now there's a twist. The twist is that some of the categories that We form categories on the basis of... we form race, profession, religion, sexual orientation, When you form a category of a person, we have a stereotype. Now, stereotype may sound like a bad word, For one thing, stereotypes are often accurate. Lee Judson finds that when you ask people and political groups and ethnicities and genders, That we're reasonably good statistical learners, Also, stereotypes are often positive, particularly Some of the statistical generalizations may have reputations for being smart, for being that are not at all negative. And so there's nothing inherently wrong But there are problems with stereotypes. For one thing, they're reliable insofar sample, of the population. But a lot of the information we get about how they're represented in the media. And if these sources don't give you an accurate accurate. For example, many Italian-Americans were upset television show, "The Sopranos." This is because, if you are in an area where you see on TV and those you see on "The all mobsters. Many Jews historically have been troubled If the only Jew you know is Shakespeare's bad impression. And so one problem with stereotypes is while taking in information and drawing conclusions and often this can lead to the formation of A second problem is that stereotypes regardless a negative effect on the people that they And this is what the psychologist, Claude So he has a vivid example of this. Here's how to make African-Americans do You have the test and you put on the test The very act of acknowledging that their African-American of their own stereotype, which isn't positive, that makes them do worse. Want to know how to make a woman do worse Same thing, get her to write down her sex. One recent study found a sort of clever twist The study involved testing Asian-American Turns out, when Asian-American women are given race, they do better than they would otherwise They're reminded of the stereotype, but up. You ask them, on the other hand, to mark down women and that's a negative stereotype towards That's an example of how stereotypes have A third problem with stereotypes is, in some our categories of dogs and apples and chairs. But there's a way in which they aren't. We're not dogs and apples and chairs. But we are members of human groups. And by definition, any category of human individuals It's either what psychologists call an in And this fact of how you connect with the the category. There's a lot of evidence suggesting that boost it. You give it higher qualities. People in your group are smarter or nicer, On the other hand, if it's an out group, it's a category that you're in some way We see some vivid historical example of this. In one study in 1942, Americans were asked And they described them as brave and hard-working. In 1948, they were asked the same question. They described them as cruel and conceited. The Russians didn't change, what changed years; they went from being part of a group More generally, we seem to react in a certain them in general as being less rich, less complicated Several studies find that we are less likely If the out group is somebody we don't like, them as savages. If the out group is somebody we kind of like, them as adversaries, we might view them a None of this is accurate and none of this And that's a third problem with stereotypes. The final problem with stereotypes is a moral Even if stereotypes are perfectly accurate, statistics of a group, there are many cases to judge somebody based on their group membership. We should judge them as individuals. For all of these reasons, and maybe mostly tension in how we think about other groups. On the one hand, we want to be consciously thinking of individuals as individuals and stereotypes affect our judgments. And there's some evidence that we succeed You look at the statistics, for instance, portion of Americans who say they would vote And what you could see is, at a certain point says, that they would. And the election of Barrack Obama shows that questions, it really reflects an honest to On the other hand, we also have an unconscious And an unconscious system is more statistics moral concerns. So you get a tension between the conscious which is often driven by bias. So we think the right thing to do is to judge that they belong to, but as individuals, as And is this something that we consciously Most people today or many people today in We want to avoid stereotypes, particularly We want to judge people based on their own and this shows up when you ask people. So for instance, what you see in this graph vote for a qualified African-American to be And what you see is, by the mid-90's is An election of a Barrack Obama as President honestly egalitarian perspective on the part They're not just lying when asked questions. Or consider these data; this is the proportion some ugly stereotypes about blacks. And what you can see is, by the year 2000, And so, this paints a picture of the conscious But what's interesting, and perhaps troubling, conscious mind. We also have an unconscious system that also in terms of stereotypes. This conscious, this unconscious system is bias and it is a lot less sensitive to our So how do we know this sort of unconscious Here we draw upon some very clever studies So for instance, in one study, subjects will be doing some unrelated task and what they consciously process, faces were being flashed These were either white male faces or black Again, they had no conscious awareness that Then they were asked to complete words. So they might a word, H-O-S, and have to complete It turns out if they're seeing white faces; would tend to fill it out with a word like If they were seeing black faces, they would When they were seeing white faces, they would When they were seeing black faces, they would They would tend to associate these black faces with bad things. One striking example of unconscious bias involves And asked who's more American? Well, at some level, this is a ridiculous People would laugh when they hear it. Barrack Obama's more American because he's Tony Blair is British. But unconsciously, you can ask the same question, these faces with words like, "American" And it turns out, based on this sort of implicate and quicker to associate the face of Tony Obama, of course, because Tony Blair has a Now, one response to these sorts of studies, is say, who cares. Consciously, we're egalitarian, consciously quirky unconscious biases that drive our behavior fast. What difference does it make? But there's evidence it does make a difference. There's evidence that these unconscious much in the real world. So consider some studies by Jack Dovidio and They first did this study in 1989, and what candidates and these resumes have pictures. And what the subjects and experiment don't but half of them got it with a white person, And then they were asked, how strongly would Now, if these candidates had strong qualifications, In fact, perhaps the black is a bit more likely But when they had moderate qualifications, was statistically more like to be recommended Not because these people said, I'm a racist, they are swayed by this factor that they might As I said, this was done in 1989. But they did the same study in 1999 and got And they did the same study in 2005, and got Here's a second sort of study suggesting It was a shooting simulation where subjects to shoot when they see somebody reaching for Half the time they're seeing a black person, Sometimes a person has a gun in their hand, Turns out, these subjects again, non-racist, to shoot the black person than the white person. And there's some evidence using law enforcement bias. Not... again, not because they're consciously exploits parts of the mind that are unconscious, The final example I'll give you for why matter is a study by Jennifer Eberhart and They find that once you factor all other considerations, like prior records of crimes, the brutality to be executed if you look like the man on The darker your skin, the more likely a jury And this is a case where one's unconscious So, we're at war with ourselves. We have on the one hand these conscious beliefs think we should behave. On the other hand, we have this unconscious and affects us in ways that we might not know The good news is we're also smart. And part of being smart means that we can that unconscious biases matter less. If we want them to matter less, we can organize One example of this, to give you an example Not too long ago, women were deeply underrepresented And the reason for this, it was argued is They simply, in a fair and biased fashion sound as good. But in part, based on these sorts of discoveries, What they would do is they would have the listen... so that the judges won't know if they are Once this was put into place, the representation It wasn't that originally these were just going to count against them. Rather, these were perhaps good, non-sexist differently from the man. And so when you adjust environment, it allows them to apply a fair standard, a sort of standard And I like this example because it shows how general can shape policy in a good way. But second, it shows how we're smart enough selves get to make the decisions. So that if we think of parts of ourselves we can orchestrate things, so to speak, so The third case study I want to talk about And when it comes to sex, considerations of I think the question of how we evolve and in response to evolution pressure is something It pertains to, certainly, for how we think and morality, and all sorts of other topics language and memory. But it's screamingly obvious in the domain In fact, as soon as you start thinking about with a puzzle. And it's the sort of a puzzle that can only And here's what the puzzle is. What's the difference between males and Well, there's a general answer to this that that goes across every creature on earth. The males are the ones with the small sex To be a male is to have a sperm, which contains The females have the large sex cells. The female sex cell, the egg, also contains it contains food, it contains all the apparatus So here's the puzzle. You look around most animals, not all animals, And the male is bigger and more aggressive. So why would the animal with the smaller sex And this has been a mystery for a very long Robert Trivers, solved it. And he solved it by making reference to the For Trivers... Trivers defines parental investment as any offspring that increases the offspring's ability to invest in other offspring. So given that the organism typically, though leads to a difference in parental investment. A male can ejaculate and then some short periods each time, theory at least producing a new For a female, once she's pregnant, that's That's it for months, is it for years. She can't have another child while she's Often when she's breastfeeding, lactating, So what this means in practical terms is that for males in the sense of children are... than males. What this means is, typically males have less What follows from this, from an economic point for access to females. Both males and females want offspring, that's into number while females can be more into This leads to competition between males. And the competition is of two different sorts. There's competition male against male, which It even leads to the evolution of some species of some animals that exist for males and not to this reproductive logic based on the lower It also leads males to evolve certain traits Females are the scarce resource here. And so males compete with one another to attract The most striking biological example of this peacock. There's a carton I enjoy here because the the crap and show us your willy." Which I like because it sounds sort of British, the evolutionary logic behind what all of So that's the sort of evolutionary biology What does this have to do with humans? Well, we see the same sort of differences, of this asymmetry in parental investment in Human males are larger than human females. Not every human male is larger than every are quite a bit larger. Or, many humans, for instance, human males There are very few human females over six Human males are far more violent than human A lot of this has to do with testosterone, violence; assault, homicide, rape, and so Finally, you get to relative choosiness. Females are, as a rule, more choosy when it And this shows up in a couple of ways, it So, prostitution is a huge industry in the And with very few exceptions, prostitutes Female prostitutes cater to male customers Then there's pornography. Now, pornography may appeal to different sexes, are sort of the equivalent to pornography But what appeals to men is often sort of images This isn't the same as sort of a one-night one-night stand, where this image is enough The only thing interesting I have to say about is not exclusively a human vice. So recent study involved showing pornography What they did was... the question was, would And so you didn't have a financial system where the monkey... at a certain point, the at a picture or turn and sip sweet orange So the question is, what sort of pictures orange juice in order to see? And there were two sorts of pictures that They would pay to see the behinds of female faces of high status male Rhesus monkeys. Sort of like the equivalent of a Playboy Magazine the major human vices, pornography and celebrity Now, you can go on about the differences between and sexual hues and so on, but I want to focus things we have in common, which I think are And one thing that we have in common is an Certain things are beautiful, certain things Some studies find in the first tenth of a how beautiful it is. Your judgment as to how beautiful it is. Now, one immediate response is, well beauty We different tremendously in what we find Cultures differ tremendously, different times, what counts as sexually attractive. And that is entirely true; there are interesting But at the same time, there are also universals. There are certain things that people everywhere And we can use evolutionary theory to makes beautiful. So to some extent, beauty equates to youth. Hues like round eyes, full lips, smooth tight Hues like round eyes, full lips, tight skin they're **** that the person is young, is them and so on. We are drawn to features like absence of deformities, and average faces. And you might think, average faces? That's strange thing to put in beautiful, But it turns out average faces actually look And there's different hues as to why that's face differs from everybody else's face; isn't good. There's more bad things that can happen And so something that deviates from the average viewed as attractive. So what an average face does is it gets rid people tend to find it quite attractive. Now, an immediate response to all of this, for studying... do all their research based on university courses. How general is this? How much does it apply? But there's a lot of evidence that these there are studies that are done across cultures. And most interesting to me at least, is studies So it turns out, it's not just you and me actually babies. Now one accusation that always comes up in data from? And in fact, psychologists are often guilty and then saying that these conclusions apply In this case, studies of human attractiveness pretty much the same findings wherever you Again, there's some interesting differences, The work that's most exciting to me along So adults can rank faces as attractive or think about faces. And it turns out, using babies looking time So how long will they look at a face? It turns out that babies preference for attractive for attractive faces. So for instance, in some wonderful work by show different degrees of averageness across And when a face was very average, a composite to look at it over less average faces. Matching how adults judge faces and suggesting attractive face or an unattractive face isn't learning, but it's part of our hardwiring. It's part of an evolved system, part perhaps with for dealing with people and making judgments So average faces are attractive. You can see this in these faces are not the composites of multiple people and they are average for both males and females. For females, many people will judge a face If you take the features that define a face picture on the right, it tends to look a little For men, you could do the same thing. And this is the wonderful work of Victor Johnston, take your average male face and turn it into looking at on the left. It turns out that women's responses to testosterone ovulating. So if a woman is ovulating, she is more likely while if not, she tends to go back to just It does suggest that our sexual psychologies in all sorts of interesting ways. Now, I've talked so far about attractiveness Looking just at those features, we can see somebody is, but there's a lot more to looking There's a lot of really nice demonstrations believe about a person affects how attractive So, these are two faces we've used in our the absence of other information as a pretty but it turns out, how attractive you find You probably think the person on the left If you find that this belief is mistaken, the one on the right is female, it will change your sexual response to them. It'll change your sexual and romantic response or much older than they look. It will change your response to them if you at a disguised version of your brother or That'll switch your sexual desire right we have a hardwired system that says, you but you won't tend to be sexually aroused More generally, we're strongly affected by who we think that face belongs to. This points to a general fact about the psychology George Bernard Shaw, who defined love as a one person and everybody else. And I want to give as an illustration to this I find it persuasive. It's a story of a woman with Capgras Syndrome. Capgras Syndrome is a very rare neurological delusion. You develop the delusion that the people you by exact duplicates. Now, often the results of Capgras Syndrome People have murdered their husbands, their that they were imposters, they were robots But in at least one case, the result of Capgras This was a case reported in 1931. And according to the description of the case of Capgras Syndrome who complained about her She was happy to report that she had discovered handsome and aristocratic. Of course, it was the same guy, but she was It's reminiscent of a story by Isaac Busheve[ph] and he is bored of everybody in the town, he's seen for so long. He's so sick of her, he decided he's going Find new and exciting people. So he leaves the town. But this being an Isaac Busheve Singer story, He gets turned around and ends up marching He thinks he's going to an entirely different just so happen to look and behave just like He sees his wife, he thinks it's a woman and falls passionately in love with this new I'll say one last thing about our responses It turns out that how attractive you find you like the person. The more you like somebody, they better they This is why spouses in happy marriages will attractive than anyone else finds them. And this is true more generally. In a classic study, David Bus tested people and asked who is your perfect mate? He was largely looking for sex differences He found all sorts of differences in what for. But he also found one similarity, one thing... And this is that, for both, the number one was kindness. All of this in the domain of sex supports which is, as Shakespeare put it, "Love looks What I've done is I've very briefly talked psychology. I talked about compassion. I talked about racism and I've talked about In the course of this, I tried to illustrate in general. And in fact, I started by listing six domains And I want to go back and just very briefly we just talked about. Neuroscience, I started by talking about the point for the question of the development traits. But every domain of psychology, every aspect And in fact, in all of these domains I've and more general, race and stereotyping and people have used the methods of neuroscience, to better understand the processes going on. To better understand how the mind works in I've talked about development and I focused on compassion, but of course there's a huge development of our understanding of groups children racist? Do young children have complicit biases? And of course in the development of romance before puberty differ and how much is it like did these differs take place? These are extraordinarily interesting developmental All three domains connect to social psychology They are all questions about social psychology, other people; how we deal with and make sense And they all connect to questions of cognitive the formation of categories, the comprehension cognitive psychology and central to understanding We've talked about evolution, particularly But of course, the evolutionary psychology issues connecting it with research done with like chimpanzees and monkeys. Similarly, there's a lot of exciting work of other groups. There's work, for instance, done by my colleague, other non-human primates have races in the than that group and that have implicit biases I've said the least about clinical psychology. I brought up on case of Capgras Syndrome as I haven't talked about it, and this is a be said. Clinical psychology is extraordinarily interesting I've talked about. People are interested in the psychopathology They're particularly interested in the psychopathology because this connects to one of the most troubling in clinical psychology, which concerns the There are some of us, apparently, who don't who will destroy other people's lives out And the question of where psychopaths come going wrong with them. Most of all, what can be done about them are I want to end on two notes. The first is a note of humility. I think psychologists and more generally, learned a lot about the mind. But we have a huge way to go. The most clear thing that we don't understand with experience. We understand... we have some glimmering of how physical brain can make judgments, can form categories. And in fact, we build machines, computers things. There's no great mystery here. But we're left with what the philosopher, with consciousness." The hard problem of consciousness is how a meatloaf, can give rise to pain and pleasure, and purpose. How these things can come from a mere physical And we struggle to explain it. This is a problem that goes through every I've said before that I'm a developmental I'm fascinated by the minds of children. This is my son, Zachary, when he was two-years-old. And I think as a developmental psychologist I understand his developing knowledge of the How he makes sense of objects and people. But I don't understand what it's like I don't understand his experience, his phenomenal And I don't think any psychologist understands I think we're at a loss when it comes to But the second theme is optimism. I think we've made huge progress in understanding I think over the last many years, psychologists and philosophers have learned a huge amount is no reason to expect this progress to stop. I think that in the end, the most important of other people, our conception of human groups, we make, the emotions we feel, our sense of and know what's wrong. And the forces that make us act upon is the will be explained through the program of scientific They will be explained through constructing They will be understood through neuroscience. They'll be understood through computation. They'll be understood through evolution. And together, we will come to some real insights Now, some people might find this a scary prospect. I know that there are some people that worry takes away from us somehow. It diminishes us. It makes us less than what we are. I don't agree. I have the opposite reaction, which is that serious scientific point of view; the more uniqueness and its beauty. Thank you.