Good morning, everybody, and welcome back TV show that is beyond parody. Super Mario Bros. Wonder is a new 2D Mario, with the simplest, easiest, laziest challenge Can You NO YOU CAN'T THE END I'M DONE Wow, that WAS lazy! To be extremely clear out of the gate, even it to be no way no how explicitly impossible, game. If you came to this video just to find out saved you an hour, door's over there. Buuuuut, I personally don't care if it's possible. The only way to know for sure is to do it. Can You Beat Super Mario Bros. Wonder Without The rules are simple: we must beat the game, single coin. Given this is literally impossible, we'll things interesting: collecting the maximum We can thankfully very easily track with absolute with the counters in the upper-left of the If a coin is accidentally collected, that Restart Level, which very politely resets of that life, or in scenarios where that's it has the chance to save. And yes, before you ask, a flower coin is Additionally, an important note: some player The Yoshis and Nabbit are explicitly delineated something of an Easy Mode. These characters aren't fully banned, but You unfortunately will not be able to achieve With the rules set, let's get this run started! After selecting the only moral character, level, followed by the quick and easy first Just beating the level isn't enough, though, collectible, Wonder Seeds. We won't be actively going for the Bonus Challenge will either be more difficult or outright We can't be that picky, though: specific levels a certain number of that world's Wonder Seeds, Every standard platforming level has at least 1 for completing the challenge presented by game in unique ways. The Wonder Flower in this first level just so coin dodging is still incredibly easy... only during Wonder Mode, and which form a Buuuut, hold on one second. Pay close attention to what happens when a Our Flower Coin Counter goes up in the decimal If we exit Wonder mode having only collected to 0, effectively erasing the mini coins from Knowing this, WE DO A CROUCH JUMP WITH PRECISE TIMING NARROWLY THERE WILL BE NO SEMANTIC SHENANIGANS! A Coin is a Coin, a Flower Coin is a coin, Coin is a coin, a powerup that converts itself on the world map is a coin, a coin given by sleeping fine tonight. The moment the Wonder Seed is collected, all safely and fully complete the first level Onto level 2: Piranha Plants on Parade. Before even encountering the Wonder Flower, one of these note blocks contains a coin, if you walk on them. The midair blocks also contain coins, limiting Thankfully, while it's a super tight squeeze, crouch jump, and perform two properly timed and below every coin. We will not be grabbing the Wonder Flower: coins along a thin hallway, essentially blocking Outside the Wonder, these coins do not exist. Be careful to jump over the final line of finish the level with 1/3 Wonder Seeds. Similarly, the third level, Scram, Skedaddlers! going for the Wonder: this one gives us the and of course there are coins along the path which way we try to squeeze. We finish with 1/2 Seeds. Getting this far opens the first mini-hub rewards us with our first badge: the Parachute If you're unfamiliar, 1 badge can be equipped bonus attributes, the best of which providing The Parachute Cap, which slows your descent See Break Time: Hurry Hurry. The coins we're expected to run through all empty space inbetween. Landing in these spaces would normally be slowed descent makes it manageable, and thus In addition to descension, The Parachute Cap Heading back into Piranha Plants on Parade, to do a tricky jump across is now a joke. This still isn't enough to get us through exit above this section of land. A normal player would go here after the Wonder, The Parachute Cap wall jump makes that pipe Secret Exits have their own unique Wonder 2/3. We're already encountering some Seeds which Most obviously, every world contains at least and in a shocking twist, the only currency There's also a Poplin running a scam to the rock out of your way until you slip him a Since it's impossible to own coins without and thus all Wonder Seeds in the mini hub Additionally, some levels' Seeds require the Wonder Tokens are very explicitly not coins, and evil. However, since the strem chat pointed out the semantics for now and continue the game away with. In Bulrush Coming Through, keep in mind tall when jumped on, and thus will collect any If you let them live, the main exit Seed is But the Wonder Flower Seed, and the Secret scary, tasking the player with riding on top rain down. Luckily, this is only difficult if you're If you are, instead, bad at video games, you'll of coins. The Bulrush will pity you and lag behind, The rest of the level, and the 2 Wonder Seeds clear with 3/3 Seeds. Here Come the Hoppos is easy save for a minor of mini coins, which you can detach by bouncing Be patient for them to despawn and you can The rest of the seeds necessary to open the be obtained with little effort. That all includes fully completing Wiggler Badge Challenge: Wall-Climb Jump I for 1 seed and KO Arena: Pipe-Rock Rumble for 1 Seed. As I hope you're getting used to, clearing the Flower Coin rewards for fast time requires We now have exactly 14 Wonder Seeds, the amount Palace. Within is a tricky line of coins immediately While I've been told doing a crouch jump over I'm more partial to: head into the level with Hit the block with Elephant, quickly shrink through the opened gap. Bonk Budjer on the head to bank your first Isles. This brief trip to unlocking World 2 is easy, 1/1 Freebie Seeds from Angler Poplin's House, its first Badge Challenge, and 1/2 Seeds from Blewbird Roost. The Dolphin Kick Badge is highly recommended just for its speed, but for its secret secondary in a straight line, briefly ignoring gravity, as you can always be confident precisely where Within World 2: Fluff-Puff Peaks, we quickly Valley. I absolutely must give a shoutout to the Wonder under you as coins approach. There's multiple plot twists along the way fleeing at the last second, and somehow I 3/3 Seeds. That gives the 4 seeds necessary to open a Reaching the Exit will be tricky: when you a straight line, hitting any blocks in their If they hit a coin block, that coin is legally We'll have to either lure the Condarts into hitting the blocks in the first place. By memorizing coin block locations and squeezing problem area: this downward drop, ending with Squeezing past is a no-go since the left Condart murder both Condarts before they can hit the Bring in a Fire Flower and carefully clear Once they and all the brick blocks are cleared timed fireballs below. Soon after are a couple Condarts above trying We can't run past without triggering the Condarts instead, swap to Elephant and use its much away. I'm not even gonna bother attempting the Wonder 1/2 Seeds. Badge Challenge: Floating High Jump I will I recommend intentionally staying as Small The lower height helps with sneaking under We finish with 1/1 Seeds and the new Floating KO Arena: Fluff-Puff Kerfuff gives an easy Jump! Jump! Jump! which seems outlandishly difficult on with rhythmically spawning and despawning of you. But there's a special trick we can use to on the player's position, they're spawning up with the player's expected position. The trick is all rhythm blocks throughout looping pattern, which means the active chunk on isn't the only active chunk. If you enter the level with Bubble and do easy semi-infinite Bubble Bounce combo. Spin jumps coincidentally automatically spit It's only semi-infinite because you'll inevitably bounces are unfeasible. That's fine, though, we don't need to go that and land on a later active chunk of rhythm Since the player isn't expected to be along will be spawning in, making it near identical bank 2/2 Seeds. I was feeling a bit confident in our seed mode and started making the easiest progress difficult. We beat the main path in Up 'n' Down with main path Fluff-Puff Peaks Flying Battleship Cruising with Lifting Links for 1/2 Seeds, Countdown to Drop Down with 1/2 Seeds, where the Spinies it drops legally grant you coins Expert Badge Challenge Spring Feet I for 1/1 Badge, and rounded off our break time with the appropriately for 1/1 Seeds. With the required 14 seeds, we enter Fluff-Puff and abruptly shaking us out of our break time. Halfway through is the most devastating roadblock In order to progress, we must stand on the and you might possibly notice there's something We had the thought of going back for the Wonder up this section for the better, but it does the pipe must be stood on to get through. If only there were another way past the pipe Perhaps we could, uh just maybe, phase through If you turn on online co-op, you'll encounter look at that, youtube.com/wariofan63 is standing In multiplayer mode, the player gains the coil by holding the L and R buttons for a Your soul is incapable of monetary gain, and some of your humanity potentially intact. Would you look at that, we're on the other are at 0! Buuuut hold on one second, this isn't the For unrelated reasons, I installed a camera footage. What's up gamers, Derek here! Today on VG Myths, I'll be playing Super Mario My challenge will be to grab as many delicious Hey look! It's Gamechamp from Youtube! Aw, this is awful, she hasn't grabbed an entire Well, lucky for her, I've been slurping up side of this pipe, thus giving Gamechamp the in which I collected thousands of yum yum Why, I'm so happy, I feel like shouting out 1- The moment we interacted with Wariofan, we made in his game. We're not actually getting past this pipe else collect the coins in our stead. And it's not even just this specific level's coins- and making progress by doing so- in This potentially allows him access to more in a coinless run. The only way to play online multiplayer and pure coinless playthrough is if your online save file. Long story short, phasing through the pipes if your partner has themselves gotten to the the strategy technically works, it only works Does that mean beating this level coinless No, of course it's not impossible, what in All we have to do is stand on the pipe without but is, in fact, completely possible. The hitbox for coin collection and the hitbox with the coin's hitbox being just barely slightly Skip the first two pipes with a long Parachute ground pound to end all horizontal momentum, This is ultra precise and will absolutely the landing the hard part is over. Crouchwalk as the pipe descends to reach the the right to punch Budjer in the face for Important note for the Bonus Challenge: this level's optional Wonder Seed. While transformed into Luigi Toadette, the and the ground pound. No Parachute Cap means we have to do the ledge jumps being harder than the singular jump stopping our momentum. Probably possible in a TAS, but nowhere near Nevertheless, progression will be easy in We collect 1/1 Seeds in Badge Challenge: Dolphin 1/1 Seeds in Wiggle Race: Swimming, and 1/2 Seeds in Downpour Uproar, giving the 8 Petal Isles Seeds necessary to We start off easy with 1/1 freebie Seeds from Ramp up a bit with some tight Parachute Cap Hop Hop and Away, then encounter the completely impossible Break Unreachable Treasure. This level was properly named, and you will We go back to Easy Mode with POOF! Badge Challenge: Crouching High Jump I obtaining Then crank it back up with The Midway Trial: If you ignore the Wonder and just head straight Like the Condarts before them, Hoppycats are obtained by doing so legally belong to the Their jump is triggered if the player jumps Unfortunately, the range extends to the entrance over the coins. Notice the pipe above: that's where we arrive Said Wonder, where you play as a Hoppycat Take damage midway to shrink your horizontal squeeze past some tightly packed mini coins. With the Seed collected, be careful on the If you were thinking we'd float to the right, I was instead thinking we might be able to which was regrettably fruitless. Wall jumps still trigger the Hoppycats, and left wall to avoid eye contact. There is another midair option: if we accept at least over to the halfway point. Then, theoretically, we could work from there I wasn't so ready to accept that demerit, to see if I'd missed any potential upgrades. While searching, I cleared The Anglefish Trial: with 1/2 Seeds, Pole Block Passage in World 2 for 1/2 Seeds. and went back to Bulrush Express in World This one's surprisingly easy: most coins you and crouching gets the job done for the rest. Make sure you're Big Toadette to tank a hit hand to open up the Secret Exit. Said exit unlocks Sproings in the Twilight Cosmic Hoppos where we rush for 1/2 Seeds, and finally what we were looking for: the Though making the game far harder to control, a new ability: we enter Coyote Time for a we're allowed to jump. While Hoppycats PROBABLY respond to Coyote at least worth checking out. Unfortunately, we only get the Jet Run Badge discovered, that is ludicrously impossible. The first jump is easy, but the second has forward. Begrudgingly, I gave up on the ultimately back to theorycrafting. That's when we rediscovered our old secret for: Player #2. At any moment during play, you can add in To be honest, I didn't have much hope this runs of prior games, co-op only helped us eachother bodily harm, which they are now Turns out, co-op is more broken than ever Check out what happens when a player spawns Though &quot;jump&quot; probably isn't the right word. As far as the Hoppycats are concerned, absolutely There's one major caveat to local co-op: while them. Any level in which this strat is used will second controller. That's not an issue here since we're already Trial: Hop to It with 2/2 Seeds. We then quickly obtain 1/2 Seeds in The Sharp and 1/2 Seeds in The Sugarstar Trial: Across I briefly also looked at the optional Wonder happening, at least not if we're unwilling The Wonder inflicts the magnetizing Star powerup, Regardless, we enter The Final Trial: Zip The Secret Exit is necessary for progression, the Hoppy-cat type Wonder Flower. Mistime your jumps to dodge the mini coins, Jumping at the coin-littered end of the slide leading to the Secret Exit. During testing, I've been able to collect triggering the context-sensitive superjump, fully contained within the mini coins' hitboxes. A standard jump doesn't get far enough, ending path. Don't lose hope just yet: the dev-intended on speaking terms. Bring Bubble and Parachute Cap along the ride. At this section, you can get a few bounces Use Parachute Cap wall jumps to fenangle yourself This still won't be enough, though: the devs play the game wrong so they blocked in the Unfortunately for them, I am a *really* stupid Fire a ton of bubbles to the left and make With a couple lucky bounces, you can round ground. Zip under the last handful of coins and grab 1/2 Seeds on The Final Trial, and the third With World 3 cleared we return to the Petal While Worlds 1, 2, and 3 had to be cleared in whatever order the Player chooses. We may as well rush through the hub to unlock The first level is Jewel-Block Cave, which the game's final, best transformation powerup: Drill Form is highly underrated, and for the normal: drilling into ground makes you functionally more broken, often allowing you to skip big Combine that with your upgraded offensive and you've got the most versatile powerup You'll get another permanent upgrade in Badge 1/1 Seeds and the Boosting Spin Jump Badge. This badge essentially gives you a double for ludicrous height and midair control. You can count the number of times you'll want Otherwise, while rushing through the hub, Battleship, 1/2 Seeds in Muncher Fields, 1/1 Seeds in Wiggler Race: Spelunking, 1/1 Seeds in KO Arena: Petal Meddle and 1/2 Seeds in Maw-Maw Mouthful where I to your coin counter, since if a Maw-Maw opens within always coincidentally landing in your I'm also going a little out of order to let later, but you can now head into World 6 and whenever you want. Search Parties are a special type of level your loot intact. Personally, I recommend Drill Form with Bubble With the most versatile version of our moveset 4: the Sunbaked Desert. Grab the Freebie Seed and head into the world I started off easy with 2/2 Seeds in Valley The Crouching High Jump II Badge Challenge, donut block with a one-block gap plugged by We'll have to drop the block to go under, Since this is a Badge Challenge, and Crouching we'll have to cheese a little bit differently. Run under the coins, perform a Crouching High block respawns, clearing the challenge for We continue for 1/1 Seeds in KO Arena: Sunbaked then head into Color Switch Dungeon, where over rows of coins in thin corridors. You can give yourself an easier, faster time along a coniguous surface. In this final zipdash tower, rather than hitting the top. This serves no practical purpose. 2/2 Seeds. Break Time! Lights Out is slightly easier than the devs 1/1 Seeds. With so many easy levels, it was about time In comes the Parachute Cap II Badge Challenge, We can't bring our own powerups into a Badge no-go. I opted instead to expend my only available As a reward, we get *this* jump. Since we already Damage Boosted to get through Theoretically, Yoshi could get through easy not gonna take that demerit without theory The Piranha Plants' hitboxes don't quite fill we can position ourselves there safely. Getting around is the hard part. So we got to thinking: in co-op mode, whenever time just the same as when taking damage. There are coins directly above so make sure Then tiptoe to the other side of the piranha the process. Once you reach the right side of the final yourself for 1/1 Seeds. Back to Easy Mode: Rolling Ball Hall's Wonder clear for 1/2 Seeds. Then back to Impossible Mode, but this time Revver Run features this thin hallway with forward is the one lined with coins. Even if, in an ultra hypothetical scenario, jumped over every coin, the Seed is locked The only way to bop the wall is a revved Revver, the coins along its linear path. Bloomps of the Desert Skies' Wonder has us This is absolutely incredibly easy, until once again surrounded by a wall of mini purples. This time they're not spinning, but that doesn't This Seed is likely fully impossible. We settle for the Exit and 1/2 Seeds. Armads on a Roll presents an interesting challenge. Partway through we're blocked by a giant spinning To bypass it, we switch to Bubble and bounce The Wonder presents exactly the same challenge, speed. There's no special trick to it: you're just three times as fast. There will also be new rings of spinning purples to your jumps lasting a microsecond. Nevertheless, we acquire 2/2 Seeds. For Break Time: Raise the Stage, enter with That's it. We beat The Desert Mystery for 1/2 Seeds, reaching the 15 required for the Sunbaked There are a few tricky jumps, but none that cap's instant immortality. We bank Royal Seed 4 and move on to World First grab the 1/1 Freebie Seeds from Loyal Congratulations! You have officially collected every single We're all so proud of you. To put it another way, we've finally reached no way no how impossible, with zero wiggle In order to truly enter World 5 proper, and beat the game, you must pay 10 Flower Coins As covered before, it's impossible to pay Coins. This is where the Mission Failed finally becomes I'm not quite ready to throw in the flaming For now, there's a separate accessible World Welcome to World 6: Deep Magma Bog. Start off with 1/1 Freebie Seeds at Observatory Dagnabbit. Dagnabbit, Past Gamechamp, do you have any Turns out, Past Me got an idea into her stupid to try it out, so suddenly we're at the Jet really don't need to be. That specific stupid idea was a repurposing Previously, we abused a co-op player's spawning has very little practical use since we can 99% of scenarios. But what if we want more height in a different a ledge in midair? Getting the proper timing on a standard spawn positioned right where we need them to bounce There's an obvious problem doing this in the to babysit two Jet Running players simultaneously, Run until they manually start moving. Spawn Player 2 before the big jump without 1. Position Player 1's Ghost past the coins, and enjoy the show as your carefully constructed of coins. Immediately on executing the prior jump, drop 1, then perform two extremely precisely timed both sets of coins and complete the journey We're not done yet, and will have to do even added difficulty of both players being in Properly positioning a ghost while babysitting my brain is simply incapable of feating. But what if I told you Super Mario Bros. Wonder single use of in this entire run? A game mechanic which completely solves this level for free? &quot;Holding the X button&quot;. Wh- what? Wh- what? What? What? Wha- wha- what? What- in what scenario does this even make Aaaaha, and then you just start moving immediately The emoji button overrides Jet Run. The EMOJI button. The emoji button serves a genuine practical without collecting coins. Since holding the Emoji Button is a relatively at once, keeping one Player ready to jump With a viable strat found for every section it together. Ohohohohoho... &quot;What's Jet Run required for?&quot; It's a level in this video game. Hahahahahahahaaa! Ahahahahahahaha! Ahahahahahahaaaahaha, ahhh that's good. I like that. With that incredibly satisfying and stupidly Magma Bog and enter the Floating High Jump The main plaforms at the start are both difficult The Floating High Jump normally allows for of coins above the ledge preventing that strategy angle allow for jumping from the platforms We're going to have to bring back our secret If you time the respawn juuuuuust right, and measure, they'll bounce over the ledge and The rest of the level is easy solo, just make die painfully and horribly. 1/1 Seeds. Where the Rrrumbas Rule's Wonder is absolutely matter how good at movement you are, you're this tunnel without intersecting with at least We give up and clear the Main and Secret Exits Badge Challenge: Boosting Spin Jump II is Raarghs in the Ruins is a 2/2 clear, Pull, Turn, Burn is a 1/2 clear with Tokens and Observatory #4 is a 1/1 Freebie Clear, The only remaining accessible level is Badge impossible, is impossible. Right at the start, we'd have to do a co-op extra long gap, then we'd have to find some over a vertical line of coins on the next And then, even if we got past that, there launches. I'm not doing it. I'm not that good at video games. But since we've given up there, and have explored time to throw in that burning towel. Similar to World 5, a huge chunk of World The Palace happens to be on our side of the We need 15 total Wonder Seeds to open the of Wonder Seeds accessible on this side of By design, the World is explicitly no way and thus collecting coins. With all hope thoroughly lost, this run is Let's mop up the Wonder Seeds we passed by Back in World 1's Piranha Plants on Parade, That previously impossible line of Mini Purples Spin Jump, updating the level total to 3/3 Scram, Skedaddlers with the magnetizing Star Enter with Bubble and Fire Flower. Bubble is used solely to bounce over the opening Otherwise, swap to Fire Flower, carefully in your way. The coins they carry will drop and eventually If honey barrels are directly in your path, can super quickly touch them and retreat before Don't rush and you can update to 2/2 Seeds. Cosmic Hoppos we update to 2/2 Seeds. Angry Spikes and Sinkin' Pipes' we newly clear Swamp Pipe Crawl looks like it'll have to a pushable pipe. While pushing pipes, you're periodically rewarded However, very stupidly, these coins are specifically in one singular push. If you push a single unit, give up, push a you will never be rewarded. We clear with 2/2 Seeds. In Pipe-Rock Plateau Palace, the Wonder is 1/1 Seeds. In Petal Isles, we start a new level Leaping for 1/2 Seeds. Then, a level we DID clear before, Blewbird The Wonder has us bouncing up this chasm until spinning wall of mini coins. The gaps between are definitely big enough, our jump inside since there's no ground directly It's probably best to not even bother with over and over. Eventually, fate will decide it's bored of Next: Badge Challenge: Wall-Climb Jump 2. This is one of the most intense coinless challenges You've got to reach the top of a giant coin-littered allow for infinite wall climbing. If you wanna try any specific level in the I most recommend. I've got a quest- oh wait yeah. I was think- I was gonna ask- hey did person how did they do this section? Did they do it or say it was impossible? They just landed on the purple coins in the They just jumped around. Assuming they did Max%, they could just also Mah. Easy! Are there coins up here? Okay good, there aren't. 0000! After managing that ludicrous task on strem, away expecting we were in the home stretch. Soon I could finally stop playing the game be coming out long after multiple challenge Then.... something terrible happened. Super Mario Bros. Wonder was murdered. The Mission Failed is revoked! The Super Mario Bros. Wonder Coinless Run Turns out, despite Wonder's local co-op being speedrunners have discovered it is the most Thanks to some bafflingly excellent programming, easy out-of-bounds glitchs enabling the player These glitches involve abuse of the host mechanic One player is designated the host, having This defaults to Controller 1, but is passed For whatever reason, if the players enter choices, even if they don't actually switch of non-Hosts to the Host's side will occur. Also for whatever reason, if the Host is on enough to a free roam area level that their upon teleport, the non-host will *not* lose Or at least, that's what should happen, but none of the guides I was following even mentioned: to didn't move, in this example up and down, would zip back onto the track. Turns out, there's a secret mechanic integral d-pad, like some kind of dumb stupid idiot, Despite the game not appearing to have true in fact, have analog support in a few places Check out what normally happens when the player the analog stick. That's right: the player character will accusatorily This is the dev-intended analog control in The important part isn't the Toadette Drowned with the fact she's receiving our directional Notice, in a free-roam area, the character being able to walk onto tracks. Perform the oob glitch only moving with light direction you want. Additionally, if Player 1 is the one out-of-bounds, to single-player mode. The other out-of-bounds glitch is similar. If the non-Host player is jumping when the teleport occurs. If, during this time, you move the Host onto slightly late, and thus land out-of-bounds. The devs disabled the pause button while any avoid such shenanigans, but the teleport delay Thanks to these glitches, we can now potentially supporting organized crime. Even though we're not supposed to be there, Let's get back to World 6. Going OOB at the entrance allows us to fall The coin-locked bridge still doesn't actually There are two Poplins guarding boulders down pointless shortcut back to the Palace. Break their concept of reality and shimmy should have arrived from: the left half of KO Arena: Magma Flare-Up. Curbstomp for 1/1 Seeds. This level is now in the level select menu, of World 6 whenever we want. With Christmas season started, we enter Wavy with 2/2 Seeds. Then Dragon Boneyard. The Wonder can be cheesed with Bubble: ride wall to skip the rest of the ride, wait for We quickly rush Hot-Hot Hot's main exit for then discover we'd accidentally opened Observatory of the 15 Seeds necessary to open Deep Magma And ever so luckily, this just might be the Engage Budjer in some anime shenanigans to Seed. We now only need 1 Royal Seed to beat the With the end in sight, we head straight to Both variants of the OOB glitch rely on teleporting track. Unfortunately, in this area before repairing I've tried doing some weird random fenangling create any OOB shenanigans. But hold on one second: this isn't technically All Worlds have alternative entrances: for are sectioned off on different parts of the to reach. There's actually already a specific OOB used area to sequence break, allowing the player pipe that comes from there. Unfortunately, Captain Toad probably isn't World 5 has no Captain Toad Entrance Pipe Exit pipe, coming from World 4. We're locked on a linear track in a sectioned going OOB. There's one last World 5 entrance to consider: the player to that World's respective challenge If we can go OOB in the Special World, theoretically level and teleport into World 5 backwards. We already unlocked the World 1 and World give us a bit to work with. Pipe-Rock Plateau Special is surprisingly track, letting us clear it with 2/2 Seeds, hub. World 2's respective Special, Climb to the Jump! Jump!? This level has the same concept, with coins difference: the snaking path moves primarily Attempting an infinite bounce fruitlessly Reversing direction is exceptionally difficult we'll need another shenanigan. If you bounce upward just a little bit when set of snaking rhythm blocks just barely out With two tracks to attack from, I went about near Special 1. Hug the hub's outer lip all the way Southeast, fateful jump. Incredibly astronomically ludicrously frustratingly, the game has yet another glitch which defacto protection that only works in this one stupid I did tons of shenanigans trying to fenangle every time. There's one last, extremely slim hope: we at 6 Seeds we'll open up the Special World's Upon completion of that, a flower pad teleporting I'm not really sure this is actually the same down below. Theoretically we could go OOB up here and 5 Special. To do that, we need to gain access to and 2 more Special World Seeds. We already have access to Petal Isle's Special, No. I briefly looked into World 3's Special: Triple the path directly blocked by walls that turn impossible. World 4's Special is locked behind a chain to earlier. Each level in the chain must be cleared for The first in the chain is Secrets of Shova While we're here, let's get the Wonder done. It's under a pretty stressful soft time limit but is ultimately doable. We clear through the Main Exit for 2/3 Wonder Main Exit doesn't do it, though: we need the That Secret Exit can only be accessed if you If you don't see the problem, you have too As far as I'm aware, there's no way to push We tried using Jet Run's coyote time, which which also doesn't do it. This Secret Exit, and thus the World 4 Special, Our last chance for those 2 Special Seeds reachable with OOB shenanigans. Sadly, OOBing doesn't actually accomplish they're not interactable until you've beaten The first in the chain is locked behind a The natural next step is to collect Seeds old shenanigans again. For the final time, let's run back to every game, why not? Technically Past Gamechamp did this in two Tokens. To make this script vaguely sort of slightly she did it all at once like somebody only During this pass, we incredibly easily clear Break Time! Wonder Token Tunes, 1/1 Seeds, Pokipede Pass, 2/2 Seeds, Pole Block Passage, 2/2 Seeds, Break Time! Cloud Cover, 1/1 Seeds, Break Time! Watery Wonder Tokens, 1/1 Seeds, Fluff-Puff Peaks Flying Battleship, 1/1 Seeds, Countdown to Drop Down, 2/2 Seeds, The Anglefish Trial: Ready, Aim, Fly! 2/2 Seeds, Break Time! Timer-Switch Club, 1/1 Seeds, The Sharp Trial: Launch to Victory, 2/2 Seeds. Break Time! Floating Wonder Tokens, 1/1 Seeds, Break Time! Bouncy Tunes, 1/1 Seeds, Pull, Turn, Burn, 2/2 Seeds, Hot-Hot Hot!, 3/3 Seeds, Leaping Smackerel, 2/2 Seeds, There's a section way back in World 1's first Poplin. We can go OOB nearby, but attempts to cross down to the center of the earth. So why not just activate OOB while the Host Turns out the devs paradoxically thought of all players are instantly forced to the Host's I tried a few alternative methods of activating non-Host Player standing in the same spot, cancelling the glitch. With all ideas exhausted, I'm just going to as Impossible until new tech is found. Using Drill and Boosting Spin Jump we can Timer-Switch Dash for 1/1 Seeds, then The Desert Mystery's Wonder for 2/2 Seeds. Condarts Away. The Wonder we'd skipped is a Zelda-like where Be cautious when nearing the end. The Condart will likely dive into the left Damage boost above to lure it into the coinless Up N Down with Puffy Lifts. Here we confirm the Wonder simply isn't happening. Our Lift form is too wide to make this jump Cruising with Linking Lifts' Wonder is one game: we're trapped on the titular Linking replaced while it's literally raining coins. Hidden within the deluge are Wonder Tokens To make this a little bit easier, ground pound That activates them without collecting any Don't worry about collecting the Wonder Tokens if they fall. As for dodging the coins, I can't really give instinct and even then is basically impossible. So impossible I have a different piece of get your butt outta there. At the halfway point you can abandon the lift, the finale early. Wait at the very left edge and slowly inch The Lakitu will follow your lead, throwing out behind you. Pick out the Tokens one by one and clear with Break Time! Zip Go Round! No. Search Party: Puzzling Park, I'll just let Four tokens are no problem, but the fifth just so happens to contain two coins lining edges to slide down. Search Party: An Empty Park begins with a devs intend should be bonked and used as platforms. The blocks containing Wonder Buds are safe, Boosting Spin Jump and Bubble bounces. I didn't encounter any more coins once reaching Break Time: Treasure Vault. We're supposed to drill through a tight corridor That doesn't mean we can't collect the Seed This particular stretch is too thin for players If you try to spawn a second player at an backup mechanic for finding valid space: a position. The nearest valid space just so happens to 1/1 Seeds! Rolling-Ball Hall's Wonder is easily cheesed into a sliding state and forced to make some Boosting Spin Jump is highly recommended. 2/2 Seeds. Ninji Jump Party features a set of mini purple the only path upward. As we've already learned, there's still a Inch onto the leftmost platform's left side. Once there, jump into and past the Token. The gate behind will dodge at the last second. 2/2 Seeds. Search Party: Pipe Park features one problem room. You need to pull the pulley further than is it break off. The devs intend on you making an extra path But if you're feeling cheesy, you can just while it's still attached to the chain. 1/1 Seeds. Sunbaked Desert Palace's Wonder makes the Obviously, moving at high speed will be more Abuse drill immortality during speed up, and motion for 1/1 Seeds. Back in World 6, I did more OOB shenanigans Deep Magma Bog Observatory #2 is unfortunately until paying a fee. OOBing wasn't fruitless, though. If you walk directly into the left walls you'll level. This allows us to get on the left side of Walk in the right spot and you'll trigger Flying Battleship. It'll be slightly wonked, but regardless the It's gonna be a tough one: an autoscroller This one in particular will require precise long enough to get over the ledge but short Shortly after the Checkpoint is an ultra trick so drop down, wall jump across, and Wall Jump If you're going for a simple Wonderless clear, the entire run, which I heavily recommend After stalling the flames, descend the far Spin jump with super precise timing to fit This is way harder than it looks since the waiting on about a half-second timer. Doing all that to complete the level Wonderless At first I was worried the Wonder would be the flower is directly above a column of coins. The Switch hitbox width appears to be thinner But turns out, Drill has a special property, from below. A Drill Player's Switch-pressing hitbox is coins remains the same, making the Switch With the Wonder activated, Bowser will destroy ultra precise dropping Spin Jump, allowing Break Time! Hot-Hot Rocks. The Seed appears when all rocks are cooled Each glob of water can potentially grant an flower animation. Cooling down a rock causes the water to dissipate to get lucky with a couple dice rolls to finish Deep Magma Bog Palace's Wonder is easy, just The moment you enter Wonder, coins appear where you spawn in. Wait for the opening to be above you before Downpour Uproar's Wonder ends with a familiar Even if they were standing still, they're hitbox through, making this Seed definitively Jewel-Block Cave's Wonder features a giant crystal blocks, some of which containing coins. It seems like a nightmare, but with a little Dig through the empty blocks to the right edge. While the Wonder Bud spawns coins, you'd have Stop at the mini coin block, wait for the a direct path of empty blocks to the floor. 2/2 Seeds. Gnawsher Lair is an easy one, but I have to by Gnawshers will never grant you coins, coin coins, and if a Gnawsher touches a POW Block, You'll have to babysit the POW Blocks, throwing Otherwise, 2/2 Seeds. Muncher Field's Wonder Flower is right here. In order to get there, we need to move through No. Maw-Maw Mouthful's Wonder No. Search Party: Item Park. Once again, four Tokens can be grabbed coinless problem. It spawns after 3 Cheep Cheeps, located behind The only offensive option that can reach them When an enemy is Bubbled, they turn into a player's pocket upon popping, which happens Defeating these Cheep Cheeps without turning but that doesn't mean we have to collect them. Murder a Cheep Cheep and make a break for If the bubble is far enough off-screen it Repeat three times to clear this level with With that, we've exhausted every Seed in the ludicrous shenanigans. Time to get weird. Remember those impassable coin walls in The They're only impassable while we're in the While we're not in the Wonder, we can walk If only there were some way to vicariously progress. But Miss Gamerchamp, didn't you say online I'm the best! No, I didn't, stop putting words in my mouth, impersonator! Online multiplayer *with players who have If they *haven't* collected coins, they're And since randomly encounter a coinless player other player is gonna have to be you. In order to do this run once, you have to On two separate consoles, on two separate Online subscriptions! God damn. After wasting just enough of your precious Trial coinless a second time, run forward in a spot you know to be safe. Back on Switch #1, enter Wonder, get as far Your other self outside the Wonder, who is teleporting you past the gauntlet. Repeat until you reach the Seed, thus coinlessly On one Switch at least. The other gave up and quit the level. What a loser. In Muncher Fields, notice there's a bit of coins blocking us and the coins themselves. We can abuse that space by reviving on a partner's to the opposite side of the Wonder Bud without The actual Wonder is easy, so we obtain 2/2 That's kind of it for the asyncronous shenanigans The rest of the Wonder Seeds are either in or have a Transformation-based Wonder. The devs included a failsafe for transformations. Transformed Wondered players are placed in of interacting with Non-Wondered players. You can even see it happening on-screen: Players fade away. I was about ready to call this run done... but then we made the stupidest realization Okay, so... what I'm gonna do is have Daisy Bam! Paused players are legally valid Ghost revival This exceptionally obvious lategame discovery on VG Myths. So stupid, I can't even properly show you: Switches at the same time! Here's a demo so you can at least understand With one Switch, you're going to jump in the Then, you swap to the other Switch, ghost Swapping back to the original Switch, you'll above you. Ghost over to them and pause. With endless repitition, you've functionally Whenever you see me pausing here in the original Switch for thirty seconds. Remember that outlandishly tall column of With an infinite jump, getting past is practically The final stretch of the level is an ultra with coins. Rather than bothering, simply die painfully dozen times. This stupidly easy strategy totally breaks obtain 1/1 Seeds. If I'd figured out this strat earlier, this Let's take this newfound knowledge back to First, Maw-Maw Mouthful. Before Wondering, walk along the stage ahead; into eating. With setup done, backtrack and activate the There's no Maw-Maw close enough to eat these short, so you'll have to be especially persistent Slowly edge the Ghost player into the Paused in, pause buffering as you get close. Keep pausing and unpausing until the moment screen: that marks the moment they've successfully By continually repeating this with both Switches, of height every time you revive. You can throw your second Switch in the trash the level no different from a casual playthrough, This absurdly broken player bridging strategy Trial: Zip-Track Dash: swap Switches across clouds marking the downward arc of the dev-intended There's one more unbeaten level where bridging of the Goomba. This time we have to bridge directly over You can't self-destruct fast enough after where Restart Level comes in: it functionally Simply re-enter Wonder to continue bridging. In some instances we'll have to get more clever, and I honestly don't remember that well but not looking at. Wow! Did you see that? It really happened! Unfortunately, the online ghost strategy has When moving at full speed from behind the to this donut block halfway through the level That means our double Nintendo Switch strategy We're gonna have to up the ante to QUADRUPLE With Quadruple copies of Super Mario Bros. And quadruple Nintendo Switch Online subscriptions! God damn! Unfortunately, after doing some research, this crap is not a viable strategy. We're gonna have to trick some losers who Off the top of my head, I knew who I had to We're gonna play Super Mario Bros. Wonder oh he has a life. I knew who I had to call. We're gonna play Super Mario Bros. Wonder oh he has a life too? I knew who I had to call, we're gonna play Who doesn't have a life? Hey, Wariofan! What's up Derek, gamers here- Yeah, yeah, I know I know, question: do you I think so? Well, we're gonna change that. Oh cheese and rice, my name is Taka and I Oh good, and you brought a friend! How would the both of you like to hate everything? After roping your friends in quotation marks own Coinless save files from scratch, following Don't be afraid to lend a helping hand in After all, your own save file is itself coinless. Now that we have 4 Nintendo Switches simultaneously on 4 active Nintendo Switch online subscribing Coinless playthroughs, we can make a tiny of going beyond parody is fulfilled. Get Wariofan to pause on the donut block and pay off: he is now immortalized halfway through If you're wondering why we didn't just use don't have hands with which to place standees, Continue the level as normal, until reaching sooner than last time. Every time a player is revived within a single Have Taka realize her destiny 3/4s through Super Mario Bros. Wonder only supports up time, so 4 Nintendo Switches running 4 copies Switch Online subscribing accounts is the And terrifyingly, you may have noticed a pattern: reach about 7/8ths through the level before That gets us to this pit. We're now too far for a ghost to reach from Restarts Course, the other will be totally of a Goomba. We have to somehow bridge over these next being put into a position where they'll fall Self-destructing in midair is a no-go: even go Ghost fast enough. While pathetically attempting to apologize I wasted for absolutely no reason, I realized one. Bridge to as high an elevation as possible, When it's time to fall back down, move in rapidly pausing to ensure you don't overshoot As long as you keep hold of the run button, regardless of starting position. Once on the opposite side, the Seed is in deadly hazard: two coins hovering slightly Going under is too dangerous to consider and Instead, we'll have to do it semi-legit. *gasp* Yes! Yes! Yeeees! Now what? There's a- I've gotta get over there. Awgh. My heart is racing so bad, so bad! So bad! Oh my god. Oh my go- this is the easiest jump ever but I cannot do this! Oh my god- You know maybe, maybe you know just pause Yeah, I am pausing for a sec- I can't- I... I am shaking so bad right now. I know that feeling though, where it's like world.&quot; Mhmm. But I am small Toadette. I should have thought of that! I should have brought a powerup. I- I didn't think that when I got KO'd before, I probly wanna keep a powerup for the end Is-is there anything like, could- could your come- come back and do it or are they stuck They- oh, they're stuck in the Wonder zone Oh yeah, they're- ha, they're locked in the Yeah, they're- they're- there's no way they're Yeah, naw, I mean, this is just to clear the Oh my god- WHOO AHAHAHAHOOO oh my god oh my Now we just have to hope to good heck that level we just unlocked. Ah, there's- there's a screenshot for the Aw, that's Poplin was like staring out his C'mon, just jump! What's- what are they doing?&quot; &quot;Just gr- just take one coin!&quot; After only 3 hours of hell, Way of the Goomba Gamechamp, that was the worst experience I've Please tell me I get to do it again. I never thought you'd ask! Welcome back to Shining Falls Special: Triple You might remember this is the level where into a figurative wall of coins. At first glance, it's impossible, but I got Remember Treasure Vault, which we cheesed location, thus turning them into a spinning I tried to cheese just such a thing here in by trying to spawn on the open sky. While doing this, I accidentally discovered Online players' current positions are not If you pause the game, your Switch will apparently current location data, so if that data is These videos were recorded simultaneously. Notice on Switch #2, Toadette appears to be is not. Since our Switch *thinks* the other player the rotating orb activates, and bam! We phase through solid matter! Through clever abuse of friendship, you can shenanigans as many times as necessary. There's just one part that can't be shenanigan'd: surrounding them. With one final shenanigan, complete the Wonder With your friends thoroughly exploited, throw levels that wall shenanigans will be helpful In Revver Run, I'd previously said only a the Seed, but that's only true for the dev-intended Ground pound with one character at the point just before hitting the ground. Hopefully your location will desync slightly With a few wibblewobbly shenanigans, you can and even spawn below the ledge. Once low enough, you can cease your spawning in Elephant form to earn 1/1 Seeds. With all unfinished business complete, it's the game. Or at least, it would be, but I've got some We took too long. Amid all the discoveries and plot twists that their broken game, patching out both OOB methods. While normally this wouldn't be a big deal game when I'm working on a video, this run if you're not on the most recent patch. The patch went live just before our Way of of a choice. I didn't necessarily expect we'd actually we didn't get the chance to find out for sure Nevertheless, we've still got that Bonus Challenge With the Flower Kingdom thoroughly explored, ends in a Mission Failed with 5 Royal Seeds And hoooooooly heck drowning in oatmeal, is If you'd like to try the run out yourself, and stupid, if you start on Version 1.0.0 the game, I'm pretty sure you can still get reasons you may want to settle for the solo Either way, it adds a ton of new life to the And while you're at it, maybe try and keep A new perspective can work wonders. Hey, Taka? Do you think Gamechamp is coming back to get No I do not. Well, it's too bad we're stuck here, because so I can make more episodes of Ninchronicles, library. And I want to get back to making content on Do you wanna tell the folks at home what you No. Special thanks to all Patreon backers, including: Let me know how much this video sucks and playing video games with my hands in Apologies to my former friends for forgetting my house. Aw, jeez, I don't think I can stand like this much longer, I've gotta stretch Wariofan, be careful! Aah- -aaaaaaaah Here is a big one! Bus-