July 20th, 1969. The day the world changed forever. You could say it began when a president dared his countrymen to cast their gaze to space. &quot;We choose to go to the moon.&quot; Or you could say it had its origins hundreds of thousands of years before, when our distant ancestors ...and wondered what was out Regardless of when it started, something new happened that day. For the first time in the a human being set foot on something other than the planet Earth. It was an accomplishment unlike any in the history of the world. And the reaction amongst the people of the country that pulled it off was... &quot;meh. I guess it's fine ... if that's your thing.&quot; Folks, it doesn't get much From the beginning of time until December 16th, Then, on December 17th, in the Wright brothers changed all that. So, how's this for progress? It takes about 300,000 years for humans to get a plane in the sky... ...for about 12 seconds. And then, within just another 66 years... ...we're standing on Boy, talk about your late bloomers. But while we now look of the space race as a rare ...nothing could be In fact, polling records show that for almost the entirety of the 1960s, a majority of Americans didn't think that the Apollo program's was worth the cost. Many of them believed better spent helping In the more than half human endeavors in space Today, for instance, much is coming from the private sector. But at least one thing A lot of people still think it's a waste. And sure, some of them are just cranky dudes on the internet, but some of them are We need some of the and minds fixed on trying not trying to find the First off, let's remember: he's British royalty. We fought a war for the right But second: Does he have a point? I mean, there are plenty Is space exploration ...and the cost? Well, if you're like many Americans, the cost is probably a One famous survey found that Americans estimated that NASA gets about one quarter of the entire federal budget. And if that were the case... ...we'd have a Disneyland on Saturn. The actual amount of the federal budget that goes to NASA: less than In fact, we spend over 15 times more just on interest payments So the cost: not as much as you think. And the benefits: probably Let's start with a pretty basic one: Keeping space from murdering us! Yeah, no space program, to try to detect planet killing asteroids. And the security implications go beyond protecting us from homicidal space rocks. It's also a matter of protecting The intelligence community Chinese and Russian space just between 2019 and 2021. Part of the reason: Because, as that same report notes, China sees the ability to as a way to shut down our A strategy designed to quote Even North Korea has a space program... ...though so far, it's just a guy with a jet pack on a trampoline. And these kinds of are one reason we may wanna take it a bit easier on the billionaires. After the US ended its space American astronauts unless they traveled Which Vladimir Putin was ...at $86 million a seat. The reason that's come to an end? because now our astronauts using Elon Musk's SpaceX. Which is also likely to SpaceX hopes to harness that sends our astronauts to space to someday transport passengers anyplace in the world in under an hour. They estimate that the trip from New York city to Shanghai So, roughly the length And this wouldn't be the designed for space has NASA is a big part of in our cell phones - and the GPS systems. Their technology is central to CAT scans and the methods we use to de-ice planes. Hell, they even provided the gold coating that's used for an Oscar. Okay, don't hold that one against them. The technology involved cochlear implants, and Enriched baby formula? From NASA. The tech we use to clean Tang? Not from NASA, Bottom line: We don't we go as an investment ... in our safety, in our technology, and in our future. And yes, we also go to space for the sake of discovery itself. To answer the kinds of questions that captivated our What's out there? What don't we know? And ... how exactly do the North Koreans think this is going to work?