I'm often asked, are great strategic made? And my answer is always yes. It's like so many important and valuable a mixture of nature and nurture and experience. You're not going to become a world-class physiology, the right muscles, the but you still need to train very hard, and it's very similar with You certainly are born with an endowment. Some people are naturally better at it but there's so much you can do to And I always tell people, don't worry Focus on the improvement because my research shows definitively effective strategic thinker. I'm Michael Watkins. I'm a professor of at the IMD Business School in My book is &quot;The Six Disciplines of Strategic thinking has always been a Leaders must be able to recognize emerging challenges and opportunities, establish the right priorities to focus their organizations, and, critically, mobilize their people to do to the many changes that are going In the research I did on I identified six key mental disciplines that underlie prioritize, and mobilize. Pattern recognition is a foundational discipline of strategic thinking. The ability to find the signal, the in what can be a sea of noise. Not just absorbing what's happening, but connection. When grandmasters look at a chessboard, they don't just see pieces. They don't They see the most important patterns that exist in that configuration. They see opportunity. They see concentrations of power. They see potential vulnerabilities. At the heart of your ability as a leader is the discipline of systems analysis. It's absolutely essential, of course, that features and dynamics of the system that you're talking about. But given the very, very high levels today, no human being and indeed, so far, no computer is able to flawlessly model the entire set that constitute a complicated system. One example I use is climate, where today we have very good models of simplifications of reality. They model large chunks of the atmosphere, in ways that are really kind of, But they do capture the most of the overall climate system in a way that lets you make As you focus on the discipline of it's important to understand this idea of There's a CEO I work with who describes The ability to move from a high-level big picture of what's going on, but also to drill down into the detail The great strategic thinkers I know are analysis and do so fluidly and also intentionally. Structured problem-solving is what you do to help them engage in rigorous processes of framing and solving the problems that the organization faces. The structured part is really essential because it ensures that you're doing a that's the framing part, and then generating and testing the right solution. There can be many stakeholders involved And so it's essential, therefore, to that moves people through that, you know, framing and solving such that at the end of the process, they're in alignment, if not enthusiastic, about what happens going forward. At its core, visioning is the future to which you are trying to move a compelling portrait of where we are and why we should feel excited about There's a core tension you need to manage between ambition and achievability. Err too far on the side of ambition. You're creating something people won't feel like they can and ultimately does exactly what you're people. Err too far on the side of achievability, it's too easy, it's not ambitious enough, it's not It doesn't really fundamentally motivate them. And finally, politics is an and there's simply no avoiding it. There tactics that you can use that will help you influence people. A classic example of this is what's known This is really about being thoughtful people and how you engage in order to build momentum in the go. I'm going to talk first to Christian, and then I'm going to talk to Stephanie. And if I have Christian and Stephanie on going to be easier. And I need to be careful in the process not to overplay things in a way that what I'm trying to do and start to do things to mobilize potential opposition. Just think about this process of moving people step by step to a place that they wouldn't have gone in The people making the decisions about the importance of strategic thinking about whether you will advance or not. And this just amplifies the importance of focusing as much as possible on It really is the fast track to the top.