This is the story of challengers 8th mission on the 12th of July 1985, the space shuttle The space shuttle was carrying space lab 2, the ESA, A helium cooled IR telescope and designed cans so that astronauts could drink Actually coke had their can ready to go on administration to not let coke be the first Anyway the countdown on the 12th was scrubbed the space shuttle's main RS-25 engines malfunctioned The coolant valve had to partially close for open to 70% open but this didn't happen. They had to abandon their launch attempt and 29th of july 1985, and on the 29th all the were a go for launch, at 5 pm edt after a was on her way to space, the engines ramped tower and as she executed the roll program, The engines are throttled back at max-q or loads on the vehicle. Challenger made it through max-q, and when pad huston came on the frequency and said up" giving them the all clear to push the So far so good the APUs and the fuel cells One minute and 30 seconds into the flight at 2000 feet per second. A while later the solid rocket boosters fell to get challenger into orbit. 5 minutes and 5 seconds had gone by still, Suddenly a voice comes over the radio and was quickly followed up by "challenger huston Challengers engine number 1 had failed and Now i am using the word reject instead of Just bear with me ok? ATO was a way to safely reject the launch, wouldn't be able to reach their intended orbit lower orbit than the targeted orbit. This reject call was made based off of a flurry At the flight dynamics console two people had been pouring over the ARD or the reject It was a computer that gave them their reject A person by the name of Jenny Howard monitored beamed down from challenger. As her data told her the bad news jenny howard director loop. Focus was now on perry and bruce, they now what to do. Challenger at this point was at an altitude nm. Challenger was too far away to attempt a return Challenger could make it to a lower orbit that call brian perry his flight dynamics the external fuel tank which was still attached The math checked out they would be able to orbit , and thats how huston made the ATO Once the shuttle crew got the ATO command turned a rotary dial in the cockpit to the The shuttle responded by powering up the OMS thrusters on the space shuttle that are used burning about 4400 pounds or 2000 kilos of thrust to the vehicle but it did make the All of this, from the engine failing to them the math and then dumping the OMS fuel all amazing. Seven minutes into the flight the shuttle meaning that it could now land in europe, over there was still the problem of the external to europe but for a safe disposal of the external online a bit longer as challenger climbed. The only place to go was up. But really no one had experienced this before this but this was the real deal there was shuttle. Jenny made a gamble She said "flight limits the computers to ignore a certain type of this in detail later. She had essentially taken away a computerized monitor the engine data 9 minutes and 42 seconds after takeoff challenger Challenger was now travelling at 25,760 feet The external tank then came off; they gave into the atmosphere. The tank impacted the indian ocean south of NASAs best had performed under pressure , sure to be but challenger was safe, out of 135 they had to reject the launch to a lower than So before we can dive into what went wrong Rocket engines much like jet engines require need oxidisers to supplement their fuel cause engine is just a fuel tank and an oxidiser The fuel and the oxidiser mix and the whole of engines are very very reliable. For example the ascent stage of the apollo when youre on the surface of the moon you But these engines have their limits, if you the issue with that is that to increase the fuel and the oxidiser at a higher thrust and tanks it also means that a tank failure is So the solution? Add a fuel pump, the fuel pump will pressurize at high pressure but the tanks arent. Thats all well and good but these pumps or and pressurize insane amounts of fuel and On smaller engines like rocket labs rutherford but on bigger engines thats just not gonna Thats where a pre burner comes in, the pre engine, in this the preburner takes a little burns it in the process itll generate a lot which in turn drives the turbopumps. The problem with this engine is that youre but thats not translating into thrust. So now what you can do is just take that exhaust But that throws the pressures in the preburner greatly. To get over this issue they decided to have One prebruner for the fuel loop and one for In the schematic of the RS-25 engines used a fuel preburner and an oxidiser preburner. So now we have a fuel preburner driving a driving an oxidiser turbo pump. By the way if you want a more indepth explanation that below. Ok great you're up to speed. Deep inside the RS-25 engine two platinum of the fuel pump, A computer measured the it was the higher the wires resistance. So from that the computer could calculate temperature sensors making for 6 in total As challenger climbed, the temperature indicated well. About 100 seconds later sensor B on engine fuel pump temperature readings for engine The computer saw that one sensor had failed shut engine number 1 down. With that challenger continued on to orbit, both of those engines to work flawlessly to sensor failed in engine number three and the This was the failure of engine number 1 all the call "flight, limits to inhibit" shes data from the sensors and to just keep the When she made that call they could not make safely, they needed both engines right now that they had. I previously called this a gamble and it really and computers is so that the computer can that it doesn't catastrophically explode. With those protections gone, a person now shutdown as fast a computer would. So why not just ditch the external fuel tank A TAL or a trans atlantic landing was an option If you had the option to reach orbit that Secondly you couldn't just jettison the external shuttle and since only two engines were running longer and lastly the engine failure moved the tank at the point that you usually would If you just jettisoned the tank at a random falling in a population center. So really jettisoning the tank early was out In the end they found out that the sensors were fine, Nasa decided to build a more robust and it worked, this was the only time an engine So did Jenny and bruce save the day? Honestly we dont know. Heres a quote from tom holloway from the flight she took relative to that last sensor was say 'she saved the Shuttle,' since it is very have shut No. 3 down, But it certainly is have saved the Shuttle. If we were passing out medals for that day. I think both Howard and Perry would have gotten They both did just the right thing, and quickly.&quot; Heres a quote from Jenny "&quot;I was a little news media,&quot; she said. &quot;I just didn't want another engine to go down, to protect against that. That's our job. What do you think? Do you think that jenny and bruce saved challenger? Let me know in the comments below. In the end the rest of the mission went off goals the telescope did its thing and yes