(dramatic music) - [Micah] Soaky Mountain has - We've been sent to eradicate the water zombie infection and rescue a team of scientists - Where is the alpha zombie? - There is no alpha. (zombie fighters gasp) No alpha. Eliminating the alpha is - How are we supposed to take them out? - We don't know. - This is my first official mission, why am I in the zombie apocalypse? - Some of you will get infected. - Okay. - We've placed a containment but it won't hold for long. If the zombies get out, there will be no stopping them. Your blasters have been loaded with an antivirus serum in your water that stuns the zombies. - There is a team of scientists while they were working on a cure. We must find them. (blasters click) - Roll out. - Thank you, bus driver. - It's the zombie apocalypse, why are we thanking the bus driver? - You always thank the bus driver. - I'm sorry. Thank you, bus driver. (upbeat music) (gates clank) (dramatic music) - Where is everyone? Isn't this place supposed - We got rid of them. Good job, everyone, back to the bus. - Get back here. (dramatic music continues) - This way. (water ripples) (eerie music) - What is it? (dramatic music) (Micah gasps) - Nothing. It's just the wind. (tense music) (water guns slosh) (Micah groans) (Micah screams) (water guns splash) - How could Micah turn? The zombies, they didn't even get to him. - One drop is all it takes. Not a drop. Not a single drop can get on you. - So can I be the alpha now? - There is no alpha. - You're literally the last - Well, that's just hurtful. (upbeat music) - Everybody remain calm. Don't panic because if we start panicking, there-- (water guns blast) (Elijah gasps) (water guns blast) (upbeat music) - Why are you wearing goggles? - Because if zombie water it'll just hit these goggles - If water gets anywhere, - But it won't hit my eyes. - Gimme the goggles. Where are the scientists? - I was told they're being (dramatic music) Lorenzo, get away from the water. (water splashes) (water bubbles) There! (water blaster blasts water) - I'll check their food. - What happened here? - Zombies. - Well, yes, I know, but like before that? - We don't know. We were researching a cure for the zombie virus when this new breed spontaneously from the - You were researching the - Oh no. There's no food in the cafeteria. I'm sorry. Yours is more important. - The custodians must have been the ones who sent the zombies. - What? No, the custodians have been - Wait, the custodians aren't - No, they've been protecting for thousands of years They're the ones that gave us the information we need for our research. - Can you stop this breed of zombies? - When the outbreak occurred, where we were developing the cure. It's on the other side of the park. - We're saved. I found a pizza. - Let's get you over there. (energetic music) took care of the outbreaks, but more keep happening. If we can only find a way to contact them, they could fix all this. (zombies grunt) (water guns blast) - Back to the bunker. Back to the bunker. - No, stay with us! (zombies growl) No! No! (water splashes) - What do we do? - We have to go for the cure research. - The custodians might be able to help us deal with this outbreak, but how can we contact them from here? - We can't, but headquarters can. If we can get to the top one - Let's do it. Judah, you take Miller. The rest of us will go for the cure. - Hey, hold on. Our mission sounds way more dangerous. - Would you do it for a Scooby-snack? - No. - Two Scooby-snacks? - Yes, let's go. (upbeat music) - Supplies! - Load up our fresh blasters with the anti-virus serum in it. - Largest water blaster ever made. It's good to see ya. - Are you talking to your blaster? - Maybe. (upbeat music) (Elijah chuckles) - Let's see what destiny Oh, come on! - [Josiah] Let's move! - Do you ever feel like Like you're just a side character leading up his own little mission? - Every day. - Huh? (energetic music) - Run! - We gotta get down there. - The ride's the quickest way down. - Yeah. (breathes heavily) (zombies scream) (water splashes) (zombies groaning) - Run! (zombies splash water) - Oh no. - Oh no, I got a drop on me. I gotta drop. Oh wait, no, nevermind. It's just my spit. (energetic music) - Here. We just have to make to make the call. - They can blast water - Great. This can't possibly get any worse. (dramatic music) (zombies groan) - What if the zombies to get around faster than us? - I mean, yeah, that would be way worse. Oh, come on. (energetic music) David. What are you doing in there? - I was one of the first responders to answer the scientist's distress call and before I became a zombie, I locked myself in here so - How many days have you been in there? - One too many. If you could just push the button, flush me into the system, that'd be great. - Okay. (button clicks) - Thank you! (energetic music) (tense music) (metal clanks) (Josiah screams) - We're normal. - And by normal he means - Are you the scientist - Working on the cure? It's already finished. - Finished? Oh, finally some good news. - When we got separated, I was able to finish the We made the cure, but it doesn't work. It's designed for an alpha. It could only cure one. - And these zombies have no alpha. - Making the cure useless. They genetically have a spot for an alpha and the cure gravitated - What exactly were you Did you create this water variant? - No, no, no. You see, we were researching how they create new alpha zombies. There's a small window when before the virus affects the mind. We were trying to use this to create the cure once and for all. - What do we do without a cure? (dramatic music) (water gun blasts) (machine clicks) (Rosco babbles) - Judah did not say that (Rosco babbles) - Judah. How's finding the cure going? - The containment field in the park isn't gonna hold much longer. - Oh boy. (zombie screams) - The custodians are supposed Can you get them to come help us? - We'll make it happen. - How's Micah? Is he okay? (Micah screams) - Yeah. No, he's doing great. Yeah, he's awesome. He's giving us a thumbs up. (water gun blasts) - We'll get you some help. - How are we gonna do that? Where are the custodians? - I don't know, but I (water gun blasts) - What's the plan? - The others should be Let's get to them. - Who is this guy? - An old friend of their mom's. He's the Lord of a raelo He'll know the custodians. (theatrical music) - It's good to see you. Where are the others? (water blasters blast) - Stay close. - Come on. Should I double call or - Don't double call. Way too desperate. (water gun blasts) - Quadrant four. Haven't talked with the but they should be okay with me coming by. There. (machine bangs) She really was a genius. (air whooshes) How? - Are these the custodians? - These aren't the custodians. Those are infected. (zombies grunting) Survived the great war and now... - No help is coming to - The custodians aren't coming. - What? And there's no cure. - The containment field - And then nothing will be able - What do we do? - We can't do nothing. That scientist said that this thing came from the maintenance section of the park. We go there and try and get to the bottom of - That's on the other side of the park. - It's our only chance. - We'll stop by a bathroom on the way. - Hold it. - Man, this place would be so cool if here weren't any zombies. - It's lost its main power. There's a backup generator nearby. - That generator will make a ton of noise. A lot of zombies will storm it. - I hope whatever's Miller. - Oh, it's Mighty Morphin' Miller time. - Never gonna catch on. - Do you think if we just (zombie screams) (Music intensifies) (zombies grunt) - We're getting there. (water splashes) (zombie gags) - Why was it yellow? Why was it warm? Why was it warm? (dramatic music) (water splashes) - I told you the goggles would work. (Miller thuds) (Miller grunts) - There. (door thuds) (dramatic music) They came from the original zombies. - What? - The water zombies. That sword came from an alpha. An alpha got its sword infecting the system with water zombies. That's why they don't have an alpha. - But why here? (air whooshing) - You were experimenting (tense music) It escaped and created water zombies. - Nothing we have could What's the plan? - I grab the sword and become the alpha. - What? - They genetically have a spot for one, if you become the alpha, you'd have full control over the zombies. - Shiloh, the zombie virus corrupts, you wouldn't be you. You don't even know that you from them once you became one. - It's the only chance we have. There's gonna be a lot of - So we get her there. These things don't have a leader. That's what makes them strong, but we can use it against them. They're not organized. They can't coordinate a plan. Each one of the zombies are Each one of us pulls away any we can find. (zombies groaning) (Elijah yells) - Hold them back. (Judah screams) (tense music) (Elijah screams) (tense music) (doorknob clicks) - No! (screams) That tickles! (tense music) (Shiloh exhales nervously) (water splashes) (sword whooshes) (triumphant music) (Shiloh's veins crackling) (water splashing) (Shiloh's veins cracking) (water splashing) - My goggles did it! (Shiloh's veins crackling) (dramatic music) - It only works on the alpha. (water blaster splashing) (Shiloh thuds) (Elijah breathes heavily) - Whoa, I had so many plans for how I was gonna take over the world. (triumphant music) (upbeat music) (energetic music) - I love the clean water. Woo! - A big thank you Soaky Mountain Waterpark for letting us film at their water park. If you wanna visit this the link is in the description below.