Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard, where we set those who lived to entertain us, by visiting Today we're exploring cemeteries around as Edith Piaf, Oscar Wilde, Jim Morrison, Join us, won't you? Paris is for lovers, or so the saying goes. Lovers of what is subjective, I suppose. For you and me, the proud taphophile, we love We stroll the dark avenues of the dead, while Welcome to Paris, my friends. After a wonderfully scenic couple of days and its storied capital city, to continue parts of Europe. The shadows of many greats loom large over to scientists, innovators, and political figures. We won't have time to visit all the major but we will hit as many key highlights as So, without further ado, let's hop the nearest Our tour of Paris begins today at one of the but in the world. The infamous Pere Lachaise cemetery. So prominent is this cemetery it has its own After the closure of cemeteries in central established on the outskirts of the city to Pere Lachaise was established by Napoleon open to anyone regardless of race or religion. This beautiful cemetery has become a popular of numerous film and television productions. Since starting Hollywood Graveyard years ago, cemeteries to visit. It did not disappoint. Our first stop here is in division 21, just Here we find a man who spoke volumes without mime, Marcel Marceau. Mime as the artform we know today developed Marcel Marceau would take up the mantle of his character, Bip the Clown, instantly recognizable shirt, and top hat. As a practitioner of pantomime, he was without he called the "art of silence." He used his talents to aid the French Resistance Performing silently as Bip, the mime kept as they escaped across the border from occupied Marceau was also close friends with Michael routine one of the inspirations for Jackson's And in a hilarious twist of irony, Marceau Silent Movie. "No." In 1978 he founded the International School the Marceau Foundation to promote mime in The world-famous mime went silent for the Just across the street west is one of the Reclining in bronze atop the tombstone is Gericault. With palette and paintbrush in hand, you probably of the pioneers of the Romantic movement of His tomb features a replica of his most famous 1819. It became an icon of French Romanticism. Gericault was just 32 when he died from various Heading due south, we find the Poet of the Romantic era, Frederic Chopin. He was known principally for writing for solo He was a musical child prodigy, born in Poland His innovations of harmony and melody would western music to this day. He performed all across Europe in the early Among his best-known works are his Nocturne Fantasie Impromptu, The Minute Waltz, and while standing here at his grave is his iconic You know the one. Chopin suffered from ill health much of his tuberculosis. He died at just 39, this death mask taken Chopin's own funeral march was played at His tombstone features the muse of music weeping You'll be curious to know that not all of He left his heart in Poland... literally. It was removed after his death and buried with his wishes. Just a few spaces away is another famous pianist, pianists of the 20th century. He was born with osteogenesis imperfecta, of his life in pain. This didn't stop him from becoming an accomplished being ordinary. He gave his first professional concert at the world, performing with some of the best greatest venues, like Carnegie Hall. He would also release dozens of albums in Michel Petrucciani was just 36 when he died Let's continue south to find another legendary We visited him in our Viewers Special, but without a visit to Jim Morrison, legendary Doors. The band formed in Venice California in 1965, of youth in that era. They shot to fame with their song, "Light Other hits include "Break on Through to "Riders on the Storm," and my favorite Doors song, "People are With his wild and unpredictable personality, would become one of the most influential frontmen In 1971 Morrison was living in Paris with On the morning of July 3 he was found dead His cause of death has been shrouded in mystery cause being listed as heart failure. Jim Morrison was just 27. Due to the overenthusiasm of fans, who have offerings, or steal things, like the bust where Jim Morrison rests is now partitioned The current marker features a Greek quote his own spirit." Let's turn our compass east now, to division Here rests Amadeo Modigliani. He was a painter and sculptor, active here He's known for his unique modern and surreal portraits with elongated and exaggerated features. His style wasn't particularly well received success. Only after his death did he find the renown of many an artist, it seems. He died from tuberculosis at just 35. Just across the street east is division 97. Here we find a woman who became the very voice Her singing style seemed to reflect the struggles She was born to a street performer father Edith was abandoned at birth, and raised by By her teens she reunited with her father living... on the streets, where she sometimes Soon though Edith would find herself singing And becoming much in demand, from cabarets She specialized in chanson and torch ballads, sorrow. But it was her cheerily optimistic song about made her an international star. "La Vie En Rose," for which Edith wrote the 1940s. [music] Another of her popular hits, "Non, je ne regrette rien," was introduced to a new Inception. [music] Alcohol abuse and a series of car accidents left her in poor health by her 40s. She died from an aneurysm due to liver failure It's said that 100,000 mourners lined the - the first time the traffic in Paris came A biopic was made about the life of Edith Moving up to division 44 now, we find the The Divine Sarah, as she was known, was the 19th century, starring in some of the great by Alexandre Dumas, and Ruy Blas by Victor Her popularity led to a number of international As one of the biggest stars of her era, Sarah notable painters and glamour photographers. She would also be among the very first prominent and to act in motion pictures. Her first film appearance was a scene from Sarah initially detested the medium of cinema, in 1912, quickly found her way in the movies, Throughout her life Sarah Bernhardt had a She kept a satin lined coffin in her bedroom, She also preferred the roles of characters In 1923 Sarah was filming the movie The Clairvoyant. Due to her failing health, she was too weak up as a film studio, complete with lights, She died in March before the completion of Sarah Bernhardt was 78. There is only one thing in life worse than talked about. That said, let's talk about the man who author, poet, playwright, and master of wit on to study in England. His literary talent was recognized early as plays. His work, combined with his flamboyant lifestyle, late Victorian era, his work often holding Victorian society. Among his best-known works are plays like short stories like The Canterville Ghost, Dorian Gray. All have been adapted on stage or screen many At the height of his career in 1895, in what celebrity trials, Oscar Wild was convicted acts. Homosexuality was illegal at the time. He was imprisoned for two years, and his career After his release he fled to France and wrote about his time in prison. His last years were spent impoverished and He died from meningitis in 1900 at just 46. His tomb has often been the unwitting canvas wanting to show their love, but were actually Someone even did away with the angel's, So, to prevent further vandalism and constant by plexiglass. Strolling through Pere Lachaise feels like along cobblestone streets lined with tiny the dead. Northwest, just across the street from the whose brand-new tombstone was being engraved He was a composer, known particularly for He was nominated for an Academy Award 13 times of '42, and the song "The Windmills of He was a key figure in French New Wave Cinema, Goddard, and Jacques Demy, including The Umbrellas He also wrote and performed jazz music, touring greats. He died from septicemia at the age of 86. Let's head over now to the crematorium and On the west side of the columbarium, up to Dance, Isadora Duncan. She was born in California, but by her early and performed dance, to great acclaim. Her style was inspired by more naturalistic rigidity of traditional ballet. She strove to connect emotions with movement. It was a novel approach to dance then, not as an early spark of the modern dance movement. Her schools of dance operated at one time Moscow. Her life was cut short suddenly while riding in 1927. She was wearing a long, flowing scarf around The scarf caught in the rear wheel, pulling Isadora Duncan was 50. Continuing around clockwise we reach the niche Perhaps not a name as well-known as Debussy of the best-known orchestral concert pieces In 1897 he wrote The Sorcerer's Apprentice, The theme of the playfully scherzo piece is know it today as the musical backdrop of Disney's Paul Dukas had several other works popular Apprentice. He died at the age of 69. On the southeast side, down to the main level, He was a painter, sculptor, and graphic artist was one of the pioneers of the Dada and Surrealist He was very experimental in his approach to a form of pencil rubbing, and grattage, scratching the use of collage. His surreal works were often inspired by dream He also appeared in a small handful of films, Ernst lived to be 84. To find our next star we must enter the lower Here rests Emile Cohl. He was an early pioneer of animation, sometimes Fascinated by the 1907 film, The Haunted Hotel, animation, Cohl studied the film frame by In 1908 Cohl made Fantasmagorie, considered the first filmmaker to then fully dedicated He would go on to create over 200 animated would steal the spotlight, like Winsor McCay He fell into obscurity and was financially Emile Cohl died from pneumonia at age 81. Back out to the grounds, we're in division Here lies Michel Delpech. He was a singer and songwriter, who rose to He had hits in the song "Wight is Wight," and "Pour un Flirt." A longtime smoker, Delpech was diagnosed with He died 3 years later at the age of 69. Just a few spaces away is 60s cinema and style She's remembered for her prominent role the muse of director Jean-Luc Goddard. She would appear in 8 of his films, including a Woman, which earned her critical acclaim. [music] The 1967 TV musical comedy Anna was written for her, and she had a hit a song from that In the 70s, Anna formed a production company Ensemble. She continued to perform, sing, and write 79. Continuing west to division 48, we find the He was a French novelist and playwright, one His magnum opus is the series of novels known Comedy, which paints an epic picture of French 100 novels and novellas. He continued to write at a furious pace until Still further west, nearly hidden between He was one of the great composers of the Romantic He's known particularly for his operas, and frequently performed operas in the world. It features those instantly recognized arias, and "Toreador Song." The opera was first performed in Paris in Reactions were mixed, and Bizet was convinced Bizet suffered ill health much of his adult of Carmen, never knowing the global phenomenon later. Other of his works that remain popular to for the play, L'Arlesienne. Georges Bizet was just 36 when he died. Over now to section 56, is another famous He was a painter, known as an innovator of are used to form a painting, rather than long His best-known work is A Sunday Afternoon a casual afternoon on the banks of the Seine It was a founding work of the neo-impressionist So popular was this painting, it became the Like so many of the gifted artists we've He was just 31. His cause of death remains uncertain, sometimes Our last stop here in Pere Lachaise brings our third famous Georges in a row, the creator His grave was partially hidden under a tarp, George Melies is considered by many as the He began his career on stage performing magic. The skills he learned as an illusionist would special effects on film. He began experimenting with film in the late effects like double exposure, time-lapse, This allowed audiences to experience things even in stage illusion, and took the budding He created hundreds of short films, most notable and A Trip to the Moon in 1902, which features By the 20s Melies' career had declined and prints tragically melted down for silver. He made ends meet working a small candy and The rediscovery of his work by the 30s led and assured his place in the annals of cinema He died from cancer at the age of 76, just film pioneer who we visited earlier, Emile Georges is buried here alongside his wife, appeared in close to 20 of her husband's Also notably, she played Joan of Arc's mother and she's credited with appearing in the 1897's After the Ball, the Bath... though a skin-colored partial body suit. Jeahnne died in 1956 at the age of 91. Leaving Pere Lachaise behind, we cross the Century marvel of architecture and art, one It was built between 1758 and 1790 at the It was originally intended to be a church onset of the French Revolution, it was decided for the remains of distinguished French citizens, In these historic halls are monuments to both Part of that secular history includes the In 1851, physicist Leon Foucault constructed dome. The original pendulum is in a museum, with Beneath the Pantheon is a crypt where many Those who rest here are deemed National Heroes Let's see who we can find here. Just in from the entrance on the left is Voltaire. Born Francois-Marie Arouet in 1694, Voltaire, writer and philosopher. His works cover nearly every medium of writing, etc. He was an early advocate for ideals that, quite progressive in his day, like basic civil and separation of church and state. Many of these ideals would spark the French Among his best-known writings are the fictitious novel Candide. Yet amidst all his writings, perhaps his greatest Voltaire enlarged the human spirit and taught He died in 1778 at the age of 83. Because of his criticism of the church, he He was initially buried in Champagne until in the Pantheon. Let's move deeper into the crypt. Inscriptions on the outer walls tell us who Fortunately for us the individual crypts were This is where Marie Curie is laid to rest. She was born in Poland and came to Paris to physics and chemistry. Marie Curie is remembered for her pioneering She worked with her husband, Pierre Curie, earned them the Nobel Prize in 1903, making the honor. Eight years later, in 1911, she won a second discovery of the elements polonium and radium, radioactive isotopes. This would make her the first person to win Under her direction the first studies into conducted, and during the WWI era, she helped field hospitals. In the years since Marie Curie has become and an inspiration to women everywhere. Marie Curie died in 1934 at the age of 66 The damaging effects of radiation were not absent protective measures, likely affected She was originally buried with Pierre in a But 60 years later, capping off the many firsts woman to be enshrined here in the Pantheon 1995. Marie is here with her husband, Pierre Curie, of science, including radioactivity. Before his innovative research in radioactivity piezoelectricity, through crystal oscillators, devices we use every day, like that cellphone Pierre and Marie married in 1895 and began they shared the Nobel Prize, the scientific But Pierre's life and work were cut tragically in 1906, he slipped and fell under a heavy He died instantly at the age of 46. Over to the other end of the crypt, we find First on the right is Emile Zola. He was one of the most prominent authors of He was known as a practitioner of naturalism of the first half the 19th century. His best-known work in this field is the 20-novel which follows the lives of fictional families Zola is also remembered for his role in The opening with "J'accuse!" Emile Zola died suddenly from carbon monoxide He was 62. At his funeral he was eulogized as not only and a champion of the persecuted. In 1937 he was portrayed by Paul Muni in the At the end of the room is Alexandre Dumas, known for his historical adventure stories. His best-known works are The Count of Monte as serials in the 1840s. Countless film and stage adaptations have stories alive for every new generation. Before his success as a novelist, Dumas was III and His Court considered one of the first stage. Alexandre Dumas lived to be 68, and was originally On the 200th anniversary of his birth his the Pantheon. Circling back, we find Victor Hugo, another and poets. Two stories that are inexorably connected Hugo: Les Miserables, and The Hunchback of Les Miserables, considered one of the greatest Jean Valjean, who becomes a force for good, It touches on the social ills being fought Perhaps the most notable adaptation of Les Paris in 1980. The 1985 English version is now the longest-running on film. Hugo's The Hunchback of Notre Dame has also a silent version starring Lon Chaney, to the The gothic novel made Notre-Dame de Paris from the ashes of a devastating fire in 2019. Victor Hugo was also a major political influence suffrage, free education for children, and Hugo went into exile after Napoleon III overthrew but returned a hero after the fall of the of the Republic. In 1885 Victor Hugo died from pneumonia at Millions joined the funeral procession from In the next room down, we find a man who gave Louis Braille. At the age of 3 young Louis was playing with stabbed himself in the eye with an awl. An infection from the injury spread, and eventually His blindness didn't stop him from excelling But Louis was frustrated by the systems used and he grew determined to devise his own system the blind and the seeing. He came across a tactile system of raised Impressed by the system he worked to improve His system was largely completed by 1824, Small revisions over the years led to the its creator, which consists of six raised But Braille's system wouldn't be adapted knowing the profound affect he would have Braille was just 43 when he died from tuberculosis. He was originally buried in his hometown of his death his remains were moved here to the However, in a symbolic gesture, his hands No self-respecting tombstone tourist could Catacombs of Paris... truly one of the most hunting, getting up close and personal with Down, down, down we go, deep under the city endless corridors carved into the rock, corridors with every step, reaching 90 feet below the "Halt! This is death's empire," aka my home turf. Fair warning, the catacombs are not for the The Catacombs of Paris are an ossuary that By the late 1700s, cemeteries in the city and safety concerns. The solution was to move the bones from all underground quarry, dating back to the 15th Little by little these former limestone quarries cemeteries of central Paris. Initially the bones were stacked haphazardly, decided to develop the area for a museum-like and neat patterns, creating bone walls and The catacombs were then opened to the public, curious thrill seeker ever since. Back up to the empire of the living, our next known as Les Invalides. It's dedicated particularly to the military Beneath the grand Dome, one just lofty enough we find the tomb Napoleon Bonaparte. He was one of the great military leaders during was commanding the French Army in battles Upon returning to Paris in 1799 he seized himself emperor in 1804. He would reign as emperor over much of Europe 1815, before his empire fell and he abdicated His legacy is a mixed one. He's recognized as one of the great commanders France after the wars, instituting higher founding the first central bank in France, that espoused equality before the law. But he was also a despot, whose megalomaniacal of Europeans. He forced his way into power, and used propaganda After a crushing defeat at the Battle of Waterloo island of Saint Helena, where he died in 1821 He was originally buried on Saint Helena, a desire to be buried on the banks of the In 1840 King Louis Phillip I obtained permission body to Paris. He was exhumed, his casket opened to ensure He was finally entombed in this red quartzite In 2021, on the bicentenary of his death, horse, Marengo, was hung from the cupola above, To reach our next Paris cemetery we pass by in the direction of the Trocadero. This is Cimetiere de Passy. It's the only cemetery in the world with Here we find the grave of Edouard Manet. He was another of Paris's renowned painters, to impressionism in the 19th century. He was a bridge between the rigidity of traditional new, unencumbered by rules. That something would become modern art. His paintings, like "Luncheon on the Grass," and controversy among the public when first beauties of real 19th century life. In the 1880s Manet began to suffer from serious In 1883 his left foot was amputated because and rheumatism. He died a short time later, at the age of Just south, not far from Manet, we find the She was an actress of the silent film era, She became an international star as the lead other serials of the era. At one time her popularity even rivalled that She became well-known for performing most Pearl retired from the screen in 1924 and Heavy drinking, sometimes to dull the pain to liver failure later in life. She died at just 49. Pearl was portrayed by Betty Hutton in the Let's head northwest to section 2. Here lies Hubert de Givenchy. You fashion buffs will recognize that name. The House of Givenchy, sometimes just Givenchy, by Hubert in 1952. He's famous for having designed wardrobe Hepburn, in Breakfast at Tiffany's, and He designed costumes for other films as well, and Funny Face, which earned him an Oscar These were all for the woman considered his Hubert de Givenchy died in his sleep in 2018 In the western end of the cemetery we squeeze France's storied composers, Claude Debussy. He was a founder of the Impressionist movement the norms of tonality of Western music to He was greatly inspired by the Symbolist movement, like clouds, the moon, and the sea, to paint Perhaps his most famous work is his piece listening to right now. It was first published in 1905. He's also known for orchestral work like and his opera, Pelleas and Melisande. Debussy died from cancer in 1918 at the age WWI was raging at the time, and Paris was there was no public funeral or ceremony for A small funeral procession made its way through the skies. He was temporarily buried at Pere Lachaise the trees and the birds," with his wife Our last Paris cemetery is a few miles north This is Cimetiere Levallois-Perret. We've honored many of the 20th century's one more for us to find. Here lies Maurice Ravel. Like Debussy he was associated with Impressionism One of his best-known frequently-performed commissioned as a ballet by Russian actress [music] And another timeless masterpiece penned by Ravel He also orchestrated Mussorgsky's Pictures [music] Ravel was among the first of the orchestral composers to recognize the potential of the to a wider audience. His final years saw gradual cognitive decline, unsure. Maurice Ravel died in 1937 at age 62. And finally, we end our Paris tour with the symbol of Paris. Here lies Gustave Eiffel, or Eiffel as we He was a civil engineer in 1800s Paris, who the railway network. In 1889 the World's Fair was being held A grand centerpiece was envisioned, to celebrate Engineers at Eiffel's company offered the 1887. Upon its completion two years later, The Eiffel the world. Initial reactions to the tower were mixed, so far as to protest its construction. It was only intended to stand for 20 years uses for the tower, its status as one of the world, will keep it standing forever. Not only did Eiffel build France's most too, designing the internal structure of the workshop before being dismantled and reassembled Gustave Eiffel lived to be 91, passing away And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite memories of Share them in the comments below, and be sure grave tours. Thanks for watching, we'll see you on the This was a curious discovery at Pere Lachaise. This mausoleum, which reads La Memoire Necropolitaine, lens. La Memoire Necropolitaine is a cultural association safeguarding the funerary heritage through For more, scan this QR Code to visit their