[mellow acoustic guitar] [Peter] We're gonna hit it all today, -[Elijah] We're gonna hit it all today. -I try to do my best. and I came up with you. -Let's do it, baby. Let's do it. [both laughing] [Elijah] Woo. This is ava, the herbal root Either ava or kava to help -There's kava in there? It's good, it's not gonna -Elijah, you're gonna take that cam. -The pure mona to get going with this. -Look at this, half a mil. -This stuff's legal, right? -Completely legal. No, no, half a mL. All the way down. -Dude, my kava experience was a disaster. -I promise this is gonna be good for you. Promise. -That's what the last guy said. Right, there, so all the way down. -All right, that's what I'm gonna do. -I'm going junior. -Oh, [Hawaiian]. And Hawaiian made -Brings me closer to the islands? -All right, let's do this. -Let's go. [bright Hawaiian music] [Elijah] The eight islands of Hawaii, I like to explain them as -Oh. -Eight siblings, a part of a family have spirit, the mana, But how it's expressed You know, like for me, I got three siblings, yeah? And so all of us have a combination but it's combined in different ways. We're all one ohana. -Okay, I have a less romantic way -Okay. -As a mainlander, I feel like Hawaii's every state, every island... -Mm-hmm. That's what it feels like -Is that a good metaphor? -Not as smooth and lovely as yours. -Hey, but it's accurate it's always easier for me to usually see or hey, her, she Kaneohe girl. -You know? -You can tell through their personality that helps to actually influence people's -[Peter] That elixir you gave me... -I feel something. -[Peter] It comes right out of the hills, right into the high-rises. -And it begins -Are you a fan of Honolulu? -I grew up in Honolulu, you know? I do think it's an eye sore and if in any way I do think it would have been good -Okay. -Because it ruins everything Of things with the ocean and the mountain. It just interrupts energy. It also makes sense economically but the space of our land is limited -Yeah. -In its current state I just hope it doesn't And so the people in to keep all of this high rise development -Okay, yeah. Well I guess there's some -Yeah, yeah, yeah. [Peter] So today we're gonna talk a lot -Yes. -Because a lot of Hawaiians Or do you mean the culture's going away? -It could be good to play a game today on how much Hawaiians can you spot out. -[laughs] -On how much Hawaiians you can spot out our people in our community in how much Hawaiians are in the process and as a matter of fact has a who live outside of Hawaii in comparison to the Kanaka Maoli -I met a lot in Las Vegas. -A lot of Hawaiians in Las Vegas, -That's an interesting connection, huh? -Yeah. -You wouldn't think -Being around all this greenery and water. It's an opportunity thing. I did hear, I'm not sure if it's about in the beginning a lot of the construction crews -Oh, okay. -To have Hawaiians and they just stayed. Okay, I asked you this one off-camera I've asked it all over the islands. I've been here for roughly three weeks. -Ethnically... -What is a Hawaiian? -Okay, so ethnically, okay... So being a Hawaiian is not an ethnicity. It's actually a nationality -Okay. -So in other words, a person -Yeah. and American being a nationality. And Italian or Portuguese, because of immigration. In the time of the Hawaiian kingdom were living in Hawaii had also been Hawaiian. Because Hawaiian Again, it's a nationality. So ethnically it's actually Kanaka Maoli And being Kanaka Maoli... -Like Maori of New Zealand? -Maori of New Zealand, yeah. -To put a pause break, this is... In this beautiful high school all my dad, and my uncle, -Wow, look at that tree. -Probably the most influential in current day is Bruno Mars, So being an aboriginal Hawaiian are able to link who you come from Which actually go back to around 850 AD. Had earlier inhabitants of Hawaii. Which were the new people who came out had been in Hawaii -Okay, so you need there are like a few -Yeah. -Full Blood, -Mix, yes, because of a lot of our people -Portuguese, Filipino, Japanese, Chinese? -Yes, all mix, yeah. Has plenty Asians here in Hawaii. So in the time of the Hawaiian Kingdom in the Hawaiian Kingdom had Even if you had originated All of the American to preach the Gospel had actually pledged an allegiance becoming a Hawaiian And so it is always integrated into all the ethics and value. So it doesn't have to do with skin color? -It doesn't have to do with skin color Because there are a lot of who are decultured. Who are in the practice and there are who are more involved and integrated into the practices of Hawaiian culture. -And so are you more worried about or the actual blood going? -Each of the people who are Kanaka Maoli having to leave Having to leave because it's almost to have an opportunity in owning a home as easy as it was -Much different. So I'd say that's everywhere but here might be an extreme example. -An average home in Hawaii today is in between $850,000 to about a million. -You know, around there. -For just a basic home, -Okay. -And $350,000 in Las Vegas -That's gone up, But still a starter home in Vegas, you're getting probably -A pool... Yeah, yeah, you know. -And no state income tax. That's huge actually. -Hawaii, you're heavily taxed, -So, okay-- Our income has not increased especially when 85% of our goods it's important to realize our people are in a cage. -And in a lot of the states but there are more options there than here obviously. Here it's like you're on an island, -Yes. -There's no Midwest that you can [Elijah laughs] You know, $300,000, -Our biggest issue and has is how to put Hawaiians on land. We don't need a home. Put them in land because he'll build a home with his family and he'll feed his family as well. And so it's always important it's an issue in the system. Our whole system is failing It's polarizing everybody, having a huge increase and a decrease in quality of life, and the ability to actually live just having one job. A majority of people in Hawaii A majority of people, yeah? So it is unless you're an innovator, you're an entrepreneur and who can take on burdens it's not easy, you know? Even teachers need an extra job -So teachers will be -That sort of thing? [Elijah] So this is all of Honolulu This is what Honolulu All of Waikiki, Le ahi. And so here, You know, you can put a picture up there, of how Honolulu used to look -So just like some taro fields -Abundance, about 150 years ago, guys, this is completely empty. All aspects of Honolulu in terms of -Yeah. -But a huge cause to that Once people started to see Hawaii a pearl of the Pacific, you know? For opportunists it's the reason why there was huge introduction into... It's a new style It puts our people into boxes but all based on a premise of basically for just enjoyment. For just enjoyment, you know? So everything for people see Hawaii as being a place when I heard a tita of mine in Maui say, &quot;How would it feel to have to work to actually uplift and bring while at the same time &quot;Because you know that this kind of stuff is making a big impact on Hawaii Okay, I'm not gonna push back 'cause -I totally understand what you're saying. Take any beautiful place right now, I lived in Lake Tahoe, California. Worked two jobs, -There's no way I was buying a home. -Not happening, right? And I moved down to Reno, Nevada and everyone was like, -&quot;You're moving to Reno, sucks for you.&quot; And they all came down -Yeah, yeah. Right? So I think there's this... The world, or let's just say started with not many people, you know? Multiplication over the decades. Even in our parent's generation, the boomers could go to these places and they weren't crowded, they were found but it wasn't like the And now it's turning more into The beautiful places aren't being created, But more people are flocking to 'em. So this pressure cooker is being created. Also doesn't help you know, people from mainland China -Right? So you have the world, but the world competing for this land. Who doesn't want to If they're a Latin American -Yeah, yeah. -And they feel the United States or that real estate is. They're gonna park it, So this Hawaiian version -Yes. -So that's what today is and I don't have a solution -Yeah... No... Hey, brother, I totally agree. You know, a key thing to when speaking about things in ...if there's no Hawaiians. And like speaking about all species not only speaking about us as Kanaka. We're talking about all of our species. Because this had made a huge impact in the extinction of Um, here in Hawaii it's considered to be the highest percentage [Peter] What's it in 150 years? Sorry to put you in that mood but... -I personally feel that a lot of things are shifting now. So I am thankful that Our people are getting and are beginning to see that this sh*t... It poisons our waters, This stuff. It's not that it's bad. I'm not But if you look at almost all because it's just building Our ecosystem now So if we see this as a healthy environment Our parents, because of economically, a lack of insight and foresight if you keep on developing puts us in But I think that us, as Hawaiians, and our generation, is now picking up on the fact that how are to bring it more harmoniously 'Cause if we continue this Hawaii is gonna be almost erased. In Honolulu in its own right It's at a point of no return. I say. But if we can see and innovate and can speak to our kupuna to make positive change All we gotta do is as we're doing that is to also hold steadfast in the areas is continuously happening I do also see there is huge opportunity because of the preexisting ideologies Everybody feels inspired about Hawaii. They hear something about Hawaii, &quot;Wow, Hawaii.&quot; It's interesting, -Yeah. It brings healing, it brings mana, The thing is though, this is to reclaim our approach and storyline and how to inspire people around the world in a proving way that is more ethical Helps our culture and everything, and to contribute in a positive way and than what people are having now 'Cause people are not even having that is truthfully rooted to what is Hawaii now So if we as Hawaiians as people who have always been -Our people are beautifully welcoming. -That's how we've always been. If we can utilize that, and position our current tools of AI, push it out there, position ourselves that that is based on how to heal [prays in Hawaiian] [blows horn] [Hawaiian] [Elijah speaking Pidgin] [laughs] [Elijah] Good to see you, brethren, Good to see you. You working? -Yeah, I work this company. We take people biking down from the top. -Hey bro, I'm gonna have to text you -Yeah? -Dude, it's the best job I ever had. -Aloha. [Elijah laughs] -Still in the game of guess the Hawaiian that you challenged me earlier. -He's not. He's an Irishman. -But he could be? -He could be. So the cool thing because each Hawaiian and a distinct energy. -You can just tell. So an uncle of mine, yeah? I love my uncle Alika. He played a huge role in my life. He's a 6'3'' three and three quarter Who is white as snow. But has the most Hawaiian features Hands big, strong, so much Aloha. Plenty mana. He holds himself as an ali'i, as a chief. -Fluent in Pidgin? -Fluent in pidgin, yeah. He's still in the process but has people in his generation on how to speak Hawaiian language. -It's a beautiful language. -The O's, the H's the K's, the EE's. [Elijah] And the interesting thing which for me, hey, I'm not an expert, the beautiful thing on speaking Hawaiian is actually the imprint of a consciousness Because a huge majority A lot of aspects in English language, and the words and terminology -It's black and white. It is, yeah. -There are a lot of words, -It's Roman, you know? Real kind of influenced through-- -Get to the point. -Love and like, not much in between. Which has an impact how you see the world. In Aloha Hawaii it actually accesses you and world view that you cannot really get You cannot really get it. [bright Hawaiian music] [Elijah] I'm taking you It's the beginning of Waikiki. -The famous Waikiki? Which, you know, everybody has -I've never seen it. -I spent a lot of time in Waikiki. Even though there's all the bullsh*t high class Louis Vuitton, Coach. But in terms of the aesthetic and beauty I think it's one of of a tourist destination or place. -Okay, so it is really nice? -Oh, I think Waikiki is beautiful, bra. -I spent a lot of time in Waikiki and the interesting thing about is you get to see people 'Cause everyone is coming to Hawaii and it's on the beach. So has the beach boys who how to make coconut hats, yeah. Just having a chance to interact to just be in Hawaii. -Oh, yeah. -But it's also a tourist trap because But everything has it's place. [laughs] Everything has its place so you know... -You struggle with it maybe a little bit? -Okay, everyone has and everyone hates Waikiki -Yeah. -All right. -Because all the big All the good times in and spending a weekend -Your first kiss? -First... [laughs] The first kiss had been in a stairwell. -Holding hands [Elijah laughs] -Or Japan, or wherever. Yeah, no, but hey, from India, from Iran, from England, [Elijah] This is Waikiki, everybody. So to the left is Kuhio Avenue, Is inspirational and based off of So his statue is right there, yeah? So King Kamehameha had been in the time of the Hawaiian Kingdom. He's the first head of state He had introduced electricity. -So right before the queen, it was him, -Yes, so he's her older brother. -Okay, so this is the famous Waikiki? The main drag isn't on the beach. -I thought it was gonna be-- -Okay. -But here, all the shops, -I gotta say it looks pretty good, -It looks well taken care of. -Good people watching. Has a lot of entertainment at night Has hula shows and luaus Good Hawaiian music Yeah, but in terms of the architecture of the experience in Waikiki, it's really, really commercial. -Okay, in this highly taxed state-- -Highly taxed. Aren't you happy to see these businesses and then that going into the system here? -Well it's not really impacting us as the individual people, Ideally it would be good had its own tax for the ecosystem, -I've been paying mega taxes on these Like there's some Hawaii fee or something. -Yep, yep, yep. [sighs] Is there an endless pit? -I would ask the politicians -Okay, so how do you feel about How is Hawaii managed as a state? -In current state I would say but it is still about a C minus. -C minus, lot of corruption? A lot of agenda, -Okay. -A lot of influence on in a way that is not really appropriated for everybody in the community. -What's an example? -There's just a lot of push and pull between people in the -Okay. -But 85% of the house -85%. Huge imbalance. -So they control everything? -Like California? And a majority of them, it's an important thing because the Asian influence -But aren't they -Yes, but in terms of politics, with the bills being passed 'Cause these aren't Asians who have These are Asians who's parents since the space and -So it's a younger generational thing? -It's an older generational thing though You know, and so-- -Oh right, because the Democratic Party Like if you wanted a force against the big businesses-- -But that switched. -But back a while ago if you wanted to be And you wanted some protection or -You were voting Dems? Now Dems aren't helping out -Yeah, and interestingly enough, especially in the space and time the Republican Territory of Hawaii, the actual person who is considered who had involved himself and in the house of representatives And Price Kuhio had been the prince He was a Republican. -Right. -And so his approach, he felt like it's principles, and cultures, and values, had been the closest to And so in current day who are in congress and in who consider kind of each of them the Prince Kuhio Republicans. Trying their best His political approach and to help Hawaiians. Because everything in the government -Who is it helping? Uh, it seems like [Peter laughs] -It seems like -You know what's interesting on Moloai? -Yeah. -They... Maybe it's the countryside... mentality. It's a lot of hunting, a lot of just, -Yeah, yeah, yeah. -Which kind of introduces about our political issue and how our people have always been -Oh, they have? Our people have always up until it wasn't encouraged especially in the time of statehood where all important issues of Hawaiian they kinda pushed to the side A lot of our people had lost a little bit but in our day now a lot of our people are getting -That's cool because a lot of people you know, a few weeks ago someone said, &quot;I don't watch the news anymore. and I gave up.&quot; and a lot of people are saying, You know, &quot;I want to live away -Be free, right? -I like that in many ways is you become complacent and whoever's -We can walk over here if you want. So today's video is like this... -We're sort of touching on the surface. But if someone wanted to take this video and go into each one -You can go deep. -There is so much to this place. Like we can't pack it in an hour video -It's hard to encapsulate everything. -Just the history here is insane. -Yeah, hard to encapsulate. -I didn't know much I knew the basics -Even as a Kanaka It's not the easiest on key parts and culture that everybody needs to know. -Yeah. it takes a lifetime, only one craft. It can take a lifetime. [Elijah speaking Hawaiian] [Hawaiian] [Elijah] How you doin' brotha? How you doin'? What's your name, bra? -DJ Mahalo, I follow you. -Oh hey, bra, what's up DJ Mahalo? Hey bra, he's brotha Peter, bra. -Nice to meet you. [Elijah] Hello bruddas, Aloha, aloha, come boys. Come! Come! Over here, bra. Have a little bit of a prayer On each time you hear halu, and each of these is all an expression aloha 'aina, aloha akuha, aloha kanaka. I'll do a little bit of an [Hawaiian] and we can go about our day, -Yes, sir. [Elijah inhales deeply] [exhales] [prays in Hawaiian] [deep breathing] [prayer and breathing continues] [praying in Hawaiian] [praying continues] We just mahalo for this beautiful day, For all the ohana and we mahalo you for adding protection and their ohana, in this unreal time of human existence. We thank you [Hawaiian], for breathing peace, and an abundance of love who come across them here in we preay blessings upon them In the beautiful name of Hawaii, [all chanting] [blows horn] Oh, Waikiki. [Peter] Usually tourist sites. That's sort of talked about You go to them, I gotta say this is -Oh, it's so beautiful, brother. -I'm like I'll never go to Oahu and now being here, -But it's a good spot, right? -Yeah bra, and interestingly enough, it's the space where all of our chiefs So of all the spots in Oahu our chiefs chose Waikiki. Why? For the same reason all the business men had chose to plant all It just has a mana. It's like special. Has healing energy. Each of the waters of Waikiki and hand in hand in that, previous to Huge abundance in food production. Instead of calling a bread basket, It could produce ample amount of food [Elijah] About a hundred years ago a couple men here in this area His name was Henry J. Kaiser He wasn't really interested in how to he built and changed and developed all this area and he changed the name to Hawaii Kai because it put his name inside it. Of Kaiser. He named... You know, he changed the place name. -Wow. You know, a kind of egoic guy, yeah? But he was a kind of innovator -So he developed all this? -What year roughly? -The '30s. -I believe in the '30s. You would consider him to be kind of He didn't have good intentions. -He was here to bank and go? And if I'm not mistaken, -Oh, interesting. -Kaiser Permanente? He has a high school over here So he kind of puffed himself up he displaced a lot of Hawaiians who were living Special burial grounds of our people, and so like here Which is a big hike So please be safe, -Much dryer over here? -Yeah, yeah, yeah. But it has... Here's the thing. It hasn't always been like that. It's also because of Here to the right is Hanauma Bay. And so here is what is considered -Oh, this is beautiful. -Look at this. [Peter] Look at that beach, that's nice. I don't know why but I didn't think -Oh, but so special, bra. -So Elijah, I don't think there'll ever be where people don't want [Elijah laughs] I know. -I totally understand. Unless our... -I spent all my life here and so even though these places are beautiful, Because we had experienced this it seems like there's and kind of get an understanding and how much we love home. It makes sense on how a lot of people have this massive inspiration to It makes sense but at what cost who has the home culture here, have been here -So you're worried about that going away? Or being diluted more where -Yeah, um... I think it's extremely hard to erase it. It's been attempted -Yeah. -Almost impossible because -One way or the other, we fight... ...to keep who we are alive. -Yeah? And so in current time because everything in culture it's so inspiring and because of the information to get information But it kind of errs on another side now in a way that is non-authentic are caught in the rat race and aren't really able or area of influence the influence of culture on outsiders. Right? And so it's a part of the reason is a crucial component -I want to explain that first. Elijah has an amazing website. Courses, speaking engagements, and understand this principle -Yes, the principle of aloha So in the '80s I had a kumu, Her name was Auntie Pela Hepake. She stated that in it's process and search for world peace and that key is aloha. On how to live in a way of honor, respect. How to love unconditionally for a place, people, So in our practices in Awakened Aloha we teach people how to live aloha 'aina, aloha akuha, aloha kanaka, how to connect to place, to spirit, That's how I found you. I saw you on a podcast I'm like, &quot;This guy's pretty passionate Guys, that link is down below -Yeah. -Definitely check out after the video. 'Cause look, I can respect... I'm not from here. I can admire. I can take in some things. It's not my place but... Oh, what's this? -So here is the Homesteads at Waimanalo. The highest population of homelessness or houselessness because the people are not homeless. Our people are just houseless But Hawaiian Homesteads Commissions Act exactly about 100 years ago. Through Prince Kuhio and his intention because in that time all the way into Spanish American War, how all the militaries and they militarized Hawaii Had the introduction of and then it went into this evolution It was unreal on how the people of Hawaii had been experiencing Our pieces of land, of ag land, had been in the process And so Prince Kuhio, he used the concept of have a concept of a reservation. He used that to build this construct -And homesteads, you have to have -Well to be on the list -Half Hawaiian and they give you the land Like for 99 years? -So here's what the trick is... Yes, yes. So he advocated to give Hawaiians land was for every Hawaiian 1/32, why? He had the foresight to see are gonna be interbreeding. The percentages of Hawaiian blood So what he was advocating for originally, He tried to push for a 32nd, a quarter but it came to pass that each person has to be at a minimum of 50% Hawaiian but how much 50% Hawaiians There's an estimation of who are half Kanaka Maoli. Okay? But here's the tricky part. He had advocated Why? You put kanaka on land, Just give them a piece of aina. Just give them an acre, two, three acres. Our people with the spirit and abilities is gonna build anything we want. In current day, how people in is not giving land to Hawaiians So even though on the land each Hawaiian on basically a hundred year lease, there is a house in these Hawaiian homestead communities who has a mortgage of $800,000. [bright Hawaiian music] [Peter] Nice neighborhood. [Elijah] I'll introduce you guys He's a pioneer in food sovereignty, how to grow as best as he can. Been doing the good work, -He's got a farm back here? [Elijah] What's up, homie? Hey, bra. [kisses] -Hey bra, here's Brother Peter. -Nice to meet you. -Here's Uncle Daniel. What is it, Uncle or Daniel? -Whichever one, you know? [Peter] What is this, Daniel? -That looks very cool. -That's beautiful. [Elijah] Beautiful, bro. Woo. Although I have to make I will never ever make a real one. [Elijah laughs] -A real one is one where that your grandparents... the afterbirth So this practice is at minimum, that requires a grandparent And so we make these boards that type of connection. Imagine like the main food is made from a tree that your great-grandparents That tree grew of which grew to this place where and then that board, that would all come from this tree would be what would sustain you throughout your life -That's cool. [Daniel] Nine years ago From here all the way down. You couldn't drive down. -Jungle? Actually these poles that was literally the size and they had done the shade cloth they had chemical... where nothing would grow. And so we started a whole process So I've never sprayed one drop of Roundup Commercial fertilizer, None of that has happened here. This guy's been trimmed once in its third season of avocados. On a place that has [Elijah laughs] [Daniel] So part of what we do is around fixing the soils with the pigs So if you notice, [sniffs] how's the odor? -You ever been around a pig farm? Can't even tell you live on a pig farm. We have this specialty variety of pig and basically these guys So if you imagine all the weeds and the pigs are our primary and make it nutrient rich. What I used to do is I used to move now what I'm doing is I'm just building then I have a new organic component -So Daniel, how much land -This is about just under three acres. And-- -Is it homestead or your own? This is stolen land With the illegitimate, but the reality is that what you see here, Everyone's like, &quot;I'm gonna fix the soil! How many guys get 'em? F*cking not too many. -They're not doing it? -It's just it's not that easy, bra. Look at this. You see this? This is from what was dead soil. Yeah? All my food needs, basically right here. This is more food than can feed my family. This is where people come and... Now this area's about to be replanted and they harvest their own vegetables -That's great. Like they were at the supermarket but are able to engage the food So these guys, and this is about to go but what we practice Yeah? We look and figure out how to So the pigs are just one. I'mma take you over to our emu 'cause -So Daniel, your whole purpose here is just to bring good nutrient food, -The purpose here that helps to retrain our community how to grow what they -On Oahu, very rare to find. And don't laugh this is an iholena lele. This is a dwarf iholena. So this is like a actual Hawaiian banana. Tell me the last time -Yeah, orange color. -Mmm. A little starchy. A lot of Hawaiian bananas-- -Low on the sugar, right? This is like a cooking banana. -You cook this one up-- Let me tell you, -Ho! -Mmm, mmm. This is actually the first time and the most important thing is I wanted Yeah? 'Cause they're a and vibrations from the birds Our bees, everything more happy [Peter] Oh, look at the little piglets. -Actually what our programming does is we... We help other families to create soil in the residential areas. -Yeah, no smell. Look at my fruits, When's the last time -Eat soursop before? Soft, right off the tree. There we go sir. -Just peel it back? -Oh, yeah. It's sort of like jackfruit a little bit. -Mmm. Basically we started our own and we took and we bottled it and literally changing the mindset for our agriculture needs -In house? That's primarily how we survive, and are working to create Yeah? One that isn't That's essentially -Are young people getting into this? -Honestly we're kind of the reason why. We were the young guys. For the first time in like a hundred years in this particular practice of poi making. In fact for a hundred years and in 2009 after I decided to the department of health and told me that it was even if I gave it to my grandmother because they regulate the sales And so from 2009 through 2011 I seriously had an illegal black market underground traditional food system -So they don't have but what did they have a problem with? -Well so poi... Poi traditionally-- -Which... Explain what poi is. -So it's basically astronaut food Right? If you have to cross in a canoe this is pretty much the only food that will guarantee that you will Because you got no refrigeration, -What's it made out of? -The taro is a starch. There's about 85 countries Originally starting in Egypt and actually went with because the root stock of it is seedless. So you actually take and that's what you transplant. And so that stock can handle As with a seed, So the plants that went were ones that could withstand The Hawaiians figured out a recipe that basically allowed for them because they had the capacity -Okay, so poi is sort of like Do you know what they've dealt with The regulation like they're not allowed because it's not pasteurized correctly, -Here's the thing, that was traced to the poi. So there was a prohibition But it was found that it was farmers to mix the poi is why people got sick. What we were able to do in and we changed the law. I believe in liberty and justice, yeah? And I believe that the future of Hawaii that also understand but also are willing to execute it You know, timing is everything and I believe that the future independence or however we choose on a nation to nation status Yeah? And it's when we can and two, the American people and three, they're willing to act upon their understanding 'Cause-- -Okay, I hate to be the realist here. -Check it out. Most people, a lot of people right now They're trying... It's expensive here for sure. But a lot of other parts of the country, -Americans don't realize-- -But even to take care of is a challenge for many right now. -Hawaii is the single most -Yeah, yeah. -Do you know how much money if America stopped... I mean seriously. If you really look dollar for dollar You think the million people for all of the federal everything Zero! We're a huge drain. This is where I'm telling you &quot;Sh*t, I got more money that they're asking for.&quot; So I think we should all play and we should be wise about how the truth is that today, Yeah? And I didn't know about Yeah? There's other Hawaiians that it was the level of Native Hawaiians in becoming the absolute experts... Previously there would be Those days are over the more expensive it is the bigger the reality -Pua. Pua, you shoulda done the farm tour, bra. This guy's farm tour You're a good guide? Show him your coolest -Okay. [laughter] I'm gonna show you guys my favorite spot Me and them will just dash up and go up here. -Okay. Let's do it, let's see the dash. -You dash, like run? [panting and giggling] [Peter] Oh, we're going way up. -Yeah, way up. [panting and giggling continues] Here, I'll give you the camera. -Mm-hmm. It's pretty amazing to us that we can... that I can just go wherever I want. These guava trees, they're kinda ripe but I really want to It's really nice up here. Like literally. You can see everything. [Elijah] Awesome, bra. Even you. [Elijah] Hey. -[Elijah] I think he's chasing it. [Peter] Elijah, brother, thank you. -That was awesome. -Thank you, mahalo, mahalo. -So there's was a lot in today. I learned a lot. There's a lot -Yes. -I think for the viewer, we touched on many big topics. People are interested. -Absolutely, I always encourage people to just head to my -Yeah. -Pretty soon I'm gonna be with the beautiful help of this brutha. -So guys, check out Elijah's website. -Instagram, YouTube. -Yeah. And it's only building up. I'm gonna be introducing... This each three months, a retreat in Hawaii -Oh, cool so people can come here. Get deeper on these topics? -Extremely deep, experience Hawaii in and then we take the world -Respect. -It's awesome what you're doing. -Thanks guys, until the next one. [bright Hawaiian music]