There comes a time where you have to appreciate willing to leave and go back to the place You know how I said this was like a lifeline? You've convinced yourself you can never have You've convinced yourself you can never be &quot;God wants you to be holy, not happy.&quot; That's in the first version of you. That's not a Bible verse. That's the book of your dumb cousin's opinion. Have you ever read that? Now, in case this seems like a stretch to a little bit more about her story. She wasn't really looking to get something to God. You can go watch the sermon online. I preached it to Holly. It was called Just the Two of Us. I preached it in the whole empty room. It was just her on the front row and a few It was just the two of us. I used it to talk about this woman and her It was the most awkward sermon I ever preached, It's a very big room. This woman was determined to use what she When I say &quot;Timing your testimony&quot; and I use and all of this, what I really mean is trusting why he's calling you to do it. It's really easy to say after the fact that but the trick of it is she made a room for what God was going to do through her act of Isn't that the hardest thing? Like the author said, to believe in advance That's the hardest thing in the world. To let down the nets for the catch before where they are. That's the hard part. After she did that, the prophet said, &quot;You've Now what can we do for you?&quot; She had something in her heart she wanted heart you want God to do...a freedom you want develop, a greater state of meaning than just She had it in her heart, but she had learned When the prophet asked, &quot;What can I do for the woman said, &quot;I have a home among my own Because she did then. What she didn't have was a son. The Bible tells us her husband was old. I told you. God has terrible timing. He waits until this man is shriveled up. Can I say it like that? He brought her what she had stopped asking It was so painful for her to consider the said, &quot;Stop messing with me. Do not mislead your servant, man of God,&quot; She pushed away the possibility of something That's what you've been doing to everything you and restore you. She is pushing away the very thing that came for. She is pushing away the promise God has sent The prophet looked at her and said, &quot;About your arms,&quot; and she did. There is no record that she believed it. There is no record that she had faith for There is no record that she all of a sudden a Beth Moore Bible study on pillars of faith. There is no record of that, but she held a One day, unexpected to her, that son died So let's recap. &quot;I didn't ask you for a son. You gave him to me anyway, and then you let She brings the boy and puts him on the bed She went to IKEA and picked this bed out herself, She said, &quot;I'm going to put this back on the would give it to me.&quot; And Elisha restored the boy to life. That boy is the boy who's standing in the 2 Kings 8, the boy she didn't ask God to give the boy to her and came back to life. What got me about this text was realizing was the thing that stood beside her in the You have to imagine it. Gehazi is the servant of Elisha. The king calls Gehazi and says, &quot;Tell me some Gehazi has many. &quot;Well, there was one time... One time he took his cloak and struck the The people were waiting to see 'Is he really Then one time there was this spring in the put some salt in the water and purified it, again, and you can drink from it.' Well, one time there were these boys who called of the woods to maul them, but let's skip You know, you tell selective stories. &quot;One time there was this confederation of Elisha came out to them and said, 'I don't the wicked gods of your ancestors. If I didn't have respect for Jehoshaphat, me a minstrel.' And the minstrel started playing, and Elisha He told them, 'Dig your own ditches and prepare And the rain came from a direction that it It didn't come from the sky like normal rain It came from somewhere else. It's just the way Elisha was. You can picture Gehazi. He's getting fired up telling these stories. He's remembering. He's rehearsing the things God did in a previous &quot;One time we went to this widow's house, and She thought she had no oil, but Elisha told nothing again, because what you call nothing So, he's telling the stories. There's one he skipped with Naaman. Naaman was a leper who came to be healed, by dipping seven times in the Jordan, which is a little dirty body of water and Naaman He could have bathed in the waters of Abana to the prophet and dip in the Jordan seven young boy. He was so excited about his miracle he tried &quot;I don't want your gifts. I didn't do it for that.&quot; Gehazi chased down Naaman and said, &quot;Hey, have, I'll take it back to him,&quot; and he kept Elisha, the man of God, knew about it, and So what's he doing in the court of the king? A leper can't be in the court of the king. It looks like the little boy isn't the only I have to put this in, because if I don't, and you do what God told you to do you can Gehazi is standing in the presence of the it, even if it was your fault, even if it one who let go, even if it was your irresponsibility, the blood of Jesus and say, &quot;I want it back! In the name of Jesus, I want back everything took from me!&quot; So, he's telling the king the stories, and &quot;She built us a room and put a bed in it. She didn't have a son, and Elisha said, 'You're She was like, 'I don't even want a son. I've given up on it.' And Elisha prophesied the son, and she shows Then the kid dies. He's in the field, and he starts screaming Then they put him on the bed. I was going to go try to heal him with my for me.' And he came in, and I don't know what he did the boy in there, but they both came out.&quot; As he is talking, the woman walks into the Do you understand the statistical improbability There are so many stories to be told about I didn't even give you half of them. God knew the exact moment Gehazi would be I don't know if she hit traffic on the way green light so she got there right on time, You can trust his timing. You can give him the mic. You can let him speak what he wants to speak it will come to pass. I've seen it in my own life. God knows exactly what, who, where, when. Oh, this is the best Scripture. Do y'all want the best Scripture in the Bible? Here's the best Scripture in the Bible: Psalm This is the best Scripture today. I'll have a different one tomorrow, but this life right now. God will give you a certain word at a certain Here's what he gave me. Psalm 119:125: &quot;I am thy servant; give me Here's the part that hit me. Before I read it, who is this for? &quot;It is time for thee, Lord, to work...&quot; Not for me...for thee. I want you to come into the presence of the Not the king of Israel. I want you to come into the presence of the The Lord told me to tell you it's time for You've done everything you can do about it. You have manipulated it so much you've messed There comes a time where Holly tells us, &quot;Get You are not helping.&quot; I heard the Lord saying to somebody, &quot;Get &quot;It is time for thee, Lord, to work: for they &quot;It is time for thee to do something about This woman left a homeowner, and while she took her home. Go back to 2 Kings, chapter 8. This is so anointed I can barely get it out There's so much jumping up in my spirit while is a lifeline for somebody. &quot;It is time for thee, O Lord, to work.&quot; She comes into the presence of the king to At the exact moment she walks in, Gehazi was Does God not have the craziest timing? Gehazi said, &quot;That's that woman, the one who the room, the one who gave us a place to stay. That's her, the one whose son Elisha restored You have to drag what God did in your past today what God did for you yesterday. That's what you have to do. &quot;It is time for you to work, Lord. Just like you gave me this back, I need that Just like you restored this that I thought God did that for me. There are some things that I know that I don't You don't have to agree with it. God did that for me. Nobody else. It wasn't a human. God might have used somebody, but only God The God who did this, I need him to do that. Verse 6 says something very interesting. This is the last verse I want to give you. &quot;The king asked the woman about it, and she Then...&quot; Read it again. She told him what God had done for her, and So, she only got back what she needed when Do you follow the sequence? She could have told herself any story. &quot;Life isn't fair. This isn't right. I tried to obey God, and now look at me.&quot; But she told the story of what God had done. So, God wants to know, &quot;Why have you stopped Not to others...to yourself. Why have you stopped telling the story of story of fear of what might happen next?&quot; While you are telling yourself these hypothetical stories of what did happen, you are standing talking miracle, a product of nothing but That's why April Carter told me... She said, &quot;God did this for me.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, why didn't he do that?&quot; She said, &quot;In all fairness, it's not your See, she never stopped telling herself the You stop telling yourself the story of God's the story of fear. She told him what God had done, and then... I'm telling you, that one word... Let me give you another word: yet. &quot;I don't have it yet. I haven't found a way to get set free from I don't see how it's going to work out yet.&quot; Timing your testimony. Don't tell it too early, because you don't The timing of God is so amazing. Every time you tell yourself a story about the presence of what you need him to do now... He said, &quot;Give her back what belongs to her.&quot; Say it out loud. &quot;Peace belongs to me. I am a child of God. Joy belongs to me. I am a child of God. Freedom is my inheritance. I am a child of God. I belong because I believe. I am a child of God.&quot; Tell yourself that story. Preach the gospel to yourself. If Gehazi can rehearse the great things God can't you? Can you trust God's timing enough to give Though the vision tarry, wait for it, for It's taking me awhile to understand God's him, whether that's the fourth watch of the I have lost something I love. God gives you these little gifts. What are yours? Have you told anybody that part of your story you have stopped rehearsing your past victories?