This video is sponsored by &quot;War Thunder&quot;. An aircraft carrier is a busy and dangerous airport... It can launch fully loaded fighter jets but it can also cut you in half in good at playing extreme jump rope. But why the E2 Hawkeye is the at the start of each cycle? Why naval aircraft wings were designed to why the Navy removed the and why some maritime aircraft their engines mid flight... is not what you think! On the surface, naval aircraft look quite similar operated by the Air Force. But because of the huge amounts of catapult launches and on their landing the Navy has to order special These carrier capable variants not but they also typically have longer wings The wings are longer to generate shorter 300ft on an aircraft carrier And because there is only so much those longer wings need to be foldable The E2 Hawkeye is simply But why put a radar up there when are equipped with state of the art The answer is simple, but you're going to have a hard time The average person standing at sea level less than three miles away due But if you put that person assuming the air is completely clear, The same goes for radars. When the E2 flies at 30,000ft, its radars can see threats This radar data is then transmitted to Detecting the threats at long time for the commanders, and those extra few seconds is what decision and respond effectively In fact, the entire business of early one step ahead of the other guy. And the E2 Hawkeye provides this high altitude targets like airplanes, ships and missiles that fall of over 3 million cubic miles this is why they call the Now, you might be thinking that the main first from the flight deck is so that before the rest of the friendly But that's not the reason. The E2 is a big, and airplane handlers don't close to its menacing propellers. The truth is that it's a pain in around the flight deck, so handlers just want to get it airborne But there is one more reason. When the main engines of it's the auxiliary power unit, that provides electrical power But the E2 doesn't have an APU... So in its absence, the Hawkeye has to be plugged air conditioning and other the engines are powered up. And this can be only done in a This is the other reason why the catapulted and the last one recovered. Speaking of Recovery, even the E2 has had some close calls Thankfully, the swift reaction of the pilot and E2 prevented a for sure disaster and turned it into a moment of flight deck of USS Eisenhower. By the way, it is possible to remove a making the hawkeye topless. And since the dome is installed on it is possible to fly the But the biggest threat to an aircraft It comes from below. And if you want to sea and land combat yourself, &quot;War Thunder&quot; is the most comprehensive has one of the most sophisticated Every vehicle is intricately modeled anything from engines and fuel So different types of armor, shells and missiles behave And thanks to the X ray view, you see exactly what's So you can adjust your Whether it's ships, or tanks, this game offers an immersive and authentic sound effects. So, just like the other 70 you can enjoy epic PvP battles on PC, And cherry on top, if you're new to this game or a played in at least six months, for a limited time, you'll receive a massive bonus package the exclusive vehicle decorator, and seven days of premium account. So click the link below and A lethal hit from a torpedo launched from Torpedoes can be especially effective because, as opposed to other threats a submarine could sneak up to the carrier, which reduces the reaction And this is where the MH60 Seahawk But how can a helicopter in the sky You see these tubes being They're called sonobuoys and they Sonobuoys can be automatically launched and then dropped into the water. Each sonobuoy is equipped with detect underwater sounds... Some sonobuoys are quite sophisticated their receiver and transmitter antennas. Aside from the MH60 helicopters there's also another airplane in search of submarines, the P8 Poseidon. The P8 doesn't operate from a carrier, but is like an office in the air and has This aircraft is also capable to detect submarines... and upon detecting a threat, the P3 Orion, the P8 can also launch torpedoes to neutralize a threat. Interestingly, the P3 Orion would quite often patrol to conserve fuel during long range But let's talk about the primary airport was built for. People still love talking about but this has always been secondary. The primary mission of naval aviation On American aircraft carriers, this is currently accomplished with the Super Hornet and the F35C Lightning II, but how do these two fighter jets compare? With a combat range of 770 miles, the F35C has almost doubled the This is thanks to the F35s having ever installed on a fighter jet, the Pratt and Whitney F135. This engine is the heartbeat of the F35 and can The F/A18's two engines together That said, having two engines provides engines experience a malfunction. But even though the cruise speed airplanes are not that different, the F35 has one massive But stealth wasn't the reason why the See the Air Force variant of the airplane, the F35A has an internal gun The F35B and F35C variants, do not have this internal gun which They traded the gun in for fuel, which gives the F35C more range and remain farther from the target. That said, the F35C can be equipped with a pod 25mm Gatling gun on the inside. Both fighters can carry up That said, the F35s can only carry inside their internal weapons bag. To carry internal and external weapons, has to sacrifice its stealth capabilities. The F35 also has the most advanced sensor one of which is the advanced to locate adversaries and disrupt attack. But The F/A18 Super Hornet and therefore this next has to exist. The EA18G Growler was built but with added electronic Aside from jamming enemy radar the Growler can detect surface them by jamming them. It can also carry anti radiation home in on enemy radar signals. The EA18G Growler essentially softens F/A18 Super Hornets to penetrate them without ever being detected. But when it comes to the thousands of their favorite naval airplane is the letters and Amazon packages. The Carrier Onboard Delivery, or COD aircraft is responsible for and supplies to mail and Amazon For decades, it was the C2 Greyhound The C2 is actually a derivative of fuselage with a rear ramp for Having shared airframes is a big these aircraft on board the supercarriers, given that they have many which simplifies parts inventory and But in 2009, the Navy started looking and in 2015 they announced a as CMV22B as the successor. The fleet of C2 Greyhounds are to by 2028. One of the advantages of using a aircraft is that the Osprey can take but fly like a turboprop aircraft A good mix of access and speed. But the Navy is also looking which has only become feasible Unmanned aerial vehicles or UAV have also For example, the MQ25 Stingray. The Stingray can be launched from the similar to any other naval It's the first ever UAV which has been other naval aircraft while in flight. This includes the Super Hornet, and the F35. Without the Stingray, the only other aircraft that carrier for refueling missions is the Super Hornet itself. This is done with the help of refueling the belly of the aircraft... But the obvious disadvantage of using platform was exactly that... Using a strike fighter This, burned through the service faster than initially anticipated. So the Stingray is a great addition... But not all naval drones In July 2018, the initial operational test and was conducted aboard USS Coronado, an Independence class The Fire Scout is an unmanned takeoff and landing capabilities during day and night. Equipped with powerful this platform was intended to expand reduce the risk to human pilots. That said, with a price tag of $28 million per unit, the cost wasn't quite and the Navy decided to put the Fire Scout in storage. So until the UAV technology matures, the E2 Hawkeye and its crew of the catapult. Play &quot;War Thunder&quot; for free on PC New and returning players that also receive a massive bonus package, including multiple premium It's a limited time offer,