- All right, I'm finally doing it. I'm finally reviewing the car for the past year and a half which is the Tesla Model S Plaid. I put 30,000 miles on this car And the thing about this car, I think there's a lot of first impressions out there about it where two weeks, something like that. And a lot of 'em are right, but a lot of 'em are kind of like you have to live with the car to see if you will actually get used And so now from an owner's perspective I can tell you which features I like and which one I really hate 'cause there is one that I really hate. There's also an option on this car that almost no other cars because it was pushed to next year. But I was lucky enough to get it which is the carbon brake package. I'll tell you about that But yeah, let's review So let's start with This is what a lot of tell you is an older design, which it is. The model S is a decade and the silhouette is pretty similar to when it first came out but it's gotten some and I'm gonna throw in my I still think it's a It's a really nice silhouette. It is a big sedan obviously, It's got the 21 inch wheels on And we'll talk, like I said but this is a one and so it doesn't have the new headlights but I still think they're pretty good. You can see the new fog lights up front, a little bit of that on through there. Big grill at the front for The front trunk, oh, I should say this is wrapped by the way. So this sat in black and how dirty it is is and there's a little bit of black camo in here and on these. I think that was tasteful, anyway. So the basics as far as specs are this is a triple motor power It's got one motor between and two motors between That's where most of your torque is. Obviously you're accelerating, you're shifting off those back wheels. A lot of that weight goes rearward. So that's super helpful. It'll do that two seconds, It's a monster in a straight line, okay? I'll get to the driving But also, it showed on 100% charge when I first got it. We're now 30,000 miles in and it shows about 365 So it's about a 8 to 10% range degradation which is close to normal, but close to normal for an Now you can't talk about owning a Tesla without talking about a key. Now, you can have a card but I think what a lot of people do and what I do is use the phone, as the key to the car. Because number one, as far as how close you for it to actually unlock the doors. How close I get right there, right there. And when I walk away from the car, it's really well calibrated as far as closing and locking too. So that's really good. But then the app itself I mean you get the unlock and lockability you can preheat the car. Here's the interior climate control. You can heat the seats, do all kinds of stuff like that. Beep the horn, see where the location is, view charging stats, call service. You can even summon it to you if you're kind of far away I don't do it much, I don't recommend it but the app is really good. Then you get into controls and you can see all the you can see your tire pressure. And this will actually bring that I don't like about the car which is that the front so it won't open by itself. I mean, it's kind of a bonus to have a powered opening front trunk but for $130,000 car, you'd think that that would be included. And there's some other stuff that I'll get to that you'd think would be included but isn't. Either way, pretty not huge, but not tiny. You could probably fit, I don't know, a duffle bag and a half, three backpacks, something like that. But I almost never use it I have to open it manually every time. If I'm in the car like this, in the powered hatchback, which is huge. So this does not get much use They use it more on other EVs. So here we come around the back. Again, I don't know about you but I think this is a good looking shape. The lights are flickering on video but they don't usually flicker. That's how you know that it's a Plaid unless you have the text that says Plaid. And if you know what about then you know. A little carbon fiber spoiler back here. But here's the powered I mean this is a ton, a ton of space. I can fit all kinds of stuff in here. And then underneath this is a sub trunk where it's grocery bags, where there's duffle bags, I have a tire pressure inflater over here. I mean this is a gigantic amount of space. There's a tiny bit of a curl up here with the dual motors under there. But over here pull these They don't fold down automatically but you can then fold these down. And I have fit two entire in the trunk of this car. Now again, I'll say for $130,000 this should also let me but they don't, I have So I'll pop over here Now I'll actually start which I think are decent back seats but I'll get to interior But for the size of this car, which is a pretty big car most of this space is actually And these are okay backseats as far as size. So this is a six three driving position and I'm right up against If the person in front of you is smaller, the space is better. But comfort wise, I'm all right. It's not the worst thing in the world. But then you do have this screen down here which is pretty solid. So this is again, part of complete lack of buttons in the interior which is gonna mean as I close the screen that basically all of are gonna be on this screen and you can change your HVAC and to turn it on or off all through the screen. I don't do much of the other on the tiny screen or But you can, if you want to. You can also heat the back You got two USBC ports down But these are decently comfortable seats. Not that I spend a lot of but I find that this is pretty good. There's also a huge sunroof which I also like a lot. This is a solid back seat but if you're gonna talk about let's do the front seat. Oh, by the way, this is another thing this is the number one thing they don't understand about the car is how do you get out? It doesn't look like there's any handle but this is a touchscreen button Anyway, front seat. So these handles here that I believe, this is but I'm pretty sure they're on Tesla's is just the interior. The handle slides in for But anyway, you get in the car and you are in the cockpit This is, in my opinion, I like it a lot. You can see this is the white interior. All the Plaids also have but this trim matches up nicely. The shapes are nice. Multiple materials here. This is a good improvement, a pretty big improvement I'll turn my fan speed down so you can actually hear me over that. But it isn't up to the speck of, I mean you've heard this the Porsche of the world other $130,000 cars will feel Here's some examples, right? This carbon fiber sheet here and then open all the way. It opens all the way for me, You can hear it try but that's been broken that I've owned this car. If it stayed open, I would pop this back and have But also this pops back. There's more storage in here. I like the way it's laid out, but it's just not the most, there's creaking, of extra wiggle room on some of the stuff you'd like there to not be. It's fine for me because for reasons why I got this car or why I like this car or But it would be nice if Okay, so there are two things that I really like in this interior and two things that I really dislike. You can probably kind of guess I'll let you form your But anyway, the things that I really like are actually one, the shape of the yoke. I really like it. I think this is one of the things that you spend some time And I wouldn't go back to a normal wheel and this is gonna be subjective it is a lot more square and And when you're driving you kind of have to where maybe you're doing a full K turn or maybe you're pulling and you have to do a little Those are the couple of things that you find you have to get used to. But for most driving, which in America is a lot of straight roads a lot of subtle turns like this, this is totally comfortable and it gives you much more visibility to this screen here. And then the other is the software is really responsive. Now again, there's not a lot of there are almost zero I mean, you could consider the hazards even not a real button. Door handles not a real button. I guess these are the You can still go park, by touching with your foot but you don't really do that much. You actually end up swiping swiping on the screen to go backward. That brings me pretty quickly to some of the things that I dislike. So here's the two main things that I really, really don't like about driving and using One, the buttons on the yoke, right? So this is an important distinction from the shape of the yolk itself. Like I said, the yolk you can think whatever you want about it but they've also chosen the left blinker and the in the form of a capacitive touch button. It's not a real clicking button it does have some haptic feedback but it's a capacitive button. Your headlight adjusting is Your horn is a capacitive button. That's right, nothing This is just your airbag. Your autopilot here, your wipers, and your mics for your voice control. I hate this. I really, really don't like this at all. And I found, I was trying to see how long it would take Fact is in about 1000 miles your muscle memory is perfect. You find you're driving how to hit that button That's no problem. But the button is My right blinker, sometimes I will try to press all over this thing and I'll just have to I swear to God, that's a real thing. This thing is unresponsive all the time. The left blinker 99% of The right one's just bad. This is hard. I mean if it was stocks, If it was real buttons, But not a fan of capacitive I know Elon keeps saying things Look, it's 2022, we're not there yet. You need real buttons And that's also true which means you gotta slide over while you're driving by the way. So it's kind of hidden and you gotta hit the and then change your fans Now this is cool. Like this interface of being able to point the air wherever you want and your passenger pointing And then there are fans here and having the airstreams to send it towards your That is cool. But I also just want like a The fact that I have to go like this to hit the exact fan speed I want while driving is insane, If they could update even to go right or left to add a little bit or take a bit from fan speed, that would be nice. This is awful. It's cool looking but it's All right, last thing about the software. I will say, the rest of is really as good as it gets for an electric car, right? I've tested a lot of EVs now and just different car companies' systems that they've built, Mercedes, As far as like what this does not have Android which is bold. That is bold. But all the info you get, which is from your to the Spotify being built-in, to the cameras here to the energy graph. Which look at this, this is just actually recently added with the software Gives you an idea based on how you drive, the elevation of your drive, and where you're navigating to, your live projection of versus your original It's also totally missing a 360 view. Why does this car not have a 360 view? There's a front camera, it's right here. There's a back camera, There's a camera on that. There's a camera on that. There's cameras in here. Camera in there. Why is there no 360 view? That would've been, I mean that's huge. Most cars I drive these but you can see the You can instantly view You can view the charging speeds. You can see how many You can navigate to it. It'll start preheating your battery. All this is great, great software, but that takes us right into the driving What's it like to own that you charge instead of And to be fair, it's pretty much as good as it gets for an EV. This has a lot to do with which is the superchargers, which talk to this car plug and play as good as it gets. Which is basically the reason why I think this makes the best daily driver of any of the EVs that I was considering. But there's a lot more to So let me show you something. This is one of the things about this car that a lot of others don't have right now, which is this car, with the 21 inch wheels has a carbon ceramic brake package. Huge, huge, very expensive $20,000 upgrade to the Brinks. Why did I do this and why And would you recommend it? Good question. I'll start by saying that there are a lot of initial complaints and I was one of them, They are, how do I say this? They're okay, they're normal and that's fine for most cars. But this car also happens than any other production which slowing down from the speeds that it is capable of so quickly requires more brakes, right? So from normal 30, 40, 50 mile an hour highway These can stop repeatedly. But as you quickly find out or do a lot of repeated heavy braking or just spirited driving the stock brakes are after they start to fade quickly. This is one of the which is there are some other some other carbon ceramic brake packages. This one is actually really nice. It's very well calibrated so you don't have to get a to initially get that bite They are more powerful right off the bat and they do not fade. They are great brakes but they're expensive Should they have come with the car? No, I don't think so. I think there just should have been bigger better steel brakes on this car. If you're gonna track this I actually wouldn't recommend without improvements to the brakes. (bird squawking) These birds make weird noises, but as you can probably yeah, this car is a It's absurd, it's obscene. You've seen the videos you might have even seen my The initial acceleration, the and just as far as like everyday driving the ability to just place because of your ability to steer and drive and accelerate exactly It has also a lot to do with the calibration of the So taking your foot off the accelerator and having it reliably all the way to zero is super helpful. This car is very, very fun to drive in a way that is super fun to me. It doesn't handle as well as a Taycan. it doesn't handle even as But I love driving this Oh, and there are also that I should address with this car. How many are there? I think there's at least two of them. One of them or maybe three. One of them was the ability to play a bunch of games in this front console. You can play some games. You can see all of the options here. One of them being arcade but don't they always advertise That's not available. That never has been. I mean this is cool. This is better than most. If you're at a charger and you could just play games or watch YouTube videos, that's sweet. But you're not playing So that's one. Two is the full self-driving. I did a full video on the main channel of just me experiencing it and It works sometimes on some roads and there will be plenty for it to get better but it is very much still a beta and I paid 1000s of dollars for it to be able to do that years ago. And it's just now starting to be available and still in beta. I consider that a little And the third is, and I don't know if this is still on Tesla's website but claiming a 200 mile per It never has been with this car. It's, I think claimed that it will require a hardware upgrade. Right now the car's top speed is like 160 which on any straightaway, on any track is pretty much as good as you need to go. And with these brakes, fine. This is not a car I think I even want to But they just kept saying it for so long. This car does not go 200 miles an hour. It has a max speed in track mode of 175. But that for me, I think is about it as far as daily driver stuff I'll leave it at this. I think this is the best for me for a couple reasons. I mean American roads, Being able to place yourself on the road, the acceleration, it's awesome. It's just a fun car. It has tons of space. And then as an EV, I do a lot of road trips. For Ultimate Frisbee, there's games and I might go or to Ottawa or Montreal or Toronto or back to And being able to rely on the It's a huge part of owning Also having a charger in the garage starting every day with So yeah, driving people around, driving alone around having a good time. I think this is a generally but there's just those couple of things that you don't think about when you don't own the car for a while. Like the steering wheel, like So there you have it. Matter of fact, one more thing that I think way more cars that only this one seems to have which are century mode Century mode being the to the internal computer and you can anytime have it trigger and record. So anytime anything happens to the car, you have a video of it. And the built-in dash cam, always recording while you're driving, recording internal storage rip that footage whenever you want. More cars should have that. So now I've been fair, I've talked about things and not things that this Okay, that's it. That's my review of Model for me for now, anyway. Thanks for watching. Catch you guys in the next one, peace.