A portion of this video is Where there's tech, there's magnets. The strong AKA permanent magnets, aren't only on your fridge. and in your cell phone, headphones, and hard critical resource for renewables, because motors in electric vehicles rely on them to run. magnets are made of what we call rare-earth expensive, and not widely recycled. Processing the vast majority -- over 90% -- are sourced from the elements most crucial to clean energy But what if we could avoid using them electric motor? With his design for a a Floridian high school student has just cloud computing to try to improve electric motor some exciting advances being made but how much of a difference can they make? In his own words, 17-year-old Robert Sansone in electric motors." While researching electric environmental impacts of the rare-earth elements them.This sparked his interest in developing an But first, what are these rare-earth elements, and the periodic table are considered rare-earth clarify, rare earths aren't really "rare" in terms quantities large enough to justify mining.However, elements are highly conductive to electricity from fighter jets to fiber optic cables. Glass and represented about 10% of the end-use distribution Rare earths are used extensively in the converters of cars or the rechargeable batteries the process of turning oil into gasoline. And and dysprosium in particular are vital. In fact, neodymium-iron-boron magnets are the most temperatures as high as 230 C, and they're because they allow gearboxes to be eliminated in of neodymium into perspective, a single 1 MW turbine's magnet-based generator to function. skyrocket, their concentration in the hands of a concern. The CEO of USA that the United States would need to produce it already does to lessen our near-total However, rare earths production is a costly, Rare-earth metals never occur as free elements, purified to be used, and the process of separating massive amounts of harsh chemicals. This is made earths require different chemical techniques for earths are primarily sourced from naturally producing rare earths creates a significant To make matters worse, products containing and LEDs) are usually dumped into the trash, metals from this e-waste can be extremely consumer electronics typically contain All these factors translate into the priciness gallium, go for hundreds of dollars per kilogram. _thousands_ of dollars per kilogram. Meanwhile, So, despite their usefulness, rare-earth renewable energy. If the permanent magnets that then what are our other options? When Sansone he discovered that synchronous reluctance thing is, synchronous reluctance motors don't so they normally wouldn't work in an use this research as a project for school, But before we get into what this ingenious high sponsoring this portion of today's video. I always but VPNs can be very useful even when you're sophisticated commercial tracking and machine VPN can protect you from some of that. SurfShark's and malicious websites making it safer to you can even make it look like your IP address is can come in handy if you want to stream a video One of the best parts of SurfShark is that whether that's iPhone or Android, to offer one account to use with Use my code to get 83% off plus 3 extra months guarantee, so there's no risk to try it out for to Surfshark and to all of you for supporting To understand what Sansone eventually electric motor is and where permanent magnets if an object moves, chances are an electric motor electric motors are responsible for 43% to An electric motor works by converting electricity flows through a coil within a magnetic produces torque.Torque is what causes an torque is applied to a motor, it spins.This gears to whatever needs to move, like a fan's The core of an electric motor is its metal loop called an _armature_, which, once big flat magnet. Like any other kind of magnet, be flipped by reversing the polarity, which really which wires are charged to the positive and current or DC motor, curved north and south pole up a stator, or static permanent magnet. stator's magnetic poles, but when we reverse the new north on the opposite side. Reversing keep spinning as it tries to stay aligned, DC motors have been in use since the mid-1800s, preferred in 70% of industries.In DC motors, causes it to spin. In an AC motor, made famous power is sent to paired coils positioned along the which is affectionately referred to as a _squirrel phase sequence, essentially creating a swiftly then spins as it tries to "catch up" to the field as the saliency ratio, which is how efficiently before the coils change their charge. Enter Sansone, who zeroed in on synchronous reluctance motors (syncronous reluctance motor) which create an exploitable difference in magnetic reluctance. Magnetic reluctance is equivalent to magnetic reluctance move more as they try to resist maximizing the difference between the low the high magnetic reluctance of the slots ratio. Higher saliency means higher torque. synchronous reluctance motors, or syncronous EVs. Therefore, Sansone's goal was to improve upon syncronous reluctance motor that could compete to these motors, we could theoretically make EVs Armed with a 3D printer, steel, and copper, a novel syncronous reluctance motor.Over Sansone developed his motor without air gaps, their place. This one tweak gave the exploitable boost, producing 39% more torque and operating 31% The efficiency jumped to 37% when the motor 3D-printed plastic parts would overheat. Fortunately, this loss was not in vain. In May, International Science and Engineering heading home with $75,000 for his efforts. he was still working on the 16th iteration of We can only say so much about the viability of he intends on patenting his syncronous reluctance works. And as Sansone points out himself, a isn't possible for him to test the relative the resources he has.In any case, Sansone's Synchronous reluctance motors are an upcoming issues caused by rare earths. _Switched_ in motion. Like syncronous reluctance motors, magnets entirely. They both start with the same little confusing, but they work differently. to three-phase induction motors, a type An SRM works by a similarly magnetic steel and copper-coil rotor. but it does. The magnetic forces exerted on times greater than the magnetic forces that on some significant drawbacks, including they're not very efficient. They aren't as smooth and they display more severe torque ripple, or managing the charged steel components also methods than other types of electric motors. Technologies is attempting to tackle our need to System. Using SRM technology, the company's system cloud. The system collects data from the different motor speed, and stores analytics for both the to ensure the motor operates at optimum efficiency That's a big deal considering the sheer number According Turntide CEO Ryan Morris, if we were with smart motors, we could reduce global or what he calls the equivalent of growing seven and one you should take with a giant performance in the HVAC system case studies In one pilot program, Canadian real estate company two malls with Turntide's smart motors. These 79% and 64% decreases in motor energy usage, similarly tested 800 motors across 400 stores. an additional 20% in savings when coupled with systems, Turntide's smart motors promise to Sansone's synchronous reluctance motor and great examples of "when there's a will, there's of hope for the future of budding engineers out manufacturing permanent magnets, we have pathways elements might be ubiquitous in the clean energy So are you still undecided? Do you think electric difference for the future of EVs and renewables? Jump into the comments and let me know. And be sure to check out my follow up podcast Still TBD where we'll be discussing some of your feedback. If you liked this video, be sure to check out one of these videos over here. Thanks to all of my patrons for your continued support and a big welcome to new Supporter+ member Winfried Theis. You're helping to make these videos possible. And thanks to all of you for watching. I'll see you in the next one.