If we are going to feel motivated at all, that is, if we are going or have any period of time during our day in which we feel like we are we are going to have of baseline dopamine. In other words, we are enough dopamine in the wave pool, enough water in the wave pool, that is, before we can generate any let alone troughs and the rest. So how do we achieve a healthy Well, there we can really look to some foundational practices, practices that perhaps you've heard about on this podcast before, and that to some of you although some of them are maybe even esoteric. The good news is that we can and they don't require but they do require some degree of regular upkeep and effort. Those things include what Now, the very basics, put in the context of today's discussion, are the things that put Those are going to be of quality sleep each night, something that we've and then have online toolkits for us. You can see the &quot;Master the &quot;Perfect Your Sleep&quot; episode, the &quot;Light and Health&quot; episode. If you want to skip all that we have a sleep toolkit, or it's actually called that you can access at hubermanlab.com. Completely zero cost. You just go there and Getting sufficient sleep each night literally restores your dopamine reserves. It allows dopamine to be present and for you to have a that will allow you to in any kind of meaningful Second, there are practices by the scientific literature to increase your baseline that are independent of sleep but are similar to sleep. And I like to refer to these This is not meditation. There's actually very little evidence that meditation of the you know, sitting, eyes closed, focusing on your a third eye center, which is this area behind your forehead. There is very little evidence that that increases levels of dopamine. There is a place for meditation in the context of today's discussion. But I'll repeat. Meditation itself is a focusing exercise. It is not known to increase dopamine. However, non-sleep deep rest, although different to what's which is where you lie there, you do a sort of body scan, some long exhale breathing. NSDR is very similar. You can find a link to a It's a 10-minute-long one. There are also 20 and also on YouTube, but I'll provide a link Those have been shown to in your dopamine reserves by up to 65%, which is a remarkable number. So quality sleep, non-sleep very powerful ways to keep at a sufficient level. In addition to that, nutrition, no doubt, plays a role in your baseline level of dopamine because tyrosine, the amino acid, is the rate-limiting enzyme Tyrosine is present in varying You can look those up online. You just simply put in a search for tyrosine levels in different foods. Everything from particular cheeses, like, Parmesan cheese has certain meats, certain Without getting into you can find those there. But you need proper nutrition in particular tyrosine, in order to have sufficient The third thing on the list, and again, these are almost every episode, but I don't think they because these are really every 24 hours. You might be able to if you get sick or you're traveling, or you have some major life event. But really every 24 hours, We need to re-up our nutrients. Even if you're fasting, you're from stored sources within your body. The third thing is sunlight. Morning sunlight in particular. I've done extensive episodes about this. Check out the episode on if you want all the details. But you want to try and view sunlight as early in the day as possible, five to 10 minutes on 10 to 20 minutes on a cloudy day, minimum, 20 or 30 minutes on a very Without sunglasses, Please don't damage your eyes. Look off slightly off from the sun. But yes, you want to face And on those cloudy days, that's Why? Well, viewing morning early in the day, which is excellent because you want cortisol and you want it lower later in the day. And because of the relationship between the cells in your specifically morning sunlight, believe it or not, that happens, and signal to your hypothalamus and the relationship and the pituitary and it sets in motion a in neuromodulators, dopamine, and hormones that lead elevated mood, alertness, It also helps your sleep at night. But today we're talking about dopamine. So yes, believe it or not, does increase your levels of And fourth on the list exercise of varying kinds. It could be resistance training. It could be cardiovascular training. That does increase levels of dopamine. Here we're not talking about That could be accomplished through setting a personal record, a PR, or through sprints or heavy lifts or learning some new dynamic movement. What we're really talking about here is getting into a regular if not every day, at a mixture of cardiovascular that we also know is known an elevated level of baseline dopamine. So it's not just about during or after exercise. It's also about the that's achieved through regular movement and engaging in movement. And if you're asking, &quot;How could that be?&quot; Well, you already know the answer. The circuits in the brain and not just goal seeking, as I mentioned earlier, And yes, that circuit is separate from the VTA nucleus the mesocortical circuit that we've mainly been focusing on today, but they interact. And so by engaging in regular movement, you ensure that you're of baseline dopamine, if you're going to be able to engage in any kind of motivated So those are the fundamentals that will set the level of A couple of key points. Yes, there is variation based on both genetics and circumstance in baseline levels of dopamine. If someone's going through or if somebody inherited a gene in the dopamine synthesis pathway that simply affords them higher we likely know these people. They seem hyper motivated all the time, not just based on prior success, but they just seem to have a lot of energy and a lot of go drive. You know, you talk some of you may know what that term means. Others of you won't. Having low activation energy is great. I mean, the amount of energy that it takes to get into action to pursue adaptive and meaningful, healthy goals. Some people just seem to and higher levels of dopamine are probably associated with that. Some of us have lower Regardless, everyone needs to engage in the foundational things that I just mentioned a few moments ago, every 24 hours, or at least strive to. There is no escaping that. [MUSIC PLAYING]