[Applause] &gt;&gt;CAITLIN DOUGHTY: Hi! [Applause] Hello, Portland! [Applause] For those of you who have NO idea [Laughter] Second of all, I have pulled this clearer picture: "This mortician thinks So now that we're all on the same page, [Laughter], I have decided to title this talk: "Follow of a VERY Specific Advocacy." [Laughter] Now, to be honest, I don't consider Like, we're all kind of aware that we're in die. But that doesn't stop people from seeing my So, as I talk about this today, we'll start advocacy all started. The first publication that ever wrote about reporter actually interviewed my mother and that she had been interested in death for the signs.&quot; [Laughter] Which is very, like, 1990s anti-marijuana "She was eating all those potato chips, And with all due respect to my mother, who signs. [Laughter] Starting way back in second grade, Duper Job to Caitlin Doughty" for, what? "A good witch story." [Laughter] Wish I could find a copy of that. What I DO have a copy of is my diary from And &quot;diary&quot; is kind of an expansive term, completely empty except for one single entry, Finally, it's come!" [Applause] [Laughter] Or, should I said, "finly" We're working on the spelling, still working Keep in mind that I grew up in Hawaii. [Laughter] Born and raised my whole life. So that means that I was really trapped between Here we have me in high school, clearly committing against a chain link fence, but I believe aloha print shorts and a Hawaiian surf t-shirt. Keeping between two worlds continued, I would at 16 or 17, to go to these goth and fetish and The Dungeon. [Laughter] And then I would sleep in my car activity, which was of course, my competitive Because that's what you do in high I also went to an incredibly conservative chapel, the whole deal, and we had Christianity In 10th grade, we had to write a big final I, of course, chose Satan. [Laughter] [Applause] [Cheering] "The Prince Bible," on which I got an A+ because I researched the CRAP out of Satan. I knew more about Satan than any Christian This carries on. In 12th grade, I am made editor of the school And I was SO happy. I loved, loved, loved doing this job. And in the first of two &quot;who let her do this?&quot; the entire yearbook around my, at that time, [Laughter] [Applause] Anyone? Some AFI fans in the house! Okay, great. [Laughter] This is the opening page that I my classmates writhing in pain of hell and I pulled this out for this talk, [Laughter] Because, every time I do, it reminds couple of years that you're making stuff, Nowhere is this more profoundly true than So at last I graduate and I go to college This is my big chance, I'm on the mainland And in the second of "who let her do this?" coffee shop at the University of Chicago. And I was allowed to launch a school-wide Coffee Shop," and choose the winner, which the name to this day. [Laughter] Because you can't rename it all coffee shop. To graduate in medieval history, of which you need to do a thesis, a long, researched And my thesis was, "In Our Image: The Suppression Witchcraft Theory." Which means that, many years later, I was for a good witch story. [Applause] And I ended up eventually just I called, "Demonic Babies: A Guide for New [Laughter] And, just really quickly because There was a medieval theologian named Thomas a human male and a female demon, a succubus, his semen and transmogrify into a male demon, with that semen and thus a demonically-inspired That's neither here nor there, I just wanted [Laughter] So this is all to say, that by and living in the Bay Area, it was not a massive and I was the crematory operator, which means doing the cremation of the bodies. It sounds bizarre to say this, but within is what I was going to do with my life. I don't just mean working in the funeral industry. I mean doing exactly what I'm doing right the scenes in the funeral industry to the Because I was seeing things every day that For example, this is a cremulator. How many of you know what a cremulator is? [Solitary Woo!] Some cremulator fans in the audience. [Laughter] When you put a body in a cremation all the organic material away from the body that are inorganic material, so they're So you take them over to this machine, the and a blender, it whirs for 20 seconds and sandy ashes, or cremated remains that you've So things like that, I was like, why don't People need to know this! This is gonna make them feel more empowered So really, I started right then. And over the next 12 years, this is essentially And over that time, my advocacy has expanded care, new technology, family-involved death said, hang out with corpses and not be afraid, get better service around death care. We all, as advocates or activists or artists a lens through which we look at the world, And mine just happens to look like this. [Laughter] I look at the world through death-colored This is my boss, death, and I always have the best thing for death awareness in our Now that we know how we got here, briefly, be the blessings and curses of having this A pro is that there is no competition! [Laughter] Which works incredibly well for most famous mortician is like being the world's Nobody else wants this job. There are incredible advocates who are doing want to do it publicly, which I completely And for me, I'm not a very competitive person. I live in Los Angeles, where I see people be seen in some way, and that seems genuinely I remember I was on the basketball team in because I was tall and they made me. [Laughter] And I didn't have any of that "Eye I just wanted to trot off the court and keep That's all I wanted to do. But with that lack of competition, the con to people all the time, even though no one to -- your brain will still find something For example, I write books and I'm very proud But I have friends and colleagues who I consider I'm just like, "Will my cat eat my eyeballs?" I also make videos. There are people who are making videos and edit on, I'm not kidding you, iMovie. That's how these are made. But I think the worst one is that I run a real narrative of, like, I'm a badass female [Laughter] Whereas my actual lived reality understand! It's just a nightmare of small taxes that [Laughter] And I'm like, what is this bill I have no idea what it's for or where it Another pro is that it is easy to see value cultural change around death is incredibly it or talk about it. But because I work with so many amazing people lives over to death in this way, we've been In Seattle, in Washington, they just legalized [Applause] Which is a radical, fascinating, body, and my close colleague Katrina Spade We really thought it was going to be years you know, in the year of our lord 2019 and places soon. In California, what I'm fighting for on the what Oregon has already done, especially in or water cremation laws, which we both legalized It's a lot of being able to see real legislative But if you put yourself out there, in any you are an attention-seeking harlot. And you'd be surprised, or maybe no, maybe industry and the things they have to say about directors. Everything from she's a starlet looking for And I always want to tell them, if I was really industry reform is not what I would have gone [Laughter] Surely I could -- I consider myself I could have come up with something a little But it's especially hurtful when it comes This is a letter, or an email, that I got become a more public advocate. This is what it said, "You are doing in [her country], but in a much bigger, louder, For me too, it is a calling and I love my publicity and not naturally attention-seeking." I mean, I guess there's a more charitable something nice, but I didn't see it that way, And nowadays, I wouldn't have responded to This is what I said, "I'm naturally an introvert. But at a certain point, what I believed and than the desire for privacy and the fear of [Applause] Which I think is something that that everyone's an introvert, but the idea I feel any pride at all in what I've done, This is only for me, just because I'm proud And the answer is no, of course. Final pro: I do get to, now at this point, incredibly deeply about. And I'm not advocating for that for everyone. I think it's equally valid to have a 9-to-5 have hobbies and a rich life outside of your For me, it's really nice to be able to do I was just in Moscow speaking at the Moscow with the embalmed body of Vladimir Lenin, Talk about top of my bucket list. [Laughter] One of the most iconic corpses I got to just go and visit him, and then sit, Sit across Red Square, eat my cherry blintz It was incredible that this was my job, and my god, I get to do this. At the same time, when you work in a non-profit work as an advocate or an activist, you really negative money narratives that tell you that at all, you are a bad person. Because I definitely had that. And it has only been recently that I'm like, if I'm not terrified about money all the time. And so really figuring out what those narratives your financial life, and saying, actually, advocates a living wage. [Applause] I was going to make this whole let me. Can I put 401K data up there? No. Fine, okay, I get it. So I wanted to leave you with a final thought wrap this all up together, but then my boss talk that I have ever done in my adult life instead of what I do and getting across to So I'm just going to leave you with one talk, I need you to know that dead bodies And the reason you should know that is because because living bodies are still sneezing, are not doing that anymore. After a body dies, most viruses and bacteria and you're legally empowered to hang out I just wanted to get that in. Thank you very much. [Applause]