When you started woodworking as a hobby, it probably wasn't too long until friends and family started asking you to make them things. It's also probably not too long until you realize you can make some money doing it now. One of the most popular things to sell starting out is cutting boards. So today I'm going to give you 5 tips on how you can make more money selling cutting boards in. This applies to selling almost anything as well. Now when I first started selling cutting boards, it was like 2015, 2016 and I was strapped for cash, but I wanted more woodworking machines because don't we all want more and better woodworking machines? And so I thought it would be a great way to let woodworking pay for itself, and so I started selling online on Etsy, right? So first, let's get grounded in what it actually means to make money doing woodworking. Make sure that you really understand before you go into it what it takes to make an actual profit so your top line is your sales and that is whatever you sell your product for. If you sell a cutting board for $100, you didn't just make $100, you sold $100 But you have to take. Out expenses so expenses are what lies in between your sales and what goes into your pocket. Of course, then Uncle Sam wants to take his cut as well. Your biggest expenses are going to be your materials, your labor, as well as your selling expenses and your overhead. So there's a lot to consider in there. And make sure that you're not just glossing over the fact that, oh, I have to use electricity or I have to pay rent or I have to do whatever these things are that are hidden costs that you might not be accounted for as you're selling your products. But what I want to focus on is how to raise that top line and reduce some of those expenses that are going. Into the product as far as selling expenses overhead and those things. That's another topic for another day. So the 1st way to make more money selling cutting boards is you have to be unique. I did a search on Etsy for cutting boards and there were over 123 thousand different listings for cutting boards so it is hugely over saturated right now in SC is no longer just for small handmade folks anymore. I went on there and looked there was a company that has sold over 100,000 different items and that means that they are mass producing these and doing something at the end to call them handmade. So you can't be competing on price with them because they just have such volume. That they can make things for very, very cheaply, and they're probably getting a lot of things from overseas, so you have to be unique and find your niche in the market. Now. selling cutting boards, I was selling very basic models. I was selling like an 8 by 12, just regular Walnut Board and I was selling them for maybe 40 to 50 to 60 bucks at the most. And that's because there was nothing really special about them. What you have to do is you have to have a value proposition. Now. what does the customer get from you that they can't get from anybody else. So what I started doing was integrating. New designs, so I looked at this board. I started making some little accent strips and this is one that was pretty popular. Actually I just had a couple of different types of wood in it and that was enough to catch peoples eyes and say, oh I like that board and also they will pay more for so I started selling my boards from 75 all the way up to even $95 for different designs and you can also do other designs like in green. So I started making some ingrained designs and when you look at engrained boards there is less competition. There's actually only 5200 listings for. End grain cutting board on Etsy right now. So I started doing different shapes and designs and started playing with the patterns of the wood even to get something that is unique, something that stood out in something that people were willing to pay more for. So using the same amount of material you can sell your boards for a lot more because now it is something that is different and people like different people like things that catch their eye and that they can put on display in show in their house. So I started playing around with that Diamond engrain. Actually the board I sold for the most amount of money. It was only I think. A 12 by 12 board so pretty small but it had that diamond pattern but it was mostly sapwood. Had a very unique look. I called it the diamondback so marketing is a whole another thing obviously. So it was completely unique. There was nothing like it out there. Somebody saw it fell in love with it and I sold that for $200 and that was the most. I sold a board for it even though it was not nearly the size of my largest boards that have sold. You can charge a lot more money for boards that have cool designs on them. But one thing you do have to watch out for is how much time you're putting into it. So a board like this. This was one I was kind of just making as a hobby. Obviously I kept it. This is going to take a lot more time than it would to make just a traditional edge grain, so you're going to need to factor that in and make sure that you're pricing it accordingly so that you're actually making more money and not just having a more expensive product with more expenses an making the same amount as your lower priced products. The higher the price the product, the more profit you need to be making. In the end, there are other ways to make great designs. Actually did a bit lamination. I called the Bacon Board and it was really cool. It took a lot of effort, but you could sell it for a lot more because they're so unique. And this is also a popular design. I made one of these as well charcuterie board and then getting a little epoxy. But you can do all kinds of different organic shapes and designs. And charcuterie boards are pretty popular as well. Actually did the search. There's 54,000 listings on Etsy so a little bit less competition and you can definitely make them in all different sizes and shapes and find that ones that sell best for your customer base. The 2nd way to make more money is to make your boards bigger and better and that might sound obvious, but it's actually the most. Efficient way to raise the price of your boards. When you look at the size of a board, we're going to look at the first board I've ever made this board I made back in 2002 or 2003. I had no idea what I was doing. Anyway. but I kept planning it because it was having tear out and by the time I was done it was 1/2 inch thick. Nobody wants a half inch thick board and one of the things when you look at boards on Etsy, the ones that are very cheap are 3/4 of an inch. So by increasing that size you increase the value. Most of the boards that I used to sell or an inch thick now if you take an inch thick board and you take that to an inch and a half there's perceived value. It looks better. It feels heftier and also you have more material in it. But by taking a board from an inch to an inch and a half you're only adding maybe 1/2 of a board foot and material, so that's going to be like $4 in materials, but you can significantly up charge and get that perceived value of a higher quality product, so increasing the thickness of a board is a great way to add a little bit in material and a lot in perceived value. The other side of that is the size that you might have a small serving tray like this. This was something I used to sell as well as a little live edge. Not a lot of material there, so it's hard to charge a lot for that. And then the boards. This was a popular size I used to do, which I believe was about 16 by 9. Kind of like that ratio, but you should have different options. You can add that smaller size to have a smaller price point, but then make sure that you have kind of the way your best seller, which is probably going to be in that 12 to 18 inch range but offer an upgrade. Always let the customer have an opportunity to spend more money. And let them look at the larger size because a popular thing is to put them on top of your stove top. You might be selling a 24 by 24 inch board, so you want to have an option for a larger size and you don't necessarily have to have those on hand, but have that custom available and make sure that you're letting your customers know that you can provide them with whatever size they need, but give them some ideas of that extra large size which you can scale up for the beauty of making the boards bigger is that it's a lot more efficient. Cutting a board 16 inches versus 24 inches doesn't take you any longer. You are going to have a little bit extra time in doing the sandingan. Obviously a little bit more in materials, but you should be able to scale that up, but here's the idea. If you're making your boards bigger and better, you want to make sure that you're scaling your profitability. Along with that, the higher the price point, the more profit you should make so you can make less boards and make the same amount of money as selling two of the cheaper ones. Now you can go a little bit too far. This one is my impossible dovetail cutting board, and I believe we're almost 2 1/2 or three inches on this one, so you'll have to find that sweet spot. Of the thickness an where people start falling off, really, I think an inch and a half to two inches is kind of that sweet spot in the cutting board. But look at it that way and get that higher priced field at higher look is to help you get those sales at a higher rate and it's going to equate to more dollars in your pocket. So that's the bigger piece. But what about the better now? The better is the accent would. So I talked about design, but it's also what's in the design, so I'm using some yellow heart here and I've also used some figured and different styles of domestic woods. But when you can. Add in some woods that are exotics that are not seeing a lot. That's going to help drive that perceived value in that wow factor of your boards and you don't need a lot. You just need a little bit to really make your boards pop. If you don't have access to some of these exotic woods in your local area, you can get them from Woodcraft sponsor today's video. You can go online and I'll have a link down below in the description and they sell strips and thin packs there specifically made for cutting boards. You can check out their whole kit and what they can offer, but you can get things like yellowheart Purple Heart, bubinga and a ton of other different wood species from them. And you can also get anything that you need for woodworking between supplies and machinery. Everything that you need to run a woodworking business or your hobby. I'll have links down below in the description to some of the things I use in a big thank you to Woodcraft for being an awesome sponsor of the channel and the 3rd way to make more money is what I'm calling functional upsells so things you can add to your board for the customer and then they can charge an extra price for it and you get extra profit. Now an easy one is rubber feet having rubber feet on a board does help the board from slipping around. Some people like him, some people don't. They're very easy to install. You can buy them in bulk. It's going to just a few dollars onto that price point, but again, keep raising the value of the board that you're selling and two other features that are very popular are going to be handholds and juice grooves, but the great thing about handholds is then you can use both sides of the board. Now this one doesn't have handles, because I only made it about an inch thick, so when you do handholds and you can also make it thicker again, bringing up the value of that board but handholds are great option as well as a juice groove juice groove on the top green for people who like to barbecue in there cutting meat. On top of that, so those are two things that you can add, but you've got to be careful because those are also two items that if you don't have a really great way to do them, can take a lot of time when you look at that, and you're adding whatever pricing you're adding, don't just blindly say I'm going to add $10 for juice grooves or for handholds. You need to look at how much extra time it's taking you, and not just on the router. It's going to take you extra sanding, because if that burns and then you have to sand in that concave, it can take some extra time, so really understand how long it takes you to make those add ONS. You need to be making the same amount of profit on your add ONS, if not more than what you are on the board. So if you're making 30% profit on the board, you need to be making 30% profit on the handhold and the juice grooves and price it accordingly based upon what you're doing and trying to get better so that you can make it faster. An offer that at a good rate for your customer and still make a good profit. But you can make more not just on the features that you add to the board, but what you use to take care of the board. A great upsell is maintenance for the board and you can do a little can of board wax or board butter or beeswax and mineral oil, whatever you want to call it. But basically you're selling a 10 of conditioner for their board that they can use to keep it looking nice and fresh and keep it water repellent. My buddies over at so Cal Wood shop sent this to me. You just buy these tins, you can get them a lot of different places, get some customized labels, they even have it on the back with instructions and ingredients and it is a great way to have your custom logo in your customer's house. And if they're using this to maintain their board, they're going to be constantly seeing your name, seeing your logo and if somebody is looking for a cutting board and they're going to recommend to you. Also when they run out they're going to come back to your shop and buy more. And maybe buy more products from you, whether it's for a gift or for themselves. All you need to make your own board conditioner is a crockpot, and if you have a nice 70s one, I think it makes it even better. I've got this small version if you're going to make a big batch, you can get the larger version as well, but all you really need is mineral oil and some beeswax. You can buy both of those in a multitude of places. The more you buy, the less it's going to be, and then you can just get your ratios. I typically like 4 parts of oil to one part of beeswax. You can just put that into the pot, heat it up and it will all melt together. So this is actually dry right now, and it's into kind of like a gel paste when it hardens and it cools down. So while it's still liquid you just get all your tenzan, ladle that in or put it into the 10s. It will harden and then become this nice paste. That's a great way to have another little piece, and if you have helpers in the shop, that's a great thing for them to do as well. As long as there are safe with the heat now the 4th way to make more money on your boards is again raising the sales and that's through customization. And did you know that? Over 80% of all Cuttingboard sold or bought as gifts. I'm just kidding. I have no idea if that's right or not, but I figure it is because that is a very popular things to have them personalized. So you're buying these for wedding gifts for Anniversary's Father's Day, Mother's Day, having family mottos on them, whatever, that is they're being bought on occasions that people want to remember, and what better way than customization. And there's easy ways to do that. And you can do it as simple as using a handheld wood burning kit, so that is called biography. And if you can do it by hand, you're better than me, because if I did it, it would turn out horrible. But if you're artistic, you can do it by hand. And you don't need a lot of expensive machinery. You can also use a router and different types of templates to do inlays. Do those by hand and possibly backfill those or have contrasting wood. But another great way to do that is with machines. Now I personally have a CNC. I have the X carve by inventables and I've used that to customize and I'm actually going to show you guys how you can customize your own boards as well and what that could look like because it's an easy way to really add in some more value in personalize it for your customer. And I have this small serving board which is very plain and bland. But if we can add in a customization then that increases the value substantially. So instead of going from a maybe $40 board, it could be a $6575 board at that point. Now CNC's are expensive. Now the X carve I have it starts for under $2000, but it can pay for itself and give you an ROI if you can make that extra money doing the personalization. The thing I love about the X card personally is the easel Pro software. They have hundreds of different fonts that you can put a name in there. Put it on to where you want it to go on the board and then just run the machine. And then you can backfill that with Epoxy. Or you could backfill it with a contrasting wood and you have a great way to add a lot of custom flair to your boards so the CNC time is really in set up and then what you have to do afterwards so you do want to make sure again that you are charging the right amount in making the profit on that, but you can set the machine up, let it do its thing and then come back and backfill it. I like to back fill with epoxy and I actually have already done this one so we have the Rodriguez is I use some total boat high performance an mix this up with some pigment. An filled it in there again, this doesn't take very long. I put it in, let it dry, come back, hit it with a hand scraper for a little bit and then send it. I think All in all between this total customization I probably had 20 to 25 minutes into it, so that's not a lot of time. And then when I look at my dollar per hour I can up sell that and make sure that we get a good profit. But also keep the value low for the customer now. A quick word on epoxy. I see a lot of people were using cutting boards and putting epoxy in them. I personally would no longer call it a cutting board because yes, most of proxies are food safe. After their cured again, I used the total boat high performance. This is safe for food contact, but if you start cutting on it then you can start degrading the appoxee. It can start shipping and then you're talking about debris that might get into the food. So I personally would never sell it as a cutting board and have appoxee in it. I would always call those a charcuterie board of serving board and talk to your customers when you sell it about not cutting on the epoxy, but I'll leave that up to you and how comfortable that you feel adding epoxy tears but I think it's a great look now. The other thing you can do is add in the contrast. In late, like I talked about and I did, this little guy and nice little YouTube play button actually got this off of easel pro. It was just a little design that they have. They have over 3,000,000 different designs so lots of different things you can put in there. And of course you can make your own or do family mottos or whatever I'm doing. This makes it totally food safe. This is all just would so you can cut right on it. Now using a CNC. Is going. To have a learning curve, mistakes were made. This is my first time actually doing in late, but it came out great in the second time that I did it. I'll have a link below to the X carve. You can go check that out and the easel software because they do make it very. Easy in the last machine for customization would be a CNC laser. Now you've probably seen these. There are a lot of these on Etsy, his forest customization lasers burn into the wood versus cutting into the wood. I used to have it laser and I used it to customize some boards as well. Now here's a shot of what we did for my mom for Mother's Day and we had a nice little saying on there. So that is a very easy way to burn it in. But then that becomes more of wall art and I really want to cut on it or serve any kind of food on it because it gives it lots of notches. It is not a smooth surface. Anymore, but it's great for something that people can hang on their wall or display. And again, you can do all kinds of intricate designs with that as well. Now the first four ways were all about raising the top line in getting more sales, but the 5th way to make more money is to lower your expenses and do that by getting officient your two biggest expenses in the shop are going to be materials and labor, so how can you reduce those? And there's some great ways to do that. You really need to think about it, and one trap you might get caught in is using off cuts to make your cutting boards. Now that seems great, and that is a great use of material. But what happens is you're cobbling together a bunch of smaller pieces. That means a lot more time through the table saw. That means a lot more joining and getting them right so that you can do your glue UPS. That means a lot more application of glue, but if you're buying lumber specifically for the boards, then you can get bigger pieces and have less cuts, less glue up time. Ann is going to save you money down the road, so if you're really starting to get into production then you should be buying specifically for the cutting boards and not just trying to cobble together whatever you have in the shop because it's going to take a lot more time. So Speaking of material, there are two things to think about. One is how can you get your material cheaper so a shop around an look for your local sawyers go onto Facebook marketplace? Go on to Craigslist, search around and find out who the local people are that are selling lumber in your area. It's a great way to get domestic lumber like cherry, walnut, and Maple because those are words that are commonly available here in the US. But one other way to think about that is to go to a hardwood dealer and there is something that you should definitely price out because it could save you a lot of time. And that is buying your lumber S 3 S so that is surfaced three sides. So it is basically planned to size and has one straight edge. So all you have to do is take it to your table saw in rip it to width. That's going to save you all the time, planning and taking rough lumber down into the thickness that you needed, so that could be a great way if you have a local lumber dealer that supplies S 3 S to check that out and see if you can actually save money by buying it with. The process is already done to it on the labor side. It's all about efficiency. The less hours you put. Into it, the less expense you have and the more profit you can make, or the less you can charge. Pass that onto your customer so you really want to make sure that you are doing batch processing. Don't just make one at a time and go around to the different machines you want to process 456 at a time. If you can spend less time walking in, optimize the setups on those machines so you can make all your rips on your table saw and do all your planning at once and everything else all combined together. So if you are doing hand holes, are you doing juice grooves? Make sure that you get good jig so that you can do that repeatedly. An easily if you're doing engrained cutting boards. One thing that is invaluable is this bad boy which is the drum Sander. Now I would personally never do engrained cutting boards without a drum Sander because I don't think it's very safe to run it through the planer. I know you can do it, but going through the drum Sander is to save you so much time on standing. But that brings up the point of what machinery should you get and how can you use machinery to help you be more efficient. My rule of thumb is always that the only reason that you should buy a machine is if it makes what you're doing faster. Or if it lets you do something you can't do already, IE it gives you more capacity. So whenever you're thinking about upgrading and looking at new machines, take it through that lens an if that machine is not letting you do those things faster or more capacity or things you can't do before. You might not need it. I referenced Etsy a lot, but honestly I would not start out selling there is so over saturated and you can't succeed, but you would have to market very well and know what you're doing. I would suggest going local friends and family word of mouth and then trying to sell through Facebook marketplace. If you do have any type of social media presence, Instagram would be a great place to let people know that you are selling boards and that be a great place to direct people to something like a Shopify. You can set up a Shopify or even a square space that are very easy to set up and you can process your payments and sell things through there with a nice portfolio. I make no mistake making a lot of money in the cutting board game is a grind, especially as a one man shop, so if you're not planning on expanding your just going to this by yourself, you're going to have a lot of work coming at you. If you want to see one man shop looks like that's doing that, go check out Chris Devo over here on YouTube. I'll have a link to his channel below. He's had a few videos that have really gone huge and he's showing how he turned his hobby into a business doing exactly that. It is a lot of work. Big kudos to Chris and what they're doing over there, but make sure you know what you're getting into because a lot of times people take cutting boards and then they move on to doing furniture selling higher priced items so that you can sell less items at a higher price versus a bunch of items at a lower price, even if it's in the couple $100 range. So I hope this helps you if you're thinking about selling cutting boards, let me know in the comments what you think about it and if you want to see more content like this. And also if you want to check out how I make cutting boards, you can check out the whole playlist I have over there. I'll catch you guys over on the next video.