- I'm Darren McGrady, the Royal Chef. Former chef to the Queen, Princess Diana, Prince William and Prince Harry, and today I'm going to be making one of the Prince of Wales' favorite dishes, a rack of lamb with a (upbeat classical music) One of my favorite stories probably the first time the Queen had something We were dancing and I didn't really know the dances well, but one was the Dashing White Sergeant. You get in groups of six and then three go this As we were dancing around in a circle and then back again, you and go backwards a little. As I went backwards, the man behind me went backwards too and we collided. And I rubbed my heel half of his shoe. Turned around to apologize, it was the Prince of Wales. (gasps) I thought I was gonna I said, &quot;Oh, sorry, your Royal Highness.&quot; He said, &quot;Oh, oh!&quot; That was a scary time, look back on. He was okay the next day. For the rack of lamb, I a little salt and pepper all over and then once that's with some oil. Then we're just gonna get a nice sear. I used to cook lamb a When the Prince of Wales was there, it was often on the menu. He'd request it, big fan of lamb. I really like Prince Charles. He was a foodie, he loved to know what was being served, He was into organic farming 30 years ago, before it was even invented, I think. So we've got a nice sear now, on the lamb. Normally, it would go 400 degrees and just cook medium-rare, but I'm Sous vide cooking is a and you actually cook the meat or the fish or the vegetables in a bag. Sous vide means under taking the air out of because as it drops into to sink to the bottom so that it cooks. So using the machine, we can suck the air out of the bag and seal (machine whirring) Once the meat's sealed and it then goes into a water bath. I'll cook this in the water an hour and a half, and once it's done, we'll slice into it and the top to bottom. The Price of Wales loves wild mushrooms and I remember one time and we heard that he was and bringing his chefs and bringing a man to show them all around the estate where the best mushrooms beautiful wild mushrooms on the Balmoral, a 50,000 acre Balmoral Estate. We asked if some of our and they brought back an Chanterelles and cepes, incredible. And the whole day was spent in a little butter, a little them to use through the year. The following year, we up to Balmoral to get more mushrooms, but the day before they came up, the chefs, the Queen's chefs to all of those places and estate of wild mushrooms. When the Prince of Wales they couldn't find any, what they thought, but and buried them at the The Queen comes first I'm making a wild mushroom and I've got some dried porcini here and I like to mix them for a little while and go into it. Risotto is one of those hard to make, but it's worth the time and it's worth the effort. You can't just put the you've got to stay with it all the time, and I promise you, that tender you put into it will down later and eat. So start off with a little oil in the pan, then I'm going to add my rice. Stir that into the oil of the arborio rice are coated. Once I've done that, I a nice homemade chicken broth. I think one of the about the Prince of Wales is his passion for organic farming. They have all of this that The Duchy Estate where They have all the He has an incredible vegetable garden, there's all this cattle, from his estate, all of it's fantastic for the chefs because the Prince is the produce from the gardens. Risotto, and it's ris-otto, Risotto is a complicated You've gotta keep stirring it. It's not like when you can throw it on and answer the phone or something. This one, you've gotta and the temperature of the and it just needs to be ticking away. It's almost like the Italian lifestyle. It's like sitting in the Piazza in Siena, just watching the world go by. That's what the grains and it's just such a I just love this dish, with some truffle oil in or some pecorino grated into it, whether it's some fresh wild mushrooms, sun adds to that flavor. But you do need a good base, you do need a good chicken broth that sort of gives the flavor in there, obviously the rice is not gonna add any flavor. But each time it starts are opening up and so a little more broth at a time. The reason you're adding is because if you add too much at once, it's going to be soupy and We want to be able to have it, when we put it into the and then sits and holds. That's the perfect risotto. One of the things I noticed is his love of Italian food. And whether it was the or whether it was polenta that's what Italian food When Prince Charles, Princess were all eating together, was on the menu. Princess Diana loved it and clean, lots of nice salads and things, a beautiful risotto like And for the boys, some Italian pizza. I mean, what boys don't love pizza? I know William and Harry do. As the arborio rice starts we can now add some white wine, a little chardonnay in if you wanna keep it Italian. The Prince of Wales loved going off to Italy and sitting there, and I think that is where and for the beautiful the food came from. When he's out painting a little sandwich, a little big thick sandwich like a piece of plum pudding that they prepared at Buckingham Palace. When it comes to eating, for the Prince of Wales. Normally starts the day with Often some plums from lightly poached, a little to go with it. And then lunchtime, there may be a lunch, there may not be a lunch. It could be a sandwich. Afternoon tea, he's been He's very fond of boiled eggs. So just a little toast And then in the evening, something a little more substantial. The risotto's been cooking and it's just all come together perfectly and smells amazing. Those wild mushrooms have opened up. They're still nutty, that's what we want. We don't want overcooked rice. What I need to do next is put some pecorino cheese, and and make it the perfect consistency. Let's add the cheese. The cheese really brings this together. So some Parmesan cheese The perfect risotto. I've got Parmesan cheese in there, I've got some black pepper, a little salt if we need it, but be careful because you've got the chicken broth. As that reduces down, you from that, too. So add any salt at the end. And then of course, the truffle oil. That always makes it The amazing truffle oil that And with the wild Look at the consistency in that. That's the perfect risotto. All we need now is the lamb. My lamb's been sitting in for about an hour and a half now. I'd love to say it smells amazing, but one of the joys of sous vide cooking is that when you're there is no smell. It's not until you actually slit the bag you get to smell the incredible flavors that have all been sealed in as it cooks. The lamb now smells incredible. The searing is fantastic, If you want to, you can do another sear, that's a double sear afterwards to make it crunchy on the top. But for me, this texture into the lamb. I don't think it gets Look at that gorgeous, gorgeous lamb. The cheese is melted and so we can put all of this together. You see how when we put this in the bowl is just runs a little? It's not like soup, it's It just runs til it finds its own level and then the beautiful It's just gorgeous. All it needs is a little basil oil. I've mixed some basil with some olive oil, blended it together, a little salt and a tiny drizzle. For me, that's as Italy, that's as gorgeous, that's That's just beautiful food. Now it's about the tasting. This lamb is so tender, And the risotto, it's just gorgeous. See how it just sits there? Those flavors together, the beautiful spring lamb, the risotto, the wild mushrooms, the truffle oil, that basil oil coming through at the end. It's a fantastic dish. I love Italian food, I I can see why the Prince Please follow me on (mouse clicking)