Transcriber: Bob Prottas Hello everyone. I'm Sam, and I just turned 17. A few years ago, I wanted to play snare drum and it was a dream But each snare drum and harness weighed about 40 pounds each, and I have a disease called Progeria. So just to give you an idea, So, logistically, I really couldn't carry and because of this the band director pit percussion during the halftime show. Now pit percussion was fun. It involved some really cool like the bongos, timpani, and timbales, and cowbell. So it was fun, but it involved no marching, However, nothing was going from playing snare drum in the halftime show. So my family and I worked a snare drum harness that would be lighter, So after continuous work, we made a snare drum apparatus (Applause) I just want to give you some more It affects only about So it's pretty rare, and the effects of Progeria include: tight skin, lack of weight gain, and heart disease. Last year my Mom published the first successful and because of this and John Hamilton asked me &quot;What is the most important thing that people should know about you?&quot; And my answer was simply that I have a very happy life. (Applause) So even though with a lot of them I don't want people to feel bad for me. I don't think about and I'm able to overcome So I'm here today, to share with you So, for me, So this is a quote The first aspect to my philosophy is that I'm okay with what I ultimately can't do because there is so much I can do. Now people sometimes &quot;Isn't it hard living with Progeria?&quot; or &quot;What daily challenges And I'd like to say that, most of my time that have nothing to do Now this doesn't mean that I ignore When I can't do something like run a long distance, I know what I'm missing out on. But instead, that I can do through things like scouting, or music, or comic books, or any of my favorite Boston sports teams. Yeah, so -- However, sometimes I need to find by making adjustments, and I want to put those things Kind of like you saw So here's a clip with me playing Spider-Man with the Foxboro High School at halftime a couple of years ago. (Video) Spider-Man theme song (Applause) Thank you. All right, all right, so -- That was pretty cool, and so I was able of playing snare drum as I believe I can do So hopefully, you can accomplish The next aspect to my philosophy is that I surround myself people of high quality. I'm extremely lucky who have always supported me And I'm also really fortunate to have a really close group of friends Now we're kind of goofy, but we really enjoy and we help each other out We see each other So this is us goofing off a little bit. So we're juniors in High School now, and we can now mentor as a single collective unit. What I love about is that the music is true, is genuine, So I don't have to worry about that when I'm feeling so good But even having made going on TV a couple of times, I feel like I'm at my highest point when I'm with the people They provide the real as I hope I can provide (Applause) Thank you. So the bottom line here, is that I hope you appreciate love your friends, and acknowledge your mentors, and your community, because they are a very real they can make a truly significant, The third aspect to the philosophy is, Keep moving forward. Here's a quote by a man and it's one of my favorite quotes. I always try to have something Something to strive for It doesn't have to be big. It could be anything from looking forward to or going on a large family vacation, or hanging out with my friends, to going to the next However, all of these things and know that there's and may get me through Now this mentality includes staying I try hard not to waste energy because when I do, where there's no room for Now, it's not that I ignore I kind of accept it, I let it in, and do what I need to do When I was younger, I wanted to be an inventor, who would catapult the world Maybe this came and the freedom of expression when I was building with them. And this was also derived who always make me feel whole, Now today my ambitions I'd like to go into the field of Biology, maybe cell biology, or genetics, or biochemistry, or really anything. This is a friend of mine, Francis Collins, the director of the NIH, and this is us at TEDMED last year, I feel that no matter what I believe that I can change the world. And as I'm striving to change the world, About four years ago, HBO began to film a documentary about my family and me That was a pretty great experience, And like anyone, my views and hopefully matured, However, some things have stayed Like my mentality, So I would like to show you a clip of my younger self from the film, that I feel embodies that philosophy. (Video) I know more about it genetically. So it's less of an embodiment now. It used to be like this thing that prevents me that causes other kids to die, that causes everybody and now that weakens the structure of cells. So, and it takes a burden I don't have to think about Progeria as an entity. Okay, pretty good, huh? (Applause) Thank you. So, as you can see I've been But I'd never really had to apply to the test at one time, I was pretty sick, I had a chest cold, and I was secluded from made me, me, that kind of gave me my identity. But knowing and looking forward to a time helped me to keep moving forward. And sometimes I had to be brave, and it wasn't always easy. Sometimes I faltered, I had bad days, but I realized that being brave And for me, I feel it's the key way So, all in all, I don't waste energy I surround myself with people and I keep moving forward. So with this philosophy, regardless of your obstacles, can have a very happy life as well. Oh, wait, hang on a second, one more piece of advice -- (Laughter) Never miss a party if you can help it. My school's homecoming dance and I will be there. Thank you very much. (Applause)