In 1939 Germany found itself in a war with At that time the strength of sides was similar, advantage and in the following years could Germany's only chance for victory was to It set out for an all out attack. This video is sponsored by War Thunder, more For the Western Campaign the Germans had less France had 2 200 000 men in 104 divisions. They were supported by the British expeditionary This made the Allied and the German forces France had prepared to defend its borders. Its southern flank was covered by the Rhine additional defences. Further North, the Franco-German border didn't Here the French had built the strongest defences forces. The mobile divisions of the French army and border. They could be used to hold the Northern part line or the Belgian army if Germany was to The French had more tanks than the Germans, their infantry and could only field 3 tank The Germans had deployed their tanks in single The Germans wanted to use this as the core At first they would invade the Low countries. This would have the Allies to commit their counter the real German attack in the South. The main german tank force would move through weakest part of the French defences, then cut off the Allied forces. In order to move into the Low countries Germany lines. Germany exploited the fact that these nations manned the defenses. They were able to launch an airborne assault lines. Now the paratroopers had to hold out until Learning of the German invasion, the Allies They could move part of their forces into of them in the Central part of the country. They wanted to give Belgium maximum assistance They also sent part of the troops to help In Belgium the Germans were able to link up With Belgian defences breached, the Belgian In the North the Germans advanced into the and linked up with the paratroopers holding This allowed them to move part of the tank When the Germans threatened to launch a terror the Netherlands surrendered. At the same time the tank divisions further the Allied screening units. Soon they reached the prepared French defensive The Germans launched a massive aerial bombardment. The French second rate divisions could not and the Germans were able to breach the defences. The French thought that the Germans wanted by moving South and concentrated on that direction. Seeing that the French Western flank was barely risk and moved forward without waiting for The Allies were surprised by the German breakthrough. But they now knew that this was the main German They began redeploying their reserves to the At the same time they ordered the troops in into a better position and free up some divisions. The Allies did not know whether the Germans and had to cover both directions. For that they could use the three tank divisions But the question was, where should they make The French believed that the German tanks and therefore won't be moving very fast. As a result they believed that they had the Oise river. The German command had indeed ordered their had ignored the orders and continued to advance. They moved much faster than the French had units as they were still assembling. This caught the first French armoured division second division was dispersed and overrun. The 4th tank division was not on the main cover the assembly of the French troops on The German tanks now needed for their infantry As a result, the advance of the German tanks were able to take only limited territory. The Allies were in the process of finishing to deploy troops to cover the Paris direction. But they hadn't had the time to put their They decided that their best hope was to attack it. However, their Light Mechanized divisions two of their tank divisions destroyed, they As a result the Allies were only able to undertake First one was by the Fourth tank division, Meanwhile, the Germans had consolidated their They resumed the offensive in full strength channel direction, they soon reached the sea. The Allies launched an attack at Arras, but The Germans turned north with the intention the Allies off from their supply lines. This move threatened the Allied units with units they had gathered for the counterattack As a result the northern force was unable At the same time their forces in the South up with the possible counterattack from the The Germans ordered their units in the West Allied breakout attempt. The French were deploying forces for an attack arrived to the sector, they needed more troops. But with the troops in the North without access it was impossible to wait any longer. Therefore it was decided to evacuate the troops. They could attempt to break out or be pulled As the Allies had become too weak to attempt out from the ports still under their control. The Allies began the retreat to the sea. The Germans attempted to break their lines As the Allied forces were leaving, the Belgian own and surrendered. The Germans were able to cut off and encircle Other troops managed to hold a solid front, The Germans pulled most of their forces back on France. More than 300 000 Allied soldiers were able was lost. As the Allies weren't able to replace it part in the next phase of the Battle of France. Now the Germans outnumbered the French. The French were holding the positions on the However, the Germans had established several To overcome that, the French could pull the Paris, but they decided against it. The French wanted to use the defensive advantage to inflict significant casualties on the advancing out of steam. In order to do that the French needed to avoid costs. The Germans did not want to give France any forces got ready, they attacked. At first the French plan worked and they were but soon the first breakthrough happened. The German tanks broke through the French The French were able to destroy the bridges But the German tanks now moved towards the By then the other part of the German forces The French were able to slowly pull back, to break through. The French troops west of Paris had been encircled were able to cross the Seine unopposed and The French command was afraid that now their them to break contact with the Germans and Loire river. The defence of Paris was abandoned. But the withdrawal broke the cohesion of the to fully break through into the French rear. Germany wanted not to allow the French forces as much of them as possible. With most of the French army moving on foot, They pushed deep into the French rear and and dispersed. With most of the French army in the west in forces were behind the Maginot line. They had pulled a lot of the forces off from a threat to Germans. The Germans set out to destroy them. They attempted to overwhelm the French defenders Their main force would move in from the west, South. At the same time they launched attacks through Meanwhile the French had reached the Loire However, they were unable to cover all the German forces crossed the river. The French continued the retreat. At the same time the German tanks overran The French in the East were unable to form from several directions and the Germans were small pocket making them surrender. Only a small part of the French forces was become too unfavorable to continue the war. Although the French were successfully resisting were unable to resist Germany. They agreed to German terms and signed the days later. There were several reasons why France lost one of them. While the lighter French tanks did not perform tanks and SOMUA S35 Cruiser tanks were more Large part of the German victory was that on operational level. If you are wondering how the French tanks check out War Thunder. War Thunder is a military vehicle combat game, Instead of having hitpoints, the shots cause or the crew. And it is not only World War Two! Battle from the forts of the Maginot line of Korea and jungles of Vietnam. War Thunder has a vast arsenal of more than aircraft, helicopters and ships from the 1930s War Thunder is available on PC, PS4 and Xbox It is cross-platform between PC and Consoles. It is also Free to play so why not check it If you use the link in the description below, day account boost.