- David. Thanks for taking time away from waiting for Sandler to be here. - Pete's dad never because he passed away on 9/11. Pete's mom has never because she blinks. (audience laughs) (upbeat music) - I want to thank Spade He is amazing. Love you. Love you. Oh by the way, SNL has just released of David's funniest sketches. It's called &quot;The best (audience laughs) - We're here to honor one of the biggest stars of 1987 with some of the (audience laughs) Ralph Macchio's here. (audience cheers) Ralph's a great guy. I drove over here with him, gave him five stars. (audience laughs) At one time, Rob was one of the biggest He was an A-list actor. He was named one of the 50 most beautiful and he (beep) the other 49. These are compliments. Is this guy hot or what? There's not a dry A cleanup on every (audience laughs) For years Rob Lowe but he cured it by (audience laughs) Rob was in a movie back in the day. Remember that? (audience applauds) His character was because at the time (audience laughs) I remember the first time I was at a casting when I came across your headshot and I do mean came across. (audience laughs) He's good looking. It's not easy being Rob. He said being so handsome for him to find I wanted to ask but he was too busy acting (audience laughs) Rob has a line of You can buy them online. You won't, but you can. Our younger audience might So kids, this is who when she's (beep) your dad. (audience laughs) Rob was great on You remember that show? (audience applauds) I assume your pal, helped you with that. He's used to working with aids. White house aids. What did you- Oh oh oh. Rob looks great for his age. Many people have wondered if he's had any plastic surgery. Those same people have wondered if Caitlyn Jenner has (audience laughs) Rob came up at a time when a sex tape could But Rob had to do with his acting. (audience laughs) Rob was in &quot;Austin Powers&quot; too. He was excited to meet the cat, Mr. Bigglesworth. Since it had been a while since he'd made a movie with a hairless pussy. (audience laughs) - Whoa. Macaulay Culkin looks (audience laughs) David, thanks for from waiting for Sandler to be here. David Spade's assistant once tried to kill and the world was you could afford an assistant. - It's not bad. Pete Davidson- Pete's dad never got because he passed away on 9/11. Pete's mom has never because she blinks. (audience laughs) Is Pete white? Is he black? Ann Colter needs to know so she can decide (audience laughs and applauds) Pete, I actually but I guess you just have - Give it up for David doing a great job. (audience applauds) - Thanks David, for giving me a copy before the show. David always keeps a copy on him 'cause it helps him Honestly. Tiny little baby man - You may not know this, but Rob Riggle was a who got shot down Things were so his call time was (audience laughs) - It is nice to see You guys are well once tried to murder him, which I don't know, I guess the stress of answering the finally got to him. (audience laughs) That be hard. That be hard. (melodic guitar) David Spade, amazingly, has slept with some of the most beautiful Proving just how ugly show business makes women feel. (audience laughs) - Jewel. She was born in Alaska and for the last 20 years her career has been on ice. Jewel grew up in a so she turned her (audience laughs) She'll be leaving but her tooth is gonna hang out. - David Spade, our doing a fabulous job. (audience applauds) You look like a female David is perhaps best known for his work with comedy legend, Chris Farley. (audience applauds) Tragically, Chris Farley died due to a lethal cocaine, and the stress of through two movies. (audience laughs) - If you don't know he's a comic who sells Hong Kong, Thailand There's a name for &quot;Opening Act&quot;. He looks like his - Thank you David. For your first roast, this has gotta be Your performance so far reminds me of my when I threw a league and had absolutely no (audience laughs) As we all know, I followed in my But David, you forged I know you wanted to follow in your dad's footsteps, but he snuck outta he didn't leave any tracks. (audience laughs) - [Rob] He's bringing it! - But you did it anyway, David. You went out and got from Arizona State. Although to be fair, I think we all know that a business degree is just a bar towel that says, &quot;You read good.&quot; (audience laughs) Speaking of reading, I recently read Spade's memoir, &quot;Almost Interesting&quot;. Actually. I'm lying. You really think the first book I is gonna be by the guy former child star. I don't think so. - What the (beep). No Peyton! - By the way, David, that title, &quot;Almost talk about false advertising. Now, if you wanted to be honest, you should have called it &quot;Almost Tall Enough to (audience laughs) - I'll take it. David Spade is - [Peyton] Sorry. - Peyton Manning is (audience cheers) No. Come on. We love Peyton Manning. We're lucky to have him tonight. I'll never forget Sadly. He will. (audience groans) He may be the only who's been given more - David Spade. The host with the most steps stools in your apartment. David, you seriously influenced so many female comics' haircuts. (audience laughs) - Some people say Nikki Glaser is only here because Nothing could be If you haven't seen you're me. (audience laughs) - I know it's pretty shameless, but I'm on a stage two &quot;Joe Dirt&quot; films so how shameless can I be? As a &quot;Right Wing&quot; hatemonger, it's fantastic to be at with all these that isn't a I'm hoping to persuade But most of all, because it would prove when they say that of a single Spade. David is the perfect He's successful enough that everyone knows who he is but not so successful that he makes us He's like the Mike A lot of people don't realize that David's sister Kate Spade, judging by your outfit, David, I gather you're not speaking. - Ann hopes the Republicans can hold onto the house so she can continue to haunt it. (audience laughs) She seems stiff and conservative but Ann gets wild in the sheets. Just ask the clan. Looks like she's I haven't seen you since Trayvon Martin got shot. (audience laughs) (upbeat music)