I'm sorry, It's open. These the SIU offices? - Yeah. I'm the new item. I thought I'd - You're wearing uniform, right? So that means you probably Yeah, that's right. See, we don't want black and because we're So the only time uniforms show up Right. Yeah. And they'll come Do me a favor. come on back and I'll give you a Yes, sir. All right, guys, Everybody good to go? - Sir. All right, everybody put your Let's do this. Hold on. I'm short No no. In my top drawer. Take it. From my hand. Take it. Hey, what's up, bro? Your pocket? No, weed tonight, man. I got something better for you. - What, heroin? Come on, man. What do you think? No, you gotta try this stuff. It's good. $1300 an ounce. Yeah, why so cheap? No, man. If I was a cop, I got half a key, man. Yeah. Yeah. That's the signal. - Cops. What, are you Please do a favor, man. Uncle. Nobody listens My bad. Aren't I supposed to get Phone call? I think you've Why don't you give me a break? I've never been That's gotta count for What, you mean like No, like I'm new to the Wrong. See, you assaulted us. Come on. Although I guess I did That was easy. Didn't get a chance to lay So say it's one What you need to worry about The what? The weight enhancement is you That's another five years Are you serious? Well, I mean we can if you wanna give up Well how about Just got a call from They got an ugly double homicide Man, that ain't good. Look, put this white boy back in and I'll catch up with you all Sounds good. - Kane? Double triple over in I'm heading out there right now. Yeah, I heard. Well listen, canvas the area, see what you can find out. Do your CI thing. Maybe you can probably than I can or my Yeah, I heard some things already and so you need to get here &quot;ASAP&quot;. - I'll see you in five or ten. All right, we got too Guys, why don't you see see what you can I got things inside and outside I'm gonna take a walk You got it. Hold up, hold up, listen. There's some strange weeds Money's been flowing. Bunch of white trash rascals Always got their noses in some Listen to me. I gotta take When I get out, I'll get You know my life's changed All right, 'cause I don't All right, we need to talk, Elijah. Thanks for coming in. And our unit's tied up Yeah, that's what Exactly. Come on. Here's the first one. There's another Here's what we've got so far. Talked to Sparks, no fluids, Well there's red mud and this red mud is definitely Deposit safe is sitting there And in my opinion, man, whoever did this knew Why do you say that? Well, it's just a hunch, but welfare checks will In my opinion, everybody'll Most of 'em anyways, so. The folks 'round here would know So we got tire Matches the mud inside. Looks like a good place. They could've been Casing the joint. Get me a forensic up in here. Started to. So get me a forensic and get me a Yeah. Whoa, what is this? Hey, come on, sweetie. It's okay. I'm not gonna hurt What are you doing in there? Get me a Mandarin translator Get me child services. Get her Come on, sweetie, These guys are just don't know who What I do know is Yeah, I feel really Can you tell how bad What, you forget, Kane? Harmony has its own You forget who I am, man. I'm the police and I will I hear that. We gotta do what we gotta do to We gotta get the bad guys That's why we're here. Yeah, without going You don't think this Aw, man, Domion. What're you doing here, boy? Let me tell you something. Country boy You all had a double homicide You heard? Well, maybe you Things changed since Oh, yeah. I know all about And I damn well assure you you would know all about me You're a famous man, I can't say the same You know, in a little place and sooner or later I been hearing stopped working nine to fives Drugs? Us? Oh, come on, Chief. Man you're driving expensive You got that from Yeah. People pay good money You know when the town all he knows how It's a pity, because Camp Harmony had a lot It's a pity you all and dirtied up the trailers. That badge don't mean It don't have to, boy. Unless you're going I suggest you be going. How long you been here, boy? You're the new person I know these sticks Now listen, tell these young folk behind me before I pull out my gun I'll kill you first. Go on! We're coming, somebody here gonna tell me We're done talking. Nobody here wants We'll see about that. Hey, uh, you need to show me Where'd you learn how Somebody pick Snake! Kane! Man, it's all right. Oh? Really? We got these pictures Anyone know any of these That white boy in the red shirt. He comes to town once says he's a salmon fisherman was he's pushing First heard about him when watching strippers downtown. How does that work? Oh man, I've been Well it was some dude named deal dope down south. Domion? Yeah, you know him, Chief? Yeah, I met him last night. Domion is like a-- And after the storm a lot of the Cajun's started and now with this oil spill, their whole No more Crawfish, no more crab, All coming up here to get work. Domion means peeping tom, so they might could tell you All the action seems to center Definitely think we should I had a hunch you might but thing of it is, so I'd like you to get in there but I'd like you to work it Well, I mean, I'm just being It's good with me. It's always easier to talk to All right, cool. see if you can get up and see why he carries This is Sarah. She's the new item here. She's gonna be working - She will? Yes, Chief. Now you all get out of Oh, by the way, Juliet, bring Follow up on this one All right? Let's go. Feel different Yeah, well it's just as You should keep that in mind What's that mean? Look, this job is hard why add to the problem by-- Right, okay. Sorry, it's just When you're out on the field, that's in your car's glove box. Get out on foot, Okay. I don't have a car Yeah, and you will So what kind of cases You'll get the cases Like what? We don't waste time on little We've got 38 cases pending that's one case It means we don't waste time Okay. Look, I'll walk you through the No, don't worry about that. Yeah? We'll see about that. Hey, I got it. Sweetie, it's okay, it's okay. You okay? Do you remember me? How's it going? Scary, huh? Do you think you can talk to me No? Why don't we go get you some Yeah? All right. Let's go. Wait here for the translator. Rise and shine, Thomas. You have enough powdered eggs You better get used to it, pal, 'cause you are looking Look, you guys wanna talk, let's talk. You know Domion? Come on. You already know about Well, to make an introduction. To Domion? No, no. Hell, no. I'll never mess with That dude makes onions cry. Didn't he front you the heroin? No, I deal with one of his I was just looking She talked me into taking Consignment? Wow. You make it Dude, I just sell weed, all It's the first time I tried to What's your connects name? She goes by the name Crystal's probably in Whoa, where you I got business So who's your friends? See I know you, but I don't You don't need to know them, They're with me. Whoa, hey, hey. If I don't know them, then Oh, come on now. - What the hell, man? Sit down and relax. The boys are gonna go see and we're just gonna enjoy Sit down. You forget how to knock? Did you not hear that? Who's this? Oh, he's a friend of mine. How you doing? Friend of yours is no friend of mine. Some more of that horse. Close the door. You sold out already? Yeah. That stuff goes fast. Well, where's the money? I fronted you - Is it all there? I didn't ask you. The money that your friend's Yeah. Relax. Why is he handing me the money? Did Tiny check him? Of course Tiny checked him. Take this and you bring I told you, mister, my business Funny thing is, is I'm gonna You are an a-hole, Thomas. Yeah? So what if I am? What're Just relax, big boy. We'll be out of here So you really a cop, man? Yeah, I'm really a cop. Well, you know we're kinda in the same Wrong. You're a So you really don't think No, I don't. 'Cause you think Hold on a minute. Put your arm to the bar. She gets away, Look out! Move! Move! Move! Radner! Radner! Radner! Radner! He's down, man! He pulled a sap on me! Relax. You all right? Okay, it's a little Geez, relax, kid. Sorry, she's been through a lot. It's okay, sweetie. That was weird. Okay. Maybe we just got an idea of She was at the back of the When her father Okay, so can she describe Were there any tattoos, or striking features She says she saw Okay. So she means that the had the same pale blue eyes she saw in the hallway. She says the one in No, she's upset. She's a smart girl, detective. She says the person she pointed Yo, Mason. You run that force report Ran it by the patrol sergeant Had no choice. You made hamburger Yeah, but he bought it, right? Has he believed it? Come in. I'm almost done with So what's the story, man? Guy hit Radner first, then tried to beat him You're sure about that? He did what he had to do. All right. What could We've been pressing but she's one real tough bitch. I was thinking Juliet might be No, man, I need her for Can't have her. All right, well, Hey, DNA came back Nothing in the Try this one. Is that from the crime scene? No. It's a favor for Kane. What file number Pull a separate one he wants to keep this well You got a name to go Jane Doe. You don't like men, Of course I don't. Of course she is. I sensed this one She's pervious to our charms. It's a genetic thing I ain't talking to you. Well, your friend ain't so tiny. See when you do things to cops, Get out of my face. Tell you what. Why don't you sit Radner, can you What, are you freaking serious? Jeez, Mase, come on. You're seriously gonna front me Go get some coffee. Good for you. Let's just say his way of doing I don't approve of them. I'll tell you what. You give me your supplier, and I'll see to it Your word? If the information results in us arresting I can give you my guy. Whether or not he's the main Write down exactly Hey, she play ball? Yeah, she bought it. The next time you want you mind keeping your vocabulary &quot;Clam slammer&quot;? Hey, hey. What is it with you, man? You've been acting weird bouncer down at the club. Yeah. You beat him - Yeah, that's right. Exactly like the sap I saw Oh, that what this is about? Not about what I think. It's about you holding We're!ll on the same team. You think I planted that thing? And even if you were, we don't Really? Why's that? Crystal just coughed up a There's a drop at the We need to get eyes on the No sign of You out hanging out, Mason? Mason's already inside. Copy. We got an eye in front. You're both in the car? You guys forming a knitting He's right. We should You want me to go No. You stay here, I think you're over reacting. All right, I'm on scene, Yeah, boss, Vehicle we're looking for is Driver is described as a white and according he should be in pocket Listen, just for the record, Why don't you two princesses Comb each other's hair, You know, whatever You get out on foot. Come again, Cinderella? You heard me. end of the street or you can when I drop a letter of intent That clear enough It was a joke, okay? Relax. Everyone on this team I have a black, Keep your eyes open. 10-4. I got an eye. I got a visual That's a guy from Play him loose until We got a white male I got him. Just keep Suspect down! We got a white heading out of the club! Copy that. I'm on foot All right, get him, man. Juliet, back up Mason. Police! Drop your weapon! I'm hit! Mase, you okay? Just stay down! Mason! I got him. My eyes! Radner, get down! Are you okay? Yeah. Mason's hit. Whoa. I screwed up real bad, huh? Not at all. Should've known those Russians You did good, man. We're all walking away Should be back Feels like just bruised ribs. Why can't you make Don't make me laugh. Get yourself a new vest, man. Four for four That'd be great. Thank you, sir. Relax, man. I'm good. Okay? Nothing a cold beer can't cure. Radner, you gonna let Oh, I knew it. You're starting to care about You wanna take a ride with me Do you ever quit? Hell, no. You're the new kid. So rather than calling human why don't you go back to the that documents my heroics. - You're heroics? You're a hard man to find, Yeah, what you got? I got a match on that DNA Don't know if you're Wonderful. Yes, you do. What happened? You needed money You got questions, I don't have anything to say. Yeah, that sounds like Just my rights. I know each and every It's all right, man. She's But I don't think anything's with what I got. We can all talk amongst Yeah, we can. Fact number one, the car left tire tracks that we have that matched the cruiser you Fact number two, her family being slaughtered Gimmie a break. That kid ain't old enough Fact number three, were found at the crime scene So what? Lot of people Fact number four, the crime lab the DNA on the What that means to me is that watched the place, cased it out. That's what we call And that kind of a really great shot which is what I feel Death penalty? What's crazy is you Over some immigrant And those immigrants and those I'm taking this personal. All right. Not really. I just wanna see you fry. And if for some reason our glorious team does minimal you will get life and cops don't really and I'm gonna personally to my friends - Kane here. - Janko wants a deal. She said that she can give you They're the ones that ordered Well, first of all, Why would you believe her? Well, if she's lying, pretty She laid out the How the drugs come transferred to the fast boat and then moved inland through And, Chief, she gave me She said, What does she want in return? Protective custody. Says she doesn't want Said that she'll give us the just to prove that The only thing that's gonna Chinese folk up at the general They might've been able But anyway, man, I'll start the deal with her. - All right. Call it in now. She's gone. Kane, I lost her. Kane, you copying this? I'm fine. Put it in park, bitch! Get out! Get out, bitch! Gimmie the key, bitch! Let's do this. Police. You're under arrest. You all right? Yeah. Just another day They're all dead, Kane. Thanks for the call, man. Look around. I think The Russians didn't know the So they needed help moving I mean it was easy who grew up traversing Trouble is, he got greedy. So he sent the fast boats That's when him that's when they He was bad enough to take but to cut the Russians off Yeah, I told you. Man, it's amazing to see what You see that plaque? Yeah? This is an old internment My wife's people This is where they were Look at this. It's true the camp And all this is a I guess it's true Them Russians Look at Domion. What a mess. What's up, boss? I've seen atrocities and... just terrible things But in your own backyard, man, it's like you just lose your For me, as jaded it's still hard there's people like and to be honest I got a feeling That's horrific. Seeing something like You can say that again. No, someone on the inside Look, yes it was necessary. The owner of the store, he shine You make mistake, If police start looking in my We're fine. Plus, look on You will see that they Yes, I'm a little bit of a poet. Okay. No problem. I take care of it. Yeah, Kane, I appreciate the but this really wasn't Really? Do I look like about the direction Why you think I'm gonna care You're going Well, where are - Going into town. I got some things to do, and when I'm done with that, I'm gonna take you back Anything I can help with? No. C'mon, Kane. Look, You already got me feeding maybe it's time we take it Right now, to me you ain't - CI? And you know what? You prove yourself to me, then I'm gonna start Until then, man, Just need you to provide me I'm straightening my I'm telling you, Kane, Let me ask you something. How's it going at I'll be showing up. I'll be showing up early You know, few minutes early, Now that's strange because they called me up and - I didn't show up? - He told you that? Listen, I just need to rethink my Really. There's something The only reason why I got you your mother was a friend man, look out for my boy. So you are sure that are from the same crew, right? Bet my shield Actually, I kind of got into it - Messed him up pretty good. Yeah, I tossed him up You know, sometimes and other times you're Gates. Gates? Next time you come by here do you wanna leave your We don't like uniforms It defeats the purpose - Whatever. Whatev-- whatever. Boss, just so you know, posted before anyone had And Juliet and I are already You got them working on it, huh? I'll watch your back Don't worry about it, unless I'm just saying. Hello, Elijah. Pretty young lady, Since you wouldn't answer I thought I would That was very nice of you. It was nothing personal, It's kind of an We've got murders and kidnappers Yeah, but I called Wow, she looks like trouble. That the scent of Jealousy, no. Concern, maybe. She got that mad dog Yeah, like I said. Jealousy. You sure that's me? Sarah, you smell that? - Uh, yeah. That's the scent Smell of a little boy Hey, keep your minds out of the Jeez, Mason. You're starting him every day, you know that? Really? You think so? Easy, Mase. Sounding like are two different things, You're a funny guy, Radner. Talk to me, Kane. Man, I think the markings are the same as the ones So what does that mean? It means it's the Russians they're trying to get on land. They're trying to switch Oh, so that's who's That's my opinion. Well, I'm just on my way I'll ask them what Do me a favor, play your cards real close I don't want them knowing Look, I need this When I say stopped, From the top guy down. I understand that. What I'm gonna try to do is get of this whole, and see if I can hit Give yourself some support. I just think we gotta be really I mean, most of those guys in that didn't make detective. They're like glorified meter And I just don't want all this Let me put it this way, Kane. You got two days This thing isn't tied up by I'm gonna assign every broken to your task force. I believe that you would I'm only partly joking, Kane. I need you to find the people It's all over the news, and I don't I think we're gonna Just give me a minute, man, Great. Thanks, Kane. All right, what's up? You're gonna love this. We need a bait car, right? Something nice. And this little beauty just It's nice. Nice ride. Aw, man. NARCO already Well, that's a shame. See, 'cause now that's You know if we take this, Oh, man. You really worried I never said that. Come on, just sit in it. Come on. It's nice. All right, Keys are in it. Radner, what are you doing? The right thing, man. Now, you're probably because you're about to become Why you always do this Are you Yeah, the rest of tow truck storage Anything I can help you with? Yeah. We need to know if on those carjacking cases. I didn't know SIU messed We mess with A lot of things. Wow. I bet you do. Hey, what're you packing? - Glock 40. Wow. Are we issuing those It's mine. They just authorized Depends what you like. Some of the older guys, Yeah, you like that better? Holds more rounds in the clip. I like to have firepower on Yeah. Firepower. I like that. All right, so about What do you need to know? Got any idea who's behind it? We're still working it up. But we suspect a group of guys They hang out at a Got a name? James. Of the club, silly. I don't think that's meant Do we look like the public? Well, of course not. But I can't give you guys Well, it looks like we should come back Hey, come on. It's not about what I want. No? That's all right. We'll just come back Well, no need to be a bitch. Hey, Blondie. Why don't you give me and you and I can hang Uh, how 'bout this. Instead of me giving why don't you give me so when I don't call you won't feel like Really thought you took a shine Are you kidding me? He's like I had to deal with Now we'll have to go to a No. Not necessary. The club It was on the file Nicely done. Hey, Boss. Kane. Hey. How are you? You okay? No, I am not okay. The wife served Can you believe it? It's a occupational Seems like all us cops, man. We can never get that part Yeah, I'm just worried - This program's gonna kill me. Because at least three Very funny. So talk to me straight, Kane. DEA wanna share info, but they That's wonderful. Fair enough. I think they just wanna toss in if you get any product. I don't care I care about the bad guys. with any intel. Well, there's not much and known hangouts. Nothing earth shattering there. Hey, you never know All right. Hey, I'm just saying. That car deserves You should have Gimmie a break, man. What're you two - Mase says I dress bad. He could use a makeover. A makeover? Come on. I've seen worse. All right, man. Nothing earth shattering. Some possible and some new addresses, Well, it's pretty We did get a new name from a Nikoli Putin. Apparently he worked for the He quickly discovered is much more profitable They also say that the murders in retaliation, but I'm Any luck on this Yeah. They've been watching So anybody looking for a stolen Well, I'll start to put that right away for you all. Actually, Chief, we were thinking we'd work With one of us? No. Sarah and I Well, I'm kind of old fashioned, so if you all wanna do that, I'll let I got a pair of eyes on Yeah, I got the eye, boss. It's a nightclub. You don't have You're not coming Just got a little personal and then I'll catch Thanks, Chief. Boss, this about that girlfriend 'Cause I mean, if that's a You don't want You don't ever want Yo, Radner, you got a sec? Yeah, what's up? Hey, bro. I was just wondering if you could put a good word About what? Making a little room for me on Could spend some quality time with Sporty Spice Show her what's what, Yeah. She's doing fine. All right, well look. watching your six than some I'd take her over Hey, I'm just saying, man. When it hits the fan and it gets and you got a little girl you're going to be What was that all about? He wants Sarah's job. Are you serious? Yeah, I don't think he's been Girls in place. Copy that. All right, keep I'm afraid she's gonna try to Will do. Please. Champagne. Why, thank you. Well, pretty girls should in the presence of so many Why not? Nikoli. I'm Kathy. This is Sandy. Kathy. Sandy. It's so nice to see your Can't get any easier Nikoli just sat down Maybe these girls are gonna Okay, I'm picking up a white He's not the kind of guy that's You want me to check it out? No, no, no. Let's just watch and see So, what line of - Take a guess. No. I'm thinking it's Keep going. I like this game. Well, you're wearing a $20,000 so that means whatever you do, Women have diamond earrings, All men have to show they have Well I'm thinking Probably high end stuff. - Am I right? I'm import/export specialist. My clients are some of Wow, you're a Da. You two are quite a pair. You're simple, Perfect combination I'll take that as a compliment. You should. Okay. You wanna guess what Why not? Okay, give it your best shot. You two are opposites, so I am thinking that And you, you scan the so I am thinking that How do you know I'm not just Maybe. No, go on. You're doing You spotted my security and you pulled up in late and no personality. And what's that No bumper stickers, You looked inside our car? Look, we're just a couple looking to have a good time. Well please don't be upset. I'm simply trying to make what my new friends Okay, so make the guess and Okay. I am guessing Right? That's right. We're narcs. Sarcastic. But I am thinking Your plates on your car Police are run by governments. Bean counters always looking They don't register undercover so they don't have Wow. You sure you're not a cop? Pretty impressive, huh? In radio store they to detect radio transmission. If someone tries to send little box puts out white noise. Little box started putting out when that man in back But when you two beautiful little box started Well, Nikoli, you're Way too paranoid. Did I say something No, it's just time Thanks for the drinks. You're angry. At least let me pay for drinks. It the least I can do for two Let's go. All right, Radner. I'll pick up Mason when Copy. We totally misjudged this guy. You sure you're not just being Believe me, we're sure. We gotta figure out a better Did anybody get a look at any No. It was just Nikoli That doesn't really tell us Was there any pattern to the Well, they usually come between Victims are mostly women. And they'll shoot if Between ten and midnight? That's the PM shift change Smart guys. So they wait until We need to rip one of these guys Build a good enough case But how are we gonna do that? A little bit of decoy work. Who's driving? I think what we gotta do is, get the newbie to jump up Good luck, newbie. All right, listen here, Don't stop nobody that's gonna Don't stop nobody something that you We don't need like, you know, sex crimes or sex offenders You know what we're looking for. We're looking for carjackers. Keep your eyes open, Pretty quiet out here No, nothing yet. I'm heading east now. - Sarah? Good luck. You on scene, boss? Right, I'm in position East 56th. Got a couple Roll the window down Make it happen. Radner, you do that, we end up instead of the guys Here we go. Here we go. They're taking a pass. Boss should've sent I'll find one. Nikoli's on the move. Mason, Radner, then fall back. Copy that. Mason can handle this on this Radner, stay on course. Radner? There's no way to cover this Juliet, pick up on Find out where they're headed. Copy. Kane, I lost her. Kane, you copying this? I'm fine. Put it in park, bitch! Gimmie the key, bitch! - You all right? Armed robbery, and reckless endangerment. You're on parole, Talking about probably Now if you'd be willing to tell I might be able to make No problem. I don't owe him squat. I kinda had a feeling you might All right. Why don't they ever You ain't Kane. So what do you think? Her name is Sarah. And what is it with you Just 'cause she's got a nice Whoa, whoa. - Do I? And you're right. She might be she's definitely good She did good, huh? She ain't as good as you. Of course. She ain't me. Yeah. There's a shipment coming in That's why they're meeting at I need real good specifics, There's a warehouse I don't know how It's enough that they wanted But since we took you down, so he knows you're burned. No, no, he's a crafty Russian. There are five of us First two back in get paid. The man's desperate to move and he's gonna take some Once the product's loaded We each get a map. In five or eight hours, And what happens to those poor I don't know. Yeah, until you met me. Hey, dispatch said you Yeah. Guy's in All right. Hey, Chief, - Yeah. So this woman keeps coming down Says she wants to file Let me guess. Sure thing. She's a real looker. If you don't mind my asking, She don't have a heart, With a body like that, who cares You know what I'm saying? Do me a favor. Next time she give her a little bit take her statement, that'll go a long way, that'll help me out Yeah, sure thing, sir. I'll get right on that. I'll appreciate that. What was that all about? About your girlfriend. Girlfriend? All right, heads up, everybody. These boys are prone to sneak All right, it's going Hey! Put your hands up! Mason, I got Nikoli! Drop your weapons! Freeze! Get on the ground! Put your weapons down Get down now! You guys good? Yeah. We're good. How do you say &quot;ass&quot; Come in. Come on in. Come on in, y'all. Come and sit down. So, you got something That gun Nikoli pulled on you That's what I'm talkin' 'bout. We got a match on So, Janko's good for Nikoli for the Camp Harmony job, and his drug pipeline has been Not a bad resolution, Chief. See, my daddy used to say eat a piece of corn We all got lucky. That's good Go work y'all. What happened to your head? Newbie can't keep Oh, give me a break. You wish. Well, it looks like the newbie All right, everybody happy? Watch it. Good stuff. Cool. Whoa, God! Everytime I come to see Elijah, Do you really think that your Why don't you just Hey! Did you know that That ain't right. Gates, what's I told you to act right. Chief, don't worry about it. Okay, know what? Now I'm filing a What, your withdrawing... Oh! ...you're filing one on me? You know that girl is I mean, she needs therapy. Yeah, I know. But see, Look what I got over there. That oughta get rid of her, - I think so. The man is unbelievable.