Over the years, app While this has made them super easy lots of people like the personality So today I'm going to redesign to be totally overcomplicated, and at the end you can decide to keep toning down their designs Welcome back to Fix the World. Let's kick things off with Instagram. Now honestly, I do think this gradient And this is of course a simplified version To start I'm In order to do that, we need to know And the answer to Instagram's which was a pretty blatant rip which was a very popular instant camera, And you can see and a few of the different elements, but other parts of it don't quite match up And if you ask me, this looks camera, which notably has the leather That's just the little piece of glass But even compared to this, there's some Like they kind of swapped And obviously lots of the details, like the dials and the flash So with all that in mind, We want all those grooves so you'll be able to see them Then we can grab a metal texture But you know already looking at that, Like I said, I do really like this We don't have to go that extreme, Same with the leather. Let's pop some color into that as well. It doesn't look super awesome yet. I just want to jam and then we can worry That being said, I do want to add Just a nice little way You can see the little gap I do like that, let's try to replicate it. By just moving this down. And while we're at it, we'll add Now let's try to find a camera Shrink that down to size. And it is really hot in here. I need to change my shirt. Okay, this is a decent start, that's around the lens. Maybe just something simple like Let's cut it out real quick. We'll get our other lens on top Then actually, let's just take I'll cut that out Then honestly, Let's get all these little buttons Try to line things up a little nicely. And we got to pay respects Let's keep that rainbow stripe going. Get some rectangles in here Boom bop bam Pow. And actually, I think it will work better And that texture Maybe we'll zoom it back out a little. Let's add the nice shadow back in there. And those rectangles aren't popping out Let's try the other blend modes. Eh that's fine. Let's try to make these little elements My idea for that is we'll cut out What we can do is just add a Bevel We want it to be going inwards. Do that on the viewfinder as well. Maybe set it in a little deeper. That's trippy. Now this is kind of hard to implement, but I think this curve right here And that'd be a super good addition So I'll put that right on top like so. And now that we kind of got that shape in mind, let's try to copy it Cut it out just like this. And we can put that Very cool. I'm not in love Try shifting I kind of like this little floating screw Let's just get that in here. Now, we definitely need to do some more Let's do a little shadow from the lens, That actually works pretty well. Back on the metal. And let's just apply some nice Starting with a nice shadow. And I know I'm all over the place here, but let's actually cut out around Just a nice little cutout to help the lens Oh, I almost forgot. We really gotta add this Insta text I almost imagine that as, like, I don't know if that physically but let's just try it out. Shrink that down nice and small, We'll get our own text in here. Try to match that as much as possible. Anyway, I'll try to clean this up a little But no matter what you think about it, So I call that a success. And of course, And if you ask me, You can see But it's kind of weird Like that was kind of totally unnecessary. So instead and we'll of course Got to be sure it's just as vibrant. Two circles, one smaller. This one is not filled in, I don't know, man. I don't know what else you can ask for That's just about the only way so simple. I love how it doesn't That is kind of sick. I think doing this has already made me appreciate this style Like something about this Like I almost want to eat it. Let me know if your team's simple I'm honestly pretty split. Cool, now moving This can be either Google Maps or Apple We of course, just got to make Let's drop some nice texture in here. We want to be sure to include That's really nice. I especially like that fold on the corner, some of these parts together We'll do a little bit of warping . . and good. Then there's nothing more "maps" So we'll just do a little trail of strokes just a little bit of those highlights And we'll switch to red Not gonna lie I actually think that looks For being overly complicated, I think that Cool. Then moving on to the simple design. So since most people use Google this one, meaning An obvious fix for the Google one specifically but thinking about what people where you're at or where a location Apple's shows this a little better What are the two Going straight and turning right. Let's get a rectangle in here. Same sort of thing as the Instagram one where it's got the stroke We want to round that corner That is aggressively simple. That's crazy. Now, if we wanted to make we could still do those Google colors But I'm delivering what I promised. Oversimplified. There you go again. It's totally debatable, but at least for All right, moving on. We got the most popular music Now, the right thing to assume is that emitting in this circle. so I was looking up And they say "the circle symbolizes of community in infinite connectivity." It's just lines, come on. Now I'll be real, that did a similar video, He also redesigned Spotify Go check his video out. It's pretty cool, I'm doing my own thing. He ended up going for a radio theme, but I'm actually getting These lines on the circle are kind of so I think we should put and we'll figure out what to do Obviously, records come in the black color but all the time they make totally unique From what I understand, and then kind of just arrange them And then when they press the vinyl to get all the little grooves, they end up I don't know, it's Let's get a blank label try to match that Spotify green It's a little more on the blue side, Then yeah, of course view of a turntable like this I don't know the difference. Let's drop that in the background. I want to line up the shine So we'll rotate this just like they do. Then of course we want So let's outline this real quick. I don't want the app to I want it to look more like So that means we have to line And I actually don't even want I'm realizing. So let's cut that out real quick. Let's get our old friend Maybe metal is not accurate, scratch things up or something, Not my problem. I'm not worrying about it. And I kind of want to round the edges. It's got a nice wood texture. Something like this feels right. Okay, we definitely need a knob Let's just shrink that down a little. Give it a little more room to breathe. Okay the knob should probably go I think it should probably be silver And it obviously needs a shadow. Which, since it's top down, it's going to Shrink that down I'm actually just going to copy I think that worked out nice and clean. Ooh, we need a light. Of course, being green. Put that little dot right down here. It's got a glow on it to pop out Then yeah, kind of like I was saying if I can make those stripes Okay. We need to trace Then we can move it over- Budget Spotify. That's awesome. We'll do a version with How about that? Next, for the simple design, it is really annoying And if we are thinking about this as a vinyl record, Going like right through the middle Instead, So let's get a circle to start. We'll get a triangle that's going to be pointing directly And if we take the intersection I'm actually going to do the same thing as the Instagram design So we'll do a green background Then we can like punch a hole Then we'll repeat that process again. And one final circle. And with the collection we can do one last hole punch And that is basically just the Wi-Fi logo. Dang it. Okay, whatever. At least it's evenly spaced. Ooh, actually, I had a better idea. You see what I'm going for, though? Where it's like the shiny part of the I don't know, I'm sticking with this guy. There you go. Spotify Simple version. Complicated version. I don't know. Let me know what you guys think. Nice. These designs are looking pretty solid But first I'm going to lay back Introducing the Sihoo Doro S100, aka I spend a lot of time at my desk and basically anything else, an uncomfortable chair, Having good ergonomic is super important and this chair has all the support You can adjust the height, armrests, Thanks to those adjustments, 5 foot to 5'11" And even though I'm a It still keeps me comfortable The dual dynamic lumbar thanks to these four omni comfortable, upright, reclined, You're free to recline up to 135 degrees, for me to be able to chill out. And honestly, it kind of just looks cool. Like check it out to get your own. Sihoo Doro S100 chair, Click and use my code to get an extra 6% off Anyway, next on the list This is, of course, the most popular being the main way to Google stuff Anyway with a name like Chrome, it there's going to be some sort of chrome So that's going to be First, Now the Google Chrome logo like the mechanism but apparently Yeah, look at that. And let's get our metal texture Put it at the right spot. And we'll do that That already looks kind of sick, honestly, some of the color back The luminosity blend mode just takes into At least from what I understand, And for the center, I actually want Whoa, that's crazy looking. Of course let's shift that over to blue. And now I'll just add some basic shading to all of it, Okay, this is actually going I think that is so edgy and crazy. But I got one more idea. I just want to kind of crazy I don't know what that necessarily means. Yeah, just something like this. There Super complicated. Moving on to our simple design, I'm going We'll get a little shadow Now that compass idea I was talking about It's like you're using it because it's so fun and scary. But I don't know, I feel like "search" And of course, the universal symbol So let's try to make one of those. Pretty simple, That looks actually perfect. And I guess we can just experiment Maybe go for that classic Google blue. I know it seems like into the detailed ones but it's like, What else am I supposed to do? Oh, I got an idea for one detail to add. We'll just get a little shape Just being a nice little shine. I think that's it. Google Chrome. I mean, the detailed one definitely is just a tool Cool. Then coming up we have an app But first I got a quick BONUS APP. This being the weather app. Now you might be wondering why do I count weather as a bonus app And that's just because my ideas To start off, I'm actually going to do the simple one first, We'll rotate it so that the brightness And we're of course just going to make Maybe we could do a nice little like uh.. like this? We'll give it a little bit of a shadow, No sun, only cloud. Nice. Then for the complicated one, I'm taking inspiration from what you get Depending on the actual weather in your area, it's going to show it in Like if it's sunny, it's If it's nighttime, And if it's raining or snowing, So I just want it to do But just on this little tiny Like totally realistic and everything. It'll be animated. It's genius, I know. Thank you, thank you. Here's Honestly, And of course, that finally brings us You gotta love it. I'm making stuff for it right now, Now this shape is of course derived from which is supposed to mimic the look of a And they showed that off pretty solid. I say we just update this one to look more We want to keep the old TV aesthetic, We'll start with something like this. But let's cut out just this rectangle. Then I think we should try to maintain So let's make that nice and big, Let's just grab these corners, What's that look like? Not great. Okay. Never mind. Let's get a nice wood frame, Let me look at one of those references Yeah. Let's take those dials We'll just rotate that whole thing, maybe maybe our background can just be a nice Which in reality would be a little We're going to mess with this wood frame console bit we have. Just something simple like that. Maybe we can boost the brightness Then, of course, you're all wondering what We don't want to just keep it By default, we're going to essentially So let's get that red and overlay Bring back another white triangle. Nice and big right in the center. There you go. Oh maybe we get like a nice glow around Cool. Then like I said this is the default way But once you start and getting subscribed And whenever someone your subscribed to post a new video, So say you're a wonderful Oats And I just posted a new video My channel icon will appear inside Come on, you gotta admit, Again, just giving these icons a little Then last but not least, we've got to make You probably know Same sort of thing as the Instagram one. Red icon, white triangle. Okay, it won't be quite that boring. Just hold on a minute. Of course we want to give it which we can do with some shading. So we'll start with an overall shadow Then within this triangle we're going to get a shadow We'll make it nice and soft I don't know I think today's episode I genuinely do really like a lot of these, I've got to go to Instagram. And for the tradition, I'm actually going And I want to hear from you guys on this one. Personally, I'm going team complicated Anyway, for next episode, Let's make even more emoji. I had a bunch of fun with those ones, and it seems like Just leave a comment for any emoji ideas I see those suggestions easier Thank you guys for the support. But let me know where it's kind of a battle between Subscribe-