[Music] Would you like to hear a terrifying story of to a human? The barbaric and gruesome tale worse than the creation of the Stalkers in the into mindless machines for their masters. body horror and pain. The perfect series there was a fate worse than death that the put themselves into a situation that could put that they could save humanity in the process. terrifying? And is it really Here, we explore the lore and Out in the vast universe, The Strogg Empire cybernetic species came from the barren wasteland resources, and wildlife corrupted by the fumes The Strogg were a species of war, and due to their exploration of the many fields teleportation technology, and most importantly, in order to become stronger. This was not a want to encounter. They had just one goal, to The Strogg were led by their supreme leader, focused on biological research and technology, and life for their advancement, The Makron's orders orders could not be disobeyed. From this Nexus, and thus, they were given information about the made The Strogg a devastating foe to encounter. humanity. At first, during this invasion, their planet for their natural resources, alien invaders had actually come for them. Earth and Stroggos that would last for many lives on both sides. In the first conflict, with their advanced technologies, and with Although in a weakened state, Earth chose to the possibility of a future invasion. This first the Strogg captured more prisoners. yet the horror of this story lays in what The Strogg scientists had developed an inhumane, every biological organism they encountered, enough to be captured by this brutal species would The Strogg were not a typical species. Every in the many wars they began. Despite this, They made use of the biological components of of Earth arrived at Stroggos to wipe out of what had happened to the humans that While humanity buried their dead, the Strogg to improve themselves, regardless of the of biological component to run. Human torsos or helped run some sort of Strogg structure. been deemed worthy of the Stroggification parts had been recycled. Nothing went to waste. made aware of Stroggification. It was described as the fallen were fused with metal and machinery Strogg.&quot; Although these units were told of the know just how extreme this procedure was until worth it in order to save the humans back on Upon their capture by The Strogg, a human stripped into their underwear, scanned and the beginning of the Stroggification procedure and On this conveyor belt of chaos, the an assembly line for the Strogg scientists process. The worst part about this was that they saw what was just about to happen to them as The Strogg needed their captives to survive to inject steroids, and a nanite colony into this boosted their heart and lungs' natural injection also came in the form of a large needle, ounce of agony. If required, the scientist on this manually begin the process of facial mutilation. continued on and as the prisoner lay there, all they could see was the splatter of blood and surely, they would not be The Strogg required resilient warriors to fight did have a strong combat ability, but their flesh was subjected to a well-used saw blade, and their wood. It was often that the convert passed out alive as their heart beat faster and faster. into and fused with the raw leg stumps. protective metal plates were installed directly their lower face, chest, arms, hands, and Although this augmentation of course would in a way, had improved the human. They were The human convert was almost complete at this were done, their minds were not. On the next subjected to a large hypodermic needle. the cerebellum, a neurocyte was implanted. responsibilities of the human body. The neurocyte of the brain, and as a result, the entire human the heart of The Strogg, and with this with information and given access to Strogg only had access to their technology, and Having been subjected to the physical this new Strogg was placed into a tank a new device that required activation before use. registration centre. It should be noted that at thoughts, desires and hopes of escape. However, their neurocyte was activated, and The All of their basic drives, dreams, and feelings controlled this unit, and they followed the orders The Stroggification process was essential army. The process itself was not this was not a huge issue for the Strogg. Some of these humans were claimed by Strogg their war machine. These experiments and they were as awful as the name sounds. awful treatment. Their organs were removed without of the victim, how much pain it could tolerate, why torsos and heads lined the walls, and were For the biological parts that were deemed recycled into a biofuel called stroyent. The needed something to sustain them, heal them, run and various other needs across Stroggos. many stroyent factories were set up across up on the worlds that The Strogg had assaulted. constructed for the Stroggification process. dropped onto conveyor belts to begin the the victims of the mortality tests were dropped or simply incapable of helping themselves. continued on through this line, they were chopped were then collected, and treated with chemicals to that raw stroyent was fed to a large creature, Having been force-fed this substance, a reaction creature's stomach and digestive system, and Whether a similar process occurred on Earth, Nothing went to waste. A human captive experimented on to turn them into a new The process of Stroggification was a terrifying Humanity had lost a lot of their own to the the risk was worth it. Yet, it was This version of Stroggification only happened to Strogg Empire was looked at as a whole, there are This awful process was not just limited to During the second Invasion of Stroggos, there Stroggification procedure, Corporal Matthew and saw blades. To his luck, Kane was rescued by He looked just like a Strogg, but he still His neurocyte did however offer him Strogg stroyent medicine and teleportation technology. human form helped the Space Marine Corps in their Nexus. The Stroggification process had affected there in the universe. Only this time, it had from the overwhelming orders of The Nexus. The Strogg that remain are alone. Left only Stroggification process had normally brought Corporal Matthew Kane, it gave humanity I have wanted to jump into Quake lore for and with the Stalker videos, and Jeff video seemed to be the perfect opportunity to bring worse than Stalker-ification. If you have video here for you. If you are a Quake fan, it I will say, Quake 1 is my favourite game in with the final boss too. Over the next few to this channel. Please let me know if you have took a lot of restraint to limit this topic is so much in this universe to cover. The Strogg war on Stroggos and the second war. This is going If you cannot tell, Halloween is my favourite and the best games have Horror elements. This was everything I wanted to cover this you liked it, dislike the video if you did not. how you felt about it. If you really liked then please hit that subscribe button and let share this with another Quake fan. incredible Gold Tier Patrons and Channel types of videos a little early. Jonas, Lewis, Ruben Mendoza, Duke, Toadnut, AuronX, Comfy, BGgames, Aprofis and Arnis! there a fate worse than Stroggification, This is where our story ends.