Hello Brains, October is ADHD Awareness Month about why stimulant medication and hopefully break down some Stimulant medication is considered a first-line medication to treat their ADHD they often feel It was weird for me to even take my medication on camera and Stigma. According to Cambridge Dictionary &quot;Stigma is ...in a society have about something especially And there is an intense stigma against stimulant medication. In the media and on social media we're bombarded with misleading and shame inducing messages. When we think about methamphetamine, think about Adderall, Adderall as the detention deficit Same drug, nobody's talking about- - It's not the same drug- To, &quot;it's the same thing as cocaine.&quot; They can't eat, they can't sleep, and they're not getting better. Isn't that in itself a symptom of taking To, it's a replacement for discipline or parenting. - Buckley could benefit from a little discipline. Don't worry I'm not suggesting actual parenting. To it turns people into zombies. To it's a last resort, something We get these messages from documentaries, social media Some of these messages are intentionally sensationalized There are cardiovascular risks, psychotic episode, What's the cost of that? And is that a cost Some are meant to sell us alternatives. Today I'm going to supplements, natural treatments, and essential oils Some are just meant to make us laugh. Any of you guys currently on Adderall And some are genuinely meant to be helpful. I once had a total stranger walk up to me in a store and tell me how he managed his ADHD without medication and I could too. As if that's how you win at ADHD by not having to We internalized these messages, and the stigma isn't just about the medication. It's also a downplaying or doubting of the condition itself. ADD and ADHD are not real things. What is ADHD? it's just it's impossible. Are they anemic? And do they just need iron that would do it. Are they just bored? Are they over stimulated with their electronic toys? ADHD is often portrayed as Not that big a deal, or as if it doesn't even exist. In other words not deserving of treatment. Given the sheer amount of research that exists on ADHD at this point. It makes sense to be cautious about treatment decisions for any condition. The problem is that the stigma against stimulant medications is so strong that people end up making treatment decisions based on stigma. Rather than what the optimal treatment for them There's even been research done on this, parents will often try ...because of the stigma against stimulants. their own pharmacist said taking their They've had to hide them. One person's dad used to make them hide the One person's mom avoided getting her diagnosed at all because they didn't Even though my mom did choose to treat my ADHD, my dad was opposed to I had a boyfriend once who warned me about even though mine were really mild, he made me feel so I went off of my meds. And over the course of the next two and there are more serious side effects to My personal experience is my personal experience, and She also has ADHD herself and is a pediatrician So I asked her to come share what she shares with her patients about stimulant medication. Hi everyone, as Jessica said I'm Dr. Carolyn Lentzsch-Parcells. I'm a board certified pediatrician here with girls to women and young men's health and wellness in fort worth Texas. So let's address some of the misconceptions, fears, I'm well aware of these but because to be honest I had some of these myself when I was first diagnosed. I refused medication initially. A lot of us feel like we should be able to function without and do the behavioral interventions. And in some circumstances that may be the right And whether it's for ourselves or whether it's for So why do we use medication Well we're still learning about ADHD, but from what we know two of the neurotransmitters in our brain play a pretty And while pills don't build skills, and we skills don't change the dopamine in our brain and the difficulty we have with impulsivity, inattention, focus make it not but it makes it a lot more difficult to access So the medication helps increase the dopamine levels in our our neurons can communicate with each other better, stay on task better, so that They're our gifts to the way our brains work. We see solutions to problems other people It shouldn't change who you are, it shouldn't over those gifts so that you can utilize One of the other misconceptions I hear a lot is that these To be clear, &quot;when stimulant medications are used properly the risk of addiction and habit formation is very low.&quot; On the other hand, people with ADHD do have a higher risk of addiction. The research shows us that people with ADHD, whose ADHD goes untreated, or sub-optimally treated are at significantly higher risk for drug use, drug abuse, and drug dependence. What I see in my own clinic is young people coming To self-medicate for their ADHD but and the anxiety that is developed from their ADHD either And I've got to tell you, trying to help them trying so that we can best manage their ADHD is really hard. We now that optimal treatment of ADHD includes medication. coaching, accommodations in school, leads to: decreased accidents, decreased rates of depression, and now we even have research that shows that optimal not just our mental health. Treating our ADHD keep up with our doctor's appointments, take our Of course we want what's best for our kids is it gonna harm them in the long run? Is it the for them or am I making that choice for me? Is it Or is it because I'm not a good enough parent? If I could just parent them The other thing that I think a lot of people child with ADHD is different than parenting a But there's this sense that we shouldn't need medication or that medication is that judge whatever decisions we make those voices Asking for what you need, asking for what your child needs, It's taking care of ourselves and it's taking care of them. And you should never be ashamed for that. I personally believe that people should do what makes sense for them and their situation. A lot of people in the ADHD community don't use medication some take non-stimulant medication but before or adding to the stigma. I encourage you to educate I'm grateful that my mom made the decision to It made a huge difference and I'm grateful to Dr. Carolyn Lentzsch-Parcells for coming to talk with everyone. I lost my mom recently and I'm making this video in the that she had to face. If you want to help break the please share this video or your own story because I think it's important that we If you want to learn more about parenting complex kids next week we'll be Thank you to my brain we've been able to bring on produce more content and do more advocacy work If you found this video helpful like subscribe click all the things and do