<<Units of the 14th and 92nd and the 103rd Territorial Defense Brigade were struck by Russian artillery of the Western Military District in In addition, a Ukrainian sabotage The total losses of the 50 fascists, a tank, and two Who are they hoping to deceive with this? The direction of Kupiansk And they're boasting about Enough. I can't listen to this anymore. I'm done. POSITION UKRAINE Hello, Yura. I'm busy I'll show them around and I'll Yes, yes, I have to show them. They all came here at the same I'll get back to you when I'm done here. - Beautiful, isn't it? - Good day. How are you doing? - Here's the thing. We're lucky the enemy has trouble aiming their guns properly. That's the boiler room. It works today. That's the garage. It was hit by a missile, but that does not affect the operation - We want you to tell us what and what we can do to support you. - Serhii Volodymyrovych will tell you. - I have to go to Kupiansk, - Okay. - We'll be in touch? - Good. - Take care. See you soon. Right now, I'm the acting head of the Kupiansk District The Kupiansk district was liberated It was a difficult time, the most important thing was for us to Ukrainian government was back, The Ukrainian flag was back, and we were ready to help people, to provide them with Unfortunately, Kupiansk remains the only district in the Kharkiv region As soon as the enemy was driven back, literally two or three days later, they started shelling the They just targeted them at random. We arrived in Kupiansk The city was in good shape. The damage was minimal. You'll see how things have I'm going to show you the aftermath. Our motor transport college Soon, there will be hardly any left in Kupiansk that aren't Incidentally, workers were just to install OSB boards instead Literally half an hour They were lucky. This was all intact when we We held meetings in that building. We met on Monday morning, and It was a nice place, very comfortable. Good day. I had Vysotskyi's portrait - It fell! - They took it down, by the way. - Yes, they took it and And put up their - Well, we don't know who they were. - It's safer over there, in the garage. - Yeah, about textbooks, I think We keep souvenirs here, you see. We found this piece of - They gave them out to - There's more. See? Alphabet books, textbooks for the first-graders. There! A History of Russia, 7th, 8th, 10th grade. We've got many souvenirs like these. A freight train with firewood's just come. It was sent by our regional Now, we have to unload the Most likely, someone from Vilkhuvatka community is a They will come and take away the firewood. Vlkhuvatka community is in the north. It shares a border with Mordor. The mud here is something else. I drive around the local I talk to people to see what in terms of humanitarian aid, critical infrastructure, and so on. That way, we can address I meet people in person to get an idea of how things really are, to be able to address and find more efficient Because there are problems. You know, I feel like I have to do it. I'm not talking about motivation here. There's just this feeling that our are going through this very difficult time, and I simply can't imagine When you see this every But it's always there. make things better just like that, in a blink of an eye, but I can't. The debris can't be because people still while others are empty. Hello! Hello! They also came here, asking for milk. It was summer. There He had a gun here. <<Give us milk>>, he says, <<while we're Another one had a Volga What does a yellow circle stand for? He barged in. Didn't even say anything. What could I do about it? What could I do? - Shall we go for a walk? - How about we drive? It's freezing. - Get in my car. Let's keep yours clean. That's our farm. - Where do you get the jars from? - Poltava. There was a direct hit. The rake is toast. I now have 1,700 head in total. - What about the 1,000? - The 1,000 head, what are they? - Well, livestock, heifers, baby calves, etc. Have you seen a calf? Never? We couldn't even feed them We didn't have power for more than a no heating either, but it We've got a machine here. and it knows how much milk each calf They must be fed. And what The calves need at least All right. Thanks for the update. We'll keep in touch. Goodbye. Kolodiazhne has power now. Power supply has been restored in Kolodiazhne, Dvorichna community. - It's close to the border, isn't it? - Well, yes. They did it. - Let's go. It's freezing. &lt;i&gt;<<I dreamt of ripe cherries&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;August air smelling of honey.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I'm back home.>>&lt;/i&gt;