Zodiac It's human nature to want to solve complicated But sometimes there are questions that just people's lives in northern California during He called himself Zodiac, and nobody ever wasn't for lack of trying. The case inspired quite a few sleuths, and never give up until they looked the killer That's where David Fincher's Zodiac comes It's a study of obsession -- on what happens at his mind. &quot;You got 4 crime scenes, not a single usable You can't think of this case in normal police The movie follows a trio of heroes -- a detective by Robert Downey Jr., and a cartoonist played serial killer. Zodiac is about the never-ending search and to obsession. Granted, if you're looking for a gorefest, This is a story about chasing after shadows know all the answers. Looper Time travel is a common trope in science fiction. It's used so often that it can get pretty any film fan. Written and directed by Rian Johnson, Looper to focus on how violence only begets violence generations. In this universe, gangsters from 2074 send disposed of by hit men like Young Joe, played It's a lucrative job, but as part of the deal, self to &quot;close his loop.&quot; Only, &quot;Old Joe&quot; Bruce Willis isn't going to own life. This kicks off a film about a guy literally &quot;You done all this already? As me?&quot; &quot;I don't want to talk about time travel. Because if we start talking about it, then it, making diagrams with straws.&quot; The more Young Joe learns, the more he gets In a medium that often glorifies brute force, for understandable reasons -- doesn't solve From Metropolis to Her, science fiction movies relationship with technology, often reflecting After all, technology's constantly evolving, drawbacks. Nowhere is that more evident than in Alex &quot;Are you attracted to me?&quot; &quot;What?&quot; &quot;Are you attracted to me? You give me Indications that you are.&quot; &quot;I do?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; The story centers on a young programmer named days working with Nathan, a wealthy super When Caleb shows up at Nathan's secluded cabin, test, tasked with interviewing a beautiful Caleb soon develops a crush on the imprisoned as a creator god. As for Ava, she just wants to be free. This brilliant film grapples with the ethical treat artificial intelligence, and it also of surveillance. But there's something else going on in Ex study about the different ways men objectify By the end of the movie, you might start questioning along the way that will leave you thinking Whiplash If we know one thing for sure about Damien some jazz music. For proof, look no further than Whiplash, The movie stars Miles Teller as an ambitious hoping to join a prestigious band at the music But if he wants to make the cut, first he instrument-throwing conductor played by J.K. This is not a man who's easily impressed. Driven by his need for perfection, Andrew world's best jazz drummer, practicing so hard Meanwhile, he burns every bridge and ruins his goal of greatness. Andrew only grows more and more obsessed with Rich. Sure, he's becoming a horrible person, but of jazz music. That's why Whiplash is such a fascinating It's all about the price of success -- similar that while you might become the greatest drummer fans than friends. The Invitation There are a lot of great movies out there by the Sea. But the scariest might be Karyn Kusama's The This is the ultimate dinner party-gone-wrong edge of your seat the entire time, screaming Unfortunately, they won't listen -- because The Invitation follows a guy named Will, played a terrible tragedy that ruined his marriage. Now, he's received an invitation from his a get-together at her Hollywood Hills home. All the old gang's going to be there, and But when he arrives, he feels something is stop talking about the weird cult she's just Or perhaps everything feels off because Will from his past, an event that occurred in this As his emotions come boiling to the top, Will while trying to convince the other guests odd behavior -- that something weird is happening. &quot;You think we're crazy?&quot; &quot;I never said that.&quot; &quot;That's OK. I'm not offended. A lot of people think we're crazy.&quot; It's a nail-biter of a film that deals with And by the way, it ends with one of the creepiest The Babadook Being a parent -- especially a single mom only too well. She was left a widow when her husband was 7-year-old son, Samuel. Amelia and Samuel's relationship is complicated; He screams, cries, and metaphorically suffocates She loves the boy, but she kinda hates him, Just when Amelia reaches the edge of her sanity, This isn't your normal bedtime story, though. Instead, it's a &quot;children's tale&quot; about Mr. bad plans for Amelia and her boy. Soon, our hero sees the spirit lurking in and closer, Amelia's relationship with Samuel &quot;The Babadook did it, mum.&quot; Written and directed by Jennifer Kent, this fright flick. In fact, William Friedkin, director of The ever seen. But really, The Babadook feels more like a The movie works on multiple levels, examining and suffering of being a parent. It's a story about battling your demons and well that you'll never truly defeat them. Get Out Warning: the less you know about Get Out, If you want to keep completely spoiler-free, has crafted one of the greatest horror movies expectations and impressed nearly every critic You should also know that Get Out is a movie rednecks, nooses, or burning crosses. Daniel Kaluuya plays Chris Washington, a black by Allison Williams. She wants Chris to meet her parents, but Chris He knows a thing or two about being a black Nevertheless, Chris gives in, and Mom and Many cringey compliments later, we begin to as they seem, and maybe that's true about &quot;Do you find that being African American has world?&quot; We won't give away any more of the plot, but fast. The movie plays out like those horrific conspiracy Baby or The Stepford Wives. With its ever-growing sense of dread, Peele's in the U.S., while also featuring one of cinema's -- to say the least. Thanks for watching! Click the Grunge icon to subscribe to our Plus check out all this cool stuff we know