It's that time of year, isn't it? It's that time of year where we can kiss our savings goodbye. I'm just kidding. I'm. Am I kidding, though? Am I? Today we're doing an Amazon gift guide, and I am so excited to show you what I found on Amazon. I've been working on this for literally four days. I have read thousands of reviews, thousands. And I bought so many things to show you guys. So I'm going to categorize this video so it's really easy for you to shop. We are going to do gifts under $10, $20, $30, $40 and $40 plus. And you can find those chapters down below. If you scroll down to the player, you can see what the chapters are called so that you can shop according to your budget. Okay, if that sounds good to you, then give me a thumbs up and let's go. Let's start with gifts under $10. So these make really, really great stocking stuffers. So look at what I found. How cute is this? This is the cutest little thing. So these are mini beauty blenders. I find these so convenient and handy to have. There are two different types. So there's the rounded little beauty blender. And then there's the flat edge beauty blender. You just put these in water. You open and close them. They're going to expand. I find these little mini guys really good for stippling concealer around the eyes or around the nose. And I find the flat side really good for pressing in powder. If you dampen this and use your powder with a damp sponge, it's actually really nice for setting makeup without it looking chalky or too drying. This guy retails for $7.99 and you get 20 pieces. The next one's only $8 and it's actually the e.l.f. Glow Reviver lip oil. This is a tinted lip oil that's infused with apricot oil. And these are actually so nice. I find a lot of the e.l.f. products to feel actually very high end in their quality, and they're their application. I've done so many tutorials with the e.l.f. products, but they sit at such an incredibly great price point. They're not highly pigmented, they just leave kind of a subtle color to the lip, so they're very easily wearable. You can also get it in a brown or in a mauve color, or you can get it in light pink. These really do come in lots of different shades, but they just give off a sheer wash of color. So I think the red is a really cute idea for a Christmas gift. Now, speaking of a hydrating lip balm, I got to show you these because I just discovered these and I'm actually pretty shocked at the price. So these are $10. They're called the Milk Touch Jelly Fit Tinted Glow Tint Hydrating Lip Balm. So it adds a lot of words. So it's a lot of words. But look at them. They are, adorable. The packaging of this is so cute. This is more of a unique gift than the e.l.f., right? We all know about e.l.f. Everyone has e.l.f. We all can buy it at the drugstore. This is a little bit more unique. This is a Korean brand called Miltouch and their products are actually amazing. They sent me over a PR package with their cushion foundation, which is also incredible. I'm actually doing a video on Cushion Foundation soon, so I'll show it to you. But this is their tinted lip oil and it actually is very pigmented. This releases a lot more color payoff than the e.l.f. one, but it also works as like a little bit of a stain. So when you put it on your lips, you get that color payoff. You get the gloss, but then when you wipe it off, it actually stains a bit. So I'll just show you a few of these colors on my lips so that you get an idea of how they look. So this is 02 peach on top. This one's 04 mute official plum. This one's 05 Apple plum. And this one is 06 Chericious. That's how they want you to pronounce it. Chericious. Moving on. So this is a spa headband. And these are very popular this year. I'm not really sure why I use mine all the time. It's like covered in hair and makeup. I should have washed it for this thing. I'm sorry, but basically this is really good for popping, you know, popping on when you are washing your face or when you're doing your makeup and it's just all over social media. Everyone has this headband. So if you have a beauty lover in your life and they like social media, they'll know immediately what this is because all of the influencers use it. So the great thing about this is it's only $9.99. It's so inexpensive. It's a great little stocking stuffer and you actually get two. And you can choose the color you want. So you can do black and blue, black and green, black and pink. There's like a million color combinations. Oh my gosh. Look how cute this one is. Dark khaki and green I don't need more of these. I don't need it. I'm not shopping for myself. Christmas is not a time for me to shop for myself. I've told myself that, you know, over and over and over again. It's not about me. It's not about me. But yeah, you can choose a really cute little color combo that you think your loved one would like the most, and they're actually going to get you a set of this. If they're a beauty lover, they're definitely going to get you a set of this. The next one isn't very exciting. But I have to show you, because I've been reaching for this all the time. And I actually think it's very convenient, especially if your loved one is a traveler. And that is the Neutrogena all in one makeup removing cleansing wipes. These are fragrance free. I actually featured these in my Travel Essentials video, which were also all Amazon products for the person that travels a lot, and I've been traveling a lot for YouTube this year. Especially, I was just gone on the weekend actually. So yesterday I went to a Scott Barnes masterclass. So Scott Brown is J. Lo's makeup artist. I was there anyways. Too much information. I pop these in my bag because I only brought a carryon. I was only gone for two days and I found them so convenient. I keep these in my purse, you know, to wipe my hands even. I just used it right now to wipe my makeup. I keep these in my travel bag. I use them all the time on the plane when I'm removing makeup. At the end of the day, it's so handy that they're a little. It really is, because you don't have to bring like a whole big puffy makeup wipe with you. You can put them everywhere. And if you have girls, you know, teen girls or whatever, you can split it up and pop a few in one stocking, pop a few in another stocking, and again, I'm sure they're going to use it even if they're taking it to school with them, you know, after gym class or whatever. It's really good. Okay, check these out. I bought these a long time ago. I bought a set of six. I bought this exact set here. They're four inch big hair cloth clips. These are so nice. I've lost a bunch of them. I've given some of them away. I've left some with clients. I put these in my hair kit when I was doing a lot of travel hair for weddings. They hold so much hair and they are super, super, super strong. So the fact that you get six for $8.99 is a really good deal, because one of these at, you know, Walmart or Ulta or Shoppers Drug Mart in my case because I'm Canadian would probably cost that much. You're getting six. And they are actually very, very good quality cloth clips, especially for someone that has long hair. They really do hold up a ton of hair. And again, you can customize the color you want. So if you want all black, you can get all black. You can get some of these kind of muted tones of browns and greens like earthy tones, which is what I'm very attracted to. You can get the hotter tones like the reds, the pinks, the lime greens, the blues. Someone with long hair that likes clips. Again, it's a great stocking stuffer at a really good price, and the last and the $10 and under category is this. So this is similar to this okay. But they are the soft ones. All right. So if you, if you have someone that likes more of like a soft headband over a harder headband, you can get this one. And this comes with these little absorbent wrists which are actually, you know, they seem silly, but it's actually kind of convenient when you are washing your face. You can even wipe your face on this. It's almost like a washcloth in your wrists. Very, very handy. Again, all the influencers have this little headband. I use that all the time when I'm doing makeup tutorials to get my my hair out of my face. $20 and under. Let's go! This is the Vlando Viaggio small jewelry case box. This again is so cute for someone that travels. The quality of this is actually impressively nice when I when I got it from Amazon, I don't know. I didn't think it was going to be that great because right now it's on sale. There's a price drop. It's on sale for $12.99. That's really affordable. And look at how nice it is, you guys. It is so nice. It opens up this way. And then you have your little compartments that open up and you can put your jewelry in there. You could even put your little hair accessories in there. If you're someone that travels a lot, you want to put some elastics and Bobby pins, right? You could put necklaces, bracelets, earrings. It's very handy. Again, you can get it in loads of colors. Okay. This color that I got is gray with a khaki inner. But you can also get it in white. You can get it in black blue. A lot of these are out of stock. So they are very loved. Like look at this 4899 ratings. And it's four and a half star. That's like amazing for that many reviews. So again travel lover I really recommend this. I think it's, I think it's super cute. Okay. I think some of you guys may think this is totally lame, but I'm going to tell you that I love getting socks for Christmas. Every year my husband buys me like comfy warm socks and I love them. I live in Canada. It's freaking cold here. It is so nice. Have nice warm socks and I found these VoJoPi VoJoPi I don't know, five pairs of wool socks for women. Look at guys. These are so so so nice. Like the quality of them. They're super nice and thick. And I love the color story. It's like, oh these are stretchy. These are so nice wool socks. If you live in a cold place I don't know. I think that whoever you're giving it to would love it. Especially as a stocking stuffer. And it's a really good price $9.99 for five. I mean it's pretty darn good. Tell me in the comments if you like getting socks for Christmas or if that's just my thing. You know when you're a kid and someone gives you socks, you're like, are you freaking kidding me? Like you're picking up a thing from one of your family members and you think it's a toy and it's socks and it's so disappointing, but your mom will kill you if you act like you're disappointed after the guest leaves. You know, we've all been there. I feel like we've all been there. We've all been scolded for being disappointed at a present that, like some relative gives us when we're like, eight. Can you? I bet you can relate to that get you, but you can. Maybe this is the gift that will disappoint. But now that I am an old lady and I never leave my home, I would love to get these socks. Moving along. Moving along. Okay, I found so many initial necklaces on Amazon. So many of them are super, super cute. So this one is so nice. It's a little rectangle, right? It's a little rectangle with your initials. You can choose whatever initial you want. You know, it would be really cute if you have like a new mom friend who just had a baby, you could get her babies initial. I have a friend who had a baby named Oliver and she always has like a little "O" around her neck. I just think it's adorable. Or you could get it in that person's name. This one's really, really pretty, right? And this one retails for $9.79. My God, like, you just can't beat that. But then you can also get this one. I really, really like this one. I actually bought this one for myself. I couldn't help it. This one's $9.99 and it is so delicate. That's what I love about it. I've been wearing it all weekend. It is so delicate. It's it's so pretty on your decollete. It's inexpensive and thoughtful and dainty and just. I don't know, I just think it's really pretty. Now, if you like the idea of the initial necklace, but you don't like that one specifically, or this other one that I showed you, that's, you know, the rectangle. If you actually go on to Amazon.com or Amazon.ca, you type in initial necklace. There's so many different options are all at different price points. And again, I just think it's a great gift. It's a really thoughtful gift that I think whoever you give it to is gonna love. And you're not gonna break the bank. Sheet masks. Sheet masks make an amazing gift again. Very trendy. Everyone on social media is talking about and loving this. This one is by Sungboon Editor and it is the deep collagen mask. I've tried loads of sheet masks, so many of them and this one actually is amazing. This brand Sungboon Editor. I actually have all of the different types that they offer that you can get tons of different types. There's a Vita C brightening one, B5 hydrating one. I really like this one, the deep collagen one. So this is really easy to use. You just put it on your skin, right? You place it on, and then they actually recommend that you sleep with it because it takes three hours for it to work. So after three hours, the collagen hydrogel mask sheet is absorbed into the skin, turning transparent. So you'll actually notice that when you put it on your face it's actually white, that after three hours it goes transparent. So you can do it in the evening, right? If you want. If you don't want to sleep with it, leave it on for as long as you can. Then take it off and massage it into the skin. Massage the remnants of what's left over into the skin, or you can sleep with it as long as you can sleep on your back. But this is a really nice, super good quality mask at a great price. It's $19 and you get four of them people in your life that love skincare. They're going to like this a lot. This is very nice. It's actually gone viral on TikTok. Okay, look at this one. This one is so cute. So this is a spoon for stirring tea. It's for a tea lover. So if you have a friend who is a tea lover, you know there are those people in the world. I'm a coffee drinker, but I know a lot of people that love tea. If they are your best friend, you can get them this little spoon and it says, you're my "Bestea." It's so cheesy. But again, I think it's so cute. I just think these little gifts, these little cheesy gifts are adorable. I love opening them. Now the one thing is on the Amazon website, amazon.com. It shows this box, right? It says 7.5in and it shows this box. I did not get a box with it. Okay, so as a heads up, I think you'd have to probably buy a little box or wrap it in tissue or do something cute. It does not come with a box, it just comes in a little plastic thing. You're obviously not going to gift it like that because it looks cheap when it's in this little plastic thing. But as long as you jazz it up, put it in a cute little box, add some tissue. I think it's adorable. I'm excited for the next three. The next three products are all under $20 and they are all Winky Lux products. I think Winky Lux products are amazing gifts, not only because the makeup is really nice, it's a really nice makeup gift that's affordable, but it's so pretty and unique that it makes a cute gift. You know what I mean? If you just buy someone a cream blush, I mean, they're going to like it still. But this is like a it feels more special. So this one's called the cheeky Rose Cream Blush. I've talked about this on my channel a million times. I'm obsessed with this. How beautiful. It's like a little round. I don't know. I love it. I'm like, I just love these little quirky, adorable things. And it's a little rose. How cute. It comes in loads of different colors. So by color, that would suit you know, your friend the best. You have cool pinks for those like fair skinned, cooler toned people you have. Brilliant, which is a peachy coral which is really nice on warm skin. Or people that like more of those orange based chic looks. You also have this one which is crown. Crown is a warm rose. That's the one I got. I find this looks really nice on medium skin tones, or on people that have a little bit of warmth to their skin. There's dodgy, which is a neutral mauve. I think medium, medium tone would be better medium to deep. Instead of really super firm. I feel a little strong on fair skin. And then you have knickers, which is a cool fuchsia. So that one, that cool fuchsia tone is, is nice for people who love pinks. Big hit. Any time anyone sees this, even when I'm doing makeup and I pull it out of my makeup kit, all of my clients are like, what is that? And those are the gifts that are good to gift those. What is that gift? You know? Now, Winky Lux also has a couple of other really cute things. So this is so cute. This is a pH flower lip balm. It comes in this adorable little bullet and you open it up. And when you twist it up, there is actually a gorgeous little teeny flower. How cute. So the way that these pH balms work is basically it changes colors on your lips depending on your pH level. So it's going to look a little bit different on your friend than it is on you. But to be completely honest, I find that that's a bit of a gimmick. Okay, see, it even says here, "pH matching technology that glides on clear and merges with your skin's peace levels to create the perfect shade." I've never seen a pH lip balm that didn't look exactly the same on everyone, and the color is always pink. Okay, so it's going to look like a very subtle soft pink. It's going to go on clear. You're going to wait a few minutes and it's going to transform into a really subtle soft pink. Regardless of that, whether it's a gimmick or not, it's actually very, very pretty. It smells amazing. Super cute gift and very easy to wear. Now another really pretty gift from this brand. This whole brand just has the prettiest things, but another gift that I think that a friend would really love. Is this in the stars lip oil. So this actually reminds me a lot of the Tir Tir lip oils that I love. I use those a ton, but it has some glitter particles to it. When you put it on your skin, it actually goes on pretty clear. You don't get like a glittery result from it, so it's not a glitter lip balm or a glitter lip oil, but it looks super pretty because it's glittery and it has those little gold flecks in the bottle. So that's why I think it makes a great gift. It's hydrating. It's easy to wear. Easy to pop in your purse. Very pretty little gift. Gift gets under $30. Let's go baby. We are back to Vlando and we're back to travel jewelry cases I obviously love these. I love these so much. Like I said before, this is just a very nice brand. This is a really nice brand on Amazon. This opens up. And now this is a little different than any of the other travel jewelry organizers that I've seen and used before, because this actually comes with these little zipper velvet jewelry bags. Okay, like how convenient is this? Look at this. So you can basically organize like all of your earrings, some of your necklaces. You can organize them separately so they don't tangle up. You know, if you have two necklaces you really like, you can put one in each so they don't tangle up. And then you can grab all of these little guys, put them in this adorable little case, zip it up and away you go. Whenever I see things like this, I always think about not being limited to just jewelry though. Okay, you could also put your makeup minis in here. You could put your I don't know, even maybe medication in here if you want Bobby pins, hair elastics. It's very convenient. Travel brush set, again we did this in the Travel Essentials video, but I had to bring it back because this has served me so well since that video. I have traveled and brought this and I didn't bring any other brushes, and I was a little bit worried because makeup is a big deal to me. You know, it's like my form of self-expression. And without the right tools, you can't do anything. I'm very limited in the looks that I can create. If I don't have the right tools. These brushes are so great. They are so little and so freaking cute, but you get everything you need. Like this is a foundation brush. It works incredibly well. I just used it on the weekend when I was at the Scott Barnes thing, you get a blush brush a crease brush, your eyebrow spoolie, you get everything. And the really cool thing about it is you have your synthetic hair bristle brushes, right, that are actually very good quality and actually work well. I created loads of looks on that trip with just these brushes. I didn't bring any of my high end brushes at all, but you also get this travel pouch, which is very convenient, and you also get this little mini brush holder, which I cannot tell you how much I love. I raved about it already in the travel video. If you want to go watch that. If you guys want like Amazon travel fines, go watch that video next. I'll leave it pinned in the pinned comment for you, but I mean, you can organize it here if you want to save space. Like what I did because I was traveling with my carry on, I organized it here. It takes up like no space at all. And you have every brush you need for any frickin look you want to make when you're when you're traveling. This is actually awesome for you to have for yourself. But it's also great as a gift. It really is. And it sits at a great price point. I mean, all of these brushes for just $28.99, like, come on, that's that's not even the price of one brush. Shower steamers. Okay, I got to show you guys these. Have you ever seen these? I bought the tiniest little one. But there's loads of different kinds. You have your different sense. Okay. So you have mint and eucalyptus, lavender, grapefruit, peppermint, watermelon and then sweet orange and vanilla. All you do is you unwrap it and then you put it beside your shower. You put it inside your shower, but not directly in the in the water. You put it like beside the water where it's going to evaporate and create the most delicious steamy bath. So I read a lot of reviews about this, 38,000 reviews. People are obsessed. This is an Amazon choice product 38,000. 4 and a half star reviews. I think I went through like ten of these steamers to try to find the best one with the best reviews, with the most reviews that were the best price. I'm drowning in shower steamer reviews. You okay? Drowning. Which is very fitting because this is for the shower. Anyway, I think this is the best one you'll find on Amazon according to my research. But what a lot of people were saying in the reviews is that this is wonderful if you're sick. So the mint one, the mint and eucalyptus is very refreshing when you are congested. If you have allergies, if you are sick, it makes your shower a spa. And who doesn't want that? All right, the last one in this category. I was a little bit on the fence to share this with you because I didn't know. Okay, okay. I'm I'm just gonna tell you. So it's this. Where did it go? Take two, take two. There we go. So I got really, really addicted to Love Island Has anyone watched it? Please, please tell me you've watched it. Anyway, everyone on that show, I'm literally googling it right now. They were all wearing these clover necklaces, okay? And I was like, why is everyone wearing this clover necklace? I'm sure production gifted it to them, I'm sure, but they were so pretty. And then I'm watching Love Is Blind Habibi. I admit it. I like, I really like reality TV shows, okay, I do and all these people on Love Is Blind Habibi, were also wearing it. So I'm like googling Clover necklace. And of course it's Van Cleef that makes these clover necklaces. Okay. If you've never heard of Van Cleef, don't worry, because I also had never heard of Van Cleef either, because I'm not that fancy. But Van Cleef is not cheap, so this pendant with black is $3,900. Now, I really wish I had four grand to spend on a small necklace, but I don't. It's beautiful and I don't judge you if you buy it. I wanted the look of it, but you know the like everyday person look. So of course I googled clover necklace on Amazon and I found the set. Let me pop it up for you here. Now this set is $24.99. Now when you look closely at it, it's not, it's definitely not super good quality. Okay. There's even a little spot on the neck on the bracelet where you can see some glue. It's not great quality. I wouldn't gift this to your girlfriend if you're a guy watching this. Although no guys watch my channel. But if you, you know, have a young girl that happens to want this because it's so trendy on reality TV shows, then you can give them this. And I'm sure they would like it. From far away or even from like medium close up. It actually looks really pretty. I'm going to wear it, you know, I like it. I think it's really cute, but close up, it's not super good quality, but I wanted to include it in here. Anyway, let's move on to gifts under $40. All right. Look at this. This is so cute. I had never even heard of this before. This is a candle warmer lamp. Candle warmer lamp. So I am a big lover of candles. I love them, I love them, especially during Christmas because I put in all my Christmas scents. You know, like the tree scent and the cinnamon whatever. I want. Like I want my house to smell like a Christmas movie. And I'm sure you do too. If you're a middle aged mother, then I'm sure you do too. But there's always the concern. So I have Pom pom, my rabbit, who is free roam, so she's always run around. I also have two dogs and young kids, so I'm always worried. And I'm very, very forgetful. I'm very forgetful girl. So I'm always worried that I'm going to leave it out and it's going to like, my house is going to burn down. It's like it's actually a worry. So this is actually really cool because what this is, it's a candle warmer. Look at how pretty this is. Okay. You put your candle, you put it on and it warms up your candle. So it melts the wax and it will give off that delicious candle smell. But you don't have an open flame. Smart, right? So smart. See, look. The candle warmer lamp operates by heating the bulb, which in turn melts the surface of the fragrance candle, allowing for an even release of aroma. This method is safer and more convenient than using an open flame, and it also serves as a beautiful decoration in your home. And it does. It's actually so pretty. Look at how pretty it is, you know? And it's really cool because you can change the light. I really like this. I think this is really cool. What do you guys think? Do you like this? I think it's really cool. Another gift under $40 is this. Look at this. This is a hardcover book. It is the Barbie the World Tour Margot Robbie book. Now, if you have someone in your life that's a Barbie lover, I'm a huge Barbie lover. I actually have a Barbie collection. Like, I really, really love Barbie. I think this makes a beautiful gift. This is a coffee table book. It is put together so beautifully. There are all of the vintage Barbie sketches. There's like tons of stuff about the movie. They've kind of transformed her into all of these different versions of Barbie. Like, how cool if you have someone in your life who is very girly girl and really into fashion. Oh my gosh, this is like the prettiest coffee table book ever. I am in love with it. So this one hasn't come yet. I thought it would come in time, but it didn't. So when it comes, I will show you some B-roll of it in detail. And if it's crappy, I will drop in as editing. Gabi future editing. Gabi and I will tell you that it's crappy, but it's $60.99. It's a jewelry storage box jewelry organizer. It has 22 necklace hooks and it's look, it looks so nice. There's so many different drawers. You can organize all of your jewelry in here, your earrings, your necklaces, your bracelets, everything. It's quite large and it comes in some really nice colors. So you have the apricot, you have black. There is a beautiful gray here. There is white. I have a different jewelry organizer from Amazon that hangs behind my door. That is amazing. Amazing. It's actually the jewelry. It's like a jewelry cabinet. Actually, I'll link that for you guys. I bought it a few years ago, but if I can find it, I'll link in the description box for you. But I use that every day. That's really great. The only problem is it's kind of wrecking the top of my door. But you can also mounted on the wall if you want. But this one's nice because you can just put it in your on your dresser, you know, organize all of your jewelry, which is so convenient. Jewelry lovers will love that. Okay, a wool sweater. That's this guys. This is a 100% merino wool. It's $47.99 and it is so comfortable, so warm and so, so nice. Again, if you're buying this as a gift, I think it's really nice to give like a festive color. So you can get the red one, the red ones obviously the one I bought or you could get the green, but they have loads of other really nice colors too. Of course you have your traditional black brown, you have gray, you have caramel like the caramel one is gorgeous. It's 100% Australia superfine merino wool and it's very nice. The only thing I gotta caution you with this is that it does run small. It actually runs pretty small. So I'm a size four and normally I wear a small in everything. I wear a small. I bought a medium because I like my sweaters to be a little bit oversize, because in Canada I like to layer it with with a base layer, because it gets so cold and it actually fits just like a small. So if you have someone in your life that you love that you're buying this for, and they are a large, for example, I would size up to extra large, but there are 60 ratings, four star reviews. People seem to really like it. I do find it very flattering, very comfortable. I would just size up a little bit. Are you still here? If you are, leave me a Christmas tree emoji in the comment section below. If you've made it this far. I've gone through two memory cards already. I'm going to cut a lot of this out, but I've gone for two memory cards. Okay, ready for this? This is an eye massager. This is an eye massager called the RENPHO Iris one. This is a relaxing massager for your eyes. Sounds really weird. I know, I was like, what? When I bought it, I'm like, this isn't going to make the video. This is going to be crap. But it's not. It's really nice. So you just turn it on. By pressing and holding this. Please close your eyes, relax and enjoy. So basically what it does is it massages all around your eyes and your temples. You can also put on the music. You can also sync it with Bluetooth I'm pretty sure. So you can listen to your own music. And there's different there's different pressures. There's you know, massage with heat. There's heat only, there is massage only there's all these different modes that you can circle through. And I gotta say, it's actually very, very relaxing and really nice for people that suffer with migraines or for people that are on their computer all day. And putting this on even for 5 to 10 minutes is so nice. Even my six year old is obsessed with it. He likes to use it before going to bed now. It's hilarious. It's so freaking cute. He'll say, mommy, can I use the eye massager? And he'll lay in his little bed under his blankies with it for like five minutes, and it calms him. It's very meditative. Honestly. It's it's actually really nice. How much is this thing? I don't even remember it anymore, but I've been using it every day since it came. It's $75.99 and it's pretty damn nice. It is. Gotta admit, it's pretty nice. Finally, Tula overnight repair I love Tula skincare. I talk about them a lot. I love their sunscreens. I love their eye gels. You know those little sticks that you put under the eyes? I talk about those all the time. I'm using their moisturizer everyday now. I really love Tula Skincare and I couldn't believe that Tula was on Amazon when I saw it. I was like, what? No freaking way. So this is the beauty sleep overnight repair treatment. And I think this makes a great gift because it's an overnight cream. Sometimes I find giving day creams a little bit tricky because certain people have very dry skin, so they need more emollient products. Certain people have oily skin, so they need lighter product. Like how do you know what someone's skin type is? This is an overnight repair, so that doesn't matter as much. And this is really good because it has probiotic extracts, AHAs and Vitamin C's. So it targets signs of premature aging, smooths the appearance of wrinkles and improves the look of tone and texture all while you sleep. It's a beautiful little package and I think it would work for all types of different people. Thank you guys so much for watching again if you made it this far, leave me a Christmas tree emoji in the comment section below. This video's over.