Hey everyone. As most of you know, this the media world into a frenzy, with so many it means for society when we can't even agree pundit, so what's his take on all this? in commenting on a Piers Morgan segment, except July 4th I got an email from one of his producers citing as the topic Terry, Candace Owens, Stephen I said yes, this is right up my wheelhouse. and they had arranged for a mobile studio to come and the rest of the panel. Then early Monday crew and they couldn't get anyone out to my house, way of knowing if this is true or not. They could any number of reasons, it could be that another be that what they said is true and it wasn't their took place, and it consisted of Eric Weinstein, video on Terry, Brian Keating, a cosmologist with a mixed bag of quality, and a YouTuber the art of clickbait and whose relationship to less the unproductive tone deaf back and forth Trust the science became a mantra during and partly as a consequence, a rising tide of the mainstream is en vogue. Nowhere is this better actor Terrence Howard on the Joe Rogan podcast. science was never a mantra. Fauci said it one pretend it's something every scientist says every are not "challenging the mainstream", they're just It's just science. Science is not the media. is that which has been substantiated empirically this dishonestly. Anyway, Piers plays a brief taking the position that Terry is nuts, which he to Terry whining about how dismissive Neil primary scientific literature, not Joe Rogan's that is beyond obvious to anyone who understands Well others disagree, they argue the old and challenging of mainstream institutions and Yes, this seemingly sensible attitude is the purely apolitical and totally irrefutable corporate agenda. The government did the Tuskegee aren't real. Big Tobacco lied about cigarettes so DDT is bad so basic arithmetic is wrong. That old mainstream institutions, they're just looking for Piers talks almost exclusively to Eric Were you aware that Terrence Howard was he could even conduct an interview like that? Howard was, so I didn't have an image for him. Werner Herzog doing the entire film Fitzcarraldo technologically advanced people could move heavy film to test his engineering theories. Hedy Lamarr despite being a screen siren back in the 30s and find out that Steve Martin is an incredible banjo like Terrence Howard would have such theories. all of these amazing people outside of academia Calling Terry a polymath is laughable. It's a or learning. Terry has never learned anything. Confidently spewing complete gibberish about a polymath, it makes you an asshole. But hey, and Hedy Lamarr invented a cool thing, so pretending to be a genius, no matter how many I don't think that the theories about math so I'm going to push back on that, but I do think he doesn't know what he doesn't know. also known as word salad he spews in a manic state Terry's ramblings as theories, or pretends that knowledge of any kind, is all you need to something in order to paint academia as the bad is here to do, since that's his big gripe too. know enough to sort of ask questions and stuff but other words when they're presented with, you know and is deemed to be established scientific understand why he's wrong to question it. Yeah. Yeah. actually because it feels to me like Neil deGrasse effect when it comes to peer review. has no idea what he's talking about as politely says that Neil exhibits the Dunning-Kruger effect funny. Has Neil published any peer-reviewed he has. He was the primary author on about was a working astrophysicist, before becoming he didn't revolutionize the field by a longshot, do and publish science. What about smarty pants has never published anything scientific in his Geometric Unity he even prefaces it by announcing bends over backwards to distance himself from acts like he is part of it, referring to real His community is podcasters and pundits. So As his comments about Sir Arthur Eddington that Einstein's theory about a star warping space, Neil claims that that was sent to a peer-reviewed in physics and in the sciences really until the because Neil himself doesn't appear conversant Ah yes, a pointless semantic gripe. Prior The point is that Einstein had a theory which predictions were vindicated to high precision, and shapes and regurgitates random words he doesn't Einstein. But it's Neil the professional the history of science. This is absolute madness. medicine, that a lot of very smart people but maybe not enough to reach absolute definitive peer group then look at and discuss and analzye science over decades, centuries, and so on. I is that people like you and Neil deGrasse Well he was doing pretty well until science progresses by scientists doing science Neil and Eric are not scientists. Neil used could disagree with science progressing by My claim is is that in general we avoid I think it's fine to avoid dust ups when you feel But in general science progresses by a large famously observed that his milk maids weren't So he injected his entire family with cow puss... insane ramblings because they are afraid of Because new science comes from laypeople all the years ago and very few other examples. How large variety of different channels. It progresses someone like Terry should be dismissed outright be dismissed the moment he opens his mouth and nothing but falsehoods by Eric's own admission. was true, or at least vaguely Very little. very little, him getting tens of millions of and then someone with your pedigree and your kind of going along with engaging him as a serious way diminishing science when you do that? but this was one of them. Yes, Eric. Since you is bullshit, why would you go on Rogan's First of all I wouldn't have had Terrence on the what he actually is doing that's interesting, friend of mine's choice. So partially what you're Joe Rogan, and a mathematician Eric Weinstein. honestly. He flat out admits that he went on in the first place, because he loves going on Joe's a buddy of mine and he matters to me. And some people tried to frame it as if Really? That's not what Joe said. and he said he would love to do it. you calling your best pal Joe a liar, Eric? it's likely his concept of a six rotor drone mathematical error, where he's fit six pentagons giving him six degrees of freedom which span what giving him the ability to rotate around a center It's an incredibly cool idea. Now I don't but I don't know that. I haven't done that work. you know, what the state of the art is. for drones ought to be a prerequisite for you to Eric. And for the record, it isn't. multi-angled multi-motored drones already he paid other people to do it, so any ounce They just made it look like Terry's dumb shape. obscure mathematics terminology for no reason. Tysons where they say "I'm so pleased world of ideas", they're really not. actively disregarding the entire body of delusions are better. It's an enormous insult to You know my feeling about this is pretending repugnant to me. I mean if you just take what because of some good fortune in my life I of the greatest musicians now living, Stanley your work on playing the periodic table by using much the way Terrence was discussing. wrong, and we already talked about how ionization meaningless, and also totally different from all anyway. Even if you take the energy of the photon you're still referencing a photon and not an My feeling is is that a lot of my and even though they're supposedly the they're not behaving like professors, they're making fun of somebody because it allows and that's not going to happen on my watch. 2nd grade math is totally a way for brilliant Oh whatever would we do without Eric here to lord what a sanctimonious jackass. has gone through life as a movie actor, quite groundbreaking in the very complex It's not in science and it's not in mathematics. it's in engineering, art, and it's possible that recognize where his shapes come from, where Neil so you know there's some very beautiful geometry. that would only be reasonable if Neil had doesn't understand Terry's shapes and doesn't Neil was extremely generous about in order science illiteracy. He specifically cited What Neil did is really troubling. What he which is just submit your work to a peer-reviewed peer review, doesn't know why it's called review actually is, which is bizarre. the delusional ramblings of a clueless and knowing when someone is objectively And the whole concept of peer review, the your fellow citizens. It's like peers as in of peer review is to keep the laity, the people for a living, out of the review process. research to be reviewed by people who actually How the hell are laypeople going to review you nitwit? This is like pretending that just so they can keep average people out of people who are really good at basketball get to able to play on any team they want! These are the and participation trophies, yet he pretends who don't understand science from reviewing Is it damaging when everybody on social media it may be, different type of science you like, get amplified, like Terrence Howard, if they're Apart from Piers' inability to pronounce question. Is it damaging when every wilfully and spreads false information? The answer is The greatest damage is when who happen to be official pseudoscientists. those clueless assholes pretending to understand is this official pseudoscientist, as So when you take a director of NAI... national and you take that person's contradictory then suddenly everybody has to learn to make a decision for their child, and biology because you've amplified pseudoscience Advanced biology? Everyone was supposed to learn moment ago whining about how laypeople should have anyone off the street should be able to review but they shouldn't be expected to have learned of sense. And of course he's talking about pronouncements? I assume he's talking about didn't want everyone panic-buying masks, I'll give him that one, it's a bit frustrating his big gripe? Not the tens of thousands of because it has a microchip from Bill Gates? to disavow public health. Public health is bizarre field that tries to straddle two Public health isn't science, you guys. these aren't science at all! It's crazy mumbo health is both a scientific issue and a public so it's where you see the politicization order to wage a culture war. All of a sudden the the odds of spreading communicable disease is It is a common tactic of the right to There are a couple of mildly reasonable gripes, lying about the measly 600k that went to Wuhan for excuse of distrust in government to explain the ludicrous. I don't trust the government, therefore This attitude is shockingly prevalent. When people they reisisting? Which political institution it's time to bring in the rest of the panel. Well I think as scientists we have a for coining the term intellectual dark web, and I to keep, you know, the environmental, the I feel like there is a tendency, because of this to view science as authoritarian, and then to or Candace Owens, or people like Tucker Carlson. social media stature. But to me, to listen to track record, is an affront to actual practicing claims that amateurs can do good science, and there's some babies in with the bathwater, and I'd those particular babies. Because to me, to say that, or some drone, it sounds to me a little bit you go through and there's 97 patents he claims he of them have been granted, there may be a couple Eric demonstrated clearly that's not the case. are completely wrong there. His claims about the planet Saturn, or it comes out of a biological completely fallacious. So I think there's a Brian comes out of the gate eager to and for pretty good reason. He's well known as posturing about academia, and he's been Discovery Institute as well as anti-vaxxers blowback for it. It seems like he is aware of to Terry, and he's jumping ship to defend the The baby and bathwater, what would you Well I've tried to say it already, that if you from the center, you're looking at an angle of the in degrees, and if you take the interior angles of but it is close enough so that within of these motors into a regular tetrahedron. smiling to themselves as if to ask why the here. Of course we all know why, he has chosen shouldn't all ignore Terry, and he validates and tetrahedron so that everyone will just nod Eric isn't having this mutiny from Brian. me on social media. Now of course we're friends you've stated that in my field that peer review born in 1961, and you cited a bunch of journals Again, that peer review became the norm in and there was always editorial review, respond because Eric is off on another rant. for everyone and mathematics is a bad questions. And then when they appear to But they aren't taking an interest, Eric. Terry for his gibberish have no interest in science. or asking questions, they are just denying the point. Eric can't help but steer absolutely he acts like the white knight for the persecuted ignorance to be worth as much as real knowledge. dissenting experts, and the dissenting the top of their lungs say hey we've got a we have an abomination in the way in which we the main engine of Darwinian selection. said are not "dissenting voices", Eric. They're everything that academia ignores for no reason, describing anti-science charlatans and pretending Discovery Institute writing your scripts for you? dissenters who actually know what they're talking wonders whether they've just shortened uneccessary experimental pseudo-vaccine. also known as a not experimental actual who don't know what vaccines are. Good call, Tom, what's your perspective on this? is if you're arguing at the level of the specifics here has to be to understand that we are is the problem. When I saw the interview with I just about dislocated my finger dialing Eric this stuff. And the reason that I was very excited so well, Eric you are a national treasure... though sadly it seems that he's another one who so he doesn't realize he's not the guy who should Is that it does not matter to me If by elites you mean scientists, then about science in isolation, since they're All that happens is, if people have an idea that mean this is like the multiverse, where we no That has second and third order consequences that Yes, our society is splintering in complete denial of reality, and Tom You have to understand, because but certainly COVID being a nice mile marker lead us properly, it broke our trust in science... to blame for the science denial that came out of polarized the population against science. How long anytime soon, because here comes Candace Owens. so many things that they lied to us about, being injured, and we just accept everything. pagan faith. Yes, that's what I actually believe. on. Now I interviewd Candace myself recently, and in vaccines at all. And she has a big following. now saying that because there have been legitimate that everything about them is flawed and wrong, are the devil. It means that scientists can never one aspect of a big thing like a COVID pandemic, if they're wrong about any aspect of it, the Piers, this is why we have to understand The very thing that Eric... Is to say science is about figuring out where reputation, as they have done over the last four then if I can pull one thread and it falls just gets behind Feynman's statement, that this where they're wrong, now it can become a far This is totally idiotic. It's just another and pandemic response, to which Tom replies which they don't, and that we have to be all didn't say and that we absolutely shouldn't do. do science for a living is the cornerstone the death of human civilization. Yeah, Tom, just because someone's an expert them. The world is full of unrefuted BS. And to intellectual Seal Team 6, where we can never be and everyone else is relying on us, Seal Team perspective, you know when you listen to people enabled by technology that was invented at Bell which she also denies, the moon landings and prescientific age where people can unfortunately which Eric I'm sorry to say, my academic genealogy those people including my students, I'm now in who have their own graduate students, Brian comes through as the only scientist on to arbitrarily distrust scientists and clap back review. People spew lies on the internet 24/7, not be expected to clean up the internet's insane do. But of course Eric won't tolerate the dissent argument in the history of this program. that. Brian, what you just said is not The Einstein paper was not Sorry that was John Tate, who was the Pasternak before Sam Goodschmidt... Eddington. Eddington helped out as well and You're not hearing me. Peer review is not referee in fact an error introduced into the literature the father of the Merton, black scholes Merton I do know it and in fact invite you to go down in London, and you'll see pictures of Michael see them in front of audiences. Was there a peer The average person is punching themselves in the literally I know both these guys, Eric I Brian, I love you guys. So I say the average person wants to chew or their laptop as they're listening to this, Tom says the viewers don't care about this semantics of how scientific research was reviewed has nothing to do with the way that the public Eric can't help but pretend that basic science is history of peer review is, it's how science science shouldn't get published. End of story. could just get you guys on board with the reality where yes you guys are being asked to do a public do not have your scientific bona fides but the actually listen to your collision of ideas for to Terrence. And the first time I heard Terrence Tom reminds them both that the main issue is that address it head on with clarity, something Eric The world is not crying out for Candace physician with my daughter's interest at heart. make a boogeyman out of anything. It's possible didn't care enough one time, but most people propaganda they encounter every day on every Where is the biologist who's willing to stand up Disagree with what? He doesn't even bother is enough to trigger the sentiment he wants. by getting rid of the people who won't shut up This choice of language is very deliberate. scientific fact, it's not because that thing Sing from the hymnal! Preach, you brainwashed help himself, he's doing exactly what Candace to end with some positivity. future of science and its integrity. the people that I work with, the incredible personally and part of a team of 300 scientists the first nanosecond in the cosmos's history. It's and to hear about science, its best days On the other hand, we have to guard against all sorts of anti-vaxxers and things like that. self-correcting. And part of that self-correction peers. Whatever Eric and I disagree with about like to say, it's the worst system for gauging Brian basically says science is doing just fine even if scientists aren't infallible, and We are living in a reality where everybody is and people are screaming out for Candace Owens. sure I'm going to disagree with every word out of she has already captured people in terms of their a marketer I can tell you, you guys are terrible. I look at Eric and I'm like is this the smartest him at my house just whispering in my ear all way better. However from a marketing perspective, challenge that we have to overcome. And Candace She captures what people want to hear. has ever met, he needs to get out more. But emotionally charged lies do better with the what a surprise. It's almost like humans are easy time for money and political power. Who'd have she panders to the fundamentalist Christian base, science a pagan faith, since pagan is a naughty deniers just like to project their baseless totally antithetical to faith to feel justified gives them that feeling, and she is rewarded Science is about two things. Number one, the matter because they give us GPS and nuclear Well the problem with that attitude is that we have, so you can't fuel discovery by an obsession And the second thing is, we know we're wrong about through what are all the things we're wrong about out of class Eric oh please god, but Eric has the cosmos, and we aren't, because string theory ideas, you have to break the old paradigms, in judge every idea by its utility and not by where Yes, Tom knows a lot about string theory. He anti-academia narrative from his friend Eric the for string theory, we would be flying around in best bet for doing that would be wormholes, the paradigm that already exists and is well talking about what we are wrong about, a thing better science to improve upon what we know now, body of knowledge that the public refuses to way. That's the problem, Tom. Not string theory. Eric spewed the precise bullshit script he's known ineffectual, Tom made a couple decent points but and Piers didn't push back on anything, such a provocative and important discussion. I think I'll take this opportunity to share some I had hoped to work in this quote from Isaac United States, and there has always been. The thread winding its way through our political that democracy means that 'my ignorance is just as and it's been echoed by other great thinkers being unable to grasp the technology we all use agenda or ask the right questions, culminating in Even these two could not have foreseen how bad now questioning the shape of the Earth and the fervor makes us easy to manipulate, because any who is telling it or what their motives are. We operating through mass media and legislation, And we don't have to speculate as to how harmful Persecution of scientists under Stalin was was promoted to a high scientific position Stalin that genetics and relativity were To address agricultural problems, he promoted a and millions died of starvation as a result of genetics were left destitute or even executed. Are Let's face reality, Trump is going to win the into his cabinet and begin persecuting real executive power and abuse his position to the are plenty of wealthy people who will help about Project 2025, but it's not a conspiracy. stages of Christian theocracy, and it's already and while it should receive far more Howard, we should recognize that it's all Anti-science sentiment does not arise out of more complicated and therefore difficult for out due to the discomfort this produces. But promoting this mentality stemming from Republican populace that is not only science illiterate but change is in the interest of energy producers. interest of Christian theocrats. These efforts the Koch brothers. I'm not saying Terry is funded attitude of reality denial and hostility toward that now has people questioning 2nd grade math. science, one must popularize the notion that the places where you gain knowledge, are evil. out how to resist our brainwashing, and also how Universities are famously places that so they must be demonized. It is a successful have a reason to not learn anything and cling to It goes without saying that religion is a because scientific progress, particularly as of such as immaculate divine creation. This triggers and they lash out in precisely the same physical violence, with hostility and tribalism. issue, it has at this point completely not a Democrat and I no longer vote Democrat as it does not have the best interests of the party is cartoonishly apocalyptic in comparison. all science, actively pushing us back into authoritarian control by the church. In the wake be given a voice is preposterous. He is not the in place. He does not deserve a platform. He most of the figures with any kind of expertise have ulterior motives as well, and only serve So let's get down to brass tacks. What It boils down to three principles. 1) Religious 2) Populist anti-elitism, or the rejection of the belief that pursuit of knowledge only This movement intends to halt the acquisition with power and privilege. Misinformation that who speak truth to that power are preemptively is not completely blameless, admittedly. Part of increasingly high cost of education. But this is sanctity of centers of knowledge. Corporations when the public can not even identify thus perpetuating their own subjugation. We can the tobacco industry, and so forth, but we do Politicians, corporations, and religious promoting anti-intellectualism. They enact the things like climate change so severely that simply This spills over into the social realm just as or the same blind allegiance to a governing body This is the reason for equating Black Lives "fascism", and the justification for this always This in turn is used to justify a militarized And lastly, anti-intellectualism promotes while demanding that people blindly follow People who fall into this way of thinking will the body of knowledge produced by tens of the world under every type of government yet they place absolutely zero scrutiny on the they enjoy, which are riddled with distortion and find comfort in the strength and confidence beliefs. That's why Trump famously stated that he and he wouldn't lose any voters. Because their As far as Eric, I won't go into much detail and his brother, outlining their entire ethos that Eric's hard on for denigrating peer review rejecting his theory of everything because I will go into more detail about this than you that. I will also discuss his blatant pandering COVID vaccines, and related issues, as well as the war mainstays, and even obvious propaganda like pretending there is any merit to his insanity, nonsense on this program does not undo the damage everything Terry says is wrong in a way that the in four hours. For everyone pretending that I moron to his face, you're totally off the mark. In chemistry, and physics, with extreme and it's what I would have done, for the Eric took someone that might as well be a lunatic shouting into a megaphone, and pretended that he In the end, and here comes Dave the broken record, single greatest threat facing mankind. Take a satirical, the manner in which the general public threat was depicted magnificently. There is no comet coming to kill us all. And yet, the comet into believing the comet didn't exist, and a my estimation that is roughly what would happen some other such situation. And the culprit is and demagogues who abuse the power of the internet Rogan are not the main culprits but they also criticism for amplifying the chaos for monetary sources of disinformation and promoting general solution to this doomsday recipe. I don't know be either less corrupt and manipulative, my youthful optimism has been diminished as I So those are some things I would have said word in edgewise over Eric Weinstein. Maybe but something tells me I probably won't. and I'm going to keep doing that for quite