Jumla, in western Nepal, a small perched town One of the regions 10,000 people live here The only thread that connects them to the world, 300 kilometers below, A dreadful road, Tilak is 19 years old, his daily life, preferably protected Muskan, 16 years old, To face this road, Muskan, it is indispensable to me during I can not do We make a good team Tilak must leave for Surkhet three hundred kilometers Before each departure, He was born in this his family is very poor. His mother, Bijou, His father, Dhyana, I'm glad he has a job Jumla is the region and at least, Anyway, I have no choice, Without me, she wouldn't have This road is so dangerous I'm worried Every time a rumor we are terrified at the thought For all mothers of drivers, the road is a ruthless deity Not a week goes by without Precipices, landslides, mud and stones make From Jumla to Surkhet sometimes it takes five and every mile is a death challenge. However, to supply the valley, Surkhet at 600 meters above sea level, the city is the lung the biggest market This morning, Tilak is who he used to work with. This merchant called on him to carry 500 kilos Between them, no problem, I send rice and sugar to Jumla Each bag must be wedged at most the Jeep must be fully loaded. A source of concern for Tilak. Due to the difficulty of the road, I can carry up to 600 kilos In addition to my cargo, I must Wait, what is this? This bag is ruined, it has a hole in it. Chief, the bag on the road there, We will lose the goods. Don't worry, it'll be fine. It shakes a lot The road to Jumla Yes, very dangerous and it's true The road is getting better day by day and we send drivers that we know well Every trip Hello, we are on foot, I'm going to Jumla, if it's We'll put your things behind. These two men are Rautyes, The only one who still lives A legend throughout the country. Refuse a favor Came to town for they must now Within minutes they become Did you know Jumla? To do what ? We are nomads It's very cold up there It's true that it's cold, It's the start. Several years ago He knows the smallest Its passengers I left first like many young people in the region. When I returned, I took For two years I was an apprentice. All apprentices hope The beginnings are difficult. We can't neither the cold nor the state of the road. Whatever, Me, that's what I did. This stretch of road It runs well, we would hardly put There, all kinds tractors, trucks, During the day, three or four buses 11 hours of travel In these always crowded buses, the atmosphere is serious and the passengers whether they are at We take more risks when traveling Below, It just takes good I know at least who died falling it's better than Tenzing is 26, he drives this bus A jackpot in the valley When I leave home in the morning, She constantly worries about I have to drive slowly the slightest mistake can be fatal. It's a big responsibility the life of all these people It only took two In these buses, no panels One of the passengers in Enough now with You don't surrender Let the driver focus It's been more than six hours since the Jeep In this small village, many restaurants have opened for How are you ? Not too tired ? We're going to stop for an hour and eat. Your two passengers, I am really I asked them a bunch of questions, They live in the jungle, they are surprised that we, we wear clothes, Finally things like this. Tilak invites them to share his meal, but the Rautyes are not reassured Eat, it's Dal, Rice and lentils The men of the forest do not eat You have to mix with the I do not really like Yes, you have to eat Alright, I'll have a taste. eat the fish So, how are you ? Yes, it's fine, it's fine, look You never eat this All Nepalese dream of a great I will tell you one You, you keep your houses We've been walking for seven days and I will still need at least We were in India, employees We built a stadium there, We handled the crowbar The job is done Why don't you take the bus? They are all packed. Always the same on this road, We do not have a choice, From here the road hollowed out by overloaded buses. This is what just happened to Tilak In that case, The bus driver there is his advice It is absolutely necessary that they we're all stuck here for the night. I can't get around That's the problem with this road, one vehicle in trouble Night has fallen, she makes Tilak has been rolling for hours Their only landmark to find their Finally, one of the Rautyes recognizes the place. Stop the car, Are you sure you're staying here? Come on my friends and you, don't forget your stick. Look, there's a fire over there, You see it ? A fire ? Yes, it is the light of the fire. To thank Tilak, the Rautyes That is what is All my life I Come on, goodbye, my friends, ...Civilized before the rise This is where the buses stop, Rajesh, the little walker exhausted by their endless We will leave tomorrow at dawn, I still need five or six hours It goes uphill, believe me. I'm very happy to be back. No one there knows that I could not warn, Seated in one of the Tilak and Muskan recover Boy, come here, come sit with Have you ever seen a Rautyes? It's a wild tribe I carried two I invited them to eat with me. At the vigil, the adventurers of The story of their exploits fascinates. They risk their lives, but win A small fortune in the valley. Tonight, Tilak wants to be generous. In a country where meat Come on, eat my boy, rice in india, If it's okay. Me, I prefer our rice Before leaving on foot, Rajesh on this blanket placed on the floor. Tilak and Muskan, No way I sleep in the car, I don't wanna take the risk My boss would never forgive me. Their only wealth. We arrived ? We will be there Where is your house? Rajesh was born in this house. His mother, Dudeka, and the father is in the fields. The family only survives Rajesh's arrival does not cause He's been gone for six months, I am so happy, I couldn't stop it I told him not to He didn't listen to me I had no choice whatever my mother I will go back to India for sure. To console her for this exile, This trunk he has contains the much-awaited gifts. A blouse, thank you my son, It's pants and That's shoes When I think This is what? It's for your father. All of this is the result of I slaved away on this I broke stones, making and pouring cement Everything I've been through is nothing, compared to joy Tilak and Muskan took over The climb to Jumla really begins. Until the end, the gearbox From there, two The road is too narrow. When that happens it's stressful Muskan, my assistant, What makes this one? Tilak will try to pass, I can not move, It does not pass. No other solution, Tilak must back down. the smallest A problem that From here, very few vehicles A few Jeeps, tractors Not the big ones It's also the time I don't like this job. To tell you the truth That's how I pass my time I eat dust, night and day. I eat badly, I sleep little, but Either way, one day I'll be I like driving at night. The day is a lot you see the cliff, the ravine. It's less stressful Make sure that Yes do not worry, Everything is fine ? Nothing broken, are you sure? Lets' go. Without Muskan, this would be impossible Me, I have to stay focused on my A few kilometers further, unexpected traffic jam A truck blocks the road. It is bogged down and several attempts The tractor tries again Another failure, the rope gave way. Tilak himself, helped by What are you doing Tilak? We have to pass, but I do not know We're not going to spend the night here. It took almost an hour to set up Come on, push, go. Hand over a Muskan stone. It's around Tilak, he's worried, makeshift installation It should work, but Tilak and Muskan go before reaching Manma Manma, the next morning, 5,000 souls live here, without water In the main street, a funny Six months ago, she was going to the bazaar when a tractor tips over His mother is killed, We left We walk like I suffer martyrdom, Did the accident happen near here? There, very close, a little higher In Manma, no ambulance. Aseema is brought by her sons to the Created five years ago, it is the only hospital with The only access to care far too far from Kathmandu, the capital. Waiting rooms You have to prove to see the only practicing physician. Tell him to breathe normally. Renee, 31 years old, Dutch, Alternately generalist, she responds as she can to Hello, Things are going well ? The wound healed well, that's good. It's normal it's because of the pins It still takes time She is very lucky The road kills a lot of people here? Tractors, which plunge into the ravine, There are many injured and dead. I have been here for five months, so yes, this road I'm so unhappy, cursed be this road that All this is very paradoxical, I am on the one hand confronted but also to its positive aspect. It allows me to evacuate the This damn road and it allows people He calls it the highway, but I am not sure This mountainside highway, The decor is always the same. Also the difficulties Driving requires more It's getting tighter and tighter From here there are very If I come across one, There is no room Before the road, there was Now look, The road also feeds This little town rose from the ground My house is on the hill, but I decided to The future is here. There I build a small Villagers like me understood the Once it's all over, I will bring my family While the adults their children monopolize, When I grow up, This road is very dangerous, Besides, when I grow up, At the bend of the cliff, In one of them, under a What is happening ? a truck fell into the ravine and there, The driver tried and that's when we fell into the void. There were three dead and five injured. Where are you injured? In the other Jeep, Who is this ? Where is he from ? He had been working since Barely six months. The other injured The man, he He will still have to endure with his broken leg I'm sad All those who circulate on He was surely dreaming The slightest mistake does not forgive Strongly that his state That's where there was an accident. Yes, you'll see, we're getting there. The tires are not even damaged. On the other hand, the dumpster The engine looks intact. Poor helper, It seems that the wizard's body Yes I know. They say his head In my opinion, They must have had their heads sticking out, How awful ! The driver did not He had to cling to his How bad is this road! Tilak, you often think I'm not afraid of death, but I know We have to die one day, In any case, the one who is afraid of death, It's the same for me. I dropped my and i will give it my all I'm often scared on the road, but i'm realistic Last day of the journey, the most trying Tilak inspects the brakes If you don't know anything about mechanics, In general, this Muskan, it's good. The rest is in God's hands. I can repair small breakdowns, but if i break a piece That's my big concern. I am then obliged to wait on the spot It's fine, no the bags are not torn, The most dangerous part It is the cliff of Timoure, Impossible to do this stretch All drivers know this, The risks of landslide without protection or warning. Soon a bad memory. The Nepal Army The simple but effective method Here the traffic It's a pass Two vehicles There have been many Only by blasting the cliff If we let the civilians do it, It's necessary but given the state of the road, I have to pass, otherwise Maybe by putting In any event, Muskan, you check well You give me a sign if it rubs, Guys fill me up I'm going to try Tilak's white Jeep She stops a few meters further. The wicks are lit, the military have some Do they also need a dangerous job? You saw how the stones flew. The hardest part is done, in four We come home, Here is the highway, There's no more stress It's day and night I could even Tomorrow another They will do the same again It's fate