Using science, I made a rainbow colored flame combine into a fire tornado. I also made water that instantly And with just powdered sugar, I mastered the ancient art of But I'm not stopping there because to 1000 science experiments. And the goal by the end of the how these experiments work, but also why they work. Starting with level one, we're making a magic lighter Take a normal pen and dip the and watch the magic happen. Oh, yeah. The flame is floating. This works because normally it emits blue light like this. But when ink is burned, which we can't see with our human eyes. This creates an illusion of moving on to level 100. Did you know that we can So if we shoot the laser it's just a straight line. Nothing really interesting happens. But when you shoot lasers it can alter the behaviors. Let's try the saltwater first. So now the bottom has Let's see what happens when As you can see, the laser just goes straight. But as we move down lower and lower, The laser is bending at the tip. This is happening because which means the light is Let's see what happens So now that our oil has settled, we now have a smooth and it's creating a divide Let's turn off the lights. When you shine the laser through oil, It creates a laser reflection. This is because the oil has a smooth It kind of acts like a For this next experiment, we're going to make things levitate And in this case, We just need a couple things. Balloon, plastic bag, and some scissors. First, blow up your balloon. Bam. And this is just a simple grocery And all we gotta do is just After you cut out your ring of plastic here, Rub both of these on your shirt, and this will create a I'm feeling myself... watch the magic happen. Oh yeah, baby. I'm now making the bag of electrical force. As you rub the bag and the balloon, and it's kind of like a That's what's making them float and make it rise again. This trick just goes to show that we can see with our naked eye. For this next experiment, I'm going to show you how to win a free gift cards with a total value of $5, 000. Its pretty simple. All you got to do is experiment I know the game is a meme but you can during the summer Tavern event. Heres how. Download Raid using my QR code Go to summertavern.plarium.com Enter your Raid id and start Play through the entire minigame, Plus you'll get free two months you download raid before July 17. Play for at least five days and What I like about Raid is that My personal favorite is Mithrala. When you download raid using you'll immediately get a huge starter and another starter pack when you Find me under the name Make sure you go download Raid Shadow This next experiment is one of easiest experiments to do. We're gonna make instant ice. Here we just have a normal but watch what happens when I slam. Ice starts to form. You see that? That is so cool because this is I tried a lot of different methods and this is the best one I found. So first you take your Fiji waters and leave them in the fridge for 3 hours. So after the waters have been chilling now we're gonna move it into the freezer. And now we need to set When you're taking it out, Now you're ready for some experiments. Now let's test the instant ice will produce a really cool effect. This is a whole bottle We're just gonna pour it in here. Oh, that is cold. That is cold. I'm just blow drying it so it's not foggy, Let's start with the strawberry. Oh, my goodness. that is so cool. It's like an instant ice lollipop. So, we super cooled the water to But why was it still liquid? Because for water to turn into ice, it needs particles to Normally, it would be the chemicals but purified water doesn't so the crystallization That's why when you tap it, it starts to process or if you pour it will start forming because the ice That is so cool... Wow. That is cold. But that's almost like a magic trick. For this experiment, we're gonna make slime So, just take a bottle of Elmer's glue, and let's squirt it into the bowl And now we mix until it's fully dissolved. Next, we're gonna take a and we're gonna dissolve it Slowly pour in our borax Now we just need to pour it That is a weird texture. Now we got the slime, These are iron filings. You can be pretty generous here. The more you put in, Our slime is ready. To make our slime come alive., a strong magnet. And later, we're gonna test it with this super Oh. Oh, yo. Oh, my God. Do you see that? What would happen if I just Oh, yo, yo. This is cool. Now let's try it with Let's see. It looks like a pokemon, to be honest. Now let's put the slime onto the Whoa. It just, like, immediately cleans on. For this experiment, we're gonna make a magnetic motor magnets, The first step is stick the magnet We're gonna make this copper wire spin . Te easiest shape we can Here we go. Spin. Why is it not spinning? Just give it a little head start. Whoa. Yo, that's spinning really well. These coils are moving because are creating a magnetic field. Lastly, this is my favorite shape. I love you all. And this is for you. Spin. You can make any shape with the coil, Now let's spin into the next experiment. For our next experiment, we're gonna make this egg explode First off, Nice and simple there. And now get a plate and We need the cover in We don't want to clean up the mess. Pop it in there. In my testing, I found that 30 to 40 seconds Uh uh uh. Not on my watch. I'll give you a quick demonstration. Three, two, one. Ooh. We're now gonna play a game of Doug. You ready? I'm ready Rock, paper, scissors, on who goes first? All right. Ready? Rock, paper, scissors, shoot. I got him... Okay. I'm strategically gonna go for this one. I don't like that. I don't like that. All right, that one's normal. Okay. I'm gonna go for this one. Okay. That was a normal answer. You didn't even stand back on that one. You stand back on mine like It's all random, man. Oh, crap. All right. All right, let's clear the board. We're now down to the last two. Make your choice wisely. The last two. Nuts. Wow, look at that. Jeez. Yeah. Cause there was, a build up of steam inside, Oh. so when you cut into it, With this next experiment, we're going to be able to alter Fire. So, when you light a fire, But with these ingredients right here, we're able to change Remember, always wear protection. So we got five tins here, and each one of them we're methanol. All right. As you can see, The second tin. Let's add some boric acid in there. Oh, yeah, baby. Have you ever seen such a pretty flame? It's like a video game flame. And this is completely safe to burn. This is so cool. And our next flame is going to be Let's add that in there. Look at that. It's a little hard to tell the but that's definitely In our next container, which will make it yellow. Look at that. That is incredible. Lastly, we got the lithium. Oh, look at that. Instantly reacts. Whoa. That is a very vibrant red color. Like, We can also combine these colored flames to make color flames you can hold. Now we're gonna combine all these colors So, this is a mesh trash can As it spins, propelling the flame upwards, It's go time. Yeah. That is amazing. Look at that. This almost doesn't even look real. Whoa. Let's blast off into the next experiment. Would you believe me if I told you Just a regular balloon? And this is a thumbtack, Do you think this will pop? I mean. Oh, yeah, man. That's kind of to be expected, right? But what if we added more thumbtacks? You would think this would right? Let's find out. Nobody's better at blowing than me. Let's see. Look at that. It's not popping. And not just that. We can even add some weight to it. One gold play button and the balloon is So let's add more weight. Adding on the second play bun. This is ten pounds. Look, I'm not even touching it. I'm just helping it balance. This balloon has now become invincible. I can even, bounce it, It's still not popping. The explanation for this This is because when all the pressure is focused But when we place a the pressure is distributed and each one of them doesn't have This is very counterintuitive, and people use the same law Let's add more weight. I'll just use my third hand. Hold it in place. There we go. Okay, let go. Yo, look at that. The balloon is, like, fully. I guess we found the limit. Onto the next experiment. This next experiment can be so do not try this at home, .I am gonna attempt the dangerous any previous experience. So when you normally see they train for years because they toxic lamp oil that they use and But I'm gonna attempt the same So all we need is some powdered sugar. Powdered sugar? When you burn it normally, It doesn't really catch on fire. This is because powdered sugar is so oxygen to go in and catch on fire. But if we take the powdered sugar, put it in our mouth and spit something different will happen. And with the power of science, we just successfully attempted fire Let's go bigger. That was freaking cool, man. For our final experiment, we're gonna make fireworks Nine volt battery and steel wool. Normally you wouldn't think but watch what happens Look at that. It just instantly ignites. When the battery touches the steel wall, But steel wool isn't a great conductor, And resistance generates heat fire. And because steel wall is it has a lot of surface which makes it ignite even faster. And when we tie it to an end that's when we get fireworks. Now it's dark and we're in a park. It's time to set off some fireworks. That is hot, bruh. Woohoo. This is so cool, man. Now that was incredibly cool. And it's such a cheap But there's something And it's a camera trick. So if you set your camera to a you can recreate the We're gonna become doctor strange. And now we just need to bring into Here's the final result. Make sure you go claim your prizes using my QR code or link below, and click the screen to watch