What do you do when a brand new and takes multiple World Records overnight? This and the sudden appearance of an 11 year old boy who within one year is on track to become I have spoken with 5 players in the MKDS racing took place in late 2020, and all through 2021. In the world of speedrunning, racing games are finish as fast as possible...that's it isn't so much speedrunning as very strong communities will form out each other and they're all chasing after the player are going to be very well documented, hoping to become the best in either their But in late 2020, this entire concept was On September 20th, 2020 MKDS racer It's a video of Taiga getting a 1'56 on on a highly technical track. And nobody had that came with this video, the only identifier Translated out of Japanese into English says [Abel] It was a Waluigi Pinball replay, which was time. And naturally people were gobsmacked and possibly, having no prior interaction with even [Max] What is this? This is insane. "I am in sixth grade." And we were [Puddings] Okay yeah sure. Who is this guy? [Adrian] Waluigi Pinball was just the days Taiga would upload very impressive times, He also uploaded what is now a famous video of him the game. Which also had some World Records [Abel] I don't know if you've yes. The infamous one. That was the [Puddings] It's September and somebody does all the math. He would have [Max] It had several World Records in it, which them were on like Figure 8 Circuit, the first think of as being the top top track in terms of and real driving skill. And he had obliterated the [Keverage] And we're like oh my god, this guy even post those? A, why hasn't he posted them, itching to see it, we obviously [Adrian] Needless to say, this sixth grader was be supported. Almost immediately, questions and there were plenty of debates about whether or [Abel] We all thought this For someone to reach this high of an in any speed game 99% of the time you will have to said before) with its community. It was a very considered him to be cheating, understandably, [Keverage] Back in the day, people and someone could just be doing something on then pop up out of nowhere "oh, I have these But now that's just something that doesn't first instinct is "These times are faked, he nowhere he's just hitting World Records, or top [Max] There was a little bit of speculation as to is he playing with speed mod, or But we really didn't see much evidence of that. [Adrian] After all of the speculation, Taiga video" -- a literal video where the camera is This proved his skill, this showed and that he was probably capable of getting the another very interesting [Max] Really the gold standard in legitimacy DS, and he posted three videos of him playing. [Abel] And that was when the situation took an saw him play with the C-Pad. And that was like...We've never [Puddings] He's using a 3DS circle pad. Nintendo DS. This thing right here. This is what people play on DS Lite, some people [Keverage] It's like someone playing Mario Kart 64 with like a fight stick You think someone's good and then they have a You would just be so lost and confused and sure. It still to this day feels like it doesn't [Adrian] In order to further cement members of the community would eventually reach an R4 card. It's a flash cart that essentially that you claim, as well as review the runs more [Puddings] The moment -- the day Proving all of his times. At this point, we're Who is this kid? Why is he real? Everybody's like [Adrian] It was official. Taiga was who was better than 99% of the people who Now all of this happened in late 2020, short of incredible. And I'm going to I need to tell you about some of the major with Mario Kart DS. In order for you to understand For the purposes of this video, there are two if they want to be competitive in MKDS. The first one is called snaking, otherwise This is the concept of constantly drifting in order to take advantage of the The more mini-turbos that you The other technique is called PRB, or the countdown of any Mario Kart game, if you get a little speed boost at the Kart DS if you do that correctly, and then then you end up with what they call PRB. This is any slowdowns. It is something that is very hard The only other thing you need to know is how 32 different tracks, and each of those tracks has and the other for a 3-lap time. Then there's allows the use of PRB, and then the more complicated than that, but for the And for the most part with Taiga we'll be Now, I need to tell you about Taiga's 2021 he has picked up 30 World Records, World Records than anybody else. And not he has taken over 60 WRs, which accounts for I can't emphasize this enough: this is insane. hundreds of players dream of doing, and Taiga Now there's one other player in particular who and his name MKDasher. MKDasher is one of, if not the best player current and multi-time PRB Champion, he is the his role at the top of the charts for more than a if I can use that analogy. In fact Abel, has made a 90 minute documentary about him quality and super informative, I encourage you But in September 2020, MKDasher had 33 he's down to 24. So he had about 9 World Records he hasn't been going down without a fight. various World Records. And this is do before! He's had a lot of rivalries over people like TB1 (otherwise known as Thomas So I asked him to compare his rivalries in the past to his current [MKDasher] Yeah so I guess it's like completely I felt like when I battled the most with but I just played way more than him. So Then I had the same kind of battle with Rupa but then I came back and I was able But then with Taiga the situation was different really quickly, getting World Records really 5 World Records in one day. So it was level at some point, and in other tracks And he also was -- had more time to play than me. beat one time (that I think I can beat it), in the end it was very hard to battle with records that I still hold, but I don't know [Adrian] Clearly Taiga is something special. and obviously he has to be something a little So I asked players "what is it that Taiga he possess that allows him to reach the [Puddings] So at a top level it's a little really good at the video game. But I think consistent. Because of him being sort it makes him look like he's the most consistent times, so the only thing we see from him we don't see the thousands of fails. But I [Keverage] We don't know but clearly for him to get off good runs, he has to be ultra consistent also, [Abel] The older you get the more proficient Bowser's Castle, Peach Gardens. Taiga is very very tracks like Peach Circuit, Mario Circuit 1. He's have fast M-Ts, know how to PRB effectively. younger players, and then once they -- because I oriented and now I can't play those tracks for Now listen, there is one final piece to this and that's the fact that he is a very In the fact that he is not really in the of somebody doing very well very quickly, this is Nobody knows who Taiga is, besides the fact [Puddings] Does he know that he's like in the--I wake up in the morning, because it's I'll wake up the next morning and I wake up to "what the heck is going on?" And everybody Does this kid celebrate? Because I know when I running around the room! Does this kid get [Abel] Taiga is indeed very mysterious, sort of sets a new time, throws his DS on the [Adrian] Something even more bizarre is that actually cares about getting World Records. or his family have sent over his save files, were multiple record times that he just never It's clear that he's aware of the World Records, But in other cases he just lets them [MKDasher] Yeah we have found hidden records, hidden World Records, and probably times that And some of them I have the World [Adrian] Yeah I have to imagine where you're like "oh no the save file [MKDasher] Yeah, exactly. And I thought it's save file we'll enter in the save file and there's something that he hasn't uploaded to [Adrian] It seems like Taiga simulatenously and this shines most brightly when it comes to the he is the #3 player in the world, behind You see, the way that the rankings are determined When a player has posted their their rank is then averaged out to an overall then your Average Finish would be 1. Or 2 in the other half, then your Average But when I was talking to Max, [Max] He has very good times on all but one of his save files. And he has incredible where his times are ranked like outside the because all of his other times are like top 5. if he just played Moo Moo Farm and got like I Champion right now. And so right now he's third in four months with these terrible So we're just like, come on man, what's going on? [Adrian] I did the math, and even if he came for Moo Moo Farm, he would become the PRB [MKDasher] I'm not...I'm not really sure. I this Average Ranking and he just focus Which is understandable as well. But I'm [Keverage] I have no idea. I wonder if at this funny. He probably just...He's probably not be #1." I don't think he's thinking about that, becoming World Champ maybe. Maybe he just wants [Adrian] Undoubtedly, Taiga is one of the even knew who he was until late 2020. This is a need to be very careful about how they handle I talked to Abel, who was also a young child back in 2007. He also became PRB Champion in 2010. [Abel] I was very careful at the time to be pressuring this child into anything. Let's him for proof constantly. Because, you know, when files very often so I could archive them and didn't want to bother him too much to the point So there was this sort of delicate thing. You interacting with someone whose over the a child. You don't wanna...you don't a lot of people have started--well to Taiga in the sense that...cause when I was 12 this kid got 30 of them or more. Yeah of young World Record achievers for the [Adrian] Abel has been around for a very long the documentary that he made. It's very good, The future is bright for Taiga, assuming he wants World Champion, MKDasher says he doesn't [MKDasher] For example if I want to be the on another track, or beat that track, I will try general. It will be just on a certain track. single aspect of the game, because he is already [Adrian] I very much look forward to seeing assuming he wants to stick If you liked this video, please feel free to more speedrunning videos about a lot of different has an interesting story that deserves I'd also like to give a tremendous thank you this video, their insight was necessary in order have been able to tell this story of Taiga's I did try to reach out to Taiga's family to unfortunately I never heard Thank you very much for watching, and before we go I'm going to leave you about what to do if you want to start playing [Max] Right, I would absolutely say to play the game and enjoy the game and not worry scoring a great time on one certain track. people's videos, interact with the community, [MKDasher] Just play it for fun at try to improve slowly. Don't try to do the I know there are a lot of people that try to videos on YouTube where people do mini-turbos forgot that the main important thing in you don't have to go three meters wide you are going to be slow if you do that. So it's and then if you want to improve just start the harder techniques. Because if you don't do