- [Narrator] This program is presented by University of California Television. Like what you learn? Visit our website or follow to keep up with the latest UCTV programs. (melancholy guitar music) - We went into the homes of 32 families. The families all had parents who worked. Both parents worked outside the home at least 30 hours a week. - And we designed an that really addressed the questions of how people use their how they use space, how they interact with their material of middle class, dual come - Come in. - I like this chair. - We systematically documented what people have in their homes, where they keep it. - And it was that first day, when I- I saw he had a camera. He's taking pictures. We had tidied up. When I heard the first cupboard open, and I went, &quot;Oh, no. &quot;He's taking pictures of the All these little figurines - The archeologist counted in every single space, every single room. So we have a document that are in kids rooms, that are in kitchens and living rooms. It's really fascinating. - One of the things that we is that contemporary US households have more possessions per household than any society in global history. Hyperconsumerism is like garages, corners of home offices, and even sometimes in the and bedrooms, and the kitchen, and the top of the dining room table. - Shower stalls. - The shower stalls. We find lots of stuff. - [Elinor] Piles - Piles of stuff. - Mountains. - And it's clearly in creating some significant particularly the mothers. - The finding was that women and saw clutter, and and remarked on the effect of mainly that it was very, it was like an ever-present, continuing, ongoing burden for them to manage, that those women when we looked at the cortisol levels of the women, their cortisol was very high. - So this is yes, a very crowded bedroom. All the reading that - [Elinor] A house and nobody cares. - [Lyn] That's right, that's right. - It was generally the case, that men, they didn't even remark on the clutter. So there's a greater tendency if it bothers you, if you are the one who's responsible for tidying it up. - We have lots of stuff. We have many mechanisms by which we accumulate possessions in our home. But we have few rituals for unloading these objects, - Things come in from all sides. They really do. They come in from gifts, and holidays, and from relatives, and school, and treasures, as I call them. I have always been a treasure hoarder. So a rock, or a branch, or something, and my kids then ended up that same way. - There are a lot of to consume, and obviously this is the entire advertising industry, right? Millions of dollars invested (melancholy guitar music) This book is really meant how we consume objects, to think about the number and types of toys we consume and give to our children. - The United States has 3.1% but consumes 40% of the world's toys. - [Elinor] Of course, have something that is similar to toys. But the sheer quantity of from the cross-cultural point of view, and how the toys spill out is also staggering. - We found in the study that were in living rooms. They were in spare bedrooms. They were in their own rooms, of course. They were in kitchens. They were even in, sometimes, - [Elinor] There's some blurriness to the idea of a toy, because the parents have a lot of sentimental involvement in these toys as parents. One of the things we soon realized, is that the toys themselves as well as for the children. The house actually had a kind of child culture about it as a whole, where it became a child-centered house. - Some of it's nostalgia, right? I mean, Snoopy, he's a cultural icon. How many children in the contemporary. I think Snoopy's almost an I think the sheer and fairly inexpensive array of objects that are out there, this over the last 50 years. We've found cheaper ways Because of that, there's more available. The reality is that we're on children's material culture, on toys, than ever before in the (upbeat music) One of the chapters of looking at what people what they have on the shelves by way of what we found and stockpiled household goods. We walked into some family in addition to refrigerators being packed full of convenience foods, the freezer that was in the garage as part of that secondary refrigerator which is not uncommon in was also stocked full of - If you brought someone from Rome, or from a town in Sweden, the size of the and then walked them to the garage, and they saw the size of the they would be pretty astonished. The refrigerator then becomes something to think about culturally. Why do we have these big refrigerators? What is that saying about - Dual-income families with children face scheduling challenges and that's how do I going to the grocery, around afternoon pickups, that emerge from coordinating two or three calendars on a daily basis. Parents perhaps find that it's easier to shop maybe only once a Fewer shopping trips, when we go do them. So hitting the big box - I think that's true. We still do go to Costco. When we're there we'll go, &quot;Oh, yes, we need 96 granola bars. &quot;We need them.&quot; - Forty batteries. - And we still have some If I were to walk through you're right, I'd still have even though we don't that need those batteries anymore. - In addition to this, in garages and in pantries with pallets of bottled and paper towels, and cleaning products, multiple versions of the same things. (upbeat music) - The reason for having having such large freezers was because we were putting inside boxed items that were - Chicken nuggets, frozen French fries, things that could be cooked, that could be prepared from cold to hot in very little time. - There are now on average 400 linear feet of frozen foods available and these big grocery stores. This contributes, actually, to the way that families are consuming their meals. With so much prepackaged we're getting more and more family dinners that are actually these The kids insist on eating because they know that with this prepackaged food. Our data show that only one in six meals is eaten together by the entire family. - Families have brought into this idea that use of these foods in the preparation of meals, at the end of otherwise busy and hectic In the end, some of the families are only shaving off - We started doing something. We go to a business that and we &quot;don't cook.&quot; But you package all the This is what your typical - Oh, right. - So you package all the You get the meat. Then you get the whole, all - That's fantastic. - You un-freeze it, and then It's absolutely fabulous. - That's very good. - It's certainly a strong pattern. We saw this recurringly not all of them, but many of them. It really indicates these that have changed over the We want to go to the store This is particularly true with both parents working and It's a lot of work, shopping with kids. This is a way to get around that. But there are very real (upbeat music) This book is very much We used some 20,000 digital photographs for 32 families' homes as We went in and looked and how families were using their homes, the kinds of things that they imported into various home spaces. Kitchens, for example, were these centers of intensive and frequent activity. - If you look at the data points of where family members you'll see lots and lots of little dots that are in the kitchen. That's because the kitchen is used for almost everything else but- No, it's used for eating. But it's also used for If there's going to be the clock is going to be in the kitchen, because the kitchen is what Anthony calls the command center of the house. - Everything transpires in kitchens. Activities are organized. Schedules are coordinated. Plans are made for the next day. Meals are cooked. Kids are doing homework in kitchen spaces. Very, very intensively used. A lot of the material culture in kitchens speaks to this logistical center of everyday family life. - I think of the table itself It's the place where even when there are wonderful designed for the kids to do inevitably they're out That's convenient for They can do child care. They can multitask with dinner - That is our refrigerator, I mean, I look at these to see this stuff. Because these were treasures - It's amazing how the refrigerator is a site of memories and plans. - Yes, this is memories. - One of the studies that was look at the family refrigerator door as a major site of this kind of nostalgia and sentimentality for the family, looking at how many different photographs and other personal things and lots of little things about the family that went on the door, so much that you can't even see the door. The door is just filled the family history. - There seems to be a kind how much stuff is on the and how much stuff is in the broader home. - There's still, these are but those are one timers. - And these are school things. - This is all, if your how do you call in sick, because I never remember how to do that. A school calendar for the days. - And this pizza? - These are pizza Now, look at- This is going to, this and it never, ever leaves. I think the expiration date - We also found some interesting patterns that emerged in bathrooms. Bathrooms are where we So we put on our face. We put on our clothes. We look at ourselves. We check in. We make sure that everything's there. We psyche up for the They end up being these where we're anticipating the day to come. - Not only is our fridge the site of, but our bathroom mirror has Because we have a really So anything that kids are is taped up there. Because I won't always open the fridge first thing in the morning, but I will always brush my teeth, and look at myself in the mirror. - Bathrooms are also contested resources in families' homes. A lot of the families' had only one bathroom. When you have to cycle within a span of about 30 to 45 minutes before shuffling everyone it can be stressful. You're coordinating opportunities As a result, we found that and family strategies for dealing with this very finite and limited resources. Stack multiple people in there. Because of that, these of child socialization. - One of the clear ideals of these parents is to create a master bedroom environment that represents a retreat, from the crazy chaos in - This is perhaps one of rooms in the home. Not a lot of activities were But what you might find surprising is that this, out of all other home spaces, this was prioritized more frequently as a space for remodeling. In 2004, the average cost in the greater Los Angeles area, was about $80,000. - Their money would have on places that are clear bathrooms that are overly or kitchens that are often described by the family members too out of date. - I can think of nothing speaks to the significance We might even think of the master suite as a symbolic space. If they're like my family, you just crash. You fall asleep because you're But you get to wake up in that space. These are spaces that were look more resort-like. They were intentionally This is opportunity for parents to wake up in a space that looks than the rest of their home. For that reason, because of that, parents might have conferred some kind of restorative benefits out of this. This is a place to charge your batteries, a place of refuge to prepare yourself before you go back out that is contemporary American (upbeat music)