The Earth is 4.54 billion years old, plus birthdays. In that time, Earth has undergone some we covered 4.2 billion years of that history, ball of lava to a pale orange wasteland to a But Earth's saga is like a TV drama with some of the most incredible stuff So, for those of you who were disappointed we might want to stick around. And for anyone just scientists visited Earth at various stages in its I'm Alex McColgan and you are watching Astrum. imagine how the planet might have a reminder: to answer these questions, we'll although the job gets easier when our timeline Not all of the science is settled, and some to the best of our current knowledge, this Now, back to our story... Our intrepid alien to Earth during the Devonian Period and are pretty Obviously, they need to see what happens next. Earth is now in its Early Permian Period. the continents of Euramerica and Gondwana have The collision of these large continents, powerful tectonic forces that create a mountain How tall are they? Well, Mount Everest is in the size to the modern Himalayas. In fact, they are climate of Pangaea. Located near the Earth's just beneath the Equatorial Rainy Belt. And our these giant mountains on the entire continent. However, there is a flipside to all this rain shadow to the north, which creates Basically, when air travels over tall causing precipitation, so that by the time it We see this effect today in the Gobi Desert, which Pangaea's formation is a great example of how landmasses and oceans but its weather as well. world's climate. During the Early Permian, Ice Age dating back tens of millions of years - Our leading theory for this cooling is that the raised Earth's oxygen levels and diminished greenhouse effect (with Milankovitch Cycles Paleozoic Icehouse, vast glaciers built up Yet, by the Early Permian, the planet The polar ice caps are retreating, but glaciers ranges. So, between the climate disruptions caused global temperatures, lifeforms on Earth Since our aliens last visited, the formation called the Panthalassic, or "universal sea," as The Panthalassic is so big, it occupies almost 70% and, if possible, see what's down there with their in. As it turns out, the safety provided by said and nautili remain in abundance, Earth's oceans Among them is one of the strangest predators an 8-meter-long sharklike fish with a whorl of Most likely, this whorl is an adaptation for Our aliens have seen some strange creatures is definitely one of the strangest. And honestly, I, personally, have always dreamed of a life. But until that day comes, our best evolve under various conditions Earth was a different planet back then! In Ganymede and Enceladus may have subsurface oceans on land, insects have begun to flex some including permocupedae, and meganisoptera, an a dragonfly with a wingspan about the size of Another, frankly bizarre, newcomer is diplocaulus, "Look at how fascinating these Earth aliens are!", But by far, the most interesting quadruped Although it is often mistaken for a dinosaur sail-backed predator is actually a synapsid, more Believe it or not, the sail could be an adaptation or animals that absorb heat from which regulate temperature internally. (You Dimetrodon's sail contains a network of blood more quickly in sunlight - an early step toward all kinds of climatic changes, this ability advantageous . It's a wonderful illustration of order to survive. Our planet's climate is like as corresponding outputs. Planets like ours And interestingly, as a planet changes over time, Impressed by Earth's development, our alien million years. Unbeknownst to them, they Earth's history - and I'm not talking about the A much more catastrophic extinction takes place Triassic Extinction Event. Our leading theory is CO-2 into the atmosphere, which raise global This catastrophic event eradicates about 70% all marine species, a mass die-off unmatched Yet, as devastating as this is in the short a whole lot of evolutionary diversification among the beneficiaries is a group of reptiles Our alien scientists return to Earth during the Although Pangaea managed to hang by now, it is starting to drift apart, due to The Earth is made up of about 15 to 20 toward or away from each other at the (Which, interestingly enough, is pretty As plates move away from each other, they open So, beginning around 200 million years ago, smaller supercontinents: in the North, Laurasia to the South, Gondwana includes modern-day South A narrow body of water called the Tethys grow into the North Atlantic Ocean, as Ridge continue to push the landmasses Antarctica and Madagascar have begun to separate While the continental landmasses still look alien visitors already have an inkling of where The climate of the period is scorching hot. than they are today, with atmospheric CO-2 contributed to all this CO-2? Very likely, the Triassic Extinction Event and a subsequent die-off roles. Global temperatures are so warm that ice the poles are covered in forests, which likely With so little water locked up in glacial ice, today, with the peak happening right around this gymnosperms such as conifers have become one like the extinct Araucaria mirabilis, represented look eerily similar to what you'd find today. vegetation with woody cylindrical trunks grow heartily in the Late Jurassic's expansive alien scientists step out of their ship, they spot a pack of towering sauropods. Not one of the most massive terrestrial animals in and weighing 40 metric tons. Getting over their these goliaths are in fact herbivorous grazers, But their relief is short-lived. Stalking some a formidable species of carnosaur nearly 10 meters Luckily, our alien visitors escape their brush the rest of their tour from the safety they encounter a feathered archaeopteryx, an avian Archaeopteryx is also sharing the skies with dimorphodon and the crested Pterodactylus. These smaller animals and invertebrates in their toothy, their expedition for lunch in one of the more unassuming emerging from a burrow that catches the creature called taeniolabis. Taeniolabis and other (named after their unusual teeth, which they'd are some of the earliest mammals. And while they there's something different about them as they with one another. These little rodent-like especially compared to pea-brained dinosaurs, and called fur to keep them insulated. Little do descendants of these humble, scurrying creatures the Earth. But that chapter will have to wait for worn out from the scrapes and scares of this trip, diversity and adaptability. Who knows? They I hope you enjoyed this second chapter interested in learning more about Earth's of Earth's history would you like to visit if If you're an alien scientist exploring an ancient sometimes how you explore can be just as important that's cluttered with tabs can be a real energy Opera One - the desktop browser that's the sponsor allowed me to organise my work quite so well, for work, play, or whatever I want. I wanted the the hassle of picking and paying for one. Opera also has an adblocker that changes your browsing after turning on the ad block. Chaos into its AI assistant that was integrated right Selecting things on the page allowed me to ask level of integration I'd never seen before but One for yourself by downloading it using my link Thanks for watching! Did you miss the previous A big thanks to my patrons and members for and have your name added to this list, check All the best and see you next time.