Many apps have failed to get a deal on Shark Tank, Ring is probably the most famous. It came on Shark Tank seeking The sharks said no, and Ring would later But other apps have experienced this, and in this And it's fun to gush over app success So stick to the end for a key that WILL apply to any entrepreneur 1. Coffee Meets Bagel That's right, Coffee Meets It appeared on Season 6, episode 13 where the sisters and co-founders of the app came Like those twins in The Shining. The sharks were of course skeptical but the sisters explained their USP. Instead of your tinders and bumbles where users bagel you get shown a curated shortlist of Also, you can give the app access to your Facebook account where it will take mutual friends It's not mandatory, though - you can register with since in real life, it's more common to date So it's meant for something more serious. It sounds like an app-based arranged marriage, At the time of pitching, they already were on track to make a million So the business model and the app were validated. But they didn't want to grow, they wanted to Unfortunately, none of the sharks wanted Mark kind of offered something. I'll be honest, for 30 million, I would've But the sisters only opened their mouths to say no They would go on to raise funds multiple sources estimate that coffee meets bagel is worth around 150 million dollars with It's got millions of users and is apparently right next door to me. In terms of revenue, Pavlok but in terms of balls, it's the biggest. It appeared on episode 29 of season 7, and the moment I saw the founder I knew he wouldn't get any money, His name is Maneesh Sethi and he was His product was an app + wearable Iit's a wristband that delivers a non lethal You control the current level via a mo bile app The sharks started laughing And they tried it on and he Then he and Mark start arguing because the studies Maneesh cited were not done using Pavlok So Mark called Pavlok a scam And Maneesh pulls this expression. One by one all the sharks went out, except Kevin. Mr Wonderful. And if you know Shark Tank, you don't want Kevin to be the only So Kevin makes an offer and Maneesh says this: He also said that his main goal is to with Kevin as an investor, the business And that's why I think he's got balls, to say that on TV where it will be seen But it's a fairly happy ending. As of 2024, Pavlok is still alive and kicking, I found an article on a blog dedicated from 2022 that said it was already And according to GetLatka it made 760k in 2023 but decent sized subreddit, which I'm happy for the guy, but I am surprised he's made so much money selling In fact, I'm not surprised - I'm shocked! Shocked at how well placed this pitch is. Pitch entrepreneurs grow past 5 -10 million dollars We've worked with over 30 These businesses were stuck where no ready-made To continue growing, they had If your business is also currently stuck at this 5 - 10 million level and you want to There's a link in description to sign up for We'll dissect your current constraints about whether custom software is your answer. And if yes, we decide if we can work together. If it's not, you just saved yourself Apply through the link and we'll be in touch. I'm only taking three of these calls per month, and it's first come first served, so Back to the video. 3. Simple Habit Annual revenue of $34 million, We jump to episode 3 of season Kim YunHa was seeking 600k for 5% of the company. Simple Habit is a meditation marketplace app. That's the real USP. Instead of how a lot of other meditation apps the focus, on Simple Habit users can browse from Some cool figures YunHa shared: They already had 500,000 users They had raised 2.8 million dollars So she didn't really need the money. Which is why when a couple of the sharks made her Then we got a couple of iconic scenes. First, Mark calls her a gold digger. And then Richard Branson goes white knight on him. Lovely. Anyways, no shark tank deal, but for an undisclosed amount in 2023 to Under new management, the app is said to be with a million downloads on Google Play Store Meanwhile, YunHa founded another seven figure which achieved $1.86 million in annual 4. Chexology We're going way back to the Derek Pacque was a recent business school graduate The problem: In winter, when people wore they'd have to hold on to it or dump it with I've lost a few umbrellas this way, and a So Derek's solution which was called CoatChex at a photo of you when you handed in your coat Then you pay a small fee and you're done. Unlike the previous three entries, CoatChex was And wherever you approach investors without So despite the fact that and a plan for distribution Except Mark who wanted 33% for 200k, Derek called his business partner, who was Then he went back to the sharks and said he was seeking investment too soon and would Basically, no thanks. Fast forward to today and coatchex according to multiple sources has Checking their site, they've grown valet services, equipment rentals and of And from zero locations during the shark with a few clients in the UK and Australia It doesn't snow in Sydney so no down there- but of all the white people Don't believe me? Check out this clip 5. Scan season 5, where Garrett Gee was seeking 1 million That meant this man was asking In slippers. So what does Scan do? It helps users easily scan A simple enough product, but to be fair, Which is why when Garett was asked how many He showed a live counter that was already He also shared that the previous month the And then the big question - what is the USP here? Garett explains that with Scan, businesses can create custom codes based So if I were a business owner, create a custom QR code that links Garett said they were already making 30K a month Very fucking smart. But 30k per month isn't so impressive So the sharks went out, and had a feeling QR codes would soon become It's not a knock on Mark, it just shows And no one could have predicted what In 2014, Scan was sold to Snapchat for the valuation during the shark tank episode. And I love how Garett is no a serial #hustler He and his wife sold their belongings a youtube channel called the bucket according to an article, the channel's So happy for you, Garett. So that's the last example. Now you're green with jealousy, let's see what The Shark Tank Effect Basically, it doesn't matter just appearing on the show is going to Even the entries on this list have sections on their platforms dedicated to Why? They want that SEO, baby! It's called the shark tank effect, of HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS of people seeing Doesn't sound as catchy though, Every entrepreneur in my list had a great past the MVP stage - even coatchex was like But you can have the world's best app, and if nobody knows about it, You need eyeballs. So shark tank is a very extreme example But if you're building an app, there are so many Appsumo Product hunt Reddit LinkedIn Consider paid ads. And so much more. Doesn't mean you hit all of them But since you don't have unlimited energy, find Don't just dump your app I'm not promoting myself here, but just in my last micro SaaS ideas video, I Someone from one of the SaaS entries cause it was directing leads to them and Before I get spammed, I don't think entries because that would make If you want to just sponsor the and I give your product a quick But to everyone else, the takeaway here is you First, you need something to build validating, and marketing at the same time. As for what to build, what to We always go back to finding a Check out this video where can turn to to find your million-dollar problem. Meanwhile, please do me a favor and subscribe, That way this message will reach more people I want to help more non-tech entrepreneurs Cost-effectively And without tearing their hair out And make them aware of all the headaches and And so for that to happen, I Doesn't cost you anything, and it tells the know what he's talking about, and this Thank you so much, and let's find