- You believe in Jesus and you're Jewish? If you knew biblical Hebrew, if you only knew the Hebrew Bible, if you could read it and then you would know that and that was something And then my investigation to a Master's degree to a PhD to the beginning of a second PhD. And the more that the more I studied how the New Testament is reading the Old Testament, the more I realized that I grew up in New Jersey, very well aware of our Jewish identity. I do remember that whenever my the worst thing he could My mom started to become and she started to read the Bible. She started to read the Old Testament, what we called it She became more and more curious intellectually with Jesus. She came home with &quot;the very &quot;Murray, I've been I've been reading. I've been studying and My father started to cry. He said, &quot;I thought I married a Jew. How could you betray our people? How could you do this? Please tell me, why do But please don't show Because, of course, we Christians believe in the New Testament. The New Testament must be anti-Semitic! As she read to him Isaiah 53 and he stopped her and he I don't wanna hear the New Testament!!&quot; And she stopped and she this is our side of the book. This is not the New Testament. This is a prophecy from 700 Well, my father was in shock. Over the next several months, had happened in our family. So suddenly, up until felt very insistent upon They were very clear and now, suddenly, they start and it was very confusing to me. I didn't understand. I thought that my mom and Something definitely was wrong with them. And I remember them My mom and dad decided I was with my mom's It was a blue Mercedes and she says to me, &quot;So Seth, when are you going to accept I didn't know quite what to say, but I said, &quot;Linda&quot;, I'm young. I want to live a little. I want to experience life. I want to enjoy.&quot; And she looked at me, she that Jesus could come I said, &quot;okay&quot;. Now, we're on the highway. She's like, &quot;he could And I said, &quot;okay, so what?&quot; She said, &quot;well, you know what happened if he came back right now?&quot; I said, &quot;no.&quot; &quot;I would be taken up and and you would be in the going 55 miles per hour and you would crash, die, and go to hell!&quot; This is true. &quot;Jesus, don't come back.&quot; &quot;Jesus, don't come back!&quot; &quot;Jesus, don't come back!!&quot; I was pleading, don't come back. And so that was when my prayer life began. I had very, very serious childhood asthma. I was on heavy medications I was on was called 'Prednisone' and prednisone was something It also affected my shape. I remember looking in My face was swollen up. It was red. I already believed in my heart of hearts that I was an ugly kid. I was the ugliest kid in my class and so I grew up seeing myself as ugly. And then with the prednisone, I just remember detesting myself. There's nothing worse in the world than to look at the mirror And again, it wasn't just an ugliness of my physical appearance. It was the ugliness of my own weaknesses, my inability I was convinced that God hated me, too, and I started to see that And so I went through this And so it was as if I would be born again and then born again-again, and and born again-again-again. And no matter what I did, this tread sense of terror that I was a dirty, rotten that God hated me, and he was gonna send me to hell and it really scared me and I had no hope. Several years later, and the speaker, he was a pastor. And for whatever reason, and it was odd because he didn't know me and there were a couple And he kept looking at me and all the things I hope nobody all the things I hated about myself, all the things I believed And so I'm sitting there And at the end of the service, I just remember him just I stood up and I looked forward and it's as if I saw Yeshua (Jesus) and his arms were stretched his arms were always He wanted to strike me for the first time, his arms were open and all he wanted to do is to hug me. All he wanted to do is embrace me. And it was as if I heard, The scars are for you. These wounds are for you. Of course, I love you. Of course, I accept you. I came for sinners.&quot; And I guess it was the first time that I recognized that and I think for the first time in my life, I no longer saw myself as ugly. I no longer believe that lie And for the first time, I actually truly felt and I knew that God loved me. The chains broke. I was new. Well, as I started to about the fact that I was a new creation, that it was something that I wanted to share. And one of the things as I shared with my family, you believe in Jesus and you're Jewish? This just can't be, and in fact, you're saying that Jesus is the Messiah based on the Old Testament. Who do you think you are? Do you know better than the rabbis? In fact, if you really could read Hebrew, you would know that you're that Jesus couldn't be the Messiah. You're trusting on a I remember thinking to I have to know biblical Hebrew and I have to know it really, really well. After I finished my first PhD, I started another PhD in I can put all of my intellectual and the more that I studied the more I studied how the New Testament is reading the Old Testament, the more I realized This is true, not just on a heart level. Not just because I know from my sin. Not just because I know that and hope and that I know that Not because of me, but because of Him, but there's the other side of it, and it's the head side of it. That God calls us as a people to search, to search the scriptures, Jesus is the Messiah, and I'm to the extent that I've that to understand Moses, to understand the writings, the greatest Jew who ever lived, the Savior of our people