- This is a pop-pop boat And I've seen various for how it works. So, I thought the only is to build a transparent version. This channel is rapidly becoming the Transparent Version of Things Channel, but anyway, let's have a look at the You've got this little coming out the back, and if you follow those pipes they come out at the back of the boat, under the level of the water. The first thing you have to do is fill the tank and the pipes with water. You then need to light In this case we are using Very quickly the pop-pop boat starts to make this popping sound and Now, according to the common explanation the that tank remains full of water, until it reaches boiling point. And then you get this which forces the water down the tubes. As that steam continues to expand, that follows the water down the tube. The tubes are much cooler than the tank. So, the steam condenses back into water, that reduces the pressure inside the tank. And so the water is All this steam condenses, and you're once again left Once back inside the hot tank, boiling happens again and But with the glass version we should be able to see if The first thing you notice actually is that it's quite hard to with no air trapped inside there. Look, if I don't make any in funny ways to remove air bubbles, this is how much water Most of it's actually air. It is possible to get rid by tipping the boat upside down, whilst just squeezing water in, until you essentially flush but you don't do that with So, my assumption is, actually there's probably the metal pop-pop boat during operation. The first thing you notice is that this little pocket of Thanks by the way to Limo Holland and the Scientific Glassblowing Team at the University of Southampton So, I imagine two things That little bubble of air is expanding, because air expands as but also some water even at these temperatures below The gas cavity continues to expand, until it reaches these two tubes. And actually it continues down into the tubes, but you'll notice there's of water still in the tank. And then at some point, the water in the tube and forth inside the tube. By the way, the batteries are only there, 'cause the boat was though I do appreciate, it looks like a really dodgy with not so well hidden batteries, but I promise they're Perhaps the oscillations would occur in different places in the tube, depending on how full the Here's a test where I to fill up the tank. I just make sure the two tubes are full. Look, there's only a In this setup once the it fills the two tubes almost entirely. There is still a tiny bit which is slowly going down as But eventually you do seem right at the very exit And that does seem to be But to go back to the full tank test, well the oscillations still not in and out of the tank. So, at least with this that's where the action is. On the surface, this seems quite different you tend to see online, where the tank fills up with water, then fills up with steam, But although the reality I believe the method of The best way to think about it, and actually it's not is in terms of resonance. This packet of gas inside the If you squeeze it, it will push back. And so if you do it in the right way, it will oscillate. It will resonate at its natural frequency, a bit like the air inside boyoyong. But you'll notice that the air resonating, inside this glass syringe is very damped. The oscillations die away very quickly. So, we need some kind of to keep that oscillation going. And of course that energy but how exactly? Well, when you have something oscillating with simple harmonic motion and you want to increase the amplitude or at least stop the amplitude going down, because of damping then obviously needs to be applied Like you need to push and but you also need to Like if you push, when the gas is pulling and you pull when the gas is pushing, that's not going to work. Whenever the gas is expanding, the engine needs to be and whenever the gas is contracting, the engine needs to be In technical language that means that the force applied is a quarter of a wavelength outta phase with the displacement of the oscillator. But where does this force come from? Well, it comes from a And that makes sense, like if you just uniformly heated up, the gas and water inside the engine, well, some things will expand and the temperature will change, but it won't oscillate. For it to oscillate, you need some exchange That's how any heat engine works. For example, the Stirling engine that I use in my video explaining entropy, link in the comment in the description, in this case as the gas well the tubes are much colder and when a gas gets colder, the pressure goes down, especially if it's water vapor, because some of that into liquid water, drastically But of course as the gas contracts, it ends up back inside the tank, where it's hotter. As the gas heats up the pressure goes up. And so it expands back into the pipes and that cycle continues. At this point, you may have worked out doesn't need two pipes. It will work just fine with a single pipe, but having two makes it You squeeze water into one pipe and it expels air out of the other. With the glass pop-pop boat, you don't get the popping sound. That's because with the metal boat, you have this plate of metal on top. And as the pressure goes up and down that metal plate flexes up and down, causing a popping sound. But there's nothing really So, you don't get the popping sound. The final thing we need how is it that water going in and out of the exhaust tubes at the 'Cause it's not obvious, like intuitively it's Everything that happens in one direction, then immediately happens in reverse. So, surely the boat should on the spots and not Well, it's actually reasonably common for a reciprocating mechanism to lead to non reciprocating motion. Take for example the bristlebot. The bristlebot works by vibrating the head of a toothbrush up and down. And that's obviously reciprocating motion, but it leads to forward If I slowly press down on it leans forwards on the bristles. And if I slowly let go, it leans back up again. And so that reciprocal motion, leads to no change in position, but if you do it quickly, well, first of all I press down and that causes the And if I quickly release, well the bristlebot springs up and the bristles slide forward. And so with each cycle, the bristlebot moves forward. So, how does the reciprocating mechanism in the pop-pop boat Well, one suggestion is that as the jet of it's collimated, it's all moving in the same direction and because every action has that causes the boat to move forward. Whereas when the water is it's drawn in from all directions. So, the reverse motion but actually that argument doesn't stand, because all we really care about is the momentum of the water that's the water inside the tube. And it's the same mass as going backwards. The real answer is that the boat can continue to glide forward with the new momentum that it has. Whereas when the water yes, there is an opposite reaction force that pulls the boat back. But at the end of the suction phase, there's essentially a collision. The water slows down inside the tubes, because it's colliding with and the air is enclosed So in other words, the reason the water that's is because it's colliding with the boat and it's imparting momentum on the boat, which exactly cancels as it was being sucked in. In summary during the expulsion phase, there's no cancellation of the momentum, being imparted by the expelled water. But during the suction phase Altogether that leads to a net Anker sent me this portable power station to do a quick review at the they are paying me. It's important that you know that, but let's just get into the details. It's the Anker 521 and it's So, it's an absolute beast. It'll give you 200 watts of It's UK for me. But if you bought it in America, If you bought it in It also has the car charger. That'll do 200 watts as well. It's got fast charging USB ports and it's got a fancy light as well. My laptop maxes out just if I'm using it and charging So, it can easily handle that. It can also handle small if you're gonna take that on holiday or you can pump up your In terms of capacity, you can charge your iPhone 12 20 times, my beefy laptop, maybe three times, it's saying 3.7 hours to That's pretty much in line but it will get you up to in about an hour and It uses lithium-ion phosphate technology, which is the longest on the market. You can charge cycle this thing 3000 times and you'll still have 80% of charge left, which is six times better, than standard lithium iron technology. It comes with its own charger obviously, but because it's got a USB-C you can actually do it in reverse. You can charge the power station from USB-C as a backup option. I'm often in the market for And as you can see Anker is And that's not just me. Anker is recognized, as the world's number one They've been in the business for 10 years. They've sold over 200 million Next, time you go on a camping think about taking one of these things and when you're not camping, keep it in your home The link to buy the Anker is in the description. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did think about it's the one the algorithm (upbeat music)