The African continent is splitting in two. What is happening? The Earth's surface is not static; it's a movements of the underlying tectonic plates. The theory of plate tectonics has revolutionized including the formation of continents, mountains, One of the most intriguing questions posed verge of splitting into two continents; mounting a day when the entire region of the Horn of and drift into the ocean. The evidence comes from studies conducted scar known as the Rift Valley (also the cradle fissures that are opening even today in the This video, prepared as usual by Insane Curiosity of this fascinating phenomenon! "Roll intro" Just over 100 years ago, in 1912, a German Alfred Wegener made a discovery that would Looking at a map of the Earth and examining continents more closely, he noticed a certain coast of South America and the western coast two pieces of a puzzle. The scientist then conceived the idea that could have been joined into a single block, He called this hypothetical supercontinent Greek means &quot;all lands.&quot; Building on this idea of a supercontinent, later become popularly known as &quot;continental be free over time to move, gather, and drift His theory was still incomplete and entirely for the mechanisms underlying such continuous What we know today is that the Earth's surface the mantle and the Earth's crust. This shell is divided into several plates, tectonic plates or lithospheric plates. There are seven major plates and many smaller Not only continents but also oceans lie on Some boundaries between two plates are found hidden on the ocean floor. For most of the Phanerozoic Eon - from 500 plates gathered in the supercontinent Pangea by the same plants and animals. Things began to change about 180 million years Antarctic Ocean, and Indian Ocean began to One after the other, the plates, increasingly began to drift apart from each other. Scientists began to understand this in the and fossils of the separation zones, but the Even Wegener, had he known what lies inside the continents, but it was only about forty that geologists began to realize that the rocks are in an almost liquid state. In the mantle, the mass of hotter rock at and then sinks back down, creating circular These motions move the plates a bit like a the motion of each plate is decidedly chaotic... some collide with each other while others For example, the European and American plates same speed at which our fingernails grow. The Atlantic Ocean that separates the two There are other points on Earth where the In these cases, one of the plates may sink with each other, creating mountain ranges The boundaries between the plates are therefore that most volcanoes are found and many earthquakes Just to quantify the extent of these movements, per year towards Australia. In turn, Australia moves towards Asia at 7.5 will merge with Indonesia and the Philippines The central-western Pacific plate moves 11 towards Eurasia, while the eastern part of eastward, at a speed of 6 centimeters. The central and eastern parts of Asia point per year. India continues to push northward against a continuous uplift of the Himalayas. Latin America continues, at 3 centimeters it from Africa about 65 million years ago. Africa, returning to the protagonist of this squeezing the Mediterranean: Africa and Europe year, while the old continent moves northeastward However, it is not the overall movement of us, but the fact that the continent is likely Peninsula due to the continuous tectonic activity of Africa could thus separate from the rest basin. A process, of course, lasting millions of That the separation process is still ongoing appearance of two incredible rifts. The first one occurred in 2005 in Ethiopia, the Afar desert region, a 50 km long and 20 In early 2005, a huge fracture began to open desert, an extensive expanse of arid and vegetation-free Over the months, this huge fracture began areas. The phenomenon caused concern, but at the who rushed to study the phenomenon after learning of a change that in the future will forever continent. The objection was: how could such a huge thing It seemed truly unbelievable... but in the that areas subject to intense volcanic activity, plates, can suddenly dissolve into large sections, &quot;Hey, guys, just a moment before we continue... BE sure to join the Insane Curiosity Channel... Click on the bell, you will help us to make The second fissure, 15 meters deep, 20 meters instead (apparently) in 2018 in Kenya. The incredible images of the large and very the Nairobi-Narok highway and also strong world at the time. What was astonishing, in this case as well, formed. The blame, unlike what was determined in Ethiopia, According to experts, weeks of precipitation and more superficial layers of the soil, exposing thousands or millions of years ago. A fissure that remained unnoticed because of the distant past. And that was suddenly exposed when the deep Apart from the exceptional nature of the phenomenon, of the fissure has, however, contributed to that one day the African plate may split into The Kenyan rift manifested itself within a the most tectonically active regions in the to develop already in the Miocene about 25 incredible length of almost 6000 km from the A depression within which - and along its activity often occurs, responsible among other as Kilimanjaro and Mount Kenya. Since the 1970s, there has been increasing into two parts - called the Nubian plate and African Rift. The Nubian plate includes most of the African Rift. The Somali plate, much smaller, is instead As the Nubian and Somali plates continue to splitting the African continent in two. According to geologists, four countries in Kenya, and Tanzania - are destined in the form a new continent... as has already happened in the past with Madagascar Geologists and geophysicists are still debating The current leading theory is that mantle beneath Kenya and Ethiopia, gradually thinning The thinning of the lithosphere, in turn, flood basalts - which send lava flowing from fractured the fragile continental crust into Viewed from above, these faults, together rifts and elongated basins separated by regions But how fast is all this happening? GPS measurements show that through the East are diverging at an average speed of 7 mm Today, the fissure remains above sea level, will sink, and eventually oceanic waters could from the mainland. It is still unclear if this will happen, but of years. The splitting of the African continent would as it would influence the movement and interaction This could lead to changes in the frequency earthquakes and volcanic activity, in other The formation of a new ocean and the consequent likely have a significant impact on global But we are talking about something that will The ongoing geological processes in the East of the Somali and Nubian tectonic plates, interfere with the duration of our species. Nevertheless, since this geological event useful for studies that could help predict Scientific research, whatever field it operates