In this vocabulary master class, you're going to learn 300 words that you can use in Words in your daily. Speech will help you sound fluent. Just like. A native speaker. Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. I'm sure you're learning English You want to interact with people from around the. World. So first you're going. Trying to learn. 50 essential Travel phrases travel So your banks are packed and Let's talk about all the phrases that Now as a. Tourist, you're going to be using Stores, restaurants or interact Like when you rent a car or book a tour. You can simply say. Say hello because for more when you don't know the person That's the standard greeting in these situations. You could also say hi there. So add there, hi there, hi there. When you go into a restaurant, a store, hi there. Of course you wouldn't wave. I'm just doing that. I guess you could. Hi there. Hello. Now, time specific you could say. Good morning, good afternoon or good evening. Don't say good night because that's So after 4:00 to 6:00 PM, Now only for morning. Native speakers, we drop the good and we just You always say good afternoon, good evening, Now after your greeting, you Your visit so if. You're at a restaurant, you can say hi there. We have a reservation under Forest. Usually the reservations are made You could include the time, but you don't need Or you could approach a Could you please tell me when the Notice how I use Could you please Now don't worry about taking notes because I summarize everything in a In the description. For the link. How about this one? Excuse me, do you carry sunscreen? Do you carry you're. Asking the store if they Now notice excuse me, this but it's what we use to get someone's attention. So if the store person is stalking and then they will stop what So it's used to get attention. Now technically you can say, pardon But pardon me isn't very common In North America we use pardon me So if someones talking to me and. Maybe there's a lot of. Background noise, I might say. Pardon me to ask. Them to repeat. Themselves, but we don't really use it excuse me to get someone's attention now let's. Review all the phrases you need if you. Don't understand someone or if There's a lot of. Background noise. Or maybe they just spoke very quietly. Like I said, pardon me. Pardon me. Now you can also. Say, excuse me? But it's more in a questioning tone. Excuse me, sorry, I didn't catch that. Now you can always say sorry. English isn't my first language. So you're giving them? The. Information they need to know so they can adjust. Because if you tell a native speaker oh sorry just try to speak slower or louder or in a Afraid to say, can you repeat that slower please? The person will not. Be offended or upset if you say Or you can say sorry. I'm not sure what means. That means or if you know the. Specific word you can say. I'm not sure what a transfer means, Can you give me more information? Can you help me understand? Or simply you can say sorry I don't understand, naturally know they need to speak slower, Can you repeat that please? Sorry, I didn't catch that. As a. Tourist, you're going to be spending money you need when you go into a store or when When you're ready to pay, you can just say Now previously the stores would ask you cash or Today. It's assumed you're going so they generally don't ask They will probably just point at the Cash credit. Now there are some St. vendors. A street vendor would be a small shop or It is possible that they only accept cash. But this is. Becoming less and less common. Basically everywhere you go in North America you Vendors because they have On their phones and then their phone. Turns into a payment processor and So even at very small vendors, Card, but of course. Bring a little. Cash with you. You can ask how much is this for one item? How much are these for two or more items? Now, after you pay, they might They might say need a bag or simply bag with Plastic bags are not used at They are banned for environmental reasons. So if you need a bag, most likely Instead of plastic stores use paper bags Or you can get a reusable bag A lot of smaller stores, convenience Plastic. Bags, but the bigger stores. Generally don't. But you can always ask them. Can you give me a bag please? Or I need to buy a bag? Now sometimes I hear. Students say please, I need to buy a bag and But that is not common in North So put please at the end I Please commonly comes at the So you're giving an instruction, Put the receipt in the bag is add please at the beginning to sound more polite. You could also add it at the end after you pay. They might say do you need want a receipt again They don't automatically print receipts. They might just say need a You can say no, it's okay, no thanks. Yes. Please. Now, right before you pay, they might say They may be asking you for a Do you want to donate $1.00 They might ask you if you have a points Or they might ask you if you want to sign up for something like a Walmart MasterCard If you don't understand, just say. No thanks. No thanks, because they're probably just Now if you go into a clothing. Store or a larger store. They will greet you and they'll ask you You can say I'm just looking. I'm just browsing, but in North I'm just looking, thanks. Well. Thanks, I'm just browsing. Oh, I'm just looking. Thanks. Or if you are looking for something specific, Where can I find men's socks? Do you carry sunglasses? If you're buying clothing, you Where are the fitting rooms, the changing You can also ask them what's your return policy Now let's talk about dining out at restaurants. When you go to a restaurant, Hello. Hi there. Good afternoon. Table for two, please. Or you can state we have a reservation under and then your name, generally just Or maybe you want to make a reservation. Can we make a reservation and they'll ask you Table for two, please. Now if you're staying at the Do you have any tables outside? Do you have any tables on the patio? So they mean the same thing. The patio or outside is an area that is outside. So you have inside or outside. Outside is on the patio. And if you're inside and you see you can say can we sit by the window, please? Are there any booths available? So maybe they're putting you at a table with Just ask them. Are there any? Booths available if you have any allergies, you can tell your server I'm allergic Or maybe you see an item, a stir fry can you make that vegetarian? Can you make that vegan? Can you make? That gluten free to order, just say. All. Have. I'll have the stir fry with I'd like. I'd like the stir fry with shrimp please, You may want to modify your order. I'll have the stir fry with Hold the onions without onions. They all mean the same thing. Can you add Pickles? So if you want something Can you make it extra spicy? This is something my husband asks every time. Can you make it extra spicy? Can you? Put the. Sauce on the side so maybe if they On the side. Saw us on the side again, please. Just know that modifying. Your orders is extremely common so don't be shy if you want Ask. They will do it for you. And don't forget to ask for water because as Can you bring us some water please? They might ask you sparkling or still bottled. Does. Say tap water tap. Water. Is fine. Sometimes the restaurants try to Water, but it's the. Water that comes out of the tap, which So if you don't want to pay for water, just say tap water is fine and know that water You can go into any place You might ask them where are Either word choice is fine. Where are the bathrooms? Where are the restrooms? Just don't say where are the toilets. Because we don't use that word for restaurants. Now if you had a big meal and you Can I have A to? Go box, please and they'll bring you a box and you Can I have A to go box please? Or you can say, can you? Wrap this up. So they will take your food, put it. In A to go box and bring it. Back to you. Can you wrap this up? Can you pack this up? They mean the same thing if they try to offer Say just the check please. You can say check or bill. Just the check please. Just the bill, please. Can you bring me the check or bill please? Or you can simply ask where do I pay? Just the check please. Where do I pay? It's 25. Dollars right in North America. Tips. Gratuity are rarely added to the bill When you pay. There'll be an option on the machine. It's not required, but it is highly depending on the formality of the restaurant But again, it isn't required. Now at any restaurant, cafe or store, you can ask And if you know there's Wi-Fi because there's a Now, sometimes the Wi-Fi passwords and maybe you, you didn't hear You can just give them your phone. Can you put it in for me, please? Can you write it down, please? Can you repeat that slowly, please? Now, let's talk about getting around. So how you move from one location to another. You don't really need to know how to your phone has GPS and will But let me share some common phrases with you. Excuse me, do you know how to Excuse me, which way is Central Park? Excuse me, does this train go to Central Park? Excuse me, which train will And noticed I used excuse me is the most common standard in North You could also say excuse. Me, do you mind taking? Our photo because that is the. One thing that people. Still ask other people for not directions Do you mind taking with that ING? Do you mind taking our for photo? Excuse me, could you please take our picture so And as a final. Tip before you pack your bags Remember that North America? Is incredibly diverse and we interact with Every time we leave the house, Our. Work environments our social environments. We interact with non-native English speakers. N Americans in general are friendly. Open and accepting, so don't feel because you have an accent It will not impact your experience. As a tourist. But of course you do. Need to be able to communicate speaker understands and all of these phrases. Will help you do. Just that you might be preparing So now let me share 30 advanced phrases that you Of course, on the IELTS, they're going to ask you. Where do? You live, you can say. I was born and raised in Winnipeg. That's where I was born and raised. Did you know that? I was born and raised to be born and raised in. Now here your verb is to be, so it in the past simple because I was born and raised in and then you Now don't worry about taking notes Free lesson PDF. You can look in the description for the link. You can add on to this to make it sound more I was born and raised in Winnipeg but now? But now I live in Ottawa. Go even further and say I've Now notice I used the. Present perfect. You can also use the present Verbs live, work, and study. And this is for an action that started So in the present perfect continuous. I've. Been living here for over 10 years. You can use 4 plus the specific number of years. You can even say four years, several All of those are possibilities. Now let's move on to tell me about. Your work you can say. I'm an engineer. I know this is a very simple sentence, but The. Article. You must use an article before. Your job title. Most likely you're going to use a or an. But it is possible to use the article the. This is when there is only one position in the For example, I'm. The executive director, so there's. Only one executive director and that's me now if. We use. The it's more common to. Explain what the organization But if you include just your job title with But if you use the make sure Now add to this and add a general Being an engineer is rewarding. Notice here being starts the sentence Jaron statements will absolutely You could say I love using my analytical Love is a verb of preference, so you need Love. Using. You could say. I enjoy collaborating with my team. Enjoy is a verb, a preference, I enjoy collaborating with unique solutions to complex problems. So sure, you could say brainstorming solutions to problems, but adding adjectives You just mentioned something Why not make a contrasting However, this is a transition word and using transition words will However, being an engineer Before we had. Positives about being an engineer, however, A contrast. So now you can share one of Another transition word to make I. Work around the clock to meet tight deadlines. To work around the clock is an expression, and using expressions really shows you understand And of course, to work around the clock, You work non-stop. Now let's talk about hobbies. You can begin with a gerund statement In my opinion, having hobbies is Life. So our jaron statement. Is having hobbies is integral too? But then I just added on to So let's review some opinion words, of course, Notice here from from my perspective, different opinion words you can use these for Now let's get back to hobbies. You made your general statement, your jaron Now you can state your specific hobby. I'm an avid hiker. Or maybe I'm an avid. Cyclist. Guitar player. Tennis player. Whatever your hobby is. So here the structure. Is to be an avid and then you need a strong interest, passion, or Now you can make a gerund statement Hiking gives me the opportunity to disconnect Now notice that the jaron Hiking. You can also start a Jaron statement Guitar. Guitar gives me the opportunity So you're using the verb form. Or the noun form. With guitar, both are correct. Now let's say you don't have any hobbies, don't worry, you can still answer You can say until now my However, I'm considering taking up and So notice we have our present. Perfect. My focus has been because the action Take up. Is the phrasal. Verb we use specifically with Main start and notice. Consider plus gerund. I'm considering that's in the present continuous. I'm considering taking up take is in You could also say. However, I'd love to take up drawing. The expression here is I would Perhaps it's simpler to remember So feel free to use. This alternative. Now, you can still add on a but use the future simple because you're not Give me the. Opportunity to disconnect. You could say. I'm confident that or I'm hopeful that drawing. Will. Give me. The opportunity to disconnect Now let's move on to tell me about your family. You can say I'm from a close Notice that pronunciation close knit. This is an adjective that describes the family. Now this is the same as saying my family and I. Are very. Close my family and I. This is. The subject we, my family and I, are very close. You can say. Everyone in my family gets along because Everyone gets along really well or use Here's a great expression everyone says I take after my mom in looks and When you take after someone it means So if you have a photo of you Oh, I see the similarities you. Take after your mom because your mom came first, and maybe your mom takes after But for personality, you can use this as well. So maybe your dad is very So you take after your dad in personality. A great phrasal verb to use on Now let's move on to talking about travel. You can say I'd love, I would love, to travel, to notice travel to So know when certain verbs Travel. To. A location visit A location? If I could travel anywhere. I'd choose. Egypt. This is our second conditional because it's hypothetical and notice we Don't use the infinitive modal plus base. Verb. Of course you can use a gerund. Statement Visiting Egypt is at the top of my list. Imagine you have a list of places you You can make this more advanced Traveling to Egypt has been at the top An action that started in the Now, why not use an opinion word? From my perspective, the pyramids are So you're sharing an opinion that You can go on and say, and I'd revel To. See them with my own eyes. The expression is to revel in the opportunity, This is a. Very advanced way of saying I would Now, as a bonus, let me share some phrases that you can use when you want to And you realize that. The. Words aren't coming out very well, you can say. What I'm trying to. Say is. And then you can change your thought. You can express your thought a different way. What I mean is what I'm getting Is. To put it another way, in other words, and memorizing four of these because they will be Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where The. Movies, YouTube and the news so you can improve your vocabulary with natural expressions, You'll have me as your personal coach. You can look in the description or you can go to my website and Now let's continue with our lesson. Are you ready? To add 50 plus advanced expressions when you're attending a job interview in English. Let's get started with the first Tell me about yourself. When you're asked this question, you I have more than over or almost 10. Years of. Experience and then you can add as A and your Don't forget that article. It's very important that Title. Now you can also talk about your I have almost 20 years of experience I have more than 15 years of So you can use Field, You have. More than. Or over. That's when the number is greater That's when the number is less than. So if you actually have 13 or it sounds better to use a round Number like 15. So you can say almost 15 years of experience. If you have 13 or 14 now you more about your responsibilities in that role. So you can say in this. Role. Which is your role? As a financial analyst. In this role. You can also. Say in that role, it doesn't matter in or you can say I am responsible for was if am responsible for if you're currently Now after this, we need a gerund verb. So you can use many, many different These are the most common verbs you can use. In this role. I was responsible for managing, overseeing, leading, coordinating, creating, developping, Of course, you can use other verbs, Now streamlining this means improving So as a financial analyst, you experience as a financial In this role, I'm responsible for overseeing a team of 15 people and I'm responsible Now, in a job interview, you absolutely want You don't want to say I have a lot of experience It sounds a lot more impressive if I have significant experience. So those are two. Must know adjectives that you Extensive and significant, which simply is a more formal way of saying a lot of And again after this, you need a gerund verb. You can use any of the verbs I've already shared, and of course you'll have specific verbs for I have extensive experience creating international Now after this expression, I have You could also use a noun. I have significant project management experience. I have significant financial analysis experience. So you don't. Have to use a gerund verb. You could also use a noun if you're asked You can simply. Say I have a Bachelor of, I a Bachelor of Arts, a Bachelor of Now you can end it there, but you School. And the year you graduated, those aren't or well known school or you recently graduated, I have a Bachelor of Science from Cornell. I graduated in 2020. You could also use the verbs received. Or. Obtained which? Are. More formal than have, however, Use the verb. Have I have a bachelor? I have a master, but you can absolutely use received or obtained to I received my Master of Education from Cornell IN2020I obtained my Master of If your credential is a certification, you can use I completed my PMP in 2019. Now notice here I use an acronym PMP if I'm applying for a job in the They know what a PMP is. It's the most prestigious It stands for Project Management Professional. So there's no need to identify an acronym Specific industry. Let's. Talk about your personal strengths. The interviewer is likely going to What would you say are your three best qualities? So here you can use a transition word That's just to introduce the. Point As for my strengths, I'm extremely Now notice here I use the adjective extremely. This is a more convincing You want to avoid those common And it's way more convincing to use a stronger I'm extremely hard working, which sounds Let's review some common adjectives that you're you're going to use the verb to I'm extremely hard working, focused, methodical, proactive A-Team player. For a team player. You can't use an adjective. You're. Simply going to say I'm a team I'm extremely team player that Now let's talk about some specific skills the following skills are rated as the top ten Skills are specific to your industry, but that would be useful to highlight About these skills you can say I have and I have superior, I have excellent, I have excellent time management skills. I have superior communication skills. I have advanced adaptability skills. The other top ten skills are creativity, leadership, interpersonal Ethic for work ethic, we have a. Very specific adjective, and that's strong. I have a strong work ethic. So this is the. Specific expression for work ethic I have a strong work ethic so let's say you want to I have superior communication skills. Now let's say the interviewer wants to know why You could say I'm looking for an opportunity So your project management skills, your skills, whatever the specific skill is. You could also say I'm looking for And then you can talk about a In the IT industry, in the in the marketing sector, you should Don't just say thank you for your time. You should leave them with a really And your. Ability to complete. The job and be an asset to the organization. So you can say I believe that. I know that I'm confident that skills would make me a valuable your organization, and I look forward to Of course, you should take this and adapt but you absolutely want a strong conclusion So now you have 50 plus advanced English expressions that you can use I want you to practice in the comments Tell me about yourself and. Try to use as many different As you can. I can't wait to learn a little. Bit more about your professional background. Let's keep going. And you're going to learn 25 professional phrases Our first phrase. I'm on board with that. This is used. When you agree or you want to express your support for a suggestion or an idea, We are the verb to be. We're on board with that preposition with, we're Sales. And don't forget to conjugate that verb to I'm on board. Next, are we on the same page? This is used to confirm that everyone has the After our discussion, it seems We all have the same opinion, And to specify what that something is you can Don't worry about taking notes because I You can. Find the link in the description next. It's a win win situation. This is a situation where all parties benefit. All parties win. I could say subscribing to J Forest I win by growing my YouTube channel and you win by getting all of these free video So put win, win, win, win, put, It's a win, win. Our next phrase I could ask what are your? Thoughts on this? This is used to request You can identify something specific and say what Remember, you can replace the noun the new Next, we need to think outside. The box. Have you heard this one? To think outside the box? This is to encourage creative If you're trying to solve a difficult the box is the only way we'll solve this problem. You need innovative, creative solutions. Everybody start thinking outside the box. Next, I love this one. Let's circle back to that later. When you circle back to something, and you suggest that you discuss it later. So you postpone your discussion until later. You could say we only have 10 minutes left. So let's circle back to. This whatever this is your discussion about the Let's. Circle back to. This later. Let's postpone it now and discuss it later. Notice the grammar. This is in the imperative. It's often the case because we use Let's circle back to Dina. Our next phrase, We need to prioritize our tasks. If you prioritize something, it means you So the most important or the most urgent Because it's prioritized, it's the most important. This is a common situation. We don't have enough time to complete I love this one, please keep me in the loop. Do you know this one? Native speakers love using it. This is used to. Request that information or I could say. I'm taking tomorrow off but please Notice grammatically. This is the. Imperative because I'm giving you You can add please at the beginning or the Well good, keep me in the loop on that. Next, have they ironed out the details? This is used to ask if Or clarified. For example, we need to iron Before the meeting. And notice that pronunciation in the past. Simple iron. Doubt ironed out. Ironed out Phrase 10. I'm all ears. This is used to express your openness and. Willingness to listen. I could say. If you have any suggestions for improving I'm open and willing to And that is 100% true. So please share your suggestions in the comments. I'm all ears. Next, let's take a step. Back. This is when you pause to Our marketing campaign didn't work. Let's take a step back. Let's pause what we're doing, working on the marketing campaign to review Let's take a step back. Notice this is. Also in the imperative for This is a great one. I beg to differ. I beg to differ. Use this when you disagree with Your coworker could say the marketing Outside the box, you could say I beg to differ. Which means I don't agree. I beg to differ. The campaign was great, it I beg to differ. Next. I'll cut to the chase. This is when you. Say your main point directly, without small talk, without additional details, for You're not getting the promotion notice. Grammatically, the expression is in the future. Simple I will. Cut to the chase. I'll cut to the chase. Even though the information you're You're not getting the promotion. This is a great one. Run it by the team first. This is when you share ideas I think it's a great idea, but You should share it with Frank And why should you do that? Because our next phrase Frank. Calls the shots. This is to say that. Someone is in charge, they have You should run your idea by Shots. Notice it's the shots. It's always plural. I called it shots. Our next phrase? The balls in Frank's court this is used to say it's someone else's responsibility Frank. Maybe you're talking to your Co workers and English teacher and you don't want to make that To give responsibility. For that decision to someone else, Because it's the ball is, the balls the ball is. In your court. The balls in your court. Next, we need to nip this in the bud. This is an important one because the early stages before it Serious. Let's say you have a new policy. For a dress code. But none of the new employees So that's the problem. And you want to stop it in the early stages. You want to nip it in the bud. Grammatically, the verb is nip and to You need to nip this in the bud. This is a great one. It's not my cup of tea. Do you know this one? This is used to say that you dislike something. Public speaking is not my cup of tea, And remember there are two correct? Contractions. It isn't. It's not. You can use either one. They hammered out the agreement. This is used to say that. Something is finalized as a question. Have you hammered out the terms yet? This is commonly used with Phrase 20. We're swamped right now, Doctor Kettner. We're swamped. This is to say you're. Really busy. We've been swamped since Vanessa quit. The expression is too be swamped, so your verb is Next, we'll take that into consideration. This is to say you'll. Consider something you'll consider someones Now, because I'm all ears, you You said Jennifer I think you should I could say thanks for your suggestion, We need to think long term. This is used to emphasize the importance of considering future I could say publishing videos three but I need to think long term. Is that sustainable for me all become. Very swamped, very quickly. Next. Sorry, I'm tied up. This means you're busy and therefore unavailable. You could say. I wish I could help you, but I'm tied up. I'm already busy with something Now you can specify the something Tied up with. The budget phrase 20. Four, let's put our heads together. This is used to. Suggest the need for collaboration, Because the opinion is in your then you have more than one opinion. If we put our heads together, I Finally, freeze 25 to play devil's advocate this. Is when you consider opposing I could say I think 3 videos per day is too. Much for me to handle. So let's play devil's advocate. So now I'm going to think about think about what that would take, To. See if it's possible and Decision. Of course, it's very common to Now, instead of saying I think, let me First of all, there's nothing wrong with saying. I think I say it all the time, but Vocabulary that I. Use as well, and my choice So let me share all the different First, let's talk about everyday situations. Let's take the statement of I think you can say I'd say it's going to rain. I'd say this is a contraction of I would I. Would. Say, but native speakers use the You can add to that and say, if you They're. Exactly the same, it's just something This is the. Closest alternative to I think It seems to me that the way I All three are used to really My close friend always says I I personally don't say I reckon, It. I prepared a free lesson PDF that this lesson, so you can find that in the Now you can also say it's That's my take on it. This is a very common expression my. Take on it. Take is your assessment how you see the situation. That's my take on it. So you first share. Your. Opinion or statement and then You can do the same thing with the idiom. That's my two cents. Two cents that represents That's my two cents. Now let me share some more formal a job interview, a conference, a work Let's say your opinion is Revise means make changes too. We should revise the report. Of course you can say I. Think that we should revise the report? You could also say from my perspective. Perspective. This is a very. Common one, it sounds quite We should revise the report. Of course, you can simply say, in my opinion, And that does sound more formal than my view that we should revise the We should revise the report. Keep in mind the word that is optional. We generally use it in written English, and we generally exclude it in spoken So you could say it appears to me appears to me that we should revise the report. Both of these are. Correct. Let's talk about some expressions Certainty 100%. So let's take our statement. We should promote John. Lucky John. Now if you're 100% certain, you I'm positive, we should promote John. You could say it's obvious You could replace obvious with Nobody could dispute it. It's indisputable that we should promote John. That sounds very firm. I like that one. Indisputable. It's undeniable. It's unquestionable. It's beyond a doubt. We should promote John. John must be really awesome. Now let's say that you do want to So it could happen. But maybe it won't happen. You could say it's possible that Instead of possible, you could say it's probable I figure or I gather that she's One I really like is I have a hunch. I have a hunch that she's When you have a hunch, it's more based on I have a hunch that she's I just have this. Really good feeling. You could say. Correct me if I'm wrong, but But if you say. Correct me if I'm wrong, you're You could also say, if I'm not mistaken, Again, there's some doubt. There, because you could To the best of my knowledge, to the best of my Let's talk about some expressions So diplomatic because you might people don't agree with or that is the So maybe all your Co workers think that So our statement is John isn't a good fit. He isn't a good fit to be honest, in all honesty. John isn't a good. Fit. Now remember, this is something that so you might want to say it In all honesty, John isn't a good fit. I'm sorry to say it, but. John isn't a good fit. If you want to be more. Neutral you could say. One could argue that John isn't a good fit. Everyone else is saying he is. So you want to be more neutral and talk? About how he. Isn't one could argue that my impression I saved my favorite for last I get what you're. Saying, but John isn't a good fit. Now in this case get means understand so if. You want to be more casual, informal use. Get I get what you're. Saying but John isn't a good fit. If you want to be more formal, you can But John isn't a good fit. Let's move on and learn 30 ways First, let's talk about some casual expressions Let's take the example of bumping into someone So instead of saying I'm sorry, I know it's a subtle difference, but it will really help you sound You can also add so or very in front of it. So sorry, very sorry. Or you could say sorry about bumping into the person at the grocery store. Sorry about that. So sorry about that. I'm so sorry about that. To help you remember all of these You can look in the description link to download the free lesson PDF. Another common thing is simply to make Oh no. Oh my. And then you don't even have to say anything Oops. Oh, oopsie, oopsie. Oopsie, Yikes. Whoops. Oops. A slightly more formal one, but excuse me or pardon me, excuse me, pardon me. Those are quite common as well. Let's say that your friend asked you but you bought her an oatmeal cookie. So instead of saying I'm sorry, This is extremely common in North America and it will really make you sound My bad, my bad. Keep in mind it is quite casual Things you want to apologize for? Like getting the wrong cookie. My bad. You could also say my fault, My mistake, I got you the wrong cookie. My bad. Let's say you want to admit your mistake. For example, you told your friend the party You could say I was wrong. So instead of saying I'm sorry I gave you Of course, you can use any My bad. But one, to specifically admit your Often we say sorry if we can't do So let's say your friend invited It would be very common to say I'm Instead of saying I'm sorry, so replace I'm sorry with unfortunately, Unfortunately, I can't attend your party. Unfortunately, I can't drive you to the airport. Now let's talk about some more you can use in the workplace Let's say you arrive to an Instead of saying I'm sorry, Now you can expand that and say To make it stronger, you can add sincere, To sound even more formal, you could Please accept my sincere apologies for being late. That sounds very formal. Let's say you made a mistake at But you should have ordered ten boxes. Now in the casual example, we learned I In a professional context, I recommend. I take. Full responsibility. This sounds very professional because the I take. Full responsibility for ordering My sincere apologies. And I take full responsibility. You could also say. I understand I made a mistake, I'll fix it. Now instead of understand, you I admit I made a mistake, I'll fix it. So notice you're not just. Admitting it, you're also offering a solution. I'll. Fix. It I'll call the supplier right So offering a solution is a great Let's say that. You kept a client waiting on Now instead of saying I'm sorry for Your. Patience. So instead of talking about the negative, you talk about the positive, which is I appreciate your patience. Thank you for your patience. Thank you for understanding, I appreciate your time. I appreciate your patience. Now, let's say that your boss, your coworker, or your client offers you So they tell you about something Maybe your last presentation wasn't very good Some. Feedback. Instead of saying I'm sorry my presentation wasn't to my attention or thank you for letting I'll work on that, I'll improve that. Or you can even ask them how can I improve? Can you give me some suggestions to improve? Thank you for bringing this to my attention. There's one common idiom that you So remember in the casual In the professional example you The idiom that you can use in any situation is This. Simply means I was wrong or I take. Full responsibility. The buck stops with me. Native speakers love using idioms, so you understand native speakers and sound like 1-2. So now you're going to learn 50 common A blessing in disguise. This is when something a situation but it results in something So. Let's say. You get fired from your job, obviously. That seems bad, maybe even unlucky. But later on you get a job 10 times better. It pays better, you have a better boss, Everything about this job is better. You can say getting fired My new job is so much better, a dime a dozen. This is used to describe something So you can say tech startups in They're very. Common. They're. Everywhere. And they're not very special. Everyone's a tech startup in Silicon Valley. A dime a dozen to beat around the Bush. This. Is when you avoid saying what you mean So let's say. Hey, you want to end your romantic Your friend could tell you Be direct and. Tell that person you want to break up better. Late than never. So let's say you've been Years. And you finally got your first and you're telling your friend Annoyed because you've been there for 10 years, To remind you that yes, it took ten years, Better late than never to bite the bullet. I love this idiom. This is when you force yourself to do something difficult or unpleasant because Inevitable means eventually. You have to do it, so why not For example, just bite the bullet Break a leg. This is a very common idiom that we. Use to say. Good luck, Good luck. Break a leg. But we especially use this before most commonly a theatrical performance. But when you're going for a job Or when you're doing your speaking exam So before your speaking exam, your friend, your partner could say break a Call it a day. When you call it a day, it means you stop working Because you've done enough work for For example, it's getting Let's call it a day. So that means. You can go home to. Cut somebody some slack. So let's say there's this Co worker every day and not doing a very good job at work. They seem very distracted. They're not working very hard, But that person's dad just died, so His dad just died, so you're not going to To be glad to see the back of this. Means that you're. Happy that somebody has left So let's say it's Jane's last day at work. She quit. She has a new job. You didn't like Jane, you can say. I'm glad to see the back of Jane to This is a compliment used to say that is extremely useful, excellent or high quality. So you could give me a compliment and say this Bread. If you think that's true, then. Put it in the comments there. Are plenty of fish in the sea. So let's say your friend went on a date back and it's been 3 weeks. You. Can encourage your friend by saying don't worry, there are plenty of fish in This is used. To say that an event will. Take place despite external circumstances. So let's say tomorrow is a vacation day for you. But there's a big project deadline tomorrow. But you might say I'm taking the day off This is when you do something in the but by omitting something or by not following. Rules. So you might say we. Felt pressured to cut corners because together so your parents might say to You're 30 and you? Still. Live at. Home and you don't have a job. You need to. Get your act together. You need to organize yourself so you can live. And in an effective and efficient way. Get your act together to break the. Ice. This is such. An important one. Because this is used to help people. Who don't know? Each other to. Feel more comfortable around each other, especially when they're Let's break the ice by introducing ourselves and Clear. As mud, this is used to say that So if somebody gave you instructions but at all and they ask you, so is everything OK? Do you understand? You can say. Clear as mud. Which tells the person. You do not understand at all. Crystal clear. Something is very clear and easy to understand. His instructions were crystal clear. To rock the boat. This is when you. Do or say something that could Don't. Rock the boat. Until the negotiations are done. So don't say anything that could cause problems until we sign the deal and. Then you can. Cause problems if you want to. To get out of. Hand This is another way of which means you no longer You could say the party. Got. Out of hand, which means you were The party got out of hand and some valuables. Were. Broken a bad apple? This is used to. Describe a bad or corrupt person within a group. You could say there are a few To cut to the chase. This is when you only talk about the most So if you are. Running out of time in the We're. Running out of time, so I'll. Cut to the chase, I'll only say the This is used when something is So if it's pouring. Rain. Outside. You might say an umbrella would come in handy. An umbrella would be very useful To reinvent the. Wheel. This is when. You waste time trying to recreate something So let's say you ask your boss, should I and your boss suggests using It's already created and your boss can add. Don't reinvent the wheel. So we often use this idiom in the negative. To go with the flow. When you go with the flow, it means that you do what other people are doing or you The majority? So let's say you're. Having a company dinner. And you originally wanted to have. Burgers, but the majority. Of people say they want pizza, so you can. Go with the flow and have pizza instead of burgers because that's what the majority This is when you do something that He's skating on thin ice by lying. To his wife. It. Involves risk. It's. Dangerous. Don't do it. A silver lining This is something positive Pandemic. Is negative right? But is there anything positive, A silver lining? Maybe we could say 1 silver lining of how important our relationships To have a sweet tooth. This is somebody who likes Chocolate. So if people offer me dessert, generally So I could say no thank you. I don't have a sweet tooth, which means. I don't really like sweet foods to. Go Dutch. This is when you agree. To. Share the cost of something. Especially a meal. So let's say you're having dinner with a friend, family member, even a romantic partner, You could say no. No, no, let's go. Dutch, which means you're 5050 to make ends meet this is when you have. Just enough money. To. Pay for essential items You might we're barely making ends meet to ring a bell. This is when something, usually a person, So let's say you're having a conversation have you met Fred from accounting And you're That doesn't ring a bell. The. Tip of the iceberg? This is used to describe a small. Part of a much bigger problem. These small local protests are just the. Tip. Of the iceberg to blow off steam. This is when you. Say or do something that helps you release After our fight, I went for So when you were on that walk, you were able A piece of cake. This is something that was extremely easy. That exam was a piece of This is when you no. Longer have a problem or difficulty We're not out of the woods. Yet to get over something? This is when you recover. From an illness. It took me two weeks to get over This is used to. Describe a type or category that you don't like. Thanks for the invite, but camping? Isn't my cup of tea. I don't like that category of activity. To. Be loaded. This means to be rich, to have a lot of money. I just found out my cousins loaded This is to stop something. Before. It has an opportunity to become established. We need to nip these rumors in the bud before When something happens out of the blue, it My boss gave me a promotion out of the blue. You. Weren't. Expecting it. How awesome is that? To. Keep one's chin up. This. Is to remain cheerful in a difficult we tend to put our chin down, but when For example, I know the economy seems bad, but This is when you try to finish a task. Quickly before a. Specific time. I raced against the clock to finish the audit and This is when you. Surprise somebody by doing something they Politician was caught off guard. When asked about the scandal. To be on ones radar. If something is on your radar, it means you're considering it or You could say. Leaving the company isn't on my radar. It's not even something I'm considering This is to betray. Someone to do something harmful to someone All the work. On the project, I can't believe she beeline for something. This is when you move quickly So let's say you're at a wedding or a conference. And they're about to serve. Lunch. The buffet lunch. Everyone made a bee line. For the food, they went. Quickly and directly to the food. To be in. Hot. Water. This is when you're in a situation where The. Politicians in hot water after To be dressed. To the nines. This. Is when you're dressed formally, We dress to the nines for our wedding anniversary, so you usually dress to the To be between a rock. And a hard place, this is when or you have to make a difficult decision. If I accept the promotion then I'll my partner, won't come with me, so I Really. Want, but then I have to lose And I don't get the promotion. Hmm. I'm between a rock and a hard place. It's a difficult. Situation. It's a difficult decision, lo and behold. This. Is an expression used to say that I was on vacation in Japan and lo and behold. I saw my childhood sweetheart, so childhood sweetheart across Lo and behold and. Finally #50. To let the cat out of the bag, this is So let's say you're planning or husband or friend and they know about it. You might say you know about the party, don't you? Who let the cat? Out of the bag. Who told you? Who revealed the secret? Who let? The cat out of the bag. Now you're going to learn 24 colloquial words that you can use every To understand native speakers, you also known as colloquialisms, And today you're going to learn 24. Colloquial. Words. That you need to know. Welcome back to J Force. English, of course. I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. Colloquial English, also known as colloquialisms, is simply informal language This includes phrases, idioms, and with your friends, your family, and even Just know that these may or may not be It depends on the specific situation. How does this compare to slang? Well, slang is very informal speech. That is often not standard English, and slang is What you'll learn today is And I summarize everything in a free lesson PDF. So don't worry about taking notes #1 let's hit. The books. Do you know this one? You should because to hit the Say I have a big test tomorrow, so I need to hit the books by watching more of my If you agree, put let's do it, let's do The box. Well, time to hit the books and #2 is. Let's do. It to do something. This is a. Casual friendly way of saying to complete. Something. But native speakers use this I could ask you, Are you ready to leave? And then you say, yes, I'm ready. So I say, let's do it. Which means let's leave. Let's complete that action. Let's do it. So let's practice this. Do you want me? To teach you the next expression, Let's do it. Put Let's do it. In the comments. Let's do it, let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. #3 Yup. Or yuppers, have you ever heard? Yuppers. Oh, this is a. Great, one, again I can ask And you can say yes, I'm ready to leave or. Instead of yes to sound more You can put it in a full sentence. Yup, I'm ready, Yuppers, I'm ready. Or you can just use that one word Yup, yuppers. And notice that S yuppers with an S. So again, question for you. Do you want me to? Keep teaching you natural expressions. Put yuppers with that S put yuppers. In the comments if you do. Yuppers. Yeppers. #4 I'll see you at 8:00-ish. What time is 8:00-ish? Do you know adding ish to the So this could be. 7:45 or 8:15 to sound more professional. You can say I'll see you at approximately 8. That's the more formal way to say Native speakers use this a lot. Will be there soon. Well, soon ish. This means in the near. Future, but not immediately. It's a little. Longer than soon. Just know that ish. Is not actually. A word, but all. Native. Speakers. Understand it. #5 my bad, you know this one right? This is used when you. Take responsibility or accept fault. Maybe you're in a meeting and your colleague Shouldn't it be from 2024? My. Bad. I'll change that ASAP. No worries. My bad, my bad. Not bad. Our next? One is of course, no worries. You probably know this one. This means it's okay or don't worry about it. Native speakers often use this instead of. You're welcome, Jennifer. Thanks so much for the new. Lesson. You might say that and I can reply to But we also use this to apologize. Maybe you're shopping and you accidentally. Hit some. With your shopping cart and And the person replies back Worries. No worries. No worries, no worries. Everything's all. No worries, no worries. #7 no big deal or no biggie. This also means it's okay don't. Worry about it, no worries. Or it's not significant, it's not important. So again, if you're shopping and your shopping cart and you say, oh, I'm so sorry. The. Person can reply back. And say no big deal. This is often used after an. Of gratitude to say it wasn't Maybe you say, wow Jennifer, it's so nice you can download it in the description and I I'm letting you know that this wasn't so I'm happy to do it, no. Big deal, no biggie. No big deal. Number eight, 100%. This one is very trendy right now. She doesn't do her fair share of the work, 100%. This means I completely agree with you. I 100% agree with you. For pronunciation, native speakers You can also say 100% yeah, agreed 100%. Absolutely agree 100%. #9 I'm. Really into yoga. What about you? What are you into? To be into something. This is when you enjoy doing something This question is commonly used when So if you're on a first date, you can And he replies back and It's my passion. Just notice a verb, a preference. Love is commonly used to reply to this question. So what about you? What are you into? You could say I'm really into Oh, thanks so much. Notice that structure verb to be I am into, and If that describes you again, put let's do it. Let's keep learning. Let's do it. Put let's do it in the comments. Right now I'm into yoga. I'm really into fashion. #10 let's Uber it. What does this? Mean This means let's take an Uber. Native speakers frequently A native speaker would commonly say I'll Zoom you using them as verbs. Remember you have to conjugate the verb Last night we ubered to the conference. Last night we took an Uber to the conference. I'll e-mail you the address. #11 that's wild. This is used. To show surprise, amazement, or astonishment. A lot of Ubers won't accept my ride This is true. You can reply back and say that's. Wild, which means. I'm surprised. That's wild. That's wild. #12 really with a question. Really. This is also used to show surprise amazement. Or astonishment I don't get Uber Eats. It won't come to my area. Also true. You can reply and say really and you can. Even Ah, that's wild. Put them both together, really. Really. Really. #13 shoot this. Means ask your question, Jennifer. I have a. Question about #11 shoot, ask me your question. Jennifer, can I ask you a question about #5 Give. Me a shout first. Notice in the last one, shoot pronunciation oot. This one. Out. Shout, shoot, shout. This means call me. Or. Contact me, give me a shout when you land. Give me a shout at 8:00-ish. Give him a shout. Give him a shout. Pops out. Give me a shout #15 Can you flip me the invite? To flip means to send electronically. You flip someone something just Can you flip the team someone? The invite something? You can also flip something to someone. Same with send something to someone. Can you flip the invite something to the team? Someone #16 Now let's look at the invite. Can you flip me the invite? Invite is a shortened form of She invited the team to the party. An invitation is a noun. Have you sent out the invitations for the party? An invite is a noun. Have you sent out the invites for the party? Notice because it's a noun, it has a singular. Or. Plural form I have to send you an invite. I can send you an invite if you want. #17 I'll flip it to you. In a SEC In a SEC means in a second which. Is a short. Period of time, soon you can You can also get someones attention Do you have a small amount of time, maybe a few minutes in this case and There it is. SEC. Wait, you in a SEC? Oh, wait. A. 2nd #18 She's a newbie. A newbie is a new member of a team or a group. You might say, can you show She's a newbie. Or your boss might say, keep an What about you? Are you a new member of this community? Have you recently subscribed If you have then put. I'm a newbie. I'm a newbie. Put I'm a newbie in the comments. I love newbies. I'm happy to have you. She's a total newbie. I'm a newbie. Sure, newbie. #19 My study routine is dialed in. To be dialed in means to be And here dialed in functions as an adjective. So is your study routine If it is, you can say it's my If not, you can say I need. Two. Dial it in. In this case, it's the verb. I need to dial it in. I need to perfect it, optimize it. How dialed in were you? #20 I'm crushing it. To crush something means to do a great job. So if you're enjoying this. Video you can say, Jennifer, you're Job. Do you agree? If you do, put. Crushing it, crushing it, crushing it. In the Commons, this is a verb. So in the past, simple you would say, I crushed. The job interview, I did a great job. I'm. Crashing it. I'm really crushing it. Exactly. See, I'm crushing it. #21 I'm loving it. You probably recognize this because of McDonald's. McDonald's slogan is I'm loving it This. Technically breaks an English grammar So you would say. I love this. Song, even if the action takes place right now. But McDonald's popularized this, so now it's I'm loving this song and by putting it emphasizes that the action is taking place now. I love it, I'm loving it, I'm loving it. I'm loving it. #22 Learning English is a piece of cake. You know this one right? To be a piece of cake means to be very easy. Maybe learning English is a piece of If you agree, you can say 100% so Of cake. Piece of cake. It's a piece of cake. It's a piece of cake. #23 we shot the breeze in the This is to make small talk so to have Notice those conjugations And the past participle. Shot you might say my neighbor and I out the garbage we see each other and Shoot. The Breeze. And. Finally #24. You're. On fire. To be on fire, this means to Job, I could say you just added 24 common You're on fire. So let's celebrate this put. I'm on fire. I'm on fire. You just did an amazing job put Amazing job now you have. 300. Words that you can use in your daily speech. Do you want? Me to make another lesson just like this. If you do put master class, In the comments below. And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And you can keep expanding Words in this this lesson, right? Now.