- [Neri] Seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, zero, ignition, liftoff! Over the past 200 years, the dominant force in shaping This year, 2020, marks a crossover year when the anthropomass, the mass embodied in the built environment, which bricks, and glass will exceed which includes trees, plants, animals, bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Current building technologies its main culprits, propelling where we're called upon to (ethereal music) As we project 200 years principles, knowledge, skills as we architect the future of and the built environment? (ethereal music) A skyscraper is not a tree, not yet. Since our divorce from nature with the industrial for architecture remains as we replace units of growth For centuries, we've been and build in three static But the natural world much more dimensionally They include environmental and humidity, and epidemiologic with viral load, When we're able to communicate when we're able to transcend the view that nature is a boundless entity, even transcending the of the architectural project when we invite scientific inquiry and technological innovation, and bits with genes, of building enable new between humans and their environment. Only then will we be able to design, construct, and evolve as equals. (ethereal music) In the past few years, for the first time in architectural history, we're and complexity of the natural world by creating new technologies enable us to design a beam or an HVAC and waste removal system as if it were a photosynthetic GI tract, engineered to convert carbon into biofuel. This is the precision medicine moment of architectural design, (insects trilling) Imagine that nature is the in your architectural practice. What are the values and of such a project? (insects trilling) First, technology over typology. Technology has the or entirely reinvent the Additive manufacturing of the creation of offering a glimpse into of solar-powered and (ethereal music) Decay over disposal. We emphasize decay over disposal by orienting biomaterials to and rejoin an ecosystem for Multi-species over mono-species. With continued deforestation humans cut down nearly 15 it will degrade into a dry savanna. Can we design, not cut trees? Can we apply the same ethical cotton-producing organisms, and Heterogeneity over homogeneity. We need to design or rewild biodiversity on the planet. When ecosystems are more diverse, they're better able to perform essential ecosystem services (ethereal music) System over object. Finally, in a post-pandemic of climate change, we must as an object, but as a to its natural environment, So here are five demonstrations including the technologies and construct them. Consider them not as five but perhaps as five They include glass, polymers, fibers, pigments, and cellular solids. Optically transparent, structurally sound, and chemically inert, glass is and has been for over 4,000 years. Still, the production and use of hundreds of billions of glass facade in the US alone begs the question, what if we can utilize for harvesting solar energy in The 3D printing of optically towards such a possible future. (ethereal music) (glass breaking) Unlike blowing or forming and continuous surfaces, the high levels of control over Here's one example. When the nozzle releasing a above a certain level, to wobble, or auto coil. It traces out waves or loops, by adjusting the speed of the nozzle. If the dribbling of the glass of the nozzle, the thread wavy line, instead of a straight one. Based on how fast the glass we can predict the glass As a result, we can predict This simple ratio, height a wide variety of shapes. Those shapes then become for intricate, that can function as giant optical lenses. We are currently at work on within those lenses as we of harvesting solar energy through them. Another unique feature associated with the lensing effect is the shadow detection and behavior. In other words, we can on the shadow footprints The printing platform is based The upper chamber act as a kiln cartridge, while the lower chamber serves to anneal the structure. The kiln cartridge operates at approximately 1900 Fahrenheit, and can contain sufficient a single architectural component. We've additionally designed a rotary table which embodies an infinite about the Z-axis, providing Like a molten calligraphy over internal geometrical features. (ethereal music) Utilizing this technology, full scale columns of integrated lighting, generating a large caustic footprint. The caustics is the sum and refracted through the curved service of the printed column over the surrounding floor and wall areas. Given their geometrical complexity and dynamic optical as architectural-scale or disperse light from within and/or outside the glass surface. Now, reimagine Centre Pompidou or formal petitions of systems. Instead, consider a single and continuous transparent that can integrate multiple functions, and can be shaped to tune its structural, and its environmental performance, not unlike the human skin, which serves at once as (ethereal music) This five meter tall structure straight off the robot. The rest is about 20% trees, To speak in nature's biobased structural (ethereal music) Biopolymers are natural polymers produced by the cells of living organisms. We're already utilizing even in fashion, but to deploy them on we need to invest in design that emulate their hierarchical properties by engineering real From a limited pallet including celluloses, chitin, and pectin, the very same materials found in trees, crustaceans, and apple an extensive array of functional materials that outperform human engineered ones through their resilience, If we can scale structural in trees and crustaceans, we will be able to architect buildings, including full scale towers, able to adapt and respond With over 300 million tons each year, less than 10% of it recycled, there is a real need for alternatives. The Aguahoja collection, with the toxic waste cycle through the creation of biopolymer composites with tunable, mechanical, and optical properties. These renewable biocompatible of natural resource cycles, as they return to the earth for purposes of fueling new growth. A tree becomes a tower, The robotic platform we includes a robotic arm, a mixing chamber, and a differentiated fan array. Both shape and material composition by desired physical and opacity, environmental conditions, such as low temperature and robotic fabrication constraints, such as degree of freedom, arm Each structure of the collection contains a unique combination of organic materials, whose location, texture, and and additively manufactured In contrast to most synthetic in this collection will over their lifespan, adapting their shape, their mechanical behavior, in response to fluctuations in Standing five meters tall, composed of most abundant Its layered structure, known as a hierarchical network for structural stability, flexibility, and visual connectivity. Combining shell-like the pavilion's overall stiffness to withstand changing such as heat and humidity, Over time, with the evaporation and shell composite and relatively weak system to to heat and to humidity. Upon exposure to rainwater, made of about 5,000 fallen and 3000 shrimp shells, will restoring their to the existing ecosystem. Through life and programmed decomposition, shelter becomes organism, as it holds the potential of natural resource cycles by such means as promoting soil microorganisms for growing buildings. (ethereal music) (organisms scraping) We often neglect to appreciate and animal-derived materials processed and consumed by our industry. Timber, resin, rubber, linen, dyes, silk, and a wide array of fibers of their use and mishandling. (ethereal music) With over 1000 silk cocoons of a single T-shirt, we ask, can we extract silk without What are the technological, architectural, and ethical implications for sericulture, architectural construction How might we invent technologies co-manufacturing, and even cohabitation? What are the ways by which to consider materials not as of valuable and increasingly (ethereal music) In our most project, Silk with our good friends, the to some of these questions, of a six meter tall fiber structure made almost entirely of silk. Two discoveries were key to this project. The first was that in the a branch, silkworms will The second was that the and thereby the organization per a given surface, is directly linked to environmental conditions such as gravity, heat, and light. (ethereal music) In order to spin in a positioning mandrel in the form of a cylindrical kinetic jig placed between two wheel-like elements. Over 10 days and 15,000 we were able to achieve a more of fibers across the entire Rather than boiling the in the silk industry, our healthy metamorphosis during spinning, and not a single silkworm was exterminated in the Pavilion's construction. The Pavilion's primary structure and the soluble knit utilizing a cable system, with the intermediate knit yarn providing support for the silkworms. The holes, which ended up releasing some of the tensile stress in from chemical reactions between and the underlying yarn. These structural forces are expressing a metabolic footprint of the silkworms' internal 10 days of co-creation and a giant robotic loom of silk threads with over 17,000 sourced from Tirolo, Italy, one of the most extensive in Europe. In this region of Veneto, the tradition of sericulture and silk during 12th century Renaissance. Combined, the length of silk of twice the great wall from New York to Minnesota, It is a fine example of how these small, yet unique insects can act as architects, and a reminder that the planet and the animal kingdom can no longer offer infinite material yield, but begging to be mothered and With biodiversity on planet an extinction rate estimated in between 100 and 1,000 architects are now on and substances that can and rewild living systems. One such substance, known diversity of wildlife and ecosystem levels, is melanin. It is a naturally occurring all living things across (ethereal music) A biomarker of evolution, The substance that defines and eyes is both ancient and modern. It is found in dinosaur fossils, and today can be chemically It is one of the most and pervasive pigments It is the bricks and mortar Without it, we're toast. In addition to its critical from UV radiation, it serves including mechanical cell growth, and thermal Melanin represents unity in the diversity of life on Earth, and is clearly linked to biological survival It is key to human survival on Earth. This project addresses and speculates upon architect's ability this pigment of life as enabling a generation of designed to interact, adapt, and respond to the natural environment. Melanin can be synthesized between an enzyme found in and a protein building The pigment can be bird feathers, cuttlefish your own hair even, then in a series of steps. The genes for melanin production into bacterial species, such as E.coli, enabling high levels of and response to change in the environment. For instance, its coloration could deepen as the sun reaches its from solar radiation. Over the past year, we've of structures that can across scales from micro to macro, and also across phases As part of the basic Totems, we've created a a single connected channel These structures display and absorption spectra, from The channels have been and biologically augmented for the liquid melanin to ranging from millimeters to centimeters. An installation designed for the exhibition Broken Nature on an architectural scale for deployment in a specific Each column is initiated of tyrosinase, an enzyme leading to color formation of a day, deepening as the and easing into lighter These melanin-infused columns function as biological windows from, connection to, and We've translated this research through an architectural endorsed by the Mandela Foundation. This environmentally-responsive, melanin-infused glass structure multiple types of melanin It provides UV protection during the day, and star gazing at night. How is it possible, we asked, that brought us together across all kingdoms of (poignant music) Through this investigation, we question our ongoing relationship with biology, ecology, and natural history. Now, back to space. We've so far examined four case studies with the bespoke technologies glass, biopolymers, fibers, and pigments. As you've noticed, the units of life, despite their complexity compared with the scale steel columns, and glass facades. So how can we build with life? How can we scale complexity, tunability, and intelligence to match urban scales? How might they apply to such as concrete and geothermal foams? (ethereal music) The digital construction platform is an experimental technology for large scale digital manufacturing. In contrast to typical, gantry-based construction technologies, robotic arm systems offer the promise of greater task flexibility, design and build with local materials, solar harvesting, and so much more. Our platform consists of a with a six axis robotic arm Combined, the platform You're looking at long exposure images highlighting the two arms in action. These two systems, implementing a micro-macro manipulating akin to the biological and hand, where the large arm while the small arm can provide oscillation compensation, and improve force control bandwidth. It can even act as a Geiger counter, detecting and measuring (ethereal music) The arm system has as a radial and the systems track base To demonstrate the platform's we designed and printed a dome, one of the most structurally stable forms. As our demo material, we used foam, which can expand 40 times volumetrically, small amounts of this material that are much larger than So here's the system, an controlled entirely on its own, armed with nearly 8,000 as it places the first layer of the print on the foundations. The 50 foot diameter dome with in just under 13.5 hours at which time it was, we believe, the world's largest manufactured by a mobile printer. Looking forward, to create this form could be filled with concrete and reinforcing metal elements, utilizing the very same system with a custom end effect to replace rebar. At the end of the mission, to the hanger, using a remote Potential applications for of non-standard architectural of data gathered onsite in real time into fabrication processes, improvement in construction efficiency, and exploration of autonomous for use in disaster relief, and extraterrestrial terrain. Last year, the platform was acquired by NASA's Marshall Space of remote construction on (insects trilling) By her 80s, my daughter on a planet that is four degrees warmer, with 11 billion people living on it, with vast portions of it for millions of climate refugees Scientists predict that the well underway, causing As master builders and architects, the gardeners of or break our bond with nature. (ethereal music) The architectural practice of the future will not differentiate between atoms, bits and genetic matter, nor will it discriminate Within it, we will fuse and wetware to create that can respond, adapt, and evolve. This future is as complex, as it is fascinating, as it is promising. Either way, it is the only way home. So take one more look that's still here, that's our little Earth, the small stage in that vast, cosmic arena. (ethereal music) Now think about your your cousins, and nieces, and nephews, and consider a post-apocalyptic city placed within landscapes that have begun to destroy and in the intervening years, Why hurry to Mars, while of synergy between humans and nature? Rather than being forced to let us design our way back in to it. Make nature your client, and (Raika laughing) (compelling music)