And they said, If you're And John and I happened to be in his house And we said, Come on, should we go? And for half a second, The group broke up. It wasn't particularly It was just between all of the group. We started off as lads We had a great success And in the end, though, argue about music or something like that. It would never be a really big argument. It was pretty much everything But the crunch came when was business, the Apple business. And you get one viewpoint from so-and-so Everyone was represented And I think that just when the game of a music game, It was one Are there any circumstances under which all the other three, were really wild, great thing to go and do, then there's a Since you and Ringo are going so much of an extra effort to bring in You know what I'm talking about. See, the thing is for a long time And just the way things are, certain ones But for instance, I don't in getting the group back together again. And the four of us individually in doing it just because you can't No, I don't think like this. I definitely know it's not on. And it gets a bit boring But I understand you're asking that, but Does the media campaign to get Yeah, a bit, but there's nothing so I don't get really annoyed. It's just one of those things Like with the Beatles, once we split up, offering a lot of money and saying, But the The trouble is that if something like that, you'd have to have a because you can't just start things just Not a thing like that, anyway. So the missing factor is the enthusiasm We did our bit. I think the four of us would probably just and leave the whole story intact and doing some disastrous reunion show. Paul, you're probably very tired of have this long, anticipated and eagerly hopes for with the Beatles. Do you think that there would ever song, maybe just one song from you guys? Well, I wouldn't say there would be, to John, I just happened to ask him and stuff just out of my own curiosity. And he told me he's finished doing Did you move away from Well, it wasn't just me. All of us did that. It was a reaction we all had. George made an album which is a big successful thing. When he toured, he didn't John, when he did any concerts, it was We all left all the Beatles stuff alone of the pain of the divorce thing. And also, obviously, was, is there life after the Beatles? Or do we have to be Beatles all our lives? One young viewer wanted to know if Well, your guess is as Do you ever see any No, they are actually alive their own thing, enjoying themselves. I was very shocked. It was terrible news. How did you find out about it? I got a I had an uncle this morning. From who? Are you planning to go before the funeral? I don't know yet. Do you know... The death of any of the other people? Do Do you plan to? Probably, yeah. I was just listening to some stuff. I just didn't want to sit at home. I didn't feel like it. What time did you hear the news? It's this morning sometime. Yeah. A drag, isn't it? Okay, cheers. Nor can there ever be any more talk Did John's death in any way views his celebrity status? Well, something like that, To me, it's end of an era. Really wrapped up the Beatle thing, Although the four of us were going to get back together. The press would always ask us But we pretty much knew we wouldn't I think we really felt we'd done it. As far as work and sin, there can't died, and that was the Beatles. I don't think any of us would be for John, even Julian, The Beatles has to have John. You can't do the Beatles without John. It's a stupid idea. You can't put Julian in that position. Some people said Julian, then it's Julian. Or Elvis Costello. No way. No. But John was John, and that's the Beatles. It wouldn't be the Beatles. It would be a group It just wouldn't be the Beatles. Did the two of you ever talk about I mean, what's the myth The nearest it ever came was, did as a spoof, they made an offer. And Lorne Michiels, who was producing it, the accounts Department of NBC, and So they said, What would you pay? And the guy said, Well, the standard fee And it was like $24, $0. So they used it as a skit. And they said, If you're Nbc is offering $24. And John and I happened to be in his house And we said, Come on, should we go? It's just down the road. And for half a second, we nearly went. But that was as near as it got? Money wasn't good enough. But there is a film that we might get been meaning to do, and there might we play together, me, George, and Ringo. Now, we wouldn't call it a Beatles So the Beatles Reunion, what happened was the history of the Beatles, maybe 10 And me, George, and Ringo are helping them you were talking about, and we And the idea came up along the way need a little bit of music, if there's a little bit of incidental music. So I thought it might be good a little piece of music, maybe So we've Now, when I say that, people say, Ah, this It's not the Beatles.