This video is brought to you by Keysight. Hello. I got a fake power semiconductor. I'm going to check the difference in performance between the genuine product and the fake product. In this video, I'm going to use Keysight's semiconductor test equipment to compare the performance of the fake power semiconductor and the genuine semiconductor. In the first half of the video, I will check the performance. In the second half of the video, I'm going to use both the genuine and fake semiconductors in a power electronics device to see the difference in the performance of the device. The left one is the genuine power semiconductor. The right one is the power semiconductor obtained through an unofficial channel. This non-genuine semiconductor has been tested in advance using Keysight's power semiconductor test equipment and proven to be fake. I built something to test these power semiconductors. It's this step-down converter. It steps down an input voltage of 80 V to 40 V. I'll explain the details of the circuit configuration later. The rated output is about 300 W. Depending on the inductor, the maximum output power is about 1 kW. Power semiconductors play a key role in power conversion in step-down converters. I'm going to compare the power conversion efficiency when the genuine and fake power semiconductors are used. I'm going to compare the power conversion efficiency when the genuine and fake power semiconductors are used. Let's have a look at these power semiconductors, IRFP260. IRFP260 is released by former International Rectifier, now Infineon. The one on the right is got through the official channel. USD 4.33 per each. If you buy in bulk, around USD 2.00 On the other hand, the left one is purchased through an unofficial channel, USD 0.53 per each. The one obtained through an unofficial channel is 70% cheaper compared to the genuine one. Really suspicious. Really suspicious. Let me also comment on the appearance. The markings are a little bit different between these two. As for this one, you can tell the difference from the appearance. The marking of IR is a bit odd on the fake one. If you look closely, you can tell the difference. I purchased several pairs of fake and genuine semiconductors this time. This is another pair of semiconductors. The fake one has solder on the legs already. It's likely that this one was taken from discarded devices. It's possible that a genuine semiconductor that was once used was removed from the board and sold as a used item. In any case, it is very difficult to tell whether it's genuine or not only by the appearance. As we've seen so far, telling the difference between genuine and fake power semiconductors is very difficult. The purpose of this video is to compare the efficiency between real and fake power semiconductors. You may know, it is very risky to use unknown power devices on a board. So, to verify the performance of this power device, I decide to go to Keysight Hachioji site in Tokyo. I am coming to Keysight Hachioji site ! Let's test the devices. Some of you wonder why I'm visiting Keysight for power device performance testing. Keysight is the well-knownn T&amp;M vendor in high speed and high frequency market. Not only for that, but also Keysight provide the instruments for power electronics testing. I also found out just recently. Keysight manufacture the key instruments to evaluate the characteristics of power devices like a curve tracer and double pulse testers. In particular, this curve tracer over here is the one that's commonly used in the industry. Let's give you a short story about Keysight. Keysight has changed the company name several times. It started as Hewlett-Packard, HP. HP split the company into two sections, T&amp;M and computing. Then T&amp;M company is named Agilent. HP split the company into two sections, T&amp;M and computing. Then T&amp;M company is named Agilent. After that, Agilent split the company into two again, electronical T&amp;M and chemical analysis. Then electronical T&amp;M company is named Keysight. That's how Keysight was born. Now let's start testing the transistor characteristics. These two machines are the double pulse testers. This one on the left is quite large. It's used to test power modules. Today I will be using this relatively small machine to test discrete components. Also this one. This test equipment is called curve tracer. Now let's use this curve tracer to see the static characteristics of this power semiconductor. This is the datasheet of the power semiconductor. A curve tracer obtains the kind of data that's on this datasheet. It checks the static characteristics of a semiconductor. With a curve tracer, you can obtain more detailed values than those on the data sheet. Today I'm going to check the characteristics of MOSFETs, but with this curve tracer, you can test many other components such as discrete IGBTs, power modules, diodes, and bipolar junction transistors often used in small-signal circuits. Also, if you use special probes that look like needles, you can test the characteristics at the wafer level as in the video. By the way, which curve tracers are you guys using? Let me know in the comments. Now let's start the test. This is a genuine power semiconductor purchased through the official channel. Let's open the cover of the curve tracer and insert the power semiconductor in the socket here. This power semiconductor is TO-247 package with three pins. But you can insert a 4-terminal power semiconductor with a Kelvin source terminal as well. They are becoming popular lately. Now the setup is done. This is the main body of the curve tracer. By pressing this button, you can start the measurement. It's measuring all the values including the ones on the datasheet. This curve tracer is pretty good. It has a built-in switch that allows automatic measurement. When you use a conventional machine, you need to manually switch between the measurements of high current, high voltage, low current, and capacitance. You can also test the semiconductors under high and low temperatures, although we didn't try those tests this time. You don't need a constant temperature bath, so it doesn't take much space. If you're interested, please contact Keysight. The curve tracer has finished the test. Let's have a look. Parameters on the datasheet are displayed here, including the on-resistance. If you scroll down, you can find the VGS characteristics. You can also find the measurement results of the stray capacitance and gate charge. The test of the genuine power semiconductor has finished. Let's measure the fake one as well. All I need to do is to simply replace the power semiconductors. I'll take a closer look at the test results of this curve tracer later when I get back to the office. Static characteristics are done. Next, let's measure the dynamic characteristics using a double pulse tester. The curve tracer results show current on the vertical axis and voltage on the horizontal axis. However, the double pulse tester results show time on the horizontal axis because they are dynamic characteristics. A double pulse tester is often used to measure and analyze the switching characteristics of a semiconductor. During the test, a large current is applied to the power semiconductor, so the semiconductor may be damaged. That is why an explosion-proof cover is a part of the tester. Now let's try testing these genuine power semiconductors on this double pulse tester. There are sockets to insert the power semiconductors. I'll put them there. Done. Connect the probes, close the explosion-proof cover, and then press the start button over here. Now the double pulse test has started. The oscilloscope is displaying waveforms. This is how a double pulse test is performed. From these waveforms, you can see the dynamic characteristics such as the switching losses at turn-on and turn-off, The reverse recovery characteristics of the body diode, surge voltage, and so on. The purpose of a double pulse test is to see instantaneous transitions. High-speed switching devices are greatly affected by parasitic components caused by the jigs. For example, you obtain different waveforms depending on the person who performs the test. Therefore, in order to measure parameters correctly, you need to try various things such as to design a measurement board that minimizes parasitic components and to compensate the test results with the high frequency expertise. So basically this device is packed with Keysight's experience and expertise in measurement. This tester is designed so that anyone can get the same results. While I was talking, the double pulse test was finished. Waveforms are displayed on this computer. The same waveforms as the ones displayed on the oscilloscope. You can see the switching waveforms clearly. The switching characteristics are all calculated and shown here. Now that the double pulse test on the genuine semiconductors is over, I will do the same on the fake ones. Now, the double pulse test and the curve tracer test are successfully finished. I'll bring the output results back to the office to check it over and analyze the characteristics. I'm back at the office. I'm going to take a look at the curve tracer and double pulse test results. First, these are the power semiconductor parameters obtained by the curve tracer. The results are output in the format of a report. The left is genuine, and the right is fake. Before going into the curve tracer results, let's look at the datasheet published by Infineon. The MOSFET we tested is IRFP260NPbF. The MOSFET's withstand voltage is 200 V and its on-resistance is 40 mO. This MOSFET has a fairly low on-resistance. The drain current is 50 A. Let's zoom in to this table to check more detailed parameters. The drain current is 50 A, but it's the maximum current at 25degC. When the temperature is at 100degC, the maximum current is only 35 A. There are various other parameters written on the datasheet. I'm going to compare these parameters with the results we got with the curve tracer. I made a table that shows only important parameters. If you want to see other parameters, I attached the images of those parameters at the end of the video, so please have a look. Datasheet values, curve tracer results of the genuine product, and the curve tracer results of the fake product. First, let's look at the breakdown voltage of the semiconductors. All of them are around 200 V. The genuine one's value is almost the same as the datasheet. The fake one's breakdown voltage is also about the same. The withstand voltage is about the same. Next, let's look at the on-resistance. The data sheet says 40 mO. The measurement result of the genuine one is 36.2 mO. As for the fake one, it's 152 mO. 4 times larger than the datasheet. The fake one's getting pretty suspicious from here. Next, let's look at the capacitance of the MOSFETs. MOSFETs have parasitic capacitances at this part, this part, and this part. The capacitances of those parts are called Ciss, Coss, Crss, respectively. Let's look at the values. The genuine one's values are very close to the values on the datasheet. Almost the same. On the other hand, the fake one has much smaller input capacitance. About one fourth to one fifth of the datasheet values. Let's look at the gate charge values. The genuine one's gate charge values are about half of the datasheet values. They are smaller than expected. As for the fake one, it has even smaller gate charge values. The values of the fake one are about one tenth of the datasheet values. Let's compare the results of the genuine and fake products. The genuine one has a lower on-resistance and a higher gate charge compared to the fake one. On the other hand, the fake one has a higher on-resistance and a lower gate charge compared to the genuine one. In a MOSFET, the on-resistance and the parasitic capacitance or gate charge are in a trade-off relationship. If you try to lower the on-resistance, the chip area will become larger, which inevitably increases the capacitance. Judging from the results, the fake one is a completely different product. The genuine one is for high current as stated in the datasheet. On the other hand, the fake one is for low current and high-speed switching. Probably a different product under a fake package. Let's take a quick look at the other values obtained by the curve tracer. This graph shows the maximum current when a certain gate voltage is applied. The fake one has a slightly lower threshold voltage. Even when the gate voltage is low, the current flows quite well. On the other hand, the genuine one has the same characteristics as the data sheet. The threshold voltage is a little high, so when the gate voltage is low, low current flows. These are similar graphs of the maximum current. This is the datasheet, and this is the genuine product. They are almost the same. The fake one doesn't allow current to flow as much as the left two. This is because the fake one has a higher on-resistance. These graphs show the relationship between current and on-resistance. It wasn't on the datasheet. The genuine one has a low on-resistance. The fake one has a much higher on-resistance. These graphs show the current at the body diode of the MOSFETs. As for the body diode, the results were almost the same. Next is the parasitic capacitance. There is a big difference between the genuine one and the fake one. Lastly, the gate charge. The fake one's gate charge is small, but the genuine one's gate charge is also a lot smaller than the datasheet. As you can see, the genuine one's gate charge is quite small. The fake one has even smaller gate charge because its rated current is lower than the genuine one. Next, let's look at the results of the double pulse test. The results were output by the double pulse tester. The double pulse tester analyzes these switching waveforms and outputs the results automatically. In these graphs, the left two are the results of the genuine one and the right two are the fake one. Same goes for the rest. Genuine, fake, genuine, fake. This was expected from the static characteristics obtained by the curve tracer, but the genuine semiconductor's switching time is quite longer than the fake one, because the genuine one has a high gate charge. The turn-on and turn-off delay times of the genuine one are about twice as long as those of the fake one. Similar results are seen in the VDS rise time and fall time. The fake one has a lower gate charge, which means it has a higher switching speed. The fake one has a faster switching speed and therefore its switching loss is lower than the genuine one. The genuine one has a larger switching loss. By the way, the switching speed is adjustable to some extent by using a gate resistor. I explained about the switching speed and gate resistor in another video. Please take a look. The link is in the description. Let's see the reverse recovery characteristics of the MOSFET's body diode. This graph shows the reverse recovery current. This vertical axis does not start from zero, so These values are actually almost the same. These are the static characteristics of the diodes obtained with the curve tracer. The results were almost the same. On the other hand, the dynamic characteristics are quite different between the genuine one and the fake one. For example, the diode's recovery time of the genuine one is slightly longer. These differences were not noticeable from the static characteristics test. They became clear thanks to the double pulse test. From the results of the curve tracer test and the double pulse test, it became clear that the semiconductor obtained through the official channel and the one obtained through an unofficial channel are completely different products. Judging from the test results, the fake one was swapped with a product for low current. Next, I disassembled the semiconductors to compare the contents. The main difference is the chip area. The fake one has a small chip. The genuine one has quite a large chip. It's about 4 times larger than the fake one. Or rather, this amount of chip area is required to pass the current specified in the data sheet. The fake one passes a certain amount of current, but not as much as the genuine one. This is because it has a small chip. This difference in chip area was reflected in the differences in the on-resistance and parasitic capacitance obtained with the curve tracer. Now that the power semiconductor tests are complete, let's use them on this DC/DC converter. This DC/DC converter's input voltage is 80 V and the output voltage is 40 V. The output power depends on the inductor and cooling of the power semiconductor, but about 1 kW can be output. Let's take a look at the board. There are two MOSFETs. They are connected to the gate driver circuit. I used ICs that can be driven at +- 15 V. To drive the MOSFETs properly, positive and negative power supplies are required, which is why the circuit scale is quite large. It costs higher, but I like this circuit. This is a step-down converter circuit, so an inductor is used. However, I chose a wrong inductor. This inductor will be saturated. So I decided to use this larger inductor instead. It's pretty big. When the inductor is saturated, the current waveform looks like this. By the way, this board is double-sided. On the back side, I attached film capacitors for filtering. The film capacitors are connected to the MOSFETs in the shortest possible distance. If you put them on the front side, the arrangement of the heat sink and other components will become difficult, so I put them on the back side. And these are electrolytic capacitors for smoothing the input and output voltages. One for the input voltage and two in parallel for the output voltage. In order to improve the performance of the DC/DC converter, I chose capacitors with a very low ESR. If you use capacitors with a high ESR, the output voltage ripple becomes larger. As a result, the performance of the DC/DC converter becomes poor. Now the experiment setup is complete. I prepared a power supply and current and voltage measuring instruments. Also this. This is the DC/DC converter I built. It has various probes and other things attached. The heat sink is relatively small, so I'm using the fan over there to forcibly cool it down. Now let's start the experiment. It seems safe to apply voltage. I'll turn on the electronic load. It started applying load. Good. It's working perfectly. These are the waveforms. This blue waveform is the inductor current. Let me adjust a bit. The yellow waveform is the drain-source voltage of the high-side MOSFET. The red waveform is the drain-source voltage of the low-side MOSFET. Let me zoom in to see the details. The low-side MOSFET has a fairly large overshoot. The highest part of the overshoot is just under 200 V, pretty close to the withstand voltage. At this moment, the power consumption of the load is approximately 300 W. The heat sink attached to the converter is small, so the MOSFET temperature rises quickly. For a short period of time, the power consumption can be up to 650 W. This is the maximum. The temperature of the MOSFETs and the inductor keeps rising and the output power is gradually decreasing as you can see. If you keep running the converter at this state, what happens? It gets really close to the breakdown voltage of the MOSFET. So I don't recommend running in this condition for a long period of time. The MOSFETs will be broken. You need to design a good snubber circuit to avoid breakdown. This is the DC/DC converter's output voltage. Let's have a look at the ripple component. The ripple's quite small. Only several ten mV. However, the switching noise is significant. Let's enlarge the noise. Peak-to-peak fluctuation is about 2 V. This will be solved to some extent if you use an LC filter in the output stage of the DC/DC converter. Also it may help if you change the layout of the board so that smaller amount of noise is emitted. However, when the board uses large amount of power, has large components mounted, and generates a lot of heat, changing the board layout can be a little difficult. I also measured efficiency. Here is the efficiency graph. The horizontal axis shows the output power and the vertical axis shows the efficiency. There's a big difference. The highest efficiency of the genuine one is 97.3% at 110 W. The highest efficiency of the fake one is 97.3% at 75 W. When the power is low, both genuine and fake semiconductors operate at high efficiency. When the power is high, you can see the difference. As the output power increases, both semiconductors' efficiency declines. The genuine one's efficiency declines slowly, whereas the fake one's efficiency declines rapidly. For example, let's look at the efficiency when the output power is 550 W. The genuine product is 95.3%, and the fake one is about 92%. There's a big difference. The efficiency of the DC/DC converter with the genuine MOSFET also decreases, but the fake one's decrease rate is larger. Next, here is the power loss graph. The vertical axis shows the power loss. The fake one's power loss was so big that the MOSFET was about to be damaged from overheating. So I didn't measure the fake one to the end. Let's look at the power loss when the output power is 550 W. The loss of the genuine one is 27 W, while the fake one is 50 W, which is about twice as large as the genuine one. The loss of the genuine one is 27 W, while the fake one is 50 W, which is about twice as large as the genuine one. I also measured the temperature using a thermal imaging camera. I measured the temperature when the output power is 370 W. I used a circulator for cooling. When I used the genuine one, the temperature was 65. When I used the fake one, the temperature reached 85 and I stopped running the converter. From this thermography video, it seems the temperature would have risen even higher. I think it would have exceeded 100 if I didn't stop. From the curve tracer results and the DC/DC converter's efficiency and temperature measurement results, I would say the fake semiconductor has overall poor performance. Why does the fake one have poor performance? The important factors are the MOSFET's on-resistance and conduction loss. This figure is the equivalent circuit when the MOSFET is turned on, which means when the current can be passed. When the MOSFET is on, it has resistance called on-resistance. When the current is applied, conduction loss occurs at the MOSFET because it has on-resistance. The conduction loss is in proportion to the current squared. The power loss graph we saw earlier actually looked like a quadratic graph. Power loss is in proportional to the square of current. I think the relationship between current and on-resistance affected the efficiency a lot. The fake power semiconductor's on-resistance increases more rapidly as the current increases compared to the genuine one. Also the data obtained with the curve tracer shows that the fake MOSFET's on-resistance is a lot higher than the genuine MOSFET's on-resistance. The DC/DC converter I built for this video is for high current, so the amount of on-resistance greatly affects the efficiency of the converter. That is why the converter's efficiency was low when we used the fake MOSFETs with high on-resistance. The MOSFET we used today is IRFP260N. This product can handle high current. If you use a fake product that can only handle low current instead of the genuine one, you'll find the efficiency a lot lower than expected. We've only seen the conduction loss, but MOSFETs also cause switching losses. If you use different MOSFETs in a converter that handles even higher voltage, you can see the difference in switching losses. The converter we used was for high current, so the switching loss didn't affect the results so much. Today we operated a self-made DC/DC converter using genuine and fake power semiconductors. As we half expected, the fake power semiconductor had its content swapped. As a result, the DC/DC converter's efficiency was high when the genuine power semiconductors were used, and it was low when the fake power semiconductors were used. We checked the characteristics of the genuine and fake power semiconductors using the curve tracer and double pulse tester at Keysight and found out the reasons for the result of the experiment. Of course it's important not to use fake power semiconductors, but it's also important to choose the right power semiconductor that best suits your application. We used the test equipment to distinguish between genuine and fake power semiconductors, but there are other use cases. For example, you can obtain data that's not on the datasheet. You can check the characteristics of the semiconductors you obtained from a semiconductor fab. Also, it can be used for incoming inspection of semiconductor devices. It goes without saying that you shouldn't use a power semiconductor that you are not sure about its identity. Use a genuine power semiconductor that you purchased through the official channel. If you find this video useful, please comment, like and subscribe to the channel. Thank you for watching! Here is a data sheet of power devices obtained from the curve tracer and the double pulse tester. For more information on the datasheets,