One of the deepest questions any of us can ask the science loving part of me says, &quot;well, my brain is integrated.&quot; At the same time, &quot;my true self is the mind that Those are actually the same way of answering of this video both the science of that and So I just made the statement that my true self but let's backtrack because if we are going have to acknowledge the fact that our There are many places and ways we can become is really narrowed because our brain is only open certain information channels to flow. There I know in some other videos I talk about schemas to use as our framework, a form of therapy called deeply studies these places where we can get stuck and finding our way past these places, we have a is more freed up, creating an inner larger space, A place that I would like to propose we think invented IFS was developing this way of working kind of freer or truer self. In fact, he was first narrow or stickier aspects of our personality He, like many other therapists, took to calling As in, a part of me is very confident, maybe even at work. But then a part of me is really insecure clingy with my partner and needing them to, you uncommon to have very opposite parts like that. our personality, is something more intact, something to call the self. So we are going to sort of follow and in the same way that Schwartz and his study that's not a part. Here's the actual self.&quot; We too true self is, by first identifying what it is not. through a fairly deep dive of the science of parts. But in case you don't, I'll give just the summary types of parts, but in the last video I really whose main job it is, surprise surprise, to protect but we aren't pre-wired at birth with how a safe way. There's a lot to learn around how perhaps most importantly, for our survival, how to And it just so happens that that learning does but in what is called implicit memory. The most people know about is muscle memory. So in most of our psychology is set up as sort of these reflexive movement is to be really pleasing, or be These psychological movements exist in what I learned ways of being, designed to protect us, that and body a bit just in the same way if you were whether you want to or not. When these parts of us, take over, they can override what our and behaviors. So that even when we have the best non-defensive with our partner, or whatever, we reflexive way of behaving, or thinking, or feeling, arms come up and it's hard to control. Additionally, we adapt differently to different dangers. Like very pleasing and submissive and then some other And in that moment it's like we've become a pretty nice guy but then sometimes I'm not and it You can see in that example how we have lead, we can feel confused as to why we're I know I just gave an interpersonal example, and what parts of our inner world we're threatened maybe we learn to intellectualize around all the might be running most all the time, others might be mean when they say they were &quot;triggered&quot; and that it can be very frustrating and disempowering. In lead being blended with the part, and the first fact that it is possible to unblend is really but that first requires that we are aware of The moment we can slow down, become a bit more what part has taken over, and a real desire in that moment we have unblended. It's movement I mean sometimes there is more than one part like peeling back the layers of an onion, like, that reflexively blames my husband but when I man, I'm suddenly aware of another part and calling me names about it, etc.&quot; And that unblend from that. We will talk more about the point here is more about what Dick Schwartz He found that after a few layers, when he would so what part do you find next? And again and &quot;Well, what I'm with now, it isn't a part, it's just part that isn't a part, he began to call it We also might call it our &quot;true self&quot; or our &quot;deepest &quot;adult self&quot; or &quot;wise mind,&quot; but whatever you it is always there and it is always amazing. This is really profound so I want to slow down or unblend from our parts, a deeper part of us, naturally comes forward. And that's an amazing unique in some ways, there are some qualities S self possesses universally and those were sort There's nothing sacred about this list, but it So here it is and listen to this list because is: compassionate, connected, calm, creative, clear, to see that there is a spiritual feel to this and their spiritual growth work, bringing it to their manages to access this brain state or this mental of meditation to achieve, and yet what we are calm, creative, clear, curious, confident and work. This is not a trick. This is not just sounds good. At our core we all have tremendous of the human mind. We are innately curious. We're The reason we don't always have access to those state with conditioned ways of being. We've self. Our child self had to figure out other ways or connected, or whatever, and if we learn that or whatever, was necessary to protect Like a job almost. It's a job of our protector It's like a soldier doesn't leave its post. But leave their post, not because they're bad, in fact, and really should be treated like these little Remember in the last video we talked about neural firing pattern because they're It's an encoding of a pattern. When that happens, do you see how that's kind of simple? When that is inside that net. It does not bring to bear with a part, we aren't using our full cognitive and looks like using everything we've learned, but everything we've learned. It would look like not just focusing on what that part tells us seeing through its sort of biased perspective, but allowing our whole brain to come online, to full logical, rational, you know intelligence, so that we can be creative and flexible and deep. But that is a brain that is working, like full in that moment of integration, it is also a Picture a wild stallion trapped in a barn and at full speed, that's the freedom we're talking all four of its legs and its back and its neck everything it knows, and all ways of knowing from and all that information streams in an integrated and response, there is a power to that. Remember when we are both integrated, allowed to bring those are really the same thing. And I think that it's only fair to think of that as our true self. stallion is truly all about, you've got to let it we aren't integrated. All that information isn't knows or is, which is like a smaller psychological we find they can be free. Before we end this The mission to uncover our true self could sound want to be the real me,&quot; but the truth is there is essential for our survival as a human race. Yes, sense for us humans to rely on parts, that means brain, and food was scarce and that kind of other words finding our highest potential wasn't But now it is. You see the problems we are facing must have our full brains online. In other words, we our actual true self or big S self. In my mind, need child parts pretending to be, or trying to be, adults, who can see the world as complex, rather some equanimity, creativity, and gentle strength. So in the next video, we will more deeply parts so that our true self can emerge. So I I hope you found this video helpful, and if you did, if you're a therapist who would like to train with toriolds.com