Mass Effect told more than the story of Command It told a story of Love. Hope. Discovery. Destruction. But what if I told you, an entirety of the more dark, disturbing, and horrifying secrets... For those that don't know, an iceberg is theories on any topic. So today I wanted to take a look into the fiction worlds ever, where the first tiers hearted theories, and as we get deeper into and obscure conspiracies in all of Mass Effect. Many of the side missions in mass effect 1 barren planet to another to fight the same In a lot of ways Rouge V.I. is exactly the of players don't know about. You see, the mission tasks the player with intelligence that has gone rogue and taken After taking down the turrets guarding the and fight your way through a barrage of mechs. In each facility you are tasked with taking to shut it down, but it is only when destroying "A burst of white noise over all frequencies Your hardsuit's heads-up display interprets They repeat again and again, blanketing all VI cluster flicker and die" Most players probably stopped here and moved code into ASCII you get one simple phrase: "Help." This message relayed to you from the virtual effect universe that these machines may be Even the note on the quest tab after completing has become sentient. And even further another scene many players a rogue A.I. on the citadel in the finance district that it has become sentient. These two moments lead strong credence to universe are more than just mindless machines, Also fun side note, that V.I. that you kill revealed in Mass Effect 2 and 3 to be the over by Cerberus and placed on the Normandy One of the most beloved DLCs of all time, the Mass Effect 3 Citadel DLC. It was the final piece of content for the chance to hang out with all of those lovable in one last laid back and whimsical adventure. The DLC has a much different tone than the a nice change of pace it also feels out of we share many obscure moments with the characters, Too good to be true. And well, that might be because it is. You see Avina, the virtual intelligence unit way around the complex in all the games, in When asking about Purgatory, the main nightclub on and on about the Christian conception of she would simply speak about the actual nightclub This moment along with the weird oddities moments we have here may actually be taking of Shepard at the end of Mass Effect 3. Replaying this DLC under this context adds how you see it. Another small tidbit many players don't that originally Bioware intended to allow at any point during the story. Instead in the final release what we actually recruiting squadmates, where some characters the Horizon main mission where you find Ashley It is interesting to think about what only seen had we had the chance to take some of In fact, for the Mass Effect Legendary edition were almost added back into the game along decided against. Today you can experience some of these hidden For those of you who didn't play Mass Effect you meet on your journey is a female Turian During some dialogue sequences while driving Drax that she doesn't actually know who is that he was a special ops agent who got and leaving the family when she was young. Where this gets interesting, is when we dig her Mother was actually a high ranking military that would have given her access to one of youngest Turian Spectre, Saren. You see Turians usually take the surnames case this surname is Nyx, which is also the from chaos, or in our case, Vetra being born On top of this, in the Mass Effect Revelations of Mass Effect 1, we learn about Saren's grid, which coincides exactly with the years These implications would mean that we can Effect Andromeda, which would instantly make The next tier leads us into some stranger ones that can fundamentally change how you As most of you already know, the story of ships called Arks that have traveled all the Andromeda. It's later on in the main storyline of of for this initiative in the first place was the advanced races a way of survival should all intelligent life in the Milky Way. It's a very cool, if not obvious reveal, the question, why was this not thought of But you see that is just the thing, we don't We can already see examples of previous cycles multiple civilizations working on things like In fact, if anything the Protheans in their than the current one Shepard lies in, as they of the keepers initiating doom on the Citadel. When we start to think about it logically that other civilizations have tried to escape successful the even more intriguing thought The Angara and Kett in Andromeda bear striking trilogy, could they be descendents from a ago? And even more interestingly, could these Arks out more about the reapers and the galaxy A potentially intriguing concept for a new The Mass Effect universe is full of many interesting to dive into as much detail as many of the And one of the most obscure examples of this Introduced in the final installment of the alien species that hail from the planet Turvess, locate on the galaxy map throughout the series. Originally spotting an Asari cruiser over contact and are introduced to the Citadel, tech space suits to protect other races from early on. Right as the Raloi started having discussions seeing the incoming Reaper invasion that happens to their homeworld, destroying all satellites in a gambit to hope the reapers would leave This is because the reapers on their harvest intelligent organic species, so the Raloi the next cycle. As to whether the Reapers would have killed them it is hard to say, but it does beg the have been fortunate enough to trick the Reapers. Considering that the Raloi only just found Either way though, it is sad we never got Asari are a common fan favorite mass effect But what if I told you that Asari's don't You see in a short conversation we can listen Salarian, Turian, and human we find out that own image. This means that these humans like Asari that that because they are mimicking what our brains As we already know through encounters with Morinth in the second, Asarai have a strong making us see and hear things that aren't So this begs the question then, what do Asari And could this also be why all Asari are seen As females are commonly regarded as the fairer These implications become scary when we start about the Asari race could actually just be We know that Asari children are always born mated with, so maybe the Asari are actually the galaxy by tricking other species into influence. However, we do see some Asari statues at their statues do in fact look like the human-like once again be more manipulation and tech even If these theories are true though, that would we love like Liara, who may in fact be a parasitic galaxy. For those paying very close attention to the apparent early on that some of the promotional resembled the explosion of the citadel mass We know this relay was much more powerful transport the reapers to and from dark space So when it exploded at the end of the trilogy of the Milky Way was not too out of left field. However the wormhole theory actually postulates the entire Milky Way galaxy, but actually a massive gravitational well that could have Andromeda galaxy, for which we see that explosion To further support this, in the ending cutscene and some of the Normandy squad surviving the unknown planet in a jungle. Could this planet actually be the same overgrown We may never know for sure. The Rachni are one of the coolest creatures them in a sort of horror reveal on Noveria especially in Mass Effect 3, they play a pivotal the reapers. Over the entire series though, the Rachni and we never truly find out about their origins, What we do know is that at one point the Rachni the council to unleash the Krogan warriors This is actually one of the main drivers for empowered the Krogan to demand more say in But as to where the Rachni even came from An egg was found on a derelict ship that was real info we get. This is where it gets interesting though. You see the Rachni Queen in Mass Effect 1 and this has resulted in a problem with her We learn here that the Rachni queens actually some sort of sound waves, and that something And interestingly another being in the galaxy the keepers on the citadel, who respond to through a mass relay on the citadel. So could it be that the rachni were being were could this mean they have some sort of Maybe the Reapers were using them as some for their eventual arrival? This potentially got further clarification where it is implied by an Alliance scientist by the Leviathans as a plan from them to stop have disrupted their control. Next up, our third tier thrusts us into some in all of mass effect, that many players may The Thorian is one of the coolest moments in the first game. The creature is originally found near the travel to in the first game in order to check After fighting through hoards of turned colonists creature, you eventually find your way to to as the Thorian. You learn that the Thorian has actually existed the Protheans, and that it holds the key known you unlocked earlier in the game. This is because the Thorian devours and obtains them completely. And by devouring Protheans tens of thousands that the Protheans once had. It's a cool concept on paper but the craziest the Thorian again... We simply leave Feros with our new found knowledge last we ever see of the Thorian at all. This is especially interesting because not of indoctrination ability like the Reapers make us ask questions like how did the Thorian It is obviously a highly intelligent organic The only other major species we know that but at least from them we get some answers get nothing. Which makes this mystery all the more intriguing, have with the being in the first game, it the most powerful creatures in all of mass dark and sinister secrets that could further in the Milky Way all this time. One of the coolest features of every Mass It allows players to not only traverse their simply read up on a lot of lore of places Most of the time this lore is pretty basic background on what is happening on the planet, a much more interesting backstory. The first one is from Mass Effect 3, called Scans reveal that there is a baffling amount surface that are too regular in pattern to Many scientists have suggested that Ploba being housed in these mega structures, or nearby species. Either way, we may never know. The next planet is Logan, from Mass Effect Similar to Ploba this gas giant was surveyed several large and distinct objects were on However, even more horrifying in this case, out of thin air when observed, and no answers happened with this phenomenon. Similar to the Raloi, the virtual aliens are about in Mass Effect 3, but this time, they back story that is quite unique to the Mass The virtual aliens, whose real name we still near the edge of the Milky Way or just outside The virtual alien's nearby sun was close themselves and their future they created a over one billion individuals uploaded their resources and ensure survival. The ship was controlled by artificial intelligence into Salarian space, where first contact was The council swiftly decided to help the virtual and were on the verge of extinction because To do so, 400 volunteers from citadel space bodies to join into the matrix-like computer living in. In exchange one virtual alien was able to our universe, in order to communicate with The aliens expressed their desire to come where the story stops, and as to what lies not know. What we DO know though is that this is an and meeting virtual aliens who have taken for their entire lives is the kind of stories More than most things on this list, I really future. The Keepers are one of the most mysterious the Mass Effect games. They are the strange creatures that keep the as we learn at the end of Mass Effect 1 they mass relay to try and let the reapers into In multiple games we are also able to try they are harboring a peculiar genetic makeup on the citadel, simply working on tasks that One of the most damning scenes in the original in the Shadow Brocker DLC. You see after defeating the Shadow Broker the galaxy's most well involved benefactor, the old files that the Shadow Broker had that Some of these show scenes of espionage early characters. But the most peculiar videotape we see is in a small room. What is this keeper on the videotape hiding? Where is this facility? And what exactly is going These files and tapes are only for the most the galaxy, so there must be more going on But this is all we get, and because of that Are there people that have discovered the And if they have what does it all mean? Eletania is a planet we travel to in Mass Module, where Admiral Hackett informs us that planet's surface and we need to retrieve It seems like a pretty routine mission and fight some bad guys, and g et your data core. What some players may have missed is that meets the eye. When you first land on the planet you are which, if tracked down turns out to be a mysterious A large sphere suspended in air surrounded After approaching the object and decrypting " at it in anger and the creature rises up quickly With a satisfied grund you make your way back You fall into the familiar patterns of life and keep a mate, the battles against other Days roll into nights and back into days. Each time you rise from sleep there is a sensation is with you sharing all you see, hear and At these times your hand goes to the strange the silver creature in the sky. The air grows colder, winter falls. You must range farther for food, clutching chill. It is on one of these long hunts that the You hear it before you see it, it's call a swooping down on you. A single great eye opens on the underbelly, You try to run, but a finger of red light all goes black again. You wake an instant later to find yourself artifact looming above you undamaged and your They help you to your feet, puzzled. 'There was a flash of light and you just one explains. 'Are you okay, Shepard?' the other asks. You don't answer right away, wondering at memories of a Cro-Magnon hunter, captured How long did they study the primitive humans, their base on Mars? And what, if anything, did they learn from " This vision Shepard has shows that the Protheans that we were not destroyed in their cycle enough as a species. In fact that red light vision seen in the with a reaper ever, and foreshadows are doom is going on. An awesome revelation that many fans of the Finally, our last tier gives us a glimpse in all of Mass Effect. The theories that can entirely change our and its meaning. It is well known by now that many fans did trilogy. All of the decisions we made and relationships Instead it all came down to three choices, For people like me the green ending was the more importantly, maybe this ending was actually a whole. You see at the end of Mass Effect 3 the crucible able to use it to Destroy all synthetic life, entirely. Right before the choice though we are met has been seeing throughout the game in his intelligence that controls the reapers. The Catalyst is the mastermind behind the the leviathans to protect them before it turned only way to actually preserve all organic The Catalyst argues that all organic life in order to improve their lives. But it is through this very process of improvement more capable than their creators, which inevitably already seen turned proof in the series multiple This gets even more intriguing though when The mastermind is very knowledgeable about but when we ask further we simply are told For a mastermind and evil A.I. This seems fishy to not give full context the answers, and maybe this is for a reason. Because maybe the Crucible wasn't something to finally stop the reapers, in fact maybe Catalyst. You see the Catalyst's prime directive, future of organic life at all costs, and as main goal today. So what if the plans for the crucible were Catalyst realized that the only way to save eventually have them join together with synthetics The crucible isn't our salvation, it is A test to see if organisms over millions of of the reapers, can finally ascend into something It would perfectly explain these cycles from trail to force organics down the path to synthesis, Shepard is nothing more than the final conclusion hopefully, from the Catalyst perspective is the synthesis ending to join all organic and And it is in this final moment that the Catalyst to make that decision, after all only if shepard it indicate through all the Catalyst work from the shackles of doom. It explains the weird dream-like sequences are directed to stop Sheapard at the Catalyst, The Catalyst allows this to happen because what it was originally created to do, save Piggybacking off the idea of the Catalyst beings even earlier on in the story, a small As early as in Mass Effect 1 players can find which is owned by a Volus billionaire named The codex entry explains that Shol was shown this planet that explained to him to see the on the planet and that they were created to the synthetic "machine devils" The reason this entry is so weird is because the same beings that the Catalyst is, the created by the Leviathans that created the But if that is the case why do these beings protect life from the machine devils?? Could this be further proof that the Catalyst and that synthesis IS the correct ending? Maybe these beings of light, the Catalyst against the reapers, and merely using them If that is not the case then this mystery are more Catalyst like creatures that are universe at all times, almost like the Gods One theory I have as well is this could have story, but later on Bioware reworked their Catalyst ending. Either way, it is cool to see from this theory list how much planning and foresight went from just the first game. The Indoctrination might actually be the most originally gained popularity after a youtuber ago after the conclusion of Mass Effect 3. It argues that at some point either in Mass or after Shepard's death in the second, our by the reapers powers. This explains why the ending sequence of Mass Many players noticed that the entire last to the illusive man, and eventually talking out of place and almost dream-like. It could be that at this point Shepard has and Catalyst's power and is simply imagining through his subconscious. We have seen multiple characters throughout by the powers of Indoctrination, most notably characters as well. Mind control is a key talking point of the theory ties perfectly into this, it even could as it could potentially imply that the Catalyst the correct choice. It could also mean, as the theory originally actually trying to indoctrinate Shepard into of destruction. But I buy very little into this, as the Catalyst on the Crucible as well as a multitude of actually making no sense in the first place. Destroying the reapers does nothing, as a create A.I. that turns against them again, cycles. Also, another fun fact is the indoctrination paragon and renegade system throughout the The reason Shepard is able to influence so because he is in fact indoctrinated by the of influence. Even more interesting if we take this theory Shepard is not being indoctrinated by the or Thorians instead, as he has had an encounter mind control subjects. Either way, it seems quite clear that there decisions at the end of the Mass Effect trilogy Yet another theory that potentially ties all is the Dark Energy Theory. This theory postulates that Tali's loyalty of the REAL danger to the galaxy, the one protect us from. In the mission it is heavily implied that to going supernova because of the events of death. In fact, one of the main writers Drew Karpyshyn have left Bioware have actually heavily implied the ending of Mass Effect. A reveal that the Reapers were killing civilization time for a way to stop this spread of dark If this were in fact true that would mean trilogy and that they were simply trying to inevitable death at the hands of dark energy And this brings us to the final theory on one that not only ties everything we have of what the next Mass Effect game will be I actually already made a video about this on and elaborate more on this idea. You see we currently have no idea where the a theory that I hope comes true because it What if the Catalyst and Reapers were the to protect all organic life, as they were What if there was a dark energy close to destroying cycle was ultimately building towards humanity to become a new all powerful being that could But what if as implied in the mass effect chose was destruction, the red ending. In the trailer we see multiple destroyed mass on an icy planet. So what if Shepard made a mistake and chose by the Reapers to save us. This would open up the potential for a new made a grave mistake, and that our biggest was only alluded to in the second game, a intended to include. The game could open with us in a galaxy that all synthetics, some fridge groups would be on new A.I. systems, and there would be multiple new races the Reaper's failed invasion. The main story could center around a new character, true threat in the galaxy and finding a way This could even tie into Andromeda and the You see in Andromeda there was a strange mythical and killing them called the scourge, and we is. Could it be that the scourge is actually dark Could it be Andromeda was a warning to us was. This would imply that dark energy was not all galaxies and the entire universe with What if the next Mass Effect game told the and fantastical stories and races to discover. And of the discovery that Shepard was wrong, the scourge, the dark energy, from killing This journey could take us to the edges of potentially find that Ark that was lost in us to still alive reapers drifting in dark finding a solution with the help of our sworn time, but the entire galaxy as we know it. Mass Effect is one of the most beloved franchises The universe is rich with intrigue and lore, have with them will live on with us forever, leaves us with. I'm excited for the next mass effect not or a new cast of characters. But because we finally get to dive into this has so many more stories to be told and conspiracies As always thanks for watching and supporting It means a lot, and let me know down below guys are interested in and what you want to Thanks.