- I have been fighting since I was born against two queens who and against countless men They all had designs on The Pope and half of Europe However, my most fierce opponent was my very own heart. (dramatic music) I was the Queen of England. I was the head of the English church and reigned over a proud people. I had led my country through but now, I was facing the (dramatic music) Spain had declared war on me. The leading world power was to our little island. I had become too powerful. The Spanish king hated me because I wasn't a Catholic. (dramatic music) 130 Spanish ships, all heavily armed, were bearing down on the coast of England. They were manned with 30,000 soldiers. The Spanish Armada. (dramatic music) I was afraid. At that moment I thought, England is lost. (dramatic music) This battle my people, I'm only a woman. I only have the body of Men for England. Is there another way to put it on? I'm suffocating. - Be careful, your wig. - My lady, your troops are ready. - How I loathe these wars, all the money, all the bloodshed, and then we don't know how it'll turn out. - [Man] Eyes right. Forward march. Company, get your eyes right men. Prepare for the queen's speech. - Can you tell me what We can't see anything, The soldiers are restless. I advise you to go to your men. They want to see their queen. - [Man] Company halt. (dramatic music) - Your scepter. (dramatic music) - [Elizabeth] Should our only my soldiers could save our country. I didn't know what happened at sea, but I knew that my men believed in England and they believed in me. (dramatic music) - Attention. Eyes right. (dramatic music) - I had one weapon that I have come to you to join resolve to live or die with you, lying together in the dust for my God, and for my kingdom, for my I only have the body of a weak woman, but I have the heart a King of England. And my heart is full of dares to invade the borders of my country. (soldiers cheer) I was only a woman, the most Until now I had conquered every challenge, which nobody had counted on, not even me. My birth was a massive not a successor to my father's throne. Women were mere pawns My father King Henry He needed a male heir. Divorces, executions, he of the Roman Catholic Church. This made him an enemy of (dramatic music) At the end, my father My half-brother Edward who died early, my older, half sister Mary, and me. (dramatic music) I was sent away as a child to the country. Here I was to learn everything that behooved a royal princess. (soft harpsichord music) But that wasn't enough for me. I wanted to have the best - The sun, Earth, moon, which rotates around which? - As to Copernicus, the first is that of the fixed stars. But the first of the following - Exactly how long is required for it to completely travel its course? - It takes about 30 years - Explain. (dramatic music) - Then follows Jupiter, followed by Venus and Mercury. And here in the middle I could speak six different languages. As Don Rose. I studied ancient classics, and loved mathematics. At 15, I was better educated There was nothing I wouldn't excel at. I wanted to steel myself for When I was 20 years old, my half sister Mary ascended the throne and my nightmare began. (gulls squawk) - Torture, burn, and hang them all. - Majesty, that would be hundreds. - All the better. This Protestant plague on - [Elizabeth] Mary Tudor, she was very different from me. We had the same father, Hers was Spanish, mine was English. She was Catholic, I was brought - My lady, please reconsider. These are still your people They have a name for you on the street. - I know. I know that, Bloody Mary. (eerie music) - Don't you think that it is high time that we consider returning to our flock, my lady? - Sheep. Yes, precisely, that is a Stubborn and stupid. Just look at my sister, (dramatic music) Is she actually my flesh and blood because she is the worst of them all. - I don't understand Your Majesty. - What is there to not understand. - With respect, the people love your little sister. - The daughter of that whore Anne Boleyn. She's plotting together with all these filthy Protestant schemers. (dramatic music) Lock her in the Tower. (dramatic music) (thunder crashes) (eerie music) - [Elizabeth] She actually locked me up. Every day I expected death to come. So many had already been Like my mother, Anne Boleyn. (eerie music) (thunder crashes) (eerie music) I tried desperately to make I pleaded for Mary to listen to me. For months I tried in vain. (eerie music) (dramatic music) Then finally she received me. Mary wanted England to be Catholic again. And I was standing in her way, for I was next in line to the throne and God knows, no friend to her church. (dramatic music) - What do you want? - For you to listen to me. - And? - Why do you treat me like an enemy? - Aren't you an enemy? - My lady, I am your sister. - You've betrayed the And you want my throne you bastard. You've united with all these - I will lead this island And you will not stand in my way. The Pope and Spain are both - I have never been part of any kind of I assure you I'm loyal. I am your subject. - Have you suddenly become - Give me some time to better There is a lot that I have to learn. I beseech you, let me go. (dramatic music) I will do everything that you ask, on everything that's holy, (dramatic music) I swear it. (dramatic music) I had learned to be a good actress. Lying wasn't hard for me. Her faith didn't matter to me. (dramatic music) I wanted to live. (dramatic music) She believed me and let me go. (dramatic music) I moved to the country far From this remote place, I the Spanish king, were expecting a child. But instead of an heir to and then came the news (dramatic music) Mary was dead, and suddenly I was the Queen of England. (dramatic music) (bells ring) I inherited a difficult legacy, but I could've hardly expected it. The fate of England was Unfortunately, I had to who always knew better. My Lords, a new wind - My lady, it is with extreme but you are inheriting a poor The coffers are empty. The people divided by their faith. - Then it seems we've got work to do. I haven't made you all my - [Cecil] Yeah. What do you suggest Cecil? - Madam, since you ask so directly, please end the heretic the people will thank you for it. - [Man] Yes, that's right. - Very good. Do what is necessary. And plan a journey through England for me. - But Your Majesty, these you are the queen. Thus, I ask you, please and your health for these - My people shall see me and I want to see my people - That is much too dangerous, since there are still who want your life. - But don't I have all these - Majesty with respect, you just don't know these crazy people. Believe me, against them - You Majesty must not set off, but the soldiers of our army must go, if you will allow it, that a blow against the Catholics. (dramatic music) - If I want to live, I must let live. And to rule, I need the people, my people, regardless of belief, It concerns England, not religion. I don't need any kind of I want tolerance. We go from Greenwich onwards to Dartford, where I would like to be Then we go to Eltham and then to Glastonbury, where I would like to be Then on to West Horsley to Lord Fiennes, and on the way I would like to make two or three stops in small villages. Suggest some suitable ones, gentlemen. At the end of September, (inspiring music) It was on this journey that I (inspiring music) England was dreadfully poor, the nobility corrupt, So it was if time was standing still. My people were terribly uneducated. There were a few schools, hardly anyone could read and write. My subjects were starving. I wanted to change that. (inspiring music) Sheep farming needed wealth. English cloth was highly sought I supported traders, Everyone who had ideas made and more powerful. And I supported the universities, for we needed clever minds (inspiring music) I ruled with passion. It was tiring and robbed me of strength, but it was precisely how I wanted it. Everything could have been so lovely had it not been for this (dramatic music) (Elizabeth speaks in a foreign language) Have you come to pay homage to (Elizabeth giggles) - Majesty, I have the great (man speaks in a foreign language) - The Spanish can't help it. (Elizabeth speaks in a foreign language) Wait, that's not all. (Elizabeth speaks in a foreign language) I know, I know. - The king is impressed - Oh, is that right. What an honor. But, I would like to discuss the merits of virginity I'm thinking only of our mother of God. And let us all consider the It gives us the room and the time to rule. And that is my duty to this throne. I am the queen, leader of England, not a candidate for marriage. - Majesty, that is your opinion, but if you don't have any children, who will inherit the throne? - But I am still very And until then, I would if the flowers of friendship could continue to grow as (dramatic music) You've taken a lot of my time. (Elizabeth speaks in a foreign language) (dramatic music) I can't listen to it anymore. Isn't there anything more important? What is it that bothers you so? What is it with men? You're constantly after Why is he so interested, That Papist troll trying to impress me just 'cause he's from Madrid. - Majesty, the king is His courtship seems quite serious to me. And a match with him would - Am I on the cattle market? I feel like a cow being put on the block. Who wants to have this magnificent animal&gt; - [Cecil] Majesty, it is about an heir to the throne. - Either I go to bed with The main thing is that you get - Male and legitimate. - Shut your mouth. England doesn't need a Spaniard, nor an impertinent Secretary of State, who dares to try and tell his queen who she shall marry or not. (dramatic music) - Majesty, I ask you. - I won't allow public debates Careful, if you say that I am Tell the Spanish king I kept the Spaniard waiting I preferred to reign rather than marry, and to amuse myself. - So we would have these from Robert Earl of Leicester in blue. (relaxing music) Or these ones here from the (relaxing music) Or perhaps, the pearls from Francis Drake. (woman giggles) (Elizabeth sighs) (relaxing music) - Fantastic, these despicable pearls. - Aren't they pirate pearls, madame? - No, no, no. Without our little adventurers, all the pretty treasures and that would be a shame. - Will he be here today? - Francis? He who sails around the I hope so though. Francis Drake, it was a well-known secret that I profited from his piracy. The Spanish were seething with rage. After all, it was their - I'm really quite anxious as to how long it will still go well. - Now who says that the New World only belongs to the Spanish? The Pope, but who still A pirate? Certainly not. The main thing is that my share on top. - So, we don't want to dance (Elizabeth giggles) - I don't drink, I hardly eat, This is my one and only vice. - And what is Robert Dudley? (dramatic music) - Robert. If there were a man in Let us dance. Music! He was my great love, clever, charming, funny, unfortunately far from my Our relationship didn't only the whole of Europe was yapping. Why doesn't the queen (upbeat harpsichord music) I had enough suitors. (upbeat harpsichord music) Philip of Spain, My handsome Swede Erik, couldn't wait. Emperor Ivan, a bit too horrible. Et voila, Francois, my (upbeat harpsichord music) Only you Robin, my red breast, (dramatic music) Robin don't be an idiot, never. - Why not? You refuse everyone, Spanish, French, Catholics, Protestants, rich, powerful, all of them. - You think I should bring A husband who tells me how I should reign. Sons who want my crown. If I hadn't died in childbirth that is. - If you don't want any of them, then take me. (Elizabeth sighs) Elizabeth, choose us. - My darling Robert, a queen before the altar, before God, with a stable master. - You're the most powerful You can do what you want. - Exactly, and I don't want to marry. No, I'll remain a virgin, - Do you want to wither like - I simply don't want Not for love, nor for a quick adventure. I won't marry, I'll remain free. (door creaks) - Madam, forgive me. I have bad news. - Don't make such a face, Cecil. Out with it already. - Mary of Scotland has I don't need to tell you what that means. It is high time for you Either you have a child or or a foreigner on the throne. (dramatic music) (door creaks) (dramatic music) - [Elizabeth] Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland. For the Catholics, she to my father. (baby cries) And now she had something a male heir for her country, (dramatic music) for Scotland. I wanted to bind the country to England, but now the wind was changing. Mary and her followers wouldn't rest until she or her son were But then Mary's torrid love affairs ruined her political plans. One of her lovers killed her husband to get him out of the way. That was too much, murder for love. - It would be wonderful if you - [Elizabeth] How foolish of her. The Scottish nobility wanted her gone, forced her to abdicate. And what did she do? She actually fled from her own kingdom and suddenly appeared in England, and asked me of all people for help. What should I do with her? - Why so hesitant madam? Throw Mary in the Tower. She may soon be sitting on your throne if we're not careful now. England's Catholics see their - Not in the Tower. - It won't be too long before there's a Catholic plot against us. - We could give her a castle and not allow her to leave it. - You want to spend money - If we throw her in the Tower. we will set half of Europe We must avoid that. I don't want a war. England is not ready for that. - Majesty, I beseech you. You have to be tough. - She was my enemy, but Should I lock her up? Would Mary have done that to me? Place her under house Give her clothes, maids, Whoever's well-treated makes no complaints and everyone will calm down. Those that can't stir the pot - Check. - Huh. (dramatic music) But I had been mistaken. It wasn't long before the A Catholic queen in Protestant shackles. Even if they were golden, that (dramatic music) (horse neighs) (dramatic music) - Alleged Queen of England, Elizabeth is ex-communicated her claim to the throne to be unlawful. - You see that. - Caution, Elizabeth and then she will lock and perhaps you as well. - Come on, she wouldn't dare to do that. I'm the queen's royal cousin, all right. - I must warn you, it I beseech you, hold yourself back. - Why should I? My feeling is that you're The Catholics here in They see me as their queen. They'll fight for me. - My lady, do you not Elizabeth is now outlawed. Every Catholic has been Everyone is after her life and Elizabeth can't accept that. Believe me, she will retaliate. I warn you urgently, hold back, otherwise you (dramatic music) - Excommunicated! The arrogance of it. - We must react to it. (dramatic music) - If I want to live, I must let live. I had sworn that when I wanted to be tolerant. And I was, until this day. Go get me Walsingham. I don't need a watchdog. I actually couldn't stand him. But he was the right man for the job. (woman cries) - [Francis] Confess your - [Elizabeth] Francis Walsingham. He had thousands arrested He uncovered every plot against me. How did he find out everything? I never asked him. (woman sobs) (dramatic music) Was I still a good queen? Now I had blood on my hands, the blood of my own people. I had to do what I didn't want to. I couldn't do anything else. (dramatic music) And I had to bear this burden alone. (dramatic music) - I'm just waiting for the day when your spy knocks at my door. - Do you actually know how many plots there have been against - I guess a lot. I thought you didn't want I always thought that you wanted to- - How can you dare reproach You know, nothing. Torture's not good, it's not. But to do nothing would be a big mistake, a sign of weakness. I can't let high treason go unpunished. - No, you can't do that. - Robert, was that what you wanted to tell me. - Perhaps your henchmen are going too far. Your people are not your enemies, but Spain and Rome who and she is the one who's behind all of it, this Catholic plot. - There is no proof of that. (dramatic music) I had saved Mary from the Tower, given her a castle and (dramatic music) Robert was right. All the time she was working and the Spanish king. They were all in it together, planning to overthrow (dramatic music) I didn't want it to be true. But Walsingham delivered the evidence. (dramatic music) The coded letters he I had to act. Mary Stuart was put on trial (dramatic music) Just my signature was needed to send her to the gallows. (Elizabeth sighs) - Planned murder is high treason. The queen must sign the judgment. - Can't you encourage her? - She's agonizing. - My God, Mary must be gone. I don't understand this hesitation. - The people are also impatient. But it's hard to understand have been executed, but not her. - You do not behead a queen - With a stroke of a pen? There was a proper trial and - I would have expected more What do you think will happen if we take this Catholic queen's head off? Then France and Spain Elizabeth is clever enough would not survive such a war. And Mary is ordained by Behead her, then all monarchs can be, Elizabeth too. - Yes, that could happen. Therefore, we must be quicker, right? (dramatic music) - [Elizabeth] What was right? What was wrong? That was irrelevant. It was either her or me. (dramatic music) - [Man] Pray with us. - If you really want to pray for me then I thank you for that. However, I am not able to join my prayers together with yours because we (dramatic music) - [Man] She didn't pray for her soul. - [Woman] She doesn't (dramatic music) - [Executioner] Please forgive me. - I do forgive you with all of my heart, for it is my hope that you with one stroke. Into your hands Lord I commend my spirit. Into your hands Lord I commend my spirit. Into your hands Lord I commend my spirit. (dramatic music) (ax thuds) (dramatic music) - Who, who dared to do it? Who deceived me? Which one of these damn I want his head. - You signed the paper yourself Majesty. (metal clatters) But I never passed it on, never. You knew about it, you. (soft piano music) (dramatic music) I had betrayed what was important to me, my royal status, my conviction. (dramatic music) What would they later write about me? How would they think of me? Elizabeth the great or (dramatic music) Was I no more than a murderer? (dramatic music) No, I am the Queen of England, and everything that I do is and its subjects. England is my fate. And now my fate is also England's. (dramatic music) England needed me now, for What should we do? They are superior in number, they are heavily armed, and We are not. And the Spanish Armada out matches us. Spain rules the sea. To fight it on the open seas is madness. So what should we do, my lords? - My lady, but they are They are unfamiliar with not to mention the current, We let them sail into the English Channel and then carry out our plan. - Our plan? - We load a couple of set them alight, and send them toward the Spanish ships into the middle of their formation. - If the wind is favorable to us. - There will be panic. They will cut the anchor lines and the proud Armada will - As I said, if the - Then we attack them That is our chance. It's the only one we have. (dramatic music) - Then, we'll seize the chance we have. (dramatic music) God be with us. (dramatic music) Revenge for Mary Stuart It was about ruling the seas. How quickly the world turns. The Spanish king, who sent his Navy to destroy me. The battle raged just off our coastline. There was a nagging uncertainty. Then the cannon stopped thundering at sea. (dramatic music) - Spanish ships? - I don't know yet. - Shall we bring out the - No. (dramatic music) That's our Navy. Those are our ships there. (man cheers) (men cheer) - [Man] For the queen. For the queen. - [Elizabeth] England was saved. Spain had been brought to its knees. Now a new age could finally begin. (dramatic music) Mine. I wore the English crown for 45 years. I never married nor had children. I was never alone, but often lonely. That was the price I paid. Was this price too high? I don't think so. (dramatic music) (horse neighs) (dramatic music)