Possibly one of the worst experiences ever is when boot up, no matter what you try and you have but by that point you can't boot into Windows I'm going to give you four different bootable that has all kinds of different recovery tools you will be prepared. And this could be whether virus that is protecting itself so you can't do keep saying Windows, but only two of these are going to apply no matter what kind of And by the way, if you don't have a you get them dirt cheap on Amazon, like five of All right. So the first boot drive I'm going actually a CD. It just used to be called that so knife of recovery tools. It has a whole bunch then you can run all of them outside of Windows Now the original Hiren Boot CD which was really But some of the supporters of the project actually now to this day, it's called PE because it runs And you can look on the website. Of course, in the description. You can see a list in it. And these will be pre-installed on the environment when you boot into it. And when you PE or pre-installation environment, which is Windows 10. It's not meant to be a Windows version for running outside of an operating system. which means it doesn't install to a drive current hard drive or installation. It you're going to get some of the standard Windows of Windows like Command Prompt, Notepad, Disc also some useful third-party programs are You got a bunch of hard drive tools for data recovery. You can see all sorts of which obviously are helpful if you boot record tools like easy BCD in case your a lot of this stuff is advanced. You might not but sometimes it's simply just nice to be to be able to maybe copy files off of it and have peace of mind that they're still there, and before you reformat or something. And it's really So even just being able to navigate through before we continue, I do want to Privateinternetaccess. Privateinternetaccess is protect your internet connection even your own internet service provider. since 2014. You can literally see my billing install the VPN software. Then you can choose countries. And the same goes for the mobile apps good. And this is especially important on your wifi hotspots that are not secure otherwise. It And it's also available as browser extensions a bunch of additional features like a VPN kill connection and PIA mace, which can block trackers, like choosing the specific protocol for it also supports peer-to-peer connections such as should, they do not keep any logs of any kind. And If you go to Privateinternetaccess.com/ThioJoe, which comes out to just around $2.59 cents down in the description. And with that being the next bootable USB drive is an Ubuntu Live So this could be useful if you have to in your Windows operating system, especially other ones, it again runs right off the USB on the computer or anything. Now it does have but I probably wouldn't do that. It might system that you're currently using. So don't but you can still just click try Ubuntu and you can see, there are some included programs just browse through the files, although than Windows than you might be used to, but And of course, because it's not Windows, you can any kinds of permissions stopping you from possible with Windows PE, but you definitely especially useful programs you might need to which can come in real handy if you have to something like that. And of course, there's the uncountable number of things really. Alright USB drive you have is a copy of the Windows 10 This is going to contain an entire copy of the not just boot and use a couple of tools that I'll need to on whatever computer, install an entire But of course, if you already have Windows it also has some tools that are helpful for you click repair your computer, and then go to a bunch of different tools you can see here such fix it automatically. You have the command prompt also access system restore points, which is really try. If you did something recently and it messed you did that. And also you can uninstall recent an update, you can try and undo those. There's image, which you probably don't have. That's like drive or something, and also you can boot to the So of course, this one's really useful to have available to you. And it's just kind of nice to Windows on some computer. That way you don't have every time. Finally, the fourth bootable USB drive. Now on the surface, this is going to look might be wondering, &quot;wait, what is the difference that I'll mention. So basically when you go to to do the same thing as one of those recovery When you boot into it, it's going to look really It just does not have the ability but it does have the ability to factory reset just fresh from the factory and when you got from just doing a regular clean install using the you create the recovery drive with Windows, it data and programs that came with that computer. sometimes it comes with LG specific software you know how sometimes it comes with you might call it bloatware, sometimes not. create a drive that recovers, not just the blank And it puts that on the recovery drive. So it it from when you bought it off the shelf, which clean install of windows. So to do this, when you called &quot;Recover from a drive&quot;. I say, you should, this is the option that does the same thing into Windows, you know the the &quot;reset PC&quot;, same there is one major caveat, which apparently you might not actually see this option, which if you use it on a certain type of system, SSD, which I do, and therefore I can't actually In fact, when I couldn't see at first, I which would have been weird, because that's kind I found this bug article or bug page. I don't describes this issue exactly, which is that this if you're booting from an NVMe. And it does I don't think it's supposed to be if you are booting from an NVMe SSD, the memory is just soldered onto the board. a lot of laptops have that. Note that So it's good to probably maybe test that then you'll just kind of be aware of that. Now not showing up, but both of my computers have so I'm assuming that's why. However, I do this recovery drive. There might be other Maybe in the future when they patch it, then it'll those other tools, just like on the installation now that you know about those four different boot one. And of course they're going to need four don't have any important data on them. And if you use that, copy it all off because you are going used for this particular use, each one. For the It's going to depend on how much data it needs to Next for the Windows installation drive, For the Ubuntu Live CD, it says that should be at be very big at all, only ~2 GB are more. So let's Now you're going to have to do this, for it you intend to use it on to recover, because of computer. So if you have multiple computers, then you're going to have to maybe make main computer. Anyway, open up the start menu run where it says, &quot;create a recovery drive&quot;. this is important, &quot;back up system files to point of having the recovery drive as opposed to is if you don't select this, then you're not going in the boot menu. Alright so after you click And I guess here, it's just kind of going to put onto it. And then it's going to much data it is. For mine, for example, it load it up. Then you have to select the flash and make sure it's blank, because everything on and then wait. And this is probably going took several hours and this could take longer if but just be prepared to kind of wait for awhile. to go. And that's the easiest one of the four Next up we have the Windows 10 Installation the ISO off of Microsoft's website and then So go to the &quot;Download Windows 10&quot; page in the description. And then go down below where and click download tool now. After it's all of time for it to prepare. And then when you go to And I would just keep all the defaults here, you know that you want a different edition of depending on your country or something. Just And then you select the USB drive and then make that it's blank, double check that. And then just add it all to the drive and then it should be Live USB. This one is going to take a little bit they don't have a simple, easy to download but it's not too hard to follow the instructions. you do is go to the Ubuntu &quot;Create a Bootable put that link in the description again. And then a program called Rufus, which is going to So download the Rufus program and then next Ubuntu Desktop ISO file. And again, I'll put you're going to see several different options. LTS stands for long-term service. It just necessarily needing to be updated as often. And have the Rufus tool and the ISO downloaded, just better laid out than what I would be able to from here though. You literally just make sure have. You just make sure you select the ISO file sure all of the settings and stuff is checked the that USB and be good to go. Finally, how to create I know, but it's actually a little bit easier even download page for the Hiren Boot CD. Again, link bit confusing. Actually you have to scroll all and then download that. It's not really clear that that is the ISO image that's going to be burned had for a Ubuntu. And then you're going to next it here, but again, I'll put the link in the tool it has linked called &quot;ISO2USB&quot; and then run so I'll just show you what to do. You simply Again, like everything, double check, go is the correct one, if it's all blank already. and then click process and it'll go through all the drives should be fully bootable testing these out and making sure they work out why your computer crashed and you're trying didn't do it right or something. And also to make don't know how to boot to a USB device already, I There's usually a different procedure, sometimes you press F10 while it's booting up. model. Make sure you know how to do that. So then you'll now have a good idea of possibly like running some of those tools, like the or if you need to copy files off of you'll Thanks again to Private Internet Access for go to that link in the description or right here if you guys want to keep watching, the next how you can figure out about how much time been written to it already, and the spec for right there. You can just click on. So thanks so