What's the best way to make amends with a some helicopters they really wanted for their war send in the tanks. But why tanks, and why now? The losing ground fast. As of October 2024, Russia has destroyed--nearly 70%. These high destruction rates Ukraine has also lost tanks, the difference lies like the T-62 and T-54/55, out of retirement to to hold their ground. Ukraine's forces have that are not only tougher but also designed to enemy. This advantage could be decisive--if Australia is stepping up. What exactly are they dive in. Australia has been a consistent backer aid to Ukraine from the Indo-Pacific region, after war began. However, unlike Japan, Australia's aid financial or humanitarian. Australia has given including the so-called cardboard drones made shells in partnership with France, six M777 105mm artillery shells, armored personnel infantry support vehicles. Now you can add 49 has been a user of the Abrams since 2006, when the United States. The acquisition replaced the forces since the middle of the 1970s. The Abrams US Army and Marine Corps. The M1A1 Abrams first until 1992. It boasted several upgrades over a 120mm gun that replaced the 105mm gun the tank The Abrams Integrated Management system was also upgrade took older units and reconditioned them Locating sensors to aid in target acquisition. thermal sight. Better communications equipment, Tracking, were also added. Depleted Uranium tank's defenses further, but the Australian Abrams quickly proved itself as a superior tank T-72 and T-80 tanks it encountered. The Abrams to the manned gunner rather than the slower better situational awareness. These factors meant a critical advantage. The results told in the tanks were destroyed in the Gulf War. In contrast, tanks. At the famous Battle of 73 Easting, only 50 Iraqi tanks. The Iraqi T-72 tanks were hit by even aware of what was happening. The American Battle of 73 Easting was just the opening tank confrontations of the 20th century. There mud. The retreating Iraqis had also set fire to there were flashes of tank guns in the smoke. This the Battle of Norfolk, better known among Gulf War Iraqis, the M1A1 Abrams was good at night fighting Despite the unfavorable conditions, coalition nearly 600 while losing only a few. Most of the as a result of mistaken friendly fire that came as ground operations in the Gulf War came to an That's what well-trained tank crews using superior itself under fire in very difficult conditions. isn't the top of the line model anymore. So why valuable pieces of equipment? After all, one of hesitant in providing more aid is a worry about you might think that Australia can more most NATO countries can. Unlike Poland, which Australia is an island nation. Poland must create increasingly aggressive historical adversary, is from an expansionist China. As a result, from prioritizing the War on Terror and shifting confrontation with China would entail hostilities the First Island Chain. Australia therefore needs and missiles first and foremost. Tanks would seem However, that assessment would be wrong. Australia the contrary, tanks could prove vital in quickly and defending them from landings, just as they had China would be comparatively limited, Australia is 2021, Canberra requested the purchase of 160 M1A1 SEPv3 tanks, along with other types of vehicles. tanks from the United States in a deal worth than adequate to replace the earlier fleet of M1A1 should do with its older models that were reaching desired these tanks. It first requested a like many other cases in this war, the request hesitated because of the perceived high Abrams tanks are not easy to transport because of to Ukraine directly but had to come by way of the that delivering the retiring M1A1 Abrams tanks challenges. Later in the year, Australia further burying - helicopters that it had sent a formal MRH-90 Taipan fleet. The Taipan entered service forces between 2022 and 2023. The Taipan is a seats and room for up to 12 stretchers. It can be search-and-rescue, medical evacuations, and the designed to could carry out missions in rough both used it. The Taipan supposedly had built-in prevent the Taipan from being troubled in recent forced into an emergency landing. All crew members Unfortunately, that was not the case four months an exercise. It and all four of its crew members retired the aircraft. All 47 helicopters were donated to Ukraine as requested. The mainframes Canberra thought the Taipan fleet would bring Nevertheless, the move was not only controversial They might not have had the same safety issues, Australian policymakers worried that the so-called same fate. Simon Birmingham, the Leader of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, took the opportunity and issue a warning: "Labor's decision to bury baffled many and must not be repeated with the seemed to have gotten the message. In August, Marles said that the government was exploring with the Ukrainian government. Other sources in centered on how the Australian government the diplomatic dance to donate the tanks began to make the donation. However, it could not make from the United States, the origin country for United States as the point of origin could refuse in Arms regulations. Fortunately for Ukraine, the Abrams tanks, so it would have looked baffling didn't take long for the United States gave the October 16th, Canberra announced that it would to Ukraine in a deal worth $245 million. The move in Brussels, which Australia's Defense Industry with his Ukrainian counterpart on the margins Abrams tanks were supposedly mothballed, they were Leahy, who served as Australia's Chief of the Army introduction of these tanks into service, said they are a very competent tank, they should be and the Ukrainians are very keen to get them. there... I certainly wouldn't want to see the a defense consultant in Ukraine who assisted with was optimistic that the tanks would arrive in condition. The Ukrainians already having M1A1 a good logistics chain and pre-existing training. hearty sigh of relief. The United States only sent any more, despite having thousands of the destruction of at least eight of these tanks. estimated that Ukraine likely only had a maximum is worth more than one of its Russian opponent, was why Australia's decision to donate most, if for retirement meant so much to the Ukrainian might have originally slated these tanks for find a way to modernize them anyway. Ukraine can still be adapted to changing realities. The modern technology will put on armies in general and counter-drone technologies. Drones have been Ukraine than other tanks have. Unlike the Battle been rare in Ukraine. Small Ukrainian drones tank-killing weapons in this war. Russia has been Ukraine started to find T-72 tanks that looked they found that these jammers were unlikely the tank and bad construction. But Ukraine saw the to adapt its tanks to counter Russian drones, by that country's elite 47th Mechanized Brigade. straight and was recently rotated off the front didn't mean the work stopped. The Brigade's sole surviving tanks for the demands they had seen at curious video. The video featured an M1A1 Abrams (ERA) on its sides. However, in modern armored to drones and smarter anti-tank missiles. So the fashion of wearing ERA manufactured in Ukraine. The infamous cope cage, maybe? Not entirely, attached to the cage. The ERA on the turret is such as RPGs or more sophisticated anti-tank Boasting a 10-pound warhead, this weapon is reactive armor and can supposedly penetrate is responsible for the destruction of several loss of a British Challenger II tank outside when a Kornet hit one of Ukraine's Swedish-made impact destroyed the tank's ammunition rack, but all of them survived their vehicle's destruction. their turrets to give them a better chance of Meanwhile, the drone jammers are designed to enemy drones with their human operators. If to their operators or be forced to the ground. set the drone's target as its designated home moving item like a tank. The incoming M1A1 Abrams from the start. If all works as intended, these batch of M1A1 tanks the Ukrainians got from the Australian Abrams tanks to Ukraine was finalized, earlier controversy about the buried helicopters. good way to bury the hatchet instead. Ukraine's was full of praise for the move, calling the new the M1A1's armor and missiles, saying that Ukrainian forces on defensive lines. However, internationally-recognized territory, the brass Abrams tanks. The M1A1's success in the Gulf War is still using the same tanks that proved so ago. However, Ukraine needs more of these tanks With thousands in storage in the United States, just Australia's tanks. They wanted to open the Ukrainian officials claimed that the deal with that the Australians were set to replace anyway. United States. Undoubtedly, Kyiv is hoping that older tank arsenal as Canberra finally decided to its overall tank fleet is critical for Ukraine to attrition against Russia. For all its problems, a high enough rate to offset its losses in tanks. The only way to be sure of victory in which the M1A1 Abrams has more than proven itself broader progress in this area and inducing further the biggest contribution the Australian donation which the United States agreed to the transfer the Ukrainians. What impact will Australia's to Ukraine have on the ground against Russia and the United States to send more tanks, too? Don't sure to hit the like button and subscribe for Now go check out Australia Just Dealt Russia a