(gentle dramatic music) (dramatic music) (thunder rumbling) - [Sveneld] I close my eyes and see the winter forest. The cold and white snow What happened here shattered the foundation of all our lives. (bird squawking) (bull growling) (bird squawking) (bull snorting) (horse hooves thundering) (suspenseful music) (men yelling) (horses braying) (bull wailing) (horn bellowing) - He'll come from over there. - Hmm, I didn't hear anything. - [Sveneld] I've always Of the three brothers, why did I choose Oleg. He was fiery like his father just not as bright. (tense music) (horses braying) (bull wailing) - Strike it! (bull wailing) - [Man] Follow me. - [Man] Drive it straight! - [Sveneld] We weren't - [Soldier] Let's go after - [Sveneld] There were (suspenseful music) (men yelling) (bull wailing) (bull wailing) (horses braying) (men yelling) (Oleg grunting) (yells loudly) - [Commander] Take it. (suspenseful music) (bull snorting) (blades clanking) - What were you thinking? - [Man] Creature, he slugged him! (bull wailing) (men groaning) - [Soldier] What are you doing? - We're your brothers, man. This is our hunt and our trophy. - Here you are. - So which brother? I have two. - [Commander] Huh? - The youngest, Vladimir? - Uh-huh. We're from Kiev. - Stop, stop enough. He serves Yaropolk. - We can share it. We're not greedy. - Share? (bird squawking) Share! Yaroplok has the best men and the best city, and it's still not enough for him. (suspenseful music) (men grunting) - [Soldier] Go! (horses braying) - Go on stop him! Don't just stand there! Hiya! - [Sveneld] Hiya. (suspenseful music) - [Oleg] Halt. Yaropolk. (dramatic music) - Settle it with your brother. We'll pay him the blood money for the dead man. - You killed my man! What should I do to you now? - It was a gift, a wedding gift for my bride. Your man came in willing - I was always preparing a gift for your wedding. Come and see it. - You weren't invited. Let's go to Polotsk. My bride is waiting. Hiya, it's easier to (men yelping) (dogs barking) - After them. - Hiya! (men yelling) (suspenseful music) - Go, close the vault! More of the strangers are headed this way. - I can see for myself. Hurry! (men yelling) (horses braying) Hurry up! It's their war! Close the doors! (people yelling) - Open up! (whip smacking) (ominous music echoing) (Oleg grunting) (dogs barking distantly) - [Sveneld] Spilled So, Yaropolk decided to Here in the house of his everyone knows Yaropolk is but his brother's blood lay on him. They seized on this. Yaropolk, answer me. Was it me he was fleeing from? Did I throw him onto the stakes? - Give me that. - [Sveneld] Your people were chasing us! - You served my father. He's dead; yet, you live. You served my brother; yet, you live. Maybe I'm only alive now because you haven't come to serve me. That's your reward. Execute Sveneld. He didn't keep my brother safe. - If you wish, we'll go outside the gates or fulfill the law here. - So that is your last word on this? Let go. (animal wailing) - [Executioner] Ready? - Wait, wait. Help me with my hair. I don't want his father with soiled hair. - Tell my father I buried his god of war. - Tell him yourself. (men yelling) You can't behead someone twice? - Stop! The law says you can't repeat a beheading. He speaks the truth. - Get back. Varyazhko, I said get back! - Get back! - Let him go. He's speaking to us the truth. - [Executioner] You - Listen, Yaropolk, you're You know the law. They'll take vengeance on you by the law. Your younger brother Hiya! Hiya! (dramatic music) (water swooshing) (gentle music) (birds squawking) - [Viking] Move aside. - This is Polotsk. (dog barking) - They're matchmakers - I am not Yaropolk's foe. - Nor his friend. You wanted the two why you saved me? - It's not my war. - It is now. - [Rogovold] So that's - Father, who's the suitor? - My lady. Vladimir. - Don't rush it. The Prince of the House of Rurik. - Vladimir, I know. Is it true you feared and fled to the North? You didn't avenge Oleg's death? - I only went for the Vikings. - Uh-huh, what'd you bring them here for? You won't find your brother here. - I came to see you. I want to bring you happiness. (chuckles gently) And to make you the lady of our house. - Give her this, go on it's the custom. (rooster squawking) (men chuckling) - Where's the joy for me - It would be fun. Or are you afraid? Take your people with you. Do we have an agreement? - She probably doesn't like chickens. (men laughing) (gentle music) - You came for warriors. - I came for you not warriors. - You came to see my father not me. - Can we talk about this? - Wait, we've talked. I don't want you or your rooster. - [Vladimir] You think you - [Rogneda] I know all about you. - Silence. - You wanna hear? - Should I tell you? - [Rogovold] Don't you dare! - You're the son of a slave. I won't marry you because from the son of a slave. - That's enough. - Is he not a prince? - Of course, he is. - Your brother was a real prince. I might have listened to him, but not you. (suspenseful music) (vikings cheering) - Wait, are you sure? - I loved my mother. - Very well. (vikings yelping) (dog barking distantly) - Keep my son away from here. - [Sveneld] It was his first battle. To his brothers, he wasn't a prince, but the son of a The law gave him the right to go to war on his elder brother, Prince Yaropolk, and thus, become his equal. We need more smoke in For this reason, Vladimir with the Prince of Polotsk, but now we were fighting him. Only a coward wouldn't seek revenge for being called a slave. - It's time to get the Berserker ready. I'll go with the Viking. Trust me, now we attempt the old gates. (suspenseful music swelling) (men yelling) - No, the gate! Hold the line! - Here you go. Drink it. Let the sacred fury and the strength of the beast enter you through this chalice. Now you must take revenge on them. Kill them all. Kill them all! (men yelling) Kill them all. Kill them all. Kill them all. You weren't invited to Give it to him. But you can become one of us. First, you must drink it. (dramatic music) May you be changed forever. Through the gates! (men yelling) (Vladimir choking) (men's voices echoing) (men yelling faintly) (yells loudly) (Rogneda panting) (pants heavily) (Berserker grunting) (men grunting) (weapons clanking) (arrows whizzing) (deep resounding dramatic tone) - Hey, Vladimir! Vladimir! (blood splashing) Vladimir! Let's see what's to be found in here. (deep resounding dramatic tone) (glass shattering) What do we have here? (Sveneld chuckling) She's changed her mind. She wants to take off your boots. - No! (metal clanking) (rhythmic thudding) - [Man] He's here for you. Your new husband. (father and mother gasping) (gentle music) (dramatic music) (woman sobbing) (somber music) (rats squealing) (chuckles gently) (Vladimir and Rogneda grunting) - [Rogneda] It's okay. It's okay. Stay with me. (boy sobbing) - [Sveneld] Ah, the little brother's here. Where were you hiding? - Huh? Stay there hold still! - Let her go. - She'll go with me. She'll take revenge. - And him too. - Take a boy off to war. - Nah, there'll be no war. I want them in peace. - Get out of here. What peace? - My brother and I will be equals. Yaropolk will pay for Oleg's death: Blood money to me and my men. - Have you forgotten that People don't change. - We're going to Kiev in peace. You'll go with me. You'll be my wife. I will love you. (gentle music) (vikings yelping) - [Man] We're almost there. (Sveneld cheering) - [Man] We're almost there. - Everybody! (vikings yelping) (ominous music) - Loban, go to the magian. - [Loban] Cover me. (ominous music) - Hey! I am the brother of Prince Yaropolk. Bring me Yaropolk I want to talk to him. - [Sveneld] Let's go. (ominous music) - Where is everyone? Why don't you speak? - [Woman] The people have left. (vikings yelling distantly) (rooster squawking) - Come have a look. (dramatic music) This land's taken. Do you wanna know why people don't change? They don't want to. (suspenseful music) Yaropolk made camp one He gathered a large force Vladimir sent his men and offered to meet. Yaropolk answered that a Kiev became a trap. But fortune smiled on us. - What this, a toy? - Where did you find you? - I found it here, a toy ship. - They thought their (men cheering) Good sword, I saw Yaropolk's banner. I thought it was him, but - [Vladimir] Who are you? - I am your brother's wife. - [Vladimir] My brother? - [Viking] Did you know about her? - Why are you here? Your husband sent you. - Yaropolk sent me home back to Korsun for the war. Father Anastas gave me a - To Korsun? - Everyone heard about Polotsk. - Uh-huh. Hmm. Is that right? Why did my brother let her go with you? - With me. We were bringing him to Glina. He wants to dip the people in water there. (vikings chuckling) - Send this warrior to my brother. - Look at me. We need to talk. Let's go. What are you waiting for? Let's go. Show me your hand. (dramatic music) Ooh. (chuckling) Sit down. - Don't look for the coffers here. Yaropolk took 'em with him. - What for? - He's gathering warriors. - And why do you think I - 'Cause I'll bring Yaropolk here. - Would Yaropolk agree to that? - You have Irina, and she's carrying his child. (suspenseful music) - Come on that's enough! Varyazhko, that's enough. - [Varyazhko] Ask him where your wife is? - Is she alive? - Yes, she's alive. - How much does he want for her? - Nothing. He's waiting for you to talk about peace. - You can't go there alone. You must go with an army. Position it in front of the city, and then you can talk. - [Yaropolk] Where did you get that? - Vladimir sent it to you. - They'll see the army, They have Irina. (gentle music) - Then we will make an agreement. (soldiers yelling) (birds chirping) - Show 'em it's done. - Let's see what you got. For the king, yeah! Yeah! - [Man] Well done. (men chuckling) (sheep bellowing) (rooster squawking) - Tell me why didn't you - You didn't return. - Vladimir! Come! He's arrived. (dogs barking) (dramatic music) - [Yaropolk] Where is my wife? - Irina, your husband wants you. (chuckles gently) - [Yaropolk] Are you alright? - Hmm-mm. - Wait here. Where's my brother? - Waiting for you. (ominous music) - Stand guard. - I'll go with you. - Here. Did you have to dig up my whole yard? Did you lose something? - I've already found it. - [Yaropolk] You come with me. - Very well. (birds cooing) - Where did you find it? - That's for me to know. - I thought Oleg stole it. - He did. Grandma took it. She buried it in the yard, and I found it. - Grandma. What are we going to do? - We'll talk. (vikings chatting loudly) (vikings yelling) (vikings laughing) (Yaropolk gasping) No. (somber music) (Vladimir sobbing) (door creaking) - [Varyazhko] What happened, where is he? (swords clanking) - Calm down, calm down. - Halt! - Rejoice, Prince Yaropolk Rejoice! - [Man] Oh, no. - Get out of here. Let go. Let me through. Leave him let me through. - You're done here. Tell your men to go home. The war is over. (rhythmic thumping) - Where's Vladimir? - Vladimir? Vladimir is now the Grand Prince. (dramatic music) - He's just a half-breed, the son of a slave woman! People like him shouldn't live! Fyodor. Fyodor! Promise me you'll protect Irina, (sighing) if she's still alive. - Take care. - We never would've gone to Kiev. Vladimir promised it would be So is it us against all of them? - He's right there's too many. - If they're many, does it mean they're not traitors? (dramatic music) Let's vow with our blood that we'll take revenge on Vladimir. I'm dying for the previous life with only the half-breed's blood. Have mercy on their souls. - [Group] I am dying and only the half-breed's (birds chirping) - [Sveneld] Vladimir ended the war, and the people accepted Yaropolk's death. But they didn't accept Vladimir. He remained a half-breed, To prevail, everyone had to believe that Vladimir had become and only his father had been In the city this night, they were expecting the dead prince to come to him to get revenge. (gentle music) (crickets chirping) (dog whimpering) (door creaking) (ominous music) (floorboards creaking) (spirit shrieking) (crickets chirping) - [Man] Who's there? Look over there Yaropolk. - [Woman] The dead man's (bird chirping) (dog growling) (animal shrieking) (animal bellowing distantly) (hatchet clanking) (dramatic music) (Irina gasping) - Go on! Move your hands. You were trying to raise him with this. - He's dead now. - You're lying. You were reading. - Yes, I was. And soon he will rise. Don't you know all of the dead will rise, and they will walk? - So, he will rise soon. He's just sleeping. (gentle music) No need to fear. I'll raise his son like my own. You can believe me. I have my father's strength. (crowd wailing) - [Sveneld] The old gods and Vladimir threw them down the hill. He dug up his father's so that everyone could was as great a prince as his father. (women wailing) But the god of Svyatoslav and that's why it was buried when the old prince was killed. (crowd gasping) - I'm alive. (ominous music) - He is hungry he wants to eat. - I gave Yaropolk to my father's god. (crowd gasping) - He needs living blood, living flesh. (ominous music) Answer: Are you truly worthy (women wailing) - We make the sacrifice. (resounding drum music) Believe with me! - [Fyodor] Let's get out of here. (dramatic music) - His god has won fortune in glory. He will protect us all. Believe with me! (birds squawking) - We'll kill the half-breed, put Irina on the throne, and we'll be nearby. (horses braying) (Pechenegs yelling) The Pechenegs I thought - [Kagan] Hiya. (Pechenegs yelling) (dramatic music) - I need your Kagan! Listen! Yaropolk was killed. I have his coffers. You'll be rich, but in return you'll help me kill the Russian prince. (dramatic music) (Pechenegs yelling) Remember the rotten - I remember. - Wait for me there. - [Soldier] Very well. (Pechenegs yelping) (rooster squawking) - [Man] Hey! - [Man] Ready? Up. Just a little bit more, almost there. (people screaming) - [Man] Watch out! - The Pechenegs go Pechenegs! Whoa, whoa! - [Man] Run! (Pechenegs yelping) (suspenseful music) (horse braying) (arrows whizzing) (dramatic music) (arrows whizzing) - [Soldier] What are - Hiya! (man grunting) (people screaming) - [Man] Come On. (horse braying) - [Man] Come on. - [Man] Come on. (soldiers groaning) (metal clanking) - [Irina] Don't do it, don't! - Move your people away! You half whit, you think - No! Stop! - Want me to cut her open? I'll throw her down right now. It'll ripen in the sun. - Get back. Get back. Get out order them back! - [Irina] Please help! - [Sveneld] I'll tear your arms off! - [Vladimir] Enough. - Give me Irina. - [Vladimir] That's enough stop it. - Let her go and I'll leave right away, and you will save the city. If you don't believe me, I have his coffers. I'll pay them, and they'll No one else will die. Give me Irina now! Vladimir! - I gave you your life. What did you do with it? - If you change your mind, you know where to find me. The new prince chose war. - Let me go. I beg you let me go. Please save me and the city. - Let her go. Give us hope. - I'll protect you. You can believe me. (sheep bleating) Why are you here? The enemy is outside. - Anyone who doesn't keep his We don't fight for free. So hurry up and pay us. - They say he turns into a real-- (Berserker yelling) (Berserker chuckling) - Well, I'm afraid that it's not enough. Look at that, Roman gold. I like it. What do you think? - I thought you were supposed You're not. You're nothing but greedy tradesmen. - Huh, you owe us a lot more than this. Give them the Berserker. - The Berserker? Wait, hey! Wait! (dramatic music) For your gold we'll give But he's the best one. - [Sveneld] The Pechenegs And Varyazhko gathered the under Kiev's walls. Then, Vladimir decided to send warriors beyond the gates to lure their calvary towards the wall. Everyone knew they wouldn't come back. So they went of their own will. - [Man] Line up that way. - [Vladimir] Get in line. When you have the signal, - I understand. - [Sveneld] Fyodor, Yaropolk's former military chief took charge. He was of another faith from us, but a real warrior. - God save and preserve - Hmm. - You'll give this to Ian, my son. - Be successful. - Everything is in the hands - You're a son of God? - A slave of God but of no one else. - Well, may he offer you protection. - Come on let's go quickly now. Let's move. Let's move. - He's coming. - [Soldier] Move it, now clear. - [Soldier] Clear the way. (battle horn blaring) (Pechenegs yelling) (arrows thudding) (camel grunting) - Fyodor! - [Fyodor] Let's go! (soldiers shouting) - Push it. (dramatic music) Fyodor! - Move everyone! (men grunting) All together charge! (dramatic music) Give me a circle. All of you in a circle. Interlock shields. Big circle lock. Shields closer together. Shields closer. - The door open it! (Berserker yelling) - Be still! Shields closer. (dramatic music) - Give the signal! Prepare the wheels quickly! (horn blaring) - Stand your ground! - Pass the wheel hurry! Let's go! - [Man] Bring the wheel up this way. - Signal. We retreat to the wall. To the wall onto the gates. (Pechenegs yelling) (horses braying) (Pechenegs yelling) (suspenseful music) - Fyodor! Fire, fire! Fire! Give it here. - If we set it afire, we could burn too. - I dreamt of my mother. So we won't die today. I'll do it. (Pechenegs yelping) Set them all on fire now! Send them over the top! (suspenseful music) (horses braying) (yells loudly) Everyone fire! Yeah! (fire crackling) (people yelling distantly) Water. Water onto the wall quick! - [Man] Hurry, get those - Bring the water! We need that water here right away! Go! - [Woman] We'll all burn to death. - God have mercy. (thunder roaring) (gentle music) (water splashing) (thunder rumbling) (birds chirping) - My father's god helped us. You must give thanks that you're alive. The enemy is not defeated. The warriors will stay - Do you know how to start a fire? - Of course. But my father told me to wait at home. - Did you know that god sent the rain. Now you can save us. (dramatic drum music) (magian chanting faintly) - I see my father. - [Group] I see my father. - [Woman] I see my mother. - [Group] I see my mother. - [Woman] And now I see my master. - [Group] And now I see my master. - [Woman] He's sits in a garden. It's fair and green. - [Group] He sits in a garden. It's fair and green. - [Woman] And he waits for me. - [Group] And he waits for me. - [Woman] And he waits for me. - [Group] And he waits for me. - [Boy] Father, I'll save them all. (dramatic music) - Let's go home. Come on. I could save them all. - You saved them. Let's go home and come back. What is this? - The boy's chosen. He will save us. - Where's your husband now? Vladimir! Make way. - But father! I want my father! Father! Father! - Come here. I said make way! (people yelling) Now. - Take care of him. (men yelling distantly) They're celebrating. Do you hear it? Shouldn't you be with them? - Fear not. They believe my father's (suspenseful music) - Vladimir! Vladimir! (people yelling) - Huh, look at. - [Viking] They'll kill him. - No, he's a real warrior. Shall we bet for your knife? - Yeah, if he survives - Get down. - Hey, over here. - Who do you bow to? Those aren't gods. Tomorrow they will rot. - Take down the tower! - Cut down the pillars. - [Man] We must have his blood. Or we're going to have it another way. - [Man] Cut it down. Give it to us. (men grunting) - Vladimir. - Prince. Over here. - Go. - [Man] He sits in the garden. It's fair and it's free. He sits in the garden. It's fair and it's free. - Lord, have mercy. - [Ian] Father. - What is it, boy? - Will we die? - I said (hammer banging) (wood creaking) there's no death. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the - I don't wanna die, father. he is my refuge and my fortress. My God in him will I trust. Surely, he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowl - [Fyodor] And from - [Vladimir] Stop, stop. - He shall cover thee with his feathers. And under his wing shalt thou trust. He truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid - Stop! - Not for the arrow thou fleeth by day. Nor for the pestilence Hold me my son. Lord, have mercy. (people screaming) (dramatic music) (Vladimir panting) - Fyodor! - [Fyodor] I win. - No. No. (Vladimir panting) (somber music) (sobbing gently) (birds chirping) - Unless we give the how can they know we love them. The sacrifice is made. The gods will save us. (people gasping) (metal clanking) (gentle music) (birds chirping) He warned you. Like the Vikings you don't belong here. You're evil. - You will meet him on the I know you will. There's no death. - Yes, there is. They mustn't see you this way. - [Irina] Let me go. Please. Please. (people wailing) (dramatic music) - [Sveneld] The god of our forefathers did not accept our sacrifice. The Pechenegs didn't leave. Everyone saw we couldn't save the city. So Vladimir took the risk and grabbed fortune by the throat. He agreed to meet Varyazhko. - Helmets. - Whenever it's raining again remember me. What's this? Anna. - What? (gentle music) - Anna. A Greek name. Not one of yours. - [Vladimir] How did you know it was Anna? - Here are the Greek letters. Look, A-N-N-A. Do you know what it means? - Mm. Anna. - It means God's grace. They gave me this name in the convent. - What is God's grace? - There's a woman's love, God's grace is a gift of love from God. - A gift from God, which god is that? - There's only one. And he loves you. And he can save you. Remember that. - Take it with you, so you'll remember me. (dog growling) (somber music) - Go on. (dog barking) Vladimir. (dramatic music) Now don't let them go! (horse braying) (somber music) - [Sveneld] Let's run! (suspenseful music) - Help! Let's get out of here! (men whistling) - [Sveneld] This way. - [Man] Come now, come to me! - Jump! (tense music) (wood creaking) - Half-breed. I know you're here. Did you really get scared? Answer me! (wood creaking) (bird squawking) (suspenseful music) (dramatic music) (battle horn blaring) (people yelling) (man speaking in foreign language on ship) Wait! Wait! - We don't fight with the Romans. You should know that. - Stop! Come back. We had a deal. Kargan! (man speaking in foreign language on ship) - [Sveneld] Where's Rogneda? - She's at the sacred ground. - What are you thinking? While the Roman envoys are here, the Pechenegs will stay away. The Roman Emperor is the strongest. Take whatever they give, You'll always be strange to them like a bunch of rabble. - Yeah. The Pechenegs didn't touch my brother because he had an - An agreement. They hired your father. And when he disobeyed them, they killed him at the (gentle music) - We can't be afraid, not even of the Pechenegs. Tomorrow is just another day. I need the strength of Rome. (man speaking in foreign language) - [Loban] Look at this, beautiful. Oh, that gold, the cloth. (man speaking in foreign language) - It's Emperor Basil, The Porphyrogenitus and his sister Anna with his co-ruler Constantine. - Anna. God's gift. A gift of from. (man speaking in foreign language) - The Emperor offers all of you glory if you besiege Korsun. There is a rebellion in the empire. The city of Korsun is on - Let me see that. (tiger growling) (man speaking in foreign language) - [Anastas] The Emperor's reward The ambassador wishes to - I'll help you but not for gold. (man speaking in foreign language) - [Anastas] What does the Archon mean? What does he want? - God's gift. (man speaking in foreign language) - [Anastas] You said God's gift. - Anna. - [Anastas] It's impossible. You must forget about her. (man speaking in foreign language) The Archon cannot receive They even refused the German Emperor. (man speaking in foreign language) The Archon can ask the Emperor Tell me what you want. (dramatic music) - I want her as my wife. (Rogneda gasping heavily) (thunder roaring) - You kept your word. Roman gold is good for morale. The Vikings are with you now. And we'll all go to the wall. (chicken clucking) (dog barking) - Will you go with everyone? - Go where? - To the sacred ground? We need to ask the god's The Romans are leaving. - I have made all my sacrifices. (dramatic music) - All? (rhythmic drum music beating softly) (people chanting softly) (ominous music) (metal clanking) (Rogneda gasping) - [Rogneda] No! (Rogneda gasping) - Get dressed. (dog howling) - I would've given up my life, too and stayed with you to the end, you know. You'll have a son. Yes. Uh-huh. - So you wanted to kill all of us. (Rogneda sobbing) - You're going back to Polotsk. - What gift do you need from which god? (sobbing heavily) (dramatic music) (crow squawking) (dog barking) (dog howling) - [Sveneld] All night the and you could hear someone (man yelling) Everyone was preparing for the worst. The Romans agreed to give Vladimir the Emperor's sister, Anna, since they knew we couldn't And trying to take Korsun was madness. But that morning it didn't matter. And everyone that only of death hidden in the fog. Halt. Hey! So, Putyata, where are the Pechenegs? - The Romans said they and the Pechenegs don't fight Romans. They're holding the Kagan's hostage, so the Pechenegs keep to the deal. - Is Irina alive? - Ugh, she's alive. Varyazhko took her away to Korsun. - Gather our men. Send messengers to all the cities. I need God's gift. (dramatic music) - [Man] Get up, get up. - What will happen to us now? (woman wailing) - We're going to take Korsun. (men cheering) (dramatic music) (birds chirping) (bell tolling) (dramatic music) (horn blaring) (soldiers shouting) - [Commander] Against the gate! (men singing in foreign language) - [Sveneld] Make way, make way. - [Emperor] Irina. (speaking in foreign language) - I'm Vladimir. I'm a friend of your Emperor. (speaking in foreign language) I swear by the memory of I won't leave here until I take your city. (men cheering) (speaking in foreign language) And if any of you people you'll open the gates of the city now. Will you open them? Or you? Or maybe even you can do it? I swear on the memory of my forefathers, I will not kill anyone. You have my word you'll be safe. Save yourself and the city. (somber music) But I will not warn you again. I gave them their last chance. (Vladimir yelling) (soldiers shouting) (somber music) (crickets chirping) (dramatic music) - Tie the bracelet onto the map, so he knows who it's from. (baby cooing) Hush now. Hush. Hush. Quiet now, it's okay. (dog barking) (loud thudding) Take a look. (dramatic music) (birds chirping) - Wait. Did you believe him? She told me everything about the hill from where the water I'm curious if everyone or is it just you? (bell tolling) - I myself blessed it. - And where is it? (footsteps approaching) - [Anastas] It's up on the hill. - So you drew him the map and sent it? - Father, may I speak to you? - Hmm-mm. Irina. This happens everywhere. (grunting heavily) (bangs loudly) Why? Why? He is a slave! A half-breed! He is not a prince! (grunts heavily) - Why did you tell him? - Vladimir. - Will have no mercy on him. - He'll cut off the pipe and You betrayed us all! (baby crying) Have you been with him? Answer me! (loud thudding) (baby wailing) - I'll get him. Take my confession. I sinned. Forgive me. You sheltered us and I not for the city but for him. (dramatic music) - Look at me! Swear, when the killer comes here, you will do everything so that he won't find you. Swear! (baby wailing loudly) Swear it or I'll kill the child! You will leave the city Swear it, or I'll kill the child! Swear it! - [Irina] No. (somber music) (baby wailing) - You have put out the light in my heart. - [Vladimir] I see two - [Loban] I believe the city is that way. - [Sveneld] Everyone would not capture the city. The warriors started heading home. To stop them, Vladimir ordered their ships to be dragged up the hill. Those who fled by the They stood at our backs. The water pipe was Vladimir's only hope. - Greetings, Prince. I came to help you. I'm the first of the Vikings. - [Vladimir] Where are the rest? - They are asleep. They (gulping). They mixed wine and beer. Have you been to the Roman cities? (horse braying) There are places where even further from the city than here. Have you heard of this? - Uh-uh. (horses braying) (suspenseful music) - Sveneld. Is that you? Wherever I see you, you're digging holes. - But it's not for myself. It's only so I have somewhere (chuckles cynically) - Half-breed. Look. This is for you. I barely persuaded the Pechenegs. They just want today slaughter you. They say you're a fool: A woman told him and he believed it. - Don't stand there. Drag over the shields and spears quickly. (men whistling) (thunder rumbling) - Come on, don't let (thunder rumbling) (dramatic music) - Ships. - Ships. the ships on them. Follow me. - Hey, half-breed. Where are you rushing off to? We'll tell the Romans your - This way, quick. Knock away the supports. That ship quick. (men cheering) Go that way! (men shouting) Push! Push! - [Sveneld] Where are those ships? (soldiers groaning) - [Hovding] You look like (vikings chuckling) - This way hurry! - Come on! - Vikings always arrive on time. Push. (men grunting) - [Loban] Push. (soldiers grunting) (swords clanking) (yells loudly) - Come on help us. - [Man] Take it away! Take it away! Stop! (swords clanking) (dramatic music) (yells loudly) (horse braying) (pants heavily) (gentle music) - Vladimir. - That's enough, brother. Let's go home. - Where is my home now? (yells loudly) (tense music) Look, old man. He was born a slave, and thinks he'll save himself like one. (gentle music) - So what will it be, huh? If you tell us, you'll die quickly without torment. - Ask Anastas. - Uh-huh. - [Sveneld] Sure, I'll ask. - And the half-breed thought - She won't tell. - You betrayed her. You gave her to me. You brought her yourself. - Where is she? - She swore by her gods - Where is she? - And where is your wife? Did you strangle her or throw her out? You came here for a new woman after all. Your brother Yaropolk loved you. He told me himself, and you slaughtered him. They didn't do it, you did. Who will avenge it. Only you are left. They are all dead. I see my master. I see my master. Go on. Go on. - Over here. - [Man] We found it. The pipe is here, it's here. - The pipe. - [Sveneld] Yeah. - Go on. - You don't see anything. - It's here! - Go on. Do it. Go on. - I didn't kill my brother! (men cheering) Nor will I kill you. (men laughing) (sobbing heavily) (somber music) (men cheering) (bells tolling) (people chatting) (dramatic music) (men cheering) And Anastas? (bell tolling) (dramatic music) - Don't come in here with weapons. - [Vladimir] Is it yours? - Hmm-mm. - Where is Irina? - She left two days ago to where I don't know. - You're lying. - You can't lie not in here. Why do you need her? You're a friend of the Emperor. They'll give you his sister Anna. - Yes, they will. Do they go in the water here? - Yes. They go here. But you first need to talk with me. - Talk? Hmm. - Tell me every bad thing That's the rule here. You can always come back later when you're ready for it. - Let's do it now I'm ready. What should I say? - Whatever you want. - My bad things: I stole a toy from my brother. - And then? - And then I killed him. - Because of the toy? - Uh-uh. - You killed him? - Yes. - Is that all? - No. I took my wife by force and her mother watched and her father. Then I killed her mother. After that, her father. - [Anastas] You killed them yourself? - Yes. (gasping heavily) I murdered them all. Their best man, and her son who was this high. (gasping heavily) - [Anastas] Was it your fault? - [Vladimir] Who else? Who else could it be? (sobbing heavily) - Wait. Hold on. Water. Do you have any? Wait! Wait! (dramatic music) It's clean. This is you at the start of life. This is you stealing a This is you killing your brother. This is you killing your wife's father, then killing your wife's mother, then that warrior who died, then his son. Now this is you. Always know that God loves you. He can purify you with his fire. This is drinkable now. - Hmm-mm. - Hmm-mm. - Yes, it is. Only it stinks. (bright gentle music) - See him, huh? When you're ready to go into the church, say the word and I'll be near. Our men will go too. - Go where? - The church. We'll all go in there. We'll say we want to just like our prince. What? (men chuckling) - I thought it would be without you. - How could it be without me? What would I do without you? You know, I would've gone myself. But they won't let me through. They won't let me get close. - Won't let you where? - To the Emperor. Only you can talk to him. People say he's very nimble. If you strike like this. You deflected it, so will he. You need to strike like this. The main thing is not to worry. I'll sew on a loop for you myself. You'll go up to him and smile, and say I want you to know And then when he least expects it, you strike precisely and that's it. No more Basileus. You got it. Avenge your father? - No. - But why? - I won't be a murderer anymore. - Aren't you your father's son. - There's no death. You will rise again. - Hmm. - Hmm. - And you believe that? - Hmm. But for me to believe it I have to see it. - Have to see what? - Why don't you let me kill you? When you're resurrected, then I'll believe it. Well, as you say there's no death. You'll rise again. - [Vladimir] Wait. - Go on, go on there's no death, right! There's no death! I believed in you, and you betrayed me! You're a slave, and you'll Death exists and you know it! I won't die lying in my bed! (dramatic music) That's right die like a warrior! - No, I won't take revenge on you. I'll forgive you. - Who are you trying to People don't change. Why would they? Let's go. Come on then! - You need to see it to believe it. - See what? - I'm ready. Go on. - Pick up your sword! Die like a warrior not like a mere slave! - I'm a slave of God but no one else. (gentle music) - [Sveneld] The sound of the But when I close my eyes, and the cold and white Why didn't I kill him? He's become part of me in this life, and I won't have another. (dramatic music) - Come in, come. Everyone come. Come and be cleansed. Give your names. Baptized servants of God. (water splashing) (birds chirping) (bright upbeat music) (gentle music) (lively music) (dramatic music) (lively music)