When Philips and Sony first they hoped to sell around 10 million In the first 18 months, EMI, the famous British Okay. So, Philips and Sony quickly revised Actual worldwide sales in 1985 three years after, they sold By 2007, over 200 billion CDs have into the world like nothing ever before - a Nobody expected it to be as popular we look at how the CD became a world standard. ## Beginnings Going into the 1970s, the dominant sound LPs are an analog sound format invented fascinating technological history, which we Basically speaking, they are a capturing sound data with grooves it spins around over a needle at Same as Bolivia. Today, the vinyl LP is enjoying a bit of half a century ago, the music industry felt the time had come to retire vinyl for Since the LP was analog, any damage on it like affect the sound. Even extended use can cause There were concerns about dynamic range - the range of sound frequencies that the Moreover, other consumer audio particularly the magnetic tape compact cassettes. These big vinyl In 1969, a researcher at the Klaas Compaan, suggested the use of the began throwing around the idea of tracks with ## Video Long Play A few years later in 1972, Philips announced The name is supposed to evoke the which was by then a well-established But they were loosey-goosey with the names, If you are interested in VCRs, I recommend Anyway, this is how VLP worked. To make the disc, Philips used a laser to record an analog color disc would then be used for consumer To read the disc, inside the machine there lurks The laser light passes through the disc's surface. On that surface, we have a series The pit's depth is about 160 nanometers or wavelength. So when that light hits a pit, it If it hits a land, then the light reflects at photodiode receptor in the machine. The receptor With this setup, the disc and the reader would never physically touch. And no ## Market Failure Philips released the VLP format in 1974, Yet customers mostly did not care. 200 of the returned by customers, who apparently thought that Customers also complained that and less reliable than VCR cassettes. After two A few years later, a division of DiscoVision or just Discovision used the VLP technology to sell discs The collaboration was troubled. The the players so expensive that Discovision's disc production yields. They blamed each Movie enthusiasts did love the disc's high quality opted for the VCR's overall ubiquity, long video Nevertheless, the LaserDisc became a niche eventually bought into the format and stabilized became quite popular in Japan, thanks to heavy ## The Compact Disc As the VLP was failing out of the market, Philips' inventor of the cassette tape, asked technology to store and play four Hi-Fi Having four audio signals was which had just two. Four is bigger A team at the Philips Research got together on a project they called since everyone assumed that an Their first implementation would be analog-only, With the VLP, engineers leaned on the fact masking out the errors. But with audio, scratches By the end of 1975, they concluded that an analog LP at delivering high quality sound. The ## Going Digital Meaning to encode the audio data Like the Video Long Play these bits are put onto the James Russell invented the concept of digital and later received a patent on Other riffs on the idea have been patented But Philips' implementation had a to raise the &quot;signal to noise&quot; ratio First, a nifty optical trick. The disc's be about 1.1 millimeters thick. The width of the The width of the laser beam being smaller meant that dust and small scratches on the and end up blurry. This preserves However, this nifty - and very enough to raise the &quot;signal to noise&quot; Additional powerful error correction Error correction means burning redundant errors. Error concealment kicks into effect when hiding an error by extrapolating what Philips called it the &quot;Compact Disc&quot; to an earlier Philips product first introduced in ## Taking It to the World they brought their product to The Board's first piece of quality had to be further improved Their second was that Philips had to You cannot have a repeat of what happened standards emerged around the world - NTSC, PAL On March 8th 1979, Philips held a press format, calling it the &quot;music box of the were looking to partner with someone in After that, they went to a to demonstrate the system On the last day of that trip, Sony general director of audio, saying ## Sony Sony had been working on their own digital them a 30 centimeter platter idea with 13 hours Despite working on similar products, another. They collaborated on the audio and Sony's backing of the format helped That earlier effort let the high-level managers Future Sony president Norio Ohga was very friendly Ottens extended to Ohga a standing invitation In a few ways, the two companies were similar. Sony shared a record business joint of which Ohga oversaw as president, company Polygram. This would Both companies had recently tasted bitter losing to JVC and Panasonic. And Philips, Neither wanted another format war and teaming up Last but not least, the two also different things to the potluck. Philips while Sony had expertise in digital, So while there was a faction inside Philips the Sony and Philips tie-up made the most sense. could not produce something sellable, then Once final products came out, the two companies would return to being competitors the two companies being on different ## Collaboration The two companies' teams attended six each other's disc standards and building up the One core item was the code for error of code which Sony later came back with a better Another item was the sampling frequency. we are approximating a continuous signal How frequently we sample that analog line CD's audio sampling frequency is quite famous, 44.1 kHz. It was chosen because the digital are PCM adaptors, which were based Because the CD had to be compatible with the only sampling frequencies available They chose the latter literally just ## Beethoven The most famous core item This directly influenced the playing time. A 5% increase in disc size increases disc The final Compact Disc is 120 millimeters wide. And very famously, it started off 74 minutes and 33 seconds to be precise. Why 74 minutes? If you Google around for a few those told by Philips itself - say it is Prior to the CD's invention, the longest Ninth a legendary performance conducted So one story goes that the or Norio Ohga loved Beethoven's wanted a disc with enough capacity Another version of the story claims that Norio Ohga himself, who chose 74 minutes Ohga was a passionate musician Yet Another story says that Sony and Philips the famed conductor Herbert von Karajan, again and Morita were good friends, and swam nude Karajan later conducted a recording of that later became the first ever CD test which probably explains why many of the CD's However, a later retrospective by a winner Kees Schouhamer Immink insists that At the start, both companies' disc prototypes But the Philips' disc width was originally 115 How can the discs be different time? This discrepancy, we will talk about later. The Philips top managers chose 115 compact cassette tape was diagonally. they felt like the CD shouldn't But during a meeting in May 1980, the disc The meeting's minutes give no reason There was a reason, but it had nothing to do with Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. Why? then why did Sony originally propose a 100 Also, the actual final playing time could decided. This was because the channel code, the bits onto the disc, had not yet been millimeters. And channel code plays a Channel code would not be decided for agreed to adopt Immink's channel code, offered an information density boost at the cost integrated circuits into just three. This indeed Immink has since made it clear that was already building a 115 millimeter CD so agreeing to 115 would have given the Dutch not want that. 120 millimeters was a neutral Sony and Philips jointly published meeting between the two companies was ## Market Introduction Companies can introduce new standards all The CD format faced formidable Mini-Disk format that offered some And CBS was offering their Compatible have integrated with LP players to And JVC had an &quot;Audio High Density&quot; technology the CD offered something completely different Yes, both Sony and Philips owned music those subsidiaries to adopt the 107 CD titles were either from CBS/Sony So they submitted the CD standard to a committee of 29 electronics manufacturers Trade and Industry or MITI. Its goal was to set The DAD committee was holding a conference published the CD Red Book in June 1980 to standard and decide whether or not to adopt it. Before the conference started however, Matsushita to Panasonic until 2008 - announced on January This was despite Matsushita being JVC's parent Again like as it was before Panasonic's decision tipped the balance. consumer electronics companies on The DAD committee later approved the CD along never took off. In October 1981, Philips at the Japan Audio Fair. By the end of In 1982, the first CD players started to hit Philips' Pinkeltje, it's the name of a friendly ## Success Everyone hopes that they can make Immink himself remarked that, having recently he had not been sure at the time whether And audio format changes are always a big have to go buy their whole music collection Surprisingly, Philips and Sony had a take on the CD. Jerry Moss, president of argued - somewhat presciently masters invited piracy. Many musicians So imagine how surprised they were Sony America's entire 1984 profit in Indiana. There are a few reasons First, the CD's audio quality really was superior so sure about that. Audiophiles did and still And maybe theirs did, but quality depended on how they were played. Most vinyls of that sounded terrible. Your average CD Second, CDs lasted far longer than LPs. Vinyl records did indeed crack and fall apart did not suffer this deterioration over time, Third, the CD didn't have fight a format war like with Betamax and VHS. The backing But in 1981, the CD was already potential competitors like Audio High It helped too that Philips and Sony charged fighting the Betamax and VHS war, and Philips had a history of making their agreed to make the Red Book available In 1982, Philips made something like 3 cents for like $16.95. Of course there were other And finally, the CD gave consumers experience. Someone listening to an album or play their favorite song on Whereas with the tape cassettes, where you have to do this rewind-stop-play Or with Vinyl, where you have to delicately fiddle with a phonograph arm - ask your The CD offered a better consumer experience ironically enough, was the harbinger ## The Computer The CD's first few years, it But people quickly grasped that the computers. So Philips and Sony teamed up Book&quot; standards for the Compact Then in 1985, the big computer makers plus Sierra Hotel and Casino in Nevada to hash Released in 1988, ISO 9660 set the international CD. The first PC peripheral CD-ROM These drives became really popular after the prices from $300 per unit in 1990 to $100 by 1995. ## Conclusion The record labels made record Thanks in part to a new round of As well as thanks to an anti-competitive mid-1990s that artificially kept CD prices high. But change again was in the mix. All possible for PCs to read an audio CD. You or encode that music into files that you the internet. In June 1999, Napster