There is more money here than we could spend in 10 lifetimes. I certainly can't launder it. That's pretty realistic too. You're going to have to have to run through millions of dollars. Hi, I'm Jerri Williams, and I was a special agent I investigated economic I'm also the author of &quot;FBI A Manual for Armchair Detectives.&quot; Today we're going to look in movies and judge Marty: Money-laundering 101. Say you come across a suitcase What would you buy? A yacht? A mansion? A sports car? Now, his money-laundering but he has some things that are wrong. Marty: The IRS won't let you The IRS will let you spend but they want to know And they also want to make So, if a criminal or a bad guy goes in and wants to lay down a that is going to be reported to the IRS. I think it's called Form 8300. And if they're suspicious it's also going to be reported to FinCEN. Marty: You gotta age it up. Crumple it, drag it through the dirt. You don't need to run it But I guess if a criminal has and it's coming in brand-new, crisp bills and he's trying to pretend that it's part of his normal I guess he would want to make it look like it has been handled, but I've never heard of that before. Marty: Next, you need a cash business. This clip is very realistic. Strip clubs and casinos, any type of business where cash are just the perfect kind of businesses to do money laundering. Marty: That mixture goes to a bank from any country that doesn't have to listen to the IRS. It then goes into a and viola. All you need is access to one Because your work is done. Well, your work is done once the money is in the banking system. It doesn't need to be sent anywhere else. It's now, you know, The only thing that he doesn't talk about is the fact that when if it's over $10,000, you have to fill out what is called a CTR, or a currency transaction report. And this is required of any bank. And, of course, on that form, you have to indicate I would give this clip I think they got a lot of it right about the general, basic Steve: And Gacha had the of all time. He would inject bad stones and have his friends in Miami buy the emeralds with drug money and give them as gifts to hookers in town. And this is another example If no one is looking to put a value on those gems or diamonds or whatever that you're exchanging for cash to legitimize your illegal funds, then, you know, on paper it appears that a legal transaction has occurred. Steve: And that's what they did. This is very realistic, and Drug dealers in South America did get to a point where that they buried it. Rumor is that that money and people are constantly Steve: They hid it in caletas, hiding places in walls and ceilings. I was involved in a search once. All of the cash was hidden It was pretty exciting to come across thousands and thousands of dollars, although tedious to have to count. I would give this clip a 10 out of 10. It's pretty authentic. There's been nobody that as much cash as Escobar has, and he's legendary. I didn't know what else to do. I tried weighing it. I figured one bill of any There are 454 grams to a pound. Money is handled on a regular basis, especially in drug dealing, and so all of that is going to make each particular bill weigh differently than it did when it was a nice, So there's really no way of determining how much money is there I just stack it up, keep it Most of the time the money I have heard so many times about drug dealers or criminals who have gathered money together and stored it in a place to find out that it's water-damaged, that it's rotting away, that it's been eaten There is more money here than we could spend in 10 lifetimes. I certainly can't launder That's pretty realistic too. You're going to have to have to run through millions of dollars. I think I'd give it a 10 out of 10. I think it's pretty realistic, the issue of having and the way it's being stored. Where does this check go? Montana Realty Company. This is the point where the It turns into money laundering running it through a realty company. And so this is a pretty I have heard of many businesses that have been used as and it's kind of sweet and funny that many of them use the their wives, or their children. It's kind of sweet until the federal government All right, freeze! Get 'em up! Get your hands up! Officer: Put your hands Let your undercover get out of the scene before There is no rush. You know the money's there, you know the transaction's been made, you have the camera, Officer: Put 'em up against the wall. You're under arrest for So, he mentions RICO here. RICO is the Racketeering Influenced Corrupt Organization Act, and it is used when you are investigating a large organization. You see that eye there on the clock? Say, &quot;Hi, honey.&quot; I think they could have done a better job [laughs] of disguising it. I would wonder if there was a camera being poked out of this clock. Most of the time I have on the cooperating witness or the undercover agent's person. You know, a beeper or in a cellphone or in a book. Many times lamps are used just because they're at the right height and they're very effective I would rate it about a 7 or 8. I think it's pretty realistic when it comes to the exchange of funds. You know, I have problems with the fact that they're sitting you know, for hours on end. Let me ask you something. What about her family, right? How would anybody think the security system at most airports with money like that Before we became much here in the United States, anyway, the TSA, you know, I would still Nowadays you're going to have as well as all your carry-on luggage. I mean, they all got The woman and her family are what we would call money mules. People that are being paid A money mule can also be paid just to open up bank accounts and then make those deposits and transfers in their own name on It's very common that a criminal will ask a family member but they can also just pay a stranger. I mean, she's got parents, Brother's got a wife, Six, seven trips, boom. One of the things that really is that I know this particular case that this movie is made about, and it was an investment fraud. The money was already So I'm not even sure where It was not a cash business. I hope this is a scene because it's pure comedy. There are parts of the whole I mean, it is based on a real case, but these scenes, not good at all. I would rate it as low as a 1 or a 2. Immigration official: I can on a private jet that Transferring funds from an into her own account. This is what people think about when they think about money laundering. But, in fact, it's not money laundering. It's identity fraud, it's I have a number of accounts at Bank of Kroenfeld, Cayman Islands. I'd like to transfer those accounts and convert them to bonds. Naturally, you have the clearing codes. Naturally. How many accounts will 30. Because of digital fingerprinting I think it's becoming harder and harder to do identity fraud through disguises. So, you know, she's but the documentation, her passport, and other types of identification must be able to be verified. Reporter: Where fugitive financier here in this Caribbean island's -- Now it's money laundering, and she has disguised and concealed them. She's taken money that was in the banking system and she's transferred those funds and converted them into bonds. How many of these would you All 50 into five accounts. These counterfeit bonds, I to a Swiss banker. And so they're going to have to have the appropriate weight and the appropriate official markings that these types of bonds And it's a criminal act of the banker if they do not verify the Or if they believe that those funds were part of a criminal activity, the banker would not accept because doing so would The things that you hear has to do with once those funds have been legitimately deposited. But banking in Switzerland still works just like any They still want to know who you are. I think that I would give You know the drill, Into it you put anything with Barry Seal's face or name on it. Barry: Come on, boys, we gotta move. I can tell you watching There are some agents in the FBI who would rather poke than to have to go through Of course, now a lot of this This still goes on, but it's to destroy evidence you know, boxes and Agent: Seal! DEA! Back away from the truck I have been in many situations, especially during searches, where we come in and identify ourselves and immediately have Agent: ATF! Drop your weapons! Whoa, whoa, whoa, DEA! ATF! Put your guns down! It's cool! Everybody's friends here! Now, this particular case happened before the late 1980s. Maybe something like this could happen, but it doesn't happen anymore. Not since they created so that they can deconflict or prevent all of those agencies coming up on the same You don't want to have or law-enforcement officer or agent harmed because of friendly fire. So I would rate this movie clip about a 5. The last half, when we had all of these law-enforcement agencies converging at the same time, no, A last-minute addition to your catalog. Lot No. 277 A, oil on canvas, signed by the artist. &quot;The Road to Damascus&quot; This part of the clip is pretty funny. Art is in the eyes of the beholder, and it's harder for authorities to be able to determine what is the value of art. And unlike other businesses, the art dealer does not have to complete that CTR, like we talked about, to let the IRS know that this transaction has been made. 50,000, anyone? No? Oh, well, too bad then. Money laundering doesn't usually occur at an auction like this. Each art in an auction where you know exactly who is the artist, how much this work of It has a trail of how much it's worth, how much it's been valued in the past. We have $50,000. When you have a single purchaser, then that again is when that this might be a Quite a painting you Thank you. Somebody at that level that a painting of that quality would sell for this amount. Now he's part of the conspiracy, and so if I were able I'd tell him this is the point where he needs to come clean to the FBI. I would rate this scene about a 7 or an 8. I think they got a lot of the things right about using art in a Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this video, why not check out the video above?