(gentle music) - [Narrator] At exactly 8:32 President Bush leaves his room in Florida and gets into heading to a local elementary school. The reason for this visit is that he's promoting On the scale of priority, that would be forgotten by history. However, just minutes before a breaking news message makes the rounds, one that will forever change At 8:46 AM, Flight 11 crashes into the North Tower of And the news of this event historically unprecedented manner. Just one minute and 28 a camera crew from WNYW goes on air. - [Reporter] Jim, just a few moments ago, something believed to be a plane, crashed into the South Tower - [Narrator] At 8:49 AM, CNN pauses their programming followed by CNBC, ABC, NBC, CBS, Fox News and international television stations. In less than 10 minutes, the eyes of the whole world However, nothing is known about the causes at this point in time, and speculation about a possible accident is circulating in Sarasota, where Bush is preparing Right along Bush's side, is White House Press who throughout the day is that reveal how everything unfolded from the President's perspective, with White House Chief of Staff Karl Rove informing the President about the impact just before he heads into As the nation listens to TV anchors speculating potential the President listens to school There's still the possibility that it could all be But a few minutes later, this At 9:03 AM, United Flight 175 Exactly two minutes elapsed as the news circulated among reporters and White House staff, with the President being unaware of what's going the White House Chief of and says, &quot;A second plane America is under attack.&quot; A few miles away, at this time, a US government modified Boeing 747 with the usual call sign, Air Force One, prepares to take the President to Washington DC. What no one can predict at this point is that the President for much longer today. After the school event was cut short, senior White House staff gathers for a briefing, following the news on TV, much like the rest of the country, and an initial statement was prepared. - Today we've had a national tragedy. - [Narrator] Simultaneously, the Air Force is clearing the way for a seamless flight of - [Air Base Staff] I need on Air Force One today and make They're gonna probably to come back to Washington D.C. So is there any way that - [Command Center Staff] Yeah. - [Air Base Staff] They're out of Sarasota and they'll be coming back I believe. - [Narrator] But whether to the capital in this as the attacks on the nation continue. While the President is in his limousine heading to the airport, he's - [News Anchor] This is We're looking at a live and there is smoke pouring - [Narrator] About 10 against the Pentagon, Air Force One is about to The Secret Service had received reports that a person with an unclear device was near one end of the runway, and the fear was that Even though later, it turned As a precaution, the pilot and take off from the other side so as not to be in the line of Unlike usual, the plane also climbs at a safety maneuver that can As Air Force One heading towards the capital city, one other plane over US airspace is still under the Flight 93, initially had changed course. Now, also approaching Washington DC. As it later turns out, the had heard of the attacks on New York and initiated a revolt with passengers attempting At 10:03 AM, Flight 93 crashes Although the revolt was unsuccessful in saving the passengers, it did save lives by from reaching their destination. Meanwhile, aboard Air Force One, heated debates are raging should be flying at this time. Bush himself had given the But in the midst of an ongoing threat, the Secret Service was Bush was barred, or at from returning to DC. Instead, Barksdale Air Force Here, Air Force One can then refuel, and a longer plan can be can most effectively carry out his duties. As the plane heads for Louisiana, growing concerns are also of Air Force One itself becoming a target. While the plane is equipped to detect radar and heat-guided missiles, it has no way to protect itself against an airliner collision. - [Herndon Center Staff] Air Force One is filing a random route, by the way. - [FAA Staff] Okay. - [Herndon Center Staff] We to go, but they still don't - [FAA Staff] They still do not? - [Herndon Center Staff] That's correct. - [FAA Staff] Holy cow. - [Narrator] Adding to this concern is the fact that some airplane were not immediately which led to the wrong belief that there might be an still missing. Every plane in the sky was therefore Air Force One started climbing to an extremely high flight level, above the usual cruising heading up to 45,000 feet, While lateral movement is Air Force One had this And then, towards the end of Air Force One was joined that had taken off from to escort the President Throughout the flight, Air Force One's normally were suddenly unreliable, making communications where Vice President Cheney was sheltered in a secret Communication networks across the country were at their limit that day. And Air Force One wasn't an exception. And it was during this flight when a controversial one that until today, is a controversial topic of discussion. In the bunker below the White House, there were ongoing fears was flying towards Washington DC. It later turned out which crashed in Pennsylvania However, the information about the crash had not yet reached the White House. And between 10:12 and 10:18 AM, Vice President Cheney was asked whether this plane should be shot down if it continued to head According to witnesses, as he replied without hesitation and gave the go ahead of a commercial plane that poses danger. The problem with such an order, however, is that Cheney, as Vice President, is not part of the According to this hierarchy, such an order comes from the President, with the only other person in question being the Secretary of who is second in line to the President. Rumsfeld could not be reached, because he was at the Pentagon, which was itself the target of an attack, and he was busy helping Standing in the same when he made that order, was White House Deputy Chief After Cheney made the order, to call the President Cheney does exactly so, and rings Air Force One at 10:18 AM to speak with the President. According to the investigation report, this phone call lasts two minutes, which lines up with the notes that Ari Fleischer took at 10:20 AM. These notes show the words, &quot;authorized shot down if necessary.&quot; The question, however, remains. Did Vice President Cheney that he wasn't entitled to give? He himself denied it, and stated that he had in a previous conversation with Bush. And in fact, Fleischer's notes spoke on the phone beforehand, visible in the above entry at 9:45 AM. However, there is no about a possible shootdown. Whether the two spoke about this or not can not be answered conclusively. Upon landing at Barksdale Air Force Base, a more detailed briefing took place, and the President once - Freedom itself was - [Narrator] As Bush delivers his speech, his security team and national advisors have come up with a new destination. The President is determined saying, &quot;I want to go back home, ASAP. And I don't want whoever this is, holding me outside Washington.&quot; But the Secret Service the President's lead Secret &quot;Our people are saying Therefore, at 1:48 PM, Air Force One takes off heading not for Washington, but for the Offut Air The reason they decided to go here is that this base has an immensely protected with advanced communication capabilities. On this journey to Nebraska, Air Force One was flying in American airspace. Already at 9:45 AM, one a complete closure of all after which aircraft had to land at the nearest possible airport. At around 12:15, this with all commercial and After landing at Offut Air Force Base, the President and his team gathered in the US STRATCOM bunker. It is located 40 feet to provide protection In addition to an extensive there are also several and even bedrooms, so that as an overnight base, if necessary. At 4:36 PM, the act of seemed to have come to an end, and the security situation to take his third flight of the day. Air Force One departs, bound But even this flight was carried out under immense security concerns as the Secret Service not in the airspace, but also considers One not frequently reported on concern was that just a few hours earlier, a call had come in at the with a message that resulted The message on the call Angel is the internal code and what is especially concerning is the fact that this code leading Secret Service might be plotting an attack on the plane. In face of this ominous message, the Secret Service decided in the aisle of the Presidential area. Additionally, another agent was placed ready to defend it from any intruders. In the later investigation into it'll appear that a number had led to this warning, and that these exact words It was one of many false alarms that day that severely raised tensions At 6:44 PM, Air Force One lands From here, the President flies on Marine where he will address the that same evening. A simple journey that was supposed to take just two and a half hours, turned into a tense relay and the White House in DC. All in all, it took more than nine hours, a time period in which in an attack that will As for Air Force One, this was arguably the most serious test of its safety capabilities Many of the protocols were shown to work and the pilots made decisions At the same time, the day with a large delay until the as well as confusion due to false reports, and an unreliable communication network. All things that were improved The September 11 attacks of global events directly into In the more than 20 years since, the media landscape has Today, outlets not only but also on generating clicks, leading to increasingly divisive headlines and stories designed to provoke outrage. And it's easy to fall into this cycle of only reading articles To better navigate this, I the sponsor of this video. Their app allows you to see how different news outlets helping you spot biases. For example, this story about the which interestingly is almost by right-leaning media. The story as written up is that the judge in the trial against former President Trump has told the jury that Trump is guilty to convict would be a scandal. However, Ground News of these outlets, and it provides a different What the judge actually said is that jurors can disagree but very well have to be unanimous Ground News highlights That is, when a story is by either left or right-leaning media, and it lets you compare headlines to see which spin a certain topic, so you can see every side of is saying about the same story. Ground News also provides information on the ownership Plus you can track your own news bias based on the articles that you read. In order to access all you can get 40% off their if you use my link, ground.news/neo. It truly is a fantastic without falling into an echo chamber. So thank you for checking out Ground News, and thank you so much