When my grandfather died, it He used to tell us the craziest stories, fictional he'd write them all down one day, but he never fair share of video games at the time and among very similar scenario without apology. It was this other side of the screen understood exactly what story offered no answers and no solutions. And yet in the end this story helped me grieve. As I anxieties and isolation, guilt and depression. of Silent Hill feel. Putting this all on screen instead has helped me work through it. and indeed I have but to study these four games yearning for contemplation... for answers. trap that's tempting to fall into. By only wading the ends of real world history only to again and the exploration of the human condition are the the pursuit of lore and mechanical consistency underneath those dressings. The primary reason framework to sift through so we can find the we're going to start with the original Silent complex as its three sequels--which is a high bar Hill 1 sets the foundation of how these stories original's premises. While I'm not really a fan on me) it still needs to be done to declutter first Silent Hill game is just the most literal of to inform the language that the sequels utilize. nothing is assumed and nothing is missed so long the original reading of the source material and point of view in chronological order as the a rundown of everything that was happening in the and the mysteries within. In Christian apologetics &quot;exegesis&quot; and &quot;eisegesis.&quot; (And no, that's not text as it is fully written with the full context to find support of my own pre-existing beliefs. are to this day still in dispute and I'm growing made up information going around on the internet. half Mandela effect.) So perhaps controversially no Prima Guide quips or Lost Memories fan from Masahiro Ito. The highest authority is the and cannot be altered anymore. It's a static scriptura.&quot; Ito himself admitted to never having unified Team Silent responsible for absolutely Muse's video on the topic for more information on and authors accountable to either adhere to reference in validating retcon. When the lines share what I think is the most likely scenario should they differ, while also leaving room to We're looking for evidence more than we're looking finding out what's true, rather than proving everything away than I am trying to find the is just my limited perspective as a 30-something the freshest layer of paint off the cohesion storytelling. And that certainly doesn't make me imagination. And please if I do get something don't hesitate to let me know in the comments. addressing my mistakes. Also, I just want to let part simply for myself. To help me organize while maybe gleaning a thing or two for my own game before, I still highly recommend it before play on PC here on my channel... or at least I that later. As well as I may try to summarize replicated here. Silent Hill and the series as a and especially don't let your first exposure be yourself in a dark room with a pair of headphones allow yourself to sink into the fog and the abyss find the controls too tedious or something, it's substitute for the narrative's basic points, with only a single playthrough. And it should go films and the games are from entirely different Silent Hill stems from the film's rewriting There's no Centralia, Pennsylvania influence not really. We'll--we'll get there. This video stamp where you need to take a break as a comment always do a good job of remembering for you and you already know the story by heart, feel free to the description. This set of games is very close in my own opinion, a landmark of masterclass but as a story all its own. It's my intention to four to build a fundamental understanding of discover its emotional truths and perhaps a I'm GlitchyReal and this is 'the midnight the dark. We're going to where all Slut dina ogon. Lat dina oron (Close your eyes. Let your ears listen Harry awakens in the wreckage of his night. Someone had run out in the road and His daughter Cheryl is missing. Climbing out the frostbitten fog and calls out to her. &quot;Where respond. She darts down a dark alley and Harry An air rate siren rings through the air. It isn't to need to strike a match to see. The deeper becomes. Bleeding chain link. Gurneys swarming There's nowhere to run... and Harry is killed. Harry awakens to find himself in a diner. What Cybil, a police officer from the neighboring town on the road the night before, but doesn't say of the vacation town of Silent Hill has suddenly going in or out of the town. Cybil wants to Harry. But of course Harry's primary concern girl? Just turned seven last month... Short, black seen in this town is you.&quot; When Cybil tells him something to himself and goes back out to look do you think you're going?&quot; &quot;My daughter. I've got &quot;In that case I need to find her now. Cheryl's by herself!&quot; Seeing his point she lets him go, and a bit of wisdom. &quot;Now listen to me before And don't do it unless you have to. And don't go Cybil promising to bring back up. Harry scrounges flashlight, and a map of the town. But upon leaving, &quot;This is not a dream! What's happening a monster lies dead at Harry's feet. Cybil was to that alley and look for Cheryl. But this time buildings. No blood, no corpses... No darkness, no same one that she had with her in the car. On a 'to school.' Cheryl seems to be leaving her dad collapsed, he finds another note directing him Street. Having found three keys around town, Harry The Darkness returns. The monsters through the narrow cone of the flashlight. and throws open the doors... to absolute silence. all the uncanniness of a school after place though. Such as the riddles written the surrealist painting in poor taste in They're here too. After solving the riddles, Harry is able to door in the courtyard that leads inside the without turning around Harry ends up right back before? Hm. I don't remember this being here before.&quot; to rain something doesn't feel right. What etched into the ground. It *is* the same building and the dark alley with blood and rusted metal. &quot;Daddy, help me. Daddy, where are you?&quot; &quot;Cheryl!&quot; With renewed vigor, Harry presses on. In fairy tale Harry remembers from his childhood. It but a lone hero taunted the beast to get it his arrow down the throat of the beast, perhaps more intriguing book is titled describes the existence of the ability for one energies fueled by negative emotions like occur more frequently in adolescent girls. While would be important, but something supernatural way down into the basement, he sees a blazing beast appears from behind it. But just like in the dead. Harry stands dumbfounded as the visage of that terrible scene. On the ground is a house key etched into it. Hearing the sounds of church bells, in this town. Maybe it's Cheryl! ...or Cybil? Perhaps and home of K. Gordon to reach a new area of Old to find neither Cheryl nor Cybil but an old woman of his arrival and possibly even where talking about Cheryl.&quot; Harry demands answers but is With no other context, Dahlia tells him to &quot;--make abruptly leaves without another word more. Having to Alchemilla Hospital in the southern part of Central takes shelter from the monsters in the nearby There are notes scrolled on a chalkboard about of it seems relevant to the matter at hand. So the hospital, Harry hears gunfire. He investigates, Dr. Michael Kaufmann, another survivor who was having disappeared and the monsters attacking. first thing Harry asked Kaufmann is if he's all those monsters around I highly doubt that a terrible possibility. To change the subject, he explains that she died four years earlier. Again his own separate way on a mission to figure out and the two part ways. Searching through the halls trashed and a pile of strange liquid soaking it is it looks like it was intentionally he leaves it behind. Finding the basement key into the basement to switch on the electric floor but the doors are locked. He instead tries It's happening again. The hospital is The darkness... The doors locked behind Harry as staff still wander the halls, but half alive with as they brandish knives to kill Harry. The rooms useless objects. Others are filled with strange the first floor, Harry hears the sound of It doesn't sound like one of the monsters. Who was basement and finds a secret set of rooms beyond dedicated medical machinery with the picture of the same young woman he's seen twice before? room, Harry returns to the upper floors to watch sounds like a patient's condition. Otherwise, it's first floor examination room, Harry unlocks the Lisa Garland, like Kaufmann is hospital staff on. &quot;Harry, tell me what's happening here. knocked out. When I came to, everyone was gone. Great. Do you know anything about all Is there something down there? We're under storeroom. What did you say was down there?&quot; &quot;Well, him to his knees. Sirens begin to wail in the black. &quot;Was I dreaming?&quot; Harry awakens again in the Had he passed out? What happened? No sooner could ill news. &quot;The town is being devoured by darkness talk.&quot; Harry doesn't understand, but Dahlia entreats you not seen the crest marked on the ground all That seal that appeared throughout the town and and more prevalent it is the Mark of Samael. &quot;Don't that is your destination. This is beyond my as before, Dahlia leaves without giving any more antique shop where Harry finds a dark, broken both surprised and relieved to see each other. Cybil due to all the collapsed roads and regrets leaving seen Cheryl. &quot;I did see a girl. &quot;Was it Cheryl?&quot; &quot;I only after her, but she vanished. I don't know about your &quot;On Bachman Road. She was heading towards the lake. exactly. There was no place for her to go. The road on thin air.&quot; &quot;What?&quot; Neither understands what this decides that the lake must be his next destination. out. Harry mentions his encounter with Dahlia and Cybil easily dismisses this as someone under the drug trafficking problem. Harry isn't sure drug on and, in all honesty, neither is she. Shifting Cybil offers to explore first, citing her police insists on going first. But just before entering the walls... bleed. The floors vanishing. The sirens you're talking about Harry.&quot; &quot;Oh...&quot; &quot;Harry. You're tired.&quot; &quot;other church.&quot; Enshrined is the image of a deity, but With nothing else to do, Harry leaves. &quot;What the...?!&quot; Cybil comes running, but Harry is nowhere to fell in the examination room of the hospital was having a bad dream. Fresh on his mind, Harry her. Dahlia Gillespie is an eccentric woman with a that way since her child died in a fire some devouring the town she had referred to. &quot;Do &quot;Yes, I think I do.&quot; Silent Hill is a home to a local occult. But when the vacation resort was built, &quot;Last time I heard anything about it was, gosh, developing the town died in accidents. People said talking. Harry... awakens...? He's back in the other his rope, can't tell what's real or not anymore. everything happening is a dream he's having, crash. Deciding that he can't afford to think too But with the roads out, there's still no way hospital to ask Lisa if she knows of any other Harry cuts through the Silent Hill Town Center life in a flurry of snow. Every screen displaying out for her father's help. &quot;Daddy, where are her *now.* Rushing ahead, the floor collapses beneath the shuffling sounds of the monstrous toxic worm rifle off the shelf of a destroyed sporting goods flees, shattering the window glass. As the only spiraling turbines and swarming monsters and see him since... he... left...?? But Harry's on a mission There's a path through the underground waterworks lake. Determined, Harry turns to leave but Lisa be alone. It's so scary, I can't stand it.&quot; &quot;How about the world either. I can't promise you anything, but I'm not supposed to leave this place. Oh, Harry. a little longer.&quot; Harry, promising to return after Harry is forced to run up the building across the now metamorphosed into a giant moth. Avoiding until its legs curl and it plummets from the sky. this is what normal is. Not stopping to catch his padlock shuts the way. Harry destroys it and heads the warnings of monsters it brings are silent. He the twisted maze to emerge in the Resort Area of slipping away from him, he runs to the end of the markedly different. It's not like wandering from itself *becoming* the nightmare. Trepidatiously, Cybil and Harry find each other again. After to know what's happening more than ever since they in. &quot;At first I thought I was losing my mind, but It's being invaded by the Otherworld. By a world Little by little the invasion is spreading, trying finally beginning to understand what that lady be starting to make some sense. A nightmare and the head around it and as Harry admits neither can there by whoever is causing this 'Otherworld' again to confirm Harry's suspicions. &quot;Hungry for what's more, the task is almost finished. There's the Mark of Samael. When it is completed, all is save Cheryl.&quot; &quot;It is simple. Stop the demon. The demon! your daughter becomes a sacrifice! Before it is completed. One in the lighthouse nearby and another 'Otherworld' will complete its invasion and Harry split up to head the demon off. Harry takes Cybil leaves, Dahlia tells Harry that the Flauros the demon. With all haste, Harry rushes through from reaching his final destination. He climbs &quot;Wait! Damn, I was too late.&quot; Defeated, he returns had returned yet. The amusement park &quot;Let me be on time!&quot; Through as everything depends on his speed. Past black tunnels, Harry emerges into the Lakeside Cybil. Something's wrong... Cybil fires missing Harry. At a loss for any Having ended the life of his only ally, Harry and Harry confronts her with contempt in his voice. do and I don't care. Just one thing. Let Cheryl go. hand. A sudden force throwing Harry to the ground. divides them. Just then, the Flauros reacts. Glowing swipe of blue light that saps her of her power. The time. &quot;Where's Cheryl? Give me back my daughter.&quot; But this is the end of your little game.&quot; &quot;Mama...&quot; &quot;You've was careless. Yhinking you couldn't escape from our That's why I couldn't catch you all by half indebted to this man for his help. Alessa, need you to do for me.&quot; &quot;No, get away from me!&quot; Bad &quot;What's going on here?&quot; Harry... awakens? He finds himself again facing Lisa in asks where Alessa and Dahlia went, but Lisa on something else: the storeroom basement. &quot;While Like I'd been there before. Like something happened it? Harry... Help me. I'm so scared. I can't take this.&quot; thing. You're in shock from when you were knocked while.&quot; &quot;No, you don't understand. Lisa storms out of than ever. A rumbling sound grows louder and louder, basement. &quot;I'm being summoned. What making things like this? I have a feeling ...Cheryl...&quot; Harry exits the elevator to what looks apparition of a little girl who looks identical the other doors, Harry descends through the back at Midwich. Only a singular desk sits in into into the wood. &quot;Go home. Thief. Drop dead.&quot; dark and the warped chaos of disjointed and and finding keys to explore deeper within. whatever religion Dahlia is involved with. After Lisa for the last time. &quot;I get it now... Why I'm I'm not the only one who's still walking noticed it before. Stay by me, Harry. Please. I'm &quot;...Lisa...&quot; Perhaps out of regret or a morbid curiosity, remains where she once stood. It describes Lisa's heal. She wanted to quit, but was ultimately began to occur. Insects swarmed in closed rooms. pus would flow through the bathroom faucet unable drug.' Harry leaves to take an elevator to another in front of the very same altar from the other altar. One depicting 'the light illuminating the Using the flash of a camera to reveal the codes Harry presses on. He finds the room with the She was taking care of the patient in her die. Lisa begged someone who was off-screen continues on going deep into what looks like the visions of past events. One such involves Dahlia this? They were discussing a plan involving half living body lying helplessly in the bed. Kaufmann assures him it's only a delay. A delay for what? Yet able to draw much, if any, of some kind of power. lure this lost half back, but it will take a very machinery by the bed, it's clear that the patient was kept when Lisa took care of her. Charred and death. The last room Harry reaches looks like a A school uniform hanging on the wall... A framed drawings lay on the floor... Fairy tales and picture occult talismans he's collected in that 'Nowhere he's met with one last vision of the past, seeing her of her power and Alessa refuses. &quot;I don't want your own good, too.&quot; &quot;Oh, but mommy, I just want to be see. Maybe mommy has been wrong.&quot; &quot;Mommy!&quot; &quot;Why didn't lies the mother's womb, containing the power &quot;Mommy?!&quot; With the sense of impending doom, Harry Harry confronts Dahlia. &quot;Where's Cheryl? What about? You've seen her many times restored there.&quot; &quot;That's absurd.&quot; &quot;You are the only one &quot;It's been a long seven years. For the seven has been kept alive suffering a fate worse endless nightmare from which she never awakens. for the day to be born. That day has finally Upon this proclamation, Alessa's body, bound in a light. At the height of Dahlia's euphoric in flame. Protected by that same invisible barrier, being, slaying her once and for all. Collapsing, &quot;Thank you, Daddy. Goodbye.&quot; Alessa and Cheryl, two disappearing into nothingness as darkness the realization that he had just killed the ground as all fades to black. We see that a nightmare of his own making before his &quot;...can't be! Can't leave like this!&quot; Harry awakens. What could have or some miracle from God, Harry is given a he would have realized his critical mistakes. know who you're shooting. And don't do it unless Got it?&quot; Perhaps Cybil needn't die after all. At the the director's office. Grabbing a plastic bottle doesn't yet know what it's for, but he has an when exiting the waterworks, he slows down encounters Dr. Kaufmann here scrambling to keep progress on finding a way out of town of which hopeful they'll be rescued at any time. &quot;A military come through the town, we're home free.&quot; Eager remembering that he worked at the hospital, &quot;No.&quot; On the ground, Harry notices something that A receipt and a key. The receipt is from a has a code written in red. The store is padlocked around, he finds a safe filled with packages. the store owner, who doesn't want to be involved from an unnamed woman to an unspecified man. Finding a delivery note with the back door code, newspaper citing the suspicious death of both the one mentioned back in the police station--who was 'PTV.' Harry enters a motel room to find another the gas cap of a motorcycle parked in the garage plastic bag with a red vial inside. Kaufmann storms of your business! Instead of messing with that how shouldn't be hanging around here goofing off!&quot; &quot;Man, was figures he's only wasted his time... and yet... When fighting her, his mind makes a wild connection. hospital. A pulsing growth, like the one seen on back. Harry wastes no time in stomping the life Cybil asks why Harry's daughter was taken. He isn't do with Cheryl not being his biological daughter. &quot;I knows anyway though. We found her abandoned on the from. We didn't have any kids of her own... my wife any better. So we took Cheryl in.&quot; &quot;So in that case...&quot; this town.&quot; At the final confrontation, Cybil arrives Metraton was being used. In spite of the lost all would have been for naught! It's all because of a shot, but the bullet is deflected before she is transform into the maiden of light, Kaufmann appears Did I ask for this? Nobody uses me!&quot; &quot;Your role is you can accomplish by coming here?&quot; &quot;My ,aren't we cool.&quot; &quot;Aglaophotis! I thought I got rid of that!&quot; you to find. You all? Well, it kept you busy. And Throwing the vial, the glass shatters over through the chamber, Dahlia cackling in kind. maiden's back, gushing and growing. Throwing Harry fires his rifle. With luck and tenacity, Alessa reappears, her light goes out. But this a swaddled babe. Offering it to Harry, he takes and goes with Harry to escape this nightmare. else. Harry and Cybil dash toward the light. too fast. Despite her death throes, Alessa holds enough for both of them to escape until she the nightmare ends. Harry and Cybil run on I appreciate you all for making it this far. With a summary this condensed, it's difficult of the understanding of these events is in the questions are yet left unanswered. What did Dahlia to achieve it? What was Kaufmann's involvement and with Dahlia? What is this 'nightmare,' this 'Nowhere,' Who exactly was Alessa and what was she trying thing they called 'God' and why was Alessa chosen to any of these questions and it doesn't help pry any further than he has to. &quot;I don't know who care.&quot; Yhe majority of the following segment is presented in the official English translation. *this* on screen with the accompanying sound effect. an old, quiet town with its own local tradition younger people were moving away and followers of them away predicated on the belief that this had this belief to the growing widespread panic of would have been the new generation of believers quickly and drastically were changing the culture outsiders everywhere, the cult stopped practicing grew up in Silent Hill, hadn't heard about it worship for themselves, Dahlia Gillespie, a leading in her own home. Sometime later, many key figures dying through what looked like accidental or a hard stance against trafficking of the drug died from a heart attack stumping the police as proclivity to heart disease. PTV is a refinement 'White Claudia' found only in the Silent Hill area used since ancient times to induce hallucinations the story began, Dahlia Gillespie made a deal Kaufmann, to use his pharmaceutical connections and into PTV. Dahlia would deliver the raw material to This type of dealing was done in the Silent Hill by Kaufmann, could be sold to the tourists. This to have not otherwise been able to procure White Both the Silent Hill and Brahm's police force to figure out who was behind these drug deals, but antagonized the drug trafficking operations, the coerced middlemen, likely Norman of his namesake's of the mayor and Officer Gucci... and he was right. was indoctrinated to be devout in her beliefs. But with tremendous power. Power the cult would take use her magical abilities to kill specified and their money-making scheme. What's interesting from other students I think I think makes far desk are likely made by Alessa herself as we see 'Thief.' Drop dead.' This sentiment exactly mirrors taking over the town. They are thieves that stole they came from... or else, as we've seen with the Alessa was indoctrinated and/or convincing herself sense that she made these scratch marks herself. works well enough. Just not quite as well as the accusing Alessa of being a thief. Doesn't make bullied is confirmed as a piece of what's going on itself less compelling and there's no reason both was after having done as she was asked or before through with the killings and her hesitation led Gillespie house attic. She was trapped. She may have that have been removed on multiple walls after of the words 'kill,' 'help me,' and... 'mom.' An audience of people whom she knows are expectantly waiting Her heart cried out for help, all the while trying the love of her mother the most, it was her mother selfish desire. Eventually Alessa would succumb and drag Alessa somewhere to borrow a 'teeny bit of her entail even after reluctantly agreeing to kill the in whatever Dahlia was planning. Alessa only wanted with her mother as a family. No cults. No murders. of us' sparked an idea in Dahlia's mind. Whatever it. She could do it right now with just her and of the cult. Just two of us. Alessa is taken to the monstrous demon-god begins. But something doesn't the house along with five other neighboring charred past the point of death... but she did not of the home and presumed dead. In reality, she basement's basement. The god had taken root in suffering and inflicting a never-ending nightmare of the cult convened over the swaddled nearly everything is totally fine and going according to the turmoil, Alessa had managed to use her power Hill. With half of her soul lost, the cult could not Due to this the god was prevented from being work now, but Dahlia tried to assuage him, stating goal was still inevitable. &quot;Never fear. The promise use a magical spell to make the other half of the to her. But with such little of her power remaining, take effect. &quot;But that will take time.&quot; Having his Dahlia's actions, Kaufmann took measures to defend compound used to ward off the manifestations in his office as bait so if that he ever were have backups upon backups all while Dahlia would had access to and the only thing that may purge good. Lisa, a nurse working at the hospital at the into remaining in service of this task implied was the sole supplier. Meanwhile, Harry and his road. No one knew where she had come from and decided to adopt the baby. And they named her 'Cheryl.' illness. Later still when Cheryl turned seven, Harry running late into the night. Alessa with her powers the road. Dahlia noticed Alessa slipping out of her two halves reunited and the 'Otherworld' became Metraton around the town to prevent Dahlia's goals to Cheryl's father to track her down and hope nullify Alessa's power before the Talisman was had her complete soul and brought her back to the When the sky is blackened and the air becomes deathly gives way to nothingness. The sirens herald the 'Otherworld'? 'Otherworld' is a term actually coined town. It's being invaded by the 'Otherworld'. By a life.&quot; It's the only time this term is ever used in we'll address later, but the name has stuck around transformations that Silent Hill is now famous for. exactly what it is. &quot;Look, I don't understand it all feels like it's a sort of unreality. &quot;Like some like I was there, but not really. It's all a blur. he begins to think that the whole experience is car crash (and in one ending that's actually true.) Harry remains lucid. He recognizes that this is not *becoming* a nightmare. In Silent Hill 1, there is simply a fictional version of the one you and I 'Otherworld.' They are both equally real in the fact that nightmare itself is stemmed from a real person's normal world as the 'real world' for simplicity. concludes is separate from the invaded real world Cheryl was being held. &quot;But I do know Cheryl is there. the dimension-hopping idea from the film came from. dream. Not a purgatorial place of judgment, or an reality. &quot;Well, what's making this happen?&quot; It is the demonic cult. A mind filled with memories and all World' (unofficially known as the 'Fog World') the games until 'Silent Hill Origins.' We'll address series. In Silent Hill 1, there are no parallel dream leaking out and painting over the real real world while it's active. With Alessa's innate inflicted upon her that had been festering manifest itself into reality. This is supported Chapter 3, 'Manifestation of Delusions' states: like fear, worry, or stress manifest into external some cases been shown to trigger them. However, anyone. Although it's not clear why, adolescents under the conditions of her unwaking nightmare, is pain into energy that has physical effects on the 'Otherworld'. &quot;Strength must overcome petty desire. process isn't intentional but a result of her emotions into physical representations of the she alone possesses, when she uses her power the horrific nightmare follows her out. This is memories of her early life, the creatures take her bedroom show familiar forms, not just of the likely taken from one of the altar paintings. The the floor, or the fairy tales on her bookshelf like Wizard of Oz,' or perhaps even the story of the hero still be killed by the most mundane means just as This seems clear even from the gameplay itself. It the book, 'The Monster Lurks' are actually referring in the amusement part. However, her powers predate severe duress, being made to kill with that power. nightmares are what triggers these effects and the fire. And while I don't like to correlate items book is read just before the fairy tale with the story describes. It would also be odd if this book recipe for developing such powers, but only Alessa was her power, was inflicted upon her. Her power came was chosen to bear 'god' and his nightmare in the is perhaps the most blatant and earliest example physical manifestation of delusions. The method --shooting into its gaping maw--is directly derived he's read it himself as a child implying that this before the game's events and before Alessa was it was her imagination that gave it life. The cry reality Alessa was exposed to making the exact In fact, the fight itself takes place beyond the 'Otherworld' version of that very same boiler room. not moving an inch, finds himself still in the the series. Beasts like these have been directly story, one that she had read at home or in the the nightmare which then manifests into reality. the ritual and before Cheryl had returned to her meet Cheryl. Nothing more. When Cheryl ran into the triggering the first spilling out of the 'Otherworld'. which allows the manifestations to invade reality. lie about when all this happen specifically both claim that this is a recent phenomena. woke up, it was like this.&quot; &quot;I must have gotten But isn't until Harry gets closer to the school grow thicker and thicker. When Alessa's projection is turned to normal. The third time the given a vision of Alessa entering the nearby Harry in a dark version of the hospital. The over time. The dam is breaking and it needs an imperfect radius around Alessa. As time goes physically changing the area it touches with less monsters than the oncoming darkness and all. It behaves kind of like water. When reality weak monsters and maybe some snow or darkness. But And spawns more terrible beasts becoming more Alessa's projection, the conduit of the nightmare, If you'll follow me a little further on this all the nasty stuff of the 'Otherworld.' Alessa is jump out. But when she does, the water splashes onto it with physical effect. The goal would then be Harry may seem to teleport between the nightmare be abused in the series. We see something like is the most difficult to discern and it's in the monsters only to awaken in the diner with Cybil. in the alley aside from, &quot;How do you feel?&quot; &quot;Oh... like I guess.&quot; &quot;Glad to hear it.&quot; Since it's impossible not yet seen the 'Otherworld,' &quot;I have no idea what there are two major possibilities: One, Harry was come. He was pulled from his car and dragged to sense as the diner is not that far from the car. Or actually die. He only passed out, Cybil having only after the 'Otherworld' dissipated. In the a vision or given future knowledge since the itself are accurate to later occurrences. In the healed or else were just not that bad. The 'Otherworld' he could be truly killed or else Cybil would have is deliberately presented as confusing and unclear doubt what is real and what isn't. So ultimately *something* that happened in the alley and it's up seems to be the one who brought Harry to the diner of alleged teleportation Harry seems to have been with an intense headache. Upon closer inspection, 'Otherworld' having dissipated from around him. This special circumstances this makes sense--and we'll be the most contentious. Harry is in normal reality ablaze. There are no sirens and Cybil confirms straight teleportation then? Or being drawn into a game, Harry and the others are physically pulled the final area, but this is actually the second disappears. He's been physically moved to the world dreamlike quality. After this scene, Harry returns very near where he disappeared. This is the largest which is a negligible few feet which appears to story element. The final teleportation, as mentioned Kaufmann, and Cybil into the very heart--or should I epicenter of this imperfect ring of liquidlike the terror? It's obvious, right? Nothing but the very pain, old memories, and horrors both imaginative and anywhere. It's 'Nowhere.' All of the 'Otherworldly' trench of Alessa's mind and the source of what of the game has Harry exploring a paradoxical, memories. The hospital and the store room basement room where she attended school... the operating room Harry finds a screwdriver and a pair of pliers procedure. Because Alessa hadn't been able to are out of date. Comparing the scenes in Nowhere, in the real world we can start putting together a antique shop. The clocks are frozen at different to the other church is missing entirely. None of Dahlia has sold nothing and retained her business from her arrangements with Kaufmann and selling exist behind the 'green lion' when Alessa last saw it, in Nowhere, Harry reaches a room where he sees a altar, the differences being in the paintings hung the nightmare world never seen by Harry before the attic, the hallway with a downward staircase three. These are images from the Gillespie home Now remember the altar here and think about why it But the most prominent fixture in the realm of person who was closest to Alessa. Yes. It's time before meeting Harry was being knocked out... but ended. But because she was virtually the seven years, Alessa remembered her. Alessa's memory of exception among the others. She is both the ghost Alessa's mind. The soul of a normal human woman and both in the dream and be manifested outside of it, place where she died. She isn't free to travel as to talk to Harry when they're both in the dream, can manifest into reality as well but only within When the nightmare is dispelled, Lisa disappears she is gone, she yet lingers in the Nowhere of relationship between Lisa and Alessa. We do know stand her unnatural inability to die despite the have killed her twice over all while dealing with viewed this as the greatest act of kindness begrudgingly. It's commonly thought that Alessa -world', but it's also not likely Alessa had much Lisa was also the first to experience the first Swarms of bugs got into an otherwise sealed off Lisa being unable to turn them off no matter what was leaking into existence with her powers happened if her soul and power returned. Dr. Kaufmann addicted because of this arrangement with Alessa is unknown, but despite her attempts to quit Lisa with no expressed reason to stay except for her reason she would have to stay would be if she her addiction anywhere else except through Alchemilla, over her. She was never threatened with violence PTV both biologically and legally was a powerful end of the arrangement through to the end. Or maybe her then and she can't leave now. Her ghost wanders realization that she's already dead, her body but a diary, the manifestations of her thoughts, the collapsing dream where she sees the target and drags him down... deep into the dying darkness been served. All of this could have been prevented, what she could to stop it. Armed with the knowledge to fight back using the Talisman of Metraton. Talisman would do if it were completed, but Alessa the nightmare would end, or at the very least be her god stopped. Dahlia believed this too as she she resorted to manipulating Harry into stopping you can stop it now.&quot; She lied claiming it was the herself was a demon that only appeared to be a Cheryl. He stopped the Talisman of Metraton just finished, we can only speculate, but the second weaker blur effect similar to the one in the areas that are more permeable to the effects is the freshest we've seen glowing with power dark. Often and shortly after a seal is completed, to the next one. Is this the effect of the seal? To Alessa if she'd finished it? Would she still be there getting her way, to save the father she loved? In nightmare and the girl who dreamt it ended in Okay, here we go. There's been an age-long seven years ago that destroyed the Gillespie home and the instigated it. It has been often debated just how Alessa on fire as part of the ritual to birth the with Dr. Kaufmann in providing a substitute body to while also colluding with police to cover up ritual impulsively, something went wrong and fire setting the house ablaze, the neighborhood the hiddenness of a particular late-game memo. day hotly contested, I will say upfront it doesn't by her full body burns, traumatized, and forced her soul returned. This is undisputed. However, later I want to make sure we have our foundation solid that one of these explanations makes far more the source material, and, in my opinion, makes with the infamous memo, the newspaper from seven memo by investigating two other seemingly nothing has an article clipped out. Harry will say nothing in the game the same newspaper is found in the one Kaufmann was running drugs out of. It reads: Suspicious deaths continue. Like the anti-drug failure of unknown origin.&quot; In Nowhere, in the door find a book on the table that contains the same bunch of different cutout articles similar hospital. This room is the memory of the director's stalled. PTV dealers still at large. Suspicious a narcotics officer dies of a sudden heart failure there others? It's pretty old.&quot; It continues: &quot;Fire body of Alessa Gillespie (7) found in aftermath. Cause of show source as basement of Gillespie home. Blaze boiler. The date of this article on the fire... It's this during your playthrough, it's probably because cannot appear. According to The Cutting Room Floor, trigger it were set incorrectly. The later released memo which means that the developers fixed the treated like any amended or additional content contents of the memo itself, it describes the fire know better. It describes a sequence of events in the findings, and then the conclusion implying singular article. Currently under investigation investigation, they ruled it as originating in the thing. It's commonly believed that this is actually in the police force to feed a false story to the Razor. Why must the story in the newspaper from seven away with a convenient excuse that allowed them to disastrous circumstances. If it's not true, then to burn Alessa ritualistically past the point the god. Dahlia did such a poor job of it, or else only burned down her entire home which included the media necessitating police intervention to a substitute body of an anonymous girl of similar assumes more information than were given? Kaufmann either case to claim that Alessa had died but he of the hospital. And those investigating the fire She's already presumed dead. And Dahlia as the need to produce a substitute to prove to anyone spare charred seven-year-old girl's body that wouldn't than we're given? Lisa claims that everyone people moved in and says she hasn't heard about more recently in a secret bored out hole in the wants to be seen. The cult was smuggling drugs to kill the narcotics officer and the anti-drug and the newspapers all claimed the deaths were both Silent Hill and Brahms police are conducting the deaths. Cybil wouldn't know of it otherwise stalled, they are still actively investigating. cult's pocket. Would these police really be ritualistic burning of a little girl, but not the drug running? Okay, but how would the boiler who's able to create an external energy even force--perhaps a poltergeist due to stress--that keep going. Are boilers ever mentioned in any prominent boiler is shown all the way back in Midwich. to go down to the basement to turn on the boiler tower. Later in the nightmare version of the room only deeper still to hear the beast roar. no fire. Okay, but what if (let's assume) that's just boiler from when she was a student there? Okay, Judging by the decor in Nowhere, we can see the floor. And the boiler is on the basement floor... to so that hypothesis doesn't seem that likely, though right next to the storeroom in the hospital have been somewhere overhead of her sickroom. Not reaching Nowhere, Lisa storms off and Harry wonders It sounds like it's coming from the basement. And like boiling in a machine. And it's specifically the ritual took place in the basement? Well, we see the ritual where the final confrontation basement. We have no other in-game material to be earned and isn't there by default. Would the by... lying to them? The endings of the game are I think it's particularly interesting that room and requires a similar method to unlock accurate. Never mind that the only mention of Lisa briefly mentions Dahlia's kid died in a fire charred skin. If we want to specifically accept the assume the information in the newspaper from since nowhere else indicates that the location we go back in the room with the memory of the of evidence. These are two pictures, one on either image of the god in a sort of triptych had they &quot;The light to the future.&quot; gives Harry the code to to, indeed, progress to the future. The image of the endings, the mother of 'God.' So if this is the right, &quot;The light illuminating the darkness.&quot; must unknown is being illuminated by the light of truth. right at all save for these two memos which must player. And the image itself? A woman, naked and bound the ritual? An impregnation ceremony involving a of a violent piece of phallic imagery. ...but where at Alessa trying to get her to cooperate with the god by using Alessa's power. She hadn't yet decided so we can presume that Dahlia was intending on privy to. When Alessa resists, she says, &quot;Oh, but us. Please understand.&quot; Dahlia doesn't respond to this doesn't need to wait to perform the ritual. &quot;Oh yes, mother's womb, containing the power to create life. right here, right now with Alessa. Just two of us. using Alessa for just her power, Alessa would also the basement and something akin to what we see occurs. Alessa, using her power, resists either fire to catch in the basement. Dahlia leaves her the house while it burns to the ground, yet taking being destroyed. Alessa's soul separates in two as in the blaze. When they recover her body, she's pronounced dead, but in reality held in a room in and are despondent and frustrated. Dahlia does &quot;Everything is going according to plan. No, no. These shall not be broken.&quot; Dahlia then explains their next anymore. &quot;We'll use a magical spell.&quot; &quot;But that will be very weak. Almost nothing.&quot; &quot;But it's not done yet.&quot; our agreement!&quot; But it'll take time, the power would work...! No one is happy with Dahlia here. They had a ritua,l not use Alessa as the vessel herself and Dahlia's demeanor noticeably changed only after the lady' ever since her kid 'died' in a fire and Dahlia The authorities investigate the source of the fire the existence of magical powers or poltergeists must have been the cause of the fire having no mastermind who orchestrated this perfect plan, why could have resisted in the scenario and she had no would just have to accept what was happening. Dahlia tactic was splitting her soul, what was the other? of her soul flee to safety, her body ruined for gets to work immediately on using the Talisman knowledge that her suffering may be eternal, but will never become real again. ...or else Alessa allowed with the god unwillingly, but offered no resistance. evil, not even as her mother brought the flame to did nothing. With all her power, she did nothing For this final section, all of them have answers, but for those that do specifics. For those that don't, I hope you'll still indefinite possibilities that still respect directly referring to those games in detail until start: What is the canon ending? Strictly speaking, ending. Each ending is treated as a possibility from the nightmare that was the past playthrough. ending which has the permanent effect of unlocking depicting events that take place after the game, as a definitive credit sequence where the cast place to step out of the story. However, future that the GOOD or GOOD+ endings are canon. It's due to the fact that Cybil is never seen again in of her death. We'll talk about this point more in question is one I find interesting. Is the scene of the future? Or did it really happen? Did he shop or Cybil being attacked? Or were those just these weren't visions, what are the apparitions in events? Just memories? We also see in a later entry certain characters. I don't have an answer for during the transition into and out of the 'Otherworld'? other character but Harry is is around when it these transitions. Perhaps it is simply a warning it from a wish to protect her adoptive father? Or Alessa's mind remembering the sirens from the fire as it burned down around her? It's also interesting invades reality, or recedes from reality. Never when nightmare itself. Otherwise, I don't know why sirens. headache when being ejected from the 'Otherworld' Hill trope that's commonly misused and associated only experiences it once when he is ejected from accurately, the 'Otherworld' is receding from reality the school, or at the rooftop of the post office? by the killing of a greater monster. Does that make Alessa had just finished a Talisman nearby. Dahlia the hospital earlier. Alessa would have been in the -world' emerges later anyway. Is this the first sign or that the Talisman is failing? What does Harry mean and the apparent result of a magical spell that iI's unclear if Cheryl was compelled to return or but free to ignore the summons. Harry states with By who? Alessa? There's a magical compulsion Dahlia, but we know Harry would have done so anyway. energy that summons Harry to her location. This is for later entries. What did Kaufman want out of embarrassingly long time, but I think I figured Dahlia primarily to benefit from the drug dealing if the cult's god was born? What else could the silence his enemies. Alessa was not a reliable cult's bidding over time and was in emotional it could be manipulated into killing anyone who this is not what he received in the end. He longer profit off of. He adopted this religion the roads out? Just as Alessa's nightmare has an also have a permanent effect on the environment. real people who can be truly killed by monsters. by a similar destructive force? But do the roads we have no evidence to claim that they do. Harry clear indication whether this was because the area unexplored during the course of the story, Considering that the roads shouldn't be restored and with Alessa's death, no more effects from her since straight teleportation doesn't otherwise were returned to the Lakeside Amusement Park, the This is exactly how Harry left the nightmare of its 'Otherworld'-ly iteration, so it's possible everyone disappeared to in Silent Hill? Since this the people of Silent Hill must have gone somewhere... This is a town completely devoid of people and a look at the doctors and nurses of Alchemilla. They this nightmare only to emerge when it manifests Why I'm still alive even though everyone else is in the hospital or does she mean... *everyone*? But like when Alessa's projection emerged from the -folk were pulled in, killed, or turned into monsters. and never return to the series likely because on with Alessa. The game itself makes no direct with aglaophotis. It makes me wonder if Harry had more and nurses? Probably not since Lisa tells us they all those people who were still inside and able ever knowing. I guess it's a tragedy either way. itself as when it's expelled from Alessa's body when the parasite was expelled from Cybil. Also, Alessa's pregnancy with the god doesn't seem to work literal womb considering it's birthed from her back. final confrontation in the BAD ending also has she try to kill him? The god is a parasite taking there somewhere, too. Wait, people turn into monsters?? nightmare can manifest onto the environment, why Not all monsters were once people, of course, but it isn't obvious that she's been turned into her physical transformation being that of profuse have worsened with time. It is possible that the at school or the adults on the street. We have no true, I like to wonder why those who turned into take on a more abstract or animalistic form. in her mind and thus retained their human shape? about in the abstract become deformed humanoid deep in the realm of speculation and we'll dig sure this takes place in the real world? With the Nowhere, yes. It all takes place in the real world Nowhere is a dream produced by a real world mind. exists separately from the 'Otherworld' or as an we have clear indication that Harry realizes that reality itself being turned into the nightmare. Unless he's wrong and this gets retconned later, that is what's being portrayed in Silent Hill 1. stuff seemed to genuinely believe he was still in a military rescue at any time. &quot;A military rescue through the town, we're home free.&quot; While this rescue awareness of another dimension existing, especially We also see in the introductory cut scene that out what's happened at Silent Hill. Considering uniform, and heading in the same direction is Harry of anyone, we can assume she's investigating the This means that Brahms is experiencing a physical be contacted, not simply some folks getting the town functions as normal. The reason why we is because the roads outside of town have been place within about a day or so. Ee also clearly see collapsing nightmare into the foggy streets of neither does Cybil. They're both fully lucid and fog remains. Not to mention that the baby given to and yet is treated as real as Cheryl ever was, does awaken to find her, but physically took her from that exists apart from reality, yes, but it's Alessa's power which stems from in-universe reality. manifestations. It would be odd for a man-made there is a problem here. A great paradox that took is physically inside her own mind? She's bound and must send out a psychic projection of herself I have one idea. The Flauros. Not much attention of Metatron, it appears to be more of a plot device Flauros and what can we observe of it? Dahlia claims account that Dahlia is a manipulative liar, the most that the world is being covered in darkness and also correct in calling it a cage, if not one of brings it close to Alessa and makes a wailing, blue light before swooping down disabling Alessa home... but their home was destroyed. Where do they pieces of their home still exist. Odd that Dahlia is they get there? Dahlia, now back in control of Alessa and is able to enter the nightmare, pulling Harry, by a wailing, mechanical noise and a magical blue inventory. Perhaps it is Harry that is in the Flauros? and keeps Alessa physically trapped inside it, not she could physically exist inside her own mind. puts it to keep Alessa from running rampant for the cult. This would also account for how the is contained and sustained inside the Flauros mind producing the Nowhere place seen at the end have appeared at all. At some point, perhaps as late beginning of the game, Alessa's physical body is the Flauros. Her mind feeds the nightmare and trapped within the wall of this 'cage of peace.' In of the nightmare, Alessa isn't there. Her body moved to? I hope that made some sense. It's not I'm not sure I understand it all myself, but the with later entries so I wanted to bring it up. I'm an interesting concept and considering the Flauros is it might be an interesting point to develop in with powers, or were her powers induced by abuse? know. Alessa certainly was abused before the ritual these powers or were these powers why she was to have these abilities, there doesn't seem to be but it doesn't rule it out altogether. I want this question in a later video. Are you sure the Almost certainly the burning was unintentional hard, definitive proof like a character stating it stance assumes far too many elements that is conflagratory material in their altars and imagery. altars are crenelated by candles, a gentle flame little given to their significance. Yet there is a which fits in well with the medieval imagery representing Alessa also shows the spears behind does not appear here. Why does fire appear in the fire. The blazing body in the school's basement. is the common factor in all these specific cases? we see Alessa in the school boiler room? Yes, it's see Alessa in the other church? Yes, the scene her entering the antique store. Though we can't see of course, we see her hold the rain of fire long that Alessa has control over fire? Is this part of why the Gillespie home caught fire. It wasn't that caused the fire, or manipulated the boiler a ritualistic rite. It's *defilement*. Alessa, who burns the altar. She cannot be seen in the normal Looking at the wall to the left (right on screen), it is written: god is no God, or simply telling God 'no'. Who would would blaspheme at their place of worship. It would god. Someone who has the means and motivation to altar is burned. The corpse in the school boiler behind it before it alights. The spears represent Fire represents Alessa's resistance. It was escape and the ritual to be stalled. It was fire fire that killed Dahlia. To counter of this point, it lightning. Is it transforming Alessa's fire, her Alessa couldn't bring herself to kill her mother opportunity. It's only when the god takes over her effect of the god within her--or without. After before losing her strength and after the god has shown to have no control over the monsters or the stop the fire just as she was able to stop Harry powers include the manipulation of fire. (I love that the fire is a good thing to Alessa. After imagine her not being irrevocably traumatized by means of fighting back, they are still her means of I'll build on this case more in future videos, *sighs* ...The grueling task of dissecting the story is open (and more I'm sure you'll tell me after and solid foundation to build our understanding of to retain before charting a course to the next elements from the mind can become real under there are known rituals to perform it. Three: ability to manifest illusions. And four: A person Yet with all the intricacies of the world-building at its heart all about? On the first screen of tends to create fear for the flesh.&quot; Fear. Yes, it's harm, that much is obvious. It's the deeper fears. Harry fears for his mind and for his existence. fears retribution. Alessa fears what will happen Harry receives the newborn infant from Alessa, child I have with me now? Is it Cheryl...? ...or Alessa? ...or with me? Or is she gone forever? Am I rescuing her? know for sure. The last time he ever saw Cheryl moments before Harry lost control of the car and a chance to tell her how happy she made him. Alessa-- has been criminally remembered as a vengeful those who wronged her, but this couldn't be further desperately crying out for love. She never had closest to her was repulsed by her. Her entire life failed her as a mother, Alessa had every right to all her power to kill others, she could never bring not of her own will, but the god monster within her, was through the fire and her time as Cheryl that and without a second thought chose to love her. He never give her. And it is this love that kept her stop Dahlia from winning, even if she had no one Even if she would never know for sure if she had She knew there was a world that was worth saving world of sinners. Remember Alessa as the noble It's hard to express just how grateful I am for all of you here in the end. I had the idea of making this video 2-ish years ago from the frustrations I had reading the Silent Hill Wiki and through various altercations video would be a simple and quick way to vent that causes me great pain and anxiety. It really just the storytelling that these games use rather interpretations. I put together notes and seriously last year thinking that, yes, I will actually do busy and on top of general health and energy required was overwhelming to the degree that when I was afraid... and I don't know what of. Not so much for looking stupid for making claims counter to with that. Here at the final stages, burning with sweating. And afraid. I don't believe anything really did sprinkle a few shavings of my soul into a lot to me. Part of the hurdle in finishing the the plot points are in Silent Hill 1, the game soul that the other three are making it far less it, the other games just don't make much sense and that have real world consequences in making But now here we are at the end and I'm not tired. Even now I'm not sure if my afterword that I'm scripted. But I can't go until I've thanked those I want to thank SilentHillMedia.net for some for being an invaluable resource for me to cross elements I might have overlooked. (Seriously guys, Wiki. Go to Silent Hill Memories every time if I want to thank you, my audience, but especially particular order to Trinity (AKA Verosika_Mayday 56), axelgripp, ArcaneArdvark, Brasilien_Batata (AKA BB), Tae_Grixis Haley (AKA SilentMinx), Vexcitement, nixandpeace, the biggest thanks in the world ask for. And if you're one of my regulars that don't like you. It's just because I'm stupid and taught me a love for storytelling in the first but in particular for helping me get more on top done by myself. And lastly a thanks to my wife begin, but in regards to this project thank you my heart darkens. Thank you for supporting me for putting up with my impassion ranting when you. Well, that's all from me. Please feel free to here either here in the comments or when I'm live as my body and brain allow me to and I don't discussing next. Anyway this letter has gone on for