Hello everyone and welcome back to my kitchen! If you are going to love today's easy cinnamon and salted caramel sauce! This cake is just an perfect for fall! We're going to start by making a vanilla-cinnamon cheesecake batter, layer the and cinnamon, similar to what you would put inside is baked and cooled, we'll top it off with salted caramel sauce. You're going to love this of ingredients and the printable instructions, and over to my website. Meanwhile, let's make oven to 300deg F, and we'll need a 9-inch springform it's very important to wrap the outside of the will keep the water from seeping in and ruining I kind of overlap my foil and then just pull For our crust, we'll need 18 whole graham And then pulse these until fine crumbs form. And if you wanted to add some extra ground cinnamon to the crust. And unsalted butter, and this is going to And then we'll pulse this until the [Music] And then for this cheesecake, the bottom of the pan, I'm actually going slightly arrange the crumbs with your little glass and gently go around and press Once you have the cheesecake crust ready, you can work on the cheesecake batter next. We'll need so 32-ounces of cream cheese total. And this morning. Going to drop it into my mixing And to the cheese, I'll add one and two teaspoons of vanilla this on medium to low speed until the And it's very important to occasionally stop bowl to ensure that you have all the cream cheese corn starch; 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon; 1/4 And last, we'll need four large eggs. Drop Next, let's make a brown sugar we'll need half a cup of lightly packed and I also like to add a little freshly Mix this all together and that's it. This let's assemble this cheesecake. I'm going to of my graham cracker crust. And it doesn't have And then we're going to grab our brown over the cheesecake batter. And then gently For baking the cheesecake, I recommend using sheet with hot water, and if you have a third or even half an inch of water. And then with foil in the bottom! Gently place it into the moisture is going to help keep the cheesecake roll cheesecake is ready for the oven! It's after which I'm going to turn the oven off and like an inch or two and just let the cheesecake take it out of the oven, remove the just let it sit at room temp for another couple and then place it into the fridge. You want to let set. And then next, I'm going to show you how to going to add a little salted caramel to finish For the cream cheese frosting, cup of unsalted softened butter. and I'm going to beat the butter all by itself To the creamed butter, add in 8 ounces of softened and a/4 teaspoon of salt. Mix this all together. And last, we'll need two to three cups And then mix this together. I'm going to transfer my frosting into two pastry bags - I have a French tip number four and circle. And this is just a measuring cup I Once your cheesecake has set you want to gently loosen the springform pan, serrated knife to gently Let's transfer onto our cake stand. We're going to make little dollops And then I'm going to take my homemade caramel And last, go around and add a little All right! Time to cut into this incredible And I recommend for a clean cut when slicing a And check out this incredible cheesecake on brown sugar cinnamon mixture and this cream cheese icing with the caramel is And I like to add some extra caramel on cheese icing left over, feel free to add And that's it for my cinnamon roll cheesecake! frosting and the caramel sauce on top with just is going to be great for any special occasion! instructions, head on down into the video also going to include a link down in the video I have a separate video for it. I'll also let's dig in and enjoy! This looks so on there along with the cream cheese the swirls of the um the brown sugar Mmhmm! This cake is dangerous! It is ridiculously I love the combination with a tangy, creamy the brown sugar, and that salted caramel on in for a real treat with this incredible cake! Mmhmm! Definitely make sure to add that cream It is a must and it really compliments this hope you enjoy this incredible cheesecake for you so much for watching my latest episode,