[somber blues] [Peter] Good morning guys, and today we have a massive road trip Now the region we're going through due to the high concentration We're gonna get lost on some back roads, meet the locals, ask the questions, and get a better understanding Let's do this. [somber blues] [Peter] So this is the soul -Right in this area. Mostly it's a little small town here. Which way you came, 84? -I came all the way from the coast. -Okay, okay. -You from here? -How is it? Do you love it? -Yeah, I've been here all my life. I'm 65, be 66 next month -Good community? [choir singing] [Peter] All right guys, and it just sort of changed. Like there was almost a defining line. Nice little downtown here, it's cute. &quot;Martin Realty&quot;. Got a nice town hall or whatever that is. Oh, this is really nice. Really well kept. [Driver]Mississippi, [man laughs] -They're time? -So Alabama's much different -Yeah, whole lot different. -We're from Peterman, you see? -Oh, Peterman... My name's Peter. -No. [chuckles] -Made it home. So guys, where can I get lost? -Keep going' that way right there, It's my town, 1900, new town. Okay, we're starting to get into it. Feeling the vibe. Feeling a totally different culture So we got the intel Seeing a lot of trucks up here. I'm guessing that's They can live here, truck the country. You know, with the amount of money I think it's pretty cheap out here. They can probably live a decent life. I mean you're away from home Yeah, I think a lot of these guys When you're in the truck stop outside a lot of these guys come from Do their trucking, come home, refresh Because it's better money So the term Black Belt One is the soil is amazing here. It's great for agriculture. Then it also refers to At first it was and slaves working on the plantations, and then it turned into a place So I believe it's 80%-plus Black in this region we're going through today. But this totally surprises me. This could be the Northeast almost. Rolling hills, trees. I mean it's a little different but I wasn't thinking Selma, this is a historical place. With the marches from here to Montgomery. I mean the whole civil rights movement So back in the past in the 19th century Selma was doing really well as Since then it's population when agriculture started slowing down. I believe almost 40% and over half of those are under 18. Got some beautiful old homes here. Nice old street. This is what happens when your town A lot of these buildings So that main drag but you can see just one street over, this is how it is. So it's like the oxygen has been removed. That shop looks like And then you have St. James Hotel Gas station all barred-in. [train horn blows in the distance] That church had better days. [Peter] Tornado came through when? [woman] January the 12th. -2023? -Yeah. -So it just came right into the church? -It didn't just come it just damaged You know, right now where are we? We're going backwards instead of forward. Because this country was built in error with the wrong principles. The wrong mindset -Okay, what do you mean by that? -What I mean by that is that how long we been out of captivity -'64 was a big year. It's gotten better since, hasn't it? -No, it hasn't. -How so? -From back in '64 it has gotten worse. -How so? -It has gotten worse. I... It has gotten worse, Their mindset is worse. -Americans as a whole -Well, Americans as a whole. And then we dissing ourselves and create social groups You know, that you gonna use to... ...subdue everybody else. It's a form of control. Change of culture. Replacement... people replacement. It's a lot of things still going on If you had people any Blacks, they don't let them in. But let China, if they wanna come in here and come up in the border That's what I'm talking about. You replacing the people that are here. -But about the border, 140 nationalities coming in right now. -Yeah, but we ain't goin' nowhere. Look at this community. -So what do you guys want out here? You want help from the feds, -I don't even think They can't... I mean... If you really want to know the truth that this neighborhood are in the condition that they are in. -Okay, why are they to blame? -When our people, in the '60s, We are people of the light. Do you understand that? All of what you see now is darkness. -You remember it back then? I was in the marches and stuff going -You were there? Wow. -Oh yeah, I was. -How was that? -What I'm trying to tell you See our people was attacked They killed off all the leaders and they were terrorists that was doing it and our people been terrorized here That's part of the curse. -The curse? -Uh-huh, the curse of our people. [Peter] You can see the tornado That's insane. And I'm not sure what's going on here Maybe people don't have because they own them outright. I'm not sure or why haven't the feds stepped in? Like some sort of FEMA money But if we're talking a year ago... Oof. So I hit the rough part of town everything looked fine. That's literally two minutes So this place is really mixed up. Then you got stuff like this decades ago probably [Peter] So the police officer -This my house. -Okay, so the tornado came through. -Your house came out okay, huh? -Well I had two busted windows. -And I was in the tornado. -You were in the tornado? I was right there in my living room. -What is that like? -It wadn't that nice. [Peter chuckles] Wind blowing stuff everywhere. -Okay, so the tornado rips in, -You just get down on the floor? -Get down and pray? -And your neighbors did -See 'cause when it went that house right there but all the rest of them, -No power or nothing. -For 'bout nine days and you couldn't go nowhere and most of the people on this end they stayed there in they houses and everybody else stayed in they houses -What about food? -They brought it around People was bringing stuff -Oh, that's cool. -Most of the houses that are in this area, people own them. -Okay. So do most of the people -No, not most of 'em did. -They didn't? -Okay, that's why -That's why. -And it been like this for a while. -Except this guy did maybe. -Yes. Just started doing that one, bringing it -So the federal government -It came in It wadn't too much. -So what's happening They didn't have insurance, -Where are they now? FEMA gave them this they coming back but I don't think -Okay, so FEMA did give them a home? -Another home? -Until things get right. -'Cause they supposed to be building -You from Selma? -I've been here all of my life. -It's a wonderful place. It's not bad the way people say it is. It ain't bad, and what you make of yourself. -Yeah. -Because you can't move from place You gotta stay. Like me, I've been here since I was 30. I'm 56. -Nice, nice. -So I don't like to be doing -So you believe stay with your community, if things get turbulent don't just leave? -Just don't leave. -There's a lot of There's a few young people still around half of 'em, the ones that here, They don't do a lot of If they do it just be something -There's not much gang stuff? You can get up, and move, You can go wherever. Do whatever. Even the Blacks and the Whites, -She was White. -And she waved. [giggles] They just blend in with us, you know, We don't have no racial thing Even though this town -Oh, yeah. -But it ain't about all that though. It just who you know, -So the racial problems were way worse -Yeah, it was. -Yeah, something like that, uh-huh. -But you think it's gotten better in the on that front. -Uh-huh, it get better with time. That lady over there, That she had adopt Good things come to those who wait. And like since I been here it don't bother me. I tell people you got to pray more harder, in time, it will change. If you pray more harder, God do more things in your life For those Americans watching to fully understand what's going on because there's just so much information. It's such a massive place. So the tornado here, I had no clue of. No understanding of. And when I lived on the West Coast when I'd hear of tornadoes or hurricanes I didn't really think anything of it. You know, it's almost a foreign concept. And then if you're here there hasn't been one for a while So it's really hard to fully grasp but when you get into these communities and see what they're dealing with You're like, &quot;Oh wow, that's rough.&quot; They're rebuilding here still [train horn blows] [Peter] A lot of history? So you remember it in '64, 65? -At that time your parents So you didn't get a chance to see I remember one time He'd tell us there was bears in the woods. So we couldn't go out and play -Oh. -There's a lot of history I think I was in maybe and the kids stole the bus They was crossing the bridge, teenagers got on the bus... I mean the kids got on the bus because we was too little -Oh, wow. -I remember stuff like that. [laughs] -That's amazing. [both ladies laughing] [Peter] Ladies, take care. [Peter] Look at this architecture, [woman] I think my starter locked up. It's either the starter Solenoid's right here, -You got someone helping? -Oh yeah, my 19-year-old son -Oh, cool. Do you live out here in Selma? -Yeah, I live up in Valley Grande. -Oh cool, how is it? -It's good. -You love it? -So that tornado -It was south of here. -Did the feds come out -Yeah, FEMA came. The other organizations... -Okay. -...came in and are helping rebuild. We're still in the process of rebuilding. -Still doing it? -Where you from, man? -Florida. I could tell you're not from here. -Why? How can you tell? -'Cause you were talking about that was almost a year ago. -Yeah, it's crazy all the homes -Some of them because they were damaged so bad. [somber blues] Socioeconomics is so mixed out here. So you have some nice stuff, I mean Selma, those couple neighborhoods were pretty hard-hitting but you know, I didn't think the country roads You never know until you go. It's so wild how things just snap That old home, run down gas station... New gas station. Baptist church. And they love their old pickups. I see these all over the place. I gotta say the Black Belt today looks I mean if I'm gonna compare to Appalachia, there are parts of Appalachia Greensboro's got a few empty store fronts but the town looks pretty good I don't know if this is an Alabama thing but do people not [chuckling] go outside? It's a bit chilly, it's 57 degrees out, but all of these towns seem very quiet. Like... Where is everyone? [Peter] What's going on in Greensboro? -Nothing, for real. -[Peter] Not much happening out here? -Where do you guys all go, Tuscaloosa? -That place is happening, huh? -It is. [both chuckling] [Peter] Take care, ma'am. [Peter] Guys, they make you gamble Is that the story? [man] No, we want to gamble, -Thank you for your service, sir, Vietnam. -You guys did some tough work out there. A lot of folks or what we had to go through. -They don't give you the recognition? -They have no idea, huh? If you Black back then. -But how 'bout now? -In some places it's a little better It ain't like the old days, no. -How long were you over there -11 months, 23 days. -That was back in the '60s -Were you drafted? -You were drafted, wow. What was it like? It was rough. [laughs] -I don't even like to talk about it. Well thank you for your service, sir. -Anytime. [woman laughing] [Peter] So in Greenboro, no barbecue? -No Barbecue. -Selma, no barbecue? -They don't have any barbecue in Selma? -One of those places got hit -Okay. -So where do I go? -Tuscaloosa. They have two or three, That's gonna be the closest. -That's the closest barbecue? Oh, and Demopolis has a bunch of 'em. -Okay, Tuscaloosa -Yes. They have Dreamland -[man] Full moon. [Peter] So that's what, 30 miles? [woman] About 40 miles. Tuscaloosa's about 40 miles from here. -About 45 minute drive. -All right. All right guys, just got into Tuscaloosa. Here we have a pulled pork sandwich Ran out of time today So I just went Mmm. That's good. Mmm. Just checked into the hotel room. That was a long day of driving. Much longer than I thought it would be. I thought we'd get into Tuscaloosa Unfortunately, no. Beautiful looking city though, Some final thoughts from today, firstly, I thought the countryside It was actually quite pretty. Rolling hills, tree lined roads, nice fields. Some of the neighborhoods you know, looked a bit blown out. Really in a bad place. Especially where that tornado I didn't expect to see but I also didn't expect to see and really nice properties, and I don't know... I thought it would be... You know, because I did some reading and it's one of the poorer regions So therefore I though, hmm, there probably won't be much charm Some of those towns Some better than others and I didn't roll the camera 'Cause it was getting It was all day. I think we left at 9:00 in the morning So unfortunately didn't meet more people. That always makes these journeys cooler we got some good local insight. Which is always interesting. All right guys, I have a link down below, playlist link. You can see all the videos. Really fascinating part of the country. Thanks for coming along on that journey. Until the next one. [somber blues]