Oh well hello there, [VIEWER_NAME]. My goodness [VIEWER_NAME], your weapons are bad aren't they? Hey everyone, [VIEWER_NAME] and their trash weapons need our help. Comment down below some fun So if you say Royal Guards Claymore I will banish you to the gap between dimensions. I'm gonna show you some And you can, as long as you repair them. Later on I will show you the optimal way way to get the pristine weapons you want. Let's go! Stal enemies. They're not hard to The textbook definition of a nuisance. But fear not. Behold! A stick! Dazzle fruit instantly kill all stal enemies around WASTFUL! Or you can keep one of these babies on you. &quot;Erm, actually Kleric, Forest Dweller weapons are Shut it nerd. Unequip your weapon, drop the Just for that, go make a puffshroom one as well. Can you believe it? We're so close to We had and lost it twice because YouTube has Can you do me a favor and check if that's you? Thanks. Now we need a tool for breaking ore deposits. What do you do? Just look for a Stop it, James! Go finish your homework. Ore deposits can be broken in one hit simply It takes 25 or more attack power for a two-handed weapon, 40 or more attack for a Spears are faster, but they are stabby, so Let's go with a one-handed weapon. We want high durability and Put a silver Lizalfos tail on it, and bam! A long-ranged weapon that's good for mining too. Get that trash outta here! Shields are the best mining tools! A shield with shield bash and shatter weapon level Except those blue rocks, but that's Yunobo's job. With a hitbox on them, they'll Parry and press up on the D-pad at the same time. Then drop a bomb for an instant It's good for combat, and it looks cool. Here's the shield variations I like the most. Hylian Shield for its comfy 800 durability, Shard of Light Dragon Spike because it both Dragon Spikes are terrible for shield surfing though. Lynel Mace Horn because it Silver Lynel Saber Horn, it's Just not for stone ones. Or a minecart fused to a savage Lynel shield. Great for mining and shield surfing. Just bad with durability. Get these trash variations outta here! I found the new best variation. Shard of Dinral Spike on the Hylian Shield. It's the Swiss Army Knife of Shields. It mines, it breaks boxes, it It's a good fire starter. Boom! Instant explosions. Do you miss Revali's Gale? Use the drop parry inputs. Drop a spicy pepper or sunshroom for an instant updraft. Drop wood for an instant campfire. If you're standing in grass, Or, if you're carrying a wooden You can also use an Igneo Talus Heart. It actually does more damage. I believe it is important for you This uses the &quot;Pow Hammer&quot; subtype. Put a mushroom, a spring, or a Then use instant spin attacks for maximum efficiency. Octoballoons also give weapons Also, seal plushies give the most attack power, but springs don't burn. So that might be the most Or we can make the Icy &quot;F___ OFF&quot; stick. Fuse a non-blunt ice material to a feathered weapon. It won't send them as far away, It's additionally good if you hate swimming. Hey Kleric, why is there a Heh. I'll never tell. I always thought the slower stamina loss But this changed my mind. Introducing the Lawn Mower. Mow the grass on your lawn in seconds! Pesky bushes, no problem. Trees? Gone. Ore deposits? Obliterated. The forces of evil? SMOTE. And you know how usually when you fuse a suddenly break off without warning? Because the Biggoron Sword has at least it'll stay on for the duration of the entire weapon. Therefore it's just as reliable as Initially I had used the Royal Halberd, weapons when fused onto things. But I later learned that they do not. They give the same amount of extra range. Obvious to everyone, you need a shield-surfing shield. What is less obvious is your options. Using the Hylian shield as a base would else and can't dupe it or don't want to. So of course, just use the WRONG! We, of course, must prioritize that it can be repaired. Get these out of here! But Kleric, you CAN repair those if you something that can be repaired by Rock Pelison and detach it, then NO! That is incredibly not worth it! The next best shield for It has the least amount of friction of However, the important part is that it has meaning it loses durability Doing math or whatever, it essentially has With that in mind, now you just gotta That's what it is called in the game files. There's also three special minecarts that The one from Minecart Land, it has special red paint on it. And the Rock Pillow Minecarts, owned by Dugby and Mota. These two disappear after their quests. We need to have them! &quot;Did you ever get collector's anxiety?&quot; But I don't know how yet, so moving on. Sneak Strike Sword! Did you get your Forest Dweller Puffshroom Weapon? Well now you need this to compliment it. This is the &quot;I don't want Sneak strikes with Eightfold Blades do 16x damage. It'll need 75 or more attack to one-shot Ignoring modifiers and clothing slash food Lynel Saber Horn. And that still which are a pretty rare So this is satisfying enough as it is, a single piece of clothing with attack up on it. But I'm not happy. This is two I'll tell you what. All you and evil spirit from beyond lookin' Your boner proficiency will push it to can be hit with sneak strikes, and it is Now it's a solid tool to have. BEE STICK! Now, you may think this one sucks, And you're right, but there is If you spawn in some bees, and then They exist for as long as you do not perceive them. They, uh, won't attack any enemies or anything either. But construct heads will try to target them, and Basically, if you can quickly turn it'll do damage more Bees can help with this! If you want to know precisely why and how, If you want to just try it, here's a simple build. You can find cages at the enemy Auto-build it, get beneath it before it drops, hide The bees usually can't get you in the Since we are close to the bees, So just parry with your new best Wait a second. Then hit it with the bee stick to If you want to experiment balloons to prevent them Do with this information what you must. Also, here's a crap ton of research on I sure didn't! Link to that also in the description. Whoa, hey, why not like like the video? Haha! Get it? Becau- A Boomerang! You should have one, because they're fun. We got the Ice Runner, a giant We got the Forest Fire, a boomerang We got the Boomerang 2, a giant It's a good wide-range boomerang, which can hit Throwing a boomerang does 1.5x Can you beat my day one record of Eightfold Longblades are also fun! This wind beam thing wasn't fun in Breath of the Wild, because the wind cleaver's sheath was ugly. And the beam did a low amount of set damage. But now the wind beam can be hot, icy, shocky! Muddle Bud-y! And it shares the attack power of the weapon. It's possibly one of the best ways to deal I'm recording this section while sleep deprived. A reusable hoverstone weapon. I never used hoverstones Update I do use it a lot now. I actually really like this one. Throw it low and create an easy Throw it high and have some Use it as shelter for a campfire. Or use it for Addison's signs. And when you're done, drop it down and refuse it. No durability lost. It's just plain old useful and doesn't cost any resources. I like that. Don't use it in Shrines. Or get it too close to Gleeoks and Lynels. If you're still collecting Korok seeds, Honestly, I might prefer to just solve them normally. I ran out of shrines to do and It's not hard though. The missing rock is But if you insist on cheesing it, Flat ones, round ones, brown ones, tan ones. It's most efficient to put it on a But shields need to carry more of all of this utility. I say put it on a shield. Then you just drop the shield in the right Or, unsheathe a one-handed weapon and then crouch down in the right spot. It's about time I recommend I'll give you a sword, a spear, and a claymore. For the sword, you should get a Normally when flurry rushing with an ice before running out of juice. But because the Gleeok Horns have Flurry rushing with royal weapons does ice does three times damage. Flurry rushing an enemy that can be any modifiers or attack up buffs. That's instant death for all enemies that can be frozen. And for those that can't, it's still a solid weapon. For the spear, I recommend the And you might ask, &quot;Why the And I'll let you choose. You can have the and higher damage on Frox' and Or you can have 4 extra damage. It's up to you, it's just personal preference. Since we're here with a Zora weapon, you &quot;Kleric, how do I get wet FAST?&quot; I'm glad you asked. The fastest way I know is to attack, fruit or a Chuchu jelly. When you're in spears, since hitting an enemy puts a cooldown press D-pad up, let go of Y, and then Side note, I didn't know that They didn't in Breath of the Wild, but they sure do now. Sidon can also make you wet, But have fun chasing him for that. And yes, I know you can whistle to have him come to you. But his legs are stubby and it's still inconvenient. &quot;Hey guys, it's me, Like-Like! I can't Haha! Do you have any pets you Also, each piece of the froggy set secretly increases the duration of your wetness. Good to know!! BONUS TIP!! Is this you in the quick-menu? Sometimes you'd like to use a specific it to be early in the list when Pull out your bow. D-pad up. Sort by Then spam D-pad up until it is Hi, I'm Bonus Tip, and I approve this message. And I guess, as a final weapon suggestion, A Royal Guards claymore with one If you didn't know because you attacking while on a Lynel's back &quot;last hit&quot; can be used over and Fuse your Silver Lynel then start smashing it into the Then, only smack it into the ground two You get 2x damage from the another 2x damage another 1.5x damage if you eat a three attack up food, and since this isn't a weapon we aim to repair, we might as well get that plus ten attack modifier to keep. And if you're feeling ugly, put a Evil Spirit armor set for you can kill a Silver Lynel Just try to avoid spamming Y after the killing blow, or else you might jump attack the ground and break it. The best versions of these weapons use pristine of how to get what you could want, let me First, go break a decayed version of whatever If you're unsure, go find and break one anyway. Check the description for Switch the view to the depths, search &quot;MinusFieldGhost&quot;, then whatever pristine weapon you want in quotation marks. Let's say an Eightfold Blade. Then, you'll see all the one-handed weapon ghost Go to each one of these on the map until you find one. You should make it a habit to pick This way, they can re-roll from their loot table Otherwise, they'll just always Unless you have a save you can load And now that you have the best weapons Turn off your sages! Sibajitak Shrine! Beep bop boop beep bidoop. There's another Octorok over Drop your thing a medium distance After they suck it up, let Don't wait for them to spit it back out. Don't wait for the clean effect. That's not optimal! Pick up your equipment and move on to the next one. The bow is a fine way to hit them, but it consumes an arrow and durability, and you need to make sure not to or else they'll hide, and that's a time loss! Or you can just whack them with your Igneo Talus Shield. It costs one durability, but But if you have it, just use the earthquake technique. You can hold it down and or cancel it with B if you need to. And it costs you nothing. 2 minutes and 43 seconds. New personal best. Oops, all out of Octoroks? Teleport to Sikutamak Lightroot by the Akkala House of Bones. Ascend here and break these rocks to get inside. Shoot the next set of rocks with 5 Boom! Panic Blood Moon. All the Octoroks are back. This is best done with a five shot require you to use bullet time for If you broke most or all of these they'll likely require more gems to These rocks right here required 15 gems, Search &quot;Auto G*&quot; in the Tears of the Kingdom And if you find some that cause panic blood And with that, I have imparted my knowledge upon you, [VIEWER_NAME]. Now go forth. Go forth with the strongest weapons.