Hypixel HELPER rank used to be one of with the rank itself standing amongst being a priceless possession owned by only the in the community, but fast forwarding to today removal back in 2021, which caused one has ever seen... But it's not just HELPERs, 3 original staff ranks have been removed in So, what happened? we'll be going through everything and what the future holds for not only Hypixel Whilst not much is known about the Hypixel is over a decade old, what we which had some simple requirements having at least VIP rank on the server and HELPERs were tasked for the most part with concerns they might have on Hypixel in-game or moderation and player reports, the usual you'd It wouldn't be the craziest thing to find a HELPER sitting there answering questions, the same thing could be said about MOD was a special rank on Hypixel, as it just... Get directly. To get MODERATOR rank you and this is a process which could take It was a highly valued rank, and to than the ADMIN rank just for the fact While you would see MODs in-game their job was a little bit different to HELPERs, as MODs usually worked behind the scenes on by dealing with bugs and quality assurance, It should be noted that MODs were split so it wasn't like every MOD was doing some MODERATORs would just be really hard to their messages open - it's just because their job This is the same with ADMINs today, each server and some ADMIN ranks can't they're just put under the same label in game take for example the BUILD TEAM and BUILD TEAM+ meaning Hypixel's build team has the Many MODs and ADMINs not interacting with as HELPERs filled in that position but also gave a sense of community to staff contact - but also by just being HELPER and MOD videos on YouTube would rack up making the ranks as notorious as the making their careers or having their most At this point you should have gained and engraved in the community both HELPERs the answer's just a little complicated. Also, do you see what that says behind me? You should definitely do what that says. Most people tend to say that the thing that or GMs for short. GAME MASTERs are basically the newer and more updated version of the MOD There's a lot less GMs compared to Each GM is expected to work at least 20 GAME MASTERs are paid, unlike MODs and Now, with all these things in mind, how come everyone says GAME MASTERs Well, that's because Hypixel made the decision to of GAME MASTERs, which at the time was honestly made - and it also happens to be one of the GAME MASTERs were first announced back reception was positive over time as paying MASTERs seemed like a great idea... Although On May 31st of that same year, a post announcing that GAME MASTERs will which was not received as well since the requirements for GAME MASTERs was There was no official way to reply to the Hypixel reactions, and the one time a Hypixel staff member reply, they got ratio'd on their own website and The choice to remove HELPERs and MODs led Hypixel to show some numbers over time showing that their moderation was improving... at the best state it's ever been in, Hypixel consistently works on improving actual staff team who is contractually obligated want - moderation improved drastically. Hypixel began to work with machine learning Build Battle, and has also introduced lets staff work at a much faster pace than usual Despite this, the backlash of Hypixel so Hypixel also happened to give [MVP++] rank as a thank you, which which seemed to help lower the backlash of the Hypixel has most definitely improved but what made HELPERs and MODs special was how could easily have a staff member watch them and anyone could ask staff anything in a lobby or you can make a support ticket or contact staff but it's really a luxury now, and that sense of So, just to recap, GAME MASTERs completed MODs couldn't, but they didn't quite replace today's Hypixel... The Hypixel with This leads me back to an idea I've seen for Hypixel to bring back volunteer staff members, while keeping GAME MASTERs, which is what I used to be a fan of this idea... But as I can say that that... Was a mistake. I'm not really one to speak on subjects like punished in the real world by losing their job if did with no real repercussions, which would at So, all in all maybe GAME MASTERs &quot;NICE&quot; by Cochise, remixed by keltsu.