Transcriber: Marta Gysel Navy SEAL divers are the best But they have a problem that limits their ability Our research focused and it led to an unexpected for neurological diseases and cancer. The problem results that the Navy SEAL divers use, including the oxygen rebreather. The advantage of the rebreather so it's very quiet and helps the SEAL The disadvantage that the high levels of oxygen and the pressure causes a potential for a seizure. These seizures occur and there is no effective So the question we ask is and how can we prevent them. To answer this question required funding from the Office of Naval Research to develop a microscope that was installed or a high-pressure chamber. This chamber could simulate and the pressure Using this technology we demonstrated when subjected to high pressure are overstimulated. The overstimulation of the brain from the high oxygen and pressure causes a decrease When this happens, it causes the potential for a seizure. These oxygen seizures occur and there is no effective way These drug resistant seizures are similar to epilepsy patients that have drug resistant seizures, and in the case of patients they can use a special diet One example of the patient Mike used a variety of antiseizure and the medication caused and was not able to control his seizures. So, due to the severe side effects Mike stopped and when he did it, he saw an increase in his seizure frequency. At about this time Mike discovered there was is a dietary intervention, that he could use to control his seizures. And when he did it, in his seizure frequency. I'm happy to say that Mike for 5 years now, and he's been managing his epilepsy for 5 years without medication. So what is the ketogenic diet? Compared to a normal diet, the ketogenic diet and it's very high in fat. People have used the diet for years to help them regulate their body weight, reduce their body weight, and control or reduce But most importantly, the ketogenic diet is proven when drugs fail. No organization has done more about therapeutic potential than The Charlie Foundation started by Hollywood producer Jim's son Charlie They were so severe and no amount of drugs could help him. So Jim looked into alternative approaches to manage his son's seizures. And with his research he discovered that the ketogenic diet was being used at Johns Hopkins Hospital, so it was a treatment that was used specifically for pediatric epilepsy. So Jim took Charlie and they worked pretty closely and within a short amount of time Charlie's seizures were under control. And Charlie was actually at Johns Hopkins Hospital with the use of the ketogenic diet. So Charlie is actually off the diet and he remains seizure-free. The ketogenic diet is effective for a variety of neurological disorders including Glucose Transporter Children with this disorder lack the ability to transport So their brains are literally and this causes a potential for seizures. So it's known that, you know, the brain can use glucose but it can readily adapt So in this way the brain So it uses glucose as the primary fuel but during periods the brain can readily adapt to using this alternative fuel source. So we are exploiting by developing ketone supplements for oxygen seizures. So the advantage that you can circumvent that's required to elevate and sustain blood levels of ketones. There are many therapeutic because nearly all healthy cells in a body can use ketones for fuel Surprisingly, cancer cells from using glucose for fuel So, in a way, cancer cells are like They use large amounts of glucose much more than healthy cells, and they lack this ability to an alternative fuel source. So we can say that &quot;sugar addiction&quot; is really the Achilles heel This observation inspired me in the lab, and I asked a question, I wondered, why very little attention to exploit this weakness of cancer cells. So, it turns out that the sugar addiction was actually observed over 80 years ago So, Otto Warburg did experiments, he won a Nobel prize demonstrating that [cancer] cells and the damage in their metabolism results in high amounts of sugar uptake. More recently, Thomas Seyfried has been a pioneer, really, and proving that cancer In Tom's experiments, he demonstrated that there is a specific, metabolic defect of cancer cells and that we can target that with a variety of non-toxic Oncologists target this weakness which is excess glucose consumption, with something called a FGD-PET Scan. The PET Scan actually shows the excess consumption relative to the healthy tissues So this allows for the imaging that oncologists use. But this information really isn't used to exploit the cancer The excess glucose consumption allows them to thrive and proliferate in a low oxygen environment. Another interesting observation is that high pressures of oxygen are actually damaging to cancer cells. We've demonstrated that when high levels of oxygen that they overproduce and these are damaging At high magnification we can observe bumps on the surface of the membrane that are indicative of membrane damage. What's most interesting is that damaged the cancer cells was non-toxic to the healthy brain cells. These observations inspired us to test the combination of the ketogenic diet in a mouse model of metastatic cancer. The glowing regions on the screen, show the growth and the spread of metastatic cancer cells. This study demonstrated of a new, non-toxic, alternative approach to cancer management. So what started out and then led to a promising for the oxygen seizures in the form of ketone supplements ultimately led us down a path to this unexpected discovery. So the question is, can we manage cancer I believe that we can. And I've been inspired by a number of seizure patients that have used these alternative methods to manage their incurable diseases. Future treatments and prevention may fall back on the ancient when he said, &quot;Let food be thy medicine.&quot; Thank you. (Applause)