and again Hello everyone, good day to all viewers And of course to the subscribers of the channel Well, what do we have today, Wednesday, November 27, 2024, on the calendar on the clock, 10 o'clock in the morning, I'm going with you again to the forest. Let's go to that forest. winter fishes. Last year I found flamolina, man's ear and cherries, mushrooms, well, there were few chances for mushrooms because there were a few it's cold, but anything can happen. Maybe something will get somewhere. We now have a two-hour power outage every day for two hours, so there is good news. We will now go more often. And how often will we probably go every day? There are two hours. I'm in the workshop. I don't have what to do without light, I have work to do, so we will continue to go for walks. So, I invite everyone to join us and Haida for a wonderful, still late autumn, because there are only 3-4 days left until winter. So, that's all. as always, everyone, have a good time. And we're taking this route. Now, from this edge of the forest, we'll go all the way around the corner. We'll see what's going on here. I guess we won't go any further, because we won't have enough time. I think in two hours we'll be here. There is a village a few meters away. You see. I crossed over here and immediately into the forest. Well, everyone rushed to look for mushrooms and 10 minutes of walking and we are already with you. At the entrance to the forest, there is still quite a lot of snow on the road in the forest, well, three days ago there was much more snow, it fell a lot, but it melted, it left because of the heat from the League, there is little left in the forest, there is still a little along the shores, there is almost no way there, I almost stepped everywhere, it is muddy, it is difficult to walk, but we are going, maybe we will find something. This year is the first time for me it means on a winter mushroom picking trip in this forest, in the summer we used to go there, up there, pick porcini mushrooms, there, here, here, downhill. but last season , in the winter, I found winter mushrooms around here, and now we will go and see what is happening here today, well, on the way, here is such a meeting, I don't know what kind of mushrooms they are, but they have already died immediately At the entrance to the forest Well, we continue here we are looking straight ahead, they may be on stumps, they may be on trees I hope we will find something Hyde Friends on a search in the forest, it's nice and fresh It's quiet, you can only hear how they saw Somewhere far away They are buzzing that they are cutting down the forest, but there is no sound anywhere, not even a bird is singing. It is sad, sad in the forest. Well, it is winter. Well, we are looking for the first mushrooms on a stump. These are the ones. Let's go. This is the channel where water flows here in the spring. There is a source up there approximately four kilometers, 3-4 km up. Well, it is there it dried up and went underground for some reason and flows here only in the spring, when it rains or a lot of snow melts, then it goes all the way to the river. Once upon a time, this source flowed, or rather, water from that source flowed here and there, and got into our local river, but for more than 15 years, probably -18 this kind of disaster does not flow underground and everything disappears for some reason. And we go here and here they hit us. These are these mushrooms, the spectators look so cool from under the snow. Well, I don't know what mushroom, I didn't come for these , but they are beautiful . And you and I. I wanted to say glysnyk. We used to call it that, but it has been a long time. There is no water. The last time, in my opinion, was the addition two or three years ago. It was a bit rainy in the summer, there was a flood, and then There were some very huge old willows, I don't know how old they are, they are probably more than 100 years old, probably more in the girth of the stem, it is somewhere 12 m 40 m in diameter. Look how powerful it is, in general, a powerful one. Well, so far, I don't see any seeds of chlamolin. I don't see anything either, but I hope so. that we'll find something else, let's move on. Such beauty on the tree there are mushroom pickers, I can see for myself that this mushroom is being collected. I don't know what it's for. Well, who knows Take it, write in the comments who takes it for what, and there may be some fungus sticking out far, far away, I don't know what it is, but I'll pull it out, it looks like a mushroom, but it's not, I don't know what it is, but look how fresh and beautiful it is in general, there is nothing for him, as if there was no frost and there was no snow the frost was not strong, maybe 3-4 games, there was no more snow. The snow was good, maybe 20 centimeters. It was three days ago, but it melted . these are mushrooms, but no, I came closer, and these are old rain boots, or what are they still peeking in here ? one of them stands out from them, and there is another one peeking in, we have already met a few of them, and behind them I noticed This is what we have And this is us, the audience, oh old girl, you see, the old girl is completely frozen Well, of course, I won't take her for what brothers here on the tree, here are the same ones again, well, we go on, we go on, the search continues, we have been walking for 15-20 minutes. Well, so far. It's not fun. I don't see the audience. I don't know why. last season, I already found them somewhere in these places. Well, we still get them. These are the mushrooms on the tree. They are young. Well, I'll show you one more right away. I don't see flamolin for some reason at all. Well, nothing. Maybe we'll find it somewhere else. Let's go on , go on, go on. I noticed there on a stump there are only mushrooms and here Look how many more mushrooms you see, look at three there, look at one more, and there, look at how many are on the water, here, and this one is hiding at all young ones can be taken boldly beauty look young healthy ones here there are still some of them still in the forest oh they are still so healthy you see Well, there is no such thing but these are still good hard hats, at least the caps are healthy here some are still missing, in my opinion they were either mushrooms or mulberries, gray and pink, it's just in this state. Well, let's move on. Oh, and finally we get at least some winter mushrooms, the first friends we have today. Here are these wonderful Judah's ears Oh, well, let's take these , let's take these, look how beautiful three three are. Well, that's already something, let's go further, the seam is not much, just a few steps, again, a stump, and again. Here are such mushrooms, well, quite often, we come across them today, in my opinion, for the third or fourth time. Well, it seems to me that I did not come across these last winter in the winter. These are the ones. Well, I don't know the name. Who knows under the video? Please write. We continue to search. I go further and further. See what happens Well, how can I not take these, I'm guaranteed to take such dark, dark, late-autumn Openkas, you see, look at how beautiful they are. Yes, there are still Opana. And who knows how many of them are still there, there are probably somewhere around here. Oh, and again, this one on the humped leg, look at the delicacy, there are four of them, well, there are us. we will take away, we will not leave pretty young ones, we will put them in the basket, now I will cut the legs, I will take some hats, we will go on, we will walk a few steps and we will be gone from under the tree, another fungus is peeking out, it's not clear, Opa, Opa, Opa, the audience is in such good condition, dry, beautiful, didn't collect water, hid from the snow. I didn't notice it from the side . one is healthy, you see how many pine trees are left in the forest and the animals do not eat them, as far as I have noticed, the animals do not want mushrooms to eat What are the fields full of all around? eat a lot of everything, why do they need mushrooms to eat, so they disappear? Well, I will take a couple in the basket again, young lady, go on again, young lady, look, beautiful, beautiful, in general, November 27, 2024, friends, they are wet, wet from snow, and so completely healthy, completely healthy mushrooms, well, one thing does not please me . I used to collect them the season before last . I used to collect them here, but today something is not fun and we got mushrooms here on the trees . look cool cool in principle I didn't come for that But I still have hope o look again look how young they are and they are growing see they are growing now it would be warmer, maybe we would still climb o look at what hats I don't want to pull out the knife once more so I tear it off like this so and so the situation is now in the forest still in such dips I Mah because we are now falling between two humps That's where the hump is and this is where the hump went we are in pit and here in the pit it is warm and the mushrooms are here for themselves As you can see, they are still quite comfortable, they feel like this, and we can notice the mushrooms again, friends. We will collect ordinary mushrooms of autumn and let's go home from all that, I understood so well, look at the cramp peeking out, young, cool, wet with a flash, I tear off the legs because the legs are very hard, freaky hats, the hats will immediately break off. the girl is just perfect. It's cool, they're not frozen or anything. They got a little water because it's snowing, but it's nothing, so we're moving on, so far, nothing I didn't see it for a long time. I walked for maybe two minutes before I turned it off and here I found a circle of obana. Here I found how many mushrooms it is something and all of them are still like this oh please very simple super clean beautiful oh Look at this circle it is normal this is a late autumn mushroom they grow with such dark scales late in November, it snowed. I didn't walk for three days, oh, it crumbled completely. Oh, they grew under the snow. Oh, they grew for themselves, and look how beautiful they are. the hats are a little snow and nothing at home, we will wash them at home, the hats are firm and healthy. Oh, you see, they don't even bend, it's a beauty, you can see it on our channel. Well, what do we have? It's like this, little boy , he broke his legs, I don't want to pull the knife back every time, but the result is good. Wasn't it stupid, let's go more Well, finally, finally, we walked around these places for more than half an hour and I found the first flamulins, friends, there are not many, but such a small one korchyk, there are a few more of mine. Oh, there are a few more young ones. I 'm taking them. Who knows if I'll find at least a couple of things? Oh, I interrupted the call. I have to answer because of work, and right there on the side , immediately look at what two absolutely young girls are here. grow and grow Where do they grow until the New Year they think it grows What is not clear well cool let's go on yes friends let's go on I'm not sure for sure or it's a leaf I got so red there. Or maybe the lights lit up our hiking mushrooms, they are flamolins and here they are so beautiful, somewhere there they are peeking in, he said that they should be here, look, they are here, look who are peeking in here, Opa, too, I don't buy hats, the legs are hard, then at home, throw them away right away I'm cutting it off, look here, young lady, yes, let them stay. Well, to be honest, I counted a little on a better result on Flamulin, but thank you for here we still have a yellow ear, a young mushroom, we will take it to the pile and the window looks in there again. It is frozen, but the cap is hard and beautiful, we take it, we go on, beauty, you can see all the fish in the pile, winter and autumn ones are still growing, beauty passed quite a bit right on the path, on the passage, I don't know, for sure, some kind the game was going or what do we come across ? Next, they grabbed half a basket, beauty, look further, further, further, there is more, Opa, further, it's not very good. We take this one, we go further . We go further, friends. there are others that we will probably take, look again, young ones , younger ones, here, some worms are very wet, and we will not take this very wet one, and there I noticed across the street But such hats are huge, I don't know if we'll take them, but Kosh is so healthy, look how much we got wet, we all got very cold. Let's take the ones where the hat is hard. Well, there's still something to choose from. There's quite a lot. there is beauty beauty So now we have to pass the failure so what kind of failure are we excluding the failure see What other fungus is this one this one tinder is still healthy Are we lucky to go again lucky viewers, we still have flamulina, this beauty is still here. Here is such a twig, we will tear it off nicely, we will take the whole bunch, these are young, cool beauties, well, there is not much of them on this side. Well, they may still be only the beginning of the beginning of winter, so they may be later, they may only begin here in in some places they appear sooner, in others later, so I can see a few on the other side of the hike. So we will definitely come here one of these days and have a look. This is such beauty, this is what we have basket we continue on we go on I see more flamulins on the way But I came closer they are still so very very young oh Let them stay from afar they looked a little with the bigger ones, we go further straight along the course, such a hefty, hefty Linden, which is also probably more than 100 years old, well, a very healthy stick with diameters somewhere here, it has Well, I don't know, about 2 m, probably very huge, the trunk caught my attention, and in the trunk, here are how many cinders rotted, we couldn't wait you see, they rotted, they didn't wait, it would have been two days sooner, they would have been here again, they would have been taken, and they are not. Well, she is huge, huge, I don't even know how to convey it, now I will show you, the slippers, you breathe, the diameter is 2 m , they are definitely powerful. Hello, the audience. This is just something. Look at her, agro-copper, powerful, this is a trunk with a diameter of 2 m, guaranteed, maybe even more beauty. I almost passed there on the trunk, there are such beautiful mushrooms. Oh, how to get to them, it's interesting, look how beautiful they are there flamolins, you see the beauty, I guess we climbed under the stick Oh, I almost dropped my eyes in the snow Here you have a Jackpot for the finals, here's another beauty You see, after all, we didn't go many of them, but we found some young ones, Oops, I'm already cutting them at home I'm not going to pull out the knife, look, it's good, it's good, I can still see it there, I need to leave now. There are still some young ones over there, we won't go after them climb very young Well, these are generally beautiful Look at the hats they are just perfect, let's take them Opa class in the forest everything is wet very wet very wet because I remind you it has been melting snow for three days in a row there was much more snow needles so little is left in the forest there is still so little As you can see there above There is no more in general, so almost everywhere there is a swamp, but still, the atmosphere in the forest is good. we have been walking here for a good hour, we have half a small basket of mushrooms here . it's units, but for nothing, the mushroom is delicious, cool. And the most important thing is that it's fresh in the middle of winter, fresh, and a fresh mushroom is not from a can, cats like do you want fresh, and fresh is much tastier than twisted or dried. So , we continue, the audience, we will walk a few more steps, I understand that we will not have time to reach the entire forest, because we still have less than half an hour left, we have to go back at 12, turn on the lights, there is still work to do. So, we are looking for such a handsome man, we find him, look What a nice, fleshy, such a poured, nice tinker, that's cool, that's cool, that's cool, demo next Well, that's all viewers quietly, imperceptibly, our walk came to an end, as usual. There is still a lot of forest ahead. We have not even gone half of what I thought. Well, I don't have time. I don't have enough time on the clock today. It's 11:40. There are still 20 minutes left and I'll turn on the light. So I'm going back. I'm back home And it's so normal, you and I went to pick mushrooms Here, Opa, we picked mushrooms, we came across surprises, we came across late-autumn mushrooms that made us quite happy, here Well, of course I wanted to collect more flamolins, but as it turned out, we found several snags, and the young ones show that it is just starting here on this side. We will have to come in a few days, when it might be a little colder. Here we will try again, well, for today. yes, I am satisfied with fishing, I don't know how you are, so write under the video, we had such a walk, the main thing is with mushrooms, here we have tacos, I will immediately show you half a wonderful basket of winter and autumn we have enough mushrooms for roasting, we have enough. I, the audience, am going on the road along this path. I don't know. Some game was following. I'm following them. I'm going to go to the field and go home. And to you, as always. Thank you for being with us, as always. Take care of yourself and your loved ones. there will be Ukraine friends And you and I, God willing, we will meet again at the next wonderful fishing and not only the winter fairy tale is just beginning, well, the first snow, unfortunately, it has almost melted, well, as always, the first snow such is his fate to melt, well, we hope that the next one will fall, a nice little Dary Morozets, and we will go again for real winter mushrooms. let's meet