There are no blue tigers. No blue bats, no blue squirrels, or blue dogs. Even blue whales aren't that blue. Animals come in pretty much every color, but What's cool, though, is when we do find Nature doesn't do halfway with blue. To understand why this is, we're gonna journey cool physics. But, first we're gonna need to understand that, we need to go look at some butterflies... you don't think so, you're wrong This is Bob Robbins. He's curator of Lepidoptera at the National Butterflies ARE awesome. Make no mistake about it. They're a group of moths that evolved to active during the day, you have an advantage: You probably realize this, but out of all insects, butterflies display the brightest and most detailed patterns. And there's a good reason for that: The colors in butterfly wings deliver messages, and this is my territory", but not all butterfly If we zoom way in on a butterfly wing, we It's actually how moths and butterflies Oranges, reds, yellows browns...those scales absorb every color except what we see. Black scales absorb all colors. Animals, from butterflies to birds to you they're made from ingredients in our diet. You might know this thanks to flamingos: They're called carotenoids in crustaceans they eat. So when it comes to these colors: You are But not so for blue. Blue is *different* If you move the camera, you can see that the It does. It's like a hologram thing. This is because there's no blue pigment Wait... so they're blue, but they're not That's correct! Yes. You're lying to me butterflies! These are Blue Morpho butterflies, maybe the prettiest butterflies of all. I mean... they did make it the butterfly emoji. The blue color isn't from a pigment. The blue comes from the shape of the wing works, it kinda blew my mind. If we zoom way in on a blue wing scale, we If we slice across the scale, and look closer, trees. The arrangement of the branches is what gives When light comes in, some bounces off the But some light passes into the layer and reflects For most colors of light, waves reflecting they'll be canceled out, and that light But blue light has just the right wavelength: that color makes it to our eye. This hall of mirrors only lets blue light There's even a pigment at the base that the blue even more pure. That's how we get this awesome iridescent The microscopic structure of the wing itself. All of this happens because of the way light material. So if we fill all those tiny gaps with something Technically, this "changes the index of blue light is no longer bent the right way. The microscopic light filter is broken. Until the alcohol evaporates. And the color returns. But these butterflies live in the rainforest. You think they'd lose their color any time Well watch this. These wing scales are made of a material that's What about this blue jay feather? If we look through it, the color completely No blue pigment. Each feather bristle contains light-scattering blue light is canceled out. Unlike the highly-ordered structures we find are more messy, like a foam, so instead of from every direction. Peacock tail feathers? Again it's the shape of the feather, not But the light reflecting structures here are from certain angles. There's even a monkey-WHOA let's keep adding and subtracting of light waves thanks And yes, even your blue eyes, are colored Outside of the ocean, almost exclusively, with microscopic structures, and each one's No vertebrate, not a single bird or mammal on its body. In fact, there's only one known butterfly blue pigment. Blue as a pigment in nature is incredibly But there's one exception so far that we the olivewings. They have evolved a blue pigment. They're not very common and we don't know other blue pigment. That's a really special butterfly. Why is almost all of nature's blue made else? I've asked this question to several scientists theory so far: At some point way back in time, to see blue light. But they hadn't yet evolved a way to paint But if they could, it'd be like going from Pepper's Beatles. it meant new opportunities for communicating Creating some blue pigment-out of the blue-would there was no way to just add that recipe to It was much easier for evolution to change at the most microscopic level, and create They solved a biology problem with engineering. What I love about this is these colors have years. After looking at peacock feathers through Robert Hooke wrote: Even Isaac Newton noticed there was something have been studying it ever since. Not only because the science is interesting, Thanks for watching, and stay curious.