We all know gardening is expensive. that I do it. And I'm a huge fan of And the most common question I get is. that, that you can reuse compost going to take you through exactly what to be able to use this medium over and I'm Tony O'Neill and this is Simplify in a simpler way. in, or just want to grow your own Then start now by clicking the subscribe Then click all, to be notified each time You may be at home and just harvested or whatever vegetables you wanted. And and because of that you're left over all this used compost and you don't know And the answer is to reuse it. Now that you shouldn't really true. organizations that are greedy. for you to hand over to buy spent compost will have had plants. But it's as good as new. have had a disease, compost is best to be disposed of. In order to rejuvenate spent compost of using the dump method. Simply garden or into it and you want to break it up. that. That what you want to do. You want to and break it up like that. Any of these compost you don't need them. check the compost for pests and disease, It's an ample opportunity now to get rid kill your new little plants when you're when you're reusing this product. This is take a look Now compost. you. water and nutrients for your plants and microbial life in the soil. compost into a useful product again. compost, new compost. rejuvenate the compost enough crop. Manures are really good too! build texture, they stop compaction this Even good old topsoil can be added to and this will add lots of soil life to dead compost. But not only that it doubles the volume that you have to in the garden.The next thing to consider as we've already discussed nutrients removed into this compost. that you can use such as U.S blood meal and bone meal. can be used, all you need to do is make that it's a slow-release organic When adding fertilizers be sure to instructions on the packaging because feed. It is much better to underfeed overfeed, due to nutrient locking. So now how can we reuse it in the gardens? We can continue to grow crops in pots Number two. It can be used for potting on Number three. It could be used to top Number four. It could be added to the and, number five. We could store this next spring or for our potatoes next Really, anything you would normally use essentially it's the exact same stuff. mentioned using this as a seed starter could still be some pathogens or pest within the compost. Now if you were to it may prevent the seeds from actually mature enough to survive, whereas once then it wouldn't affect these plants. So used the compost as a mulch use it for whatever you want to use it, So the alternative here would be to spring. that it came in originally if we still And these could then be stored in a cool Alternatively, if you have the old dalek bins like I have here, you can simply into these bins and store it over winter affecting it. you require it. you may remember me saying about the soil life. Well to use this compost one more thing the soil. this compost before adding it to build that's to bring in the soil life. Now this. like bokashi compost which is a form of And also we could even bring in some doing these this compost But you can also add additional to really enrich the soil life and So how long can we use this compost for? pretty much indefinitely. As I've already that we can add nutrients to and keep But you do need to take some things into If the compost starts getting tired and then it's time to cut your losses and But growing your potatoes and other doesn't have to cost the earth. You can But if you do have to buy it then you and over and over again. Don't think it's If you've got value from this video, you And if you want to know exactly what you of buying it Then I have a real of making compost. Gardening. Where i show you how to garden Don't forget folks, You Reap What You Sow! I'll see you in the next one. bye