Hey everybody, David and David here from payetteforward.com going to tell you about some Facebook Privacy There's a lot of concern these days about These Settings will help you have more privacy Right. There is pretty much no better data Gathering Every time you like something and then every they can build this Network, and it's amazing The way that we know about it is that when in Oklahoma, who like Shania Twain, who also and on. So let's get to these Settings. Right. Well, so let's open the Facebook app and tap corner of the screen, and scroll down to Settings Then, tap Settings. Here we go. Everything we're going to be doing is in this So let's start with security and login. First thing I want to talk about is two-factor Two-factor authentication just means that to be able to log into your account. It's kind of a pain in the butt sometimes, Yes. I'll tap on that and then select the security They recommend using authentication app. What do you think? We should do an app or text message? I think a text message. Alright. I know that the authentication app is supposed easier -- perfect -- than having to open Yes, let's tap continue. That's my phone number. Yeah, that's blurred out. Blur that out. Yeah, there we go. Six digit code is being sent to my iPhone. There it is. Tap continue enter your password. There we go. Two-factor authentication is on; nice and Yeah, tap done. So the iPhone is really good at automatically codes to the apps are okay. I have to use the apps like Authy for some more security than just a text message, but a lot easier and it still is secure. Right. So let's, tap back and, tap. Again, next we want to talk about is facial We want to turn off Facebook's ability to They should just call it &quot;Book&quot;. Yeah. So it'll scroll out of privacy and tap face Do you want Facebook people to recognize you I don't! I do not want Facebook collecting data about Yeah, and then using that data for who knows Yeah, there's actually a lot of privacy concerns some new bills being passed in Congress are this because of the security risks. I mean, just just imagine how much data they that everyone is uploading, not just from And then figure out where you've been. It'd be so easy for people that take pictures Even the people that don't want to be. Yep. So we'll tap No. There we go. Nice and easy; facial recognition is off. Next thing is Location Services. We're gonna go back to the main page the Settings Services. We're going to set this to never. So we have to actually go to the Settings Yep. It'll take you to the Settings app. Tap on location; set to never. Now Facebook isn't going to track your location It's also can save battery life, too. Yeah, and if you do want Facebook to be able do want that, then definitely choose &quot;While because Facebook does not need to know where Yep. That's sort of the creepy one. So either never or while using this app. Great. So I'll go back to the Facebook app, go back And then I'll just open the app switcher by Yep. Next thing here Facebook Settings for this My location history is on this is kind of to saves a list of every place you've been this probably quite all over the place. Yep. I'm just gonna go ahead and turn that switch I don't want Facebook saving a list of places Right. Why do they need to know that? I don't know. I know where I've been. The next thing we're going to do is turn off Extremely targeted ads Based on data that So how do we do that? Now? Let's go back to the main page and Settings preferences here your Facebook ad preferences You can't just say none. Yeah, and then, tape, tap on ads Based on and Publishers, but your activity and Facebook's useful ads and includes your use of partner website. So, like, here we go: PayetteForward.com uses The Facebook pixel runs in the background because it allows people that run ads to Target So imagine if you went to Travelocity then So know who was already on their website and pay more money to put ads for Cancun or whatever That's why you see ads this is going to turn Yep. So to turn this off, tap continue in the lower turn off this switch next to allowed now. It is not allowed. Right. They really don't want you to do this one. They say that turning it off is going to still because advertisers aren't going to pay to it, right. So maybe you might see fewer ads to be honest. Yeah, and the last thing is just, tap save Your choice has been saved, tap done while Let's just go ahead and, tap on ads based You see elsewhere kind of the same thing as tap on that scroll down and select no. Done easily go blessing want to talk about That was the Russia linked troll farm for of fake Facebook pages and try to interfere Elections in 2016. Facebook has a way to see if you actually we can accidentally we can drop a link to And basically if you go to this page, you'll agency accounts that you've liked or followed Yeah, just go ahead and I'm like them. Yeah, they should call it the sucker page So to check out that page make sure you're Well, I guess I hadn't liked her followed Yeah. I haven't either I was a good. Yeah, I mean, I don't really use Facebook video is very realize that it all these Settings Yeah, and I was well, it's on by default. Yeah, they just turn everything on you hit given your life away if you've used Facebook into this part of the Facebook app. I mean all this stuff is probably on -- Those are some Facebook Privacy Settings to Thanks for watching this video. Give it a thumbs up if you enjoyed. Leave us a comment down below with any other this channel for more great videos about cell