I want to ask you this Are you a true Christian? Examine yourself. Will you go to be with God for all eternity for the devil and his demons and everyone Where you will be gnashing on your Let me ask you this: Are you a lukewarm Christian? [Revelation 3:16] Again, I'm asking you this with a lot of and many of you are just so focused on is passing away. One day you're here, the next you are gone. You need to take your faith seriously. [2 Corinthians 13:5] Let me be real with you. I was a lukewarm Christian. church with my dad as a pastor and he preached But I wanted to live for the world I wanted to sit on the throne I did not want to submit to the authority of God. choose Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. acknowledge Him as the Savior, right? but they don't submit to Him as Lord as well. [Mark 8:36] Let me ask you again. You might say, well, Daniel I I went to church. I've been a Christian all my life. does God say that if you grew up in a Christian It&quot;s not in here at all. absolutely nothing to you. If you say you're a Christian but you have not and Savior, where God came and He changed you and adopted you as His child, Your parents can't do it for for you. It is you. if you have not been spiritually reborn. [John 3:3] You know, just Jesus using these words - truly Him - because a lot of people miss this, and this and saying truly - this is - this is true. This is how important it is. Now, let me ask you again. If you die today, one of the 150,000 people that is how many people die every You need to take this seriously. I believe that God exists. So I must be going to heaven. exists doesn't make you a true Christian. Jesus is real - that God exists - Just believing that God is real [James 2: 19] You see, giving your life to Christ involves so It involves understanding that you are a sinner. comes to unrighteousness - that you your sin - it involves recognizing that That only Jesus's sacrifice It involves asking God to forgive you and to cover your sins with the blood of Jesus. I even prophesy over people. so I must go to heaven. Because even people who are not believers religious deeds through the flesh. They just practice dead religion. [Matthew 7:16-21] Now, listen carefully to this, because this is Even healing and prophesying, doing certain There are many of you who might be lost. [Matthew 7:22-23] This is also a wake up call for many of you who are prophets - prophesying things over people. well that demons can give to people and then They're deceiving people. They're very clever and their prophecies are very You need to understand this. out demons, Jesus said he never knew them, meaning [Matthew 7:23] Now, let me ask you again, if you You might say, well, God is a god of love. doing my my own thing, you know, God is a Yes, God is a god of love, but you don't understand who God truly is. There is a lot more to Him than that. you have no idea who God truly is. If someone says, oh you're a funny person, it or if someone says that you are a positive you're always positive, always happy. There is much more to you. You know, humans... we're a little We're a little bit this, but we're Only God is. He's 100% righteous all the time. So you need to understand that God is And He will punish sin if He is truly righteous. And God is also Holy. Immutable. Self-sufficient. Infinite. Omnipotent. Omniscient. Omnipresent. Fully glorious, meaning infinitely He is gracious, willing to spare He's merciful, He's kind. He's faithful - meaning He always keeps He knows everything about everything. And then yes, He is love. But that doesn't mean, and you can use continue in your filthy, dirty, sin. You want to continue to steal. You want to continue to look at pornography. No. God is also holy and righteous and He cannot have a relationship with you You need to repent. [1 Corinthians 6:9-10] Do not be deceive. And do not be deceived by your own You always make mistakes. And you need to listen to His Word. Every word of God is perfect. [2 Timothy 3:16] And you can trust it further in Verse 9. [1 Corinthians 6:9-10] To those of you who say you're Christians but and you don't care about it. If you say that you are a Christian but of sinful mankind - like the rest of yourself because it is impossible. to still live like the rest of mankind in not worrying about it at all, how can that be? [Ephesians 5:4] One of the first signs you can usually see a Christian but they're not is when Joking about sexual things, when [Galatians 5: 19-21] You know, one of the things that makes Christians use the Lord's name in vain. Christians and they do that. I hurt. if you have God's Spirit in you? You cannot. [Exodus 20:7] You cannot use God's name just Especially you in America who say oh my God after How can you use God's name true reborn Christian? [Matthew 12:36-37] I'm saying this to you with a lot of love and it truth but that is what needs to be happening. The light needs to shine. You need to look at yourself honestly Examine yourself to see whether you are in God is light and we need to live in the light. We should read the Word. Bereans and test ourselves to see whether Because if we truly love Not just because, oh now, I No. want to please God because you love Him. then you are living in darkness. You're living in darkness. stay when you die. So let me ask you again. John 3:3 says that you have to be reborn. [John 3:16] And you know that is where some people stop. But what comes after Verse 16? The Bible is written in Verse this, verse that, verse this you like to try and apply it with your life. your lifestyle. You need to understand the lifestyle according to God's Word. [John 3:17-21] Now listen to this carefully. Verse 19: [John 3:19-21] Now let me ask you again. You know, some of you might say, God created me and I'm His child. Yes, you are His creation but it That name - that title - is only given as both Savior and Lord - who repented [John 1:9-13] But now listen carefully. [John 1:9-13] Do you see? Reborn. Your friends cannot save you. They cannot make the decision for you. You need to accept Jesus And then only God can save you because He declares It is a miracle. He works regeneration within you. [John 21: 21-22] You see, you are responsible for your own life. Stop looking at other people. If you want to have eternal life, a life even in fulfillment, where you abide in Christ, He in you. just receiving eternal life. But you need to make the decision to choose Him. Repent of your sins. So many people think that they are This is the gospel message, Repent. He preached it. [Matthew 3:2] You see, you cannot start a relationship [Matthew 4:17] You see, you can only worship You have to come to the truth. condition, that you are a sinner that He's perfect, that He died Who He is, and then only can you start to [John 4:23-24] So you realize that you are a sinner, filthy rags according to scripture. people and think, man, I'm not this No. compare yourself according to God's Word. There is no darkness in Him. best deeds are like filthy rags to God. Only Jesus could because He is perfect. And that is why now God the What He did for you on the cross. You stop comparing yourself to other And you ask Him to forgive you, to wash you clean. [Acts 2:38] So after you ask Jesus for forgiveness, you accept All the punishment that you should God's wrath. He brought it on Jesus Christ, on the cross. you should have received for lying, stealing, and all the other sins you have done. And because God is righteous, But because He is God, He [Romans 10:9-13] And when you truly do that, the judge of Done. That's it. You don't have to do it tomorrow or the day after. Because the moment He declares you as righteous, He works that regeneration in you. Because you are now the temple of God. walk within this newness of life. This is why you cannot save yourself through His gift. [Titus 3:5] You see, God is amazing. He is far bigger than than we God Himself gives you His spirit and Christian because He seals you with [Ephesians 1:13-14] In other words, you become spiritually alive. because of the Holy Spirit. is impossible to go back to what you Because now you are spiritually alive. to cuss, to drink, getting drunk, sexual sin. All even worrying about it, because the Holy Spirit Jesus says in John 16:8: [John 16:8] [2 Corinthians 5:17] This is amazing. When you open that gate, when you go through what Jesus did for you on the cross, as you there's a whole long narrow road. There's a whole new world that opens You think differently, you see things Where you see things for the first time. Things you couldn't understand before because [Galatians 4:5-7] This is what it means to Many of you might be lukewarm Christians, or some to come back to Christ. You are still living in a time of grace. go by so fast you are but a vapor. Come back to God. And if you come back to Him, [Luke 15:18} Does that not show you how How much He loves you? He doesn't love your sin at all. But He loves you and He wants you real relationship with Him. [Luke 15:21-24) I want to ask you one last time, You cannot outrun death. There are certain things in this Like certain laws. If I leave this Bible, it's going to fall. There's a time for man and And after that comes judgment. There are many Christians who are on the way They do not truly love the Lord. where they truly accepted Him as Lord. in him or her and made them new creations. You live in a time of grace, and this It is going away. One day you're here, the next you are gone. to be with Christ. go to hell where you'll be tormented for all regret, because you didn't choose Christ. and is coming sooner than you think. God today while you still have time. then please watch this video And always remember, that God loves you, He's waiting for you. And I hope you make the right decision today.