Alright I've made two videos about the Robosen both of which move on their own, transform everything a typical transformer DOESN'T do. And questions in the comments: Can they talk to each "So they made Optimus Prime, then Grimlock, and I bet they're working on Megatron now. own little war on their own. All you have Hi I'm Jett Kuso and, well... Robosen sent and more as I explore the depths of what that includes making them fight, something If you're disappointed Megatron's alt mode past 30 years of Transformers... Megatron tank. It does shoot though! The turret doesn't command. This is totally new for Robosen, It's like a toy thing! It does a toy thing! for its rubber treads, turning though the controls in the app and he has to say a voice line before he does That said, the lines are specially recorded Also uh... hey y'all... The Megatron You look at the tank form and think, oh hey what the moment it transforms. It's a terrifying fast movements. Both Optimus and Grimlock and the Megatron is too when he's walking And that's pretty much necessary, given the but he tosses the thing around like he hates it, and somehow the momentum His animations are fast, he's and the app is careful to warn transformation or certain actions Before I could get too deep into each and my eyes were drawn to the 'mini-theater' me to connect an Optimus Prime as well, so tells me to ensure they're 100cm apart, which I and then tell the app I did it anyway. Whether it's a software glitch or it's or whether I'm using the WRONG Optimus Prime, it starts yelling that his left shoulder is stuck. while the Megatron just spazzes out pantomiming Come on dude, read the room, improv, say yes! the only scene in the app... The Grimlock also has any content yet. This seems like it should be honestly the biggest reason to even HAVE the same stuff. If robosen can create I mean can you IMAGINE having 3, 4, 5 choreography right in front of your very ...I can. WAIT WAIT HANG ON! Back up! names. If you say 'hey Megatron, optimus prime!' vice versa with Optimus yelling about Megatron, Alright so...not really. Maybe if one of Prime" or whatever, but I don't think voice. They're probably pretty My second thought: This Megatron has fighting put em in front of each other with weapons In the end it was the hand-to-hand They'll pretty much actually fight each other one of which can easily knock down the other. And At this point, Conner pointed out that playing with toys how a kid plays with toys. Not they're really fighting, but trying to stress which is the main thing children are to use these robots like this! In my limited acts like they are, but still, one wrong move and wear down or break if they get stuck, it's not it's REALLY easy to get badly pinched if you have and they were falling down a lot since I had blah blah blah LOOK AT ME I'M HAVING FUN! The optimus is destined to lose this fight given big cheese. The Flagship model Optimus would be I mean I like this, this is good, but I mean... I just feel like something is missing. Wait, do you hear that? IT'S BUMBLEBEE!!!! Robosen sent the bumblebee ages ago and I never cause it doesn't transform, but now I find little guy compared to the others, so he moves other G1 styled figures he fits in just fine. but I couldn't get it working either, for making an app that syncs up with multiple but still, it could use some This experience honestly is massively superior just cause there's more to do. It's interactive a thing happens, but like... I'm trying stuff? there's a sort of...emergent gameplay? Something than any of them demand on their own. apps and saying commands to try to get all the autobots to shoot at Megatron, or and pressing the button that makes him die. cause it doesn't work well cause it's not what the same instinct that makes kids climb on swing sets. Still, I wish Robosen would make of the bots from the same phone, access all the simultaneously. They should say in the app and for legal reasons I must advise you not expensive robots. It would be irresponsible stuff I got for free, BUUUUUT LIIIIIKE... All in all, it's great to have with the various autobot characters. It evokes when importing Diaclone and Micro Change, to villain toys rarely sell as well to kids, the to the heroes you already have. And that idea beyond what those Takara designers ever would description if you wanna buy any of this stuff, This is Jett Kuso, and I'll see you next time.