Translator: Joseph Geni (Music) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) So, that's what I've done with my life. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) As a kid, I grew up on a farm in Florida, and I did what most little kids do. I played a little baseball, but I always had the sense and it wasn't until I saw that a couple other guys skate, I thought, &quot;Wow, that's for me,&quot; you know? Because there was no coach and these guys, There was no opponent And I loved that sense, when I was about 10 years old, in 1977, and when I did, In fact, here's some footage It wasn't until 79 and then, by 81, I was 14, which was amazing to me, and in a very real sense, Oh, watch this. This is a Casper slide, Mental note on that one. (Laughter) And this one here? An ollie. So, as she mentioned, but that's why they called me Here's some images of that. Now, I was about halfway in, I would say, the mid-'80s. Freestyle itself -- we developed but there was evolving where guys were taking it to the streets, like I showed you. They were using it to get up and over stairwells So it was evolving upwards. In fact, when someone tells you they pretty much mean a street skater, because freestyle, it took about and at that stage, I'd been a &quot;champion&quot; Phew! And suddenly, it was over for me, They took my pro model off the shelf, which was essentially That's how you make your money, you know? You have a signature board I had all that stuff, and it's gone. The crazy thing was, there was because I no longer had to protect &quot;Champion,&quot; again. Champion sounds so goofy, What drew me to was now restored, because that's where the joy was creating new stuff. The other thing that I had that were rooted Stuff the normal guys were doing So, as humbling and rotten as it was -- And believe me, it was rotten. I would go to skate spots, And everyone thought I was good, but in this new terrain, I was horrible. So people would go, (Laughter) So, humbling as it was, I began again. Here are some tricks that I started And again, there's this undergirding Oh, that one? That's, like, the hardest OK, look at that, it's a Darkslide. See how it's sliding on the backside? Those are super fun, You know, at the very root see how you throw it? Simple as that, right? No biggie. And your front foot, I'd seen someone slide and I was like, &quot;How can I get it over?&quot; Because that had not yet been done. And then it dawned on me, I had an infrastructure. where it was like, oh my gosh, It's just the way Just let the ledge do that, and it's easy, and the next thing you know, based out of the variations. So that's the kind of thing -- here's another way, A little indulgent, I understand. There's something called a Primo slide. It is the funnest trick ever to do. It's like skimboarding. And this one, look how it slides OK, so when you're skating, the board slips that way or that way; This? It goes every which way -- and that's what I love the most about it. It's so much fun to do. In fact, when I started doing them, I had to get a knee surgery, right? So there were a couple of weeks It would give out on me, I'd go to this warehouse my friends, and I was like, &quot;I've got to do something new, I want to start fresh.&quot; And so the night before my surgery, &quot;How am I going to do this?&quot; So I ran up, and I jumped on my board, and I Cavemanned, and I flipped it down, and I remember thinking, if my knee gives, they'll just have (Laughter) And so, when it was the crazy thing. I don't know how many (Laughter) you are so helpless, right? You're on this gurney every time, it's always that, and right when they're putting all I was thinking is, the first thing I'm going to do And indeed I did, it was the very first I told you a little bit Consider that content, in a sense. What we do as street skaters is, Say I'm working on Darkslides, or a Primo, that you guys know this stuff now. (Laughter) What you do is, you cruise that you've seen a hundred times, but suddenly, because in this fixed domain of this target, How can I expand, how can the context, how can the environment change So you drive and drive and drive, just because I was struggling but I'll just say it, not only to be here in front of you, but what a privilege it is because I have been escorted off (Laughter) (Applause) So let me give you another example This is a place not that far from here, Your first consideration is, You go out and -- See this wall? It's fairly mellow, and it's beckoning But there's this other aspect so check this out. There's a few tricks, again, how environment changes Freestyle oriented, Watch, this one? Oh, I love this, the way you catch it. This one, a little sketchy and watch the back foot. Oops -- (Laughter) Mental note right there. Again, we'll get back to that. (Laughter) Here, back foot, back foot. OK, up there? That was called a 360 flip. Notice how the board flipped And another example and the creative process is, you go, you get out of the car, you check for stuff. (Laughter) It's funny, you get to know the guys that cruise around -- (Laughter) Skateboarding is such No matter how good you are, So you hit this wall, and when I hit it, the first thing you do and I'm like, all right, all right. As you adjust ... you punch it up, it was throwing my shoulder this way ... which as I was doing it, I was like, because that's how And so this is what I want all of these tricks are made executive motor functions, more granular to the degree but one thing I do know is, every trick is made of combining two And so, as I'm going up, and you have to sort of pull it back a little bit, and let your intuition go And these submovements and as the wall hits you, and that's when the cognitive mind: So that's how that works the process itself, of street skating. So, next -- Oh, mind you ... (Laughter) Those are the community. These are some of the best These are my friends -- And the beauty of skateboarding is that, no one guy is the best. In fact, I know this is rotten to say, but a couple of them actually don't look What makes them great is the degree to individuate themselves. Every single one of these guys, you can see a silhouette &quot;Oh, that's him, there's these guys, these are the guys.&quot; And skaters, I think who seek a sense of belonging, but belonging on their own terms. And real respect is given these basic tricks, 360 flips, and then we contribute the inner way that edifies The greater the contribution, the more we express which is so important to a lot of us The summation of that gives us something we could never I should say this. There's some sort of beautiful symmetry that the degree to which is in proportion to our individuality, which we are expressing by what we do. Next, these guys, very similar community (Laughter) Notice a couple of these shots But it is quite similar, It's knowing a technology so well and steer it to do things And they're not all bad. You can be a Linux kernel hacker, More safe, more secure. You can be an iOS hacker, make your iPhone do stuff Not authorized, but not illegal. And then, you've got What they do is very similar They connect disparate information, and they bring it together in a way It doesn't make them good people, but it's at the heart of engineering, at the heart of a creative community, and the open source community, is, take what other people do, give it back so we all rise further. Very similar communities, very similar. We have our edgier sides, too. (Laughter) It's funny, my dad was right. These are my peers. But I respect what they do, because they can do things, In fact, one of them, he was Ernst &amp; Young's Entrepreneur so they're not -- you never know We've all had some degree of fame. In fact, I've had so much success I've had a patent, and that was cool, and it grew, and it became the biggest, and then it went down, which is harder than the first time, and then we sold it again. So I've had some success. And in the end, when you've had what is it that continues to drive you? As I mentioned, the knee stuff what is it that will punch you? Because it's not just the mind. What is it that will punch you and bring it to another level, sometimes, guys, they die on the vine and one of the things I think the best kind of fame, I've been all around the world, and there will be a thousand kids and it's such a weird, It's like, it's disorienting. And you get in a car, and you drive away, and 10-minute drive, and you get out, and no one gives a rat's who you are. (Laughter) And it gives you that clarity and popularity, what does that Not much. It's peer respect that drives us. That's the one thing I've had over a dozen bones, to the point where it's comedy, right? It is actually comedy, they mess with him. (Laughter) Next, and this is something deeper. I think I was on tour when I was reading It was the red one or the blue one. And he made this statement It was that the Nobel Prize and it resonated because that I'd entered over 11 years, In fact, winning The rest of the time, and you get into this, Where you're not doing -- because I was no longer doing it and when it died out from under me, that was one of the most because I could create. And look, I understand that I'm not here to do that. It's just that I'm in front If you guys aren't already you probably will be, that will transcend what I've gotten the only things of meaning, it's not fame, it's not all these things. What it is, is that there's for the sake of creating it, and better than that, and how pathetic is that there is this beauty in dropping it and seeing it dispersed, just different talent, take it to levels because that lives on. So thank you for your time. (Applause) Kristina Holly: I have a question for you. (Applause) So you've really reinvented yourself and, I think it was about four years ago Is that it? What's next? Rodney Mullen: That's a good question. RM: Yeah. Every time you think it's funny, no matter how good you are, it feels like you're polishing (Laughter) And I thought, the only way is to change something infrastructural. And so that's what I proceeded to do, one of desperation, so if I do it, if I do it, you'll be the first to know. KG: All right, we won't ask you any more. KG: Right, thank you, good job. (Applause)