You see, you can see the and of course, the hands The accuracy of the actual My name's Dr. Dave Hone. I'm a paleontologist at Queen I've been working on dinosaurs Today we're going to from the &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; movies Something like Gallimimus simply through pure speed. So this is one of the ones where for its time, it's pretty good, but it's increasingly got dated. We now are very confident that the Ornithomimosaurs as a whole would've been feathered. One thing I've noticed is that they have a tendency for the feet to run parallel to one another, and they should actually start as they take each step. And you can see that from the footprints of these animals when I think this has come from the animators. I've seen the footage, they're literally running and they videoed that and then used that to but we don't run quite the So it's a very human-like running action and not quite a T. rex was definitely an active hunter. The idea that it was just and couldn't hunt isn't true at all. It was hunting far more like a wolf than something like a cheetah. T. rex is an efficient so it's far more likely to by just having a decent turn of speed that it can hold for a Bet you'll never look at Just using the power is what you need to kill stuff. This is a T. rex tooth. This is the root, so this but this is the crown which can then go into And you can see that it's sharp, but it's also very, very This will puncture through bone. I really do like the That's something that we do and this is directly linked It's pinning the thing down with its foot and then coming in with and that's what you'll but also we've now got analysis to show that this actually is probably how they dismembered carcasses. I'd give this one something like a seven. Must go faster. It's not a great If you look at what our understanding of the animal was at the but there's a few things with the shape and structure of the head that aren't great, and our modern interpretation would definitely streamline that a bit. It would be a bit less gnarly, and in particular, would so it would not have the Wood does not shatter on That's not how wood works. It's never going to be able to like, shatter a tree as it runs through it, it's far more likely to break its legs. A bunch of the big carnivores and Tyrannosaurus is one of them. And it's actually been suggested that they might have fought by smashing their heads into them. So it's totally something with a car like this. It may not be able to bite it very easily, it could presumably hit it with its head. We only have vague estimates as to how quick these It is almost certainly moving to be even close to catching a Jeep. Footprints will give you an which will actually give you a good idea of the size of the animal and as its stride length and then But nowadays, we'll also do working out where all the how big and heavy it was, how and therefore how many steps they can take and get an idea of how I'd give this clip a four. A T. rex is nothing like that fast. It would never be able to it would just break its leg, but this isn't really going to happen. So the first problem they've got is that Velociraptor is So even reaching up to a is going to be a challenge for them. You see, you can see the and of course, the hands They could absolutely do that, because the whole point of is it's like a cat claw, it is retracted, so it's held free from the ground. So as you walk around and just normally walking you are not abrading the tip of the claw. So you're keeping it super, super sharp but you don't want to tap and give away where you and you are blunting the or sort evolved to keep Those aren't very big strides. The name Velociraptor means They were quite quick, but they're quite quick Again, they're not super sprinters. I'd give this clip something like a six, because the way it's hunting The accuracy of the actual And again, even for the time, even if you ignore the feathers, it's just 2 and a half So that doglike grabbing I mean, maybe they could do it, but they certainly don't of specializations to do And from what we see from the from what we think are failed attacks where the animal has survived, because we can see healing they're just simply taking So the bite power on the jaws means they can just even very, very large, thick bones. Velociraptor attacking a T. rex. Even at this scale in the movie, this is like a badger You know, it's not going to end well. There is no way on earth they would attack something that size. So they're going to be taking, again, for real-world they're going to be taking or badger-sized prey. They are taking relatively small things that they're capable of with their size. We don't really know what There's a bunch of ideas because what do we know? What things like crocodilians, the kind of noises that they It's things more like ostriches and actually things like chicken and ducks that make relatively simple sounds is what dinosaurs are The roar is absolutely fine. That deep-bodied whole roar kind of noise is absolutely something a so there's no reason to think Whether or not they did do it I'm going to have to give it like a three. There's the way they attack, they just wouldn't attack They screech before you I think overall, I'd give something like a seven for realism. If you remember what we knew at the time and what we had solid information on, it's actually still pretty good. [Park Go-er] Sarah! So the adult Stegosaurus I think they're one of in the entire franchise, except they're really too big. Not quite as bad as Velociraptor, but they should be about just don't think they're very quick. It's not their size that makes Like, they're really So they've got giant back legs, but their front legs The back legs are going but the front legs are not going for a very big animal. I am not very quick, but I think I'd fancy my I think if there was a big I think that would be your best bet. Tail spikes are obviously going The question is what, because the obvious interpretation is this is an anti-predator defense and it's to fight off but babies are much more than adults, and the So it is more than a strong possibility that these are actually primarily used for fighting other Stegosaurus. The plates on Stegosaurus that have been debated pretty much since it was first discovered, but I think we're to the idea that these are They're often argued to be armor. They're not armor. They're They don't protect your With a rotten log like that, I'm absolutely sure the tail What I'm less clear about is like, it's got to rotate the tail right the way over to and the tail is fairly stiff. You know, sweeping sideways is one thing, but like, coming over the top, I really doubt they could do that. I'd give this clip about an eight, other than the tail like, flipping over and them being a bit too big, this is a really accurate depiction of probably how they defended themselves. So those are massively overly shrunk down. The original Compsognathus with a head like this, and then we know that's a so it would probably be so not like that. This is the opposite of this is a third or a quarter And so how on earth you'd some kind of group hunting is impossible. And indeed the Compsognathus has the bones of a lizard inside it showing what it was last eating. So yeah, it's a generalized Compsognathus, the real one and rather bigger teeth but its head would be comparable to that of something like a modern house cat or a mid-sized monitor and they're more than and giving you a very nasty bite. So yeah, that bit at least He struggles to pick up a single one. They weigh about a pound each, just roll around on the I'm going to have to give this But the idea that these tiny dinosaurs would just swarm over particularly something that and can hurt them is really unrealistic. Don't move, don't move, don't run! The whole T. rex's vision is a nonsense built on a nonsense. It's just not true whatsoever. Standing still might be quite good because everyone running away is probably a bigger distraction, but I still probably T. rex would've had pretty thick skin, but it's not going to armor that you can't you know, a well-powered with the right pneumatic weapon. I'm sure that would go straight into it. I imagine something like a rhino, which really does have is probably going to have as thick or similar levels of protection. Give it about a seven. The models are really nice and the way they move is really good. I think it'll probably overall a seven. The Stegosaurus is really good, and just generally how they move and how they act is pretty cool. Pteranodon was not picking Their feet are, or indeed are structured really So if you try and pick up something big like a dog with your feet, you are not going to be able They don't have gripping feet or claws or anything like a bird So it's now trying to that would also compromise than not doing anything like this at all. These are beak-feeding animals. They're much more like your flying down, grabbing Well, they could probably Pterosaurs, we think, were They are effectively active from the minute they hatch, or at least within a couple they could probably get up, So a nest like this with is not how we think they're reproducing. Really very large animals indeed, but Pterosaurs are very lightweight. Even an animal this size like 50 kilos. They're not very heavy at The way they move on the ground, and this is really, really accurate, this is how we think they they're walking on their like a really kind of giant upright bat. It's pretty much the only way you can realistically articulate the limbs to get them to stand and get them to walk. Really definitively, we have that show them walking on all fours and they have very I'd give this one about a five. They're really, really but the way they act and I am a &quot;Jurassic Park III&quot; semi-fan. I think it's a far, far better film than most people think it is. And some of the models are very, very good and very well done and move and act much better in the previous films, but there are some really so I'd probably give it a six overall. Ankylosaurus, they can absolutely hit big carnivorous dinosaurs It would have been something they could defend themselves with, but that's almost certainly The actual armor and the club itself probably primarily evolved This is a display of dominance, this is competing for territory or for mates or things like this, and that's why they're built like that. It's just a kind of bonus to defend themselves from predators. So the structure of the tail is such that you've got like the actual club, then you have what's called the handle, so this big, long strip of and then the main muscles there will pull the tail side to side. So it could probably but this is fundamentally a And indeed, you know, the club kind of reaches a That's what you want to be not hitting it with the It's not a great The whole tail appears to be flexible, so it doesn't appear to have and then the way it would carry it as a result of that is wrong. In dominance, Rex flips it over, but then kills it by not the completely unarmed The head of an Ankylosaur like, they even have a bony so when they close the eye, That's not the bit to bite. Giving this a two. Like, no part of this is really very realistic or convincing or accurate. Dimorphodon is particularly characterized by being like, really short The list of things wrong with that model starts at the tip of the nose and ends at the tip of the tail. God, it's f---ing dreadful. The fingers are in the wrong orientation, the leg shape is wrong, It's got the wrong number of toes, it's got these gripping feet, The tail is far too flexible and it looks like it's too long. As a predator, you're with very quick reaction times. You need to be able to in order to be able to Velociraptor has something very similar. You have this real trade and they have gone for speed. You can see where the with Dimorphodon in the teeth, because Dimorphodon literally and yet in this film, it so that's not a great start. It should have a few of and then behind it should have a row of much, much smaller little teeth. We think it's a so it's biting and killing, you know, rats and lizards and that sort of thing, killing them with those sharp teeth, breaking them up with and then swallowing them. I'll give it a one, because you There is nothing to like about this clip as a Pterosaur researcher, other than it's got Pterosaurs in it. For the first &quot;Jurassic World&quot; movie, it's a significant downgrade Most of the models are as you had even 20 years ago, so I'm going to give it a five. Baryonyx is a really cool, It would've been lovely to see something that's far less generic, or to what we've seen from which we've seen so many times before. So it's a relative of Spinosaurus, which have these very, and do have something like But in this model here, they've That's not how the jaw there's no other dinosaur that I can't see why it It's when you're trying to grab a fish, opening it to 90 degrees does Worse, it means there's when you're trying to do that fast bite. That is a big, strong animal. I think in a wrestling match for This is not a dinosaur that is going to be able to climb up a ladder. The arms can't reach that far forward, they don't hook like that. The arms are big and strong, but not strong enough to lift the body. So Baryonyx are fundamentally fish eaters, so they're sticking their head into water and grabbing fish and eating them, but they also have these really And to be honest, we're not very sure what One possibility that I've suggested is that they're actually quite They might be good at things going after stuff like turtles and other things that Ah, I'd give this clip maybe a four. It's a really interesting animal and it's just a shame we Depending on your this is either a young Pachycephalosaurus or an adult Stygimoloch. I don't think it's going but like, a garden wall Yeah, I think they'd do it some real work. This is the skull of a little This is part of the same group. This entire top half of absolutely solid. And then on top of that, of keratin into a hornlike So literally half the head is bone. That is going to be a on a neck that is and absorb a lot of force, so this is absolutely an and then deliver a huge amount If that thing is capable of and it gets a full impact in your chest, I think your rib cage is basically gone. I can't imagine anyone would I mean, people get killed from single hits from things like sheep and and this animal is capable of I guess I'd give this an eight. I think it's maybe a bit extreme with the way it's and busting the lock open, but it's a really nice model and it is an animal delivering Overall, &quot;Fallen Kingdom,&quot; I'm not a fan. A lot of the models are not very good, a lot of the behaviors are not very good. I'd give it a five. It is great that we're finally Dromaeosaurs, which The feathering is OK, but Pyroraptor is not a it's Velociraptor-ish-sized again, and yet again, it's been There were species that which were not dissimilar in Northern Russia or or northern parts of the where it would've been But there's a difference surviving in cold conditions and diving and swimming in freezing water. There's an odd group of Dromaeosaurs called the Halszkaraptorines and they are suggested to but they are built rather differently. What you have here is an animal that's like, swimming, like, it's feathers are it's not paddling with its tail, and yet somehow moving at high speed. Pyroraptor is about as as like, a pigeon or a magpie. If you chuck it in the water, it's going to thrash This is a two. So Therizinosaurus has that gives it its name &quot;scythe lizard,&quot; and we really don't know quite Our best interpretation is that these were actually in the giant ground even a few tens of thousands of years ago. Reaching up, hooking on separating leaves, and They're very, very unusual, because although they're extremely long, they're also really quite thin. So they're not very strong. They would not be very stabbing through a Giganotosaurus and not just all snapping off. If you stab that into something and you hit something solid like a bone, which is very likely when the claw is going to break. I really like the model. The big three-way fight and is really bad, like a three. &quot;Dominion&quot; is really horribly unrealistic. So many of the models are not good, so many of the actions are not good. Some of the things that going or work well at all. I'd give it a three. My favorite dinosaur from is the Stegosaurus from &quot;The I think it's a great model, I like the color pattern, I like the style of it, and I generally like the way it behaves. I think it's really nice. More realistic dinosaurs, please. If you like this video, why