- This video is sponsored by SimpliSafe. There's no safe like SimpliSafe, the Porsche 911 GT3 RS is the most love it or hate it car Ask a Porsche fanatic. What's the pinnacle of They'll say GT3 RS. It's an absolute - Good. Annoyingly, - Ask some influencer on tiktok. What's the most overrated overhyped car? They'll say GT3 RS What do you think is the most I think that that's, that's probably it. Used prices have inflated to double the already with dealer markups. A new GT3 RS can be ordinary GT3. Now that's a lot of money That's $50,000 a letter. You can see why the GT3 RS has become a supercar. Memes even calling it a fight over whether it Now I don't know the answer and neither does the GT3 RS, but the closest you'll The GT3 RS isn't It isn't designed to be loved or hated. It isn't designed with even how the internet is gonna feel about it. Maybe it's not even really designed at all because the GT3 RS is engineered and it's engineered to have the maximum possible speed on a racetrack while on public roads. And that's true for every When Porsche puts those two for something literally which loosely translates to racing. They reserve that for only The values that make an of Porsche's DNA. It's the pursuit of engineering to the accountants, the haters, or even their customers to understand all of the great RS cars and tell the story of red to the beginning of Porsche because that is where their Welcome to Speeed. This is everything you I know this is a long one, but and long. We tried to cut it down but we just really didn't So without further ado, a s Porsche's racing history kicked off with their very first car, the 356, but that wasn't designed to be a race car. The 356 was the brainchild Porsche, son of Ferdinand Sr. The designer of the Volkswagen Beetle, a little fairy was a car nut. Okay, he owned Alpha Romeo, BMWs Mercedes. These is and developed race powered by a supercharged to 10,500 RPM and was designed Dude, a supercharged flat 12. So when it was time to build the first car there's no way that it was gonna be anything So he sat down with a team of engineers to design a revolutionary sports car and what they came up with was a four cylinder air cooled rear engine car. That's not like just is not a beetle, nothing like it at all. - This is the car in question. No wait, sorry, hang on. It's easy to be confused. This is it. - And with this car, the Now Ferry knew that a small car with enough power was way more with lots of power and and nimble handling that made great little race car in 1951. It was the first German car of a mall and it won its class. The 356 was hugely popular who aren't financially It was partially so popular because you could drive That means you could and if everything went according to plan, you could drive home. After a catering to the orders flooded in and by the time the 356 finally after a 17 year run, Porsche had sold 76,000 of them. Now of course, in Rennsport, speed and technology never stop advancing NSA: never stop advancing and Porsche launched a after the introduction of the 356. That was the 550. Now if the 356 was a road the 550 was a race car that you could road Porsche's project available to consumers with a body made entirely of aluminium. The 550 weigh just 1200 pounds. That is so light. That's like two average motorcycles. And to keep that weight for even faster handling, they of the rear axle. The first prototype five fifties air cooled flat four, but that So Porsche set out to They gave the job to who would end up being a key during his long career. He would serve as Porsche's general manager, and eventually Alright, now much of of engineers who care not maximum profit. A normal car company would've to have more sales success than the 356. But that's not the Porsche And this way of thinking almost tanked the company a few times. They launched a car that was at least by the standard The 550 sold just 90 units, but by Porsche standards 3 5 6. And with the Fuhrmann to the Porsche ideal of The Fuhrmann-powered 550 and the RS designation was born with the Fuhrmann engine. The very first RS car in of a mouthwatering mind boggling 135 horsepower. Now I know that that and Race Car for the road has become but the 550 really was a race car. It was classified for Formula 2 racing, meaning it was a Formula 2 car. Okay? And back then Formula One and Formula 2 sometimes same time. The Formula 2 guys just kind Imagine you're in a GT three Rs and they're like, Hey, Max Verstappen is Get out the way. That's insane. The 550 was literally a race car that you could walk into and drive off of the lot, which is exactly what James Dean did. At 24 years old actor He was the coolest man in Hollywood, known for the brooding bad boys he played on screen. He epitomized the sentiment On September 21st, 1955, he walked into competition right down there and For the more powerful and immediately nicknamed his The mid Mid-engine configuration with faster handling than 356 the driver and apparently the b*tch to drive. Dean discovered this of ownership, reportedly including spitting off crashing into a bunch of garbage cans. Now, if those accidents two days after buying the 550, the guy who played Obiwan outside of a restaurant. Now Obiwan claims that a probably the force, and he pleaded with James that if he did, he'd That prediction was not only creepy, it was also accurate. One week later, while heading to compete in a race James Dean wrecked Sounds like James Dean but if like I got a new car and one of my friends was like, you'll be dead within a week, What the hell? That was So this dude had the for that in his audition? Hey, so I'm reading this like space magic. I'll have, you know, I George Lucas is like, what? Okay, the Porsche 550 successor, the 718 was yet another but honestly way more This little was race car AF dude, it's so race car that of different race cars. The718 RSK made of LeMans in 1957. Then in 1960 they introduced the RS 60. It had a brand new double and a larger 160 horsepower to an overall victory Next they came out with the 718 WRS, the Welt Rennsport, or world racing. Now that one contained a flat 240 horsepower, but just displacing two liters. That's a lot of cylinders It finished 8th overall at LeMans, but in its class, the two liter class, it finished first. Now Porsches and Caymans are and they're in reference to this car. It was that good to Porsche. In 1964, Porsche and cars changed forever. Enter the 911 for 60 years. The 911 hasn't just it's the same rear engine constant engineering and handle better with each generation. No other model has done that of the most successful cars but Corvette's got some pretty Every 911 generation has a good one. The RS badge went dormant after the 911 was born, it took the first major step it received the Rennsport treatment. I've always wanted one of these bad boys and I finally got one. I couldn't afford a full size one yet. Hit that subscribe button, but this one is still so I want to keep it safe and that is where today's SimpliSafe offers and it's perfect for keeping Safe, big or small. Their system can cover and shelf with advanced sensors and cameras to detect break-ins, And just like this bad boy, it's award-winning isn't pretend in my head. It was named among the best by US News and World Report. That's five years running. It was even ranked the of 2024 in home security that I have been trying to get for years and unlike my car payments, you will never be locked so you can cancel at any time. Pricing is transparent and affordable, starting with no hidden fees ever. With fast protect monitoring and simply safes exclusive act within five seconds of receiving your alarm via They can even see and speak to intruders in real time, stopping 'em in their tracks. Hey, get the hell outta there as your personal eye in the sky. They can confirm the emergency and convey critical details to 9 1 1. Helping to get a speedy response. Hey, police, yeah, got another one. It's a tiny car but it's very popular. Simply put simply saves Cameras and groundbreaking you peace of mind. It's easy to install and activate yourself or you can choose professional installation and have a pro to it. If you want to protect what matters, whether it's a dream car, or your actual home, head to simplisafe.com/speed S-P-E-E-E-D to save 50% on your system. Plus get a free indoor camera There's no safe, like simply safe. The 1973 911 Carrera RS 2.7 was a homologation special built that meant it needed to that Porsche wanted, its race car to have, but be road legal and they had to make at to consumers. Sometimes to race in a certain to sell a certain number of the race car that they wanted to race. In that series, the E30 M3, Mercedes and even Porsche's legendary 959 are all homologation specials. The RS 2.7 featured an enlarged version of the 911 signature boxer A team of 15 of Porsche's to upgrade the suspension and brakes and put the 911 on a serious diet. They recreated the nine elevens steel and replaced the And we haven't even The 2.7 RS was the first and rear spoilers. Those aren't winks. They don't create or spoil airflow that produces drag. A big source of that is behind the car as it Now to figure out the perfect Porsche engineers tested in a wind tunnel. Now this was long before the age of computers, so they increased the height by adding thin strips of sheet metal. Once they saw the reversal point, when the pressure drag they pulled off the last Sick man to be a fly on the Now this sort of single-minded obsession that RS engineers have In fact, it comes from somewhere and that somewhere is a small that's been the home to Porsche's 1971. Now lots of automakers have world, but Weissach is different. A lot of other car companies center far away from their If they also run racing yet another location, because there's no race track nearby or because they don't want the accountants or the accountants Now at most car companies, of engineers at the home base and then once that's to another group of and racing divisions to get all spiced up. At Porsche, every car is developed at Weissach because of their with performance road cars with race cars. So when it's time to make the race car for the This go over there, look at that and they walk over there and work on that. Now this is why the 2.7 RS wasn't a re-engineering project. It was about bringing out the greatness that was already there about full potential. Not only is the 2.7 Rs, one of the most perfectly engineered of the most iconic The distinctive Carrera lettering colors like bright yellow or blood orange, even wheels color match to the decals or body. It just wreaks of cool and they actually sold quite but 1600 cars is nowhere near enough to satisfy current demand for possibly the most The 2.7 Rs is the Porsche that launched a million and restomodded classic 911s Theon, Strat, Emory Motorsport, not to mention garage built creative executives. Cool Venice dads, Deus and possibly most famous of all. This guy - I bought my first Porsche and it straight away became an RS clone. You know what put the RS on the map to the general public An iconic legend was born on that day. - Whenever I make a video about a Porsche, I gotta talk to Magnus Walker. - I used to joke RS stands for of does, but you know in the So I've never actually owned because the 73 RS Carrera, you Like they're all sort of around you and it's the visual sight, you know you're connected to that car. Back then they were pretty stripped out. There were no driver aids. It sort of for me engages all the senses I talk about at all times. I mean the greatest thing really of Porsche is for the most It's usable performance You can just get in and go. The RS version obviously is coming back to the race sport heritage, for me is every time you get you kind of do feel a little bit like you're a race car driver. - After the 2.7 Rs, the letters went gone for about a decade until the 1984 911 SC Rs. This was another homologation for the world Rally Championships Group B. You ever heard of it? Porsche had intended to launch the 9 5 9 to but design delays left them without a car for the 1984 season. Luckily, since Porsche had in 1983, the SCRS was considered an evolution. So they only had to produce 20 to satisfy the homologation rule, not the usual 200 In a matter of months. Porsche engineers designed and built those 20 cars that made 280 horsepower in race trip. The naturally aspirated SCRS the nine 11 turbo, but that wasn't just because of the power. It was also down to the RSS diet, which had made the SCRS 660 pounds lighter than the turbo. It also featured the turbo's wider body but made with thinner sheet and fiberglass for the bumpers and spoilers as you'd The SCRS had adjustable or lowered depending on because this was a Porsche or lowering spring purchase. Instead, mechanics could between different mounting points to raise or lower the car without and the car wore brakes from that had won Lamar. As with previous RS cars, for competition success, after all the cars had been completed, Porsche pulled outta the WRC. They decided that of rallies all over God's cost too much money. They were much smaller company back then, but five of the cars were sold a British engineering company who specializes in building and privateers. Now years later, Prodrive for rally dominance working But in 1984 they had The scss they prepared for the immediately proved that prodrive and these Porsches were a They campaigned those cars and Middle Eastern rally championships and racked up 18 wins These are by far the most famous Porsche rally cars. These are the cars that have inspired Infinite and eventually Porsche's and Rothman's livery colors as a factory option except that it's called the Rough Roads package because like every cool is cigarettes. Now up until this point, RS cars hadn't really been know, but when Porsche to the new generation of nine to change that and it did not go well in Europe. The 9 6 4 Porsche Carrera RS A revised engine with 256 close ratio transmission, stiffer springs adjustable stabilizers, a limited slip differential. Also available in Europe was sport package that stripped the interior and stereo added a roll and harnesses that resulted savings over the standard Carrera. But Porsche felt that the Carrera RS was too aggressive to appeal to US buyers to appease hardcore nine especially made RS of the comfort features from of 271 pounds more weight package and just 77 pounds So basically it was It had less features but wasn't nearly as to ordinary nine 11 buyers. The RS America's lack of but to the small number who would've loved a real of felt half-assed. One redeeming factor was that it cost about $10,000 The 701 RS America's and many dealers ended up discounting the price even further. Now in the US the entire point for the nine 11. Now in hindsight, this is Used prices on the and the final air cooled 9 9 3 which came after started rising a long time ago that made the 9 6 4 seem like buy for a number of years, sort of nine 11, but that couldn't as soon as I got a job and had some money, prices So what explains their Well, a lot of it comes The 9 6 4 was a huge step and refinement over the before it, which had The 9 6 4 was the first road going nine 11 to offer optional all-wheel drive. It was also the first nine Hell, it was even the first All these features made the car better, but it also made them more expensive. In 1990, just as the 9 6 4 was unveiled, the US entered a recession. They're calling it the Monday massacre, the worst drop in Wall Street history. It's so crazy you can't, nobody even expected it And the adverse exchange rate and Germany meant that by 1992 a base 9 6 4 $70,000 close to $30,000 more than the previous jet. With less money and a huge price hike, Americans stopped buying nine elevens. That was a problem. Now this is before volume cars like to stabilize Porsche. Through leaner years, to fall back on during They rarely had more than two And those were all sports cars. And at any point when the Porsche could have made compromise. They could have made more popular RS cars, they could have decided make them more comfortable, make them less race car. Because of the success of those letters have tremendous value. They could have stuck the cars that weren't really and all the cash that they made, dude, any other company probably would have and a ton of other companies have. I'm looking at you B-M-W-B-M-W. What does M even mean anymore? Porsche wasn't willing to make RS a lie. They started down that and learned a valuable lesson. You can't fake rebo. There is no RS light. It's all or nothing. In 1995, the RS name returned to the 19 95 9 9 3 had found their way again, the 9 9 3 Carrera RS was What Porsche needed to revitalize making 296 HERZ PERS thanks to major changes including bigger intake valves and Porsche engineers fiddled and perfected nearly They fitted bigger four turbo, a gearbox with closer They seem welded. The body for stiffness used in aluminum hood with one support strut and used thinner glass for the windows. Any ential thing like removed to save weight. They got rid of the rear seat All in all the 9 9 3 Rs than the base Carrera. But just in case that wasn't good enough, A club sport version appeared once again with stripped interior racing with even tighter ratios that only saved 20 pounds But that was with the addition extra strut braces, more and side skirts, and If someone came to me and said that I could this would 100% be my choice. It is the best version of of the best cars ever made. I love it. The 9 9 3 Rs was a to the RS America, but it also, EH was not available in Porsche was basically like, okay, V gave you guys a chance and zoo blew it. It's low key, our fault, but you are basically dumb and you suck. But all that changed A new era was beginning and let's just say got off to a bit of a rocky start. For over 30 years, every with an air cooled flat six. The nine 11 story is one of engineers constantly with each subsequent but never changing that formula. The 9 9 6 changed that formula. The fuck they moved from Cool, the 9 9 6 kept the So what was the big deal How could people hate that? Well, they kind of actually kind of had a point a little bit. Liquid cooling adds weight complexity and changes the way I also think that Porsche fans of the only air cooled cars left. It made it unique. It made it special. But Porsche engineers don't like the name suggests, an air cold engine uses surface to keep it cool. Lots of motorcycles use air cooling because the engine is sitting It's buried deep inside the engine base. So vents and fans are often but those can only do so much and if the engine is in the entire car is literally One of the biggest drawbacks of air cooling is the power limitation. Now, if you want an you gotta have more powerful Now that produces more heat and that heat's gotta go somewhere or it will damage the engine. Using liquid cooling that runs through the engine then to a radiator located somewhere with better air flow is just simply the best way to do that. The basic nine 11 formula limit on power. Air cooling couldn't keep up that Porsche engineers knew was possible and that quite frankly, the nine 11 deserved that the nine 11 would because air cold engines and Porsche was struggling to keep up with increasing emission standards. So liquid cool, not so bad. Unfortunately this wasn't the with the 9 9 6. The looks were a huge issue, They were build quality issues and come mechanical issues Some people started to come of the turbo models, the return of the target nine 11 revised engines and a facelift in 2002 That was also the basis for the first nine 11 GT three Rs. This is when the Rensport into the performance powerhouse. It still represents today the nine 11 GT three without since 1999 as a homologation special, as you'd expect it was improved nearly every way. An engineer Andres Andy that development and in 2001, of courses, GT division, and developing the homologation cars. Now this is by far the of 2001. Oh god, dude, really? Now the thing about Andy is for maximum performance. So when the 9 9 6 0.2 to satisfy racing yet another step forward. But somehow there was still for sport of the render variety. In 2003, the 9 9 6 GT three Rs was born and the list of changes extensive different heads and valves bump power to 381 hearse PERS Progressive three's, linear ones, and the car got carbon ceramic brakes. Those were incredibly rare 20 years ago and cost nearly $20,000 to replace, but they had better cooling and were half the weight of steel rotors, so we gotta put 'em on. The RSS diet was back in other ways too with polycarbonate windows and carbon fiber hood and rear wing. The 9 9 6 was hugely nerdy. Engineers messed with the of max performance. The wheel carriers were custom made for better dynamic camra. The shock towers could be removed and rotated 120 degrees to get the same alignment The race cars Ram air ducts to force more air into the engine at speed and at 190 miles per hour, that meant 15 extra horsepower. That hyper-focused engineering of paying attention to and the GT three RS clocked of seven minutes, 43 seconds. It was four seconds faster top of the line. 9 9 6, another homologation special. The GT two, the 9 9 6 generation as the least cool nine 11, but people are coming around I mean it's an old car now it looks small, but the GT three RS was How could cars so similar elicit polar opposite responses? The regular 9 9 6 was trying and honestly they're But by changing the nine 11 formula and its unlovable face, the 9 9 6 had an uphill battle with the GT three RSS that flipped. It wasn't trying to be anything possible nine 11 for So it didn't matter The 9 9 6 GT three RS what maximum engineering could do. It showed that Ren Sport visual cues that had made with it like lightweight wheels and blue or red to match the decals on the side. And best of all, we got it here. So how do you follow up on greatness? How could Andy avoid Well, starting with a winner, to the poor reception of the 9 9 6. The 9 9 7 was an immediate in 2005. A GT three followed in 2006 and for once, we didn't have which arrived in 2007. And when I say we, I mean Americans go this time, Porsche took the to get on board the RS because this one was a huge step forward. The car was lighter than the wider, and had an even bigger down force at speed with the 9 9 7 GT three Rs 4.0 offered in a road legal nine Think about that, a with no turbos making before the GT three Rs. That was the kind of in a race car. Yeah, once again, the around the Berg ring brother, the GT two. But that was no longer the top nine 11 because with the 9 9 7 got ified, but the GT because of sibling rivalry. It was invented because Nissan showed up and broke the Bergen time record. The development of the GT Project 7 2 7 named for the by the mighty R 35 GTR to ensure success. Porsche engineers gave the shed 154 pounds over the regular GT two and achieve the top speed of 205 miles an hour. The Nissan and GTR is a great car, but it simply couldn't Engineering might. In the end, the GT two beating the Nissan by nine seconds. But here's the thing It's more powerful, more turbocharged, and more expensive than the GT three RS, but it's not better. It's different. In the words the GT two RS is the hand of God Porsche. It's designed primarily for maximum even gratuitous The GT two RS is a machete. The GT three RS is a scalpel. The G GT three Rs is the one that the engineers really and innovation into. And with the 9 9 1 apparent if the 9 9 7 was RSS surprising. Sophomore album, the 9 9 1 GT three Rs is the Darling to full-blown stadium rock. God, Drake, it's their Chapel road moment. People hadn't always been These were nerdy the product with engineering that made and incredibly uncomfortable and difficult to drive, at least compared to a regular nine 11, but it also made them incredibly cool. Now, every historically to mid-century modern to serve a purpose. Okay? Blue jeans were to meet the needs of Every detail serves that purpose. The rivets add strength at the The triple stitching prevents tears. Even the color was chosen for toughness. Indigo dye only partially as the outer layer fades Some of the dark pigment that is seeped further Mid-century. Modern design gave us some of the most distinctive and coolest buildings, homes, But these were primarily and simplicity, stripping away and having the ability Materials like plastic and plywood were chosen for their low cost making And because those materials and in buildings, spaces were to aim the mind by freeing Of course, lots of things are but the ones that rise up because they end up serving that purpose better than anything else. That's because somebody what they were creating and why these creators remain and are authentic in their purpose. It doesn't matter what other people think. It doesn't matter what the market thinks. They know what they're doing to make something great. They aren't designing They're designing it to be the best. A firm, a machine like of pieces all moving together. The only way to achieve that with its design. Its engineering. Nobody ever That obsession is what RS It's the highest performing nine 11. That is possible at the time. The letters RS are reserved of the nine elevens, which is a pretty great car in any form. And that means that in its final form, it's a world beater. Yes, Porsche, sometimes McLaren or the other guys are faster. But the sum of an RS Porsche's power that other race cars for the road simply can't touch. It's where engineering becomes art. It turns out that a with function is a thing that's also incredibly We can see that it's a Humans love to win. We're So do mid-century modern homes and no car looks nearly as cool as a nine 11 parked in front of a mid-century modern The RS models are built and take extreme measures to get there. That's a process of building It's an engineering for every RS nine 11. That starts with a base Carrera to make a Carrera two s and improved more for A GTS before finally landing at GT three rss. When that happened for almost nothing was left untouched. There wasn't some list that were engineered to racy perfection. It was the entire thing. The front fenders had louvers added. For better aerodynamics, the rear fenders had turbo like cutouts because that's where the Instead of on the rear that wing generated up to And speaking of engine, it was completely different with a 9,000 RPM red line and 513 horsepower that got the GT three around the berg ring in seven minutes. One second quicker than The inside was as you'd expect, roll cage racing harnesses handles that everyone made fun of. And then every other car to their own racey models. Porsche didn't do that to They did it because it is a race car and door handles are too fucking heavy. Porsche's commitment to only did create a problem. However, the 9 9 1 GT where a normal three pedal A lot of purists were how could a performance Well, this is wrench sport. It's not how pouch watch people It's about what actually The GT three race cars after the 9 9 6 generation. So the GT three RS had two as well. The only reason the 9 9 7 GT manual is because according PDK dual clutch Sequential gearbox wasn't advanced enough yet. And by the time the 9 9 1 that meant there was no real choice. The RS has to be the best The which brings us to today everyone, the current generation 9 9 2 GT three Rs, the 9 9 2 G GT three Rs as the only option. And like the 9 9 1, nearly every part is elevens that it's based on. One of the biggest changes is aerodynamics. RS engineers went as far Wishbone and steering to teardrop shaped to reduce drag and turbulence in the wheel wells. Its rear wing now generates up It has DRS, you know the by Formula One cars. It can be left in automatic or close based on vehicle data, or you can open it manually by pushing a button a Now adjustability becomes the theme with the 9 9 2 GT three RS. The shocks can be adjusted between eight settings and rebound and independently In total, the suspension has 6,561 possible configurations because 6,560 ain't enough, Jack, there's an adjustable differential with a steering wheel between full open and full lock. It can be adjusted independently for acceleration and coasting. The traction control has eight settings. Stability control has three. So why is it so adjustable with the 9 9 2? The RS engineers pulled yet they fixed the one to improve you. The 9 9 2 has so much adjustability to figure out how to make the best nine That's not laziness. It's a gift from one The GT three RS is made by with performance and getting The 9 9 2 GT three RS who are equally obsessed. It turns out that the perfect performance. They don't know where or how and there were too many possibilities. They're kind of stuck creating a solution that's somewhere in But the solution to that you the tools to solve What that means is the RS is a car that many car enthusiasts You have to reach a level to those engineers. The cars and coffee crowd, the Instagrammers flexing never been to a racetrack. Call it overrated, but the Chads and Chad adjacent aren't ready for it. They can't possibly understand it, which takes us all the way the five 50 by all accounts. What those engineers came You had to figure it out. The 9 9 2 GT three Rs The engineers have equipped it but ultimately it's up to And just like the five And at a time when cars are for us, one that leaves the thinking up to you is refreshing. It respects your nerdiness and that is cool. I told you guys it was Thanks for sticking And I wanna thank you for all the support that you guys have shown us. It's scary doing a new thing, but you guys being here has and we're just really stoked to get out on our own and do this. So thank you. Thanks again If you care about your family or your stuff, which you should click the Just go to the website, look at it. I'm sure you notice the Those are custom by our friend He also has a body kick Check them out. Just had a It's sweet. That's what Amazing writing, great Custom 3D renders humor, eight outta 10 other performance Put 'em all together. You got That's why you gotta click on. Simply Save, subscribe, subscribe. The subscriber and view number is directly tied to how I feel about myself at So I need that hit that So please subscribe, subscribe, subscribe.