You're familiar with the powers of 2, but lurking in their digits. through 9 its own color. This way, all the digits in the ones place the tens place are in the same column, and Now let's add a few more rows. Overall the structure inside this triangle But what if we just look at certain rows? Here's the thousandth row. so I've chopped if off after about 30 digits. And here's where things get weird, because Let's include some more data. What this is suggesting is that the last few as the last few digits of 2^(10^n). and better. numbers -- these large powers of 2 -- are Of course, they're not converging in the usual 2^(10^n) doesn't converge to anything as n It diverges to infinity. So what on earth does this Did we just discover the No, we discovered a number that belongs to a different number system What we'll see in this video is that if we change our ideas about which numbers are small then we get a new number system, where this This new number system provides an alternative to use them, instead of real numbers, in certain Before we go on though, let's take a minute so much in the first place. numbers as points on the number line. The real numbers contain all the integers The real numbers support addition, subtraction, They even support division. They also contain all their limit points, holes in the number line. The real numbers don't have everything we they don't contain square roots of -1 -- but On the other hand, the real numbers aren't that have many of the same useful properties, numbers don't. These are the systems of p-adic numbers. are the 2-adics, the 3-adics, and so on. Are these good names for number systems? Well, no. But if we're honest, To understand p-adic numbers, let's start Eventually every digit becomes 0. and closer to the number with all of its digits Since powers of 10 are close to 0, that means We can make this precise by defining a new Determine the highest power of 10 that divides Then divide 1 by that power of 10. For example, 78000 is divisible by 1000 but the real number 1/1000. 1 billion is divisible by 10^9 but not 10^10, The usual absolute value, which corresponds one way to define the size of a number. The 10-adic absolute value In each setting, numbers whose sizes are close to 0 as real numbers are, by definition, small So, according to the 10-adic absolute value, And as you take larger powers of 10, you get But wait a second. example a billion ants, that is not a tiny That is a lot of ants! a lot. But the thing is that we're definition of size. Our usual ideas of &quot;large&quot; and &quot;small&quot; are tied to the real numbers, then &quot;large&quot; and &quot;small&quot; have completely different The real absolute value nicely corresponds numbers are close when their first several But the 10-adic absolute value has nothing Under the 10-adic absolute value, two numbers are close when their last And by this metric, 1 billion and 0 are actually pretty close, because they agree to 9 digits. This is a good thing, too, because it means of infinite sums like the limit of 2^(10^n) It's not infinity; it's a 10-adic integer. A 10-adic integer is a sum that looks like and so on, is a number in the range 0 through For example, the limit of 2^(10^n) is the 7, 3, 9, and so on. Every positive integer is a 10-adic integer, because we can extend its base-10 representation Just like we can make sense of this infinite where powers of 10 get big, we can make sense of this infinite sum in the 10-adic integers, If we want, we can make the digits easier to see by putting the powers We have to introduce negative exponents to do this, which looks a little strange, but now it's closer to the So we know what a 10-adic integer is -- allow the digits to keep going infinitely Now we can revisit our table of properties and ask which properties hold But here's the bad news: There You might try to build one, say by placing 1000 close to 0, and then 1 million even closer But the problem is that different 10-adic For example, 78000 has size 1/1000. Which is bigger, 78000 or 35000? Well, neither. of the other, and there is no 10-adic number Since there is no 10-adic number line, there This lack of a simple geometry makes the 10-adic So we'll need to rebuild our intuition before But this is one of the most exciting things about mathematics. With enough exploration, Okay, so what about arithmetic? multiply, and divide 10-adic integers? Yes, in fact addition and subtraction work The only difference is that the process goes After all, when you add two goes on forever to the right. For example, let's take the 10-adic integer whose digits are all 9 and 9+1 is 10, so we write 0 and carry the 1. Then 9+1 is 10 again, so we and this just keeps happening. So the sum in this case is 0. This may be a bit of a surprise, but it means is actually equal to -1. We just discovered that the 10-adic integers In fact you can show that the 10-adic integers They're already built in without We can also multiply 10-adic integers. Surprisingly, the result is 1. of 6s with single 7 digit is actually 1/3. So even some rational numbers are But not all. is divisible by 10. 1/300 using powers of 10. But dividing by 10^2 shifts Since there are positive exponents now, this is not a 10-adic integer. Real numbers can have only finitely many digits 10-adic numbers can have only finitely many In order to get all rational numbers, at the very least we need to enlarge the 10-adic integers to But for the 10-adic numbers to be we'll want to be able to And this is the catch for base 10. We just saw that we can divide 1 by 3, But can we always divide a 10-adic number as long as we're not dividing by 0? The first sign that something is wrong comes This was the original 10-adic Let's call it x. Can we divide other 10-adic numbers by x? We're going to go on a bit of a The powers of 2 in the limit that To get from 2^(10^n) to 2^(10^(n+1)), As we increase n, both powers of 2 in this And that means that x^10 is actually equal to x. We can even check this for the first few digits After the last multiplication, Here's the first multiplication: x times x. Wait, what?! We got x back already! Well, it turns out that x^2 actually equals x, But this has some consequences, because it and neither x nor x-1 is 0. And here's where things really fall apart. If we could divide by x, then x/x would be 1. But then multiplying both sides by x-1 implies that x=1, which it's not. So we can't divide by x, because doing so What we've just seen is that there are certain even though they're not 0. So the 10-adic numbers? The good news is that this problem disappears If p is prime, then the p-adic of course as long as we're not dividing by 0. The reason that primes have this property but it comes down to the fact that the numbers so that when you multiply you get a number that is 1 Let's recap what we know so far. The p-adic numbers can't be organized along But on the bright side, they contain all integers. They support addition, and, since p is a prime number, Since they support division they also contain all rational numbers. What about their limit points? There are no holes in the real numbers because where every digit stabilizes then its limit consists of the stabilized digits, which is also a real number. The same idea works for p-adic numbers. There are no holes in the p-adic numbers because where each digit stabilizes if you go far enough, and this is again a p-adic number. We'll come back to square roots of -1 in a minute. At the beginning of the Now let's look at 2^(5^n). Rather than writing integers in base 10, we'll write them in base 5, Here's some more data. So, what are they converging to? Which 5-adic integer is it? If we call the limit x again, then we can Both 2^(5^n) and 2^(5^(n+1)) approach x, Can we say anything more? Let's square x, like we did When we add 1 to this number consisting of so this number is -1. analogue of i; it's the square root of -1. In the real numbers, there But in the 5-adic numbers there is. We can prove that this limit is the Since the 5-adic numbers support division, is for one of the factors to be 0. The first three factors are nonzero, The existence of p-adic limits like this is Let's mix things up by looking at a different the sequence of Fibonacci numbers. Let's choose p to be 2 and look at the (2^n)th The (2^n)th Fibonacci numbers don't converge But if we take every other row, we do get It's not at all obvious, but in fact these Be careful not to fall into the trap of thinking These aren't complex numbers! when you square them, multiply by 5, Since the 2-adic numbers contain square roots In the 2-adic numbers, since when we add 1 to this number we get 0. So what would a 2-adic integer There are two possibilities If it's 0, then 0*0 is 0, so we get a 0 in So the last digit can't be 0. If the last digit is 1, then 1*1 is 1, which What about the second-to-last digit? If it's 0, then 1*0 + 0*1 is 0, which If it's 1, then 1*1 + 1*1 is 2, This is still not what we want, so the We've tried both possibilities for the so there is no square root What about if p=3? Not there either. But the 5-adic numbers do contain square roots We saw this earlier; one of the square Try this on your own... Pick a prime number p and see if you can build a p-adic integer, from right If you do this for a bunch of primes, you primes for which this is possible. We've now completed our table of properties. So what are p-adic numbers good for? Well, here's one application: In other words, when is it highly divisible by 2? When we plug in the first few values of n, When do we get a value that's divisible by 2^6? Well, not till the 11th value, For 2^8, we have to go farther. For 2^9, we have to go up to 75. And the next record occurs at 181. And after that, it's not till 16203. So what are these numbers? If we are trying to make then we want it to have a lot of This means that we want n^2+7 to be Turning this approximation we see that we want n to be close if in fact the 2-adic numbers contain But it turns out that they do, and we can just like we might compute approximations in the real numbers -- using Newton's method. We set up the function that takes x to where f(x) is x^2+7. Then we pick a starting value for x and iterate. For example, we might choose x to be 1; Then we plug in -3, and the function outputs -1/3. Then we plug in -1/3, the In the real numbers, this After all, it's supposedly approximating a and the real numbers don't But, thanks to the 2-adic these rational numbers are also 2-adic numbers, and this sequence does converge 2-adically. By truncating one of these 2-adic integers, And, sure enough, n^2+7 is highly divisible by 2. Isn't that beautiful? So the p-adic numbers are worthy competitors They have many of the major properties that and, unlike the real numbers, they let us extend the rational numbers to properties of integers that are related to From there, they enable us to use powerful like limits, continuity, and derivatives, to get information about integers