- Alright, welcome back to Last year, Jason and Jaco hit the streets of New York in search of the They found some amazing talent. We even had several of There was Matthew on the and Ego on the trumpets. So talented. This season though, they're mixing up, doing things a little bit differently. Last week they set up and gave people the chance to belt out their favorite No rehearsal. We call (crowd cheering) Kellyoke with us (crowd clapping) - All right and the outcome (logo whooshes) - Jason! - Where are we? - We're in New York City, We're here to bring the - Music to the people! We got a good crowd here already. And we've just been - Two minutes. Setting up. The thing I love about so much joy to people and And so I think we're gonna get - Yeah. And we might get - Yeah, which is fine, as - Who wants to sing? (crowd cheering and clapping) - I'll sing. - Well, Come on out here. - [Audience] Woo! - What's your name? - Cindy. - Cindy? - That is my daughter Sophia. I am at 30 Rock for my daughter's - Happy birthday. - [Cindy] Happy birthday, baby. - Woo! Now your mom's gonna be on TV. - Woo! We we're walking home and we just happened to stop by and we're here. (laughs) - What do you wanna do today? - I'm gonna do &quot;Party in - Oh, I love Miley! - Jaco knows that one well. - Yeah. (upbeat music) I sang &quot;Party in the USA&quot; by Miley Cyrus. My husband is a big Miley Cyrus I hopped off the plane at LAX With a dream and my cardigan Welcome to the land of fame excess, Am I gonna fit in Jumped in the cab, here Look to my right, and I This is all so crazy Everybody seems so famous My tummy's turnin' and Too much pressure and I'm nervous That's when the taxi And a Jay-Z song was on And a Jay-Z song was on And a Jay-Z song was on So I put my hands up They're playin' my song, I'm noddin' my head like, yeah Movin' my hips like, yeah I got my hands up, They know I'm gonna be okay Yeah, it's a party in the USA Yeah, it's a party in the USA (crowd cheering) - Yeah. - Oh, I had a blast. (bright music) - Who's coming up next? - Who's singing next? Just keep the party going. Come on. - [Jaco] Yeah. What's your name? - Casey. How you doing? - Casey, I'm Jaco. It's a pleasure to meet you. - Hey, I'm Jason. I'm looking forward to - I work in the area, so just, you know, left work early, came from a walk and I saw this. I'm like, &quot;Yeah, I'm doing this.&quot; - So what are you gonna - I want to sing &quot;A Thousand Miles.&quot; - Ooh, Vanessa Carlton? - I love Vanessa. - Old songs from the movies. - [Jason And Jaco] Yeah. - It's a very sad song. People think of it as like but it's lots and lots of Makin' my way downtown Walkin' fast Faces pass And I'm homebound - [Audience] Woo! Starin' blankly ahead Just makin' my way, makin' a way Through the crowd - Come on up. - [Audience] Woo! And I need you And I miss you And now I wonder If I could fall into the sky Do you think time Would pass me by 'Cause you know I'd If I could just see you - And you, and you. Tonight - The crowd was awesome. They are all people from New They're cheering you - Great job. - That was awesome. I felt like I wasn't being judged. This was great. So yeah. - Did you like it? - Woo! That's what I'm talking about. - Pure fun. Thank you, thank you, thank you. - [Audience] That was so good. - Thank you. (crowd cheering and clapping) - All right. We have with us at the Welch's Zero We all have our drinks. Thanks, Lawrence, for keeping it classy. And say hi to Casey and Cindy! What's up y'all? - Hey, what's up? - How are you? and listening. Do you love singing? You love performing? - I love it to death. - Yeah. like karaoke specifically? Do you? - Well, I'm that person that when I have my friends we don't do bowling, we We go and do karaoke. - Yes. if they don't want to go. I'll go by myself. It's karaoke. Who cares? - It's so fun. - I love, yeah, you're specific good time. Well, Cindy, how did you feel - It was very nerve wracking. I was in the city for my and I wanted to show her like, you know, sometimes things can be scary, but- - Be bold. Be brave. - Yes. It's so much fun just to put yourself out there. - Ah, that's awesome.