Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And essential skills that you need to learn in order Amazon Web Services is the most popular cloud course is about getting AWS certified which is the entry level certification. And the you are going to be able to prove that you can work in AWS and you're gonna have a lot more let's get to this and start learning about AWS. I'm going to try to answer all the questions you certified cloud practitioner to determine whether so the CCP is all about AWS foundational can show that you know how to poke around and the general offerings from AWS, it's like a lite okay. But the CCP has some very unique offerings, they have a strong focus on billing and business going to make a lot of sense why a lot of people management because it's going to give them that reasons why to use AWS. Okay. Alright, so the next value does the CCP hold? Well, it's not a Gilda a recertification count if that's something that as an important certification for developers it's going to help you get a job, I probably won't it could be a good indicator that you're a little one circumstance. But generally, for developers, so maybe you're thinking so far? Hey, Andrew, this bother getting this and you might be thinking that that is not what you should do, you should it's for a totally different reason. It's because it's a very easy one, because it's the easiest certification, it's the perfect opportunity for take a real exam, okay, so the other exams, the difficult. And you don't want that to be your gonna go the exam center, you're going to be very wrong. And so by taking the CCP and going to test center and learn how you have to be on time, okay, and that is the big value out of the CCP. just some people day just to just prepare, start with a solution architect associate. the associate certifications. Alright, so let's to put in to pass this exam. Now, if you are a you can pass this in less than a week. If you're talking about a week and a half of study. And if have a lot of developer experience, or with a hours of study, but the thing is, is that you use this course and you will pass because it is a requirement. Okay, so that just gives you kind of so when it comes time to take this exam, you're partnered with AWS, and there are two test center before the only way you can take this exam, you Pearson VUE is part of AWS as its offering the for their proctored exams. So what is the proctor supervising or monitoring your examination and is that you can sign up and schedule an online just take the exam and somebody would watch you to it's even easier to get a VA certified because you But I would strongly recommend that you take it at just because when you go for this harder exams. And so I at this point, I recommend that want to get even certified, and you're really and now we just have some remaining questions it's $100 USD is the most inexpensive eight have that's the time that you're allocated during the you could probably get it done in under an hour I do recommend that when you go to the exam, questions. Because it is a very good habit to get the passing score is 70%. I think that actually it's kind of a floating number. So it's never the cloud practitioner, if you get over 70%, you certification, it's going to be valid for three long time. So there you go. Hopefully that answers cloud practitioner. Hey, this is Andrew Brown pulled up, because I'm going to give you a quick wants you to know, in order to pass this exam. going to scroll on down to the content outline, the weighting of the actual exam. So we have four technology, and billing and pricing. And so the And billing and pricing is the lowest amount which valuable thing in the entire course is billing and billing and pricing, AWS here. But that's just these four domains. So we understand what it is for domain one, we need to be we need to be able we need to be able to identify aspects of cloud architecture design principles, okay. of different AWS security services. And we need you need to know that for every single exam, it's that's part of the security donate onto all the core database services and also a bunch to know global infrastructure. Okay, so we're right. And then on to billing and pricing. So we pricing models for AWS recognize the various and pricing and identify resources available for So the next thing I wanted to go over with you is you're going to be presented questions in one and multiple responses for multiple choice, you multiple response, it's going to be two or more okay, but generally, I find that it's two out of thing here is white papers. So white papers are however, you do not have to read a single white that could possibly pop up in these white papers But just so you know, we have the overview of eight of us best practices, how AWS pricing so those are your four white papers recommended though, but they just say compare the a of a read about the support plans. Okay, so there you This is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we are most important question on our journey to become here is I've pulled up the textbook definition this and then I will give you a bit more context from the dictionary is the practice of using a to store manage and process data rather than so what does that mean? Well, to really understand providers, so now most people are using cloud their actual workloads. And prior to that everyone premise is you'd own the servers. So it'd be the to configure those servers and those applications, these physical servers. And you would take all today. And there's definitely good reasons to have now starting to use cloud providers. And so as I said earlier. And so here, it's someone else that hardware, and to different degrees, they or you have control over yourself depends on what IT people, and they're watching these servers pay for that. And someone else is paying for or real estate to house these servers, which are data So you're responsible for configuring cloud services. And so these cloud providers are going is generally what cloud computing is, Hey, this at the six advantages and benefits of cloud go with a cloud provider over on premise. Okay, have trade capital expense for variable expense. centers, and the servers. And so that would be you're paying on demand, so you only pay when you nothing else. Okay. Moving on to number two, we when you're using cloud computing, you have usage in the cloud. And so you are sharing the cost which you cannot get on prem. The next point here about infrastructure capacities. So instead of can scale up or down to meet the current needs. and they would either be underutilized because or they're just not being utilized all the time. agility. So with cloud computing, you can launch instead of waiting days or weeks for your it to we have stopped spending money on running a is that if you don't have to pay for the servers, can just focus on your customers, okay? So rather powering servers, and the last point here is go multiple regions around the world with, with experience for your customers at minimal costs. that data center is, I don't know how many people cloud computing, you're gonna have a lot more benefits of cloud computing. And this definitely six points. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam computing we have three here for us. So we have infrastructure as a service. And you can see you It's not a scheme scheme, it's just a way of So starting at the top here, we have Software as customers, okay, so the idea is that you have a the service provider. So you don't have to worry works and remains available. So if we had some Gmail or your office 365 or your Salesforce, okay, intended for developers, it removes the need infrastructure and focus on the deployment and is you don't have to worry about provisioning and it just works. So you have an app, you push it. So also Heroku, which is a very popular service. And Google. And then the last one on our list here intended for admins. And so when you're using as a services. So it's the basic building blocks features, computers, and data storage space. centers or the hardware, but you have access to okay, and so obviously, a, if you wanted to build up on top of IT infrastructure service, if you you could build that on top of the platform as So there you go. Hey, this is Andrew Brown computing deployment models. So there are three with the cloud on the left hand side work on to where you are fully utilizing cloud computing. So Basecamp, and Dropbox. And it is very well suited It's great for SAS offerings, where with on prem they need to deal with regulatory bodies, or, or that complicated. Or if it's new projects because they have existing infrastructure, So now going on to on prem. So on prem is when virtualization and resource management tools, and is still being utilized by a lot of companies so the government has on prem data centers, when hospitals, you have like health records, there is have large enterprises with heavy regulation. organizations are starting to soften and start and reasons, both technical and, and business or okay, then you have hybrid. And so hybrid is where So you connect the two with hybrid services. we see FinTech or investment management, or even of the reasons why is that they can adopt cloud or some of their customers or clients still are capacity, they are using a cloud. But it's totally they would just only use cloud. So there you can the C CPP Investment Board, that's a Investment a large professional service. So those are the this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we are we're going to figure out here is where does all 69 azs, within 22 geographical regions around more than available. azs. But what does that all customers in more than 190 countries and they're help customers achieve low latency and higher our region's azs, and edge location. So a region multiple azs. An AZ is one or more discrete data data centers owned by a trusted partner of AWS that we have that overview, we're gonna jump into Andrew Brown from exam Pro, and we are looking And so a region is a geographically distinct also known as azs for AWS. And I've highlighted in most important thing you need to remember about an independent of every other region in terms of has at least two diseases. So again, an AZ is a running within that region, the largest region new services almost always become available first all regions. Okay. So if you definitely want to bet is to switch over to US East, and US East one, you see all your billing information. All right, I have a bunch of flags. For the countries where all of them in here. But I definitely have a lot here. So now that we know what a region is, of regions. Okay, so I just hopped over to the a little bit more about regions visually. And so are really just a particular continent that has you can see we have regions on the west coast and North California. And we have Canada and North there's only two availability zones. And they announced. So AWS can always say that they but they're definitely coming close to being able which is very important because most companies So now going on to South America, you can see in Brazil. And then we have over here in Europe. Frankfurt, Paris, and Brahim, I'm sorry if I and then we have Ireland. Okay, sorry, Ireland. I on to Asia Pacific. So we have Mainland China, Australia there Tokyo such Japan, Seoul, so that in mainland China. And we have another place is India. And then we have Hong Kong. So that's and then we just hop over here to the regional offered. So when we said that not all services for example that Amazon Connect is only available North Carolina, okay? And then deep lense really everything is north Northern Virginia. You can And this is also broken up based on those you can see Ireland seems to be having all the looks like I guess Singapore Singapore looks like so there you go. That is hey, this is Angie brown zones, also known as AZ. So an AZ is a data of us services run. Each region has at least two able to say that they have at least three ACS and followed by a letter identifier. So US East one the data center. Okay, and so from North Virginia, okay, then we want to just talk on the concept of instances across multiple availability zones, handling requests when one AZ goes down. Okay, to note is that the latency between availability these days, these are purposely positioned to you go. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, is all about getting data fast or uploading data owned by a trusted partner of AWS, which has locations serve requests for CloudFront, and of these services will be routed to the nearest transfer acceleration and API, a gateway. And to upload data quickly to AWS, you're going to use edge location to then transfer stuff quickly via this is that edge locations allow for low latency located. Alright, so we're back on the AWS website but this time, I want to give attention to little blue dots here, and you can see there we have an idea of how many edge locations there just in Atlanta alone, there are five. And so they so just to give you an idea, those are the ones a few there. Okay. for Brazil, then in Europe, we we have more edge location. So there you go. we're going to take a look at Gov cloud. Okay. allows customers to host sensitive controlled regulated workloads. So the Gov cloud region is and us or on US soil. So it's definitely not a US identity and root account holders who pass a region. So who is this very special region for cloud solutions that comply with FedRAMP, the traffic and arms regulation, export administration so it just makes it a lot easier if you're working utilize cloud computing. Okay, so I just hopped regions page, because I just wanted to highlight are two, there is one on us West and US East. As clouds other than for us at this time, maybe in but for the time being, it's just the US. And detailed here, you can see all the nice graphics So if you want to build something and sell it industries, by using Gov cloud, you are going business a lot easier for you. So yeah, that's from exam Pro, and I'm going to show you how to the AWS homepage, and we have two buttons that we click the big orange button to create our account. going to go ahead and do here. Okay. Okay, great. here. So I'm going to go ahead here and just fill at exam pro.co since this is a fresh account, of password here, I'm going to call this the exam go ahead here and continue. So, now in order provide some additional information here. So I'm to fill in this information here. Okay, and so I'm Okay, so now I have that information filled in to say that I agree to their customer agreement, Now, in order to use AWS, you have to have a valid card. Okay? So that's just something that you're and provide my credit card here. Okay. All right. So I'm just gonna go ahead and verify and add. on my phone number, this is definitely something phone number here. Okay, great. My phone numbers check here. So we'll just fill that in. Okay, and so that text message came in here. So I'm just Okay. And great. So now we're verified. Okay, so definitely going to go with basic here. Great. And here. Um, I don't really need to do any of this. So now that we've created our account, I believe not sure if we have to confirm our email because give it a go here and see if we can log in. Okay. the password. Great. So we have made it into this So there you go. And maybe we'll just have to we need to do. But yeah, we're in good shape. what we're going to do now is make sure you do not to do that. So there are some billing preferences, Eva's budgets, and we're also going to create a also through as to like the advantages and also just make sure we do not get over billed you to do is I want you to make your way over to I'm going to go to my billing dashboard. And when hand side here and go to billing preferences, preferences here. And they're all really good. So I would check that on receive free tier usage you have a free account, you want to know when you just provide your email there. So I'm just gonna and then we have received billing alerts. Okay, is this detail billing reports down here. This with cost and usage reports, okay. So it's not you how to use cost and usage somewhere in this make sure these are all three ticked on, provide now you're going to be in the loop of some of we have these preferences set up, let's make our go to the top here and we're going to type in allow you to tell you whether you are getting over or it's going to also provide some forecast was budgets here has loaded, what I want you to do in AWS. So we can definitely set to there that doesn't sound like a lot. But if you made per month. Okay, so for more additional ways of which really are inexpensive or end or free. But least have one budget set here for all costs. So All right, and we will leave it monthly here, I think it's two. We want this to be a reoccurring and we're going to set it some something very the free tier, we should not be expecting to see bill there. And we definitely want all costs is checkbox there. So we'll go ahead here and our email against Andrew plus fresh at exam, it's already been added. You could also use SNS, get alerted when we are approaching it. So we going to set it to 100. Because $20 to me is not a And leave that for actual, okay. And I'm going to and so we don't have any information here. But if you are using an account where you're doing see more information. Okay, great. So we've created there, let's go make a billing alarm for go to services and type in cloudwatch. Okay. And way over to alarms. All right. And so we're going it's going to tell us is that we need to switch US East one, okay, so generally, it's always good is we'll go up to the top here and switch to we can now set our billing alarm. Okay. So, notice free email notifications. So it's definitely more a lot more functionality there. But you can use a new ability alarm. And I'm just going to scroll I'm just going to set a larger amount such as then is going to alert me. Okay, and we'll we'll look at some additional configuration. This next thing is, we need it to actually notify us. oh, I think I already had one here. So it was not So it's going to need an SNS topic, we don't and we'll call this notify me. Okay, and then we will hit Create topic. And then we'll go ahead Bill 100 building alarm. I don't know if it'll let always leave out spaces. Great. And so we're just looks good. And so now we have a billing alarm. billing alarms. So you could have one at 100 and And of course, you definitely want to make use of can utilize. So maybe once you start using your you just want to monitor that you create a budget here. And the only thing that is left to do is we to this so that our billing alarm it will take was sent to me for the billing alarm there for SNS topic. I guess we only have to do this once. confirm but I'm just gonna go ahead here and hit there, okay. And I think if I do a refresh here, Okay, so just has nothing there, which is good. worry about getting overbuilt. Alright, so there's account fully set up. So we can start working with over to IBM. So just go up here and type in IBM. place that I am here. And so we have a bunch of we need to turn MFA on our root account, we need do not want to be using the root account, which to set some groups and assign permissions and and do that. But just before we do, I just want can do here is changed this URL. So just go ahead pro fresh, okay. And that is a unique name. So it's taken through, just have to change it until have that set up, let's go turn on MFA. So we're specifically, the root account here. And the email and password to this root account, then So by turning on MFA, there's going to be an when somebody logs in, they're gonna have to delivery mechanism. So just let's go here and here and just say what we're already doing, which gonna click off there, go to MFA and activate MFA. options. We have virtual you, UTF, and other devices. That's what we're going to do. So we're Okay, and what we want to do is we want to install going over here, if we scroll down, it's going to know authenticator is one, so I'm just going down here. So if you're on Android or iPhone, I'm using Google Authenticator, I find here is you'll just hit show QR code. And then you're going to open up the authenticator app. I have to talk my way through it here. And there's a scan a barcode. And so now I'm holding my, my the code, it saved the secret. So now what I going down here, I'm going to enter this code in there's a little wheel that is spinning, and it's and so now it is now 984816. And so I'm just going on. So now that we have MFA turned on, we can to the next step. So now we're going to proceed we do not want to be using the root account, which ourselves a user. So we'll hit Manage Users here, a new one called Andrew Brown, we're going to give we're going to let it auto generate a password requires a password reset the next time this user groups. So we're going to create a group here. And I should say, and we're going to give it want to be giving too many users admin access, root account. But for our purposes here, this is admins within your entire account. But generally and this is it gives you full access. But there ability to manage users and groups. So power user we are going to stick with admin. I'm going to next Review. And we will hit create user. And access key ID a secret and a password. So I'm going to copy these off screen. Alright, and then at least my password off screen here. And what way back to the IM console. So just go up here and so now we have done pretty much everything just before we go ahead and set a password policy, user. So we have this nice long URL here. So I to do is we're going to log out and now a log here and log out. Great. So I'm logged out here. paste in that URL up here, which will bring us to that link. Or if you can remember that alias, you there. So my name was Andrew Brown here, I'm just I'm just going to hit sign in here. Alright, and I'm going to provide the old password and we are I'm logged in, not as the root user, but as a new I want to go back to you I am here. And the reason key and password to you. And anytime that actually user there. And I'm gonna go to Andrew Brown here, And you can see that was that access key and you it inactive, and then I can create myself another secret this time around. But it's just, you know, you're definitely going to want to reset them it doesn't matter because I reset my password all set up. What we will do is we will log out of account to set up a password policy. Okay, and I console, it's going to show me this filled in. And we actually have to click this link down below. if I wanted to log back in as that user, and it would bring me back to here and I would logging in as the root user, I'm just gonna click a little bit confusing, but that's just how it so I can't just log in willy nilly. So I'm just authenticator, and I have to provide it that code. gonna be 904361. I'm gonna hit submit. And so way back to I am and do that last step. And so we And let's apply an IM password policy. So we'll go what we can see is a bunch of stuff. And we really password policy. And now we can see some rules. require at least one uppercase one lowercase, these enable password expiration. Yeah, I could do reset, maybe not allow users to change their own ensure they don't use the same password, I would we'll leave it as five. And we'll save changes. should satisfy that entire list. And so we have so from now on, you should just log in as that this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And now through the motions Using some of the most common some confidence here on the platform itself. And this is not going to be a very difficult section, but just to again, gain confidence. And just that you are in the north Virginia region. Okay. reason why it's one is because there's another because it came first. But based on the region that you have, because not everything is available all regions. But like, if I was in Canada Central, centers, where in North Virginia, we have like definitely going to be in North Virginia. So I'm and follow along with me there. Okay. So the first how to launch a server. So a server is going to we will type in EC two. And we will make our way I want you to go ahead and launch a new instance. hit launch instance. And now we're going to be our server. So we are going to choose what OS Linux two, because it's part of the free tier. learning. The next thing we need to do is choose called instance types. And so you can see that get larger, we're going to stick with TT micro we want to save some money. going next to instance to start an instance is a server. So if you have of options here, we're going to launch it in is going to be auto assigned a public IP. So it's to create an IM role here. So what I want you to a new tab, because we want to give this a bit of the IM Management Console. And I want you to make going to be presented with a bunch of options. So TC two, we're going to go to next to permissions. use Amazon easy to roll for SSM. SSM is simple us to actually log into that machine. Okay. And so my easy to roll. And I want you hit Create roll. will just go ahead and close that tab there and we so we'll hit the refresh button here. And we'll that set up, we are going to leave everything here you can choose how much storage you want. you change the volume type, we're gonna stick with launch. And we are going to hit launch. And it's key pairs are used to get into the server. But we which is another way of logging into the server. Okay, I will just say I acknowledge that I will I already know the built in password, which is not but we will go ahead and launch this instance. In order for us to see it, you can either go view Alright, and so now this instance is launching, waiting for two status checks to pass. So this is going to wait for this to initialize. And once go. Okay, so after a short Wait here, I think I now running and it also has two checks. So that that our server is running, we'll just take a peek information such as when it was launched. The was the default one what size it was, and we can IP addresses. Okay, so now that the server is we are on the free tier. So I guess technically and we're not going to shut it down just yet, but to terminate, and that would shut the server down. we could also stop the instance. And that wouldn't more. And we'd also be saving money, okay, so will ensure that you save money. So now that this to this instance. Alright, so there's a couple One way is using SSH. So if we had created that server here. Or we can use simple SYSTEMS MANAGER, and AWS, AWS is recommended way, which is what to SSM, I want you to right click here and just giving you instructions. So if you had downloaded you would have had to do a bunch of other stuff. get into it. So there are instructions there. so this is another way to connect, I'm not sure if but I'll just give it a go here. And it did. So way to access it. So actually, I'm in the server get in is via simple SYSTEMS MANAGER. So I'm just go the top here and type in SSM, which is for display the simple word there anymore, definitely here, I want you to go to the left hand side and a session. And so we can see we have our instance. set it with that SSM UCT roll that was so that here of using sessions manager, it's going to log start on that session there. And so it's very it actually logs in as the root user not too easy to do sudo Su, EC to hyphen user. And now we are So you know, that's how you gain access to it, instance, today. So I want you to go ahead and there. But that session history is recorded. you're going to have a bit more visibility over might not provide that same visibility without you we'll make our way back to the EC two console once we are here, I want you to go on the left our server. So we now know how to get into this to go ahead and stop this instance here. So I want way, it's not going to cost us anything. And now ami. Alright, so now we're going to learn how as like a snapshot or like saving a copy of your to the mixer, the instance is selected there go create an image now we could create an image, terminated, the server wouldn't exist anymore, we'll go ahead here and create an image. And we So I'm just going to call this fresh hyphen an instance volume. And so that is the hard drive it as the default settings and create an image. pending image creation. So we'll click on this is created now doesn't take too long. The idea to launch another copy of this us the server, but the real reason I wanted to do to set up up an auto scaling group and we're going to need here in a little bit Once this is done, and I just and so now if we wanted to launch a version of the to the second step. So if we go back here, you we were to proceed through this, it's a way for us or just so that we have a copy of it, so we can to the AMI there, I'm just gonna click on left know for ami, and we'll move on to auto scaling we are ready to make an auto scaling group. So groups. And so what an auto scaling group does is or servers are running. So if you always wanted scaling group would have a rule that would check launch a new server. Also, auto scaling groups you have. So let's say you have a web application it's going to need more servers will auto scaling that the the web application needs more servers, the the demand of traffic becomes lower than it's so what we'll go ahead and do here is they just change this ami. So I'm a little bit I think that's just a bit of a thing there. And very similar to launching a situ instance. But we am eyes, I'm just going to select that fresh one we'll go next, we're going to have to name it this fresh LC, we're going to use the my EC t roll The defaults look great there, the security groups launch configuration and we are going to drop the need one, we're going to create that launch launch configuration, we can go ahead and create this one fresh as G is CS for auto scaling group, number of instances the group should have at any running, then we have to have a, a network or a going to choose one and then we're going to choose there, I'm just gonna check advanced details, our scaling policies, scaling policies are ways scaling group should react to changes within CPU utilization, maybe that's when it spins up data transfer in or when there's a lot of memory. then we'll go to notifications, then we'll go to and create that auto scaling group. Okay. So it we'll hit close. and here we can see our fresh, which is our fresh LC, currently, there are zero the minimum servers that should be running as one, okay. So if we just move this up here and go to servers to meet the minimum demand, which is one. kind of expecting to see a server starting here. you to do is right click here on instances, and So I don't see any servers running here as of because usually, they would just start spinning little moment here, because maybe it's just we just had to wait even just a minute there. that this is now one. And under our instances, an instance that's just the ID of the instance. do a refresh here, we can see a another instance is we're going to just wait for that instance to next step. Alright, so after waiting a few minutes going to select this one off here, but this is of our auto scaling group. So Again, we said that always at least a minimum of servers running. so I'm just going to go ahead and terminate it, we're gonna go back to our auto scaling group, healthy. Okay, so see over here that says healthy that it is unhealthy, and then what it will do as So we're just going to wait here for a little bit right. And so we can now see that this instance group is going to respond is by launching a new a little bit and just keep on hitting this refresh to replace this unhealthy one. Okay, so I just hit gone. And so I guess what we're just going to replace that unhealthy one. So just to get back so we'll just go ahead here and just refresh. And server that is starting up. So we'll just wait now accomplished what we wanted with auto scaling group. Alright, so our replacement instance is now ahead and remove this auto scaling group. Now group, it's going to take down the instance as So I'm just going to go ahead here and delete the Okay, and so we are going to just watch that since we have that instance, tab open, we'll running. So what we're hoping to see is that this auto scaling group. So we'll just wait here a so if we were to do a few refreshes there, it spun up by the auto scaling group. So when you take down those instances as well. So you know, and we can move on to elastic load balancer. Hey, going to learn about elastic load balancers, also to put a load balancer in front of your instances. web application, it's going to flow flow through distribute that traffic to multiple instances. different availability zones. So if one AZ becomes other AZ where you have an instance running, web application remains running. Okay, so now that launch a few instances so that we have something Amazon Linux two here, we are going to stick with select a two instances here, okay. And we're we'll give Iam role we do not need to SSH into or doesn't hurt to attach it there, we're gonna leave going to go to our security groups, I'm going to every time you create an instance, it seems like groups, we don't need to have a bunch of these. I'm going to review and then launch, I'm going because we don't need a key pair. And so now these just going to wait until they get into a running and create our EOB. Alright, so our two instances them a name. So I'm going to just call this one B. Okay. And now that I have those two instances, here. It's under the ECG console. And so we will ourselves a new load balancer. Now there are three balancer, network load balancer and classic load load balancer here and that's generally what to type in a lb Or maybe my al v here, it will be running in at least two availability zones, or and do that, we will go to the next step here, to do anything here. For security groups, we will so that's totally fine. And for configuring target group, a target group contains a reference route traffic to. So we are just going to make a can route things to different things. So it could going to stick with instances. And we're going to we can see we have instances here, I'm just going are registered up here, we're going to hit next. and so it takes very little time for load balancer load balancer is now just provisioning. So we're this is provisioned. And you just have to hit the so our load balancers ready didn't really take just to poke around here, you can see that this DNS name, just looks like a domain name. And the load balancer is you would actually point it to and then it would then go on to the listeners, So this is Port 80. And then it's going to then to that target group. If we click into this is it's going to show us the actual targets. So if then route it to the registered targets. So that's we really need to know for this, but just to show that we're done here, let's go tear this stuff go delete this load balancer. Now, unlike the auto instances, we have to take these instances down a and b here, and we are just going to terminate balancer section. Alright, so we're gonna learn do is go to services here and type in s3. And we And so the first thing I want you to notice that does not require a region selection. However, the specific. And the idea here is a bucket is just just create a bucket here, and we're going to give Now these names are globally unique. It's just have here selected is not available, you'll just to choose choose the region. So I'm going to go a bucket, and we can start uploading files to this And what I'm going to do is I'm just going to add of me, I'm going to hit open here, I'm going to here in s3, okay, and so if I want to download And that will allow us to download that file. And do in s3, but that is just the most basic things going to delete this bucket because we're going to is using CloudFront. Okay, so I'll just gonna make move on to the next part. Alright, so we're going used as a CDN, a content distribution network. And files or video files that you want to share across as possible and make the shortest route to the a content content distribution network comes in. is. It's going to then copy it to multiple edge tries to access your content, it's going to go really far away to get that content. So let's services and type in CloudFront. Okay. And we will to create ourselves a distribution. And we'll just and just choose that s3 bucket that we created. totally fine. So we're just going to go down and creating distributions take quite some time upload that one file to my bucket there. it's going to copy that file and then move it to my content is a super fast, okay. And just like where you could hit it like a domain name to here, we have a domain name here, so your traffic route your traffic to the nearest edge location. distributions take a really long time to create. complete. So I'm going to just disable this here, disabled, you can delete it, even if you don't here because it will be disabled. But yeah, once it and then delete it. Alright, so that's alright, relational database service. And it is for setting your way over to the RDS console. So go to the top we're here in the console, we're going to create here, go to databases, and then create a database. options here. Okay, and so by default, it has the most expensive options, so we definitely do not for our case here. And the next thing is we have production, dev test and free tier. And these are production is, if you are a larger, a very, very Bell and whistle under the sun here, we're def free tier is definitely just for a gain hands or just for testing simple application. So I just they have a calculation down below. So if I scroll production, it's $600 a month, which is quite and we scroll down here, now it's $262, still and now there is no cost shown because it is and so on for a T two micro and then once that a month, it will cost you around $15 per month. you can run on the free tier and the lowest tier AWS decides to always have the most expensive be careful there. So let's go to free tier because identifier, we'll leave that alone, that's just going to type in Postgres 123. Okay, and then we of course want to leave it on T to micro instance there's nothing smaller. There's no nano it's set to 20 gigabytes, there is auto scaling the size of that runs out. I have to turn that multi AZ you can determine where this RDS leave in the default. For database authentication, or if you want to allow Im users to authenticate cool. I'm just going to leave it to password configuration which you definitely want to set. do not specify database name RDS does not create a database So we're gonna have to name this here. we're going to turn backups off. Okay? And oh, I I'll just remove that. Actually, it looks like so if we turn this off to zero days, that means or a backup right away, it's going to launch a lot you know, let's just get through this as quickly I'm going to turn that off as well. And, yeah, we that database. Okay, and so we're just going to And it will just take a little bit of time here. our database is available here. And you can just as the CPU usage currently, and how many current Now, in order to actually access this database, you'd have to use this endpoint, you'd need username, password, which we had set earlier. table plus or something to make a connection and for our purposes, it was just a matter of showing now that we have created our own database, let's And so I'm going to go ahead here, and I just for you. So this will just delete here, I'm just I'm just gonna go back to the management. So we're how to run a lambda function. So what I want you type in a lambda. And we'll make our way over to you to go ahead and create a new function. And we gonna say a my lambda, okay, and we have a bunch we have no GS, etc, I'm gonna choose Ruby, because down here, and we are going to have it create that it can write to cloud watch logs, and we're great. So that function has now been set up you can see that we have this nice little inline okay. And so the big benefit of lambda, it's, you just write your code, and it will run. The a small amount of time. So lamda can only run for run for one second or less. That's definitely how put a puts in here. So I can just say hello world, we can do here is we can go up and make a test. And we already have one here called hello world. world. Here, oh, maybe I have to do this. And I'm And I'm just going to go ahead and hit test there. status code. So this is what it would return. if we were to go to monitoring here, all right, have there. Okay, so we just click on this button that lambda ran there. And you know, the reason I there really finicky about that. And now if I hit actually has HelloWorld. Okay, so that's from the refresh here, okay, I might have to go back one and we should have our, our puts, click the right so I've just been patient here, but it showed pretty darn simple. And just going back here a variety of different services. So if you want and choose a service. So you could have it. So it would then trigger that lambda function or even integration with third party, third party, need to know for lambda. So we're going to take a ways we can pay with EC two, we have on demand go through each section and see where each one look at on demand pricing. And this is whenever default use on demand, and so on demand has no you're only charged by the hour or by the minute that's how the pricing is going to work. And you on demand is for applications where the workload when you have a new app for development, or you on demand is going to be a good fit for you. also known as r i, n, these are going to give you applications that have steady state predictable doing is you're saying to AWS, you know, I'm gonna this over next period of time, and they're gonna is going to be based on three variables, we And we'll walk through these things to see how standard convertible and scheduled standard is reduced pricing. And this is compared to is that you cannot change the ri attributes, So whatever you have, you're you're stuck with because you might need to have more room to so the savings aren't going to be as great, the ability to let's say, change your instance but you can always go larger, and you're then there's scheduled and this is when you need This could be the case where you always have a for a couple hours. And the idea is by telling they will give you savings there that's going to options. So terms is how long are you willing greater the terms, the greater the savings, and partial upfront and no upfront, no friends, the know, I'm going to use a server for a year, and And so that is a really good way of saving money. know that. So you know, mix those three together. And I do here have a graphic to show you that you estimate the actual cost for you. A couple things can be shared between multiple accounts within a be sold in the reserved instance marketplace. So you're not fully out of luck, because you can might want to use it. So there you go. So and they have the opportunity to give you the demand pricing. There are some caveats, though. So so they want to maximize utility of their idle offers discounts to fill vacant suites, or when a so they're just easy to answer this is lying discounts then for them to do nothing. So the only if another customer who wants to pay on demand give that capacity to that on demand user. This okay? And that's going to be the trade off. So down below. instances can be terminated by Avis at you don't get charged for the partial hour of you will still be charged for any hour that it caveat to it. Um, but what would you use spot be interrupted anytime? Well, they're designed End Times or applications that are only feasible I pulled out the configuration graphic Is it for load balancing workloads, flexible duration workloads. So you can see there is some have there. But there you are. So we're taking expensive option with EC two pricing models. And you have strict server bound licensing that won't really understand dedicated hosts, we need to So whenever you launch an EC two instance, and beside dedicated hosts, it's multi tenant, meaning customers, and the only separation between you and which is software, okay, then you have single dedicated hardware. And so customers are separated so to just compare these two, I think of multi and single tenant is everyone living in a house. own dedicated hardware? Well, large enterprises obligations about sharing the same hardware with to that with dedicated hosts. It comes in an on can save up to 70%. But overall, dedicated hosts options. So we're on to the CPU pricing cheat our way through it. So EC two has four pricing also known as RI and dedicated looking first at you. It is low cost and flexible. You only pay term spiky, unpredictable workloads, or first time workloads that cannot be interrupted, whereas and we'll get to that here shortly. So onto it's gonna give you the best long term value. usage. You can resell unused reserved instances pricing is going to be based off of these three So for payment terms, we have a one year or we can either pay all upfront, partial upfront we have standard convertible and scheduled. So for compared to on demand. But you cannot change those to a larger instance type, it's not going to be want a bit more flexibility we have convertible flexibility. As long as those ra attributes are those values, then you have scheduled and this is time periods. So maybe you want to run something are gonna vary. Now on to our last two pricing 90% off, it's gonna give you the biggest savings. computing capacity. So you know, as we said just trying to fill the vacant suites. If you are Times spot price is going to be good for you. The so servers randomly stopping and starting, it's a jobs. instances can be terminated by ABS at any you won't get charged for that partial hour you will be charged for any hour that it ran it's the most expensive option and it's just utilized and on demand or reserves you can save up a guarantee of isolette hardware. So this is like all the way through ECP pricing. Alright, so there so these are free services. So for example I am, roles to access a different resources, creating to incur a cost. So I am is essentially a free are free, such as auto scaling cloud formation but they can provision other AWS services, not be surprised if you come across a question, incur a cost, but you just need to know that the services. Okay, so I've highlighted in bold here, up on the exam. But I've given you more of a full So there you go. So each of us has four different And when you first make an AWS account, you by going to give you access via email for billing and about the cost of something or you think that you that you may be overbuild. Because you might have to you at all tiers. But yeah, that's the first send them an email, and they'll help you resolve gonna start with developer starting at $20 USD, support via email, okay, and generally, they will choose the response time, like the nature of the reply. And so we have general guidance and system not provide third party support. So let's say you or Django or express GS and is running on an EC to instance, but they're not going to help you you know, again, rails or Django and etc. Okay. to, going into the next year business was starts access to chat and phone. And this is any time, morning, you can or chat with them. And generally, but they definitely will connect with you. And the other advantage here is that now that you can with them, so they can actually send you over a can work through the problem with you. And this is here, something worth purchasing, especially if also going to get faster response times, in the or down. Okay, so this might be important to you. does support third party, okay, so on these tears, through things that aren't database related to bonus, they're now coming into the enterprise at 15,000 USD, it was previously 10,000. But it because you actually get to dedicated resources, a personal concierge and a Tam which stands for new response time where they can respond within system down. Okay. So um, there's that and then we for the basic developer, we have seven, and then have another section in this course here where all those checks are. But for the exam, you're for the different tiers, you're going to need to 15 minutes, you need to know when are people You're going to need to know when third party go. So here in this follow along, I want to show in AWS support, I am using the business support of different support cases, I definitely have a of trouble. But anyway, let's work our way through going to be presented with a type of case you technical support would be grayed out, you'd and service limit increase. So if I just click billing thing, I can choose the type. So I'd say say I have a question about the free tier. And okay, Lord, I guess they call it the severity can attach up to three attachments there. And you so we have chat and phone, but these are disabled. in support here is technical support. Okay? So to be able to ask technical questions about Ada and we would type in a cloud front here, because lot of time on. And then you choose the category. based on the service. And on the right hand side, but we can go through here and say I'm having choose the severity. So we'll just leave it provide additional information, it's optional, you'd have to go through your account to find service. And then down below, we can write in issues with my distribution. Okay. My cash values so you can choose the preferred contact here. type of formatting or bolding. So you have to be a definitely want to try to create all the steps for we have web chat or phone. So we'll give chat a and then we will we will get here is, um, a chat here for a little bit. Well, I just wanted to give that window there and opened up a previous case I lambda edge. And so once you are chatting with this within the case later on. So if you need to be saved there later. If for whatever reason, the go off and try to replicate it or reach out to then they will come back to you with the answer And that's what happened in the case here. Okay, actually bring back even more information for you engineer had to go talk to the cloud formation can really reach the experts within AWS to solve the follow along here in a nutshell, for crina marketplace, which is a curated digital catalog software vendors, and allows you to easily find on AWS. So on the right hand side, there, you operating system security, machine learning, and categories. And now you have a bunch of products Amazon machine images, cloudformation, templates, And these products can either be free, or they the ladder and discharge will become part of your there is a sales channel for ISVs and consulting one buying but also selling, okay. So in this fall the things that you could possibly buy in here. we have a bunch of categories where we can narrow choose a vendor, if we knew in particular, what we quite a few here. Or if you want to determine and then you have those popular categories, maybe we would be interested in machine learning. that we are in machine learning, we can see that let's say we wanted to do some deep learning. going to click into here. And it's going to give I believe this is an Amazon machine image, I'm and right down there. So we see that the delivery to determine what that is. And we have a variety it'll do price estimating estimations based on the be useful information such as how to actually use I mean, you could create a subscription from machine images, you'd want to go ahead and launch hop our way over there and try to find something in my AWS account, and I'm going to make my way want to use a marketplace resource, generally, what service you're using. So there are laughs you're using laughs in the last console, you can an ami, it's going to be via EC two. Okay, so I And as soon as I launch an instance here, or you whatever it decides to load, we are going to be okay. Alright, so now we can choose our ami, marketplace. And so this is where it's going to subscribe to it. So if we wanted that machine so we typed TensorFlow there. I'm not quite to launch one here, so here we have deep learning some kind of associated cost here. So I go it's going to show me the pricing here. I don't one is an AWS, deep learning ami, it probably estimate that stuff out there. So maybe we'll know there will definitely be a cost. Maybe we a if you can spell it is a is a bastion, I'll it. And so here's guacamole, it gives you a free you see 0.3 cents to 33 point 52 cents per hour. and choose that ami and it can tell you that it okay. And then you just launch your instance. So I'll just do a small here, and I'm just and this is definitely not part of the free this immediately after creating it, okay. But I something from the aect marketplace here. Okay. And so now I actually have a subscription to that there usually doesn't take this long, but today, the actual ABS marketplace subscription. So you can go to ABS marketplace subscriptions here Canada region. So we'll have to move over because a lot of times with billing and other region. But here you can see we have guacamole, then I have over here a lamp certified by bitnami. using a bunch of things from the marketplace, and you're going to find that information. Okay? So for the ABS marketplace. And I'm just going to since I do actually not want to do anything with it was to start subscribing to a resource there. that instance there. So if you're following along, terminate that instance. Okay. And there we go. are looking at trusted advisor which advises service limits and fault tolerance. The reason are looking at billing and pricing. Okay. And you're going to get for free seven trust advisor support, you're going to get all trusted advisor trusted advisor is, is think of it as an automated advisor has five different categories where it can all the checks that are possible that are at the a few less, I honestly can't remember what they And we're just going to focus on the fullest here cost optimization, where you're going to be able will recommend you on is idle load balancers, and if you spin up an elastic load balancer, the say you just don't happen to have any easy two going to say, hey, this load balancer is not doing some money. Another one is IPS. So that's elastic have an easy to instance, and you want to give it AWS. But the thing is, is that it's not attached money, because AWS wants you to release that So that's a recommendation that will make to you utilization Amazon ECS instances. So for that one, CPU usage on an on a CPU instance, it's going to okay, to get better performance out of this, we have MFA on root account. And this is not but so many other services tell you to do it, within your AWS account. Another thing could be that are used by users. And it might suggest, hey, stay secure. Okay, so looking at the last two limits. So for fault tolerance, it would recommend so just to make sure that you have backups in that your database goes down, you can recover and there's none in particular chosen here. But things that you can use enables allows you to a safeguard for you to be less be allowed to go SEO. So SEO allows you to send out emails, and 10,000 emails. And if you had to go beyond that, so those are all the checks there and the five advisor can help you with. So in this follow dashboard and how it makes recommendations to discovers new things. Okay, so here in this so we have all the AWS advisor checks. So let's you can see that we have things in green. So these warnings. And one thing we explored earlier was an expand there, it's going to show us that we have currently associated with any running instance. then you'd have to go take action and go over to I associate that and you start saving money, okay. here. If you wanted to download a report, I XLS. Yep, that's an XLS there. So you can bring But the number one thing I'm going to show you actually set up email notifications on a weekly checkbox and save those preferences. And you would change, where it has recommendations for you, you need to do for trusted advisors. So there you go. billing, which is a feature that is turned on by and you have multiple member accounts. So you're master account within your organization. And then And all of their billing information is going the master account is going to be responsible for Okay, so it makes billing a very simple and to use cost explorer to visualize the usage of the the expenses, just for the developer account, or account, you're going to be able to segment that is offered at no additional cost, okay. And if leave the organization that cost export data is in consideration. Okay. So another thing we want discount. So each of us has volume discounts for use something, the more you are going to save lets you take advantage of volume discounts, accounts and treated as one and then whatever to end up in another bracket of lower discount. So from two different accounts we have odos usage and instead of the data transfer is going to cost at the next 40 gigabytes is going to be a 13 cents for odos usage and daxue separately, which would 2088 and 96 cents, okay. But when you consolidate going to have that usage overflow into tier two, okay. And so now you can see the consolidated roughly there about $80 worth of saving, okay, and we wouldn't get those savings. So that's one accounts and make sure they're in an organization. we are looking at AWS cost Explorer, which helps and usage over time. So with cost Explorer, if you all the costs will be consolidated into the master getting an overview of all your costs, no matter Explorer, you have these things called reports, by default that you can use. So if you need to or excetera, they're just one click away. And you Explorer, it has a feature called forecasting, plan for the future or maybe make adjustments so you want to view the data monthly or daily, that get these nice graphs within class Explorer. of different ways. You can see there's tons of a lot of options there. So if you want to filter regions or based on tags, or maybe you just maybe you have a developer account, you just want use those filters to narrow that stuff down. All And we are going to do a quick follow along here I have an exam pro at ghost account, which has find some useful information here to look at as here I am on the home, right. So if I was to click we're going to get month by month today cost. So then it's forecasting $466.18, I do need to point can be misleading. So if you have a large spike, have large services, so like you're paying for EDA time fixed costs, this value here can be extremely definitely know that. But you know, just be aware so just to start looking at information, we now we have our nice graph here. And it allows us we have that group by and so the most convenient you'll get is a stacked bar graph here, which always show everything. As you can see, here, we instances that are probably managed by AWS, maybe and then we have others, okay, so you don't get a down below, you can download the CSV and work with down monthly, so I can go to monthly here. Okay, it's a monthly breakdown. And you can change the But we'll just go back there and change it to here. So if you don't, like stacked and you like bars, okay, but stack stack is my preference we have filters. So if you want to start but what you do is you actually click here, okay, okay. If I can remember how to spell it, there we 53. And if I just apply that filter there, you can of different filters in here, okay, tons and tons. like linked accounts. So if you wanted to filter or something like a variety of different accounts, particular teams. Okay, and so that's that there. those default reports here, if you go on the left and so here are a bunch of them there, and you But yeah, you basically would just create whatever utilization there. I don't care about that. But just go ahead and make any report. You go cost and your configuration, you hit save, and you can have to monitor, like CloudFront. So CloudFront is and it can fluctuate based on how many people are to just create a report for CloudFront. Okay, so exam Pro. And we are looking at AWS budgets, which service costs and instance reservations. I like And when you use AWS budgets, each budget costs to a limit of 20,000 budgets, but the first two adverse account, you definitely want to go ahead All right. So we're looking at his budgets here, that you can set up alerts if you exceed or are types of budgets you can create. You have cost you're just plugging in $1 amount There, okay? unit. So you could choose something such as EC to whatever the unit is. So that's going to be ours can track budgets based on monthly, quarterly it for a year, then that alert is really going the year. Okay. So for reservations, that is for etc, to redshift or RDS and elastic cash, you can define them based on a fixed cost, or you level. So you could say for, for each, so for next to spend this and for this month, I want to spend you could say what you want those budgets to be manage Eva's budgets via the dashboard. And they programmatic, you can definitely do something but you could also have the notification that is a newer service for AWS integrates so those could, your budget information will be brown from exam Pro, and we are going to look at to set our own budget. So we'll go ahead here and gonna be presented with either a cost budget, going to choose cost. And we're going to set your monthly easy to budget, okay. And I could just say then we can choose the period. So monthly seems annually here, alright, you can have a recurring month. And then you can choose your budget amount. this is a little bit more complicated. So I guess were going up, you'd want to fill this go up and and you assume your budget would change based on set monthly budget planning, okay, but we'll go you can see it shows my last month cost was $126. per month, it will draw this line here and give and we could filter services. So if I wanted to just going to look for EC two, I'm not sure why instead, because that was a bit easier to find you just how that works there. Okay, and I'm just that out, there we are. Okay, and we'll just apply options there. But everything seems pretty good. alerts. Okay, and so you can get alerted if you're on the actual cost or forecasted, I would get so email if I had forecasted because forecasts within you could set the alert threshold. So when you're On the way there, it should send you an email, just say Andrew at exam pro.co. Okay, um, maybe I and you could also notify via Amazon SNS so if you there. But apparently, you do not have to do that have a new feature, which is the chat bot. So I that alert there. So nothing super exciting there. it integrates with AWS version of slack, which is there. So that's kind of interesting there. But We're going to get an overview of that. And we'll we have this budget, and we just have to wait some here. But generally what would happen is it will showed my budgeted my forecasted the current so yeah, there you go. That is a budget. So I through for those budgets and just what it looks exceeded the amount of $80. So when we entered in there. It just shows us that information. Okay, those budgets. Hey, this is Angie brown from exam which stands for the total cost of ownership. And save when moving to a dress from on premise. So it used in executive presentations, the tool is built fair assessments of value that you can achieve by reducing the need need to invest in large for approximation purposes only. So it's really a okay. But the idea is that you just launch the you're going to get a three years summary of detailed report, okay. All right, so we're going calculator here. So just Google and find your way this page, you know, you're in the right place, button. Now, it does take sometimes quite a bit that button and have it open here on a new tab. choose your currency, we're gonna stay with us premise or colocation, we're gonna say on prem. servers or virtual machines, you can see some and fill some stuff in here. So let's see if I can So maybe you'd have a non database server. So you it is using whoops, it is using the number of VMs, eight cores, and you're using that's 1024242048 too high, we'll just say eight gigabytes there. I'm going to add another row here. And we'll Postgres here, okay. We'll say Postgres. And running here. So we'll say two, and we will say, of memory here. And that's running on VMware. And storage here. I guess we could just put something maybe 500 gigabytes of storage. Okay. And so now ahead and hit Calculate the TCL. And we are just all right. All right. So after a little wait we have a comparison between on prem and AWS. And which would give us a total savings of $200,000 we get a cost breakdown, and we get the total the storage, the network, and now we have this this is, in the case that you have on prem, you're on AWS, it's, it's taken care of for you, okay, shows you your on prem environment, and then it if this is what you're using, this is what you'd we have some additional information, okay, compares those breakdowns for you. Okay, and then boy, that's a lot of stuff. methodology. Okay. presentation to make the case to move to AWS. that report. Okay. And that would download it as a TCL calculator. Hey, is Andrew Brown from exam which helps enterprises quickly set up a secure red there because if you read them Marketing but it definitely is because from what I remember, which but for enterprises would be a very little. startups. But the purpose of Eva's landing zone is started with multi account architecture. So what these companies and at best recommends that you to the company itself doesn't know how best to set and, and good for future growth. And so landing the way this all works is through a service which automatically provisions and configures And the way you're going to access these accounts the environments here are customizable to allow through a landing zone configuration and update go take a peek at the landing zone page. So here I just want to scroll down here for you. So I can diagrams here to give you an idea what you are solution includes four counts, add on products can get this you're going to get four accounts they're going to have a shared service account you are setting up your organization's you should security accounts that are isolate from your other purposes, okay, and so at best is giving you the right. And so when you need additional accounts, and so that account vending machine will just really all you need to know about a landing zone and then it's going to allow you to add additional of other good best practices baked into the Okay. looking at Ava's resource groups and tagging. So strongly related. So we need to learn them both at act as metadata for organizing your AWS resources. of resources that share one or more tags. Okay, is there's a drop down right beside services where Okay. So the whole purpose of resource groups is on your, your project, and the resources that you a group of resources based on metrics, alarms, can modify the settings of your resource groups to you had a database server, and maybe an s3 bucket give them all the same tag, and then you could concept there. Okay. So in this follow along here, and tagging. So we're going to spin up a couple of to a resource group see that they are in a group, so what I want you to do is make your way to EC type in EC two. Okay. And we'll just make our way we'll have to go ahead and launch some instances. that we're in here, I will just choose Amazon tier because that is the free tier. And then we're going to go on to storage and pass onto storage I'm going to call it project and I say tarok reference. If you're wondering, okay, and we don't review and launch we're gonna hit launch here and We're not doing anything with these servers, just we're gonna go down to view instances in the right just going to click on one of these, even though checkbox. And we're going to go to tags here just do is ROP resource groups down here and I'm just a new tab to make my life a little bit easier and so here, we are creating a new group. And we based and cloud formation stack based, so we're and so then we have our grouping criteria, this And so we can choose a resource type, but we'll okay, so that allows it to be anything easy to tags. So going back over here, I just want to make and paste that there. So we got project, and hit Add. And so now we have our criteria set up. we don't see any as of yet, okay, I'm just going you hit that there. And now, those instances have attached there also have the tag applied appears that's why and so I'm just going to type in tarok. tag the actual group here. That's not necessary, have grouped resources, okay, so whenever we want we can see terok nor, and we can see all the find other resources with those tags. All right. a resource group, let's actually go look at manage to find resources. All right, based on tag, so the region that we're in, so we're in Ohio right I'll say all resource types, and I'm gonna just and I can use tarok, nor Okay, I'm going to add, that has done for me is it's actually found them those resources I could do so. And I think I selected resources, I can now remove the tag from okay, so I can go here and then say, Federation, if I hit review and apply tags, it's going to go we go back to EC two instance here, we might have an additional tag applied. If we wanted to remove right? So we're gonna go to project we're going to here, search for those resources. And I can select So um, yeah, it's pretty darn straightforward. I So if I go back here and do a refresh, now we just that's as simple as it is. And there's tagging AWS. Okay. And I'm just going to go and shut down So we want to terminate them. And we want to say So there you go. Hey, this is Angie brown from which are pre built templates by Ava solution popular stacks on AWS. And so the benefit here is into just a few steps. Okay, so quickstart is a reference architecture for the deployment. So description. And then the actual quickstart and cloudformation templates are used for it's going to automate configured that deployment explaining the architecture and implementation in deploy deployments enable you to spin up a fully Okay, so you can get operational pretty quick with you can see that I've cherry picked one out there camera connector. Okay. So here I just wanted to so you have an idea of what there is available to bunch of filtration options to choose Or to narrow right hand side, we already have some templates, we have a one here by Cambridge technology, which environment for you. So that sounds pretty quickstart here, what we're going to see I was talking about how we're like a bunch of varies based on quickstart templates that don't they'll generally give you instructions on how to And so if we wanted to launch this, we go view oh, we got a big white paper. So this one's a little more clear. Oh, yeah, here it is. So again, done this one before. But we'll say deploy into a up that cloudformation template for you. That's it's going into cloudformation. Okay. And we're just showing you, at least to this stage, okay. And I'm just going to see if it asks us to provide template has a bunch of variables that you fill it's just going to have different options here. but we would just fill that in, go next review and for it. So there you go, that is a quickstart. looking at AWS cost and usage report. And this spreadsheet enabling you to better analyze and have a big button and you download a spreadsheet the report gets placed into an s3 bucket, you can database hour, or you can use quick sight to so you have a lot of options here to work with the spreadsheet. Okay. So that is Ava's cost usage you how to use Amos costing usage report to get do is you're gonna go up the top right corner and you're going to make your way to the cost okay, and then once you get here, we're gonna to create our reports, let's go ahead and do we're gonna say my, my use cost and usage, okay. I'm gonna just hit next. And then we need to a new bucket. So I'm just gonna say, ESP for to put that in the US East. One region there. big policy wants will say, save that, okay. And I'll leave it for hourly, that's totally fine. I we'll create a new version of support. And now for Athena redshift and quick site, but we are just because I want to make my life really easy here. won't be able to unzip that with very little can do here is go hit review and complete. Okay, next 24 hours, your first report will be delivered report creation. So we're just going to have here and download it and show you that report. went over to my s3 buckets here, and I searched drilled down so if you just click through to that this folder that has no name, okay? And then you here, then you're going to see another folder, you zip. Okay. So that's going to have a zip, which that raw data, which I've opened up here in Excel. so it's up to you To make sense of this data, but cost and usage. And of course, I mean, the huge quick site and Athena to analyze it within AWS. Hey, this is Angie brown from exam Pro, and we're first sign up for AWS, you are creating a single as is the root user. Okay, so just look over account. So just, let's pretend that this was the that root account user. So what you can do is you so what that's going to allow you to do is it's within that organization. So now, that original it, you can create multiple accounts. Okay, you're an organization, you might want to, like, and also to have fine tuned control over what they like, let's say you have a development team on one them within an organizational unit, and then use services they can or cannot use on math. Okay. But I think this would be a lot more clear when we brown from exam Pro. And in this follow along, create some member accounts. Okay. So there are It's within the IM console here. So you just type that it says organization is not in use, because we'll have to do is in a new tab, we'll have to go I'm at currently. And we have this nice little ahead here and hit Create organization, it's we have all these features, or we could just have create this one here. So I'm gonna hit Create organization. And you can see that it sent me an because the original account we have here has going to go ahead and just go confirm that email that verification email. So I'm just going to go verified. Okay, so I'm just going to close that we are now verified, okay, and we can see, that's star emphasizes that that is a master account. So let's see if there's any kind of change. Okay, and root organization here. And then we have the exam we can't create additional accounts. From here, what we can do is go back to the organization's So before I actually go ahead and create any some organizations are sorry to organize this so over here, this is where we'd see all of our units. So I'm going to create a new organizational that organizational unit, and there is some by default, it has already set it here. So we is associated to the root there. Okay, so now create an account under this organizational unit. a new account. I'm going to create a new account developer at exam pro.co. Here, okay, I just gotta because every account has to have a unique, unique Im role, I'm just gonna leave that blank and hit It's going to get us set up with a new account. an email to tell us that our account is ready. Alright, so after waiting a few minutes here, I And just back in here, if you do a hard refresh you probably don't want to name the account had put my name in there. Generally, you'd want is called here. But this account is now ready. the way you do it is you actually just log in as here. And I need to remember what this email is And we're just going to log out here and just sign do here is we'll just go ahead and go sign in email there. And we're just going to hit next. going to hit forgot password is the only way to password. And so we have to enter into this code but I think that's what it is. Okay, we'll try And so now we're gonna get an email here. And so And so here is that email to reset her password. link here. Okay. And so now we're just going to to fill something in there. Okay, and so now our have to proceed to sign in here. So we'll just our new account. Great. And so now we are in with new accounts set up. And so I guess the next thing with the organization. So we're gonna have to our master account. Okay. So that's what I'm just And we will just supply that a password. Okay, and to organizations. And we see we have our account our account to an organizational unit. And so I'm how. So I'm just going to check boxes here. And this account is currently in the route to move so I guess that's what we need to do here. choose that to be in the developers route. And organizational unit. Okay. So if we click in you'd want to move things into organizational service control policies. And that's what they So if we only wanted that account to only be So we'd say only EC two, here as the policy name. want to allow. So we'll say EC two, and then we and then we can move on to resources, I suppose, resources here, and then we'll hit add, and then need to change any of this here. I'm pretty sure so we're just going to allow access to all the be implicitly denied. So the only thing we'll have is valid. And we'll just go hit Create policy. which gives us only easy to access, we now you everything from the root. So you'd have to enable use them. Okay. And so now that is enabled, and be able to set that policy. So I'll go here, and sure if I can detach it, but let's give it a go. to EC two, and, but the root will still have that we have an idea how we can apply permissions account and just go ahead and just shut it down or This other account for anything, we don't want so what we'll do is we will just log out here, account. Okay, so I'm just proceeding to log into the password in here. Okay, great. So we're back were only allowed to launch EC two. So actually, else just to see if our service control policies to perform lambda. So our policy is working as but every time you create an account, they all we are logged in as the root account into this rid of this account, you can actually suspend this believe to suspend accounts, we have to go to up so but there's only one problem here is the close our own account, because we don't have the our master account and give us better permissions this account. So I'm just going to log out here, And we will make our way back to organizations just remove the account here, but the problem with And in order to leave the organization, and account wouldn't be would actually wouldn't accounts in AWS, you can just suspend them, which within those accounts anymore. And that's what back to our organization accounts here, right service policies, and I'm going to attach the we're going to log out and go back into that back into that member account. And we'll just do no, it's fresh, okay, fresh plus developers at go. We'll enter that password in. Okay, great. And here. So I'm going to go up and go to my account. here, which I have blocked out. But within here, So we'll just do that. So what I did here is I can see that we can close your account. And we the advantage here of closing our account, which we're not being billed for anything else within here and say I understand for the three things this account has now been closed, and I can just and just log out and we'll go back into our master and log back into our master account and go just will just make our way back to organizations So this account is no longer active. Okay. And so eight us organizations. And yeah, there is some, IM console, there's not a lot there to do, you can policies. But just be aware that each of us is this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we are here. So I have this nice big architectural it. Okay. So the first thing you'll want you're going to have to choose a region to location of your network. So that could be US East choose Canada Central, which is based in Montreal. resources in, you're going to need a VPC. And a logical isolated section of the cloud, where you of the ADA based network. Just for you. Okay, and to subdivide it up into subnets. And so subnets smaller network segments. Okay, so you could have a public and a private subnet a public one is private subnet is where it is not. Okay. So when are you going to put those in a private subnet? availability zone. And an availability zone going to launch your AWS resources. And those regions. Okay. So now we have a region we have a and start launching resources into our subnets or an RDS instance. But how are how is that EC two to do so we're going to need a gateway to the into play. So it enables access to the internet, from your VPC, outward, okay. But just having subnet has to know how to reach that internet route tables come in. So route tables determine are directed. So you'd create a a route in your go out to the internet. Alright, now that we have into our subnets, what about security, and that's come in. So security groups is acts as a firewall we have an EC two instance in RDS, and they span say that the security group is protecting those you have knackles and knackles is another form of in front of subnets. And controls access in and important components of AWS networking, there's know for now. Okay. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from And so you can see we have a variety of different exam, you probably just need to know Dynamo dB, the exam, they might throw in these other ones to through process of elimination, you can determine going to be good for us to learn them all. And which is a no SQL key value database. And like or Cassandra based, because I think similar to it. And so this is a very flattened records. And we'll give you a guarantee of reads say 200 reads per second, you just enter that moving on to document dB, which is a no SQL So if you need MongoDB, you're going to be using the relational database service, okay. And it's the most commonly used and it supports multiple db, Oracle, or Microsoft SQL Server, alright. And And so Aurora is really its own thing. And it And within it, you can choose to either run MySQL has a greater performance over the regular MySQL it has a better performance of up to five times, Aurora, again, is highly available and durable. cluster is going to be running six copies of your so with that, it definitely is more expensive or you need that guarantee of availability and use a worra. Now moving on to Aurora serverless. less features, but the huge advantage here is kind of like a relational database where it's on only paying for when you're using it just like for development workloads or web apps that are not architecture, okay, so it makes it really easy moving on to Neptune. It is a managed graph We're onto a redshift. So redshift is a columnar rows, it reads via columns. And so it's really, where you need to generate maybe, like reports and it can handle petabytes worth of data. Okay, So that is x significant amount of data. Moving on can either choose to use the open source caching you need caching, that's going to be your choices services. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam provisioning is just an easy way to set up a bunch automated way. And this could be done via code, or Okay. And so AWS has a variety of different So let's just learn the difference between all Elastic Beanstalk is really good at deploying web the underlying infrastructure at all. So what your code, you're going to upload it to Elastic with the language of choice. And it will more or if you're using Ruby on Rails, you just choose the And you know, if you wanted to use Django, then I like to think of Elastic Beanstalk as the just a service where you not part of AWS, but you moving on to opsworks. opsworks is a configuration management help you with the configuration of those are just two different tools, developer programmatically set up a server. So for, for it's written in. And so you would define these go out and set up things on your actual easy to or pull the code or do a bunch of other stuff, officeworks also has a concept called layers. three tier or two tier layers. And so you could and networking layer. And it just makes things cloud formation is infrastructure as code. a JSON or yamo file, and what you're going AWS resources that you want to provision and you're going to upload that template and then go. Okay, so cloudformation is an extremely opsworks opsworks, has some limitations as to what but cloudformation can do anything pretty much but it is also the most flexible option in our quickstarts. These are just pre made packages, And they are created by AWS or with AWS third and so, they are going to have these pre packaged we do cover quick sidebar. quickstart in more let's say you wanted to get started with ml, a bunch of premade configured cloudformation so you'd have to take a look to see what there is 80 of us marketplace, this is a digital catalog software vendors, where you can find by test you're gonna be using the marketplace to buy to set up a WordPress, you could go into the Ava's so one that is very popular is by bitnami. And configured for you. And maybe it has additional subscription to use that. Okay, so those are all Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at which stands for elastic Compute Cloud. And you that's just to emphasize how important EC two is. the hood is using EC two. So no matter what you're they're all running on EC two instances, they're because eight of us is managing those EC two it's a highly configurable server, where you get system. Okay, so now moving on to the other elastic container service. And this is basically services, or a, a dockerized, application, you're what you would do is you would just choose the easy to instance will come pre configured with nice interface, so that you would just define or a service, and then you would just run them on And this is also for micro services. And this is you choose what easy to instance, you, you need you just would define your, your containers within to run and AWS would just have it run, okay. And for the EC two instance, you're just paying so it's kind of like lambdas, where you're resources used. Okay, moving on to Eks, which is heard of Kubernetes, it's becoming the de facto And so since it's so important, AWS has decided and it's called Eks. Okay, so it gives you all the source Kubernetes. Okay. And again, this is just lets you run serverless functions. So the idea form of function, and it just runs, you don't have provision everything is taken care of for you. based on how long it runs. Okay, so that's all Beanstalk. And so Matt blastic, beanstalk is going for you. So the idea is it will set up up to s3, need to run your web application. And the idea developer environments, that's what it's intended idea is like, let's say you're a developer, and Rails, or Django, or love rail, and you just want think about all the services you have to set up. it would do the rest for you. So that's all there using EC two again, so it's just going to set up to worry about it. Moving on to AWS batch. So Avis so you can plan schedule and execute your batch compute services and features. And so what it's for you using spot pricing so that you can save computing services, you need to know. Hey, this a variety of different storage services that are So the first one on our list here is s3, which object store, I like to think of it as a hard about the actual hard drive, I can just upload of space, because there's unlimited space. So it Glacier. And so it's like s3, but it's extremely have to be okay with waiting for several minutes do access those files, there is a retrieval enterprises who have lots of sensitive data. But but they're very unlikely to actually ever look at in. Then you have storage gateway. And so I like your on premise storage into the cloud. You could for your local storage, you would just back storage gateway is a hybrid solution for on prem which stands for elastic block store. And this is you can attach to EC two instances, and you get be. Okay, so if you want it to be a solid state better throughput, or you could use an H HD, which And then you have Fs, which stands for elastic So it's like having a file system that you're the same time. Whereas with elastic block store, that is a huge advantage there. Okay. All right. is a way of moving a lot of data around very or vice versa. So let's say you have terabytes would be extremely slow and painful. So what it it to you, it's basically a computer in the form what you're going to do is you're going to quickly going to be delivered to AWS directly into s3, happens just to be like a snowball with additional also process data as it's being inserted into the is snowmobile, which is super cool. And it So it's actually just a giant cargo container or so it's basically like a data center on wheels. and you're going to basically just hook up to onto there, and then it's going to be driven back that is the storage services on AWS. Hey, this is business centric services. So starting at the which is a cloud based call center service, you the same proven system used by amazon customer Amazon Connect is you can accept inbound, inbound and then store them into s3. So maybe you could comprehend or something like that. And you can you want to route a call based on a set of rules, list here is workspaces, which just boils down to services for provisioning either Windows or Linux scales up to 1000s of desktops. So you just would spin up a Windows 10 server that you can now log then we have worked docs, which is a content edit and share content, save centrally AWS. So you have chimes. So this is a service platform business call business calling which elastically is like, it's like having slack and also Skype. managed business, emails, Contacts and Calendar mobile email client applications. So this is just So this is for marketing campaign management SMS push notifications, and voice messages. So send out our campaign emails. So here, you can and do like a B testing on your your emails. Okay, simple email service. And this is a cloud based and application developers who send marketing pinpoint, which is for marketing campaign but FCS is more for like when you are building emails from that application. So let's say you and you want to send them a confirmation email, HTML emails. So there's another service called only send plain text. So that's why ICS is more component. And last on our list is quick sight. so the idea here is you can connect multiple data graphs, little to no programming knowledge, you're probably Aurora and RDS. And you just click have these beautiful graphs, okay. And I believe site. So there's a lot of cool things you can do in the form of dashboards to other people. Okay. services. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, is all about going hybrid, bringing your on prem first service we're gonna look at here is direct connection from your on premise to AWS. So imagine to AWS. So it's a really good way of having low thing is VPN. So the idea here is that you can we have two ways of doing this. We have site to you are connecting on prem to your network, and that works for you. Maybe they are maybe they work to connect them to your network. Okay, then you service that enables your on prem applications as extending your hard your on prem hard drives up and archiving, disaster recovery, cloud data and then down below, we have Active Directory. Active Directory, also known as Eva's managed where workloads and Amos resources to use manage that last one was pretty boring. But if you are to integrate that on AWS. Hey, this is Daniel logging services. Here we have cloud trail it logs all API calls, generally via the SDK or good service to determine who we should blame for this bucket, who spun up that expensive easy to that's where cloud trail is going to come here is that we can use it to detect developer but we could also use it to detect malicious cloud trail is going to maybe give us an idea responses. So maybe every time someone created so that is something that we could do maybe with on to cloud watch. So Cloud watch is a collection say cloudwatch, we're talking about cloud watch really based off of logs. Okay? So Cloud watch logs. And so logs could be performance data about memory, or network in, you could also store your on Rails, you could send the logs there or nginx. lambda lambda, you would, you can put within your would then pass that on to cloud watch. And that Okay, and so moving on to the other cloud watch time ordered set of data points. And so you want monitor. And if that's still confusing, just think and turning it into a graph, okay, then you have a an event based on a condition so when, when you a metric, or other other kinds of rules. But like, events for is, let's say, every hour, you want like the volume that is attached to your then you have cloud watch alarms, and these so you would specify a threshold and when that and then it would send you an email or a then you have cloud watch dashboards. And this So when I said earlier that metrics, you can think And so you could take those graphs, and then put a lot of data at a glance. So there you go, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, and we're lot of ad bus services and some other things that And the reason why it's good to know these is the full name of the service, it might give away version. Okay, so if you had a question about and you knew that he sued for email, that's a dead just going to help you comprehend things a lot you just think as G because in your mind, you're have a lot of initialisms here, and four services. is actually a type of person that gets assigned generic tech technology term, which stands for of things on here. And these are the most common you know, you should study up on these and just this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we're And this is going to deal with security of an in they are responsible for security in the cloud. put on AWS, you are responsible for it. So if you do not turn on monitoring services to monitor as well. Or there's a variety of different Ada configure them. So if there is a misconfiguration, are your responsibilities. Then we have AWS and so cloud. So the hardware, the operations of managed so all the things that you can't touch is what AWS pared down version of the shared responsibility Okay, and so you can just see that there's a we got customer data platforms application client side dating encryption, server side and on AWS we have software and hardware rights storage, your database, your networking, if your you have the regions and the edge locations. Okay, just need to remember, again, for the customer, infrastructure and hardware. Okay. Hey, this is ETS compliance program. So what is a compliance procedures of a company to comply with laws, rules okay. And so we have a bunch of these cool looking conform to one of these compliance programs, it easier for you to adopt cloud computing. To for HIPAA that is the Health Insurance Portability is a legislative legislation that provides data medical information. So if your hospital you're then you have PCI DSS and so this is the Payment want to sell things online, and you need to handle be PCI compliant, okay? And there's a variety of but just to give you a taste of what that is, AWS website, because I just wanted to show you the and if you had to find out if they had some kind So here I am, you can see we have a bunch of you prior there. And you can see that there are scroll down here, you can see there's a lot for which is where I am, Asia, Pacific Europe. Okay, Now, if you wanted to find a little bit more about into them, they'll tell you what it's for. And a a considerable amount of information here. So when programs, definitely check this out. Now actually those compliances is another story. And so at this artifact, okay? Hey, this is Andrew Brown artifact. And the purpose of this service is to meeting a compliance program, because just because necessarily mean that they are compliant, you explain how you are meeting those, all those rules get access to that, you actually have to go into made a service in order to generate out the report is you would go into at this artifact, you would to get, it's going to generate out a PDF, and which will then get you the actual files that Eva's artifact is, and I'm going to show you how Alright, so in this follow along here, I'm going can get access to a compliance report. So what I and we will type in artifact, like remember how to And so now in artifact, we're going to get a huge AWS has. And so what we'll do is we'll just look the Canada GC partner package. And what you'll do be presented with a bunch of information. And what once you've read it, check that box there and say is going to do is it's going to download this PDF within this PDF, you're going to have to make because it will not work with any other reader. open it up in preview, it's not going to allow you Adobe Acrobat, and we're going to give this a go. Adobe Acrobat Reader. And it even tells you right Reader. Other PDF readers are not supported. Okay. is follow the instructions. So this is click the so which is up here, okay, and then what it's you'd like to open. So there could be a variety or csds, or excels. But we'll just go ahead and actually have access to even more content. So now a summary of what's going on. And then, within trying to get to. So we're gonna go ahead and open And so, you know, this is what we're looking so the, these documents are gonna vary based all different. But this is that one. And this is that AWS is meeting this compliance program. So Pro. And we are looking at Amazon inspector. we prove an EC two instance is harden? And so know what a hardening is. And so hardening is as possible. Okay. And so that is what Eva's runs a security benchmark against specific EC two you can run a variety of security benchmarks. assessment. So for network, it's checking to see reachable to the internet. And then the host is applications there, based on the benchmark or So the way inspector works is that it's going which just does this, I believe through a run for your assessment target. And then it's going remediate those security issues. Okay. And so which stands for center of internet security. And going to be using through our follow along. So exam Pro. And we are looking at AWS whap, and it's going to protect us, or specifically our so the idea here is you're going to write your traffic based on the contents of an HTTP request. and you wanted to just use one from a trusted cheaply in the at best laugh rules marketplace. bunch of rules included. And generally, those rule which are the most dangerous attacks for web or cross site scripting, or a host of other ones, protect you against everything. Now, in order to of CloudFront, or an application load balancer. for a nervous laugh. Hey, this is Andrew Brown which is a managed DDoS protection service that understand what the offering for the services, we for distributed denial of service and this is by flooding a website with a large amount of fake it's actually already turned on for you, and additional charge at least the shield standard you just have to make sure that you are routing front. Okay? Now I said that there is a paid tier standard, this is going to protect you against the on automatically for you. And it's available for you have shield advanced, which cost $3,000 per are these you have to make the commitment to pay additional types of attacks, larger attacks, going to give you visibility into those attacks, I 24 seven access to some DDoS experts. For those have paid for such a services shield advanced, And it's only available for a limited amount of lb their global accelerator and putting things in there is there. And I probably will just go to the can take a quick look through it. Alright, so I've a comparison between shield standard and shield is turned on for all AWS services, where shield of standard but have additional functionality for scroll down here, you see we have a nice large that shield advance is for mitigating large, DDoS you, and sending a lot of traffic your way, you're Another thing about shield advanced is that we get lot more information as to the nature of these support. So we're going to be able to talk to we're also going to get DDoS cost protection, getting a lot of traffic's going to be hitting And if you have a lot of traffic that would gives you these guarantees that you're not going that's the stuff I wanted to highlight there for Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at the testing for short. So what is pen testing? It's system performed to evaluate the security of the pen tests on AWS? And the answer is yes, there some prohibited activities. But you can definitely services you are permitted to do pen testing on. and lbs, you have RDS, you have CloudFront, you lambda and lambda edge, you have lightsail of other services underneath such as EC two, and the eight permitted services. And then you have perform DDoS attacks, you can't do port flooding, request flooding, anything of the flooding nature, there's that now if there's something else that cyber attack or test, you can submit a request to whether you are allowed to do so or not a year or they have definitely opened this up. So you can do you can do pen testing on AWS. Hey, this is at Amazon guard duty and so the question I want attempting to gain access to our AWS account or going to come into play. So guard duty is a threat malicious suspicious activity and unauthorized the following 80 plus logs so you have cloud trail and it will alert you of findings which you can events or with a third party services. And if you've ever heard of an IDS or an IPS, those intrusion protection system. And that is a device or systems for malicious activity or policy It's an IDS IPS for AWS. Okay. Alright, so I just in guard duty. So I have guardi turned on, and which are just in public v PCs with with very away that people are already trying to SSH do have instances that are public facing with SSH, you're very likely to see a brute force attacks. finding is, and a bunch of additional information That's just a guard up there. Okay, this is Andrew management service, also known as kms. And it is create and control encryption keys used to encrypt know about kms. And that is it's a multi tenant and this is a piece of hardware that's at the AWS this piece of hardware is specifically designed written to disk. And that piece of hardware is that there's other customers that are utilizing virtually isolated from each other via software. is that many Eva services integrate with kms in this screenshot here, we have RDS where we're so a lot of services have that checkbox, and uses envelope encryption. Okay, and so envelope idea here is you might have a you have a key that your data key from from being encrypted. Okay, so the key that we use to encrypt our data with Because it's like putting your key within an And yeah, that is kms. Hey, this is Angie brown which is a fully managed service that continuously and generates detailed alerts when it detects leaks. So that was a very long sentence. So if you to reiterate, Amazon may see it, the idea is here data can be it could be sensitive data, such identifiable information, or it could be health using the power of machine learning, and also detect that sense of data and whether that data so if you put a file full of credit cards in plain is gonna say, Hey, we found some credit cards, and encrypt this and and archive it and make sure role of Amazon Macy. Now, Macy has a variety the kind of things that can detect so ransomware you pay for it privilege escalation for someone supposed to, at the entity enumeration somebody stuff that you have to figure out what they can credit credentials loss. So if you have stored a bunch of alerts that it can alert you on. The your most at risk users, which could lead to your team, and you know, they're just having very often, they're going to rank it based on this. think bronze would be the worst user, but Platinum is the worse this user is. You got to give them Amazon may see is, Hey, this is Angie brown from versus a knackles. Okay, and so these are both utility of these are slightly different. Okay, so to cover, especially when we are in the security act as a firewall at the instance level, whereas So in that diagram, you can see that all those and they can span multiple subnets. Whereas the gonna control access in and out from subnets. traffic, and so you have to create allow rules both for inbound and outbound. Okay. So the so you could SSH into an instance, that's an allow with knackles, you can allow an end deny rules, is that you can block a specific IP address deny rules. And you can say exactly, I want to can't do this with security groups is that because to deny a single IP and allow everything else, you'd have to create allow rules for everything one IP address, which is like almost impossible. block a specific IP address known for abuse. Okay, groups, versus knackles. And that's all we need Pro. And we are looking at a universal VPN, which service does is it lets you establish a secure to the AWS global network. And so it comes in two VPN. So what is the difference here, so for site premises networks, or a branch office to your where you securely connect users to AWS, or on you are for site to site, you're connecting an is just like, imagine you have some employees, and from home, and you want them to connect them to to be using. So just know that you can do that. that there are these two variations here. Hey, doing a bit of variation study. And we're going because I want you to know that even though they services. And I just don't want you to get mixed about all the services that start with cloud is infrastructure as code. And it sets up services it is used for provisioning lots of resources on logging all API calls between Ada services. So then on to CloudFront. CloudFront, is a content website and copies that content to servers located it's going to be using edge locations to do a collection of multiple services, okay. And so or log data, so memory usage, rails logs, or nginx are metrics that are based off of the logs. I like they're represented. So it's like your log data. time, that's cloud watch metrics, okay? Then you triggers an event based on a condition. So it takes a snapshot of the server, and these okay? Then you have cloud watch alarms, and Then you have cloud watch dashboard, and this last one here on our list is cloud search. It commerce website and you wanted to add a search Unlike just or just like amazon.com, that's Brown from exam Pro. And now I just want to cover and so there are three services with Connect, little bit about these three so we can distinguish connect. And it is a dedicated fiber optics is ideal for large enterprises that own their own connection directly to AWS. If you need to secure it was VPN on top of direct connect. Okay, a call center in the cloud. So you get a toll free and you can automate, automate like a phone system and it is the new version of elastic transcoder. you have 1000 videos, and you need to transcode you had to apply like a watermark or insert in an okay. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, elastic transcoder and media convert the both bit confusing, but I'll just tell you a bit of the it was the first service that came out that could have a video one format, and you want to turn it with another service called Eva's elemental media videos. I don't know if they rebuilt it from it has additional features that elastic transcoder insert video clips, you can do extracts for one point, I believe that people were still using integration with the AWS API, but I'm pretty sure using elastic transcoder Avi bus is always but elastic transcoder is still around, because used to it. And these things are priced pretty save money by using elastic transcoder. But there from exam Pro. And I want to just do a quick match services to get mixed up because they both have used for application integration. So they connect which stands for simple notification service it messaging model. And so with it, it passes along a messaging service, but it's all about queuing service, it's just passing them along, whereas Sq going back to SNS, SNS sends notifications to So it can use HTTP email, it can also send it to send to lambda, as well there which don't have place messages in the queue and the and you have right back on the SNS. So SNS is generally used emphasize that because it cannot do HTML emails, the best example is building alarm. So if you've it's going to send you a plain text email. Okay, have the ability to retry sending in the case for okay. So that there is some kind of retry SQL can retain a message for up to 14 days. They they can ensure only one message is sent, they can and so there's the comparison there and just the hooks. Simple internal emails are triggering good for delay tasks, and queuing up emails. similar services for SNS, if you've ever heard of And for Sq s, if you've ever heard of rabid mq Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, I want trusted advisor, because both of these services And so they're easy to mix up. Okay? So Amazon So you can audit a single instance or all the would run a script, which would then run against report to you what checks have passed or failed. which will do 699 checks, okay. And the other doesn't generate PDF report, there probably is like something that is promoted with trusted recommendations across multiple service services on just security, okay, so it would tell you MFA on your root account. So inspector is really secure or hardened. And trusted advisor is all okay. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, types of load balancers. So you have an idea network load bouncer existed, all there was was to classic load balancer. And it basically does but it has a way fewer features, and it works balancer does not use target groups. And it's the EC two classic network in mind, okay, so load balancer you, you still can, but you're balancer because they are specialized for their load balancer, it's working at layer seven, dealing with HTTP and HTTPS traffic. Okay. And so you're going to want to use. It has some advanced usability out of your load balancer. So prior to you'd have to launch a load bouncer for each one. subdomains to the single load balancer and make want to target. Okay. And so with application load stands for web application firewall. And so since firewalls just for applications, it makes sense on to the network load balancer. This operates at dealing with IP protocol data. So this is where extreme performance is required. So think video millions of requests per second will maintain for sudden and volatile traffic patterns. So then all these load balancers, you can attach the certificate so you have HTTPS traffic. Okay, so Pro. I'm just gonna do a quick matchup of SNS vs because they both send emails Okay, so let's learn notification service. It is really intended for it comes to sending emails. All right. So with of topics via multiple protocols, so we're not sq s SMS and we can also do lambdas. Alright, simple email service. And this is really utilize right. And so it basically is a cloud based email what FCS is All right. So going back to SNS, SNS which is triggered via other Ada services. The so if you ever had a billing alarm, and it's text email. It's an ugly email, but it does the and can also send play up plaintext emails, HTML email. So if you want something that's going can also receive inbound emails, SMS can create or domain name for your email, and you can monitor stuff that is going on there with SEO. As you can there you go. So that is the comparison there. I just want to do a quick comparison between is that they both compile up PDF reports. So So I just want to clarify the difference between should enterprise trust at West. So does such as sock or PCI? And inspector is all is secure? Can you prove it? And so it runs a then generates out a PDF report telling you which difference between these two services, but just be Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And I congratulate you And so now all that's left to do is to do some all right, that means you're ready to go book section shortly. Okay, so there you go. All right. a bit of a trick to actually find where this page and go here, alright, and then maybe go to the it's going to take you to at bis dot training, take the exam. So in the top right corner, we are already have an account. So I'm just going to go hit sign in there. Okay, and we're just going just going to go ahead and fill mine in. And I the rest of it here. Alright, so now we are in the we have a one stop training. And to get to booking then we're going to have to go to our account. third party service that actually manages the certain metrics account here. And now we can go schedule a new exam. And down below, we're going just be psi. And so now they all have psi Pearson where you can actually go take and sit the exam, now it's the only certification you can take from they have to be done at a data center. And so I'm psi or a Pearson VUE here. And again, they have data center in your area, I'll just go give go book that exam. So let's go take a look at here. So I'm just going to open this in a tab and we can book it here through these two portals. So familiar with. Okay, because Pearson VUE wasn't can see the duration and the confirmation number, right exam. Sometimes there are similar exams like 100%. Sure, before you go ahead and do that and go you that there is more than one available here and then from here, we're going to wait here and we're get to choose our data centers. So the idea is you I typed in Toronto here, so we'll get sitting over here. And I'm just going to hit Toronto here. and then we are going to have a bunch of over So I'm gonna click one. Alright, and it's going there's not a lot of times this week, generally ahead. Every time I booked exam, it's never been going to vary based on the test center that you one only lets you do Wednesdays and Thursdays. So we would choose that and we would continue. Okay, and so the booking has been created. And in order in USD dollars, okay. So you'd have to just go and pay it, then you are ready to go sit that exam. So take a look over at Pearson VUE. So I'm just gonna about booking an exam right now. Okay, and we'll here we are in the Pearson VUE section to book and I'll choose English because that's what I'm most here. And the next thing it's going to show us is right. And now we can proceed to scheduling. Okay, me a lot of supervillains often Alright, okay, in Toronto. Okay, so here are test centres. And you can see there are some different offerings, choose this one here. Okay, and it lets you select we will select three, and we will hit next. Okay, Okay. Hello, let's go. And now we are just going So we do have the three options to compare. And so then we would see that information, and we could from exam Pro, and we are at the end here. So I do I definitely want to hear your feedback. I do the the course curriculum here of any regards success on social media, whether it's LinkedIn,