It is late April 1863. The American Civil has emerged in the eastern theatre. of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia Richmond at Fredericksburg. Hooker, popularly known by the soubriquet the Army of the Potomac has stolen a march are bearing down on Lee's left flank, preparing Outnumbered, and with the enemy closing in flight appear the only options. of ever more audacious maneuvers that would of the American Civil War, and one that will Although Union forces made great gains in along the vital Mississippi River, occupying coming within a few days' march of the rebel on them. Instead, the Confederacy demonstrated in the autumn, one into Maryland, and the were eventually pushed back. However, they advantage of Northern supineness to press In September 1862, emboldened by the Confederate a draft of an Emancipation Proclamation, to will liberate all slaves in the states still North's chief policy objective. Lincoln on the defensive philosophically for the remainder But Lincoln also knew that bold speech needed after the midterm elections, which saw Democrats by the Army of the Potomac's inactivity, McClellan with Ambrose Burnside. before year's end to take advantage of Northern of Lee would yield important political dividends. moved south. He reached the Rappahannock River difficulties, namely acquiring enough pontoon resulted in a delay of several weeks. This into a strong defensive position along Marye's By December 11, Burnside had his boats and under fire; followed the next day by a series The results were catastrophic. Civil War, the North left over 12.000 killed Despite the disaster at Fredericksburg, Burnside The following month, he sought to move north advantage of the frozen ground to move more levels to cross the Rappahannock at United pontoon boats. Burnside's maneuver would by the largest cavalry raid ever envisioned as well as Richmond before rejoining Union Unusually warm weather on January 20, the off to a promising start. But the weather snow. The roads turned into sloughs, the riverbanks maneuver, sent detachments to oppose the crossing. in his mind, and with the river now rising pull back. Two days later, he tendered his Joe Hooker. in the Army's past three campaigns, Hooker's not endear him to his fellow officers. In led the general to suspect the same spirit as Reynolds, Meade, and Sedgwick. The atmosphere personal dependence which, when combined with would have paralyzing consequences on the My plans are perfect, and when I start to Lee, for I shall have none. - Joseph Hooker Hooker spent the rest of the winter bringing slogging through mud. He abolished the grand With morale restored by the middle of February, Willing to take every possible advantage of Corps under General Baldy Smith to make threatening of last spring's offensive. Davis, and confident in being able to recall I Corps commander, James Longstreet, his aggressive Pickett, and 13.000 men to guard the capital. North Carolinian coast. have proven their worth, Lee was left with of 130.000. There will be little margin for Informed that Lee had reduced his force, Hooker moving aggressively along three separate fronts, could not stop all three at once and gambling any of them until it was too late. First, subordinate, downstream with his II Corps with three corps would push forward over the threaten Marye's Heights. Hooker himself corps and all of the army's cavalry on a replicated Burnside's doomed Mud March. his strong position or to give battle on three defeat. ready to move. On the 13th, General Stoneman the banks of the Rappahannock. Anticipating to tire his mounts, Stoneman adopted a slow night marked the beginning of an intense spring days. Within a few hours, the Rappahannock impractical for a fortnight. Hooker began his march, taking 70.000 men-- and XII Corps under Slocum--and reaching Union skirmishers quickly drove off the outnumbered all through the night and into the next day. from XI and XII Corps had passed the Rapidan, along the Orange Turnpike. V Corps now moved under Confederate generals Mahone and Posey States' Fords. their part to support Hooker's flanking probed a crossing of the Rappahannock below half of his I, III, and VI Corps across the Confronted with this direct show of force of the Union army, assessment of his opponent was correct; his You can never do more than your duty; you Late on the night of the 29th, however, Lee received insurmountable evidence that Hooker than that of his entire army. Eager to maintain general decided to match Hooker's boldness not contend with numbers; his only hope was a dense mass of secondary growth forest, transected and the Orange Plank Road. Maneuvering in cohesion could quickly be lost, along with Lee dispatched the remaining brigades of Richard and Posey and form a makeshift defensive line He ordered Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson Fredericksburg. Lastly, he sent a telegram Both sides spent the soggy April 30th maneuvering, Encouraged by his success, the ever-confident a two-story brick house at the intersection Hooker also ordered Sedgwick to send Couch's across the newly opened fords to reinforce with the rest of I and VI Corps. "I HAVE Hooker remarked encouragingly. occupied the Chancellor house and General Road. But Hooker countermanded this decision, moving again. Although he had received intelligence knew Lee could not possibly have the numbers and gather strength. how few men he can leave to bluff Sedgwick division had already been sent to reinforce had been primed to move before the next dawn. I Corps and Early's division from Jackson's Heights. Lee was aware that only a quick strike initiative, yet equally aware that he had strike. Greater risks still needed to be taken. both army commanders ordered their men forward. Corps north along the River Road to open up General Sykes was to push along the Turnpike by Slocum's XII Corps pushing south and composed of less reliable men, were to secure Church and await General Couch's II Corps On the Confederate side, the energetic Stonewall three of his four divisions were well on their the Orange Plank Road. By 11 AM he met up to abandon their defensive works and to push dilemma as well as Lee and hoped to give his consider all viable options, even a withdrawal A confrontation was not long in coming. Within skirmishers opened fire against Meade and Plank Road. Although Meade's men continued unimpeded confrontation in his center gave Hooker reason account of the battle later, it was at this At 1 pm, with elements of the Union army within order to fall back to their morning positions. they had no choice but to accept. in the woods. Although satisfied they had best to proceed. Shortly afterwards, Lee's two valuable pieces of information. First, to set up without properly protecting their Plank presence of a little used path that could to attack the vulnerable flank, using the Aware of their difficult position and intrigued to Lee the most audacious maneuver in the outnumbered force in half. Jackson, with 28.000 unsuspecting Union right in the course of a division in occupy the attention of Hooker's 70.000 daring, or recognizing a better option did May 2--Jackson's Flank Assault Rodes moved out, followed by the divisions deadened the sound of marching feet and, as that further obscured the Confederates' onto the Wilderness byways, with the weather Shortly after Jackson's foot cavalry made from the day before, inspected his lines. Reynolds' I Corps up from Fredericksburg Unfortunately, as a result of his countermand secured, resulting in a longer trek to cross see which side can get to the Wilderness Church At 9 am, as Hooker completed his inspection, against the Union left. Around the same time, near Hazel Grove, observed Confederate soldiers Sickles pushed his men forward while sending him a free hand to harass the enemy. As fighting Posey's brigade south to press Sickles on Hooker moved Slocum into the area and depleted This concentration of men created a significant road network would make it increasingly difficult flank, but Hooker remained unconcerned. He corps will make up the difference. At 2:30 of the 23rd Georgia, Jackson's rearguard. direction of the Confederate movement, Hooker The Union commander sent a fast rider to Fredericksburg, he is confident must be practically undefended, Hooker also sought confirmation for his belief send pickets forward into the undergrowth. superiors to the presence of Confederates this as "the offspring of fears." He had little more. rearguard, the first soldiers of Rodes's Union flank. Over the next two and a half north of the Orange Turnpike. Rodes and Colston AP Hill in reserve to exploit their gains. soldiers of XI Corps were preparing their "You may go forward, sir!" - Jackson As the sun was setting, Jackson told Rodes The assault was devastating. Men of the 41st their compatriots in the 54th New York and breaking and running. Some companies of the which briefly slowed the onslaught before swept down the Turnpike. Completely startled the national standard in the stump of his them to rally to the colors, but to no avail. men crashed into the flank of III Corps which growing darkness. In less than 90 minutes, mile. However, growing darkness, the difficult slowed down the Confederate advance, and by Well aware that the Confederate disadvantage be seen in the daylight and easily be exploited moved among his lines like a man possessed, He seems poised for a night attack along the and surround them in the Wilderness. staff rode out on reconnaissance, but soon As they returned to their lines around 9:30 them for Union cavalry and fired first a few of horsemen. seriously injured by a bullet that entered bone and rupturing an artery. As he was transported his corps command to AP Hill. Less than an hour after taking command, Hill that prevented him from walking or riding of the vital importance of having a bold and the vulnerable Southern position on the morrow. to Jeb Stuart, who, although a dashing cavalry infantry before. A tired Lee, awake for the past 24 hours, May 3rd. Aware of Jackson's desire to cut more concerned about the separated state of push his luck. He and Stuart agreed to consolidate through the Wilderness, and back to Ely's The fighting that morning took place over positions overlooking the collapsed Union seized first position by 6:30 am and, under a 30-gun battery to bombard the second eminence. nut to crack, with multiple lines of defense, the natural defensive position. Piecemeal some units suffering over 50% casualties. two Union lines and momentum was beginning once more. from the porch at Chancellor House when an been leaning against right above his head. His staff, gathering around him, feared he regained consciousness and, in a show of bravado, staff persuaded him to retire to a safer location. intense headache; a modern medical diagnosis called for his friend and confidant General condition, expected to be given temporary Hooker refused to relinquish command, using mouthpiece. This merely bogged down the reception and exacerbated the sluggishness of any Union As Lee sent the divisions of Anderson and an enfeebled Hooker ordered Couch to evacuate entire corps, I and V have barely been committed. the house and the woods around it caught fire; in the inferno tormented the survivors during Despite still being outnumbered and with II of the past 24 hours, Lee and Stuart sought were dispatched to seal the northern fords the single US Ford and his pontoon bridges; a broken Hooker might surrender en masse. received startling news from General Early: and was moving down the Turnpike towards his All throughout May 1st and 2nd, Early had on the evening of the second day had received ambitious flank assault. A misinterpretation desperately needed him. That evening he set a small brigade of Mississippians under General At 7 am on May 3rd Sedgwick, reinforced by once more by Hooker into action, attacked men stopped two separate assaults. Under the however, an observant Union officer saw how superiors to press the advance with all their began at 10 am. Within 25 minutes, the heights in full retreat south along Telegraph Road. wanting fresh troops to lead the advance along victorious Hooker to show up in the Confederate permitting Early to set up a defensive perimeter defeated troops to regroup. an active defense by General Cadmus Wilcox, crosses the Orange Plank Road, slowed the set up a more determined defensive position, Salem Church. An assault at 5:30 pm by Sedgwick of Confederate reinforcements. to keep Banks' Ford open in case a retreat under Lafayette McLaws to bolster Wilcox's south of the Union lines, while General Early and surround Sedgwick, or else pin him against May 4th--Salem Church three days, the last phase of the battle of General Early did his part in retaking Fredericksburg General McLaws proved strangely lethargic, By the time Lee had arrived on the field with time had been lost maneuvering and counter Confederate army could only muster a half-hearted in the growing evening fog and Sedgwick evacuated Rain fell that evening and into the morning were across the Rappahannock once more. of Chancellorsville and Salem Church was felt Jackson's amputation had been successful, referred to as his "right arm" died on well as practical, as Lee was forced to reorganize of the new corps commanders, Richard Ewell of Jackson, with the result that Lee was forced tactics. seize the strategic initiative after a few army into the Shenandoah Valley and headed this second invasion before he was relieved Theatre. would decisively shatter the stalemate in The following year, as subordinate to Ulysses Potomac back into the Wilderness. Rather than Meade and Grant would use their army as a of Northern Virginia, and ultimately bringing