cheerful music [birds chirping] [fire crackling] 17 years ago, and family and everything with no name, no reputation in the middle of Louisville, Kentucky. cheerful music I'm defined by two places, and I'm defined by two worlds of cuisine like Southern food that I grew up with. We were a working class immigrant family. Both my parents worked really long hours and my grandmother stayed home and cooked. That was my first memories of food so little by little, and I must have been eight or nine, I said, &quot;I'm gonna be a chef.&quot; YES<b>CHEF</b>.me <b>Louisville</b> Kentucky bluegrass music I love this place, It's not New York, As someone who wants to cook for a living, I couldn't ask for <b>Big Momma's</b> [Sheryl] Thank you. Please and thank you. Who's next in line to order, D? [Man] Let me get the breast with greens and sweet potatoes, please. It's on the wrong day, I been craving it too much. I can't stay outta here. I had never eaten collard greens, or fried catfish before I got down here and when I started eating that food, though it was very foreign to me and I had no history of it knew anything about it, that just spoke to me. Testing, one, two, three. [all laugh] What do you want to hear? Hello my friend [Sheryl] You got on the right shirt. Can I get some fried chicken? [Sheryl] Yes. Gimme like three pieces fried chicken, some greens and you got beans? Brown and white beans today. Yeah, can I get some of that All right. [Ed] Thank you. Dark, please, always dark. So the soul food that Big Momma cooks, they're very special foods from generation to generation a lot of written recipes It's really a sort of family tradition. The fact that those traditions who, you know, but that we can go in and sort of partake in this tradition family recipes is a very special thing. Want some dessert of the day? I'm watching my waistline, thank you. Now, when I first came to Louisville there was not a lot of Southern food wasn't very popular then and so when I had to learn I had to go to places like this, To learn about fried chicken and collards and braised cabbage and now that and there's cornbread It's important that we don't because they were holding the light, they were holding the flame about Southern food, when it wasn't in the food magazines, they were the ones holding the traditions, upkeeping the traditions and cooking them in a very authentic way Hello. [Sheryl] Hey chef Lee. Can I come in and say hi? How are you doing? Cause I lost weight, I look good? Cause you ain't been eating very-- [both laugh] That's the world famous technique I just wanted to say hello, for your food, I know you're an institution And that you make some [all laugh] How long you been doing this? 15 years next month. Well, I don't know how long it's gonna be? Why, she's gonna take over? Who? [Ed] Your daughter. She can't boil water. [Ed laughs] Did you hear what you said about you? [Sheryl] Yeah I know, That's all she do is taco salad. She don't cook. [Ed] What do you got over there, is that the salmon cooking? Uh-huh, you want one? I'm not gonna say no. No. Don't smell it to find out what's in it. [laughter] You slick. [Ed] I just wanna know I ain't telling you. I know. It's the same recipe or you kinda change 'em over the years? [Sheryl] Hey chef Lee. Same recipe? You still cooking. Are you? I am. Well this is amazing. Maybe I'll come in here Sure, you can. But listen, you know, at some point, like these things are treasures, you know? Like I'd hate to see them And they shouldn't be. These are recipes that should To me, to support these places and you know, you can gather recipes. And you know, these are, to me, these are like living treasures. And now that southern food is trendy, there's a risk that places like these and people like this get forgotten. And it's really important They're the reason why southern food My fried chicken doesn't exist And it's still not as good as hers. [nature sounds] mellow music [fire crackling] [flames whooshing] Bourbon is brown water. Of all the liquors in the world, it's probably the most simple and yet, it's the most complex The most important part is not the distillate, after you distill this corn whiskey. You put it in a charred barrel. It has to be new oak, The amount of char depends on who you talk to, but you basically, toast the inside of that barrel til it is completely blackened. So now you can imagine corn-tasting, darkened, charred barrel. And you close it up and You're getting this beautiful char, and oak, and tannin with this sweet corn. And over time, you get something which is to me, [birds chirping] bright music I still think the best bourbon but, you know, a lot of money into bourbon. Texas, and Colorado, and California and they're all trying But it's not an accident is made here. You know, we have the iron-free water. You know, even to this day, the white oak that we use is from Kentucky. I taste a lot of bourbons, you know, from distilleries that have been built in the last five years, you know what I mean? And while the skill is there, you know, and I can't put my finger on it but there's some... And I think it's something from generation to generation. Well it's time. You know, my grandfather, whiskey maker and that truly was-- that's all he was interested in. This is a bottle that I bought last week and this is from year two. [Ed] That's crazy. [Rob laughs] So year two, I mean, That would have been late 1959. To me, So it's something that I use a lot It adds a lot of complexity to food if you know how to use it right. I'm gonna make you oysters and grits It was really a cheap food, like a luxury thing. They were so good, we overfished them. And so now, they're running out and they've become kind of But in the old days, it really wasn't. So you know how like but you know, back in the day, if, you know, when shrimp like oysters would've been what you used. Cheers. Good to be with you. That's good. So this is basically just a vat of butter that I've browned. There's a little bit of bourbon in there and some salt, that's it. And that's gonna bubble up. And then really, really fresh oysters And I don't wanna cook 'em too long, just kinda poaching them, so. I've got some grits. Just really slowly cook them. A little bit of butter. And what I'm just gonna do Then I take this bourbon and brown butter, which I've used to poach the oysters Just a little squirt just to give it a little acidity. What kind of food do you like to eat? [Rob] Exactly what you're making. [laughter] [Ed] Really? <b>Oysters &amp; Grits</b> [bugs chirping] All right, so I'm really excited for you to try these oysters and grits. As am I. Oh my goodness. With, you know, and the grits, it all works, doesn't it? To me, there's something cool about bourbon 'cause you bring a little bit of smoky flavor. You know, there's always that like, leathery, hay-y kind of, The way I always tell people is like, if you're gonna use bourbon right, not as just a drink, like they did half the work for you. Bourbon in a pan, and really, Maybe butter, maybe some oil but the flavors already there. To take something that's been aged and then actually, you know, or a sauce, it's kind of the height of luxury, bright music How do you want yours cut? It was the craziest thing. I registered to go to culinary school. That night, I decided, I'm gonna go out with my friends, I was kinda workaholic. Turns out, it's like Wine Down Wednesday at this local place that everyone went to. And I run into another friend, We started talking His pick-up line was, Why the hell That was my in. I said, You don't have to take classes. I'll teach you everything And [laughs] she took me up on that offer of a beautiful marriage. It's the one and only time my culinary education to pick up a girl. You know, I don't know, how aggressive he was. I'm like, Oh, you're from New York. Okay, now I get it. I was born in Brooklyn, I got no business in Kentucky. I had a restaurant in New York You know, I had thought I'd made it. I was 25 and had a successful restaurant that I opened with myself in downtown Manhattan. We got New York Times, and French Vogue, and all these wonderful reviews and yet, I wasn't satisfied. There was something I didn't feel like it was my food. I felt something was empty about it. And I realized that I didn't I didn't realize I was never And I came here, I came to this place. Kentucky, to this very quiet place There was no gastronomic movement here. I had the freedom and reins all by myself with no help and I could just do whatever I want. You know, to many, that was a huge failure because I was on top of the world in New York City and all of a sudden, I left New York City and everything I had to go to Louisville, You know, 610 had such a great, in this town, an historical reputation. And a lot of people were very skeptical that this New York guy do it justice. So he really had to work very, very hard to prove himself. For the first six months, There were nights when I had four or five people dining We seat 55 and I remember distinctly I can say firsthand that I witnessed one of the hardest working-- sorry, I choke up. tranquil music Really, you know, there were some very awful, depressing nights bright thing that, and she would constantly be my best cheerleader, that you're gonna do it. She saw something in me that I didn't necessarily Okay. I witnessed firsthand crushing work ethic that His dedication and his intelligence and his creativity all combined together and then the hours, and hours, and hours that he put into it. Seven or eight months into it, you know, fully booked Saturday night. And I remember distinctly, you know, opening the papers and I just remember down the list and going, Wow. I felt like I made it from looking at that piece of paper. I still have that piece of paper. Which is funny, right? Because in this day in age, if you're not fully booked you're already a failure. And it took me seven months Saturday night and most restaurants would have closed by then. I'm so proud of that because for every customer that came in the door. And now we have to turn away, you know, people every weekend. So I found, you know, my vision, I found what I wanna cook, that when I found Kentucky, To me, family is super important. When all this is said and done, you know, you're still gonna have your family. It's why I do all this. You know, it's funny that like I've always cooked for customers, for adults but when I had a daughter it just had a different meaning. This person, this being is relying and it took on a different I became very obsessed with reading, you know, ingredients and food packages and we never ate baby food. I mean, we just made ever since she was an infant. Don't open it. You mean like this, don't open-- [laughter] I always espoused from anyone and you can, you know, experience the world food from a chef but, what better way from a three year-old? Kay, one, two, three. [popcorn popping] Come on, let's eat these up. I think we got more outside Will you sprinkle A little bit of salt. You mean this much? Yeah, yeah. Very nice, very nice. [Arden] And a little more. And a little bit more salt for me please. That's it, no more salt. It's gonna get too salty. See that? Simple doesn't mean simple just means that you're focused. All your training, all your abilities, all your energy is focused of ingredients and how we cook them well. Can you crush the popcorn Just very wonderful thing that has a few ingredients but that can have explosive memories. Every single person You know, my daughter's smelling things, trying new things, You know, sort of going in in this very instinctual manner, And that's just me, there's a way in which just a few simple ingredients. Hey. Thank you. [birds chirping] [crickets chirping] The cooking process doesn't start The cooking process starts here. When I first started cooking, you know, when I got and I put on my uniform Like that was, as a chef, And it ended when I took off my coat and I clocked out. And as you get older, you're learning, Well, you know, of thinking about it. The food starts with who grew my cattle? You know, who's harvesting the vegetables? Food happens as much outside the kitchen as it does inside the kitchen. [birds chirping] <b>Foxhollow Farm</b> So those are one year old weaned from their mama to be beef. And what age will you slaughter? Two years. Grass-fed beef is obviously So that's a big, important thing, to the farmers market, ask the farmer, Are they grass-fed and grass finished? Cause a lot of people claim-- they were finished on-- yeah, yeah, So it's really important to keep the soil and the grass healthy. Yes, it's really important. We're pretty much grass farmers. I mean, we have cattle, So Derek has his Master's in forages. Which is grasses. Derek, this is chef Ed. Hey, man. How you doing? Nice to meet you. You're the cow-herder. I am. I was pretty impressed all to move so quickly. When I look at the difference a commercial corn-fed cow, steak, and one of yours, it's almost like they come That's from the grass. I mean, when you've got that you don't get the depths of flavor. I think seeing this and how much thought and resources go into this, you know, that pound of meat just means so much more. It's hard to look at mellow guitar music People always think like, magical power, right? Where I can like, touch something and it makes it delicious. Chefs, we don't create flavor. We just take good flavors and figure out how to combine them in a way on a plate Number one thing for me you should go to a local farm. Honestly, without you, I don't have a job. I think where we're going bring the farmer into this discussion But we can harvest some stuff here? Pavel:Sure, yeah. mellow guitar music Well we got some candy onions over here and these are fresh. We're just doing a small barbecue, so. You just need a couple, okay. [Ed] Just need a couple. And these are It's always interesting to see broccoli growing you know, we just use this little part and all of this goes to waste. We've been figuring, you know, cause we throw stuff in our greenhouse and we've been figuring out ways to use the leaves, the stems... They're all really delicious. Right, like the stem of broccoli is really similar to kohlrabi. The leaves are similar to collards. And the stems are delicious. The stems are great. [Ed] Do vegetables become like your kids? [Pavel] It's really satisfying At the farmers market, people love them. upbeat guitar music I think when you have a vegetable and flavorful, That kinda cooking for me, especially when we cook at home. You don't have time, or money, or the staff to make these beautiful like, 10 garnish dishes. You really wanna just focus on the beauty, and simplicity of a single beet and make that shine, mellow music [crickets chirping] [fire crackling] I heard you got some nice cuts Yeah, I do. What do you got? So we have some flat irons and some skirt steaks. The flank, which will be really nice. Some ribeyes. One of my favorites. That's a favorite. What would you tell me about Pretty much all of grass-fed beef, like, if you overcook it, [Ed] Right. Cause it's very lean. [Maggie] Yeah, exactly. bluegrass music [Ed] All right, [Maggie] Great. Like, this all comes from your farm. Yeah, definitely. Pavel's garden, he grows all this... Will you just cut up whatever you want and we'll throw it on the grill? [Maggie] Yeah, for sure. So I'm gonna salt these steaks. One of the things that I always tell people, you go to a restaurant and then you go home like anything and they're like, Why is that? I'm like, It's just salt. It's like, So for me, it's all about timing-- let me see, let's throw the veggies The veggies always take longer. [Maggie] So you can put olive oil Yes, I do. You will obviously get but you oil first and then salt. And then I will do probably the big ass ribeyes first. And let that go bluegrass music Do you know what a compound butter is? [Maggie] I don't. So this is what I call a kalbi butter. This is going to warm It's a Korean barbecue where you take a bunch of ginger, and you kind of mash it together and you grill it. So what I did was, but then put it into a compound butter. So I microplane bluegrass music All right, taste that butter now. Oh my. [Ed] Is that good? [Maggie] That's incredible. Basically, I'm gonna baste the steaks and that soy sauce and the sesame oil, right into the steaks. And I'm gonna do when these get done, I'm just gonna throw this into this pan here and let it rest. This is the super fun part. funky music That top side that's kind of like, sitting in a pool of butter, that sugar is gonna stick to the steak and it's gonna caramelize things. funky music These veggies are done. All right, so we got our meat. [Maggie] Great. That's a ribeye cut Rule of thumb, cook it very quickly. When something is really rare, you will see your indentation See that? [Maggie] Yeah. And when something it kinda bounces back really quickly. mellow music All right, you ready to do a taste test? I would love to do a taste test. mellow music And this is how I love to serve it. All right, ready? [Maggie] Yeah. Yum. It's really nice. Beautiful. Beautiful cut. mellow guitar music And kinda do it around top, there you go. Oh wow, thank you. Oh my. That's incredible. That's good, huh? I didn't see you going there. And the flavor is so deep, Like this has just enough chew. I almost feel like I taste the earth with that cut, you know? It's a really super nice cut. All right here, cheers. [Maggie] Cheers. A little dip. That's nice. Do you ever just stop God damn, this is pretty. Definitely. Incredible. [Ed] Thank you very much. Thanks for coming out. upbeat music funky music My food is really just a story that has been built over many years. My restaurants run so differently than the system When it comes to creation it is not the voice dominating the entire crew. It's not a top-down. Prevailing wisdom used to be, you know, if you're young and you have very little experience, then you must be an idiot and you have nothing to contribute to this dialogue. Like I am the chef, I am the only one whose opinion is valid. That's good. And many restaurants still work that way and many great restaurants But there are a growing and people, and chefs, and other creatives who are saying, You know, just because you are young, just because just because you are not from Europe, just because you are a woman, just because maybe you still have Maybe, in fact, funky music My name is Lindsey Ofcacek. I'm the co-founder I founded this project You know, two Novembers ago was breaking in the media, that we all looked up to Edward and I sat down We wanted to figure out in this industry to be exposed and we wanted women respect in this industry A mentorship was the best way funky music Most young chefs, the James Beard House one day. You know, some chefs never, never get there. It's something that we have as the culmination and it's a way for you to showcase to tell your story. There will be media there, It's in New York during Fashion Week, and it's' a lot of pressure. We want to make sure and that's where Edward comes in. So we're tasting all your dishes today. It's individual plates an entire dinner as well. So figuring out how you want to plate your dish, and then how we're going 85, 90 plates, all right? So we're here basically My job is to make your dish better. So I'm gonna taste your dish how we can make it 85 times in a half hour, all right? So this dinner goes well, it makes you guys look good, not me. All right? So good luck. upbeat music And I don't care if you're a home cook, or if you're an accomplished, you know, global catering company, without confidence And so our thing is we're gonna give them real life situations, real places where the pressure is on and they have to perform. So my dish today is a braised short rib with a barbecue jus. Smoked butternut squash puree, a tomato relish that is a little spicy with Crispy fingerling potatoes Are you gonna braise it here and bring it or are you gonna do it over there? [Maggie] Yeah, exactly. Be careful. The texture of that Braised beef can get over-braised because you're gonna like vac bags and... The one thing, when you vac it, it'll compress the meat Get tough again. Yeah, 'cause you're basically So you're almost better braising it and letting it You know what I mean? Like putting the whole thing and letting it just kind of, you know, store in that liquid of moisture going in and out. Thank you, Breanna. Thank you. All right, so this is a lake trout. It's been cured in the We've got lima bean hummus, I really did not enjoy I was very lucky to have a mom every night but wouldn't use like, any butter, or oil, or salt so I would kind of cover and ketchup or like, And so I really wanted I like this. By the way, [laughter] Which is why I learned how to cook. jazzy piano music To me, when I see a dish that has 12 different components and elements, you're trying to hide something that it's simple and you're like, This is it, I've got three things. I got a tomato, a puree, and a trout. If you don't like 'em, fuck off. Thank you. bright music So this is carrot cake. I spiced my carrot cake with cardamom, so it's a little different. And then in between the layers, candied pecans and cream cheese frosting. And then I have deep fried, and then dehydrated coated with praline sauce. To me, every element is sweet and so you're just getting on top of sweet on top of sweet. I think there needs And I know the carrot cake stack but it's very sweet, the whole thing. You can have sugar in there, I just think you need something Okay. bright music Your menu is fantastic. No one gets it right on the first time. We're gonna tweak our dishes, These are all your dishes, and you're gonna be cooking them on the biggest stage in America. At the same time, I want you to focus don't forget to also Thank you. This has been great. Thank you, chef. [applause] mellow jazzy music Home isn't a physical place, though, Home is a state of mind so like, home is when I'm in the kitchen just playing with food in my actual house But if I'm in a kitchen and I get to play with food, I'm at home. The beauty of food is that you share it. There's nothing about food that I wanna keep under lock and key. But like, you know, gosh, I discovered this place And it's this incredible oriental market in the middle of Louisville, Kentucky. And to me, I just wanna share it with the world. mellow jazzy music We were a working class immigrant family so both my parents and my grandmother stayed home Whether she was, you know, or making miso or fermenting gochujang, like there was always something There was lots of jars of weird things that were always fermenting. From the time I was a little kid, about what that was that was going on. How are you? Good? Your health is good? Yep. Big size. [laughs] Your dad just called me fat. He calls everyone fat. mellow jazzy music I hope when we do experiments that they're not all successes. That would be boring. Part of experimentation The only way you're gonna know is you have to also establish I didn't ask for these. Those are mine. What happens when you take a risk is you will absolutely fail. You will absolutely burn something, oversalt something, That's what happens. But when you do that, the brain starts to take over Your brain starts to go, Wait a second. Let's fry the bologna so I get like, a... Like almost like a blackened bologna setup. It's important to try foods and things that you you'll also know what you don't like. And then you start to create that you know works for you. And that as a foundation when you start to understand and how you're gonna cook for yourself and what kinda recipes you wanna make. For me, I'm trying to figure out how far you can push the burnt flavor you know, inedible. Edward does have this like, kind of... He burns things every now and then. Let's grab a notebook on what we like and what we don't. [Kevin] Yes, chef. Super brown on each side? You wanna try one of these peaches Get it real dark? Sure. It'd be nice to do like an unripe peach. He's still chef to me. Like he's always, yeah. He's my mentor, he's the guy What do you think about this? What do you think about that? More, yeah? I definitely think because of him. jazzy music Peach. I like it. I actually, I like it texturally Yeah, it gives it Can even take it a little further. You can take it a lot further, I think. jazzy music That's awful. jazzy music And then with strawberries, we're... Look at that, that's a beautiful cut. [Kevin] Yeah, that's beautiful. I don't like the flavor though. The scallops. That's interesting. Yeah. Sweet, smoky, fishy. And the funny thing is, it doesn't taste burnt at all to me. It doesn't taste burnt but I like the texture. It really falls apart. jazzy music [Ed] This is my jam right here. No doubt. When you get a bologna sandwich, that sear on it. That's perfect. Something about the burnt part and it kinda gives way to the fatty. Like that contrast between burnt and fat. Really nice. The pineapple overpowers it though. Makes it too... Just, I guess it's all the acid. Just totally wipes out They're all burnt the burn flavor If you cook an onion every day for the past 10 years and it comes out perfectly every time, that's not learning. You're just executing. Learning happens do something different, Cool, man. Well let's do this, Let's put this in our log notes. Maybe we'll start thinking where we can incorporate funky music Ed and I met a few years ago. I went to one of the special events Me and my wife love a good party everybody else was pretty much leaving and he and I were sitting there And he found out He said he wanted So we talked and put together an event and he prepared a meal that were in the youth detention. And not just the young people, As a result, he and I become pretty close over the last few years. I've been to his house, That's kinda why we're here. When he called me, I'm like, Man, great, you know, whatever you need, cause if I call him, funky music Ooh, look like we getting ready to have an interesting party. [wind blowing] We gotta cover for it, but... funky music What's up, folks? Doing all right? funky music You know, communion, it's about friends, I mean, these are the times and have relationships someone brings a six pack of beer, and we get together. It's a participation thing. Everyone gets together funky music How you doing, man? Man, I'm doing great. Doing great. Glad we got past this crazy weather. Yeah, what are we doing here? Man, these look nice. Are these ready to go? They're pretty close. So we got the sweet potatoes on here and the fire's a little extra hot cause I threw some extra coals on there while we were waiting Is that enough bacon? Cause I'm gonna eat like that much. [Ben] So that's the greedy I'm honored that Yeah. Well you know, I'm gonna see how you do. All right. I am a professional chef, after all. Yeah, well. I mean, that's what you call yourself. You got a license or anything? I actually do. I do. Try that. This is my barbecue sauce. Try that. Can you guess what's in it? [Ben] I definitely tasted the mustard but it wasn't overpowering mustard, I could just tell it was mustard. Bananas. [Ben] Are you serious? Roasted bananas. You're the first one to try it. Well I'ma give you a passing grade. Okay. That's good enough for me. It's just family, it's friends, You can't beat this kind of thing continuing to be human. Can you see some of this bacon You smelling like smoke, you know, out there screaming, Look at those tomahawks. [Ed] It's gonna flame up. [Ben] Yeah. Hey, call the fire department. [laughter] We got a three alarm fire going on here. Holy moly. Call Domino's Pizza now. [laughter] funky music At the end of the day, That plate of food, as beautiful and as delicious as it is, it's gone in a few minutes. [laughter] How you doing? [Arden] Good. Did you have a good day? [Arden] Yeah. Yeah? So good to see you. [Arden] Can you let me go? Yes. Oh, I thought you were trying-- I thought she was trying she's trying to get a muffin. [Arden] Yeah. funky music The only thing permanent our experiences, the people, because of food. I think we're ready. Ben? You say so. So everybody enjoy. Every single person has an incredible story to tell through food. And that's the beauty of food. Is you have this incredible freedom You know, I can teach you a recipe, I can teach you 10 recipes, but that's not going to mean how to cook. If I wanna teach you a song, how to play an instrument. funky music &quot;<b>Tomahawk</b> <b>Grilled Quail</b> &quot;<b>Asparagus</b> <b>Oysters and Grits</b> <b>Fried Chicken</b> <b>Korean Kalbi</b> <b>Traditional Ribeye</b> <b>Flank Steak</b> The more you cook art form, the better you get at it and the more you start And once you get that, you're cooking for real. And then it's limitless what you can do. YES<b>CHEF</b>.me mellow music