- The number of weather, climate, and water-related disasters has increased fivefold leading to losses of over 200 million U.S. dollars every day. But where on Earth is the We've covered increasingly wildfires, droughts, and extreme rainfall, just to name a few. But it's time we asked just how extreme can The answer isn't quite as straightforward as you might expect, so the hottest, coldest, windiest, driest and wettest conditions that It turns out there is on one spot where Mother reaches its peak, and honestly, its location (intense music) Thank you to Wren for supporting PBS. (water babbling) Water is our most vital natural resource. Humans can only survive so it seems fair to begin our with the driest place on Earth, especially when it's as dry as this place. This 600-mile stretch of barren land tucked between Peru and northern Chile is the Atacama Desert, and certain areas are untouched by rain for centuries. To understand what can possibly let's begin by looking up to called the Hadley cell. Its story begins at the equator, where the sun's intense heat Once high in the atmosphere, forming clouds and heavy rainfall, creating the world's lush As this now dry air continues its journey away from the equator, it further cools and descends around 30 where it suppresses cloud formation and leads to the creation of the world's major desert regions, including the Sahara, the Sonoran, and of course the Atacama. But the Atacama's extreme dryness isn't only due to the Hadley cell. It's also intensified by something called This is where mountains block prevailing moisture-laden winds, causing one side to receive while leaving the other side dry. And in the case of the Atacama, it's subjected to not So, thanks to its unique position between the moisture-depleting Andes and the Chilean coastal range, the Atacama Desert exists in a place where the conditions for rainfall are essentially negated. Another especially dry receiving less than two But Death Valley is than anything else. In fact, it's commonly considered to be the hottest place on Earth. And in the U.S., extreme heat is the deadliest kind of weather. Death Valley not only for the hottest air but also hits triple digits The first reason Death such blistering temperatures Arid landscapes tend to experience greater temperature extremes, and at 36 degrees north, Death Valley is located thanks again to our old Water has a high heat capacity, meaning that it can absorb a lot of heat before it starts to warm up, so in places with more moisture, the sun's energy is spent rather than increasing temperature. But in an arid environment there's very little water to absorb and dissipate the sun's energy, so, instead, it all goes into And the valley floor here is This causes the ground to become superheated. On some occasions, have even exceeded 200 degrees Fahrenheit. One last major factor contributing to Death is the fact that it's in the Western Hemisphere, at about 282 feet below sea level. This exceptionally low elevation creates a sort of natural oven. As air descends from the it compresses and warms up, further amplifying the heat in the valley. Another meteorological phenomenon dictated by our sun is the wind. When the sun heats the Earth's surface, the air above the land warms up and expands, becoming less dense, and creating an area of low pressure. The cooler, denser air over the oceans or other cool surfaces then left by the rising warm air. So wind, in a nutshell, is just air moving from high pressure to low pressure. Wellington, New Zealand is considered the windiest with an average wind speed The main reason for this is something called the Venturi effect. Wellington is located which acts as a wind funnel channeling air between To help understand this, the end of a hose with your thumb. This compresses the water forcing it to speed up as it escapes. But while Wellington may be there's somewhere orders where the atmosphere quite literally collapses under its own weight. High atop the East Antarctic Plateau, at nearly 10,000 feet of elevation, we find the coldest place on Earth as well as the source of its But here the air is eerily calm and still. As it cools over the plateau, it becomes denser and heavier, and, like water finding its path downhill, this chilled air is drawn cascading off the elevated interior and hurtling towards the coast. This falling air is and in Antarctica, thanks to its uninterrupted slope hundreds of miles in length, routinely reach speeds (wind howling) Each year, the monsoons and nearly 40 feet of rain to the villages of in northeast India. Remember the rain shadow effect that leaves one side of Well, Mawsynram and Cherrapunji, located on the windward experience the opposite effect, known as orographic lift. These villages lie directly in the path of monsoon clouds sweeping so when this warm moist air encounters the steep it's forced upward, causing the air to cool and condense, forming clouds that, in this case, release more water than While Mawsynram receives on average than Cherrapunji, Cherrapunji holds the for annual rainfall, receiving nearly 87 feet, over a 12-month period. So far, we've looked at some of precipitation, temperature, and wind. But if you're looking for the on the planet, measuring these different unique characteristics against each other kind of feels like comparing So what if I told you that there was one place Hurricane-force winds around the kind of cold seen few and extreme levels of precipitation, and that it's located in... New Hampshire? Welcome to Mount Washington. Mount Washington is a modest standing over just 6,000 feet tall, but it's anything but ordinary. To many meteorologists it's known as the home of And in case you're thinking there's no way that it as somewhere like check out these records. The Mount Washington Observatory clocked the highest wind speed ever observed by human, And just this February, when temperatures and winds gusted to 122 miles per hour, the mountains set the North at -108 degrees. Add to that an annual and 281 inches of snowfall, and you begin to see why this got its nickname. But how can a mountain in New Hampshire of all places, be home to such extreme conditions? - A lot of our extreme weather has to do with our topography. That's sort of the first factor. - Mount Washington is the east of the Mississippi, leaving it exposed to as they sweep across the country. - And we're the tallest so of course, really, there's that's gonna slow down the jet stream as it makes its way into New England. - And not only is Mount Washington the tallest mountain in the area, but it also sits at the which leads to the Venturi effect, similar to what we saw in - So there's a bit of a and Mount Washington so winds are actually - The wind also gets squeezed vertically as it races over and around the summit, creating a kind of double Venturi effect. Another factor for Mount is its position at 44.27 degrees north, which places it almost between the equator and the poles. - Being in the mid latitudes, we get a lot of those storms frequently. Cold air from the north is clashing with more tropical air to the south. So Mount Washington, just by dumb luck, is sort of in that battle zone, particularly during the winter, - And the final ingredient that really sets Mount - But really what makes us different is that we're in a really Moisture really allows for and so just the tendency We can have a really unstable environment up here on the summit, and so, yeah, we may not be the tallest mountain in the world, but in terms of moisture we have some of the worst - So what do you think? Did we convince you that Mount Washington should be called home to Or do you think another place might be deserving of the title? Thank you Wren for supporting PBS. Wren is a website where you then offset it by funding protect rainforests, and By answering a few questions you can find out your carbon footprint and how you can reduce it. No one can reduce their so you can offset what you Subscribers receive monthly updates from the tree planting, and carbon removal You can get to see the trees you planted and what your money is spent on. You can learn more about Wren's