Translator: Bob Prottas Hello. So I'm here to tell you that what you has changed what you have learned, continues to change your learning, So, how many people here -- have ever been given the idea or that they can't go onto they haven't got the brains for it? Let's see a show of hands. So, quite a few of us. And I'm here to tell you it is disproven by the brain science. But it is fueled by a single myth that's very strong and very dangerous. And the myth is that there's that you're born with one, or you're not. We don't believe this We don't think we're born We think you have to learn those. But with math, people, teachers believe it, parents believe it. And until we change that single myth we will continue to have widespread Carol Dweck's research that if you believe you will achieve at higher levels And an incredible study on mistakes So Jason Moser and his colleagues that your brain grows Fantastic. When you make a mistake, And in fact in their MRI scans they found that when people When they got work correct So making mistakes is really good. And we want students to know this. But they found something else This image shows you And what you can see here who believe that they had they could learn anything, when they made a mistake, than the people who didn't believe So this shows us something that brain That our cognition, and what we learn is linked to our beliefs, And this is important for all of us If you go into a difficult situation, and you think to yourself: and you mess up or fail, your brain will grow more, than if you go &quot;I don't think I can do this.&quot; So it's really important that we change We know that anybody can grow their brain, and brains are so plastic, We have to get this out to kids. They have to know that mistakes But maths classrooms It's not just about We have to fundamentally change And we want kids to have a growth mindset, to believe that they can grow, But it's very difficult If you're constantly given short, closed those questions themselves transmit fixed messages about math, So we have to open up maths questions so that there's I want to give you an example. We're actually going to ask you So this is a fairly typical problem, I want you to think about it differently. In case 2 there's more squares and in case 3 there's even more. Often this is given out with the question: &quot;How many squares would there be I want you to think I want you to think without any numbers I want you to think entirely visually, and I want you to think about If there are more squares So if we were in a classroom, I'd give you In the interest of time, people think about this, and I've given and I think it was my undergrads or one of them said to me: &quot;Oh, I see it like raindrops. So it's like an outer layer, It was also my undergrads who said: &quot;Oh no, I see it more You get an extra row, like a row of skittles A very different way of seeing the growth. It was a teacher, I remember, &quot;The center goes up, [Laughter] Another teacher said: &quot;Oh no, The shape separates, and there's I remember this was -- Some people see it as triangles. They see the outside growing And then there was a teacher &quot;Oh it's like Wyane's World, [Laughter] And then we have this way of seeing it. If you move the squares, and you rearrange the shape a bit, you'll see that it actually So, this is what I want to illustrate &quot;When it's given out in maths classrooms, it's given out with a question of: So they'll say: &quot;In the first case there's 4. They might stare at that column of numbers &quot;If you add one to the case number then you get the total number of squares.&quot; But when we give it to students, I'll say to them when they've done this: &quot;So why is that squared? They'll say: &quot;No idea.&quot; So this is why it's squared. You see that squaring So when we give these problems to students We ask them: &quot;How they see it?&quot; They have these rich discussions, about a really important So we actually need a revolution We need to change a lot of things. And part of the reason is because research is not getting into schools And I'm going to give you So this is really interesting. When we calculate -- where a brain area we're not using fingers, but that brain area So there's a brain area and there's a brain area And it turns out that seeing fingers And in fact finger perception is -- Scientists test for finger perception by asking them to put they can't see them touching a finger, and then seeing if you know The number of university students predicts their calculation scores. The number of finger perception is a better prediction than test scores. It is that important. But what happens Students are told they're not allowed They're told it's babyish. When we stop children it's akin to halting And scientists have known this And the neuroscientists conclude that fingers should be used for students If we haven't published -- We published this in a paper I don't know any educator who knew this. This is causing a huge ripple There's lots of other research We know when you perform a calculation the brain is involved in a complex between different areas of the brain, Yet, maths classrooms are not visual, I want to show you now what happened when we brought 81 students and we taught them differently. So we taught them about the brain growing. We taught about mindset and mistakes. But we as also taught them creative, They came in for 18 lessons with us. Before they came to us they had taken We gave them the same test and they improved by an average of 50%. Eighty one students, told us on the first day: They could name the one person We changed their beliefs. And this is a clip from a longer But we keep talking Can't stop, won't stop solving It's like something is growing In our minds every time we try again. 'Cause the haters gonna hate, We will make mistakes, We're just gonna shake, Shake it off! Shake it off! Our method's gonna break, It's not a piece of cake, We're just gonna shake, Shake it off! Shake it off! We represent things visually, Present them to our class clearly So that they can see So that they can see We know our brains can grow Who cases how fast we go? Understanding's what we show Understanding's what we show So we keep trying Synapses are firing This problem's so exciting It's so cool that I want to go So -- (Applause) We need to get research out to teachers. If you don't believe me, He's a middle schooler, to shift from worksheet math This is him reflecting on that shift. Math class last year and your own little box -- You were by yourself, But now this year is just open. It's like a city -- we're all working together I think the challenges, If I keep on pushing, if I keep on doing this We have focused for so long in education, in maths education, on the right way on the standards we use in classrooms and we've completely ignored the beliefs And only now to attend to that coming to light. We all have to believe in ourselves to unlock our unlimited potential. Thank you. (Applause)