Out of approximately 23,000 operational business jet is arguably the most important one. You see, this jet plane is not just giving Instead it is filled with scientists. The scientists who not only save lives, but the American taxpayers each year. Owned by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric mission is to fly into hurricanes, as frequently season . Hurricanes form over oceans and while cannot predict their movement. But more importantly, satellites cannot determine the maximum sustained wind speeds at the surface, how bad the hurricane actually is! The only way to get this information is to eye. Why use airplanes to do this? Well, you wouldn't want to send a ship into Not only would it be incredibly slow, but And you don't really want to wait for the because by that point it would be too late. So the only viable option is to fly an aircraft But why out of all commercial airplanes, only of hurricane reconnaissance missions, why of a hurricane while moving exactly at 210 is Not What You Think. Back in 1943, as the Surprise Hurricane was evacuating their AT-6 Texan trainer aircraft This was noticed by British pilots who were later started poking fun at their instructors, structural integrity. The flying school commander, Colonel Joseph bet his British students that he could fly intact. And he did! But only to immediately fly back into the time with the air base's weather officer, And that is how the US Air Force began collecting Three years later, in 1946, the term "Hurricane who flew weather reconnaissance missions into Today, the Hurricane Hunter duties are performed Wing of the US Air Force Reserve. The NOAA hurricane hunters fleet consists Piggy" and "Kermit", and also "Gonzo" Fun fact, Miss Piggy got her name as she suffered to as "the pig of the fleet". After some TLC that restored the aircraft Meanwhile, the 53rd Weather reconnaissance that perform hurricane surveillance missions. The Hurricane Hunters can conduct up to 5 operations with the ability to fly into up Typical hurricane hunters' mission lasts on station. Frequently, Air Force and NOAA Hurricane Hunters constant data flowing into the forecast models. In fact, flying into the hurricane non-stop with the required data to make accurate predictions The Gulfstream business jet alone can improve And it has been doing so since 1997. Combine the business jet data with WP-3D Orions of a hurricane and you get an additional 30% accuracy. But to be clear, the forecast accuracy comes that began in the mid 1980s. Anywhere between 20 to 40 dropsondes are deployed They measure temperature, humidity, wind speed The data is collected and transmitted in real-time link for further processing, all while the help of a parachute. What happens to the dropsondes? They are mostly biodegradable. The increased accuracy in the hurricane forecast population centers to prepare for the storm. It also saves a lot of money. Reducing the forecast error by 25% means reducing people won't have to be evacuated unnecessarily. This saves public agencies tens of millions Besides dropsondes, hurricane hunters are into more dangerous parts of the hurricane. This will provide additional data which works dropsondes. Hurricane Hunter aircraft are also equipped The business jet is equipped with a tail doppler tail radar and a lower fuselage radar. The idea is to look at a hurricane like it's "easy", but to see all the layers that Additionally, the Orions are equipped with help measure surface level wind speed and But why does NOAA fly two distinct aircraft Each aircraft has a different mission. The mission of WP-3Ds and WC-130s is to find which involves flying inside the eye of the Both aircraft fly in an alpha pattern at 8 of the way between the surface and top of They penetrate the eye of the hurricane multiple Each penetration is referred to as "penny", penny flights, will become a member of the In contrast, the business jet flies much higher, it while collecting data on how the surrounding The data collected by the Gulfstreams dropsondes which direction the hurricane will go, while figure out how bad the storm actually is. According to the pilots, flying through a ... through a car wash! But every storm is different and has its own different name. Sometimes you can have extreme turbulence, Imagine a table top, the faster it spins, That is a category 5 hurricane. But as it starts to slow down, or lose its determines how rough of a ride it will be. Another fun fact: no hurricane in the Atlantics it would destroy everything! All three hurricane hunter aircraft also have of the aircraft. It helps pilots avoid flying through dangerous The crew don't mind flying through the red magenta, which means heavier rain and more Flashing white means severe turbulence. With smaller hurricanes, if there's a bad But with category 4 or category 5 hurricanes, way to avoid it. The aircraft has to fly through it. Flying an aircraft in the middle of a hurricane, is a very different operation from flying When it gets too turbulent, the autopilot manually. This can get stressful and tiring for a pilot three pilots onboard. Two pilots are flying, while the third one NOAA's business jet also frequently employs missions. Besides the three pilots on the Orion, there's pilots. The pilot on the left makes sure that aircraft Meanwhile, the pilot on the right monitors with the rest of the crew and backs the other The flight engineer is responsible for the power levers from max power to idle in mere This is not how one would normally fly this other choice. The speed and direction of winds change incredibly If airspeed drops to 200 knots while at max to pitch down to gain more speed ... or risk On the flip side, flying too fast can put also too turbulent. The flight engineer's goal is to keep the too fast nor too slow. But it makes you wonder: why fly a business Why not use one of the existing turboprops a Boeing 737 passenger jet? The issue with turboprop engines is that they The Orion and the WC-130 both max out at about Same with commercial jets. They fly at 30,000 to 40,000 feet, and there Jet engines operate most efficiently at higher at 30,000 feet compared to ground level. But if you climb too high, over 40,000 feet, produce enough thrust and for wings to generate Another consideration for commercial jets, or TUC, which refers to how long a person decompression. At an altitude of 35,000ft, TUC is between 50,000ft, TUC is reduced to just five seconds, put on their oxygen masks. Military airplanes can fly higher than commercial can reach altitudes of 73,000 feet. But it would be too small to carry all the Now the B-52 Stratofortress can fly as high 43,000 feet, its range is severely diminished. Not to mention that it would be impractical The remaining option is business jets, which feet. In the case of NOAA's Gulfstream-IV business the hurricane, which is perfect for high altitude The gulfstream samples the upper and lower the hurricane's movement. Furthermore, deploying dropsondes from 45,000 hurricane, since it takes 15 minutes for dropsondes But how come business jets can fly so high? If you guessed it's because flying at higher so rich people can get to their destination The reality is that business jets have larger that's what allows them to cruise at higher But why are turboprops used to fly into hurricanes, The eyewall of a hurricane is basically non-stop It's the largest amount of rain you can imagine If you fly a turbofan through it, the engine amounts of water ingested. In contrast, the propeller in front of a much keeps a lot of the water from coming into The second reason is that when it comes to quickly compared to turbofans. Turbofan engines have a 1 to 2 second delay, up. In contrast, the thrust from a propeller can blades, without having to change the engine This allows for near instantaneous ability useful when trying to fly at the constant Finally, turboprops are more efficient at Flying at lower speeds through the eyewall airframe. It also allows the hurricane hunters to spend the necessary measurements. All this said, is it actually safe to fly Since the inception of the hurricane hunters, hurricanes. The last incident occurred on October 12th, and lost radio contact. The aircraft was never found, and all six There are definitely risks involved in flying if it's your full time job. To the people who put their lives on the line on incoming hurricanes, "thank you". As early as 2024, The NOAA's Gonzo business G550 which can fly even higher at 51,000 feet. As for Miss Piggy and Kermit, they are planned replacement. And with regards to WC-130s, I guess they