Today is my 40th birthday. And if I could go back to talk and give him some advice, here are 40 Number one, make sure you are climbing Too many of us are exhausted because we are doing too and are chasing someone else's This is why it is far up the right mountain than it is When you focus on direction over speed, you will find greater enjoyment Number two. Stop making your health a side hustle. moment that you sacrifice your health is the moment that your overall well-being Your health is the most valuable asset Without it, nothing else matters. Life is hard enough as it is. Don't make it harder Energy, you see, is earned and not given. And it is earned by sleeping more, eating better So work with your body, not against it. If not, you will eventually be faced but to spend a lot of time Number three, how you spend If you are not prioritizing your goals, you will never arrive I mean, if you don't do anything different today. You will never change your life unless you change something you do daily. So care less about Because world class results And this leads me on to Number four, take responsibility for your life. No one is coming to save you. And this is why you must step up Taking full ownership of your life that you can do Because the pain of doing will always be worse than the pain Most people, unfortunately, are allergic preferring instead to complain and blame. Don't be most people. Number five have a bias to action. The only real failure in life is never trying or taking action The average human life is short it is at 73 years) We all know deep down that life is short and we will face death eventually. But few of us appreciate this. If we did, Losing my mom at just 17 years old The future is never guaranteed, taught me the importance Time is something we can't make more of. So we must be careful about what we decide Because once it is gone, And this leads nicely onto number six. Extraordinary results come from repeating ordinary actions Much of success in life, you see, is built that most are not willing to do. And if you can't do something you probably won't succeed at it. There is no such thing only over time success. So be patient with the process Number seven, Ryan Holiday wrote an article in 2015 Life Hack No One Told You About." And I because without having my wife, Laurie I would not be enjoying many of the things We have been together My success is our success. Her success is our success. And when faced with challenges we look to overcome When choosing a life partner, therefore, as you and who is also focused on Number eight, you with the wisdom Just because your past was hard does It is from life's inevitable challenges your greatest personal growth, And the tougher the times, about what really matters Number nine, public speaking is one of the most Your ability to touch people's and inspiring them will open you up So develop your storytelling skills Number ten. Speak to yourself in the same way you This is because the most powerful dialogue is the one within yourself each day. Your mind can be your best friend Number 11. One of the best ways to advance physical, mental and digital - paves for clearer because nobody performs well when pulled Number 12 be fully present especially your loved ones. One of the greatest gifts is the feeling that they've been heard, This is because people as much as they want So wherever you are, be there. Whether that is having dinner with your children, or spending quality Number 13. The only competition Yesterday's you, Focus on outdoing your past self And if you are going to look at others, look at them for inspiration, Number 14. Not everyone will like you. And that's okay When you put yourself out that will hate you whatever you do. That's okay. You're not ice cream. You can't please everyone. You can't escape being judged. So you might as well live a life Not a life lived for others. Number 15. Get clear on your priorities How will you know that Begin with the end in mind, work backwards Number 16. Be bold and take some risks. Not all risk takers will be winners, If you want to enjoy a life the most So be bold and start stretching yourself Put that ask out there. Start on the idea that you've been Go to that event. Say yes to that opportunity. Do this every day Number 17. You get what you focus your energy on. Focus on things to complain about, into your life to complain about. Focus on things to be grateful for into your life to be grateful for. Number 18 Be prepared for the best laid plans to not go I wanted to develop a successful career in and then the financial crisis happened, Otherwise, I wouldn't be sitting here And my friend opened a new restaurant Shut everything down. Sometimes life doesn't go and it ends up being the best thing The harsh reality is that when you commit you will face However how you respond to them between giving up too early from the wisdom Which leads me nicely onto Number 19. Don't fear failure, fear regret. More often than not, success is born out of a series So when you avoid taking action you actually hurt your chances There is a beautiful Japanese you are losing everything, remember Yet they still stand tall, Number 20. The purpose of life is a life of purpose. You were not born into this world to just social media feeds, watch television, You were born with unique gifts adventure to discover what these are Don't go through life are going to be spent doing something that Live each day with intention rather than your days owning Knowing This is because you can't have For you can't change what you are Number 22. On the days where it feels like Just remember how far you have come. If you can't be grateful you will never have enough. Appreciate where you are in your journey, even if it is not where you want to be. For every season serves a purpose. Number 23. Stop filling your calendar with junk. If you want your life to change, Nothing more can be added that can often be filled just to please other people and activities the very things that will help you make Number 24. If you did the work you would have the results you will always end up in a better place Overthinking, on the other hand, opportunities. You don't have to have it all figured out The clarity you seek and the next piece of advice Number 25 get important tasks done early in the day Once these are done, you will have already Number 26. Have patience with the journey ahead you must be willing to look stupid and like a beginner for a long time Too many people ignore their dreams the idea So don't let impatience become the biggest hurdle to your growth. Sometimes it takes ten years that will completely change your life. Number 27 Act from your future, Let's fast forward to a year from now that it has ever been as a result What choices did you make today that made this reality Number 28. Level up your network. The fastest way in any area of your life is to design that makes it impossible not to succeed will also change as you grow. And this is all part It is why your new life will cost you It is part of your evolution and becoming as you move Not everyone is focused on being better and that's okay. Number 29. Commit to learning on a daily basis. There is this 100 hour rule which states that if you spend 100 hours a year in your chosen discipline (which is around you will be better than 95% of the world So what will you spend Number 30. You are the architect of your destiny. You are both the sculpture with your thoughts Your thoughts, to limitless achievement Number 31. Focus on making a difference, Your value is determined by how much more you have given to the world Add value to people's each day, however small, and watch your life Number 32. Unknown paths often When you surrender to the unknown, you So be open to new experiences, just because it is interesting and fun, that you will be excited Number 33. Spending money on things just to impress Instead, learn how to invest so you can grow your financial wealth over This way you are able to tap The eighth wonder of this world. Just look at Warren Buffett, one of the most successful investors 99% of his current wealth was created Number 34. Do stuff that makes you feel alive. Focus your energy on things and away This is key to fulfilling your potential. Number 35. You will have good seasons You can't control And this leads me to Number 36. Don't tie your emotional well-being that may or may not happen. Doing so will mean that you will end up and then die having never truly lived. And your present will be full of anxiety, Inner peace comes from accepting and focusing your energy Number 37. Listen to your heart. There is a reason why the longest journey are the inches from your head Too often and place too much importance many of whom have not succeeded in In fact... Number 38. Don't take advice from those who haven't Everyone has advice to share with you. Just make sure you are taking it and not sitting on the sidelines Number 39. Leadership begins with you. You cannot be if you are not powerfully leading yourself Lead yourself And very soon your life will transform And this begins with taking care for you can't give what you don't have. And finally, number 40, At some point you have to be honest about the gap and the life that your daily habits If your habits are causing that gap It is never too late to make changes between where you are now I hope you found this video useful. Choose a few to implement this week and see how simple adjustments to the way And make sure to keep this in mind. You will suck at most things consistency, persistence and patience, however, anything becomes possible. if you enjoyed this video, it would be amazing if you could subscribe, Thank you for watching this far