This is the only barn owl chick to hatch from a clutch of three, so when I was given a rescued chick. It was a perfect chance to let them grow up together, this is a story of Gylfie, Dryer Uno and Lucky. This year Gylfie and Dryer decided to nest in Ash stump and soon Gylfie reveals her first egg. Her second, and then her third. That night, whilst Gylfie is out Dryer takes the opportunity to inspect the eggs. But this is cut short, by a protective Gylfie and on the 28th of May Gylfie reveals a hatching chick. Barn owls incubate their eggs for around 33 days, but it's now 38 days since the first egg was laid. So it isn't looking promising for the remaining eggs. As the days go by, there's no sign of the other two hatching. And in a poignant moment Dryer looks down at Uno and the two eggs, as if questioning why there's only one chick. And as more days pass an UNO keeps growing, it looks like the remaining eggs are not viable. Although sad, it's nothing to worry about, this is common with barn owls. But what I am worried about, is that Uno is going to grow up But I get a call from Jean Thorpe founder of Ryedale Rehabilitation. She has a barn owl chick rescued from Wetherby whose four sibling sadly died due to lack of food and is in need of a new home. This is Lucky who looks to be around 3 weeks old and with Gylfie's strong maternal instincts in full force,she could be the perfect foster mother. A perfect foster sibling to Uno who's about 2 weeks old. So when Gylfie leaves that night, I waste no time in getting Lucky into the nest. Uno looks nervous at first laying down on the nest floor. But soon gets up and wanders closer to Lucky. And as siblings would Lucky starts preening Uno. Gylfie soon returns and after a brief moment of hesitation, comes into the nest. What I see next is beautiful, Gylfie and Lucky are greeting. Look he's settling in great and growing fast thanks to Dryer's efforts. With these two developing well and keeping each other warm, Gylfie no longer needs to spend time in the My cameras catch them mating to, they're preparing for a second brood. It's wonderful to see the bond between Uno and Lucky getting stronger and stronger. And with more space in a nest I can see Lucky's feathers coming through and unsurprisingly it isn't long before she's in the entrance. After a couple of feeds and some bouncing practice, Lucky fledges. Uno comes for a look, blocking Lucky's return. I know it won't be long before Uno fledges, so it's time to get her a BTO ring with a unique number to help monitor her over her lifetime. So Uno's 56 days old, I've got a ladder in place so I'm just going to go and get her out, to put a ring on her. Right I've got her in the bag so we'll quickly get a ring on her. Jean Thorpe is also a licensed bird ringer and has come to help out. Right then we've got another female, by the look of it. Look She's nearly ready to go, only just. She'll be out flying soon we have just got to watch these talons haven't we. Jean fits the chick with a lightweight metal ring, perfectly sized to fit for life and ensures the process doesn't harm the chicks. We'll see how much she weighs, she feels good, 360 good. Yeah it's a good weight, we'll get it back in the nest, good. Another one done, success, yeah well done. Alright, so that only took a few minutes the top priority is always getting it back into the nest, as soon as possible. This ring number and her weight, will be sent off to the BTO for them to store in their databases. Uno settles back in, these two owlets are reunited and are allopreening once again. That evening Lucky leaves the nest before a very tentative Uno takes a leap of faith and fledges for the first time. What a fantastic end to the story. But another story is just beginning Gylfie has laid another egg in Beech Stump. From Gylfie and Dryer's clutch of three eggs, Uno was the only one that hatched. I was worried about how she would cope without a sibling to keep her warm. But when rescued chick Lucky joined her both thrived and it was amazing to follow their story until they fledged. Taking to the skies here at Fotherdale. Thank you for watching and I hope you enjoyed the video. Don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to see more. Here's a taste of what you'll enjoy seeing on this channel.