Go ahead and kill him. Brothers, catch him. You must kill him. Chase him, hurry , hurry. Brothers, search carefully for me. Yes, he is not dead. Go toward the bathhouse. Quick, quick, quick. His grandma, I must kill him and leave. Go, go, go, go, go over there and see the sound of gunshots. Go upstairs. Go, chase me. Fight me away. Come on, okay, okay. Grandma is late again. Haima, I think we should leave the brothers here and continue the search. Let's withdraw here. This guy is not easy to mess with. If I don't leave, I don't believe that so many people can't kill him. Well, I won't accompany you. Go in as you wish. Come on , you are a coward . Brothers, come with me. He has a lot of things to hide . You won't come. What the hell, just come with me , idiot. Do you think I'm looking for him? Just the two of us are not enough for him to fill his teeth. I think it's safe to hide here from you. You're such a spoiled brat, Sister Du. Go and take a look, ah ah ah ah ah oh oh brother, you are looking for his direction, hurry up, hurry up, ah ah ah ah, brother is your own man, brother, retreat, everyone else is gone, why should we work hard here, bastard, do n't kill me He, I won't leave you two, stay here, the rest of you, please follow me, big brother, there is no one, are you a human, a ghost , a human, or a ghost ? Open all the doors and come to me. Why is there a bomb here? There must be others. Brother , why are you leaving ? Who is Chengtang? I don't know if you have seen it. The boss has left, so he left us behind. It is our fault to sacrifice our lives for him. You see, you don't have this idea today, but the king of hell, I only have one life to mess with. What is he doing ? Come on, hurry up, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, let's go to the bathhouse, brothers, hey, hey , hey , it 's you , it's me, you seem very proud , I should say ecstatic . Having seen people like you , even I now believe that I might be able to escape from the siege of the Communist army . But in the end, you fell into my hands. I feel honored to be able to kill you with my own hands. It was you who killed my subordinates . Team , hahaha, that's right . This is exactly what I have always wanted to do. When they died, they screamed very, very miserably . You have to pay the price for doing something wrong. This guy didn't see it. I only know that you will soon have to pay for your actions. Pay the price. Yuxian loves you. I can see that you love him too. Just for this one, you must die. Even if you are Zhen Chengtang, one day I will let you die in my hands. What should I do with someone like you ? It's not an exaggeration to call you a beast. You're actually irritating me. I 'm in a bad mood. I'll blow your head off at any time . Do you want to know how you're going to die ? Let me tell you. First, the gun in your hand was blown away. Then you will jump on your legs and kneel in front of my dead brothers. Then you will kowtow to them and take back what you just said. Finally, I will throw you into the water, just like you just described my brothers as a snake. The slaughtered pig screamed loudly . Hahahahaha. It scared me to death. I was so scared. Hahaha. You are about to die and you say such nonsense. Do you think I am a 3-year-old child ? Do you think I will believe these nonsense of yours ? Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhly It's what the boss means . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ''s meaning ''s voice ''s sound'' ''s''--''--------------- off-out-sounding, right) sounds sound like a pig being slaughtered. Their bodies were thrown into the water but they told me not to kill you. I really don't understand how you can say such things. Please don't kill me. Don't kill me. How can a person like you change ? Only dead brothers believe in me . Blood will not flow in vain. My love my love. What should we do now? Go back. Go back. Where are we going? Mansion No. 16. What are we going back to? What are the plans for today? Prepare. You are crazy. Your identity has been exposed. The plan no longer exists. Now you only have one life. Go back immediately. If I give up now, the blood of these comrades will be in vain. But what can I do if I don't give up? You have no chance. You still have the last glimmer of hope. Give it a try. But how can you make the enemy trust you again? I don't need it. Their trust As long as they feel scared Scared Let them be scared Let them be scared Just mention my name and tremble With fear That's our chance I don't understand You'll understand later Okay I won't ask runner I need your help Whatever you want No matter what you do , I will always be by your side, thank you. At this moment, Yan Shuangying's mind kept echoing the words of British Field Marshal Claudy. The best way to solve a problem is to kill the enemy. He decided to use the most ruthless means to deliver a fatal blow to the boss. The door was locked. Shhh, take out the register from the wall. Really my love. He can't run away. Search carefully. Now you believe my words. The killers followed you and found me. The foothold is to get rid of me while I am sleeping. This is his sincerity. This old fox is not that stupid to believe him. You are right . Are we too naive? Or do you know these people best? We should send them back to their hometowns. Brothers have fallen into a trap. Get out, get out, get out , where are they , where are they, come on, come on, help, help, help , scream, see if anyone will come and try to scare me away, but it's too late at night, please don't Don't kill me . Who asked you to kill me ? I can't say that you are quite humorous. Hey, hey, do n't worry, I won't hit your heart. I will let you die slowly, little by little. I feel it clearly. With every ounce of pain, I ask again who asked you to kill me. Don't fight anymore . It's Zhang Baozhi. Where does he live ? I don't know. Really, I really don't know. How does he contact you? He contacts you through the contact point. Where do you click ? Chunyi Mahjong Hall, No. 9, Willow Lane, Shunqiao, is very good. Thank you , ah, ah, ah, brothers, cheer up , hurry up, hurry up , come down, it's a shift change, what a fucking waste , brothers, the ladder is broken , jump down, no need. This job is really not for human beings. The boss doesn't even allow you to smoke in the house. He is afraid that your head will explode . It is said that Yan Shuangying is the number one sharp gun. As long as the cigarette butt lights up, it will crack open your head like this . You are talking nonsense to me. I don't believe this evil. Come on, hurry up. Brother Six, what's going on ? Did you hear any noise? It seemed like someone shouted just now. You heard it too. Take three people to check it out and report back immediately so that you can take away a pack of cigarettes. It's time. Something must have happened. Brothers, come with me. Be honest . Brother, why are you up so early ? There's no movement. Don't worry, brother. There are so many brothers in the village. If there was any situation, the gun would have gone off. I think there is a 80% chance that this guy is not. If you dare to come, if you don't dare to come, I will find him, this bastard, and I will rip out his heart and drink his blood. He is here. Ercun told Erchun and Fang to get ready . It will be decided today. He will be hit and dead. Go and tell the master , let's do this boy. Is there a reward this time? Let's go. What's going on with this grandma ? Brother, look, that's the third master who brought me down . Brothers, be careful . Brothers, Yan Shuangying is dead . Mom, I squatted all night, but Wu Laosi and the others got an advantage. Damn, I wish I had known it was so easy. I also guarded the entrance of the village. I just said that Yan Shuangying was like a god, but it was just a matter of two seconds . Why don't we brothers find him and cut him open? There's so much glory. Now it's useless to talk about it. Hurry back. Brothers, Yan Shuangying is dead. Hurry up and get the reward from the boss. Look at Wu Laosi. He's proud of him. The reward for Mr. Wu cannot be yours alone, but it should be shared equally among all of us. What's more, if there is mine, then there is yours. He is not Mr. Wu . Yan Shuangying is not dead. Yan Shuangying is not dead . Boss, this kid let us Fourth Master. The gun was knocked down, hahaha. What a half-man, half-ghost . The number one sharpshooter is me. I told you earlier that they were bluffing, why didn't I let them Bai Luoshang do it ? Hahaha, boss, if you hadn't come in person, it would have been just a few of us. If you want to kill Yan Shuangying, there is no way to kill him , hahahaha, how powerful we are , hahaha, brothers, good job , old horse , I will give you a lot of rewards , hahaha, brothers, Yan Shuangying is dead, the elder brother seems to be Wu Laosi, well done. He's not Wu Laosi, he's Yan Shuangying. This bastard flew up to the sky to look for me. I don't believe he can go to heaven and earth . Haha, brothers, capture Yan Shuangying alive and enjoy the smoke. Go out and put down the gun. Otherwise, I'll kill them if they see it. There are still a lot of bastards in there. Put down the gun. How about hurrying up ? In the end, you fell into my hands. Bastard, I want to rip out your heart. I don't understand why you didn't come to Dalian to threaten me instead of arresting these innocent folks . Haha. You said that little bitch, why didn't you know he was dead? He jumped off the cliff and fell to his death. It was just as I expected . When Shen Qiqi killed Ma Kui, I thought about it. Well, what did you say Shen Qiqi killed? Ma Kui , why don't you understand that your coming here was all arranged by Shen Qiqi? Why did he do this? Because he wanted me to kill you and become the boss of Bailuoshan. You are an idiot . No matter what. He said that I would kill you first and then that bastard Shen Qiqi, because he is at least much easier to deal with than you. You killed my brother, but don't worry , I will never let you die so happily. I will use everything I have. Is it fair enough that the criminal law makes you die in agony ? Well, what are you laughing at ? People who kill people in the Black Gobi will not die , nor will bad people die . There is only one kind of person who must die. Do you want to know? Oh, I want to think clearly, stupid person . I still don't understand my situation. Remember what I once said, I will let you see my brain. I really want to see my brain. How do you want me to see it? You made the biggest mistake . Until now, my hands are on my hands . Run, run , run, run. I didn't expect you to be as stupid as your brother. I will definitely do what I said . I said I will make it happen. Have you seen your own brain? Did you say that? Why do you like hurting innocent people? How can I make you change? There is no other way . There is no other way. Only death . Only death like this is truly embarrassing. Why don't you tell me? Lian is dead. If I tell you, will you still come? Although I know this is your plan , I will still come . Why? Because I must kill Ma Dapao. That is also my plan. It seems that you already knew that Dalian was dead. Yes, I still have a glimmer of hope , but now I have no scruples. In fact, this is an opportunity to kill someone with a knife. I will use your hand to get rid of Ma Dapao, and then I will kill you to avenge this idiot . Then I will be the hero of the copycat. Everything is up to me. Master , Dalian is just a kid. He doesn't need to die. But after he died, Uncle Ying died too. Now you are going to die too , right? Why don't you believe me? I only believe in myself. This is simply a massacre. You are too terrible. Kill 70 There are so many people. I never thought I could kill them all. They deserve to die and you deserve to die too. But you are still honest about this. You are better than them. It seems that I have to deal with you as soon as possible. Say goodbye to me. Put down the gun. You are here too. I know you. I 'm not hurt. I 'm doing what you told me. I'm not blaming you, but you can't kill him. Why not? Although I need your help , if you insist on doing this, I can only sacrifice you because Yan Shuangying is me. The most important person in your life, why are all women so nice to you? Because I am a good person. Commissioner, there is one thing I want to tell you. I must kill him. Even if I die in your hands, why does everyone feel able to? Kill me hum I'm not a horse or a cannon I can indeed kill in this case Do you want to see something? Something very important to you if you will I slowly raise my hands I don't have a gun on me you see What do you want me to see? Thank you. Do you know why you lost again? Don't say so much. Just kill me. I will not kill someone without a weapon , even if he is my biggest enemy. You lost because you always believed in the trajectory . If you don't believe in yourself, just go and be your village leader. Thank you , but I will still kill you. Me too. You have been looking for me, right ? I want to tell you that this is Shen Qiqi's trick. I have known it for a long time. From Shen Qi I knew it the moment Ma Kui was killed. Why did you come again ? I still had a glimmer of hope. But now the people who love and care for me are dead. What else can I do ? I can't save them. I love you too. I believe in investing. We are enemies. I don't want to be your enemy. Neither do I. But we are indeed enemies. I know you didn't kill Shen Qiqi because of me. He can't run away. One day, he will die in my hands . Where are you going? I just said I thought of something I had never thought of before. I can kill bandits but I can't protect good people. Like Hideki and Dalian, they died for me. So if I want to be a bandit killer, it's not enough on my own . Maybe I You should find some people who are like me and you dance with me. Breeze . Hey, third brother, look at how we can lie down alone. Come over and take a look. Hey, hey , hey, she is a big girl. Take her back and let the brothers have fun too. Oh, okay, come on , come on, hey, hey, hold on, hold on, be careful, the shopkeeper, the shopkeeper , the shopkeeper , the second boss. Today, when Xiaoliuzi and I went back to the mountain to deliver the letter, we found it on the bank of the river. We found a big girl who fainted, so we brought him back. Do you think you can reward him to the brothers? This big girl looks like a sign of where the person is. Now he has woken up and went to take a look. Well , the head of the family That's him . Hum, the girl is quite pretty. Well, old Ding, what do you think you should do ? Then give it to the brothers. Thank you for who you are . We are all good people. You will know later. Hahaha. Have fun. Hahaha. Wait. What are you waiting for ? No one is allowed to touch this woman. Don't be afraid. I won't harm you. What are you going to do ? What's your name ? My name is Fang Xiaolian. Where do you live ? Who else is there? My parents are dead. I'm the only one left. Now I am. I'll give you two options. The first one is to hand you over to the brothers. When they have enough fun, they will sell you to a brothel to become a prostitute. Don't you want the second option? The second option is to be my confidant and your relative. I am Du Qi, the second boss of Laodao Bazi Village. I need a relative to place him beside him and report his news to me at any time. You want me to be a spy. I'm so smart. I'm waiting for your answer . If I follow you, can you guarantee that I won't do it? Are you being bullied again? Huh, you are my confidant. Who dares to bully you? I want a gun, no problem . I promise to be happy. As long as you fuck me well , I will never treat you badly. But if you dare to betray me, I will make you unable to survive. Can't die