COLIN BILLINGS: We that's actually much smaller. So it's 27% smaller than and much, much lighter. The lightest noise canceling when it comes to And that was all that if we understand across the population, that both is very comfortable, that you're looking for. SPEAKER: Welcome to podcast, where we meet the products you love. Here's your host, Rachid Finge. RACHID FINGE: to Colin Billings, manager on the all-new Find out how the team removed with the best earbuds yet. SPEAKER: This is the RACHID FINGE: Colin, was responsible for Pixel Buds Pro, one of the most when they came How do you make sure don't get complacent when COLIN BILLINGS: Well, I think We learn a lot with every And so very quickly, you where improvements can be made. I think the other thing that's is that buds are approaching Historically, they've been like noise cancelation And I think those things will But because people we're really excited buds can be helpful for you sound capabilities. So this year, we'll see Pixel with Gemini built in. And I think that's the beginning RACHID FINGE: And we'll get into You're a senior product manager. Joined about a year ago. Now, what I remember is that it can take to truly get to know Google How has that been COLIN BILLINGS: It's been Prior to Google, in early-stage startups. Very interestingly, I at Stitcher, which was one of So talking to you is from previous lifetimes. One of the things that struck me was just the talent around Google, matched with meaningful or good. That's really been Learning to navigate in has taken a little bit of time. But working with people has been very helpful RACHID FINGE: So that brings Pixel Buds Pro 2. There are so many new things. And I'd love to talk about them. Maybe let's just start Was there some sort you wanted to achieve COLIN BILLINGS: The you'll see underneath a lot of Pro 2 is the desire to remove Compromise has been just and decisions in earbuds. Do I want to use And I have to buy something and has a clip for my ear. Do I want to have something And so then I buy really big because it and it has bad battery life? Do I want to wear something that things, but then is very for long periods of time? And so I think how do we address these to getting the benefits out So that's where we started. And it was very clear that is how comfortable it and how you could wear them RACHID FINGE: We're and also a secure fit, which was some sort of a compromise. Either it's very secure, doesn't feel nice find something but maybe it falls So if you're saying those compromises, achieve that when it comes COLIN BILLINGS: Your outline of I mean, I used to own One for working couldn't wear all throughout hurt my ears. And then I had another pair And so focusing on comfort, we did a completely I say ears up started by taking real ear Ended up with over points that we then to apply some modern One of the more unique things is that we actually to take all of those into essentially a us to understand how comfortable and secure earbud. So we ended up with an earbud So it's 27% smaller than our much later. The latest noise on the market, when it comes And that was all that if we understand across the population, that both is very comfortable, that you're looking for. And so one other aspect to fit stabilizer We took two generations ago There was a longer that many people really loved. It made it more secure. The other half of find that this lent worn for long periods of time and it hurt. And so now with have a stabilizer that as gets more or less secure. So when I'm getting on my bike, in Mountain View, I'll just So they're a little bit more And if I'm sitting, I can and get a little bit RACHID FINGE: So you nailed Now, let's talk So a weird question is, how important when you're also talking might be wearing important to have the You were talking about while your hands are full. So there's a whole other set of So where does sound quality COLIN BILLINGS: sound quality, is the most important quality So we knew that we So even by making and making it easier and more we didn't want to And so our ability to break is really attributable that we as Google have outside of the phones. And that's what the is the first tensor built for audio processing. So this chip allows us to We can talk a little but exceptional And we do this all with Our goal with your sound was to pass your music as to your ear as we possibly can. And in order to do this, we from the ground which is very uncommon. That meant we had an tailored specifically we have a speaker and as well as this tensor Now, the architecture is specifically designed for And that's because it has what's which means that your audio, listening to in this doesn't actually share a cancelation. And so noise to your environment at 3 to give you that quiet Most buds will do those which means that the audio has to share time with noise it's not going to be as clean. In Pixel Buds Pro 2, we which means your audio without any manipulation. And is going to be the most you can get. RACHID FINGE: All right. So you mentioned multipath. You mentioned noise cancelation. Checking my environment a second sounds Why did it need to be 3 million? COLIN BILLINGS: Well, now after sound quality is the earbuds like Pixel Buds Pro. And it's also just this to be able to filter when you want to focus or going to China, how that peace and quiet of myself. Doing that also requires that you don't the occlusion effect, which is building up in your ear. All of this just requires And the faster you do it, 3 million times per second but I'd love to see more. RACHID FINGE: I'm wondering, first generation, I think people Is that a factor in how you Do you want it to have some signature compared to Is that anything you COLIN BILLINGS: We I do also think that the broader is to make sure that we reputation for audio quality. And I think elevating doing the same thing doing and trying to compete What we're doing is a more unique perspective to the And to unpack that a little bit use a tuning. And tuning is how in your ear that's based on And the Harman curve has and probably won't Because it might We've decided to move away from we realized that more out-of-the-box, prefer a more And so this means that, for you might think of some of are known for having really Well, actually, apply that to things like you start to actually in people's preferences there. And people end up So our goal was to have an sounded really good to as the most number of genres. And that's really setting the which is the next personalization is where you get the most user And so when you already do that that allows you to change the to your music or podcasts as expect that to become in terms of personalization RACHID FINGE: And then we get and you need to get things done, 2 in your ears. We are in the Gemini that Gemini is a big So first of all, how do you to a set of buds? COLIN BILLINGS: So thinking about how Gemini in these on-the-go moments. And so that really means We ask ourselves, can you do without ever What are the blockers that allow to do without ever taking it and doing what have to do it on a Gemini for example? That problem and gets nowhere without with the builders of Gemini. So we started out very early relationship between the groups. Understanding and communicating And then starting to And so today, at launch you will have the first And it has a number that make that hands-free So the first one is just The other thing is that Gemini Live, which is and interaction also is available on buds So you'll be able to start and then say Let's chat. And you'll convert to with Gemini, where you can And so instead of the and I get a question have a conversation feels almost like your you to say, hey, G over and to the next question. It's really-- if you you'll see it a lot soon. But it's pretty interesting. More often, my hey, to get an answer to a question, tend to veer off in all I've been trying to find ways a little bit more independent And we just had one morning for 30 minutes. And so I think it's just an we are in this new with things that are coming and Gemini. RACHID FINGE: So tell me I imagine, if you'd maybe five years ago, you'd you listen to the sound listen to how a teammate and maybe you listen the next Now, suddenly you're helpful is the product. And does it deliver on this So could you give maybe during development, Maybe the first time This is actually that, maybe, a few years ago, Are there any standout COLIN BILLINGS: Yeah. So we, like many use dogfooding as a primary feedback about our products. It's an immensely valuable And so getting these products into dog food has been always where you're going working, where you didn't think about, And I think we're learning. And I think reacting to how conversations with Gemini to be truly hands-free. So when it's like and then I get an that puts a lot of if there's sort of a follow-up related to reformulate Think about just like even how there's related have lots of different based on what we think we here's other things that are Gemini Live is, I think, a Saying that the to really like elongate deliver more information. Not necessarily I think there will be use cases people-- how do I talk to my spouse What should I be thinking These types of things are So I think we're very quickly not only about productivity but a very wide set of RACHID FINGE: So did you as you mentioned, and dogfooding a lot in this podcast. So I'm assuming most listeners Did you get any feedback like a story from one of the dog And having that conversation where we're like, wow. It's incredible to be COLIN BILLINGS: The and how people are as a sounding board for things like personal or emotional Because I think that personally, always felt drawn to make the human And in many cases, of how technology makes the It separates us. It makes us less close to You can go on and on And well, Gemini is not a human. But if a conversation leads to me to being a feeling to a friend or to like how to actually to maybe a healthier think these are powerful And I think we that there's a set of people-- and I think it's more than feel more enabled to have those feels less risky. And maybe with risky to have those And so when I hear those stories these types of outcomes it's pretty inspiring like there's a clear taking positive benefit from the RACHID FINGE: I'm to be part of a product you joined just a year ago. COLIN BILLINGS: I of the reasons why I joined Was this belief that if we could or whoever was doing the that we would have a Because it was very clear, that whether it was that the conversational chat to something, at least with these new AI technologies, It seemed natural that The other thing, I was when it came out. I was like, this is I can talk to everything. But then the reality was And the reality was to natural language had to learn how to say to get that response And that existed across all And even Google Assistant So one of the promises is that I can say it how I to understand, get the agent And so I think we've but one big step function RACHID FINGE: down the street, maybe not from home, and let's say you Buds Pro 2, and maybe to their favorite music. What does that feel like seeing worked on so hard? COLIN BILLINGS: It's an immense and gratefulness. I think millions of people And that's something that is in the world that have And so for me, that experience And so I'm really But realizing them exist in the that I scratch being And so it will be We're on the beginning but it will be immensely to have touched people's lives. RACHID FINGE: Colin, thank to Made by Google to have you back next season. COLIN BILLINGS: Thank SPEAKER: Thank you for listening Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now wherever to be the first to listen.