Waiting on God, Updated, Annotated Written by Andrew Murray Wait Thou Only upon God - Psalm 62:5 KJV for Him. - Isaiah 64:4 Wait only upon God; my soul, be still, Thou fain wouldst follow Him throughout this Thou fain with listening heart His voice wouldst Thou fain wouldst be a passive instrument Upon His service sweet - then be thou still, His heart's desire. Oh, hinder not His hand, Be silent unto God, and thou shall know On those who wait on Him; so shalt thou bear where Shall show His love, and sound His glorious And He will work with hand unfettered, free First on thee must that hand of power be turned, burned, So frail and empty, yet, since He hath poured Henceforth through thee the power of God shall And He will work for thee. Stand still and see So silent, yet so irresistible, Oh, question not henceforth what thou canst Thou canst do nought. But He will carry through Where all thy best endeavours had availed Then, my soul, wait and be still; If thou wilt take no less, His best shall Thy portion now and through eternity. - Freda Hanbury Excerpt from Address in Exeter Hall I have been surprised at nothing more than and others from all parts of the world. These devoted men and women testify to the a clearer insight into all that Christ could Let us look to God to reveal Himself among Let us expect great things of our God. Too little time is given to waiting on God Isn't He willing to make things right in His Has the life of God's people reached the utmost Surely not. We want to wait on Him and put away our experiences, of truth, however sound and scriptural we suitable they appear. We want to give God time and place to show God has new developments and new resources. He can do new things, unheard-of things, and Let us enlarge our hearts and not limit Him. Scripture: As thou didst come down when thou that the mountains flowed down at Thy presence Andrew Murray Preface year, I had been impressed by the thought public, we need more of God. I had felt that we needed to train our people cultivation of a deeper sense of His presence, on Him a more definite aim of our ministry. At a welcome breakfast in Exeter Hall, I expressed work. I have already said that I was surprised at I saw that God's Spirit had been working the The experiences of the past year, both personal It is as if I am only beginning to see the to Him center in this waiting on God. I see how very little in our life and work The following pages are the outcome of my of all God's people to the one great remedy More than half of these pieces were written of being somewhat crude and hasty. In looking them over, I have felt that I should But this I cannot now do, so I send them out feeble may give His blessing with them. I do not know if it will be possible for me things we need to learn. In a note about William Law at the close of But what I want to say here is this: the great God. The answer to every complaint of feebleness or convention seeking instruction on holiness, you not have God?&quot; If you really believe in God, He will make God is willing and able by His Holy Spirit. Cease from expecting the least good from yourself man and just yield yourself unreservedly to How simple this looks! And yet we know so little of this gospel. I feel ashamed as I send these defective meditations; and of our God. May He use them to draw us all to Himself blessed art of waiting only upon God. If only we could get the right perception not in thought or imagination or effort but upon God. With my greeting in Christ to all God's saints to those I have not met, I subscribe myself Andrew Murray First Day Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh - Psalm 62:1 KJV entirely His work, as our creation was, it to wait on Him to do the work that pleases Waiting becomes the only way to fully experience God of our salvation. All the difficulties that keep us back from cause in this one thing: the defective knowledge All that the church and its members need for in the world is the return to our true place, and redemption, the place of absolute and Let us strive to see what the elements are waiting upon God. It may help us to discover the reasons why infinitely desirable it is that the church, the blessed secret of waiting. The deep need for this waiting on God lies God. As Creator, God formed man to be a vessel goodness. Man was not to have a fountain of life in The ever-living One was the Communicator to Man's glory and blessedness was not to be dependent on a God of such infinite riches Man was to have the joy of receiving out of This was his blessedness as an unfallen creature. When man fell from God, he became more dependent There was no hope of his recovery from his His mercy. God alone began the work of redemption; God in each individual believer. Scripture: We ourselves groan within ourselves, the redemption of our body (Romans 8:23). Even in the regenerate man, there is no power He has and can have nothing that he does not and must be just as continuous and unbroken life. Because Christians do not understand their and helplessness, they have no sense of the or the unspeakable blessedness of continual But when a believer begins to see it and consent moment by the Holy Spirit. Then, waiting on God becomes his brightest Scripture: Being confident of this very thing, perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ (Philippians As man understands how God, as God, as Infinite His child as fully as He can, and how God and strength, he wonders why he ever doubted day. This God unceasingly gives and works; His is the blessed life. Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from Him cometh First we wait on God for salvation. Then we learn that salvation is what brings Then we find what is better - that waiting It ascribes to Him the glory of being All; us. May God teach us the blessedness of waiting My soul, wait thou only upon God! Second Day I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD. - Genesis 49:18 KJV with these words that he uttered in the midst sons. But they do certainly indicate that his expectation God's salvation was what he waited for - a could work out. Jacob knew he and his sons were under God's Jehovah the everlasting God would show what them. The words point to that wonderful history to the glorious future in eternity wherever They suggest to us how there is no salvation for that, whether for our personal experience duty and our true blessedness. Let us think of ourselves with that glorious Think of Him now purposing to work out and Let us meditate until we realize that all moment to moment, must be the work of God Think of Paul's statement that God would make mystery in the Gentiles, which is Christ in every man and teaching in all wisdom that Jesus, in which I continue to labour, contending in me mightily (Colossians 1:27-29). God cannot part with His grace, goodness, us, as He gives the raindrops from heaven. No, He can only give it, and we can only enjoy And the only reason that He does not work we do not let Him. We hinder Him either by our indifference or would like to do. What He asks of us in the way of surrender, in this one word: waiting - waiting on Him It combines the deep sense of our entire helplessness confidence that our God will work it all in Again, I say, let us meditate on the divine work out in us until we know the truths it Our heart is the scene of a divine operation We can do as little towards the work as towards us to will and to do. God only asks us to yield, to consent, and Let us meditate and be still, until we see God alone does all. Scripture: Be still, and know that I am God; be exalted in the earth (Psalm 46:10). Our soul will sink down in deep humility to And the deep, blessed background of all our waiteth upon God. The application of the truth to wider circles for, to the church of Christ around us or There can be no good except when God works; with faith in His working and to pray for wisdom. Oh, for the eyes of our heart to be opened to see how blessed it is to worship and to Our private and public prayers are our chief is chiefly in them that our waiting upon God If our waiting begins by quieting the activities will see the salvation of God. If while waiting we bow and seek to see God ready to work all good, we will be strengthened. If our waiting yields itself to Him in the in us, we will have hope. If it maintains the place of humility and has quickened the faith that He will perfect and the joy of the soul, for the joy of the Life will become one deep, blessed cry: I My soul, wait thou only upon God! Third Day These wait all upon thee, that thou may give Thou givest unto them, they gather; thou openest - Psalm 104:27-28 of the birds and the beasts of the forest, and of the great sea, wherein innumerable It sums up the relationship of all creation dependence upon Him in the one statement: Just as much as it was God's work to create, As implausible as the idea is that the creature it is left to provide for itself. The whole creation is ruled by the one unalterable The statement is the simple expression that brought into existence, the very groundwork The one reason that God gave life to creatures wisdom, power, and goodness - that in His forth unto them the riches of His goodness And just as the purpose and nature of God desire in the creature, so the purpose and - to receive from Him what He alone can give If we are to comprehend what waiting on God and to experience its blessedness, we must of the call that comes to us. We shall understand how our duty is no arbitrary We shall see how it is not only rendered necessary our restoration to our original destiny and glory as creatures blessedly dependent on When our eyes are opened to this precious will remind us of the relationship that was grace. As we read this psalm and learn to look upon by God Himself, waiting on God will be realized As we think of the young lions and the ravens and every insect waiting on Him until He gives that it is the very nature and glory of God Every thought of what nature is and what God thou only upon God. These wait all upon thee, that thou may give. God is the One who gives all; let this faith Before we fully understand all that is implied even been able to cultivate the habit, let Waiting on God, unceasing and entire dependence and earth, the one unalterable and all-comprehensive ever-blessed One in whom we live. Let us resolve at once that it shall be the - a continual, humble, truthful waiting upon We may rest assured that He who made us for will never disappoint us. In waiting on Him, we shall find rest and My soul, wait thou only upon God! Fourth Day The LORD upholds all that fall and raises The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest - Psalm 145:14-15 words, These wait all upon thee, were used But in Psalm 145 we have a psalm of the kingdom, to point specifically to the needs of God's What the universe and the animal creation intelligently and voluntarily. Man is to be the interpreter of nature; he or more blessed in the exercise of our free If an army has been sent to march into an it is not advancing, at once the question The answer will very often be, &quot;Waiting for No stores of provisions, clothing, or ammunition not proceed. It is no different in the Christian life; from above, and there is nothing so necessary on God and confidence in Him, which refuses and strength. If the question is asked whether this is different that there may be much praying but very little In praying, we are often occupied with ourselves, In waiting upon God, the first thought is We enter His presence and feel we just need us with Himself. God longs to reveal Himself and to fill us Waiting on God gives Him time to come to us It is at the time of prayer that we ought Before you pray, bow quietly before God to is, and how certainly He can and will help. Be still before Him, and allow His Holy Spirit disposition of absolute dependence and confident Wait upon God as a living Being, the living with His salvation. Wait on God until you know you have met Him; And when you are praying, let there be intervals which you yield yourself to God in case He Waiting on Him will become the most blessed will be doubly precious as the fruit of such God has so ordained it in harmony with His Him would be the honor we give Him. Let us bring Him the service gladly and truthfully; The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest Dear soul, God provides in nature for the He provide in grace for those He has redeemed! Learn to say of every desire, every failure, too little upon God, or He would have given And then say: Fifth Day Show me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths. Cause me to walk in thy truth and teach me: I have waited for thee all the day. - Psalm 25:4-5 an enemy's territories. The answer to the question as to the cause The answer might also have been, &quot;Waiting If the last dispatch had not been received the army would not dare to move. So it is in the Christian life: as necessary the need for waiting for instructions. See how beautiful this comes out in Psalm ashamed, let not my enemies triumph over me. The writer knew and loved God's law exceedingly, But he knew that this was not enough. He knew that for the right spiritual comprehension of it to his own peculiar circumstances, he This psalm has at all times been a very peculiar the felt need of the divine teaching and the be given. Study the psalm until your heart is filled and the absolute certainty of divine guidance. These thoughts show how he can say, I have Waiting for guidance and waiting for instruction upon God. The Father in heaven is so interested in His will and His love at every step that He is He knows that we are unable to do what is us, so His very demands become promises of us all the day. Not only in special difficulties and times of everyday life, we may count upon Him to What is needed in us to receive this guidance? One thing: waiting for instructions, waiting I have waited for thee all the day. In our times of prayer we want to give clear in His help. We want to become conscious of our ignorance divine light shining within us, if our way and more unto the perfect day. And we want to wait quietly before God in us; it will be given - the meek he will teach I have waited for thee all the day. The special surrender to the divine guidance and be followed up by the habitual looking As simple as it is for one who has eyes to so simple and delightful it can become to all the day in the enjoyment of God's light What is needed to help us to such a life is of God as the only source of wisdom and goodness, we can possibly require. Yes, our need is the one thing. If we could see our God in His love, and if our life, and to work all in us, then this the natural and spontaneous response of our My soul, wait thou only upon God! Sixth Day Yea, none that wait on thee shall be ashamed. - Psalm 25:3 himself and think of the great company of all waiting on Him with us. And let us all join in the fervent prayer shall be ashamed. Just think for a moment of the waiting multitude and lonely to whom it seems their prayers their hope will be put to shame. Then think of how many servants of God - ministers hopes in their work have been disappointed remain unsatisfied. How many have heard of a life of rest and of strength and victory, but cannot find the With all these, they have not yet learned They only need what we all need - the living vain. Remember all who are in danger of fainting none that wait on thee shall be ashamed. If this intercession for all who wait on God we will bear each other's burdens and so fulfill That element of unselfishness and love, which most complete communion with God, will be Love of the brethren and love of God are inseparably In God, the love of His Son and of us are me may be in them (John 17:26). In Christ, the love of the Father for Him has loved me, so I have loved you (John 15:9). In us, He asks that His love for us be ours as I have loved you (John 15:12). All the love of God and of Christ are inseparably And how can we prove and cultivate this love Christ did not seek to enjoy the Father's All true seeking after God and His love for and the love of our brethren in prayer for Yea, none that wait on thee shall be ashamed. Twice in the twenty-fifth psalm David speaks he thinks of all who wait on Him. May this message go to all God's tried and than they know. Let it stir them and us in our waiting to to say to the Father, The eyes of all wait in due season (Psalm 145:15). Let it inspire us all with new courage, for faint and be weary? Yea, none that wait on thee shall be ashamed None that wait on thee shall be ashamed! From many witnesses the cry comes to everyone one: Wait for the LORD: be of good courage, I say, for the LORD (Psalm 27:14). Be of good courage and strengthen your hearts, Blessed Father, we humbly beseech Thee, let one. Some are weary, and the time of waiting appears And some are feeble and scarcely know how And some are so entangled in the effort of they can find no time to wait continually. Father, teach us all how to wait. Teach us to think of each other and pray for Teach us to think of Thee, the God of all Father, let none that wait on Thee be ashamed. For Jesus' sake. Amen. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Seventh Day Integrity and uprightness shall preserve me, - Psalm 25:21 the word wait. As before in verse 5, I have waited for thee to God to remember that he is waiting for It is a great thing for a soul not only to a consciousness that its whole spirit and Then in childlike confidence it can say, &quot;Lord, It will prove a mighty plea in prayer and to claim the promise that none that wait on The prayer in connection with the plea that in the spiritual life. If we draw near to God, it must be with a There must be perfect integrity and wholeheartedness next psalm, Judge me, O LORD, for I have walked in my integrity (Psalm 26:1, 11). There must be perfect uprightness or single-heartedness . . . thy righteousness to the upright in The soul must know that it allows nothing the Holy One and receive His full blessing; given up to His will. The whole spirit that animates us in the waiting - You see that I desire to come so to You; and uprightness perfectly in me; let them 25:21). With our first attempt to live life completely how much that perfect integrity is lacking. This will just be one of the blessings that A soul cannot seek close fellowship with God on Him all the day without an honest and entire For I have waited for thee. These words not only refer to the prayer of To use them often will be a great blessing Let us therefore study the words until we It must be clear to us what we are waiting There may be very different things. It may mean waiting for God in our times of us the sense of His holy presence and nearness. It may be a special petition to which we are We might be waiting for our whole inner life Our eyes may be looking for God's hand in some part of His work. It is good that we sometimes recognize what as we say to each of them, I have waited for answer, for I have waited for thee all the It must also be clear to us on whom we are We do not wait on an idol, a god that we have He is. No, we wait on the living God, such as He holiness, His power, wisdom, and goodness, The presence of a beloved or a dreaded master who waits on him. It is the presence of God, as He makes Himself the soul under its covering and shadow that spirit. Let us be still, and wait, and worship until waited for thee. Let it be very clear that we are waiting. Let that become so much our consciousness have waited all the day; I have waited for This will indeed imply sacrifice and separation, joy. This waiting on God has hardly been acknowledged And yet, if it is true that God alone is goodness is in having as much of God as we can, and a life of continual abiding in His presence than to be always breathing this blessed atmosphere, My soul, wait thou only on God! Eighth Day Wait for the LORD; be strong, and let your - Psalm 27:14 RSV unless I had believed to see the goodness 27:13). If it had not been for his faith in God, his But in the confident assurance in God that one thing above all - to wait upon God. Wait for the LORD; be strong, and let your One of the chief needs in our waiting upon and blessing, is a quiet, confident persuasion that God will hear and help. We are waiting on a God who could never disappoint Be strong and of a good courage (Joshua 1:9). These words are frequently found in connection in the prospect of combat with the power of of all human strength. Is waiting on God a work so difficult that your heart take courage? Yes, indeed. The deliverance for which we often wait is The blessings for which we plead are spiritual heavenly, supernatural, divine realities. Our heart may well faint and fail. Our souls are so seldom accustomed to fellowship often appears to hide Himself. We who have to wait are often tempted to fear is too weak, that our desire is not as righteous is not complete. Amid all these causes of fear or doubt, how for the LORD; be strong, and let your heart Let nothing in heaven, on earth, or in hell God in full assurance, so your waiting is The one lesson our text teaches us is this: resolve that we will wait with the most confident We should make up our minds to do this, for unexpected blessing that waiting on God will We are accustomed to judge God and His work Therefore, there is the great probability we will be discouraged, because we do not The message that comes to us is this: above do so in the spirit of abounding hopefulness. It is God in His glory, in His power, and to bless us. If you say that you are afraid of deceiving see or feel any reason in your present state that God is the One who provides the justification Oh, do learn the lesson. You are not going to wait on yourself to see You are going to wait on God, to know first The whole duty and blessedness of waiting blessed Being, full to overflowing of goodness wretched, cannot for any time come into contact silently entering into us and blessing us. God is Love! That is the one and all-sufficient reason Love seeks out its own: God's love is His to His children. Come, and however weak you feel, wait in His As a weak, sickly invalid is brought out into him, come with all that is dark and cold in love, and sit and wait there with the one love. As the sun does its work in the weak one who Oh, trust Him completely. Wait for the LORD; be strong, and let your My soul, wait thou only upon God! Ninth Day Be strong, and let your heart take courage, - Psalm 31:24 RSV meditation. But I gladly return to them to press home learn what waiting for God is. The lesson is this: It is with the heart that Let your heart take courage. All our waiting depends upon the state of As a man's heart is, so is he before God. We can advance no further or deeper into the is prepared for by the Holy Spirit. The message is, Let your heart take courage, The truth appears so simple: some may ask, And where is the need for insisting on it It is because many Christians have no sense of the mind and the religion of the heart, than the latter. They don't know how infinitely greater the This is one of the chief reasons for the feebleness can we wait on God to bring its full blessing. A text in Proverbs may help us to comprehend Speaking of a life in the fear and favor of all thine heart and lean not unto thine own In all religion, we have to use these two The mind must gather knowledge from God's the inner life can be nourished. But here is a terrible danger: leaning on comprehension of divine things. People imagine that if they are occupied with automatically. But this is by no means the case. The understanding deals with concepts and the real life of the soul. Hence the command: Trust in the LORD with understanding. It is with the heart that man believes and It is in the heart that God has given His in us. In our religion, it is the heart that must My mind is not able to create or maintain wait for God to work in me. Even in the physical life this is so. My reason may tell me what to eat and drink But in the eating, my reason can do nothing; Reason may tell me what God's Word says, but Bread of Life; the heart alone can do this A man may study the nature and effects of he sets aside his thoughts and study, and Even so, when the Christian has studied or and put no trust in them; he must waken his living fellowship with Him. This is the blessedness of waiting upon God: and efforts and bow my heart before Him in strengthen His work in me. And this is the lesson of our text: Let your LORD. Remember the difference between knowing with Beware of the temptation to lean on your own They only help you to know what the heart Your thoughts are only images and shadows. Let your heart take courage, all you who wait Present it before Him as that wonderful part Himself and by which you can know Him. Cultivate the greatest confidence that God Let your heart wait at times in perfect silence work. Be sure of this, and just wait on Him. Continually give your whole heart with its He wants the heart and takes it, and as He take courage, all you who wait for the LORD. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Tenth Day Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon those mercy to deliver their souls from death and Our soul waited for the LORD; he is our help Therefore our heart shall rejoice in him because Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according - Psalm 33:18-22 upon Him. As we wait upon God, our eye looks up to Him This is the blessedness of waiting upon God. It takes our eyes and thoughts away from ourselves, with our God. We worship Him in His glory and love, with He may supply our every need. Let us consider this wonderful meeting between taught about those on whom God's eye rests The eye of the LORD is upon those that fear Fear and the hope of waiting are generally In the presence and worship of God, they are harmony. This is because all apparent contradictions Righteousness and peace, judgment and mercy, gentleness, a majesty that is exalted above meet and kiss each other. Indeed, a fear exists that has torment and But there is a fear that is found in the very In the song of Moses and the Lamb they sing: and magnify thy name? (Revelation 15:4). And a voice came out of the throne, saying, fear him (Revelation 19:5). Let us in our waiting ever seek to fear this 28:58). The lower we bow before His holiness in holy humble self-abasement, as even the angels His holiness will rest upon us. Our soul will be filled to have God reveal the truth that no flesh should glory in his glory (1 Corinthians 1:29). The eye of the LORD is upon those that fear The true fear of God will never keep us back and strengthen it. The lower we bow, the deeper we feel we have The lower we bow, the nearer God will come Let every exercise of waiting, our whole habit hope - a hope as bright and boundless as God's The fatherly kindness of God is such that the state in which we come to Him. Such are God's waiting ones. And now, think of the God on whom we wait. Scripture: The eye of the LORD is upon those mercy to deliver their souls from death and His watchful eye is not to prevent the danger to stimulate men to wait on Him, but to deliver The dangers are often very real and dark, or spiritual life, may appear to be utterly But there is always one hope: God's eye is That eye sees the danger and in tender love the moment when the heart is ripe for the This living, mighty God, oh, let's fear Him And let us humbly but boldly say, Our soul shield. . . . Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according Oh, the blessedness of waiting on such a God! A very present help in every time of trouble; (Psalm 46:1). Children of God, won't you learn to bow in to wait in stillness to see the salvation In the utmost spiritual famine, and when death He delivers, and He keeps alive. Repeat the psalm not only in solitude, but speaks not of one but of all God's people: and our shield. Strengthen and encourage each other in the only say of himself, but also of his brethren: we will be glad and rejoice in his saving My soul, wait thou only upon God! Eleventh Day Be silent before the LORD and wait patiently they shall inherit the earth. - Psalm 37:7, 9 (Luke 21:19). For patience is necessary (Hebrews 10:36). The patience finishes the work, that ye may Such words of the Holy Spirit show us what life and character. Nowhere is there a better place for developing This is where we discover how impatient we We confess at times that we are impatient or with ourselves and our slow progress in If we set ourselves to wait upon God, we shall He does not do our bidding as soon as we wish. In waiting upon God, our eyes are opened to to see that the sooner we yield to it, the So then it is not of him that wills, nor of 9:16). We have as little power to increase or strengthen it. We were not born of blood, nor of the will (John 1:13). Even so, our willing and running, our desire that has mercy. All the exercises of the spiritual life, our have great value. But they can go no further than this - that to look to and depend on God Himself, and mercy. The waiting teaches us our absolute dependence in perfect patience. We place ourselves at His disposal. They that wait for the LORD, they shall inherit The heirs must wait; they can afford to wait. Be silent before the LORD and wait patiently Or, be still before the Lord. It is resting in the Lord, in His will, His makes patience easy. And the resting in Him is nothing but being It is having our thoughts and wishes, and in that great peace of God that passes all That peace keeps the heart and mind when we made our request known to Him (Philippians The rest, the silence, the stillness, and and joy in God Himself. The needs, the reasonableness, and the blessedness soul. Our patience will be seen as the counterpart He longs to bless us much more than we desire But, as the farmer has patience for the fruit waits for us. Let us remember this and wait patiently for word is true that I the LORD will hasten it Be silent before the LORD and wait patiently Yes, for Him. Don't only seek for help or the gift; you Give God His glory by resting in Him, by trusting This patience honors Him and leaves Him on self wholly into His hands. It lets God be God. If your waiting is for some special request, If your waiting is an exercise of the spiritual wait patiently. Whether it is in the shorter, specific periods soul, rest in the Lord; be silent before the Those that wait for the LORD, they shall inherit My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twelfth Day Wait on the LORD and keep his way, and he - Psalm 37:34 meet, we inquire about the places where he When waiting on God, we need to be careful to find Him apart from these. Thou didst come out to meet him that with In thy ways they remembered thee (Isaiah 64:5). We may be sure that God is never to be found And by the soul who seeks and patiently waits, Wait on the LORD and keep his way, and he How close the connection is between the two and disposition, and keep his way deals with The outer life must be in harmony with the the strength for the outer. Our God has made His ways for our conduct for His grace and help in our heart. If we do not keep His ways, our waiting on The surrender to obedience to all His will of His fellowship. Notice how strongly this comes out in the It speaks of the evildoer who prospers in himself (Psalm 37:7). When we see men around us who are prosperous we are left in difficulty or suffering, we so unjust and then turning to seek our prosperity The psalm says, Do not be angry (verse 1); Be silent before the LORD and wait patiently wrath (verse 8). Depart from evil, and do good (verse 27); ones (verse 28). The righteous shall inherit the earth (verse The law of his God is in his heart; therefore And then this follows: Wait on the LORD and If you do what God asks you to do, God will Let no one give in to the fear and claim that This robs one of all confidence. True, you don't have the strength yet to keep you have already received strength. Surrender yourself willingly to keep all God's waiting on Him. Give up your whole being to God without reserve to you and work in you that which is pleasing Keep His ways as you know them in the Word. Keep His ways as nature teaches them in always Keep His ways as Providence points them out. Keep His ways as the Holy Spirit suggests. Don't think of waiting on God while you say However weak you feel, just be willing, and by His power. Wait on the LORD and keep his way. It may be that the consciousness of shortcomings than a help in waiting on God. Don't let it be so. Haven't we said more than once that the very is utter and absolute ineffectiveness? Why not come with everything evil you feel unwatchfulness, unfaithfulness, and all that Put your power in God's omnipotence and find Your failure has been due to one thing: you Come and bow before God until you learn that can work any good thing. Believe that in yourself and all that nature Be content to receive the working of His mighty Waiting on God will become the renewal of weary, to walk in His paths and never faint Wait on the LORD and keep his way will be My soul, wait thou only upon God! Thirteenth Day And now, Lord, what shall I wait for? My hope is in thee. Deliver me from all my rebellions. - Psalm 39:7-8 we are waiting for. Other times we think we do know, even though don't know what to ask as we ought. God is able to do for us exceeding abundantly danger of limiting Him when we confine our It is great to proclaim what our psalm says: I scarcely know or can tell; this only can How we see this limiting of God in the case When Moses promised them meat in the wilderness, in the wilderness? Behold, he smote the rock that the waters he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people? (Psalm 78:19-20). If they had been asked whether God could provide yes. God had done it; He could do it again. But when the thought came of God doing something not rise above their experience or their own Likewise, we may limit God by our idea of We must beware of limiting the Holy One of Let us believe that the promises of God we beyond our thoughts of them. Let us believe that in a power and an abundance our understanding. And let us therefore cultivate the habit of we need, but also for all that His grace and In every true prayer two hearts are involved. The one is your heart with its little, dark, can do. The other is God's great heart with its infinite, What do you think? To which of these two should the larger place Undoubtedly, to the heart of God. Everything depends upon knowing and being done. Waiting on God is meant to teach this. Think about God's wonderful love and redemption; Confess how little you understand what God pray, say, And now, Lord, what shall I wait My heart doesn't know. God's heart knows and waits to give. My hope is in thee. Wait on God to do more than you can ask or Apply this to the prayer that follows: Deliver You may have prayed to be delivered from temper, It seems to be in vain. Might it not be that you have had your own answer, or that you have not waited on the riches of His glory what has not entered the Learn to worship God as the God who does wonders, something supernatural and divine. Bow before Him, and wait upon Him, until your a divine and almighty worker. Consent to know only what and how He will godlike, something to be waited for in deep Let the And now, Lord, what shall I wait for? My hope is in thee become the spirit of every He will do His work in His time. Dear soul, in waiting on God you may often expect. Be of good courage - this ignorance is often He is teaching you to leave everything in Wait for the LORD: be of good courage, and for the LORD. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Fourteenth Day I waited patiently for the LORD, and he inclined And he has put a new song in my mouth, even - Psalm 40:1, 3 from experience of the sure and blessed outcome True patience is foreign to our self-confident upon God; this element of true faith is so on what the Word teaches. The word patience is derived from the Latin It suggests the thought of being under the gladly be free. At first we submit against our will; experience patient endurance is our wisest choice. In waiting on God, it is of infinite consequence to, but also because we lovingly and joyfully Father. Patience then becomes our highest blessedness It honors God and gives Him time to have His It is the highest expression of our faith It brings the soul perfect rest in the assurance Patience is the token of our full consent and time as He thinks best. True patience is the losing of our self-will Such patience is needed for the true and complete Such patience is the growth and fruit of our To many it appears strange how difficult it The great stillness of soul before God that for Him to reveal Himself does not happen The deep humility that is afraid to let its as God works to will and to do, comes slowly. The meekness that is content to be and to develops with time. The entire resignation of the will that only can move and mold occurs over a lifetime. None of these elements of perfect patience They will come gradually as the soul maintains upon God: from him cometh my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation (Psalm Have you ever noticed what proof we have that grace is given? Note these words of Paul: strengthened with unto all - all what? - all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness Yes, we need to be strengthened with all God's His glorious power, if we are to wait on God God reveals Himself in us as our life and to leave everything in His hands. If any are inclined to depression because of good courage; it is in the course of our strengthens us and works out in us the patience He works the patience of Christ Himself in Listen to the voice of one who was deeply he inclined unto me and heard my cry. Hear what he passed through: He brought me of the miry clay and set my feet upon a rock And He has put a new song in my mouth, even Patient waiting upon God brings a rich reward, God Himself will put a new song into your O Christian! Don't be impatient - whether it is in the it difficult to wait, or in the delay with of your heart's desire for the revelation Fear not, but rest in the Lord, and wait patiently If you sometimes feel as if patience is not The Lord direct your hearts into the love (2 Thessalonians 3:5 KJV). The Lord directs your heart into the patience will guide you. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Fifteenth Day They soon forgot his works; they waited not - Psalm 106:13 the wilderness. He had wonderfully redeemed them, and He was But when the time of need came, they waited They didn't think about the almighty God who ask what His plans might be. They simply thought the thoughts of their their unbelief. They waited not for his counsel. This has been the sin of God's people in all In the land of Canaan in the days of Joshua, due to this one sin. In going up against Ai, in making a covenant without conquering the whole land, they waited 2:1-2). Even a mature believer is in danger from this Word and thinking his own thoughts without Let's take the warning and see what Israel Let's especially regard this not only as a is exposed to, but also as one against danger to be on their guard against. Our whole relationship to God is ruled in as it is in heaven. He has promised to make known His will to Our position should be that of waiting for and actions. In our church worship, in our prayer meetings, as managers, directors, committees, or helpers be to determine the mind of God. God always works according to the counsel will is sought, found, and honored, the more in a mighty way. The great danger in all assemblies is that our past experience of God's leading, our God's will, we trust in these and do not realize with every step. There may be elements of God's will, application and leading of God, and manifestations of of as yet. God is willing to open these up to the souls for Him to make it known. When we come together and praise God for all the same time limit Him by not expecting greater Even after God had given water out of the bread. While we think that we know and trust the hinder Him by not giving Him time or cultivating The most solemn duty of a minister is to teach Why was it that in the house of Cornelius, Spirit fell on all those who heard the word They had said, we are all here present before thee of God (Acts 10:33). We may come together to give and to listen with little spiritual profit if there is no In all our gatherings, we need to believe of God's saints, as they wait to be led by and the heart cannot conceive of. The assemblies of God's saints must cultivate more consciousness of ignorance of God's plans, show us, and more expectation that He Himself These must be the marks of the assemblies not for his counsel. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Sixteenth Day I have waited for the LORD, my soul has waited, My soul has waited for the Lord more than than those that watch for the morning. - Psalm 130:5-6 intense longing by the mariners in a shipwrecked at nighttime, or by an army that finds itself The morning light will show what hope of escape The morning may bring life and liberty. Likewise, the saints of God have longed for long for the morning. More than watchmen for the morning, they have Can we say that too? Our waiting on God can have no higher purpose in us, and through us all the day. God is light; God is a sun. Paul said, God, who commanded the light to to bring forth the light. What light? The light of the knowledge of the clarity 4:6). Just as the sun shines its beautiful, life-giving into our hearts the light of His glory and Our heart is meant to have that light filling It can have it, because God is our sun. It is written, Thy sun shall set no more (Isaiah God's love shines on us without ceasing. But can we indeed enjoy it all the day? We can. But how can we? Let nature give us the answer. Those beautiful trees and flowers with all the sun shining on them? They do nothing; they simply bask in the sunshine The sun is millions of miles away, but its and the tiniest flower that lifts its little of light and blessing as what floods the widest We don't have to worry about the light we and shines the light around us all day. We simply expect it, receive it, and enjoy The only difference between nature and grace unconsciously as they drink in the blessing acceptance with us. Faith, simple faith in God's Word and love, and enjoy the unspeakable glory of His grace. As the trees stand and grow day by day and we need to welcome whatever sunshine may come - to abide in the light of God and let Him brings. And if you ask if it can really be that I naturally and heartily as I recognize and - yes, it can, indeed. From my breakfast table I look out on a beautiful In our spring and autumn months, the light invariably say, how beautiful! And the question arises: Is the light of the beauty and joy? Is there no provision for the light of God There is, indeed, if the soul will be still Dear Christian, learn to wait on the Lord Everything within you may feel very dark, for the light of God? The first beginnings of light may be just humble you because of sin. Can't you trust the light to expel the darkness? Believe it will. Just bow in stillness before God and wait In humble faith, profess that God is light, that of the sun. God the Father is light. God the Son is the eternal and incomprehensible God the Holy Spirit is the concentrated, embodied, The Spirit is the light that enters, dwells, God is light and shines in my heart. Sometimes I have been so occupied with my the shutters to let His light in. Unbelief has kept it out. I bow in faith: God is shining His light into has shined in our hearts, is my God. What would I think of a sun that could not What would I think of a God who does not shine? No, God shines! God is light! I will take time, be still, and rest in the My eyes are weak, and the windows are not The light does shine; the light will shine I will learn to walk in the light and joy My soul has waited for the Lord more than My soul, wait thou only upon God! Seventeenth Day I will wait for the LORD, who hid his face him. - Isaiah 8:17 Him, not on behalf of himself but for his It suggests how our waiting upon God, though for His revelation to us, or the answer to there. We may walk in the full light of God's countenance, around us. Far from being content to think that this or the consequence of their indifference, with tender hearts and wait on God on their The privilege of waiting upon God is one that Even as Christ used His place of privilege presence, so we must use our access for our it is to enter in and wait upon God. I will wait for the LORD, who hid his face You worship with a certain congregation, but in the preaching or in the fellowship that You belong to a denomination with its many There may be so much error or worldliness or trust in ordinances and observances that and there is little power for conversion or There are also branches of Christian work gospel hall, young men's association, or mission Spirit's working appears to indicate that You think you know the reason. There is too much trust in men and money; there is too little faith and prayer; too Spirit of the crucified Jesus. At times you feel as if things are hopeless; Believe that God can help and will help. Let the Spirit of the prophet come into you, wait on God on behalf of His erring children. Instead of the tone of judgment or condemnation, to wait on God. If others fail to do this, double your own The deeper the darkness, the greater the need The greater the self-confidence of those around and blind, the more urgent the call on you to Him who can help. You must be at your post waiting on God to or to sigh, I will wait for the LORD, who There is a still larger circle - the Christian Think of Greek, Roman Catholic, and Protestant belong to them. Or think only of the Protestant churches with How much nominal profession and formality! How much rule of the flesh and of man is found What abundant proof that God does hide His What are we to do who see and mourn this? The first thing to be done is this: I will house of Jacob. Let us wait on God in the humble confession Let us take time and wait on Him in this exercise. Let us wait on God in tender, loving intercession wrong their lives or their teaching may appear. Let us wait on God in faith and expectation, Let us wait on God with the simple offering will send us to our brethren. Let us wait on God and give Him no rest until Yes, let us rest in the Lord and wait patiently His children. And of the lifting up of the light of His people, let us say, I have waited for the I have waited. My soul has waited for the Lord, more than than those that watch for the morning (Psalm My soul, wait thou only upon God! Eighteenth Day And it shall be said in that day, Behold, and he has saved us: this is the LORD, whom in his saving health. - Isaiah 25:9 The one is that it is the language of God's the other is that the fruit of their waiting they could joyfully say, Behold, this is our The power and the blessing of united waiting Note the twice-repeated whom we have waited In some time of trouble, the hearts of the from all human hope or help, they had set God. Isn't this what we need in our churches and Isn't the need of the church and the world Aren't there evils in the church to which Don't we have ritualism and rationalism, formalism power? Don't we have culture and money and pleasure Aren't the powers of the church totally inadequate and wretchedness in Christian countries and And isn't there a provision in the promise that can meet the need and give the church that God expects of her? Wouldn't united waiting upon God for the supply We cannot doubt it. The object of a more definite waiting upon in personal worship. It would mean a deeper conviction that God entrance into our deep helplessness and the Him. We must develop a consciousness that the essential power. This waiting upon God would bring a confident give the secret of His acceptance and presence, power. The purpose would be to bring everyone in deep sense of God's presence, so that when of having met God Himself, of having left in stillness while He works out His salvation. This experience is indicated in our text. The fulfillment of the words may be in such all can join in the cry, Behold, this is our When God's people become conscious of His may experience and with holy awe feel this is the LORD. This is what is too often missed in our meetings The godly minister has no more difficult, to meet God and bring each one into contact Now therefore we are all here present before in which Peter's audience was prepared for Waiting before God, waiting for God, and waiting His presence. An assembly of believers may gather for the of silence to wait on God alone. They may open their hearts for whatever God His will, of new openings in work, or of new They would soon have reason to say, Behold, and he has saved us: this is the LORD, whom in His saving health. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Nineteenth Day Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O LORD, judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants - Isaiah 26:8-9 KJV all those that wait for him. - Isaiah 30:18 Mercy and judgment are always together in In the flood, in the deliverance of Israel Canaanites, we see mercy in the midst of judgment. In these instances with the inner circle of the sin, while mercy saves the sinner. Or rather, mercy saves the sinner, not in came upon his sin. In waiting on God, we must beware that as In the way of thy judgments, O LORD, have That will prove true in our inner experience. If we are honest in our longing for holiness His holy presence will arouse and discover its opposition to God's law, and its inability The words will come true: Who may abide the and who shall stand when he appears? for he shall be like a refiner's fire (Malachi Oh that thou would . . . come down, . . . as God executes His judgments upon sin within its wickedness and guilt. Many try to flee from these judgments; the from sin bows under them in humility and in In silence the soul says, Let God arise, let In the way of thy judgments, . . . have we Let no one who seeks to learn the blessed attempt to wait on Him only reveals more of Let no one despair because unconquered sins, hide God's face. Wasn't that mercy hidden in His own beloved Oh, submit and sink deep under the judgment releases wonderful mercy. It is written, Zion shall be ransomed with Wait on God; in the faith that His tender is in the midst of judgment. Wait for Him, and He will be gracious to you. There is another application - one of unspeakable In the way of His judgments, we expect God What a thought! We know about these coming judgments; we know live in carelessness and will perish under Oh, shouldn't we do our utmost to warn them mercy on them? If we understand our lack of boldness, zeal, and persistently as a God of judgment? Shouldn't we ask Him to reveal Himself in so that we might be inspired with a new fear May we be compelled to speak and pray as never Truly, waiting on God is not meant to be a The objective is to let God and His holiness, and the Spirit and fire that burns in heaven warn and rouse men with the message that we O Christian, prove that you really believe My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twentieth Day And therefore will the LORD wait for you, will he be exalted having mercy upon you: are all those that wait for him. - Isaiah 30:18 God, but also of God's waiting upon us. The vision of Him waiting on us will give on Him. It will give an unspeakable confidence that If He waits for us, then we can be sure that to find those He has been seeking. Let us seek at this moment, in the spirit of what it means. Therefore will the LORD wait for you, that We shall accept and echo back the message: Look up and see the great God upon His throne. He is love - an unceasing and inexpressible blessedness to all His creatures. He longs and delights to bless. He has inconceivably glorious purposes for and power in them by the power of His Holy He waits with all the longings of a father's He waits that He may be gracious unto you. And each time you wait upon Him or seek to you may look up and see Him ready to meet Yes, connect every exercise and every breath your God waiting for you. But if He waits to be gracious even after the help I seek, but rather waits longer and One reason is this: God is a wise husbandman earth, and hath long patience for it (James He cannot gather the fruit until it is ripe. He knows when we are spiritually ready to glory. Waiting in the sunshine of His love is what Waiting under the cloud of trial that breaks Be assured that if God waits longer than you precious. God waited four thousand years before He sent He will avenge His elect speedily; He will The other reason He waits points to what has The giver is more than the gift; God is more is the only way to learn to find our life Oh, if God's children only knew what a glorious be linked in fellowship with Him, then they them waiting, they would learn to understand Therefore will the LORD wait for you, that His waiting will be the highest proof of His Blessed are all those that wait for him. The queen has her ladies-in-waiting, or attendants. The position is one of subordination and service, dignity and privilege, because a wise and friends. What a dignity and blessedness to be attendants-in-waiting for every indication of His will or favor goodness, and His grace. The LORD is good unto those that wait in him Blessed are all those that wait for him. What a blessing when a waiting soul and a God cannot do His work without His waiting be our work, as it is His. And if His waiting is nothing but goodness a rejoicing in that goodness and a confident Let every thought of waiting become simply blessedness, because it brings us to a God to us perfectly as the Gracious One. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-First Day Those that wait for the LORD shall have new eagles; they shall run and not be weary; and - Isaiah 40:31 thoughts of the one on whom we wait. Our waiting on God will depend on our faith In our text we have the close of a passage and almighty One. It is as that revelation enters our soul that of what we know Him to be - a God altogether Listen to the words: Why sayest thou, O Jacob, from the LORD (Isaiah 40:27). Why do you speak as if God does not hear or Scripture: Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the God of the age earth? He does not faint, nor is he weary (Isaiah Far from it, for He gives power to the faint; strength (Isaiah 40:29). The glory of young men is their strength, children stumble and fall (Proverbs 20:29; All that is considered strong with man shall Those that wait for the LORD shall have new eagles; they shall run and not be weary; and They shall be strong with the strength of Yes, they shall mount up with wings as eagles. What does wings as eagles mean? The eagle is the king of birds; it soars the Believers are to live a heavenly life in the They are to live where God lives; they need To them that wait on Him it shall be given. How are these eagles' wings obtained? Only in one way - by the eagle birth. You are born of God, so you have the eagles' You may not have known it, and you may not you to use them. You know how the eagles are taught the use Watch the distant cliff that rises a thousand High on a ledge on the rock is an eagle's See the mother bird come, stir up her nest, the precipice. See how they flutter and fall and sink toward But the mother eagle flutters over her young, them on her wings (Deuteronomy 32:11). They ride on her wings, and she brings them She does this over and over, each time casting and carrying them. So the LORD alone did lead him (Deuteronomy Yes, the instinct of that mother eagle was the Almighty trains His people to mount as He stirs up your nest. He disappoints your hopes. He brings down your confidence. He makes you fear and tremble, as all your and helpless. And all the while, He spreads His strong wings His everlasting Creator strength to work in All He asks is that you sink down in your Jehovah strength to carry you as you ride Dear child of God, I pray you lift up your Listen to Him who said He does not faint or not faint or be weary and asks nothing except Let your answer be - with such a God, so mighty, My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Second Day Thou shalt know that I am the LORD: for those - Isaiah 49:23 - Isaiah 30:18 How God seeks to draw us to wait on Him with be in vain: Those that wait for me shall not Though we have often experienced this, we waiting must and can be the very breath of It is a continuous resting in God's presence Him to perfect His work in us. Listen and meditate, until our hearts can that wait for him. In the prayer of Psalm 25 we read, Let me The very prayer shows how we fear that it Let us listen to God's answer until every the words God speaks. Yes, Lord, we believe what You say: those 49:23). Blessed are all those that wait for him (Isaiah The context of these two passages points us and to the human eye there seemed to be no But God interjects with His word of promise of His people. As the God who has undertaken the work of on Him and assures them that disappointment We too are living in days when much in the formalism is indescribably sad. Amid all we praise God for, there is much If it wasn't for God's promises, we might But in His promises, the living God has given He calls us to wait on Him. He assures us that we shall not be put to Oh, that our hearts might learn to wait before to us, and in the promises He reveals Himself We shall be drawn to wait on Him alone. May God increase the company of those who help and our shield (Psalm 33:20). This waiting upon God on behalf of His church that waiting on Him has taken in our personal The mind may often have beautiful visions may speak of them in stirring words, but these No, it is what we know of God in our personal as He reigns, rules, and reveals Himself in That is the real measure of the spiritual bring to our fellow men. As we know how blessed the waiting on God hope in the blessing to come on the church The key word of all our expectations will ashamed. From what He has done in us, we shall trust Blessed are all those that wait for him. Yes, blessed even now in the waiting. The promised blessings for us or for others of knowing and having Him, the divine blesser is ours even now. Allow this truth to possess your souls, so of the creature, the highest blessedness of Even as the sunshine enters with its light every little blade of grass that rises upward God meets each waiting child in the greatness He shines in our hearts to bring forth the of God in the face of Jesus Christ (2 Corinthians Read these words again until your heart learns Who can measure the difference between the Still, the grass has all of the sun it can Do believe that in waiting on God, His greatness wonderfully. Do you see how in emptiness, poverty, and surrender to His will, you can be still? As you wait on Him, God draws nigh. He will reveal Himself as the God who will Let your heart always take up the song: Blessed My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Third Day For since the beginning of the world men have hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee, what him. - Isaiah 64:4 KJV hath the eye seen a God besides thee, who In the King James Version, the thought is In both versions, the two thoughts are common: human heart cannot conceive will be revealed The difference is that in the ASV it is the what He has prepared for man to work. In 1 Corinthians 2, the citation is in regard as in the KJV above, and that is the view The previous verses in Isaiah, especially of God's people. The prayer has been poured out, Look down Hast thou hardened our heart to thy fear? Return for thy slaves (Isaiah 63:17). And even more urgent: Oh that thou would rend when the melting fire burns, . . . to make 64:1-2). Then follows the plea from the past: when look for, that the mountains flowed down at This is now the faith that has been awakened He is still the same God. Neither hath the eye hath seen, O God, beside for him. God alone knows what He can do for His waiting As Paul expounds and applies this, he says, Spirit of God (1 Corinthians 2:11). But God has revealed this unto us by His Spirit The need of God's people and the call for as it was in the time of Isaiah. There is now, as there was then, as there after God with their whole heart. But if we look at Christendom as a whole, infinite cause for begging God to part the Nothing but a special intervention of almighty I fear we have no idea of what the so-called God. Unless God comes as when the melting fire our labors are equally fruitless. Look at the ministry - how much of it is in How little is the demonstration of the Spirit Think of the unity of the body - how little love that binds God's children into one. Think of holiness, the holiness of Christlike little the world sees that they have men among and heaven live. What is to be done? There is only one thing. We must wait upon God. And what for? We must cry with a cry that never rests, Oh would come down, that the mountains might We must desire and believe; we must ask and We must set our faith on a God of whom men who wait for Him. The wonder-doing God, who can surpass all Yes, let God's people enlarge their hearts above what we can ask or think (Ephesians Let us band together as His elect who cry seen. He is able to arise and make His people a And therefore will the LORD wait for you, are all those that wait for him. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Fourth Day The LORD is good unto those that wait in him. - Lamentations 3:25 19:17). His goodness is in the heavens. Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast O taste and see that the LORD is good (Psalm And, the true way of entering into and rejoicing Him. The Lord is good, but His children often do for Him to reveal it. But to those who persevere in waiting, whose One might think that only those who have to But this is only when they grow impatient. The truly waiting ones will all say, The LORD If you desire to fully know the goodness of of waiting on Him. As we first start waiting upon God, our heart God graciously uses our need and desire for we imagine. We seek gifts; He, the Giver, longs to give For this reason He often withholds the gifts, He continually seeks to win the heart of His He wishes that when He bestows the gift, we a long time to come or if it never comes. We should always be experiencing this: It The LORD is good unto those that wait in him. What a blessed life the life of waiting then as we adore and trust His goodness. As the soul learns this secret, every act into the goodness of God to let it do its And every experience of God's goodness gives of only taking refuge in time of need, we throughout the day. Whatever duties and engagements occupy our with the secret art of always waiting. Waiting becomes our habit and disposition; our soul. Dear Christian, don't you see that waiting to be thought of from time to time, but it very root of the Christian life? It gives a higher value and a new power to because it links us in unalterable dependence And it gives us the unbroken enjoyment of those that wait in him. Take time and trouble to cultivate this waiting We get too much religion secondhand from the That teaching has great value if it leads John the Baptist sent his disciples away from What our religion needs is more of God. Many of us are too occupied with our work. As with Martha, the very service we want to it is neither pleasing to Him nor profitable The more we work, the more we need to wait be our meat and drink, our nourishment and of exhausting us. The LORD is good unto those that wait in him. How good none can tell except those who prove How good none can fully tell except those My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Fifth Day It is good to wait quietly for the salvation - Lamentations 3:26 be fainthearted (Isaiah 7:4). In quietness and in confidence shall be your Such words reveal the close connection between a deep need there is for quietness as a component If we are to have our whole heart turned towards creature, from all that occupies and interests, God is a Being of infinite greatness and glory, Him that it needs our whole heart and all measure to know and receive Him. Everything that is not of God that excites hopes, or makes us glad hinders us in our The message is one of deep meaning: Take heed, In quietness . . . shall be your strength. It is good to wait quietly. The very thought of God in His majesty and Scripture abundantly testifies: earth keep silence before him. (Habakkuk 2:20) GOD. (Zephaniah 1:7) he is raised up out of his holy habitation. (Zechariah 2:13) as an end towards more effectual prayer and of perfect quietness will not be obtained. But when the waiting on God is seen as an forms of fellowship with the Holy One, the the soul into a holy stillness and make way Then the fulfillment of the precious promise comes: The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, in that day (Isaiah 2:11). Let everyone who desires to learn the art heed, and be quiet. It is good to wait quietly. Take time to be separate from all friends time to be still and quiet before God. Take time to secure stillness not only from your energy. Let the Word and prayer be precious; but remember, The activity of the mind in studying the Word the activities of the heart with its desires that we do not come to the still waiting on Our whole being needs to be bowed low in silence At first it may seem difficult to know how and heart subdued, but every effort will be We will find that quiet waiting becomes pleasant, bring a peace and a rest that give a blessing It is good to wait quietly for the salvation Yes, it is good. The quietness is the confession of our helplessness. With all our willing and running, with all not be done; we must receive it from God. Quietness is the confession of our trust that - the quiet resting in Him alone. It is the confession of our desire to sink reveal Himself. Let us wait quietly. Let there be a quiet reverence, an abiding world in our soul that waits for God to do May our whole character come to bear the beautiful of God. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Sixth Day Therefore I will wait for the LORD; I will my God will hear me. - Micah 7:7 Expectation Corner? If not, you should get a copy; you will find It tells of a king who prepared a city for Not far from them were large storehouses, if they just sent in their requests. But there was one condition - they were to messengers came with the answer to their petitions, to receive them. The sad story is told of one despondent person because he believed he was too unworthy. One day he was taken to the king's storehouses, that had been made up for him with his address There was the garment of praise, the oil of The messengers had been to his door but found From that time on, he learned the lesson that I will wait for the LORD; I will wait for me. Waiting for the answer to prayer is only part We want to realize the blessed truth that part. When we have special petitions in connection must be the confident assurance of my God A holy, joyful expectancy is the very essence This is not only in reference to the many the one petition that should be chief in every have full charge. That Christ may be fully formed within us of God is what God has promised. God's people too seldom seek this - often This is what we ought to seek and dare to work it in us. But God Himself must work it, and therefore We must see how the faith of the power of as the resurrection and the perfecting of His work. Waiting must become more than a tarrying before on Him who raises the dead. Notice how the threefold use of the name of from whom is our expectation. I will wait for the LORD. I will wait for the God of my saving health. My God will hear me. Everything that pertains to salvation and direct, mighty work of God Himself within Every moment of a life in the will of God And the one thing I have to do is look to and to hold fast with confident assurance God says, Be still, and know that I am God. There is no stillness like that of the grave. In the grave of Jesus, in the fellowship of and wisdom, its strength and energy, there As we cease from self and our soul becomes Be still, and know - then you shall know - that There is no stillness like the stillness Jesus 4:39). In Christ, in His death, in His life, and be still, and God will come in, take possession, My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Seventh Day Simeon, . . . was just and devout, waiting Spirit was upon him. . . . Anna, a prophetess, . . . spoke of him Jerusalem. - Luke 2:25, 36, 38 Just - righteous in all his conduct; devout presence; waiting for the consolation of Israel and the Holy Spirit was upon him. In the devout waiting, he had been prepared And Simeon was not the only one. Anna spoke of him to all those that looked This was the one mark amid surrounding formalism women in Jerusalem. They were waiting on God and looking for His Now that the consolation of Israel has come, do we still need to wait? We do indeed, but won't our waiting differ as coming? It will, particularly in two respects. We now wait on God in the full power of the Our waiting is in the full power of the redemption. Christ spoke, At that day ye shall know that Abide in Me? The Epistles teach us to present ourselves in Christ, Jesus, our Lord, and that we are things in Christ (Romans 6:11; Ephesians 1:3). Our waiting on God may now be in the wonderful Holy Spirit within us, that we are accepted Him rests on us, and that we are living in and sight of God. The old saints took their stand on the Word can rest on the Word too. But oh, as one with Christ Jesus, we have In our waiting on God, let this be our confidence: we may be sure that our waiting is not in Our waiting also differs in that while they accomplished and now wait for its revelation Christ not only said, Abide in me, but also, The Epistles not only speak of us in Christ of redeeming love (Colossians 1:27). As we maintain our place in Christ day by a way that He is formed in us, and His mind and substance in us, so that each believer 2:20). My life in Christ up there in heaven and Christ's other. The more my waiting on God is marked by the thirsts for and claims the Christ in me. And the waiting on God, which began with special one thing - Lord, reveal Your redemption fully Our waiting differs from that of the old saints we entertain. But it is essentially the same: waiting on Learn one lesson from Simeon and Anna. How utterly impossible it was for them to the birth of Christ or His death. It was God's work. They could do nothing but wait. Are we as helpless in regard to the revelation We are indeed. God did not work out the great redemption to us. The secret thought that it is so, lies at The revelation of Christ in every individual one, step by step and moment by moment, is birth or resurrection of Christ. Until this truth enters and fills us, and God for each moment of our life in the enjoyment waiting for it, our waiting upon God will The sense of utter and absolute helplessness all must be the marks of our waiting as much As gloriously as God proved Himself to be He will do so to us also. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Eighth Day And ye yourselves like unto men that wait - Luke 12:36 who in his time shall show the blessed and of lords. - 1 Timothy 6:14-15 and true God and to wait for his Son from - 1 Thessalonians 1:9-10 and waiting for His Son from heaven, and no The waiting on God for His presence and power for waiting for Christ in humility and true The waiting for Christ coming from heaven on God its true tone of hopefulness and joy. The Father who will reveal His Son from heaven for the revelation of His Son as we wait. The present life and the coming glory are There is sometimes a danger of separating It is always easier to be engaged with the be faithful in the religion of today. As we look at what God has done in the past of present duty and present submission to Waiting on God must lead to waiting for Christ waiting for Christ must remind us of the duty the waiting for Christ is in spirit and in There is a danger of being more occupied with to come. And, the study of future events is so extensive that only humble waiting on God can save us intellectual study for the true love of Him If you say you wait for Christ's coming, be All you who seek to wait on God to reveal men waiting for the revelation of His Son The hope of that glorious appearing will strengthen you now. The same omnipotent love that will reveal you for it. That blessed hope and the glorious appearing is one of the great bonds of union given to He shall come to be glorified in his saints (2 Thessalonians 1:10). Then we shall all meet, and the unity of the glory. It will be the meeting place and the triumph Jesus will receive His own and present them His own will meet Him and worship that blessed His own will meet each other in the ecstasy Let us wait, long for, and love the appearing Tender love for Him and tender love for each I fear that this is sometimes forgotten. A beloved brother in Holland spoke about the the bride. I ventured to express a doubt. An unworthy bride about to be married to a and the riches that she is to receive. The expectancy of faith might be strong, and It is not when we are most occupied with prophetic are clinging close to our Lord and His brethren Jesus refuses to accept our love except as Waiting for His coming means waiting for the in the body, while we seek to maintain that Those who love most are the most ready for Love for each other is the life and beauty And how is this to be brought about? Beloved child of God, if you want to learn now waiting on God in heaven. Remember how Jesus always waited on God. He could do nothing by Himself. God perfected His Son through suffering and God alone can give you the deep spiritual Wait on God for it. Waiting for Christ Himself is so different Any Christian can wait for future events, Holy Spirit to wait for Christ. Therefore, all who wait on God look to Him heaven in the Spirit. And you who want to wait for His Son must you. The revelation of Christ in us as it is given for the full revelation of Christ in glory. My soul, wait thou only upon God! Twenty-Ninth Day He commanded them that they should not depart the Father. - Acts 1:4 in Jerusalem at Christ's birth, we saw how it was then, even though the redemption they We wait for the full revelation in us of what comprehend. In one sense, the fulfillment can never come In another sense, we daily need to wait for as deep a reality as with the first disciples. The Holy Spirit is not a person distinct from are distinct. The Father and the Spirit are never without The Father is always in the Spirit; the Spirit Each moment the same Spirit that is in us the Spirit will be the first to wait on God strengthen him mightily by His Spirit in the The Spirit in us is not a power at our disposal. Nor is the Spirit an independent power, acting The Spirit is the real, living presence and Therefore, he who knows that the Spirit is and experience of the Spirit's indwelling We see this in the apostles. They were filled with the Spirit at Pentecost. When they returned from the council where for boldness to speak in His name, for a fresh fulfillment of His promise. At Samaria, many had been converted by the At the apostles' prayer, the Father once again Likewise, when speaking of the waiting company are all here present before God (Acts 10:33). Also, in Acts 13, it was when men prayed and fulfilled, and the Spirit said, Separate me I have called them (Acts 13:2). In Ephesians we also find Paul praying for that God would grant them the spirit of illumination And later Paul prayed that God would grant to be strengthened with might by his Spirit The Spirit given at Pentecost was not a being Him out of heaven to earth. God does not, He cannot, give anything in When He gives grace, or strength, or life, it is all inseparable from Him.1 And, it is He is God, present and working in us - the unceasing power as we praise Him for what to be more mightily fulfilled. What new meaning and promise does this give It teaches us to keep the place where the throne. It reminds us that as helpless as they were enemies before they received power, so we We can only be strong in the life of faith with God and Christ, with the life of the It assures us that the omnipotent God will that can bring to pass unexpected and impossible Oh, what won't the church be able to do when lives by waiting on God. With all of self and the world sacrificed with one accord for the promise of the Father, Come and let each of us be still in the presence - the Father is waiting to fill the church Let each of us say, &quot;He is willing to fill With this faith may a hush and a holy fear to receive all. Let life become a deep joy in the hope of My soul, wait thou only upon God! Thirtieth Day Therefore be thou converted unto thy God; continually. - Hosea 12:6 of life. Interrupt it for a single hour in a man, and Unbroken and ceaseless continuity is essential God wants me to be, God waits to make me, what He expects of me and what is pleasing If waiting on God is the essence of true religion, must be continuous. The call of God, in thy God wait continually, There may be times of special waiting when there unchanging and uninterrupted. This waiting continually is indeed a necessity. To those who are content with a feeble Christian what is essential for a good Christian. But some are praying, &quot;Lord, make me as holy Keep me as near to You as it is possible for Fill me as full of Your love as You are willing Those who are praying these prayers feel that no full abiding in Christ, and no constant without waiting continually on the Lord. Continual waiting is a possibility. Many think that it is out of the question They cannot be thinking of it all the time. Even when they wish to, they forget. They do not understand that it is a matter occupies it, even when the thoughts are otherwise A father's heart may be filled continuously or child from a distance, even though pressing When the heart has learned how powerless it when it has learned how surely and truly God promise to do the impossible for it, it learns In the midst of occupations and temptations, This waiting is a promise. God's commands are enablings; gospel precepts God will do for us. When you begin to wait on God, it is with but God is watching over you in love and secretly Sometimes waiting appears to be lost time, Waiting, even in darkness, is unconscious with, and He is working in you. God who calls you to wait on Him sees your Your spiritual life is in no respect your As little as you begin the work of waiting, God's Spirit is the One who has begun the you to wait continually. Waiting continually will be met and rewarded We are coming to the end of our meditations. If only you and I might learn one lesson: He does work continually, but the experience He who by His Spirit teaches you to wait continually is never ceasing. In the love and the life and the work of God, Do not limit God by your thoughts of what Fix your eyes upon this one truth: in His cannot do otherwise than to work in His child. Don't just look at the one side: if I wait No, look at the other side. Place God first and say, &quot;God works continually, Take time until the vision of your God working fills your being. Your waiting continually will then come by The holy habit of the soul will be full of I have waited for thee all the day. The Holy Spirit will keep you waiting. My soul, wait thou only upon God! MOMENT BY MOMENT2 moment. (Isaiah 27:3) Dying with Jesus, by death reckoned mine, Looking to Jesus till glory doth shine, Chorus - Moment by moment I'm kept in His Moment by moment I've life from above; Moment by moment, O Lord, I am Thine, Never a battle with wrong for the right, Lifting above us His banner so white, Chorus. Never a trial that He is not there, Never a sorrow that He doth not share, Chorus. Never a heartache, and never a groan, Never a danger but there on the throne Chorus. Never a weakness that He doth not feel, Moment by moment, in woe or in weal, Thirty-First Day My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation He only is my rock and my salvation. - Psalm 62:5-6 KJV God, but not only on Him. There may be other secret confidences that expected. So the word only throws light on the path My soul, wait thou only upon God. He only is my rock. Yes, my soul, wait thou only upon God. There is only one God and only one source is my rock; my soul, wait thou only upon God. You desire to be good, but there is none good goodness except what is received directly You have sought to be holy, but there is none except what His Spirit of holiness breathes You would gladly live and work for God and He says, Hast thou not heard that the God ends of the earth? He does not faint, nor is he weary; . . . He have no might he increases strength. . . . those that wait for the LORD shall have He only is God; He only is my rock. My soul, wait thou only upon God. You will not find many who can help you in Enough brethren will draw you to put trust plans and human devices, as a means of grace But, my soul, wait thou only upon God Himself. His most sacred appointments become a snare The brazen serpent became Nehushtan, an idol; Let the living God stand alone with nothing My soul, wait thou only upon God. Eyes and hands and feet, mind and thought, of this life, but my soul, wait thou only You are an immortal spirit, created not for O, my soul, realize your destiny. Know your privilege, and wait thou only upon Don't let interest in religious thoughts and place of waiting upon God. My soul, wait thou, thy very self, thy inmost upon God. God is for you; you are for God; wait only Yes, my soul, wait thou only upon God. Beware of your two great enemies - the world Beware lest any earthly satisfaction or enjoyment, saying, I will enter . . . unto the God of Remember and study what Jesus said about denying deny himself (Mark 8:34). Tersteegen, a German religious writer, said, Pleasing self in little things may be strengthening My soul, wait thou only upon God; let Him Say continually and with an undivided heart, rock; I shall not be moved. Whatever your spiritual or physical need is, whatever your interest is in connection with solitude or in the rush of the world, in public - remember: My soul, wait thou only upon God. Let your expectations be from Him alone. He only is your Rock. My soul, wait thou only upon God. Never forget the two foundational truths on If you are ever inclined to think this waiting remind you at once. &quot;They&quot; are your absolute helplessness and Oh, admit the entire sinfulness of all that have anything to say. Admit your utter and unceasing inability to anything that is spiritually good. Enter into deep dependence on God to receive Enter into His covenant of redemption with ever what you have lost, and by His Son and presence and power. Thus, wait upon thy God continually and only. My soul, wait thou only upon God! No words can tell, no heart conceive, the Father and of Christ. Our God, in the infinite tenderness and omnipotence Oh, my soul, may I no longer need to repeat is in me rise and sing: Truly my soul waiteth I have waited for thee all the day. My soul, wait thou only upon God! NOTE: Law on the Holy Spirit.3 In the introduction I owe to Law's book. I believe that anyone who will take the time profit in connection with a life of waiting What he explains more clearly than I have 1. The very nature and being of God as the only imply that He must communicate the power by the power by which it can do that which is 2. The very nature and being of a creature is that existence is equally due to Him, which only be found in absolute, unceasing, moment-by-moment 3. The great value and blessing of the gift of redemption is that it is now possible for and work in them, as He did before the fall We need to know the restoration of the Holy us. 4. In the spiritual life, our great need is the The one is our total sinfulness and helplessness, towards the maintenance and increase of our The other is the infinite willingness of God's Himself and His blessedness to us, to meet we need by His Son and Spirit. Therefore, the very essence of true religion, of an unalterable dependence upon God, because ourselves to His love, which created us to its work in us. I don't need to point out how deep these truths - especially the life of waiting upon God. I am confident that those who are willing writer will appreciate my introduction to Andrew Murray - A Brief Biography His grandfather (Andrew) left the occupation flour mills of Scotland. He was a godly man, and his deathbed prayers of the ministry. John became an ordained minister in Scotland. John's younger brother, Andrew, became licensed by the Presbytery of Aberdeen. He became a missionary with the Dutch Reformed While in South Africa, Andrew met the woman Stegmann. She was of German ancestry, and her great-grandfather France when the Edict of Nantes, which had liberty, was revoked. Andrew and Susanna's first son was named John, of this brief biography and the author of Andrew Murray was born in South Africa on His father often read stories of revivals When Andrew was ten years old, he and his They stayed with their uncle John, the Scottish In 1840, William Burns, the revivalist, spoke He stayed with their uncle John while there, impassioned prayers for revival and the salvation Andrew and John went on to attend Marischal seventeen years old, from which they graduated From there they studied theology and refreshed of Utrecht in Holland. Rationalism was popular then. Mr. Murray in South Africa had written to In a letter to his sons, dated April 23, 1845, among the students, and even by professors, you, but be cautious in receiving them, by be supported. Try to act like the noble Bereans (Acts 17:11). By studying your Bibles and your own hearts Spirit, you will be led into all truth. . . . Whatever books may be recommended to Holy Scriptures. This must be a daily exercise, and must be for the guidance of the Holy Spirit.&quot; Reminiscent of George Whitefield and the Wesleys brothers joined a similar group at the University It was called Sechor Dabar (Remember the Word), of the subjects required for the ministerial The members of this group were often mocked, On May 9, 1848, John and Andrew Murray were Reformed Church, and they returned to South At the age of twenty-one, Andrew was given in a 50,000 square-mile territory in remote For weeks at a time, Andrew would ride on farmers. Andrew married Emma Rutherford, the daughter They had eight children together - four boys In 1860, Andrew Murray accepted the pastorate they heard some speakers tell stories of revivals Murray and others prayed earnestly for revival, not as Murray had expected. He became increasingly interested in sanctification movement.&quot; Andrew Murray became the pastor of a church in Wellington in 1877. Also in 1877, Murray traveled to the United Sunday schools, Moody's revivals, and the Murray also attended the Presbyterian Council the land, including visits to Holland and Murray returned to South Africa where he became and in training people for ministry. Murray's speaking schedule over the past few time in his life. His voice toward the end of 1879 began to for about two years, where he was not often He would write out his message at times, and Andrew tried visiting various doctors, traveling did not improve. He did spend more time studying and writing, After finding only temporary and inadequate more about healing by faith. In 1881, Murray was in London. He had wanted to be able to go to Switzerland life and who was now the head of an institute Murray learned that this man, Otto Stockmaier, They met together and discussed biblical passages Stockmaier urged Murray to attend the meetings on the topic of healing by faith and who then Murray visited the institute and remained He was taught that healing by faith was not to holiness and a life of consecration to Murray's voice improved, and he wrote and He did occasionally have less serious voice not to place such an emphasis on healing by study certainly caused him to believe in the for the rest of his life. Andrew Murray continued writing and speaking. He was a speaker at the famous annual holiness He was chosen to be the moderator of his church He wrote over 200 books and pamphlets, many His books include Absolute Surrender, Humility, The School of Obedience, Waiting on God, The Christ in the School of Prayer, The Two Covenants Andrew Murray spent his last moments on earth He passed from this life on January 18, 1917, This has been Waiting on God, Updated, Annotated Written by Andrew Murray Copyright (c) 2018 by Aneko Press