MinivanLife We have been car camping trip for 4 years We will share 10 reasons why we like car camping. 1. not bound by time Car camping is not as comfortable as a hotel But no reservation or checkout restrictions. Make the best use of time is a big advantage. 2. It's fun like a secret base. Small but somehow cozy space Surrounded by my favorite things Go wherever I want That alone is exciting. I will use the frozen hamburgers I made yesterday. Spend it all? Yeah, I'll put it on bread. Oh, and Lettuce Mayonnaise OK? I'm going to make breakfast. Looks good Hahaha I messed up... I'll try again Please. Haha Good! Oh, the water is boiling. Looks delicious. Done! Sandwiches made with leftovers I'll take it Tastes better than I expected! Really? Good. Thank you for the food 3. Time can be used effectively When you want to go fishing early in the morning or see the sea of clouds You can stay at your destination the day before. You can also avoid traffic jams by traveling late at night Looks like rain all day today 4. Private space When working or making a phone call No need to worry about what others think. Especially recommended for the type of person who likes to stay indoors. Indoor type The type that wants to do it in a cafe. I always equipped with enough electricity for work and cooking. My back started hurting after sitting for so long 5. You can sleep anywhere A truly moving bed! Especially useful when driving long distances Only the toilet is a hassle I'll chase you! To get foodstuffs and take a shower. First, go to a gas station. He is concerned about the location of the refueling hose. 6. Save on accommodation costs Realistically speaking, this would be the best advantage It can take a shower in an Internet cafe for less than 300 yen. For a long trip in Japan, the best way was to stay in the car. I'll cook dinner. Oh, I forgot to put that in. That's right. Wait a minute. OK! This is the one I just bought. Today make a snack for drinks I got this when I returned to my hometown for a car inspection. It's marbled meat! Thank you..! 7. A variety of local cuisine can be enjoyed. Fresh ingredients from markets can be prepared and eaten on the same day. Cooking your own food is cheap and tasty. Butter A small fireplace makes one dish. I'll make butter corn You can also cut it by hand Huh~ There's a hole in this bag. She spilled the corn juice. Like the Japanese Islands She spilled it like the shape of the Japanese archipelago. Indeed, it's shaped like the Japanese archipelago. Haha See! This Kyushu location is also correct. It's too small! It is the position of Okinawa when shown in the weather forecast Do you understand? I understand. Haha I have to go to the laundromat tomorrow. Spinach I boiled last time. 8. No destination required I enjoy the unusual feeling of spending time in a car When this camper was finished, I was staying in the car in front of my house Hanging around with no destination is also a good thing It's meat you don't normally get. high flame This is really cute When I saw this design, it was love at first sight. The color matches this car so well. Throw in! I'll leave it here for now. Butter corn doesn't heat up very well Are you still doing it? Haha Yeah It's so hot It is the season to use fan. cool Are they available at the same time? Excellent. Looks delicious It smells so good. It's done! Thank you. I'm going to get a beer! Cheers It's been a while since I've had a drink in the car. Delicious... 9. You can have dinner and drink anywhere. It would be fun to buy some local delicacies and have a drink. Tasty I'll try this again. Oh, is it subtle? It couldn't warm up. haha Tastes like butter soy sauce, so no problem. You shouldn't cook with candles. haha I'll eat up. Thank you for the food! Power was 92% earlier. Now 49%. I used 800W-900W induction for 20-30 minutes I think I can use it for a whole day. Nice to meet you from now on. You have to turn off the candle first. Clear skies today. Anker Solix C1000 Portable Power Station was used for this time. I really liked this one, so I'll introduce it to you. This is a portable battery from Anker. It's a Anker Solix series batteries. First, cigarette socket output Two Type-C 100W and 30W are available Two Type-A 6 outlets AC output rated at 1500W You can use up to 2000W appliances Warranty up to 5 years The part I like best is still the design. Also, I like the color of the lights. That orange color. The upper part is flat so you can put things on it. The cup is empty. It's rated for 1500W at this size. That's great. Yeah, easy to hold! Can be charged from electrical outlets and solar panels. You can also charge from a cigarette lighter socket It's a very nice day today You can also check it on the app. 79W, 80W The solar panels are 100W, so it's generate enough power. And this one can be fully charged in 58 minutes. Amazing Less than an hour! Let's give it a try. I'll use the outlet here. How many watts? 1009W 0.6 hours, until fully charged About 36 minutes? Just right! What? We'll see how it goes. I looked and it's already 93%. 10 minutes left Really fast charge! Check out the details of this battery in the overview section. Yes! 10. lots of new scenery to see Sometimes I wake up in the morning and there is a spectacular view in front of me. Well, I forced myself to put it into 10 pieces. This is why we like car camping. Thank you for watching!