Get out of the way Take Ke'er to sit Put all feel Ahhh Imperial criminal Liang Fenfang won oh yeah i miss you one two three four Go fast No, these weirdos are already getting scared. As long as we hold on You can escape by taking a break. No A family of three together I'm afraid none of them will survive. Listen to me Take Quill with you Phoenix thorn can save the lives of you and your child. Xingyue is a trustworthy person Xiong Er Live well Take good care of our Kun'er Go fast Choi Myung-soo ran away. Senior We are brothers I don't want to kill you Just give me the Buddha's Light Magnetic Spectrum I'll let your family go. Even if I die I won't give you Go see the principal. how you reach Stars and Moon Stars and Moons Stars and Moons Grandpa, no need Sister-in-law and uncle, come on! Uncle brother, come quickly Ah, Master, throw it away. ah Ah, male and female A plump and strong girl Hurry up, ma'am. Madam, Madam, he, he He passed away ah Go fast Go! Official official Go, go, go! Where is Kun 2? My Kun 2 Where is my Kun 2? Don't worry, Kun'er Don't worry, Kun'er Kun'er, he is very good. Kun'er, he is very good. I've asked the servants to feed him and put him to sleep. sister in law What happened to your family? What about Brother Fa? Follow Follow Why Be careful and slow down. Quick, quick, quick Take the knife. Take the knife. good Be gentle and careful Don't break the fire. Burn it slower. Good Hey, control it. Control it. Hold on. good Add points and add points again Be gentle. Rain, rain, rain, rain, rain, rain Ah, rain, rain Master A Kun You are here The Chancheng Word Competition is about to start Have you finished the lyrics for the competition? Not yet, Master. But don't worry I will definitely do it by then. Hey, brother, wake up You are stupid. You always do other people's work. Xiaofei, right? Xiaofei, Xiaofei, here comes What's wrong with you? Why are you so old and sleepy? Brother Qian was willing to help me carry it. Right, Brother Kun? Brother, it's okay. It doesn't matter if I take one more. What's wrong? You are so talkative. Hey, Afei Master It's really difficult Master, is this the new glaze you developed? The master is so beautiful father Master you Master If you take this ceramic to a contest of words You will definitely win. What do you know? bend until it is whole, bend until it is straight You only see the colorful Little do we know that new words are unstable There are still flaws If you show off, you will fail. There are still old people in the word competition You all listen No one is allowed to tell me about the new words for burning paper Did you hear that? Why I heard it. I heard it. I heard it. I heard it. Get to work Oh, good, good Ah Qing and Ah Kun, you two Clean up these broken pieces for me. Let's find a deserted place to bury him. Good Spirit Let's go It's Dad What are you laughing at? Brother, you say master Why would you smash the newly fired porcelain? Buried again? The master must have his reasons for doing this. But I feel like the master has always treated us like children Obviously the newly fired porcelain is better than the old one But I still have to take the old porcelain to participate in the competition There must be something wrong with this Almost there. What are you doing Master Niang fired a new ceramic today It's exactly the same as the Buddha statue in our house. But he threw him down immediately. Why? My mother always taught you to protect yourself Keep your nose out of other people's business Your master has his own ideas. Studying what you should study Don't ask if you shouldn't ask Have you finished reading? Is the ceramic fired? You have to work harder to get a wife. Go study hard, eh? Why ah It's okay. It's okay. Stop now, don't chase me Are you okay? Mom, I'm fine. Too bad he ran away. What's going on? What happened, sir? Master, just now when the young master and I were in the back garden Was ambushed The martial arts is very powerful The boxing is weird I don't know which sect it is from. What is coming is coming fuck you Sun Tongjiao is really you I don't want you to hide your head I will make you die clearly. Choi Young-woong You're not dead good Brother, good fortune comes naturally Just a minor skin injury. Just rest for two or three days. Brother Han If it weren't for Brother An's timely action today I'm afraid Sun's life is in danger. I will never forget Brother An's kindness. Martial artist Urgent It's part of my job. Brother, you are too polite. Uh, that woman just now was quite skilled. His moves are deadly In addition to life It's a blood feud. this You went to kill Sun Tengjiao yes Sun Tengjiao is the one who betrayed me I could have killed him. I don't know where this expert came from. Hurt me Sister-in-law, such a big thing Why didn't you discuss this with me beforehand? I, Master An, will not hide anything from you. Sun's old romantic picture A moment of urgency This woman's wrong love Brother Sun, this is really a romantic sin. Sorry to make you laugh I really have no face to see anyone, Brother Sun I was thinking that too. I want to ask my friends in the government to help me say congratulations. But you see he is so strong If you hadn't been in time Hey, it's okay. Brothers of my own family Brother Sun, is it good? My brother If you can stay in Foshan for a few more days I'm so grateful You see, you're seriously injured. I'll get a doctor for you right away. No, no, don't supervise others. Then I'll call A Kun back. Don't tell him If he knew He will avenge me. He is too impulsive And Sun Tengjiao knows I live here I should leave now. No no no sister-in-law I have arranged a place for you to stay outside. You rest for two days. Otherwise, the meridians will be damaged. That would be troublesome. Two days later you It's not too late to leave. My Jiang College is a big name in Foshan I, Duan Ding's Sun Tengjiao, dare not mess around Just two days. I'll leave as soon as I'm done. All right They're in there. Actually It is rare to see girls practicing martial arts in Guangdong and Guangxi. Oh, what about me? It's quite special Why? Because my dad is awesome. My father is a martial arts expert in Guangdong and Guangxi No one can beat him Famous Yes, I obey. Hurry up, stop Dad, why are you here? Qinglong, why are you here? Sister Dad, Save Me The Trapped Child is Courageous Let my daughter go Ah Laohei Your daughter's life is valuable. Or is our life more valuable? Of course my daughter's life is valuable. Two roads First, let us mother and son escape unscathed Second, Miss An died without a complete body. Let go of the junior sister Dad, I'm so scared Can't leave Walk Don't worry, I'm here. They can't run away Fat girl, you go first. No, you have to tell me what happened. Shao Lan Hua Qiang You better think about it first Maybe I can help. Thank you for just now Kun'er, let's go. Liang Kun You keep me ah God Why you God let you live ten more years I've treated you and your son well. Shen Mingxiu, come back to the government office with me Okay Why I'll go with you But you have to let my son go. Liang Kuan was just a baby 18 years ago Okay, Captain Du. Don't make the same mistake over and over again. You traitor I want your life Crying I curse you to have no offspring. ah Qingluan Qingluan Qingluan Daughter Daughter Listen to me explain it to you. I just found out That woman was assaulted by the Tianjin Society. I don't listen I don't listen I don't want to hear you. Don't tell me. Dad, I don't want to talk to you anymore. I don't want to see you anymore in my life. I don't want to hear you say What is your relationship with them? Why are you so angry? You tell dad? You don't tell Dad. How would Dad know? Go Go Go Oh, my daughter, go away. Hey Come here quickly Stop, is there anyone? No one knows where to jump The electricity is so high that it drops I'm sure he won't survive. Villager Show is dead anyway Let's go back and report. Let's go, go, go, go. Hey, this big brother I want to know where this place is. How to get to Guangzhou City? This is already within Guangzhou. To get to the city, you have to walk along this hillside. Then turn around and keep going. When you meet someone on the street, you can continue to ask. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Ahhh Hey, sir, please take care. Hey, sir, you are here. Hey, please come in, please come in Sir, let me come. Hey, put it down. Thanks Look at it What do you want, sir? Please prepare a clean room for me. Okay, anything else? Uh, a pound of cake A pound of beef Hey, send it upstairs. with you How can I be so stupid? I can't even carry a bag. Ahhhh Oh no! Junior Do you care so much about whether we win or lose? Well, you can't beat me anyway. We'll compare again next time Hey, where's that stupid boy? Amitabha Bold Thief broad daylight Bright and clear world Rob a fainted person What's your reason? broad daylight This is clearly a dark and windy night. I tell you Don't mind your own business, bald ass Otherwise I'll kill you Amitabha You deserve to be beaten for speaking such outrageous words. Hahahaha Hey silly boy Hey, it's you again Hey, where are you going? Ah Amitabha It seems that the donor's injuries have almost healed. You can sit up by yourself. Hahahaha where is this? Master, were you the one who saved me? I can only recall that two people were dueling last night One person's cruelty to another I want to go and rescue But I was knocked unconscious just after I got there. Where did this two-person duel come from? Old monk begging for alms I saw you fainted at the foot of the mountain. Monks are compassionate I will carry you back to the temple. Where did these two people come from to duel? Your mind Not awake yet My baggage alright What is your name? My name is Jueyin oh You drink the medicine in a while. Take a good rest I'm going to prepare the meal. Thank you Master The master is still working Still working Is there anything wrong? Aren't we having dinner? You're not hungry? Hey, I'm not hungry. Are you hungry? A bit hahaha Donor, there is no such thing as free food in this world, haha Why Okay, I'll come. Hey, the strength is quite high Hey, you young people. The work is not sharp. Hey, look at how this soy milk is ground. Grind less pulp and live better Hey come I'll help you Hey, Master, how is it? Hey, not bad I have already polished three barrels. Not bad, not bad Hey, when can we eat? If I don't eat it, I won't be able to bear it. Hey, eating I've eaten them all haha What did you eat? Oh, you haven't eaten yet. Oh, look at my brain. I forgot to greet you. Donor There is a rule in our temple that we cannot eat after noon. Oh, this Let's go together tomorrow You eat it together. Hey, come here Grind and grind Hey hey hey Come on, come on, I'll help you grind it Come come come Oh, you young man. What's the point of working? Ah, come here Grind, grind, grind Keep grinding. Then grind I'll give you a spoonful of soup Hey, ok Use force ha Haha Get up, it's time to have breakfast Finally, I have food to eat Raw rice Waiting for you to do it Wait for me to do it Oh, don't you even know how to respect the old and love the young? You don't do it Should I, an old man, do it? Hey, go cook. But oh go snort Old monk Don't you know it's dangerous to rush out like this? What's wrong? Can't you see I'm practicing? Ah, Master is also a martial artist. No wonder you're so upset. Yeah No water to drink What does it have to do with me? Go get some water Ah go This silly boy has a good foundation. hey-hey Like a martial arts material Hey, there's water to drink. Aqui Why is there no water? water Lao Shang What's wrong It's okay, it's okay. I'm fine. But this bucket It can't be used anymore You have to use that bucket. Who are you? What are you doing here? Hey, are you here to become a monk? kill kill Where are the people? Where are the people? Donor, who are you looking for? What did you say? Come here to kill people Who are you killing? I think you made a mistake. Hey, talk to me Oh Hello I'm telling you This is Nengren Temple No one I live here with an old man. Could you be looking for the wrong person? You won't Hey, did you find the wrong person? Why did you come here to kill people? Oh I'm talking to you. You kicked the door down just now and I didn't say anything to you yet This This old monk He will kill I don't usually have any grudges against anyone. Why did you kill him? Do you know how to kill him? Hello, I'm talking to you. Don't pay attention to me Junyin Do you know Jazz? Jueyin, how do you know him? Hey, what's your relationship with him? I'm talking to you. Why are you ignoring me? You are such an impolite person. What's your relationship with him? Say it I didn't kill you last time. Today I will fulfill your wish. Come What the hell is this old man doing? Beating people randomly Oh, here comes another one Two of them went together I never bully the elderly. You forced me to do this. Liang Kun brought you some food Don't beg for food from now on. Uh, not me I understand but Hey Hey, are you okay? Why didn't you tell me? This old man is so awesome. I don't need to say this, I understand him Yeah hey yeah Oh, are you okay? Two insignificant disciples of the Heng Sect This is the etiquette you use to entertain your junior brother. It turns out you guys are less verbose. It turns out that he will let you down. Come on monk, come on monk Both are monks Come on, Bearded Monk! Come on, Bearded Monk! Come on, Bearded Monk! Come on, Bearded Monk! ah Brother Beard, come on! come on Come on, come on Why haven't you called yet? Premium Packaging It is definitely possible to get what You can't beat me anyway. Do you want to say more Ahhh Wow Master Master Master What's this That's Iron Sand Palm Iron Sand Palm Hey, Master, you know Kung Fu And the kung fu is so powerful You silly boy Not only does he know Kung Fu, And I don't know how much better than you are. This iron sand palm It's really amazing It seems that my junior brother's martial arts has improved a lot. Why would your junior brother want to harm you? He just wanted to find me to despise martial arts. Didn't he say he wanted to kill you? Yeah, swords don't have eyes. Even if I despise martial arts Murder by the culprit and murder by accident That's a common thing Anyway See you later, my junior brother You two just avoid it. You have all experienced his martial arts just now. You two can practice for another ten or eight years. Not his opponent. He is your junior. Then he is also a monk. Are you a little short-sighted? A monk's junior fellow is of course a monk. My junior brother is a monk Dharma name: Wuyin We both became monks in Southern Shaolin Temple since we were young. Hey, Wuyin, this person I have no interest in practicing Buddhism. But he is very obsessed with martial arts Eighteen Martial Arts Seventy-two unique skills He wants to learn everything I want to practice everything What's the result? He ended up with a poor academic performance What about Mu Yin? Aim too high The inner strength is far inferior to mine Every martial arts written examination He will definitely win. So of course he was not convinced. So the moves become more and more unfeeling. Even if it hurts him, Oh I see This person must have cheated later. My father has been traveling around the world since he was a child. He told me There are three most terrible people in this world. The first person who doesn't want money The second shameless person The third type is the people who don't care about their lives. This kind of person wants to achieve his own goals Often do everything possible Dare to use any tricks I guess this doesn't fit. Definitely expelled from the sect That's right Wu Yin later took a written test. Using his homemade hidden weapon He was expelled from Shaolin After he returned to secular life, he was called He Bu Le He still goes up the mountain Learn from a master Every time there is progress You will definitely come back to the mountain to find me again That's it for the written test We have been together for so many years. Hey I can't drink this. That's too cruel. Don't underestimate the power of hatred Just any hater Must self-destruct first alright Just now, we had a fight. What about you two? I also saw Now Let's cook I'm hungry Huh Do you still owe me a favor? Why why I just saved you. It seems like you were the first to make the move just now. I asked him to come so late If I hadn't acted in time Stand up Sword Drawing I understand. Let's go cook. Alas, alas, Master Over here, over here, hey hey hey hey hey Cool down. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Sit, sit, sit, ah, ah, ah Master Sit down I made something delicious for you today. Look here, ouch ouch You Amitabha How do you kill? Hey Master Don't make a fuss You sit down I'll tell you slowly Well, actually These are all vegetarian. What about this chicken? It's made of pumpkin. This braised pork is made of tofu This fish is made of radish These are vegetarian Looks alike, right? Hey Master Come and try my cooking Let me try it. Let me try it. How does it taste? Mm, it tastes good. Good craftsmanship Hey, not bad, right? Come try this again. Um Don't say anything. It really tastes like braised pork Haha Master Do you know what braised pork tastes like? It's okay. It's okay. Come come come Master, please have some tea. master Master, please accept Liang Kun's greetings I hope the master can accept me as his apprentice. Hahahaha Okay hahahaha Okay, then are you willing to take me as your apprentice? Would you like to teach me Kung Fu? Of course you can, hahahaha Ah, it's so simple. No test required What kind of audit? Well, no need It's fate that you came Yeah Come and eat Come come come hahaha Fate, come and eat fish When will Master teach me Kung Fu? Right now, right now Is it now? Uh-huh How does the master practice? How to practice Ah now Eat now Go up now My master made me do the heavy lifting on the muddy road since I was a kid. My horse is fine. Yeah Hi, Master. master Master, please don't, please don't, please No no Master, hurry up! Oh hahahaha Oh, look. Let me take a look I just kicked it lightly. You're just falling on your face. This is the horse stance you practiced. Why are you talking nonsense in front of me? stand up What are you waiting for? I'm waiting for you to teach me Kung Fu You silly boy You don't type out what you know. How do I know how far you've come? How can I teach you? good Then I will do a set of Fu Hu Quan before sleeping. Let me show you Yeah It is indeed a good material for martial arts training Hey Master What are you doing here again? You still need to eat? Who said I want to have dinner with you? Look, there's not much firewood left. Remember to bring back some more firewood later. Um This water is not full. Remember to fill it up before lunch. Hey, look at you Why does the soy milk stop grinding halfway? Go grind soy milk Master, I I'll let you sharpen your sword and gun. I've finished my practice. You don't give me any advice. Aren't you going to teach me Kung Fu? What am I pointing at? What you just did was not a punch at all. I'm not punching, am I? Nothing So what should I do? You should work. Remove edamame from soy milk snort Yeah, the boy is good. The work is quite neat. ah I practiced this every day when I was 9 years old Are you still afraid? No, I asked you to carry two buckets. From the creek all the way back to No. 4 Middle School Don't stop midway Hey, take a look. Why is there mud at the bottom of this bucket? Well, you must have taken advantage of it. Cutting corners Master, I have ideas and strategies. Strategy hahaha Ouch! Young people nowadays Love leisure and hate work I can't bear even the slightest bit of bitterness. I can't bear the hardship I can't bear the hardship I can't bear the hardship If I couldn't bear the hardship, I would have died long ago. Hey, how old are you? What kind of suffering can you have? My father died when I was 3 years old My mother was killed by someone else Right in front of me I saw it with my own eyes On the same day My most respected master was also killed They also framed me Say I did it I have no home now I can't even quit my brother and sister. This isn't suffering. I'm here every day Master, am I easy? You came here alone Eventually I will go alone Hey Master What's the point of you saying this now? Why are you talking so much nonsense? So what do you think? Of course I want revenge. Go get revenge. I now I'm going to take revenge now. Yeah, it has nothing to do with me. Go ahead. well good good Hey Liang Kun Liang Kun Hey Hey Liang Kun Liang Kun Why are you going? I went down the mountain for revenge Who are you looking for revenge? Sun Tengjiao Why Sun Tengjiao Start now Your business is my business Wait for me Come on, hurry up Good catch. Hey, put it here. Oh good Be careful. Okay. Xiaojia Be careful Qiankun I tried every possible means to find you You brought it to the door yourself snort What are you doing here? Nonsense, I'm here to save you I don't need your help to take revenge I Go, go, go Boss Sun Master An, do you know that he is a wanted criminal of the imperial court? I don't care what he is. I have to get my daughter out of here safely today. Brother An, you misunderstood. Your daughter hit me. I didn't hit him. If my daughter has offended Please give An some face today Leave them alone Oh, sorry. I will come to apologize someday. Well Farewell Hey, don't walk so fast. Don't run so fast. Hey, don't walk so fast. Why are you walking so fast? Hey, stop following me. I saved you You yelled at me I don't need your help If I don't save you, you will be beaten to death Look at you hurt like this No father and no mother If I don't take care of you, who will? I can take care of myself Amitabha master Girls are meant to be hurt You don't know how to be grateful to the girl who just saved you And said so many hurtful things Do you think you are right? But I can't kill Song Tengjiao I can't get over it. Revenge Revenge You only want revenge? Now You Know Revenge is not an easy thing, right? Why is this Some have names Some have no names That's because some of them are dead. I didn't even have time to ask their names This is a scholar who came to roast Amitabha This is a businessman who goes to the provincial capital to do business. Amitabha This is a family that brought the elderly and children on an outing. They were all killed by bandits Serve in the wilderness These people Some are illiterate Some are well-read in poetry and books Some are penniless Some are very wealthy In the end, different paths lead to the same destination They are all buried here Do you think they are happy or miserable? Died so tragically So pitiful Of course it's bitter. Do they know suffering? Die or die I don't think I know. Since I don't know How can it be bitter? I think they are suffering You think they died a painful death? But what about you? You are still alive How can it be bitter? From nothing Return to nothingness Everything is cause and effect Bodhi is everywhere Ami Amitabha The child has found his enemy, Sun Teng, and saved him. But I can't avenge you now. But you don't have to worry, Dad. I am with the master now. A master called me I study hard Add ten days I will definitely avenge you. and Turning back, it's you Oh, Master. Master, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey Master, let me tell you I worked very hard today. Mmm, it must be delicious. Alas, alas, Master Eat more, eh? How's the master? Hey Master I'm telling you Time flies I have been up the mountain for some time. Yeah, very good. But you didn't teach me martial arts. No? No, I have. Is there? Yes. Hey, what do you say is peerless martial arts? Hey, it's just like the peerless martial arts described in the books. Oh why don't you teach me You want to learn unique martial arts Of course. Okay, follow me. Good Hey Master Hey, Master. This unique martial art is hard to practice, right? It's not difficult to practice on the first day. It's very simple There are also simple exercises Yes, protect yourself. Protect yourself Then I'm leaving Hey Master What should I do if you leave? Huh, you didn't understand. Protect yourself. Protect yourself Remember to protect yourself. Prince Captive I practiced the Fuhu Quan. I practiced the Fuhu Quan. Ah Kuan, you're back. Ahhhh Ahhh You let the tiger chase me Are you going to teach me martial arts or let me die? Are you dead? If I die, will I come back alive? So I didn't ask you to die. Even if it's not to send me to death, it's not to teach me martial arts, right? A-kun, you learned the Fu Hu Quan. I asked you to go to Fuhu Isn't this learning for practical use? The Tiger Subduing Fist is just the name of a boxing technique. I'm not Wu Song. Okay, okay. It seems that you are overly frightened. Still in shock Just take some medicine Here comes Xiaoer Jingfeng San Remember to take it once in the morning and evening You learned the tiger boxing That's a kind of Hung Fist It comes from what the young master learned from me It can be said to be a continuation of the same lineage. There is a formula for getting started in this martial arts school. It's called &quot;Unlearned Boxing&quot; First learn to fight Never hit anyone Learn to be beaten first Hehe, you will understand it slowly. Ahahahahaha Kun, remember to take your medicine. Hahahahahaha Ahhh Ah Kun What are you doing, Master? We can't play like this anymore today. Why Are you in a bad mood today? No Isn't it always like this? You don't have to chop wood today. Follow me to a place Take you to relax Where are you going? You'll know when you get there. Come come come come come come Master, take me What are you doing here? Doing nothing? No work today Water outage No Are you going to teach me new moves? That's not it either So what are you doing here? Do nothing Um Close your eyes You're screwing me again Why do you think so bad of me? I promise I won't hit you. Monks do not tell lies If you say you won't fight, then don't fight. Close your eyes Akunyi, what did you hear? You speak And what else Birdsong Wind The sound of water is external. Can you hear yourself? How do you hear yourself? Two eyes let you see five colors Two ears let you hear five tones Let you feel the sounds and colors of the world But can you hear yourself? Only you can't see or hear anything in the world You can observe yourself Take care of yourself Someone is alive Bitter and nauseous Five-tone confusion The hardest thing to see clearly is yourself You can see and hear everything You can't see yourself Dakun Meditation can help you calm your mind Help you cultivate your mind and cultivate your character Dakun Don't make the same mistake that my junior brother can't make. Gone Master Hey I'll let you sit. You're not here to sleep. If you meditate, you're sleeping. Why didn't I let you sleep in the first place? I don't want you to come and meditate. Keep humming Why Aqui ah oh Master A Kui Aqui, wake up! Wow, what time is it now? Why don't you go fetch water? Master, I'm already practicing. These Zama There is no need to practice the basic skills of carrying water anymore. Oh, you think you've practiced well now, right? Well, come on. You stand up straight now. Slap the wooden stake with your palm Now try to stand firm. Use the forward momentum of the horse stance to slap the wooden stake again Wow This Master, I don't understand why I am so powerful. Remember that horse stance is the foundation I want you to get married Horse stance waist and horse integration Arm from the first With general support Combined with the forward momentum of the horse stance, focus on attacking a little Your power will naturally increase several times. Uh-oh So that's how it is Hmm, go fetch some water. Hey Master What does this have to do with carrying water? It's okay, but I'm thirsty. All right daughter My child now either practices martial arts or works every day. I feel much better than before. You don't have to worry Although sometimes the master is eccentric But he is a martial arts expert If you stay with him, you will definitely learn advanced kung fu This way you can get down the mountain early. I've got justice for you. I also hope that my parents in heaven will bless me. The child can finish his studies and go down the mountain as soon as possible. Mom, today is your death anniversary. I specially prepared your favorite chicken drumstick for you. Hey Dad You can eat it too. Oh my god If you don't eat it, give it to me. What's your favorite chicken drumstick? All right I haven't had dinner with my parents for a long time. Then let's have dinner together today. Yo, it's delicious ah master master You are practicing Five Elements Boxing. That's right. I spent a night pondering Where to find it again? The beast is here Who do you call a beast? I did not mean that What do you mean? I let you run Lord, yeah I found Liang Kun's whereabouts What? He is in the Nengren Temple on Baiyun Mountain. So what are you waiting for? Hurry up and gather people to follow me up the mountain You all listen to me. Don't act rashly there. You must follow my lead. remember You must not harm his life. Got it. Master, what are we doing here? Ah Kuan, I want to ask you something. On the way I heard there is a person named Sun Tengjiao I ask everyone about you. Do you know him? Of course I know him He is the murderer of my father. And my real brother Is he here? A Kun You can't act rashly With the effort you have now I want to seek revenge on him. You're just going to die in vain Aren't you letting your parents down by doing this? But he killed me Don't be visible anymore You should save your life right now. I'll take you here. I just want you to avoid it. Make sure there is no abnormality You go up the mountain and return to the temple No, I'll go with you. Oh, I am the only old monk. They won't do it. If you go There will inevitably be a war Walk Quick, quick, quick Let's go, Master. Walk Old monk May I ask you about this temple? Has anyone come here named Liang Kun? Liang Kun Ah Wei Is your common name Liang Kun? Um, no How about you? no What about you? Yeah Me neither They are not old monks. Don't act with me anymore. If my men find out I don't talk to you in this manner. Sir, we searched. Except for a few of them There's really no one else. No clothes or sundries? Yes, really not. Monks do not burn you What are you doing Ahhhh Ahhhh The donor is pure in Buddhism Why are you doing this? You can't lie to me. Master, why don't you take action? The master wants to take action He's faster than the master. Are you sure it's Nengren Temple? Things that are not Walk I'll spare you this time. Old stuff Master It hurts, Master. Amitabha That old monk doesn't know martial arts at all. Where is the expert you mentioned? Oh, this, this Liang Kun The night he escaped was really dark and windy. But I did see a bald monk Rescued him. You stupid Which monk among you is not bald? Useless things go master master How are you? ah Hi, this is okay. Hehe, Sun Tengjiao's martial arts Far worse than my junior brother, hahahaha So these three are Hey, this is a new lay disciple. What about these two little monks? The abbot from Huayun Temple Let them come and learn from me. I didn't expect that on the first day, Ouch, it hurts so much. Why Do you know why Buddha asked us to share incense? have no idea That's because when you burn incense, the incense goes out by itself. The fragrance of sandalwood Pass your fragrance to others But forget yourself This is the spirit of self-sacrifice that Buddha taught us. You were beaten too. I, I, I am sacrificing myself to prepare for others Sacrifice yourself to prepare for others? I am a Buddhist I also learn martial arts. How come you get beaten? Hey The two told them that these three junior brothers No entry to this sect What is the formula? Learn to catch horses before learning to fight Before you learn to hit someone, learn to be hit first. Well, first learn to be beaten Hey, did you understand? Ah, today is your first lesson. Learning to be beaten Get beaten Hahaha oops Hahahaha three little brothers Yang Kun I'm sorry I'm really sorry I must learn martial arts as soon as possible. Go down the mountain to seek revenge on Sun Tengjiang Alas, I accepted you as my apprentice. Because you are a A martial arts prodigy This is why I broke the principle of not passing on martial arts But facing today's events You still don't cherish The sacrifices those people made for you But he only wanted to learn martial arts and take revenge Haven't you let them down? When will the cycle of revenge end? I just want you to learn martial arts Cultivating the Mind through Martial Virtue Let go of your desire for revenge Like those who sacrificed for you Your parents There are three junior brothers who took the beating for you. They never ask for anything in return from you. But when the night is quiet I can't forget how my mother died. Let it go. I'm not forcing you to let it go now. I also know it takes time Liang Kun, I just want to ask you one thing I want to teach you everything I have. Are you willing to accept it completely? Whether it is martial arts or here As long as you are willing to teach I listen to you in everything I would like to I am willing to do the same. All willing All willing Ah ha ha, that's good Eat haha Eat hahahaha Eat eat hahaha Good disciple Hello, Kaokao Let you take the test First, recite a set of Hongmen's introductory formulas to me Not learned boxing First learn to fight Not learned to hit people Learn to be beaten first You have to remember The practice of Hung Quan is derived from the forms of birds and beasts You should practice a set of Hongquan now. Birds and beasts don't need to learn anything It can defend itself and attack This shows that self-defense and aggression are actually natural. Tiger walks vigorously to strengthen muscles and bones The fierce tiger of Jianli comes down the mountain with ferocious force The tiger catches the sheep swiftly and greedily Hejiang Lightweight Crossbow Archer The group of people guarding the bow He entered the bamboo forest and set up stakes Dragon Blood Charm What is liver function? Oolong spits out pearls to find river leopard Old dragon sheds horns and cuts the belt horse Tiger Shape Bone Training Leopard Strength Training Snake-shaped Qi Refining Crane Alchemy Dragon Body Refining We just want to restore nature through exercise This is the original intention of bone refining Then you go down the mountain No matter what happens You must remember Let everything take its natural course People don't take action You don't take action Disciple follows the master's teachings Master I will definitely follow your teachings Just leave without worry Ahhhh