Hello. I'm Usui. I live in a micro apartment in Tokyo. This time, I will introduce my micro apartment. Here is a micro-sized entrance. This entrance has three locks on the door. (Why? ) The designer of this apartment may be a worrier. This is a mailbox. The landlord of this apartment does not allow making holes in the walls with nails. I installed this hook myself. This hook is installed using a stapler. This can be installed without drilling holes in the wall. This is a light switch. This is a remote control for the air conditioner. But I can also control the lights and air conditioner with my iPhone. I have just two pairs of shoes. Both are ASICS shoes. I like them because they are very comfortable to wear. I don't have a shoe cabinet or umbrella stand. I hang my jackets and shirts near the entrance. This hook was also installed using a stapler. All of my clothes are from a brand called WWS. WWS clothes are durable and machine-washable. They don't wrinkle, so there's no need for ironing. I only have the bare minimum of clothes. The fabric is different between my summer and winter clothes. Where do you think the rest of the clothes are stored? I'll tell you about that later. This is a circuit breaker. There's a place for the washing machine near the entrance. There are laundromats near this apartment. But I don't use laundromat. Because I'm lazy. I love this washer-dryer. How much is this washer-dryer? This washer-dryer has automatic detergent dispensers. This is a special detergent for drum washing machines. I pour it into the detergent tank. It automatically measures the amount of laundry and dispenses the necessary detergent accordingly. I use this washer-dryer every day. Because I only have a limited amount of clothing. It takes about 2 hours to wash and dry. Washing. Spin and drain. Drying. This washer-dryer has a heat pump, so the electricity cost is low. Finally, I clean the filter. This is a trash can. This is a Magiclean Wiper. In my micro apartment, I don't need a vacuum cleaner for cleaning. Do you think you need a laundry rack for this washer-dryer? Since I have a minimal number of belongings, I don't need a laundry rack. This is a bed from MUJI. I like its simple design. I store stationery and a scanner here. Also, I keep my capsule toy collection here. I store towels and clothes here. What's in that box? This apartment's internet connection is through cable TV. This is a Wi-Fi router. Internet speeds are good enough, although not fiber optic. My job is a university lecturer and consultant. I can work with just a laptop. This desk is a foldable desk. I can fold it and store it under the bed. This chair comes with a footrest. When I'm tired, I take a nap in this chair. If I sleep in the bed, I'll probably sleep until morning. I scan all paper documents and then throw them away. Because there's no space to keep documents in this room. I try to buy e-books instead of paper books. By the way, when I was a child, I had many belongings. Now, we live in a time when just one smartphone is enough. I think that in modern times, having the minimum number of belongings is enough. But I love paper books. I borrow books from the library every week. I watch movies on my laptop. Once, I tried to set up a projector here. This is a room thermometer. I put insulating film on the windows. This helps to maintain the room temperature. And it prevents condensation on the windows. The insulating film acts as a curtain. In summer, when a typhoon approaches, I close the shutter. It prevents the windows from breaking due to strong winds. This is an air vent. What is this? This is a floor storage compartment! This is an emergency backpack. It contains emergency food and supplies. I keep this book in my emergency backpack. DON'T PANIC! On a serious note, I believe humor is essential in difficult times. I store my clothes in vacuum-sealed bags and keep them in the floor storage. Vacuum packing makes storing clothing more compact. Right now, I store my winter coats and jackets under the floor. I don't rent external storage. All of my belongings are in this room. I don't cook. So, this is more of a washroom than a kitchen. I unplugged the induction cooktop. Toothpaste Toothbrush Tongue cleaner Dental floss Antiperspirant Skin lotion This is the exhaust fan. This is the switch for the exhaust fan and the light. A small sink. This is a cushion to prevent injuries. Tissues This is an electric shaver. I like it because it is small and simple. It is the latest model with five blades. This is the power button. It charges with a USB-C cable. This is a hairdryer. I installed this hook using a stapler as well. I keep bottled water here. There is no refrigerator in this room. There are many restaurants and convenience stores around this apartment. Convenience stores in Japan are open 24/7. You can buy food and drinks anytime. So there is no problem without a refrigerator. Maybe... This is my stock of daily necessities. These are sheets for the Magiclean Wiper. These are disposable chopsticks. In this box, I keep my medicine and a nail clipper. What is my diet like? Let me show you my typical day's meals. Breakfast at MOS Burger. I went to work at the university. Lunch at the university cafeteria. Coffee and snacks bought at the university store. Dinner is a ramen. Around this apartment, there are not only restaurants, but also libraries, gyms, and hospitals. Japanese minimalist Fumio Sasaki says in his book: "When your entire neighborhood is your floor plan, the possibilities will be endless." I was inspired by his way of thinking and became a minimalist. This is the switch for the light and the exhaust fan. This is the control panel for the water heater. I like to set the shower temperature to 40 degrees Celsius. This is the intercom. This is the micro-sized bathroom. This is an electric bidet seat remote controller. Japanese toilets are highly advanced technology. But I don't use it. This is a button that heats the toilet seat. Toilet paper storage! To me, toilet paper storage is very important. When I was in elementary school, there was a time when the toilet paper wasn't restocked in the school restroom. Since then, I've become obsessed with having a toilet paper storage. Stock of tissues. This is a hair spray. This is a toilet brush. After cleaning the toilet, I can flush the brush head down the toilet. These are cleaning wipes for the toilet. I can flush these wipes down the toilet after use. This bathroom door has a lock on it. If the zombies attack, I'm planning to lock myself in this bathroom and hide. This is a very small shower room. This is an all-in-one body shampoo. This can be used as shampoo, body soap, and face wash! It's very convenient. This is the exhaust fan. Shower temperature is 40 degrees Celsius (Yes, I mentioned this twice. ) By the way, what do you think of this furniture arrangement? Loft bed? Putting a loft bed in a micro apartment makes it feel very cramped. And the ceiling in this room is only 2.4 meters / 7.87 feet high. Hmm... Futon? A futon allows for efficient use of space. But folding up a futon every morning is a hassle (and I'm lazy). Hmm... Murphy bed? A Murphy bed is a great space-saving furniture. But you can't find Murphy beds in Japanese furniture stores. Murphy beds are not well known in Japan. Hmm... Foldable bed? Hmm... Sofa bed? Hmm... Hammock? Hmm... Sleeping bag? Hmm... In the end, I chose a MUJI bed. The simple design of the MUJI bed doesn't make the room feel cramped. I think the MUJI bed is the best fit for a micro apartment. You can place storage cases under the MUJI bed. How would you arrange the furniture in this room? Please let me know in the comments! So, how much is the monthly rent? For more information about my living expenses, please watch another video. I used to work for a large Japanese corporation. And I used to live in a regular-sized apartment. Why did I decide to live in a micro apartment? Well, I'll talk about that if I get the chance. Anyway, I absolutely love this micro apartment. Right now I am writing a book about my minimalist lifestyle and micro-apartments It's my dream to publish my own book someday. Hey Spidey, would you like to read my book? Thank you for watching until the end! If you want to watch more of my videos, please subscribe to my channel!