It's been 40 years The first time in the history You're just in awe, you want to but it is very difficult she's the only one You have to give Nadia a for the boom It was heroic, what she did, and the risks that she took. By the time when I got I think that was the only time when I had no fear. (LEGENDS LIVE ON: I don't think that kids I used to climb trees a lot and I was going to the highest was, &quot;You can't go there and I wanted to go there that it was exciting, and when I entered the gym I thought this is the place where I could do things Bela Karolyi and Marta were my I've worked with them when I was six, seven years old and I always say that because Bela and Marta at that particular time and it was just a happy I went out in the kindergarten to recruit young athletes &quot;Hey, who can do a cartwheel?&quot; Two little girls from behind, &quot;Yeah, we do, like to see it?&quot; These are the ones. &quot;we want to talk to you &quot;to being involved &quot;Yes, yes, we are going And that was the first time Physically she was very gifted and not quite that much which we had to work constant to make the skills The way she responded, she made 15 push-ups. I said, &quot;Where is this strength &quot;I made that 10.&quot; &quot;Yeah, but I want to do Unbelievable. I said, &quot;Yes, &quot;the one I dream to have.&quot; (NORMAN, OKLAHOMA) Hello. Hi, guys. Can we stick our nose in here Not a week goes by where some somewhere and say, &quot;I need to &quot;your wife was my biggest I meet people everywhere who about where they were and what it meant to them. She's become sport royalty, this icon quality about her She is an icon of the sport, she transformed the sport by creating And I remember one time I met and Nadia and I were standing and she said, &quot;Nadia, do you She said, &quot;When I saw &quot;it made me feel like I could &quot;if I just worked hard enough.&quot; When I left Romania and I was together with the that competed the Olympics I remember I said that I hope to win a medal and (MONTREAL 1976: WOMEN'S VAULT) (MONTREAL 1976: (MONTREAL 1976: UNEVEN BARS) My routine on the uneven bars, the first routine actually that was a compulsory routine. In the time when I was we had to do compulsory also, which is the same routine which is basically sounds kind But I think that my routine even though they were exactly I did something which is every little skill I add a little more amplitude, Usually I don't watch the because I'm able to on the basis So I landed and I thought I didn't even think about 10. I was hoping that I was going or something close to that... ..and just because I heard I turn around which is very confusing Prior to that Olympic Games, Omega, which was had said to the International &quot;Is there any reason why we &quot;on our scoreboards?&quot; And the people &quot;No, nobody's ever going to So the only score to even approximate that The reaction of the crowd The announcer was saying, &quot;Ladies and gentlemen, &quot;of the sport, a perfect 10.&quot; Nobody expected that from us, nobody really wanted to pretend that we are expecting but then, they came out from I said, &quot;Yes, that's great.&quot; Next event, on the beam. Balance beam is probably one of in gymnastics, and you cannot hide a ..but it was also my favourite I'm not sure why. (MONTREAL 1976: BALANCE BEAM) Beautiful performance, back and forth, Solid like a rock and with her She was already displaying When I saw the score of the I knew there was a 10. All my 10s were uneven bars, uneven bars, balance beam, and forth during four days Later on when six more times we started to get used to it. &quot;Yeah, there it is again, A perfect 10 became absolute I don't remember prior to Nadia anybody saying perfection In our execution but I don't think the As close as you get, &quot;No, maybe this was wrong,&quot; so it is very difficult - but she did impact the whole so everyone still strives Actually I didn't know there I didn't know I was I knew I was good, but I didn't If you are able to put your I think that's the definition After so many, many, many hours you kind of know what has to go when you're up there and you that everybody and you know that you have this there is no redo. It was just like everything at that particular time. I think that I was in a great When we landed in Bucharest, I think there were 10,000 I went back in the plane why are so many people So I didn't understand I mean, I knew but I didn't understand that... Did everybody have time Thousands and thousands of waiting for us I absolutely could not and I seen that there was, or Ceausescu Gymnast, Nadia Comaneci. I met Ceausescu because we did a big and they awarded us. I mean, it's an honour, I am too young to understand For everybody it is an honour to be honoured by the president These are some of the photos Bill Clinton, George Bush. We went to a few functions and also at the White House This is a golden disc after the Olympics in '76. This music was used in Romania when a television crew and they were looking that would fit the slow motion and they picked this music which had a different Now it's called Nadia's Theme - and because that show Barry De Vorzon, who wrote from the original (OLYMPIC GAMES MOSCOW 1980) Pressure? No, I had no pressure but I did have some when I was I wanted to be the best, because I knew When I was 14 and a half I was just a child that nobody what I'm coming from They learned that Going to the Olympics in 1980 I was an 18-year-old and I made a mistake at the which was my best event. I already knew that I was going I had to wait a little more and then that's what happened. It was a learning experience I ended up with two gold I mean, that's pretty good. Yeah, I could have done better So I put it in a bag Actually I knew that the 1980 basically my last I didn't see myself being I think that I accomplished I didn't even know what I was when I was done I think my idea Well, this is something is the entire Starting from 1956, everything that's happened all the way to today is here. I believe that this nobody has anything This is the one from when I was It's good to have them, I mean, you can see that some because it goes back and it's awesome. I think as the time goes, because I didn't realise that this was such a big deal. We have a gymnastic school, actually the gymnastic school before I even arrived. It's about almost 1,500 kids and probably 30 coaches Look at that, pretty darn good. It's kind of funny because globally than I am why isn't it the Nadia Comaneci And maybe we'd be better off but, you know, we already had as it was the Bart Conner We've already had at least from our programme here get full scholarships at from Stanford to Syracuse Hi, Karen. These are the grips that we that I told you about, for little, tiny little kids And here are some of the and over there are all the that Karen is making for us now because gymnasts and colourful leotards That's a new pattern I see, yeah, I like it. Yeah, that's nice, I can see it over there, yeah. So all the fabrics Cool stuff. I don't know what people think I found out that I'm watched. Everybody carried the burden With the difficulty of making to be recognised and to be People at that time did not asking for their rights, They just make you disappear We were in a gymnastic tour and my coach and his wife and they stayed What I didn't like was what I've heard that I've got to travel to places So I understood that this will the end of my travelling, I didn't think that was fair, I have an opportunity and I'm going to do it. She had very little access about what was going on It was a tremendous leap of when she left Romania. By the time when I got I think that was the when I had no fear, and I think and a little bit insane to do something Go, you know, in the middle and maybe risking your life. It was like doing something not thinking I think that we were lucky that we didn't get shot I don't think about that right we made it all the way but sometimes I'm like, yeah, it was a big deal. She thought she was going but they wanted her out of the and so she went to Austria and then asked for asylum I had known Nadia and we but nothing and she's an important symbol and then we saw and then she was in Hungary well, maybe Then the next day I see and went to Austria and asked for political refugee because she showed up and said, and within hours they to the United States. So now she calls Bart, she really knows in the United &quot;Well, come on to Oklahoma I was like a lot of gymnastic who wanted to offer Well, I knew Bart from the time I knew him as a gymnast... ..but I reconnected with Bart and our manager now, and they were involved They had all these facilities, they were still doing and that's how I reconnected. I was doing gymnastics after I finished competing. When Nadia came to the US, along with my business partner, he said, &quot;Hey, give her a call, &quot;see if she wants to do some So I called her up and she &quot;I haven't done gymnastics in and I kind of finally talked and we did one or two shows and she started enjoying it and we started building When I first met Nadia, We actually met in Madison and I remember it distinctly because it happened to be and it was a meet It was a very important top athletes and she and I won the final on the final day together and we stood side by side and we held up these big silver that we won - because a photographer saw us &quot;Get a little closer together, &quot;on the cheek, it will make So I gave her a little kiss We were laughing at that time because both of them were so We were always joking, &quot;You guys, you would make &quot;Oh, no, no, Youth is innocence, Bart Conner is one of the so she could not have wound up Well, I think the fact that we We think alike and different which makes our connection Well, this is the office but Dylan, this is the office He is 10 years old Everything is in here. Every little thing from roller to candy machines to Pac-Man to anything you name, guns, Star Wars stuff, oh, and a photo of me. The important thing that we do All our work that we do to be has a great education and he's happy. One time he came he was four and a half. &quot;Mom, Dad, We didn't tell, you know, we did this and this He goes right. I like the feeling of because I know how bad and I know how difficult it is I like to see a happy face. I love to go back to Romania, actually I go back We created a clinic for ..where parents who can't when they are sick, It's not only kids, I am happy that I could help. Every sport says you should you should be the best. Nadia's name is coming up on every corner, on every mouth and everyone who loves first of all thinks about Nadia because she's representing You have to give Nadia, just and what she represented, a tremendous amount for the boom Growing up you always heard from Nadia, so you see the You want to replicate this and hopefully one day get a 10, and that's why she's the only The United States has been the in women's gymnastics and who would have ever We have pretty much dominated We look up to her so much and she strived us Gymnastics was a way for me It defined my life in a way what I would have done When I started, just because it was cool and just because I could do wouldn't let me do at home. So out of just finding a place I ended up going to and scoring the first That was not I don't know if somebody would say to me, &quot;You know that if you go to the &quot;you know, maybe you will be I'm like, what does he mean? So it just, it just happened. I just enjoy what I do and be happy that my family and be happy that I am able and represent gymnastics. Because every time and I meet with people I think my name you know, Nadia, (AFTER THE ROMANIAN REVOLUTION WAS ABLE TO RETURN TO ROMANIA (NADIA COMANECI WAS THE FIRST EVER TO RECEIVE A PERFECT 10) (NADIA TIRELESSLY CONTINUES TO TO ENSURE ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE IN ROMANIA AND THE USA)