Live from Singapore. where we dive deeper into the stories sharp analysis. impose additional tariffs on China, clamp down on migrants and illegal The dollar rises and Asian stocks drop 10% levy on Chinese goods and 25% on his We have a great lineup of voices and how global economy as well as markets. Neel Kashkari and co-director at the Development. with Bank of Singapore's Eli Lee. Group are being shrugged off by Prime We explore why it will be tough to Well, Trump is not president yet, but we are going to be as he roils the markets Trump says he will impose additional 10% all products from Mexico and Canada. clamp down on migrants and illegal drugs borders. sharp counter to hopes that he could second term. well. the reaction. Yeah, it's a bit of deja vu, right? And on the greenback, that's where the That reaction to those headlines out of And we're seeing the dollar resuming its dollar gauge at one point, the session And this is a reversal from the declines Trump's pick for treasury secretary. dollar come despite some of these dovish Kashkari. currencies of the US's top trading They are getting hot hit today as We saw the loonie at one point losing of the Canadian currency during Asia And I think it speaks to the sense that It's going to be about Trump for today, uncertainty about trade policy. effects volatility. last Trump administration we saw how the this was also this China trade spat kind hiking. uncertainty about how countries potentially, but this is what we're It's a sense of that currency selling That's showing up earlier in Chinese In a way, it's really interesting how we This was released and of course, to the earnings bracing for Trump and China's 20% away from those October peaks. maybe a bit of these China ETFs that Getting a lot of love today. Perhaps is a case of being oversold. For more on that Trump tariff news, correspondent, Stephen Engle. Yeah. Has linda. I mean, we got roiled by the the We're headline surfing here all morning, And the markets are obviously trading on from truth social that Donald Trump's volatile comments, shaking things up in We all know, of course, that Trump has soon as he becomes president again in But this has taken this a, you know, a he's now vowing if China does not take be, you know, the originator of fentanyl Mexico, he will slap on day one, January And essentially, he says we will be above any additional tariffs. Again, those 60% tariff increases that still potentially in play. Now, adding to the turmoil, is that in a platform, essentially saying he's also and the southern border and the northern drug inflows as well as illegal countries do not respond adequately to Now, we have heard already from the of Canada. essentially saying, of course, States have one of the strongest and it comes to trade and border security. to U.S. six. crude oil imports originated in Canada That's a key point, because 57% of States is three key components that as well as increase CPI inflation. Chrystia Freeland just said, but also The auto parts and the truck industries between Detroit and Ottawa and other And also consumer goods, those are the So this opens up the front, the terror Mexico and China, the three horse That's right. responded. Trump. at it, Steve. right away. there will be the comments today from briefing out of Beijing. preparing for the spectre of increased protectionism from the Trump And again, that's sort of why the round of fiscal stimulus, because go with his promises. two months ahead of his inauguration. minds, shift to an emphasis on domestic to be heavily, heavily tariff. Lomax, Chief North Asia Correspondent Who undoubtedly will be really busy over discussed the impact of tariffs on the When I spoke earlier today with In terms of tariffs. tariffs would likely lead to a one time itself lead to long run increase in But it really depends on what our And if there ends up being a tit for tat tariffs on one another, that can be much So we at right now have to simply wait decides to do and then, of course, what wait and see. what can be expected. ahead on the show. on Trump's tariff pledges with Jennifer Inclusive Trade and Development. Organization's appellate body and also Commission. And with us here in the studio is Eli Bank of Singapore. I mean, this is kind of like reminiscent the start of it. Yeah. I mean, when you think about it, a 25% partners. one trading partner with the United And part of it is the markets are I would say, the two sectors that have and energy. where you're seeing some of the auto eight times before they ultimately get So when you start to then put a tariff time it crosses the border, until it you start to see how incredibly trade with with Mexico and Canada, I right now the trade between the three trillion a year or $3 million per million jobs and at least 15% of global So this idea of hitting our two largest somewhat unusual notion of using an economic trade tool in order to fight related in the sense that, you know, know, border crossings, migration to do it is again and a very out of the perspective, not an appropriate use of a commitments that we made. Is there a sense that it is the initial I mean, this is a businessman. It's a case of putting the numbers out trading partners will come to the table Oh, absolutely. I think, again, you can expect this to And I think that's part of the reason in office. would say, you know, Canada and Mexico that they can do. bit of the flavor of what Canada is coming after me? with respect to migration issues, that's United States has seen, is, you know, across the Canadian border. trying to divide Canada from Mexico and But there's no question that this is an get again, it's a and the problem is a So, again, the bargaining will begin have to show in order to to demonstrate that would be acceptable in order to get Eli, let's bring you into the I mean, as Jennifer indicated, these are These are, you know, direct trading Does it change the calculation for you strategy now? So, look, President Trump is going right These are the three largest trading And I think we have to be really careful people's expectations. 2.0 so far is that it's good for And we've seen, you know, bond yields on Now, there's a limit to how much bond We've got a scattering the equity rally We think that if inflation expectations cutting rates. towards 5%. beyond that, then that starts to be a we're seeing. real careful of. PC. Expectations are that the Fed may cut 25 Might this just change the needle for probably mostly on autopilot for the For now, I mean, they've just started Real rates are still too high and Trump So I think they'll do a little bit that But I think, you know, from the last is still resilient. inflation expectations are moving. needle in the in the direction that could see probably higher bond yields What we're seeing right now is the level in about two years. Debt is a problem. That is a problem for emerging markets. He wants a weaker dollar. you know, the nomination of Scott really, I think, a key development. dollar weakened on the news of his We saw bond yields come down as well. of how markets work and I think he's helping Trump get his cake and eat it, Meaning had these tariffs but yet have Jennifer, we heard from Eli saying that Does Trump understand how tariffs work? partners, it may come back to bite him Well, you know where he does not, because certainly he kept trail that it was China that was paying the tariffs, when obviously the reality paying the tariffs. these tariffs falls on the American And again, just to be clear on the with respect to these Mexican and bringing these in because these are Again, they're largely bringing in parts And so when our importers now have to components, it makes everything that expensive. over to what's going to happen with to add an additional 10% tariff on top I mean, to me, what's really significant additional tariff coming in from China. ready products that are sold at Walmart It's electronics. It's it's it's watches, it's appliances, Those have largely been spared from But now they are going to get hit by And again, a lot of that I think you're in terms of increases to consumers for things. would drop 50%, exports slumping 60%. basis of an economy that is, you know, I mean, how do you see this playing out economy? forward? negative impact on growth because, are parts and components that you can't okay, well, never mind, I don't want it else, or I don't need this part from have been again engineered and designed To go into that particular use by that using it to make something else. on a dime and start using product coming So it will have a downward pressure on, production. prices and overall, again, a downward activity. on initially, 10% on aluminum, 25% on on about $360 billion worth of imports Lots and lots of economic studies to What was the impact of the tariffs. manufacturing and return jobs to the And if you looked at it and said, did it The ultimate answer to that question so hurt so many of the downstream users of losses there. China, you know, affecting lots of, for So, again, lots of people that had been So the net net effect of the tariffs to U.S. And so I would imagine that with now particularly on Canada and Mexico, our is going to be even more of a negative economic growth. negative. experiencing nascent growth. say that you are pretty constructive. Right. valuations, right? priced in. telegraphed in bonds. authorities are much better prepared I think you know what's in the toolbox. That's interesting, because they've done monetary side. restructuring in terms of Not the last area to come will be Right. a dual track economy over the last One is focused on exports. Trump's terrorist club. side now that's struggling right now, hoarding in reserve fiscal policies to And we have Trump's tariffs are being That's probably in reserve to counteract So you're looking at a triple R cut Sure. I think, you know, on the monetary side, That's going to probably more to come in inventory on the housing side as well. inadequate and frankly disappointing so terms of boosting consumption demand. terms of business confidence as well, the first half of next year internally. you be buying right now when we see a What would you be buying? The strategy here is we think that Asia, will be more shelter against the We talked about the domestic track The large platform Internet names And those are really attractively valued And I think the last prong of our place. give cash flow. up basis. China. the prospects of a trade war? Yeah, exactly. obviously all of these tariffs break. I mean, under the USMCA agreement with charge zero tariffs on goods that meet these goods. system not to charge China any more our tariff schedule. States's commitments to its trading Mexico and China are well within their US actions and presumably ultimately to That is their their sort of legal right think about that. advisable because once you start down then then it leads again to a much, much negative impacts for the entire world. world breaking up into blocs, it will world. a percent global growth by 2028. Jennifer Hellman of the Center on of Bank of Singapore is sticking around. from my interview with Minneapolis Fed views on the Fed's upcoming rate US-China tensions and, of course, the Keep it here with us. Well, welcome back. We're tracking you, as Khaled says. rallying right now. highest level in about two years. impose tariffs not just on China, but well as Canada. this point in time. But it is the move in the dollar that's Here in Asia, of course, emerging market particular, getting a hit on the back of Eli Lee, chief investment strategist of He believes that Scott Besson's investors. But right now the focus is on the on the back of the possibility of those I mean, one of the crosses that you're strong dollar is going to be a real It has been historically. coming in, that's going to be a negative region. the region are going to be that are cutting rates to support growth because dollar. in South Korea, for instance, where okay, we'll have to pause about the Korean War and weakening. well, they've really only started easing and the dollar started to moderate We've seen how a weak again could volatility. waters to navigate just Linda, so we can the world to continue to weaken the one for instance. So which is why I think the nomination important. too. tariffs, he wants his fiscal spending. markets perform well. be a narrow needle to thread. knowledge of how markets work. to advise them on how to navigate these. Where do you find protection in times know, there's so much uncertainty when I mean, we're talking about how we're Absolutely not. going to be a good safe haven. And he wants that in place as look is the next 2 to 5 years to hit central by And finally, we think US equities will Yeah, I mean, you got to wonder as well, in this part of the world, which are the know, we talk about how China may be Are there, you know, certain markets uncertainty? in terms of fundamental the fundamental region. prices still, because it depends on what Now for China, which you talked about, I negativity has been priced in that we lows, right. So I think, sell on news. And that's going to be the reverse for And if I think Trump eventually shows us be on the table for China, We could see, potentially be a positive catalyst. We're seeing how there was so much It was euphoria in the market, yet All it took was one headline to to send where you know that expectations of back in play. going to come back and play is going to Oh, we saw an outflow of money from Right. of ebb and flow. struck me is that the manufacturing India is going to take decades, a long supply chains to happen. India is going to continue to benefit relocation of capital towards India. equities will perform well by elevations elevated. a. Well, we prefer to stay invested. India for for some time now. Well, I think what's going to be driving probably going to be earnings growth, healthy outlook. to be a huge plus as well. When it comes to foreign investor impacted by what we've seen? Group and I to gotten Adani himself is I mean might that impact sentiment. I think you know we've probably got to But over the near term, there's going to Given the size of the group, it could be But again, I think we'll have to see how Other sectors that are worth looking at Well, sure, we like the tech sector. We think the healthcare sector looks And also overlaying all of this is the earnings over the long term for these And we think India provides an excellent exposure to these areas. closer to 2025, what's the biggest risk Is it geopolitics? Is it Trump? My eyes is going to be all of the above. because it's really how these factors environment, which is going to be That means if you have a nimbler well while you have to have a nimble power. Eli Lee of Bank of Singapore. Keep it here with us. Welcome back. December is ramping up as investors look of the Fed's preferred price gauge. told us what key factors he's watching final policy call of the. somewhat above our target. 2.6% run rate right now. generally trending down. strong. question is where is the neutral rate You know, we've had relatively high years and the US economy has continued labor market has been resilient. the policy rate has been relatively high That suggests to me that perhaps the it was in the past and that perhaps downward pressure on the economy as I And so this is what I'm trying to downward pressure are we putting on the inflation. today, you know, still considering a 25 reasonable debate for us to have. You talked about how resilient the You talk about how resilient the labor You talk about how resilient all the And add to that, we have, you know, this Why not just pause? points that would argue in favor of not On the other hand, if I look at the goods, inflation has fallen all the way Services inflation is trending down and And wage growth is slowly trending down. Housing inflation is still high. indicators of where housing inflation is of new rents, that new rental inflation So that suggests that housing inflation Ultimately, we want to get inflation We're not aiming to undershoot it. about what is the path ahead for And that's going to be an important policy. could affect global trade and his views economy. potential tariffs back and forth between The other big concern is just the that it appears to be in. the housing sector that is and has been years is now appears to be weighing down struggles that the Chinese economy is And so I'm just something that I'm in China do. a stronger, sustainable growth path? their housing bubble doesn't seem like So what is China's growth strategy? the US and China and back and forth is But I think China's own domestic Do you think that if China's economy some contagion and other Asian economies impacted as well? I mean, China's obviously a huge economy economy just grow slowly. imprint on everybody else. markets would be one of the first places steel or for iron ore or other metals or So that's that's something that we're it just matters a lot for the global But then I also think many other Asian around the world. where the US imports most of its goods. years ago and China shared exporting quite a bit. southeastern Asian countries have picked And so I'm actually optimistic that perform well because they're connected to South America. that what happens in China matters to And that was Minneapolis Fed President Well, coming down to the India Open, it here. shaping up. pressure from the threat of those Trump People are now saying that money could Might we see that again? pretty extended and investors will have And we know that retail investors have including Adani shares Adani back in Of course, there are concerns about its that. currently in positive territory, up rest of Asia, mostly in negative Trump tariffs. The Adani Group shares Adani Enterprises Adani Green is the one that has been yesterday, today back in losses, down Total halt of Adani investments awaiting charges. developments on Adani, there's been a modi's allies over the allegations, a support Gautam Adani still enjoys in Let's dig deeper into the local Asia Economy editor Ruchi Bagchi Ruchi. waves across the globe, but how are What's the mood? Oh, well, the Indian opposition party National Congress is making a furore and the US indictment. do Modi's party agenda. perhaps shows the kind of support across you know, our group companies really account of, you know, the kind of indictment. the Telugu decent parties and United of Bihar. the issue, so much so that one of the into the issue and will act only in due Having said that, one thing is very probe here in India. regulator did not close its report. know, charges that they were looking Besides that, the Adani group also has well. very, very hard for India to initiate respect to this U.S. Also, remember, the port to energy with the kind of ambition the prime the Indian economy. infrastructure spending in the last And there is a lot of talk about how getting into the infrastructure space. the ambition that Prime Minister Modi So it will be very hard to initiate any And the Allies have largely refrained of now. company has a global footprint, its scrutiny. projects? group in the long run will find it projects that are there in different For example, you did hear from will not be making any new financial On the other hand, from Kenya. contract as far as the airport and power well. troubles in Sri Lanka and in Bangladesh, global projects may go slow. respect to raising fresh money. know, countries would be waiting to get indictment, which would mean more So there is a big cloud that is a big Group, not just in some of the other They have projects in some of the Indian So how that really plays out is the next few days. President Neel Kashkari. charges. sending a warning message to businesses honour these laws. United States or in your home country if American investors. are going to be in India and the Indian point, but it's something I think paying close attention to. earlier with Richie Barker out of India. is getting more expensive, it's because almost 30 years ago. I mean, this has become a luxury item. Right. how your coffee just every day in the more expensive. actually seeing this, it's, you know, We're seeing the top suppliers such as And they're seeing really dry conditions acute the condition in Brazil and some we're actually seeing the worst So that's affecting the prices of You said earlier how, you know, these the highest level since 1997, and that's expensive variety, but is also having the budget friendly varieties. pressure and, you know, coffee just You know, we talk about how coffee is One of the most expensive coffees out world in Indonesia. Look, I mean, some say that it can cause cup. And from the sound of it, coffee prices Yeah. niche It might not be for everyone given the But, you know, coffee is getting more managers actually betting, adding on to well as Robusta based on the most And the sense you get is that it's just If you look at Brazil, for example, these key growing areas for at least the You think about how farmers, they have a financial position. to just be able to keep charging higher And the issue, it's not just confined to We're seeing Indonesia, to your point, and that's affected their crops this And the US government forecasts have production they're expecting from So all these factors just potentially I'm putting it out there. Yeah, that's right. Exactly. you would live on coffee. squeezed. Australia people can afford the younger Now they won't be able to afford coffee and level rise avocados. the coffee prices is not just something The roasters are also feeling the pinch. And even though I think overall you've down since the peaks that we saw in I think this speaks to how we're still products. reflected across the supply chain. They're able to raise prices. And I think this coffee issue also on the wall on Brazil, not just for So it looks like, you know, this could But you know what? is going to keep getting higher when I'm afraid we're going to need a lot you need to stay awake and people, you you're going to need your coffee. Now, before we go, let's take a quick Of course, that's on the back of how liabilities may just pile up from here, We are in the first few minutes of trade Enterprises in positive territory, Adani power also in the positive, but energy stock, currently down by more Of course, people have been talking Investors lawsuits are likely to pile And before we go, we'll look ahead to Tomorrow. commissioner, nothing for no more Lucidly to discuss opportunities in Plus, J.P. will be joining us for the latest on That is it for INSIGHT. next. This is goodbye.