Space Telescope is in a way a little like Galileo's first telescope. Wherever Galileo pointed his telescope, he made major new discoveries. Look at the Moon, you find look at Saturn, you find rings, look at the Milky Way and you find that it is littered and composed of stars. If you could look back in time, when would you look back to? Early man? The time of the dinosaurs? Or the birth of our planet? We like to say telescopes And of course the reason is because light takes time to travel. So the street lamp across the street takes a teeny tiny fraction of a second for the light to reach your eye. The light from the sun to reach the earth. So in essence, we're seeing the sun as it was eight minutes ago. Now, a new telescope that's more powerful than anything that's ever been sent at some of the farthest It's called the James Webb and it can see back to the when the first galaxies started to form and emit light after the Big Bang. One of the great things is they're really designed So all the way to 13 and a half all the way to our cosmic and everything in space Finally, after 30 years in the making, a successful launch into space, 1 million miles traveled from Earth, months of cooling to near it has delivered its first, full color, science-quality images. These images showcase the and offer a preview of the These first images really do signify the start of science operations. We have over a year of some really exciting things to do in the first year of operations. The hope of scientists is to uncover the greatest mysteries We would like to observe Red giant stars in the disc of Andromeda. Star-forming regions, our galaxy and two nearby The Trappist-1 system, what we can call the TNOs, these are objects that are orbiting beyond the orbit of Neptune. So in the coldest regions How stars, galaxies, And that really helps us So we have all these that we've planned to try to answer. And I think we'll for sure answer those, but I think we'll also learn things that we haven't even dreamed of yet. Lift off with the Space Shuttle Discovery with the Hubble Space Telescope, In 1990, The Hubble Space Telescope successfully launched aboard It's been serviced by allowing it to be one and most expensive For more than 30 years, through it's changed our Galaxies, nebulae and star clusters have been seen like never before. The Hubble Space Telescope that by putting an observatory into space above the atmosphere, you without that blurring that So looking at places in our own Milky Way, where stars are being born, and we are beginning to see evidence for planets being born in discs of gas and dust swirling around those stars. Things that weren't even when Hubble was built, include of planets going around other stars. And then beyond that of course, the very big picture has all the way back close to the Perhaps one of the most from what's known as Instead of looking at from ground-based telescopes, they pointed Hubble at a and took hundreds of long then combined them. This first image changed the Almost all of the roughly is a previously unknown galaxy. So Hubble has actually helped of the Universe from the which was lying around millions and how that coalesced and agglomerated and swirled together to form So that's one of the So to follow on from that science and see the birth of the first galaxies, we need a bigger telescope in the infrared and that's the JWST is named after James E. Webb, NASA's second administrator who oversaw the agency's to reach the moon. He believed NASA had on pushing space science This next generation telescope more powerful than Hubble but its ability to see infrared opens up It means that scientists are of light that are invisible to Hubble. The Hubble space telescope in the optical. So the wavelengths that you and I can see. But as we look at the most because the Universe is expanding, those galaxies are in essence, and faster speeds. And that means that their light into the near infrared. So in fact, when we want to see the very most distant galaxies, the first ones which ever Hubble can't see them. It's unable to see at And also it's not really big enough to see those extremely faint objects. This shift in wavelengths and the result is that emitting visible light are invisible to telescopes tuned to So you need a big telescope like JWST in order to see the ones which are moving that all of their light is Now, JWST's largest program during its first cycle is to the test. The COSMOS-Webb survey is going to be looking 13.5 billion about 200 to 300 million And what it's going to be that are much further away from us than we've been able to do before. So we're going to be able to find some of the earliest galaxies that have formed in the Universe. The Hubble deep field looked and stared there for a long time. And that was really our first look into the distant universe. With COSMOS-Web, we are going so not only will we be that are much farther away from us and much deeper into We're going to cover a much So we're going to be able to observe many, many thousands more galaxies in the small area of So right now with Hubble at these early Universe time periods, you don't see very many. And what you see is a smudge, just a little bit of a blob. With JWST, we'll be able We're gonna learn a lot of our very early Universe. How the earliest structures But JWST will also tell us a lot about how those galaxies evolved from the very early Universe until today, because we'll be able to see of distances all the way back. So we can put together a and how their structures The images are going to which means we can resolve and see really fine details So I fully expect some of are going to be jaw dropping. And so overall, we estimate that we're going to detect in the very early Universe, but how many we actually detect tells us something very important So even if we detect less than we expect, that's still really interesting from a scientific point of view. If you had spoken to people from the first Hubble data, and told them about all Hubble has made since then, it would probably blow their mind, right? They never would've as far away as we do or that we'd observe, planets around their stars, et cetera. So we fully expect James will find things we never Unlike JWST, we can't see infrared but we can detect it through heat or experience it visually Infrared light, you can think So everything glows in infrared, you and I are glowing and infrared. A lot of things in space give off infrared light too, like stars, nebulae, and galaxies. But to detect the faint, far away targets scientists are after, JWST has to be away from The problem is with Hubble is that Hubble is actually quite warm. Hubble is in low earth orbit, and it's about the same And that means it's actually And that's a bad thing if you want to detect faint infrared light from very far away, because you are swamped from the telescope itself. So the James Webb Space really cold, minus 233 So the way we achieve that is firstly, by making the telescope open, it doesn't have a tube around it. But what it does have is a huge sunshield, and the telescope sits We're also located at a place called L2, 1.5 million kilometers away from the earth where the sun and the earth of the telescope. In this location, the telescope's main instruments can cool to near absolute zero temperatures and receive the infrared light. Then, they can take that or analyze the light to learn This is known as spectroscopy and is a major feature of We have four instruments on the telescope. And these different to do different things. So obviously, the imagers take images of the Universe in both the near-infrared and the mid-infrared part of the spectrum. The spectrographs take spectra of different objects in the Universe. So spectra are like you can of the objects. So spectra help tell us about and what atoms and molecules are in the various different Using two of these instruments, NIRCam and NIRspec, and one team is going to and reveal the composition in our nearest large galaxy, So we'll be looking 2.5 That means that the light by the galaxy 2.5 million years ago. Andromeda is the nearest It's our twin, if you like. They're both disc galaxies towards the Milky Way as well. They're gravitationally pulling each other towards one another and We see the Milky Way from inside, and that means we can just in the sky. When we look at galaxies we just see them as a whole and you can't really pick The great thing about Andromeda from the outside in, but we can actually pick in the disc of Andromeda. Which makes it a fantastic where you want to extend the science that we're doing in the Milky Way to this whole galactic population. Because we study the Milky it's like the Rosetta that we can use to inform our But of course then if the and galaxies, like Andromeda Then that means a lot of the things that we know about the Other telescopes, while that are good. They're just not quite good So we're gonna take spectra of 300 stars in the disc of Andromeda. And so what that means is of those spectra, where we see less light, we can actually understand like oxygen, magnesium and silicon. Before we take those spectra, which is the near-infrared camera. And we're gonna essentially of Andromeda before we to make sure that we can of the galaxy that we need to. What I'm interested in whether this characteristic that we see in the Milky which is something that without JWST. We know that all the galaxies have been forming of our universe. So galaxies that we of the whole of galaxy formation. If you could link all of the dots together and you understood galaxy you could actually turn back that happened in those galaxies and get to something like of our universe where all And I think those things and a project like this is telling us about the origins of our own galaxy. Most of us want to know Building a telescope that has enough power and sophistication to enable wasn't straightforward. Engineers had to come up in comparison to Hubble. So this telescope has this giant mirror, about 6.5 meters across, about 22 feet. And it has a sunshield that's And so it's an odd looking The reason it was designed this It stands about four stories tall so it's too big for any rocket to fit inside all unfolded in a rocket. So we had to fold it up and it unfolded once it was in space. Since space bound rockets do fail from time to time, over three and thousands of scientists' And we have engine start. And liftoff. Decollage, liftoff, from to the edge of time itself, James Webb begins a of the Universe. Honestly, the launch was of this mission. So following launch, we had complex, complicated deployments to get this telescope unfolded. And myself and I think were really on the edge of our seats to wait for these deployments to happen. Given its distance to the Earth, if something went wrong there wouldn't be repair missions like there was with Hubble. The deployment of the sunshield The sunshield itself is five and then deploy the five layers. And there were hundreds on the sunshield that all had to release in just the right way. There were quite a few so that if one release there would be nothing And so this particular watching the sunshield deploy But everything went off so well. The engineers have built an And after that two weeks, I think all of us took a deep breath. There was definitely a big celebration after the last part of The launch was so incredibly efficient, using less fuel than anticipated, it extended the mission from five years, to an estimated 10 to 15 years. Months later, after the there were a series of calibrations to make sure everything was aligned. The primary mirror is made And those segments had once the telescope was in space. So what we did was point the and then you essentially get back an image of 18 different stars. And so from using that image to the different segments, we and tweak each segment to align on the star. Each mirror had to be aligned to within the billionth of a meter, to form a single, primary mirror. That required making ultra to 1/10,000th the width of a human hair, which took roughly three So once that was done, we of what's otherwise a that proved that the For me, one of the most exciting things about this boring star image is the fact that in this relatively short exposure, you could see galaxies in the background. And so it gave us a little hint of what's to come with this telescope. The star calibration image gave us the first glimpse of JWST's power. It will give scientists into star-forming regions and to witness their birth We'll be looking back in time between 20,000 and 200,000 years. We will be looking at three One is in the Milky Way, our galaxy and two are in nearby galaxies, NGC 3603 is a massive star at about 20,000 light-years And it is made up of many some of which are even a hundred times more massive than the Sun, but there are many, many smaller The Tarantula Nebula is located in the Large Magellanic Cloud at a distance of about The Tarantula is a massive There are millions of stars and some of them are still And the third region that we is farther away still in the Small Magellanic In each one of these regions, we will select about 100 stars and we will look at them very carefully by blocking everything else. We want to get only the light of those that we are interested. So we can disperse the light very clear. But then with the camera, we and they will be easily millions of stars that we'll be seeing in these parts. We will be looking at the massive stars, but we are particularly because those are the most likely ones to have planets around them. The main goal is to understand in the way in which stars and also nearby galaxies. But unfortunately, visible in regions where you and the regions where stars So in those regions, it's very to go through but infrared So the light rays are able and we can see light even So we can see through the dust. Stars are the building block of galaxies. They produce most of the power, and they also make up the oxygen, nitrogen, iron. Most of the elements in our in a star. And in fact, there is more, some of the heavy elements in our body like gold, copper, zinc actually formed when a massive star exploded as supernova. So even though studying how who we are as human beings, it will definitely make us understand, make us realize that without stars, we would've never been But it's not all about stars and galaxies. JWST was also built with a relatively new, exciting field in mind, exoplanets. Planets that are outside Although there weren't while Hubble was being designed and built, it has contributed significantly giving us this first Now there are over 5,000 and in the last few decades, we've learned that the overwhelming majority JWST has capability to to a degree and precision that And so the infrared part of the spectrum offers a really great insight into some of the really that might be in a planet's atmosphere, things like water vapor and things that could that is habitable. And there's one particular system that's on everyone's mind. It's called Trappist-1, in the habitable zone, the in which an Earth-like on its surface and possibly support life. We will be looking about which is literally in our backyard. The Trappist-1 system is of exoplanets. This is a star is very small, and that star has not one, but seven planet transiting its star. And we know that these about similar to the and maybe four are right And this system is very 40 light-years away. And this is the one that we'll whether these planets have an atmosphere. And if there's a system to that's the one, the Trappist-1 system. The Hubble space telescopes and so far has failed. And we need a very powerful telescope like James Webb to do this. To detect their atmosphere, finding whether they have oxygen, water, all the molecules that as we know on earth. There are several methods, but the one that will be used very much by James Webb is the transit method. This is by chance you have a planet that goes in front of its And you can see a little light dipping, as the planet goes in front of the star. And that allows us to measure But also we can actually So the light that is by measuring the colors of of information about the atmosphere. It's called transit spectroscopy. And that's a technique but with some limited performance and the James Webb Space Telescope will be very well optimized to do these kinds of very The Trappist-1 system is This is the one that will And there will be lots of with all science instruments onboard JWST. It is to do with the fact So there's lots of light we And also the relative size of the planet to the star is relatively large, and that makes things much easier. We love small star and big Well, the Trappist-1 system I think just knowing that these and knowing that we have a and there's water on it, that That would be a first step We need to look in that system. Dr. Doyon was among the scientists who worked on the telescope of the instrument provided The telescope was such with numerous science goals that it required the the Canadian Space Agency, So with the James Webb Space Telescope, which astronomers started as the end of the '80s, even European astronomers were involved along with our American colleagues from the beginning, from the outset, and built a bigger and better telescope that wouldn't be possible Scientists who worked on the telescope were allotted time but from anywhere in the world. This whole process is dual anonymous. So don't know who's proposing And that's the way that the One of the great things about these NASA astrophysics missions is that anyone in the world to use time on the telescope. And that happens, we get to use the telescope and the best proposals are chosen. Anonymous proposals to a minimum, and ensured that of science goals, even ones focusing on our own solar system. We are looking at the farthest regions of our solar system. So this is 4.6 hours that to the Earth. The acronym trans-Neptunian These are objects that are orbiting beyond the orbit of Neptune so in the coldest regions There are estimated to be billions of trans-Neptunian objects, we have only discovered TNOs are one of the most pristine bodies in our solar system. That means that they have since they formed. So they hold clues and from the very first of the solar system. This basically means that they that are there waiting for The largest objects in the with Pluto is Haumea, Eris and Makemake, and because they are so they may have an atmosphere, like methane, nitrogen, CO. Those are in the largest TNOs and we think they were an ingredient for the formation of all the TNOs. But when it comes to really of these objects, we don't really know. So we want to look if in the smaller TNOs, there are also some kind, We want to know which are the ingredients that are on the surface, the physical and chemical the recipe to cook a small body. We have 60 TNOs in our sample, we have representation of all the colors. What we are doing is, we take the light that comes from one of these through this instrument is called NIRSpec, and this is a near infrared spectrograph. NIRSpec is going to serve that can't be reached So we are just separating the each single material that can be there. So James Webb comes on time and is perfect to do this science because it's out of the atmosphere. We have a preconceived idea of what is a TNO based on But our knowledge is limited like JWST is that they are They are going to provide to questions that we Apart from JWST, many ground-based telescopes in the next few years, complimenting the science JWST will do. Like the Vera Rubin Observatory in Chile, estimated to come online in 2023. It is a wide survey telescope expecting to discover thousands of so then telescopes like in more detail. And the next big space telescope The big telescopes like Hubble once every couple of decades. And the next big telescope is the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope. So that particular telescope or expensive as JWST, but it that's designed to see the Universe in more of a broad swath. So telescopes like Hubble to see small parts of but by looking a little we can learn different People often ask, are We're spending a lot of JWST is $10 billion. Hubble from its late all the way to now is about $16 billion and so the question of is it These are funded by taxpayers and of course all of that money that's quote, unquote sent on Earth, of course, But in addition to that, I think if we look at the and what we foresee as a if you put that in the context it turns out to be less a cheap cup of coffee, Human beings are curious. We all want to know from where we come. Yes, we exist because stars exist. And so it's good for us to and processes that are as human beings to exist. I know for myself, thinking the past couple of years with and so much negativity of a mission like this to look forward to and something that's and is a symbol of people working together to achieve something that is technologically amazing. For me that's awe-inspiring and gives me hope for It's so easy to get wrapped up in things that are happening on planet Earth and not go and think about that we see. But then on the other hand, how stars work can teach for example, the way that in the Universe. I think it's just a fundamental question that human beings should want to know. Historically, whenever a new and you ask the question what was the main discovery Nobody could predict it. I can talk to you about all we're gonna be doing, but you know what, we don't know, and that's the Who has not wondered Who does not wonder about All of that knowledge that wonders us, it comes because someone asked himself, what is that that is out there?