Alright guys. So this is the warehouse. This is where everything is going down. If you want to take a break, don't hesitate. That is not possible. It is possible to go to the bathroom, but this will be at the cost of your own time. The break room is over there. It's a 10-minute walk. You get two breaks. One paid and one unpaid. Any questions? Yes. So how do we do our jobs? No worries. You'll learn it very quickly and you can ask colleagues for help. But it will be at the cost of your own time. Any other questions? Yeah. You still didn't really explain how we get taught the work process. I have no idea what to do. Alright I'll be honest with you. I don't have all the answers myself. I'm also new here. All you gotta do is follow the instructions. Who will give me the instructions? I just told you I'm new here. I'm given this handbook but that's it. I'll get back to you on that question. Any other questions? Yeah I- Alright great. Lets get to work y'all. And remember: you're only as good as your work rate. Ladies and gentlemen. Your first break has now begun. You have 30 minutes. After that you'll be expected back at your workstation. 15 minutes left. Make sure to be back at your workstation on time. Being too late will result in working overtime. Are you kidding me. I literally just sat down and I'm not going back already. I need my lunch. You're staying late here son. How are you? I really need my food or I'm gonna starve. It's insane how little time we have for our break if you include the walking distance. You're a rebel. I like that. I am too. I've been working in this company for 30 years now and I don't care anymore. Isn't this company founded 30 years ago? I might be a little off with the years. All that hard work takes its toll you know. I know the whole company and the CEO personally. Actually, I could have been a high ranking executive, but I preferred the real deal here where the real work gets done. Oh no not a conversation like this. It's all about hard work. If you deliver good results, maybe one day you'll become a supervisor or maybe even a department manager. Do you have experience as a supervisor? Like I said. I've been offered the job many many times. But I prefer doing the actual work. I've even been offered the job of CEO. This guy has been working as an order picker his whole career. Let me tell you about the one time that I rescued a dog from the building- Oh sh!t. It's very late and my break is over. Gotta go! Don't let them punish you. Tell them you know me and you'll be fine. Hey you. What's your name again? Wojak. Mojak. You're 1 minute too late. Do you know how much work you could've done in 1 minute? I had to walk a long distance from the break room. Sounds like you need to manage your time better. I'll have to give you a sanction. What do you wanna do? You'll work at a different area for the rest of the day. Hey man, do you have a lighter? Of course. I saw you taking the onboarding today. How was your first day? I quit. It took me 1 day to figure out that this isn't for me. I think I'll pursue a career in dropshipping. If you have other options you should definitely pursue them. This job is tough. Yeah I see. I wanted to make some quick money next to my college but this is just straight up modern slavery. At least you don't have to talk to customers. That's why I chose this job. I mean look outside. It's literally dark again. We arrived here in darkness and we leave in darkness. That's so depressing. Yeah. I know. I haven't seen sunlight in a long time. How long have you been working here? For 3 years now. You're crazy. But I really do respect you and the others here. In the current world where everybody orders online, it's people like you who keep the society running. Do you plan on staying here for a long time? &quot;Maybe one day you'll become a supervisor or maybe even a department manager.&quot; Nah. This is temporary...