- This episode is I used Squarespace to build and bingingwithbabish.com. On the sites, you'll find other news and updates, all beautifully designed, Get 10% off your first Squarespace order by visiting squarespace.com/babish Boxed brownies. We've managed to procure Which one's best? Which one's cheapest? Which one's most expensive, Here's the rules. I'm rating them simply between 1 and 10. I'm tasting them blind by brand, price, or other We are only testing straight No nuts, no peanut butter swirly durlies. So that way we are kind of... That does some, that's something, right? I wanna bring some clarity and I wanna try a whole I'm being selfish in that way. I picked this episode Alright folks, first brownie of the day, and I gotta say, they look They have a nice crinkly, shiny top. I'm a fan of it. I don't require it, but I I also see some distinct and a piece of aluminum Brownies, these are brownies. and I'm gonna taste them now. Hmm, hmm, hmm. I really like this brownie, I really do. Distinctly chocolatey. In that one bite, I was the lucky recipient of two chunks. I'm also getting maybe It is nice and dense. It's got a great chew to it. It's very fudgy. It's ticking all my brownie boxes. So I think that earns them So, reveal to me now by I won't look, I'll just try to catch it while looking at the camera. (box clattering) I am a snob. It is Ghirardelli double chocolate. - Double chocolate? You just throw me the wrong box. - [Kendall] I did. Already, we're fucked. Ghirardelli dark chocolate. This is roughly three times the price some of the bargain level brownies. And I think you're getting This is a increase in price. And so with it increases the quality of the brownie, at least in this case. We'll see if that holds These brownies do not have nearly as shiny nor crackly a top as the previous batch. But what does it taste like? Hmm. Did I get a really good bite or something? It was laden with chocolate. It was positively laden. Look at how much damn chocolate is in this damn brownie, dammit. The texture is not as good Not as good appearance. Flavor's fantastic. I'm getting the same coffee vibe again, where there's a little... I must be imagining it at this Is there a coffee in the Ghirardelli one? - [Kendall] Is it - Can you look up the pronunciation If I've been saying it... I should, especially in this context, be saying it right. - [Producer] Ghirardelli. - Oh fuck! This one deserves Ha! It's Trader Joe's. See, I'm very happy that because, $3.49? Solid dollar-ish less than Ghirardelli. For its price, this is Wow, look at what's happening here. So much swirly stuff. That looks like it was a which could have some interesting results. Should we find out? - [Brad] Yes. - That's what I thought. Hmm, we got a mixed bag The texture of this is outrageous. I would liken it more to fudge but it's got a slight chew It's so thick and dense and rich. However! It's worse flavor. The appearance is kind of They look very sloppy. They're lumpy and swirly. Okay, so I would give if it were just texture. Appearance, I'm giving that a six. And flavor, I'm bumping which I think, I'm not gonna do the math. I could, but I'm not going to. I can do it. I'm putting it at like a 5.9. (laughs) It's our hyper luxury option, the triple fudge brownie which retails for... - [Kendall] $16.34. - $16.34 (laughs) are you kidding me? $16 for brownie mix? And it's not that good. The texture, again, was amazing, but for this price, the If you bake it up in an eight by eight and cut it into nine pieces, that's more than a dollar a brownie. I could do the math, but I'm not going to. I could do it. (mysterious music) I just got the answer, I'm because I'm not trying to brag. Some real picture-perfect brownies here. Really fudgy looking, There's no chocolate chunks in these guys, and not all brownies Hmm, okay. Flavor's not very good. I would call it worse than which I was not a fan of. It is not only the cheaper but it tastes more of And it tastes less chocolaty. Texture's okay. It's very fudgy, it's It doesn't have the great like some of these have had. Appearance is the best thing And that sucks. If you saw some delicious brownies and you took a bite of wouldn't it taste all the worst? 4.9. (box clattering) It's Duncan Hines, folks. And what an appropriate $1.50 cents, so very good value. You're getting nine full not great tasting brownies for, I could figure out the exact I'm not trying to show off. Wow, guys, we got our first wet brownies. It looks like Kendall A nice shiny, cracked up top, it's nice. Let's see what's going on here. Hmm, barely chewy. And it is pathologically fudgy. It is the fudgiest fudge, this is a fudge. This is a plate of fudge, I kinda like it. So very good texture in my book. So a little greasy. And the flavor, better than Duncan Hines, better than Stonewall Kitchen. This guy is getting a 6.4 (box clattering) Ghirardelli in a, I'd Our chocolate Supreme velvety chocolate syrup. I think that's where they went wrong, is the chocolate syrup. I've never had chocolate syrup that tastes like really good chocolate. So even though Ghirardelli's making it, I'm not surprised that this because I think the syrup, probably nukes the flavor. We have these guys, these leading me to believe they're They have chocolate chunks inside of them. They look to be plentiful, let's try it. Hmm, oh. Hmm, oh boy, that's a good brownie. Salty, first and foremost. The saltiest brownie the day, which I surely appreciate. One thing I'm learning here is next time I make box brownies, I'm adding a solid pinch of salt. (whistles) That makes the flavor pop. The texture's fantastic. It's as chewy as it is fudgy. It looks great, I love It's not quite as good the first one that we did. Just gesturally, I need - [Kendall] Ah! - Betty Crocker Delights It says triple chunk, but There's chocolate chips Where's the third chunk? - [Brad] Maybe you become - There it is. You are the chunk. (laughs) Clocking in at about a at $3.99. We're thinking that their luxury line of brownies because these were really, really great. You're getting a lot You're getting a lot of Next up, I see chocolate chunks. I see a nice crackly, shiny top. Let's see what it tastes like. Mmm, Oh. Oh, hi. It's good. This tastes like a brownie that you'd have at a wake because it's And then you try and you're like, oh, at least this brownie is good. (laughs) 'Cause I feel relief and a It's almost exactly the same as the last brownie with less salt. So I'm gonna bring it down to a 7.6. It is (laughs) very nearly the same one, because the last one and this one's called They're both Betty Crocker Delights. And they are near indistinguishable, I think apart from their salt content. To wit, can I have the other box. Exact same calories, sodium. (laughs) This is giving me way too much credit because this is 80 milligrams of sodium. This is 85. So it's a little tiny bit more. There's no way I have that I picked that up. You're still getting a really great value with Betty Crocker Delight's but if you're gonna go between these two, I would go for the triple chunk. Next batch. They have very nice, shiny tops. The sides look solid, but they look muted, the color's muted. Hmm, I didn't see chocolate chunks, but there's chocolate chunks in there. Salt, again, very prevalent. Ooh, chocolate flavor not that good. The texture's fantastic. It is chewy, it is fudgy. And you get a nice little I would call these a divorce where you're happy that you got divorced because it was a toxic marriage. And you're celebrating and you serve these brownies (laughs) because they're bittersweet. I'm giving these guys a 6.1. This so far is my least Folks, we have a sticky brownie situation. It looks like it's damn near impossible to extract this brownie from the pan. Bear in mind, all these brownies They were placed in a well lubricated, non-stick sprayed aluminum pan. We've had no issues with any So we're not gonna take Oh! (bleeps) Oh no. (laughs) Look at this. Let's see what happens here. Maybe I'm getting sick of brownies. I never could have I would not like a fudgy And the flavor doesn't save it. Totally middle of the road. And I have to dock it bad for this. Imagine if this was your Do you need this on that It's a pretty universal failure, so I think that has to I think that's all it deserves. (box clattering) Pillsbury chocolate fudge. We got two more Pillsburys to try, not off to a great start. Let's see what happens next time. Let's forget I said that. (laughs) I already forgot. What'd I say? - [Brad] I don't know, - Oh yeah, okay, perfect. (laughs) We got another messy I can tell just from looking at them that these are the because they have the same lumpy look. I'm not gonna say for sure, but it looks like it's the 'cause they have the same lumps. But also, I don't know that So let's forget I said that. (laughs) Mmm. Okay, the texture's fantastic. And the flavor, if this is is way better than the other one. And coffee, I'm getting which dear God, do I Oh, it looks bad. It's lumpy, it's swirly. If I saw these in the and I was buying illicit with the brownie trunk, I would tell him, &quot;No thank you.&quot; (laughs) Bad appearance, good So that really puts it at a 7.1. Oh, this is the Stonewall The lumpiness and the very This is their traditional brownie mix. This is the Upper East Side brownie. It's a lot of flash, a lot of money. And when you get right down Okay, a dramatically There appears to be less of it, and it's rather unpleasant looking. It is pockmarked and covered with craters, as it were, the moon's surface. This is a departure from where we've been. I also want folks at home to feel weird. I'm starting to feel jittery. And Nico informed me. It's because I'm giving of glucose and that it's worse than if I just ate everything all at once. So eat your brownies in one sitting, kid. Kids. See, I'm already starting to lose my... - [Announcer] Mind. - It is very much like chocolate cake. It's like a very dense... If this were a chocolate cake, I'd be like, &quot;Sick.&quot; But as a brownie, blah. And it barely tastes like chocolate. It is barely there. Yeah, texture's bad, appearance So I think it's gonna A brownie that is bad in all respects, (laughs) Honestly, super not surprised. These are far and away the They costed us $1.19 cents. However the box only comes with eight ounces worth of ingredients. All the other... Most of the other brownies we So you're getting less So if you were getting the it would be more expensive This is a loser all around, from a flavor standpoint, All right, we got some that do look a little and dense and fudgy. No chew whatsoever. Little fudgy, kind of cakey. The flavor is not good. The texture's okay and but again, it's pockmarked. I don't know why there's all these holes. And the crispy, crunchy 3.8. (box clattering) Pillsbury's O for two. These did not taste of Mm-hmm. Not so funny, little white man. These guys look okay. They're definitely pretty Oh, there's chunks. That's good, that's good. The chocolate in the brownie, but not too processed, Texture's good, it's chewy and fudgy. They look okay and the flavor's solid. Just my gut says 5.8. (box clattering) Okay, this is available at Aldi. It's specially selected, $2.19. That's pretty, pretty darn good, because it's only than the Duncan Hines, is and it's a noticeable jump in That's a great value, and that's what Aldi's known for. Hit me up if you wanna do These are not an unhandsome Look pretty fudgy. There's chocolate chunks, the top, it looks lovely and delicate and crisp. Hmm, hmm, hmm. I can't decide how I feel about that. It started good when I was eating it. I was like, &quot;This tastes good,&quot; but then it took on a burnt vibe. And I know we didn't burn this. It's perfectly baked, there's no way this is burned. It's very greasy, it's maybe and quite delicate at the top. Yeah, spongy, greasy, but not very chewy. And the flavor is just off. It's not bad, it's just off. It's not quite right. I think that puts it at a 5.7. This is an upset. I was fully expecting to hate these 'cause I hate Hershey's chocolate. I stand before you flabbergasted. That one of my least favorite Huh? Betty Crocker? I didn't realize that Hershey's and Betty Crocker were in cahoots. So, okay, that's actually less surprising, 'cause the Betty Crockers We have some real Plain Nothing objectionable. It tastes precisely like Cocoa Krispies. So not great. (laughs) I like Cocoa Krispies, Really not a very good flavor. Texture's okay. It's fudgy and a little bit chewy. And the look is okay. So let's give it a 4.8. (box clattering) Duncan Hines. Wait, the last Duncan Hines was 4.9. - [Kendall] Yeah. - So these are dark chocolate fudge. Yeah, wow, that's really surprising that it got damn near but that feels right So you might notice that on this plate and that's because, of brownies yesterday and So we picked one and we ate three of them. And this is that one. And I'm sorry to have violated our journalistic Appearance, not great, no shiny top. And the top is pockmarked and covered in holes, which is unappetizing in any kind of food, especially if you have... What's that thing where Little holes. Trypophobia. Especially if you have try trypophobia, you don't wanna eat Okay, flavor is above average. It is not anything exciting. The texture is okay, And the appearance is not that great. I think this is a five. This is a five. (grunts) Ghirardelli Ultimate Chocolate, includes chocolate syrup and chips. Syrup is where they go wrong. You think ultimate would rank higher, because ultimate implies that's But this is their worst Next up, what I think is brownies of the day. Hmm, these taste like the These are the brownies of my childhood. These are what pops into your head when you hear the word brownie. They're average across the board. They look average, they taste I know I just gave it to but that was because it got This is just straight up average. And this really and truly deserves a five. This is the prototypical (box clattering) - [Kendall] Sorry. - (groans) And what do you know? It is the very prototypical brownie. It is Betty Crocker, straight up fudge. This is what I picture every time I close my eyes. And it produced the most It's poetic in a way, that the world works like this. (laughs) $2.99 cents, 25% savings And frankly, you get what you pay for. These are fricking gooey. Look at that, look at, it looks... Look! You see that? You see how shiny and crazy that looks. It seems like these have - [Kendall] But it came I think they're a little underbanked, but regardless, they look ridiculous. They're quite greasy. The craggle on top is falling Oh, okay. (spits) I think it's a little under baked. It's baked around the corner, so I'm gonna go for on an edge. Yeah, once again, we're back I said Cocoa Krispies. Now we're in Cocoa Pebbles territory. Very artificial flavor. Extremely greasy. I feel very greasy for having eaten that. And not a great look. Texture was okay in the Little fudgy, decent chew, not very cakey. So that's the only thing I'll be generous and give it a 4.5. I don't know why I squint, Dunkin Hines, 4.5, 4.8, 4.9. They're consistent, if nothing else. And this is the milk chocolate one. And it just makes the chocolate taste all the more processed. And it's the worst that Wow, what a tall batch, what a terribly tall batch. Distinct milk chocolate flavor. It's okay. The flavor's okay. Texture's not great. It's not cakey, but it's not The flavor's very nondescript. The texture's nondescript. Look is pretty good, Yeah, I would call it an average brownie, but it is dipping below that. It's dipping into the fours. I'm not angry at it as I hold it, but I feel nothing towards it. This is putting it down Another wild card, we got Baker's Corner. This is also available at Aldi. $2.19, it is inexpensive. But you're gonna get a by going Duncan Hines, and it's cheaper. These look exactly like the last ones that I just did. These look precisely the same. So hopefully, it'll be easy to distinguish them from Let's find out. Oh, oh. The first of the day I would call spongy. Ugh, flavor's not good. And the look is fine, it's It has even more holes and the texture is the worst of the day. Spongy, no fudginess to it. It's just bleh. Bleh, it's like that, That sounds nice, it's too nice. It sounds like this... 3.70. Oh, somebody doesn't like I mean, it's no surprise to me 'cause it's milk chocolate. But it's really processed tasting. Yeah, really, really unfortunate brownie. I would call it the &quot;Lemony Snickets: A series of Unfortunate Brownies.&quot; Last brownies of the day, folks, brownie number 21. And what a handsome plate I feel like I've just chain I feel insane right now, but last one. Hmm. Processed milk chocolatey flavor. Okay texture. It's a little springy. The flavor's not very good. The thing it's got going It's a decent looking brownie. It's tempting looking. If I saw that in a baker's I'd say, &quot;Thank you.&quot; Then it'd be weird. It'd be a weird interaction, A 4.6, that's where it belongs. (grunts) Betty Crocker with their non-delights. This is the dark chocolate version of the brownie that I had before, I assume, the fudge brownie, and it doesn't taste like It tastes like... I thought it tastes like milk chocolate. Not a special brownie experience, and thank God it's my last one because I feel like I'm gonna die. Well folks, we did it. I escaped within an inch of my life. Will I survive the night? I'm not sure. What did we learn today? I'm asking. We learned that Jiffy is the worst. It got the worst score while not being a terribly good value. It's less expensive, but you're That Stonewall Kitchen is akin to robbery. The Ghirardelli dark chocolate, these guys, I recognize them immediately. This is the best dollar per donut you're gonna get in a brownie. Betty Crocker Delights in the sevens, and it is $3.99, which is an incredible value. Betty Crocker, when she really slaps. There's a lot of joy to be It's up to you to go and find it. You have the knowledge and the skills, and we'll see you on the other The brown bow. (whistles) That's where we'll be. Thanks again to Squarespace They've been a great partner in supporting the Babish culinary universe, and bringing my websites to life. From websites to online stores to domains and analytics, Squarespace for you to build your online presence. They also have SEO tools so and searched by more people more often. If you wanna try it for yourself, you can start your free trial today by visiting squarespace.com/babish to get 10% off your first purchase. (gentle music)