(drumming) Hey, it's Andrew Huang with Russell Holzman today. An excellent drummer, and I am a fully, like, just figured things out as I went. Self-taught, I don't actually know anything about drums, and I just try playing them. So, we're hoping today, Russell, you'll be able to level me up with all that knowledge in that juicy brain. - Let's do it. So these are called drumsticks. They're made out of... wood. - Like, I don't even know, no one told me how to hold a drumstick. - Yeah, I mean, it's not rocket science. I think that looks pretty good. I think you generally wanna have all your fingers on the stick to, like, maximize how much control you have. I see drummers, like, playing like this, and that's just a recipe for all kinds of physical issues. So, technique is something that should make you feel comfortable. (drumming) So, in terms of something that we can all practice, coordination. Do you know what a paradiddle is? - Is it, like, left, right, left, left, right, right, left, right, or something? - Right...right, left, right, wait-- (laughing) - I've thrown you off with my awful reinterpretation of a paradiddle-- - It's right, left, right, right, left, right, left, left. - Yes, okay. - So, can you play that on the snare? (drumming) All right, so, right, left, right, right, right, left, right, left, left. (drumming) Instead of between the right hand and the left hand, try to do it between the right foot and the left hand. - So, instead of my right hand, I'm using my right foot. - Yeah, try that. (drumming) Great, so, can we kind of turn that into a beat? Pretend like those are eighth notes, and then on your right hand, put chord notes on the high hat. - Okay, yeah, yeah, so. (drumming) - Very nice, do the same thing now on the ride cymbal. (drumming) Excellent, let's bring some left foot in there, shall we? - All right. - So, let's try to put the left foot now on beats two and four. - Okay, yeah, this is where it's gonna fall apart. So, I'm still here on the ride. - Yeah, so you're doing one, two, three, and four on the ride, so, just. - One, two, three, and four, right, okay, oh god, okay: (drumming) - Let's take it slow, boom, cha, boom, cha, boom, cha, cha. (drumming) I think what's throwing me is like, I don't know when to lift this leg. - This is a good thing to touch on now. My foot is just always bolted down, and when I hit it, I just go up to come right back down, and then make some nice, tighter &quot;chick.&quot; - Yeah, it's just faster. - Yeah. (drumming) - Okay. that's sounding better and feeling easier to do. - I wanna grab that piece of paper I had, beautiful combination of R's and L's. Let's go back over to the closed hi-hat. So, try, yeah, so try the same thing, eighth notes and quarter notes on the hi-hat. (drumming) Nice, so you wanna try that one now on the ride with hi-hat on two and four? - Okay, we take it a little slower. - Yeah, take it slower. (drumming) Yeah. (drumming) Okay, great. Same thing with number three now. - Right, right, left, right, left, left, right, left. - Yeah, it's a backwards paradiddle. (drumming) Great, cool. All right, you wanna try the last one? - Let's do it. - Number four. (drumming) - Oh yeah, this is tricky. Slow it down. (drumming) Yeah, this is definitely the trickiest part and I feel like it's never quite lining up. - Yeah, but getting this really strong is gonna make all the simpler stuff way stronger. So that's your homework assignment. - It is, yeah, that'll take some work. I mean, I'm getting it sometimes, but then it's holding onto it for more than a couple loops. - Right, it's just like they said, it's easy to get money. - The hard part is-- is keeping it, motherf***er! (drumming) Something that a lot of people don't talk about enough is how you hit the drum, which is like how you actually sound good. I get people, oh, what snare is that, what snare is that? It's like, dude, it's like a $50 snare made of plywood. The secret weapon of all the greatest drummers in every genre is the rim shot. Getting a nice ratio of rim to head. (drumming) Getting that and then getting a nice ghost note in between. (drumming) Okay? - Yeah. - Let's do it. - I'm just trying to hit the rim and the center of the snare at the same time? (drumming) - There you go, yeah! (drumming) That's the good shit, yeah. - This is like the drum version of a pinch harmonic. (electric guitar) - Yeeeeaaah! (drumming) - Yeah! (drumming) - There you go So if I was gonna play this beat without understanding rim shots: (drumming) - Kind of milquetoast. - You wanna try this? The ones in parenthesis are ghost notes and the ones with the accent are rim shots. So let's take a real slow. (drumming) - Trying to-- (drumming) And kinda don't do this. Rest, yeah, like your thumb should be kinda, yeah. - Yeah. - Yeah. (drumming) - Oof. (drumming) - Good. (drumming) It's not gonna happen right away. Like it's gonna take some getting used to settling in. - But you basically get to the point where you're like you can get it exact every time. - You know, setups change from night to night and it's not always like the first snare hit of the big chorus. And I'm hitting only the rim. And like that still happens, you know? Let's do some nice tasty ghost notes kinda leading in to the rim shot. - Okay, yeah. So we're going: (drumming) - Yeah. (drumming) - Whoa, it feels great when you get it. - Yeah, I wanna write out one more beat. This is not my most beautiful notation, I'm sorry. Let's try this new beat, yeah. - So-- - We've got a little bit of that. Yeah, I think it helps. You wanna try it without the left foot for now? - Yeah. (drumming) - That's very jungle, eh? - It's a little jungle, yeah. You wanna throw the left foot now in? - Right. (drumming) Oh, okay. (drumming) - Good. - That's a tricky one. You know what I think? It's the switch. (drumming) - Nice. (drumming) I'm like, I know what I'm doing-- I'm overcompensating. I just wanna say, when you nail it, it sounds so effing good. It's like, I'm like, yeah, I'm talking about it. - It feels good, dude. I know, man. I know what I'm doing is when I think rimshot, I'm like angling too much, because I'm just like, gotta make sure I get the rim, and obviously I miss the head. - Yeah, it's just gonna take-- - The more you do it, the better you get. - Two days of practice. - It's gonna be beautiful in two days of practice, - I promise you. like 15 minutes right now? - Yeah. - Okay, what's the final pattern here? - Let's start on just closed hi-hat. Ignore these Xs at the bottom. (drumming) Mm hmm. (drumming) Let that ghost note kinda just tumble off the rimshot. Cha-cha-ch-ch-cha. Like kinda like, almost like it's one motion. Cha-cha-ch-ch-cha-ch-doo. Cha-cha-ch-ch-cha-doo. (drumming) Yeah. (drumming) - Cool, yeah. - Cool. You wanna try the ride and a little bit of left foot? - Let's do it. (drumming) - Wait, let me hear you play it. - Yeah, I was gonna say, let me sit down. - Not placing those foot ones. (drumming) I need to like, somehow maintain an even slower tempo, I think. I think I rushed the feet, and then that makes me speed up the beat. (drumming) - Yeah, can we make the ghost notes quieter? - Yeah. (drumming) - Give me a little more rim on the rimshots. (drumming) - Ahh. (drumming) - That's the one. (drumming) - And I keep speeding up. (drumming) - Ahh! (drumming) - All right, woo! - Got through a couple times. (drumming) - The secret to great fills is just right, left, right, left. Let's do just like, (vocalizing drums) (drumming) - Cool, so that's like drum fill number one, right? - Yeah, haha. - So let's try right, left, right, left, right, left, right, left, right. - Oh. (drumming) - Nice, so I think to use that in a musical context, let's end on like right, left on the floor tom and then hit a crash. (drumming) - Great. - So let's do that longer now. (drumming) - I was kind of like not sure how many beats the fill would be and kind of just put it in. - Yeah, yeah, that's okay. - Can I sit down actually? - I see like other people on YouTube do all these like insane stickings and it's like, what? So I just feel like you just, you really internalize some simple things and then the way you orchestrate it around the kit makes it musical, makes it interesting. (drumming) All right, so let's do a little variation on it. Let's go like, (drumming) So now we're orchestrating it kind of in groups of three and groups of six. - Cool, cool, cool. (drumming) - Exactly. Oh damn, okay. (drumming) Yeah. (drumming) - See, but let's stop it because even though you kind of flubbed it, it still sounded good. - No, for sure, yeah. - Because it's still just right, left, right, left. Can we do it now with your delicious new rim shots on the beat part? And then the fills, do the rim shots come in or no? - If you can, yeah, I think it sounds great. - Let's try it. (drumming) Ohaahhh-- A few moments later (drumming) - Uhhh-- - I'm always going for the goof. This is bringing up a question though because I'm doing that little double kick. (drumming) - Yeah. - And is there a technique for that? Because I'm feeling like I'm just trying to get it the way that I can, which is the first one comes from up here, but the second one is just in my ankle. - So people talk about heel-toe a lot and for me it's not really heel-toe. For me it's kind of toe-toe. And it's kind of like one movement. The pedal is, you're kind of doing do do, do do. And it's kind of like one motion, do do. - I feel like that's what I'm doing. - Yeah, and you're kind of moving. - So really it's just about getting good about the timing of that. Because I feel like I rushed those. Is there a way to practice that? Do you just do slow, like: (drumming) - I can sit down to show you. I would do kind of the John Bonham thing. (drumming) So of course he's doing. (drumming) Yeah, and then you can kind of work those into the: (drumming) (drumming intensifies) (drumming really intensifies) - Yeah! Oh man! - So, but again, it's all right, left, right, left. Right, left, right, left, kick, kick. Right, left, right, left, kick, kick. - Okay, yeah. (drumming) - Yeah. (drumming) Good, a little faster. (vocalizing drumming) (drumming) Can you kind of like go up and down the ladder like: (drumming) K... (drumming) - Sick, yeah. - Let's do foot, right, left, right, left, right, left. (drumming) (drumming intensifies) (drumming really intensifies) - Yeeeaaaah, hell yeah. - So, let's make it even harder to bring in the left foot. (drumming) (drumming intensifies) (drumming really intensifies) (drumming) - I would probably take a year to practice that, but-- It's all about that every day. Keeping your brain getting better and better, and those like, you know, muscle memory connections, getting stronger and stronger. It's really all about-- - So true with all music, like writing, production, any other instrument. A little bit of consistency is better than like, random, sporadic, huge bursts. - 100%. - Well dude, thanks for coming out. This was super fun. - Thank you for all the years of production, and Ableton, and recording, and harmony. He's exactly the same in real life, by the way, everybody. He's exactly the same. (Russell drumming in beast mode) (Russell drumming in beast mode)