Transcriber: roser pujal Tonight, I want to talk to you and share the great masters of the English language. I'm sure everybody's thinking It's going to be George Carlin. George Carlin really was a master One time I heard him speak about and how we create language. And he was talking about when the veterans They suffered from a condition And they had to come up with a term Like Carlin said, shell shock It was almost like the shells exploding As things progressed, the So as we go through more conflicts, we go Not quite as harsh. Little tamer, And then we finally get which is post-traumatic stress disorder. Carlin rightfully pointed out that and it doesn't do anything We're talking about the As Carlin said, if we would have kept shell shock, maybe those veterans in the care they needed when they returned. Now, as a veteran, I took this to heart and I never realized how much I kept on holding on to that softening Now, don't worry, I'm not here Mental disorders or anything like that. We're going to talk about something fun, We're going to talk about prison. Alright. So my name is David Maines. I own a consulting business. We consult to criminal defense I am a National Lawyers Guild I am a volunteer prison chaplain. I have I am considered an expert on prisons, I have been considered an expert by Texas various members of government. I've been solicited by the High Court And I was an invited speaker at Yale I've not done much with my life. Now, you might be wondering how on earth Well, it's pretty easy. I was incarcerated now for everybody here. Maybe a criminal justice degree. So after incarceration, I advocated for human rights, prison And I really enjoyed advocating for higher education in prisons. Hep. The reason I liked Hep so much is we know that the more education somebody has, the less likely they are to go We also know that if they gain education they're less likely to come back. So I spent a lot of time helping instructors all around the world It was a great community. And then one day the language So out of Berkeley, somebody and decided that we needed to use person first language when we're dealing with the incarcerated. No more using words convict. We needed to have person first. They're suggesting actually commandment prisoners. We call them justice Did you get that justice impacted persons. So what they're doing is they're trying about. Right. Are we softening That's exactly what they're doing. So this went on for a while, and pretty soon everything that came I had somebody in Sweden saying, hey, we Immediately somebody comes have you have you read the language guide We really need to use person And the rest of the entire conversation And it was all about person They were policing language. This wasn't just a message board. This was all higher education dialogue. So all higher education in prison Even prison reform. Well, I can And I wrote a very long response I didn't agree with this person. First of all, I had to point out that not person first. Other than that, I had to tell somebody in Berkeley, how dare you? In this day and age, try and tell somebody what personal What they were trying to do. Yet It was well intentioned, but what they What they're doing is trying It's not helping people by You have stigmatized people Person first language is only used for stigmatized groups. Doctor. Lawyer. Engineer. Pilot. Not stigmatized, They're not person first either, are they Didn't think so. Now, would you actually call an instructor or a professor here and education impacted person? You know, after all, they are people first, right? No you wouldn't. All you're going to do wrong with being a prisoner. Prisoner? Those are all states of being, right. Excuse me. There have been a lot of other The blind, the deaf, the Every one of them stood up to changing Every one of them fought against Because blindness isn't something they It's a part of who they are. I'm going to leave you with what I Little challenge. I said, if you can get and professor and call them person then we can revisit this. Until then, I ask that people stop trying to soften Stop stigmatizing people. Stop stigmatizing groups with person first language and start actually putting Thank you.