When students go to university the undergraduate fantasy that we teach and everything is built solely on and that we have a towering edifice all of which is solidly established it's a beautiful kind of conception, the problem is that's not true. It's not even close to the truth. It's almost impossible Some of the top mathematicians at this as a philosophy question, I've been actually working with A.I. If you start always inputting your ideas or proofs into a machine, the machine do a better job of helping Obviously this is something very It's moving fast we want from proofs? What have we What is it we believe when something's proved and how does AI change that? These are massive questions that that are popping I'm Andrew Granville, I work in analytic number theory. When I was young. I worked on Fermat's Today, I work in ideas of L functions But I'm interested including computational I've long been interested in popular My sister is a writer. We've been thinking so we worked together In the graphic novel, for us to develop philosophy, A philosopher of mathematics. Michael Hallett, read it and he was very interested in the way we portrayed mathematics being done. You cannot prove them to anything more primitive they are not in need of justification. Talking to Michael, of what it is we mean So Aristotle said that to prove your argument should rest on what he called primitives, things And eventually there's got to be some atoms there, the so-called axioms the basic things you cannot define, plane, if you're talking about geometry, What you do instead is lay down The phrase that comes to my mind Um, which, you know, is interesting at many levels when you compare it to mathematics. I mean, there's a certain arrogance The way it's traditionally been done papers that put in journals or books, And then when we wanted to verify a truth, and we check out the book and we'd It would help us gain new understanding, or we'd have to revise Today, The artificial intelligence they're doing something similar, except within the program. So programs already proven based on axioms and it's complicated, a mathematician can input their proof all the steps of logical, So what does Lean do? I think I have a proof of a theorem I've written something that I am a bit I don't want to get into all of the details sort of go back to the Tree of Knowledge, So the idea is to input that into Lean. It acts like an obnoxious colleague If they don't understand, they will not But sometimes those colleagues because by explaining it to them Oh, it's simpler than I thought. This is particularly famous example He had a very, very difficult proof He would try and say, well, this is true and you should know this Lean and Lean would say, I didn't know this at all. You're going to have to explain this better. The bits where he had been uncomfortable it was where it asked the most questions. So he felt okay, that was verification asking the right questions. So it's an exciting time. The question is, will machines How do you get computers not just follow you or make suggestions, This is something in its infancy, a lot of the work on computer has not done much of consequence. Very interesting within itself, But there are some very interesting, which one has some optimism the start of generating And so this starts I mean, we value our profession. We value our work by the profundity of proofs. But if we can rely on a machine to get all the details then who are we? What is our training? What is it that we value? So when we don't need to think about proof, then we're not going to be trained So who are we going to become? We're going to become more like physicists, and say any old nonsense, and just hope the computer verifies it. I think it's very hard to predict of doing mathematics in 30 or 40 years time. The idea of computer generated proofs these present new possibilities. Over time, we see, of course, more and and its very unclear what limits there are.