Today, the hard disk drive industry Western Digital and Toshiba - are in decline. The Solid State Drive or SSD is on the rise. SSDs Something that began 30 years ago with machines - remember those? - has grown to HDD unit volume sales will never be longer buy HDDs for their iPods, But the HDD's march towards oblivion Growing demand from enterprise companies Nearline, referring to data that the customer needs accessible but not so This market is real. Companies in data at a far faster rate than HDDs and their cheaper per-bit answer. But that answer has recently of technical problems that ended the Worse yet, the industry is struggling to we look at HAMR, MAMR, and the uncertain ## Beginnings The hard disk drive has worked largely the Data is stored in digital bits on a thin of the disk drive's platter. These bits are Each bit is made up of a randomly packed magnetic grains. Typically, each grain is about grain is a feature, not a bug. It avoids During operations, the platter spins at per minute. The read/write magnetic over both sides of the platter, The reading is done by sensing the magnetic writing is done by projecting an external ## Expanding Capacity In the fifty years since the hard the number of bits we can stuff onto each square This is measured using something AD is calculated by multiplying track density, by the number of bits per To demonstrate, the original RAMAC had density of 100 bits. Therefore, its AD Since the RAMAC, areal density In the first ten years, by 50+% each year. Then in the 20 years from 1970 to 1990, density increases slowed down to Then in 1988, a pair of physicists discovered quantum effect that allowed companies to The two physicists - Frenchman Grunberg - later won the 2007 Nobel Giant Magnetoresistance combined with thin-film platters with a thin film - revived Areal Soon the industry's products were ## Going Perpendicular When the impact of Giant Magnetoresistance started the hard drive industry went The move from Longitudinal to For decades, the bits on the platter to the recording medium. So if you can imagine it up to your eyes - then the direction This scheme is known as &quot;longitudinal the industry basically since the device's the industry realized that LMR First, if two neighboring bits happen to then they can interfere with one another. Second and more importantly, they hit Each bit is made up of a cluster either shrinking those grains or But when the grains are too small, then The energy threshold or coercivity where it can be reached by ordinary The Superparamagnetic limit placed per square inch on the areal So the industry moved to a new paradigm or PMR. PMR is where each bit is magnetized so up or down, rather than right or left. The scheme was first thought up by but it took nearly 30 years to In December 2004, Toshiba announced a pair of These tiny 1.8 inch drives can store 40 and 80 gigabytes of data - an unprecedented This was a major breakthrough, and transition of the 2005-2006 remains the ## Stagnation And its close sibling the shingled areal density to a staggering 1.2 The big problem however is that the industry first hit that number some time in Remember, a few decades ago, at a compounded annual growth Companies have compensated in part by adding more recent product in 2022/2023 was a 22 terabyte HDD Obviously, this approach has limits - the platters. Areal density remains the most This stagnation comes at a time when the thanks to new innovations like 3D NAND. 176-layer 3D NAND areal densities are hitting Yes, SSDs tend to cost more. But if you include and especially lower power usage, then might not be as great as first seems. Ergo, HDDs must resume scaling or else their per-bit cost advantages will erode. ## The Trilemma The trend of achieving areal density themselves or reducing the number of The grains are at their Superparamagnetic If they go below that size, then there will start randomly flipping again from So shrinking grains is out. Okay, then. So how In that case, you must now wrangle with the issue that not all the grains inside the Fewer grains per bit causes the bit hurting what is called Signal-to-Noise ratio. A So now what? There is one last thing and that is changing the grains' material. Change it to something more resistant to alloys of iron and platinum. In other The biggest problem with this is higher flip. And unfortunately, traditional and focus a powerful enough magnetic their limits with magnetic saturation fields So, it seems like we are in a bit of known as the &quot;Trilemma&quot; and has been time. This is why it has been so hard to ## Energy Assisted The way the industry sees to break is something called energy-assisted recording. The concept is that we make the switch to grain material. This allows us to continue But what about the higher coercivity issue Here is the solution. We deliver extra temporarily lowers the bit's coercivity, I am somehow reminded of chocolate. Maybe it is difficult to manipulate or cut into. However, when you add energy to it softens, which makes it easier for us to do The industry largely agrees on this approach for the next generation of have been waiting on it for a long, long time. ## HAMR For over a decade, Seagate and Western called Heat-assisted Magnetic Recording, or HAMR. HAMR uses a laser. Yes, a right into the read/write head. Or HAMR head. A laser is fired to locally heat up temperatures of over 400 degrees Celsius. This spot is very small. At least 10 by per-square inch areal density. This is so the beam must be focused using a After the data is written to the bit, the heated spot cools down in a nanosecond. The ideas behind HAMR date back to a 1954 used today was independently invented As with any change in technology working device can be challenging. properly syncing it with the head's read/write affecting other areas on the platter. The ## HAMR's Long Journey In 2012, Seagate's CEO gave a presentation A year later, 2013, WD displayed one HAMR though they didn't quite say Both companies predicted that HAMR 2 or even 5 trillion bits per square inch. Upon Bit patterned media, a very intense nanoscale islands created using nanoimprint But HAMR-enabled drives kept being which makes the platters for At around the same time, Hitachi, then introducing helium-sealed HDDs. Since helium has can be made thinner. This prolonged the existing In addition to the platters, the reliable near-field transducer - the component original transducers were made from gold, which The industry started to disagree on HAMR's timing to the market. And some time ## MAMR In October 2017, Western Digital shocked future HDDs would use a new technology called MAMR is based on a 2003 discovery by Christophe can help reverse a nanoparticle's magnetization. So instead of a laser like HAMR does, generated by something called a spin torque The microwave energy - 15 to 20 gigahertz allowing them to be switched It is definitely the far younger technology, and in it. But Western Digital adopted MAMR because into existing product, since it didn't In 2017, they were predicting production by 2019. trillion bits per square inch with MAMR by However, Seagate disagreed on inserting power. Down the line, magnetic grains need Can MAMR HDDs ramp up their RF fields to match? ## Back to HAMR So for about two years, there seemed to and Western Digital on what would hit the the market was in decline, this So In January 2020, it seemed like Western development of multiple new technology platforms MAMR was then slotted after an energy-enhanced Recording paradigm, which they called ePMR for And then after that Western Digital pretty much stopped talking about MAMR at all. The Covid years were very tough for is a highly globalized product, so supply And customers overbought existing demand only to be hit again when things the silence surrounding new HAMR But Seagate nevertheless still kept on working like in 2024 they will finally be able to ship HAMR's launch would be coming at a good hurting recently with 2023 being an especially bad ## Conclusion of Tom's Hardware for suggesting this The technology behind energy-assisted It definitely works. But will it Disk drives face not only the SSD, but rising up from the depths like that They include seemingly obsolete storage magnetic tape. Yes, magnetic tape. The OG storage Magnetic tape might take a while reliable, offline and energy efficient. And thanks to R&amp;D imported from the hard expanded its storage capacity. Some of these There is a great article in IEEE Go check it out. Everything old is new again. There is even a left-field contender with DNA storage. The technology remains immature - there are huge advantages in storage These technologies challenge the industry's EUV. If it does not deliver the same semiconductors, then another painful