- Maybe you'd have some idea - Devil did his best work didn't he? - Sure did. - Almost everyone who comes gets their fix from the same place, Dumont, just east of Rockaway. But you gotta have a death wish - I'll be fine, Father. I have righteousness on my side. (exciting rock music) I'm providing you an opening, because I promised my mother a chance to walk away. (ominous music) - We got 12. You got nine. - Well, that's a shame. You're at least three short. (glass shatters) (dramatic music) Let me guess. Government plates, government Surprised it took Senator who sweated his flunky last night. - The senator has a proposition for you. Get in. - No. (beep) My toothbrush in half. Now I own nothing. - Why not, Mr. Reacher? - Fine. Reacher. Why won't you get in the car? - Because he didn't ask nicely. - Okay, Hart, what's the magic word? (dramatic music) - Please get in the vehicle. (bell dings) - Here's 30. Need a new jacket. - What's wrong with the - It has blood on it. - &quot;Atomic Fall,&quot; &quot;Jargo the Jungle.&quot; &quot;Visited.&quot; - Can't believe people - I did a job for a Billion dollar company. - You gotta be (beep) me. - Well, you should try one. You'd like a first person shooter. - I am a first person shooter. (soft jazzy music) - I'd like a banana. I'd like a banana. (soft jazzy music) I'd like a banana. Banana - Mikey. I got no bananas. - Go find your crayons and - We just ran outta bananas. - Please sit. Banana - Kid's playing a Nintendo Switch. If we knew her gamer tag, we could track the IP and that'll lead us to their location. - But how do we find her gamer tag? We go back to Marlo's house. We might be on another - I ever tell you you're smart Neagley? - Not nearly enough. (upbeat music) (doors gently slam) - Oh, you two stay here. Those look like cops. - What do you two look like? - &quot;Lady and the Tramp.&quot; - And if he keeps his mouth shut, we never learn who he's working with and everyone else involved - Barbara Gollesman, she's 79, so be nice. - Why wouldn't I be nice? - (beep), It's after five. 10,000 combinations if no point in trying. - Good. Hate guessing some passwords. - We'll have to come back tomorrow. So what do we do now? (dramatic music) - No, no, no! (thug thuds) - Move your (beep). - I'm done. I'm done. I'm done. - It's a good thing Something could have gone wrong. - Making friends, big fella? (suspenseful music) - Okay. I'm serious. No more (beep) cowboy (beep). (suspenseful music) (door clicks) - So what are we gonna do now, boss? - Saddle up. 'Cause we're about to do a - What do you do back on the catwalk? - God, you must have been mortified when you saw you're as the homeless guy taking a - So where do you sleep? - Cheap motels mostly. - And what if you can't find one? - Unattended boats in Flatbeds of parked trucks. Had a great night's sleep in a hammock I spotted in some guy's backyard once, till his sprinklers went off. (phone beeps and rings) - [Langston] Yeah? - Before you ask if it's done, it is, just not in the way you hoped for. - You're causing a very complex operation a lot of problems. - $65 million worth, Langston? Assume that's who I'm talking to. Head of security, head - Maybe we've been approaching Mr. Reacher. - Just Reacher. Oh, tell me it's time (snappy soul music) Tell me it's time - O'Donnell and Neagley found the bar. It's fully stocked. Come on. You unpacked? (snappy music) - Yep. (snappy music) - Okay, Reacher, why don't we make a deal? I have the means to give you What is it that you want? (dramatic music) - I wanna throw you out of a helicopter. - I had actually forgotten about that. But it doesn't support your argument. Swan could have been stealing the drugs and just panicked and gave him back. - Maybe he regretted letting Maybe something like and he couldn't pass out that - It's a lot of maybes. My gut tells me he's a good man. - Your gut's never been wrong before? (customers chattering) - Looks like someone took the - Doreen, I'm just warming up. - We're still piecing it together, When this bird's cooked, we'll reach out. You have my word. - We won't let this guy slip A.M. and everyone working with him will be prosecuted to the - Unless we kill 'em all first. - Where you guys staying? - Dunno yet. - Well then please allow me. - Not necessary. - Oh no, any friends (upbeat rock music) Well, it looks like all we I guess that'll have to do. Come on, I'll get you guys settled in. - We'll be fine at a motel. - Reacher. When someone offers to comp - Yeah, we'll have 'em send you You'll feel right at home. (helicopter roaring) - Just wait till they're over the river. Pass that ridge. - Copy that. (helicopter rotor whirring) I think we're good, Neagley. - Fire in the hole! - There's a black sedan across the street, couple houses down. Same one as yesterday. - Guess you were right. We're being followed now. How you wanna play this? - I'm gonna go introduce myself. (suspenseful music) - Look at this (beep) yut. (suspenseful music) What's he think he's gonna do? (kick thuds) (rocket blasts) - Wait for it. (explosion booms) I guess Little Wing works. - Just like the good old days. - Yeah, you on the sidelines - Uh, fellas, this was his gun. - NYPD? - Name's Gaitano Russo. - Don't look at me. You did all the work. (bright upbeat music)