Ukraine's air power is about to get a serious speed and versatility, are on the way to Ukraine. Lecornu, the first batch is set to arrive by early how will they change the game for Ukraine? These fit the challenges of Ukraine's battlefield. But high-tech upgrades, there's more to this delivery piece of equipment counts, these jets could be turn the tide: air defense, precision strikes, before diving into these roles, let's get into Mirage family of aircraft manufactured by French the best-known names in French military hardware - in the second half of the 20th century. From the backbone of the French Air Force was the iterations of the Mirage III, which was replaced 2000 first took to the air in 1978 and became the early 2000s. It also scored significant export different variations were produced, with over 50 India, Peru, Qatar, Taiwan, and the United Arab the first generation of Mirage 2000s featured propulsion, and systems. The export-optimized, introduced in 1990, as the first of the "second Mirage family of aircraft was designed with CCV input by utilizing fly-by-wire (FBW) technology Control Configured Vehicle, the pilot's inputs control surfaces, replacing traditional mechanical and maneuverability, reduces pilot workload and therefore improves safety. Not that impressive technology back then. It retained the delta wing prototypes, which provided considerable lift, low avionics. But it also featured movable surfaces exactly the required trajectory. The aircraft's that it was more agile, handled better at low velocity. In keeping with the original Mirage assembly line, over the years multiple variants roughly the same basic specs. The jet stands 47 and has a combat weight of 21,000 pounds. The of 98 kiloNewtons, and the ability to carry a can reach Mach 2.2 in full flight and has an probe for in-flight refueling. The main model which was upgraded to the 2000D in the early tailfin and trailing edge root fairing in its to 19,842 pounds thanks to the new M53-5 engine. two-seat Mirage 2000B conversion trainer was also namely a pilot and a navigation and weapons two inertial navigation systems, Thomson-CSF map, integrated GPS, integrated countermeasures, or PDL-CT. In terms of firepower, in addition the planes can carry air-to-air missiles like Sky Flash; the BGL 1000, BM400, and BAP 100 missiles including the MBDA BGL 1000 laser-guided MBDA AM39 Exocet anti-ship missile, MBDA and the stealthy cruise missile, SCALP. Quite a Mirage 2000 version equipped for nuclear strikes for the French Air Force. Based on the 2000B, for low-level operations and was equipped with Its primary weapon was the ASMP stand-off nuclear none of those have ever needed to be fired in generation. As mentioned earlier, the Mirage France were the first of the "second generation" the main upgrades to the Mirage 2000-5 was the "RDY" being short for "Radar Doppler Modele Y" or multi-targeting capability in the air defense of operation. It can simultaneously detect up to on the eight highest priority threats. It was which features hands-on throttle and stick, or Thales VEH 3020 head-up display and five cathode interface (APSI) displays. The self-defense mk2 automated integrated countermeasures system and associated signal processing system in the data links. The aircraft is powered by a single 14,500 pounds of dry thrust and 21,400 pounds in it has an operational range of close to 1,000 that double the effective combat radius. In terms weapon system payloads: five on the fuselage four MICA missiles, two Magic missiles, and the MBDA Super 530D missile or the MBDA Sky alternative to the MICA. The drop-tanks can carry of the Mirage 2000, described a bit earlier. the Mirage 2000-5s being provided to before delivery. Enhancements include systems according to Lecornu. So, how could these Mirages that depends on how many Ukraine receives, and Force. Since it is in the process of retiring them Dassault Raphaele jets - Ukraine conceivably could to make a full squadron. But, at the same time, squadron until all the replacement Raphaeles 17 available to give to Ukraine. We mentioned make very good use of the Mirages, and the number how best to make use of them. It's likely that the will be used defensively - to bolster air defense likely be used in conjunction with another recent from Sweden. Included in the latest package of control aircraft, also designated as the ASC and control aircraft developed to enhance air threats. It is equipped with sophisticated radar awareness and long-range target identification are a huge boost to Ukraine's ability to and sea at greater distances. But they're also could threaten the Saab 340s are the MiG-31BM, the R-37M AAM air-to-air missile, which has missile's active-homing seeker is an advanced and nicknamed the "shayba," which is Russian for being approximately the same size. The Mirage to support these airborne control platforms. After in Kosovo and Bosnia. There, it was employed as Surveillance, and Reconnaissance - platforms due variant of the MICA AAM. Having the combination of AAM will potentially make the French aircraft the the Ukrainian Air Force. If the Mirages can be the fighter with a longer-range air space both in keeping the Saab 340 safe and providing area that has been singled out of late by both area where Ukraine needs urgent assistance. With kamikaze drones daily all over Ukraine, sending buildings both on the frontline and in cities Bild's military expert Julian Ropke reporting that one can understand the urgency. So, it's easy to context. But Russia isn't the only one launching enemy territory. As we mentioned at the beginning will be hoping to use the Mirages to the deadliest At the moment, Ukraine has a dedicated bomber is likely that a new brigade will be formed to the 7th Tactical Aviation Brigade. Why? There are type of aircraft into an Air Force isn't without second high-performance fighter aircraft is -- in mix" of the Sukhoi Su-27 and the Mikoyan MiG-29 However, whereas those two Soviet-era aircraft onboard systems and a single industrial base, same force presents complications. One issue is to both the F-16 and Mirage 2000-5 in many using more rugged runways than the foreign jets. for basing or deploying the Mirage. There would reinforced hangars and associated facilities to around them to fight off Russian attempts to consideration with respect to the deployment differences between operating and maintaining the three different sets of trained personnel, parts, is bound to stretch already limited military from Western donors and partners. That's if a and maintenance personnel can be sourced. There operated or still do operate the F-16, meaning pilots and specialists needed to train ground countries that have servicemen or contractors who Mirage 2000 - or provide their own to handle these Greece and France itself. Greece, like France, to Raphaeles. On the one hand, they will probably are complete. On the other, down the line, it is its replaced Mirages to Ukraine, along with some is that the 7th Tactical is already bursting at Ukraine's bomber fleet was comprised of 1970s had around a dozen still in service. However, at stages of the war before the bombers shifted do they still have so many aircraft? It's because have done an excellent job of sourcing and Su-24 airframes to a flightworthy condition. In a the 7th Tactical Aviation Brigade's commander, it did in February 2022 - more bombers and more Mirages to the same brigade might cause all avoided by keeping the two fleets separate, and in this is generally the way Air Forces containing operate. But, whether the Mirages get their own of their primary roles is going to be launching glide bombs have been one of Russia's most are basically regular Soviet-era FAB-500M-62 500kg Russia has modified them, adding wings - a and dropping them from Russian jets near the front bomb that only costs between $20,000 to $30,000 missile - and sometimes an improvement. A Kalibr at a distance of over 900 miles is worth nearly of around 850 pounds, the biggest FAB bombs 3000 - carry an even bigger payload of 3,300 converted the "Drel" cluster munition-carrying not guided missiles per se, Ukraine's electronic limited success against these glide bombs to date. bombs, but to date, Russia's more sophisticated Ground-Launched Small Diameter Bomb, or GLSDB, that extend its range to around 100 miles. It or SDB, and the M26 rocket motor, both of which inexpensive. However Russian jamming targeting largely ineffective. There are some indications or Joint Direct Attack Munition Extended JDAM. This kit triples the range of JDAM bombs allowing for easy installation and upgrade of immunity. Also useful is the relatively low cost of GPS and INS guidance that it uses has left it Ukraine has fared better against Russian EW with as the AASM, or Armement Air-Sol Modulaire "Highly or Rocket-Assisted Tail, gives these bombs a JDAM-ER. The problem here is not with performance, Hammers per month, in comparison to the estimated nowhere near enough to make as meaningful both Ukraine and its partners are in the process thwart Russian jamming and give Ukraine the these high-tech/low-tech weapons provide. In July new cheap, low-tech, long-range glide bomb. The be a low-cost, quick-to-produce air-launched a 500-pound fragmentation warhead, a hit accuracy to operate GPS effectively even under enemy of the ERAM is still some ways off - with the the bidding stage. The manufacture of the weapon the contract is awarded, with a production target Ukraine is developing its own glide bomb. announced back in June 2024 that the service to transform Soviet-vintage unguided bombs into a prototype was spotted under a Ukrainian Su-27. the presumably GPS-guided bomb looks a lot like a French glide bomb. If Ukraine can establish begin to catch up to Russia's own glide-bombing its own precision munitions, Ukraine frees itself for key military capabilities. That's especially the Mirages are expected to be used by Ukraine controversial, and the most up-in-the-air method. strikes deep inside Russia. Russia seems to have that are hitting deeper and deeper inside Russia, other key military and logistic infrastructure. and other equipment even further back into and disrupting logistics and supply to the front. strategy - and the Mirage's ability to carry for this purpose, such as British Storm Shadow and this plan has met with firm resistance from most do the most damage in this respect. So far, only permission for Ukraine to use the weapons they Russia. Of course, that means the F-16s donated be used for this purpose in the not-too-distant U.K., and France have refused permission. Although record as stating he doesn't believe such strikes the main reason for NATO members' reticence to might draw them into a direct conflict with nuclear war. Russia has allowed several of its without the threatened major, even nuclear, strikes deep inside Russia, it has taken its updated its nuclear doctrine to state that, in weapons that could be capable of carrying nuclear them - would render not just Ukraine liable for weapons, too. For now, Ukraine's major weapons That leaves Ukraine with the options of either Benjamin Netanyahu's book and doing whatever it weapon-supplying partners - or making its own. Or own long-distance weapons is just a smokescreen and blue paint, so to speak, to be used for deep plausible deniability. It remains to be seen how that the arrival of Mirage 2000-5s in Ukrainian more options, and a much-needed morale boost. a difference to Ukraine's war effort, or could clearance of old, redundant weaponry to make way complex? Please let us know your thoughts in check out Sweden Had Enough of Russia - GET OUT