But I get a lot of offers people's expensive cars. I'm kind of lucky like that. The trouble is almost all of drive that expensive car in a good on video, so I tend I mean, who wants to watch a super car slowly? Certainly not me. But a few months back, a bloke F40, and his F50, and that he did all the cars on my videos. Are you sure? I said. I'll be disappointed if And so that's why we're now exciting Ferraris ever built, them two of the most exciting We have the beautiful Anglesey ticket to drive an F40 and an haven't seen before. Even now, I can't quite day actually happened. Before we play, some background These two cars are fascinating but they share an uneasy Or rather, the F50 has always what many of us believe supercar-- the F40. Ferrari never let journalists because it was slower than But nearly 20 years after the matter now. Instead, all I can see is a block from a Formula One car suspension sprouting from the gearshift paddles. The 4.7 liter V12 sends 520 through a six speed manual Torque is 347 foot pounds And this is where it struggles massive 426 foot pounds. It's also heavier, at 1,250 standards, it's still Up close, the F50 is The carbon Kevlar body panels wheels plane delicious, hours to drink in. The seats are fantastically Even the rake adjuster has a on the oil filler. The way you can peer through engine is pure Ferrari And the electronic dash sci-fi in the mid '90s. The quality stands out, too. The F50 is beautifully The window rubbers are neat. The doors close with Next to it, the F40 looks Really, it does, only one But wasn't that always It was made for driving, and The proportions of the F40 Next to it, the F50 somehow The F40 is a tiny machine mesmerizingly pretty. It's 478 horsepower is a little claimed output, but most experts cars always have over 500 And the twin turbocharged 2.9 As we said, 426 foot pounds. And it only had to shunt 1,100 No wonder Ferrari didn't next to the new F50. The fit and finish are Luckily, the cabin is so bare But what you do understand is the seat, the steering wheel, are all judged to perfection. No other car gives quite the importance. And that's what makes Now I've driven an F40 before, absolutely spat one This is bucket list stuff. What's it going to be like? The F50 is a surprisingly But it's very accurate, It feels like a little It doesn't want to It wants you to treat it with What's this thing going I'm led to believe they are [LAUGHS] [YELLS] Yes! What have we got, Jesus Christ, the boost. Yes. This is a serious car-- nothing nothing like the throttle It's an animal. But it's so agile. And it just throws And you shouldn't be able to do You just think about your Look at that! [YELLS] Gear shift, lovely. Not as mechanical as the F50's, the torque, oh, it's It's just got so much You can see why they didn't because this is quicker. The old car is quicker. I need one of these. This is the car I've all my life, I think. It's a totally hooligan, connected, and it's beautiful. And it's fast. And it's a challenge. And it's got a stick. And I'm in love! Brakes are good. I mean, what was the performance Yes. And it just surges. It couldn't be more different You pin the throttle, wait for because it's so mechanical the throttle steady, it still adds terrifying. Wow. What a car. What did they think when They must have looked around as well give up. [LAUGH] This is the one. This is the one This I've never driven a Ferrari Let's try an debunk some of considered too slow, and the F40, and not even with a McLaren F1. I think some of that is That noise! Wow! Is all I can say. Wow. Manual gear change. I don't want to talk. I just want to enjoy But I have to talk, so first the block, is from a I rips at 85,000 RPM, It's a carbon tub, and the rear from the back of the engine This is just-- this is why we love cars, Why didn't people love It's extraordinary. Oh! No ABS, no nothing. Sportscars should The chassis, well, quite a bit I'm sure you can dull some of The steering is quite slow. It's unassisted. It's heavy. But it is a little bit But I just love it-- the Just roll off the break And I watch this [INAUDIBLE] flicking up to 85,000 Wow! Just wow! God knows how fast we're It's like a racing car. It feels like a racing car. The engine is from I wish it didn't have this sort under steer, but I'm sure some get rid of that. You just have to not hurry Get it into the turn. Use that amazing traction It's a real challenge But as you can see, I [BLEEP] love it. This car is why I love cars. It's extraordinary. It's alive. Now, as you can see, I got moment with both I did my best to try and break But there's more I need sort of, wetting myself. The F50 is a stunner. It has the most desirable power Really, it does. It's not the fastest. But the way it revs, the noise the best of the best. You could see I was struggling but that was as much my fault adjustment to the linkage. On the road, I thought the F50 because the engine only really And you just can't It also feels vast But I'm so glad I've driven one you, it's a truly, In many ways it's more but not greater. The F40 is the supercar It isn't normally aspirated. And yet it's turbocharging The only thing it really lacks believe me when I say that it life than it does on this film, another league for I could go on about I really could. Quite simply, to me. It's the one-- on road, on track, frankly, There's on aspect of the F40 absolutely fascinating. And that is it feels But what did it feel And there's only one man He's a bloke that I used to He's someone that inspired me He's called Mark Hales. What he doesn't know about worth knowing. And he's driving the So what are the fundamental one is normally aspirated. One is turbocharged, heavily They are quite different but they are a celebration that's right about Ferrari. And I love the fact that he gets the corner. And then, when I'm accelerating this boost. And I can just fly This is so much faster It's basically holding me I'm following an F50, and I'm I'm off! So once we've stopped having on for some time, I want to what it was like. MARK HALES: Utter privilege. CHRIS HARRIS: So Mark, when did And just tell me what it was vehicle the first time you extraordinary car now. I can't even begin to think what MARK HALES: It was completely And I didn't really know And it was Nick Mason's car. And it was about it And he'd just got it. He got one of the And we made an audio tape. That shows you how It was a cassette tape for And I just rang him up and said, And he went, uh, yes. And he brought it to Donington And he said, well, there And I said, don't you And he said, no, no, I'm going Let me know when you're done. And it was brand new. But on track, it was And it's the way it delivers Because you could just drive And as long as you don't prod boost, it's just like driving, ordinary car. But when it lit up, and you and occasionally even in fourth absolutely extraordinary. And it was, then, and remains exciting cars I've CHRIS HARRIS: That cassette had a profound effect Because we didn't have We didn't have videos. And suddenly, to be introduced medium to hear the car. And I remember that I have a copy still. And I remember you getting, of cars, there was a Cosworth, Sport, which I went on to own your sloppy seconds I just remember-- something got big on you. Some boost comes in. There's a girl in the MARK HALES: That's CHRIS HARRIS: And you're And you say the boost And then you hear this And there's silence And she goes, ooh! And you say, yes, that's MARK HALES: Yeah, well the raw because it was Becki Adam. And she was one of the first And she was going, ooh, ooh! And they said, Mark, what And you couldn't leave it in, ridiculous. So all that had to be cut out. But yeah. And it was the sort of thing, and still-- I can do a march and brundle and ridiculous angle, and But when it lit up, you And went quiet. CHRIS HARRIS: And the time, a sport you had was a Carrera with So that has 231 horsepower. And it weighed 1,100 and And you've got the same curb horsepower. MARK HALES: But it's not And I don't think Ferrari honest about the power. I think it was always a lot But it's the torque. And it's quite a big 2.8 liters or something. And you've got two turbos. But it's the way it comes on. So it feels much more than 500 And the car is quite light. Because the thing about them is stripped down, and intended And Ferrari wanted to keep What are they? About 1,100 kilos CHRIS HARRIS: A little MARK HALES: 1,200, but Because you've got You've got no power steering. I mean, it's got air I'd forgotten about that, But there's no ABS. There's nothing. There's no driver aid. So it's really, really So not only is fantastically you're intimately connected You really feel the steering. And it was like it was going the same time. So yeah, it was a tremendous It still is exciting today first got in it. CHRIS HARRIS: Did you think Did you think to yourself, I can average punter than can afford do in this car? MARK HALES: Well, I do remember no matter how much I thought I just went up too quickly. And I drove Nick's car it was a filming session for Nick and I did. And in fourth gear, somewhere or something like that, just feed it in now. And I think I must second time in the rain. And it just-- and it was one it wasn't a spin where, you know, now I have It just went [ZAP SOUND], top down the track. When it rained, it was just wheel spin built so quickly. And if you thought, well, I'll it won't be so fierce, that made would still spin up-- CHRIS HARRIS: Just at MARK HALES: Yeah, the tires So you went round quicker. It's the intimacy of the thing, you're so connected to interference. There's the F50 over there, but it was just like driving compared with this. This was just so tremendously It remains one of my absolute, CHRIS HARRIS: I think today I've And I need to go away and think it's a magnificent driving It's intimidating, but I don't know many cars that can think, right, you are with And then, five minutes later, gear near the lock stops coming thinking, this shouldn't I'm buzzing. I'm ticking. The onboard is ludicrous. There's no facts in Sorry about that, guys. I'm just basically whooping And I've loved it. We're going to have But, well, there you go. That's what it was like it came out it '89. MARK HALES: Still is. CHRIS HARRIS: Yeah, and you an idea of what it's like it remains &quot;the&quot; car.