- In Washington, the Washington Post had a really interesting piece a giant profile, and my friend Steve Pearlstein wrote this, &quot;Lina Khan, the crusading chair of the Federal Trade Commission, who at the age of 35 has and legal wonder kinned of a new progressive movement determined to break the economic and political power of big There's a lot to digest in that, but cult hero is kind of an - Well first of all, let to be here and you to be in this role, especially in our economy and in our democracy. - You know, the big tech is where I wanted to start you know, you've talked a lot of big tech and the dangers in big tech, and you said something provocative that caught my eye about the way big tech is impacting where I've lived for a long time at the Digital Context you said historically we've for policy makers to play an active role in that an independent free Is big tech making an And if so, what can the FTC do about that? - So there's no doubt that we've seen enormous dislocations across sectors, but perhaps no because of the rise of And there were a couple of aspects of that that were quite significant. One was, we went from a to advertise on the Wall Street Journal, if you wanted to reach Wall you had to place an ad on to a regime instead where you now have these dominant middlemen that are tracking people across devices. And that's created a very I think, significant ramifications We've also saw a lot of and concentration of power. The Justice Department right Google for basically making that they allege have now monopolized the digital ad tech suite in ways that is now and advertisers alike. And so overall, we've seen and dominant intermediaries are taking a bigger and bigger cut at the and the consumers. And that's a trend that but in all sorts of other contexts. - And does the rise of AI make that problem inevitably I mean, I know for example, that Scarlett Johansson &quot;ChatGPT asks for permission I didn't give it, they seem What is the danger to content producers and their revenue stream from the AI introduction into this space? - So we see across the you know, people's content. The FTCA couple of months with creators, with VO who all shared that, you and felt that their life's by these models. Nobody had asked them, they And all of a sudden, some of these models were now spitting back in competition with them. And so we see huge potential that people have created. And I think there are implications as well. And so in some ways that's just a continuation In some ways it's different. I think we're also seeing the possibility that the web is gonna rather than open. And I think that's a risk that we need to be vigilant about as well. - You know, it's interesting, I did an experiment this morning. I wrote a column for for like 29 years and I assume that's all And I went on ChatGPT and said, &quot;Write a general left side column.&quot; And it instantly spit out pretty vapid and maybe that but plausible copy. So, what rights that I in that process. - So look, from a law enforcement matter, you'd wanna look at this in There's no doubt that, you where people have shared their and have not signed off to train the models. And so in some instances we're seeing now retroactive changes to terms of service or policy saying now say we can use all of your the photos you loaded the videos of your kids, to be fed into our models. And I think that's where people that that's not really And oftentimes they feel that they don't have recourse, right? I mean some of these for navigating day-to-day life. And so if the choice, &quot;Choice&quot; you're being presented with is, you know, sign off on not but all of that data being or a forego using these services entirely, I think that's a really - The question that arises if that's the problem? And you made a speech recently our remedies, our will continue requiring that firms delete models trained in addition to the data itself. So how do you do that that you actually have at your disposal? 'Cause this is a very - So lemme just say that to step back, I think in Washington there's that we can't as a government and stand out of the way. I think that was the during Web 0.2.0 and that's had some pretty in terms of people's privacy, of the independent press. And so there is a desire to You're right that in some ways but we have to make sure of the past, both in the privacy space but also the antitrust There's no inevitable outcome and as a society can help make decisions and choices that are gonna on a path that actually where a handful of companies and more from society, from creators and people feel they don't have recourse. At the FTC, we enforce both the antitrust and consumer protection laws. We've been very active on both fronts and I would say on the antitrust side, we are scrutinizing the to the compute and cloud trying to understand what are of each of these layers in layers where you are already or a handful of companies How do we make sure that's not being used such that innovators and entrepreneurs are gonna be locked out? I went to Silicon Valley a few months ago and I heard a tremendous from a lot of founders and startups, especially about the which has historically been But there was also some apprehension in part because there was a recognition that right now the raw material for a lot of these tools is in the hands of a very small number of companies. And so who's even getting who's getting access to All of that seems very opaque to a lot of the founders in startups. And I think there's a concern that especially if you and conflicts of interest, there could be discrimination, so that the big guys at the expense of everybody else. - Well is that the logical, of this process that the become the big players in Or is there a path that's - I think this is where you need to look at each layer of the stack. And so for example, we see, you know, significant consolidation in You basically have three Right now, we see in the chips layer as well. And we need to understand is there a path for injecting more At the very least, we need to make sure that these firms are not or market power that that dominance or to exclude competitors. Historically, we've also when we've dealt with of consolidation and so be it we've had certain tools in okay, there's gonna be a of scale here and what is that power is not being abused. And so we've had things like that said you have to treat when they're asking for service. We've had things like that said if you own the rails, you can't also then go own the coal mines because then you're obviously your own coal and leave everybody's else. We've had mandated interoperability to inject more competition. So I think we need to be and competition tools are critical, but we need to potentially set of tools if what we're dealing with in some of these layers is huge fixed costs, major barriers to entry that do risk, you know, entrenching the power - But it seems complicated the FTCs job is not to enforce intellectual copyrights. If you don't have that what do you resort to, what - So the FTC Act prohibits and unfair or deceptive act or practices. And so you can imagine, you or information is being and then is being used in and to dislodge them from the market and divert businesses, in some cases that could be an I think we've also seen a lot about unfairness. If firms are making one when you're signing up to use them, but then are secretly or quietly using the be it your personal data, the proprietary data, your if they're then using to compete with you, that can also raise legal concerns. But you're absolutely right that the FTC is just one agency out of many government players that have an important role to play here. - You know, the classic is for a regulator, the desire to make sure but at the same time to recognize that there's a whole new technology here that has enormous economic and that is already So how do you stop the the innovation and the creativity that AI can produce in the - That's such an important point. And for me, our history as a country is really relevant here, right? Because if you look at of major technological inflection points, be it the telecommunications revolution, be it the internet revolution, we as a country applied a which said we need to have markets that allow the best ideas to win, especially when those ideas are introducing breakthrough innovations that are gonna deliver enormous growth. What we need to make sure that might feel threatened by some of these newcomers are not in of the market in the first place. And so the government's and AT&amp;T, you know, in the last century, even the government's ended up being really to make sure at the very are not able to trample on any newcomers and any new innovations that could deliver a lot of those benefits. And so I think we need of the national champion arguments that you hear saying you have to let the big guys stay ahead, you need to let them You need to shut out open because that's the only on the global stage. I think historically those when we've doubled down and locked out competitors. And so I think that's something we need to be extremely vigilant - I wanna leave some time for So lemme just ask you about before we move on. You've spent a lot of time, working on non-compete clauses. Why is that such a high and what does the early rounds tell you about the legal prospects for doing what you're - So this work preceded We had had certain workshops and tried to understand how prevalent our non-competes, right? These are closets that but over the last couple of decades have really across sectors, across income levels. So we're talking fast food janitors, as well as scientists, doctors. So we proposed a rule based that has shown that Interestingly, not just for by a non-compete, but also Because if you have less if you have people who are not with employers and are instead trapped, that's gonna be bad for workers as a whole because there's just less opportunity. We've also seen evidence that this is harmful to competition. The FTC has heard from about how non-competes to either go launch their own business. We actually got a lot of &quot;You know, I work for an employer that candidly is not doing a great job. I have ideas for how I could at a better price, but I'm not able to go because of a non-compete.&quot; We heard from a lot of entrepreneurs about how non-competes had because the relevant Interestingly, a lot of this that have restricted non-compete. So, California for over a are non-enforceable. We've also seen states like Oklahoma and North Dakota really curb non-competes and a whole set of other And so that created a natural experiment where researchers were able to of non-competes and then and all of this research showing it's having a detrimental but also critically for We're losing out on we're losing out on new innovation. And so we were really pleased to be able to put forward this role. - Let me, let me ask you finally just to talk a little more broadly about your philosophy here because, you know, at the outset I quoted &quot;You're a cult hero.&quot; One place you're probably not and executive boardrooms. And some of your critics would say, you don't really believe in free markets for the capitalist system. Clinton and Obama advisor, has been quoted as saying policies amount to, &quot;Almost Is it a war on business? - Look competition and free and fair competition is to have free markets and a because what you want is for new ideas and entrepreneurs to have and to be able to compete on the merits of their ideas, right? I mean that's really has been essential for America's prosperity, for the innovations that and a system instead where of concentrated control, basically a closed and centralized system that's not the recipe And so making sure we're having open, fair, honest, is so essential and it's absolutely critical I mean, we hear a lot from executives at businesses, who say, you know, I'm trying but here I am having to that overnight can change the algorithm and all of a sudden I have I mean, that type of and the arbitrariness that comes with it, I think is really hostile and that's what we're - Let me see if there are questions here. I'll start on the aisle there and I would just remind people that a question actually at the end of it. So... (audience laughing) - [Chris] Hi, good morning. Chris Burns with the Second City. As an arts organization, learning off of artistic works And so I'm interested Many would argue that the from things that they see and experience and that copyright infringement not at inspiration, but if we change it to being prohibited from learning are we changing the where - So it's a really interesting question and I know there are copyright experts, including at the copyright office that are thinking about and, you know, what does copyright For us at the FTC, I mean, what we've heard they're excited about AI, they see that there What they are really where their productions, and lifted without any without any consent, and with very little recourse, right? I mean, once you creations have it's actually pretty difficult And so I think making sure we on the front end, I have been entering into agreements and, you know, making sure and compensation on the front end. I think that's gonna be an to copyright experts on But making sure that move fast break things, type mode here is gonna be important. - We'll go there and - [Speaker] Excuse me. - [Wayne] Wayne Heppler, I'm a college professor from Baltimore. Thank you for coming here. I know you do a lot of interviews and answer the same Thank you for coming. Thank you for being a very popular topic in my college classroom. I appreciate that. And my question. We've heard a lot about possibility of overreach on the FTC today. I'm sure it's not a new topic to you. I'm curious what the nature of between you and President (audience laughing) - That's an easy one. - So look, it's such an and, you know, the president on economic policy. And the executive order that he signed in 2021 for the last 40 years we've been enforcing the antitrust laws and competition policy in a way that has taken us astray and we've seen so much more consolidation and this has been bad and we need to really our anti-monopoly and antitrust laws. He charged the FTC and DOJ with that, but he also charged other be it the Department of Transportation, the Department of Agriculture, And so we see right now a to make sure the economy and that it's serving rather than, you know, a And so, you know, that's the of the administration's work on economics. - Okay, the clock says One more. Briefly, I'm in charge. Okay. - [Speaker 2] I think the - That's right. - [Speaker 2] We are Is there any thought to and rethinking the to modernize it and make with the very different challenges that we're facing in the 21st century? - So there are a set of that very question at the FTC, we are gonna focus on but when we see that it's important to me that we're to inform their approach. I think as we're seeing, you know, these new AI tools hit the market, that's again catalyzing how do we make sure the laws for purpose in the 21st century. - I would just add good luck of legislation through Congress so... (audience laughing) Then you will be a cult