Welcome back to the channel! Today, I'm one of my favorite topics. To make it more it's going to be this guy, Klein. What a nice chap! The first reason that full-stack is back is let me tell you a story. This is going to be with normal interest rates. This was what 2008 when you had that Lehman Brothers inspired You had a boss who was an owner. He ran the decisions. He says, &quot;I need an app built, but could be pound or dollars, doesn't really matter. So he says, &quot;I only have 300K&quot; and he says to his And this dude comes along, the middle leave it to me. I'll get the right people on the 300K won't get me very far. I'm going to need So, our trusty hero, the full-stack Dev, comes actually build an entire app and put it on the He says, &quot;Hi, I'm a full-stack developer. I'll He's the full-stack Dev, makes 200k, he gets app done. But that middle manager there goes, So, when interest rates were normal this happened. The boss spends 300K, the because he's providing most of the value, gets 200K. And that is how the world used However, 2008 happened and now we had low interest rates. And then it got even it got even lower and got even worse. Anyway, The boss here now says, &quot;I need an app built, I now have 1,000K or a million buckaroos he's even changed his posture. So he says, &quot;Trusty And the manager goes, &quot;Yeah, baby! Yeah, boss, So he says, &quot;A million. I've got 1,000K. I can loads left afterwards. Getting my son.&quot; So he FSE stack Dev says, &quot;I'm a full-stack developer. half the budget of the project and this guy So, why not get half of it? And the response, &quot;No.&quot; The middle manager says, &quot;No. I have So he phones up his friendly recruiter and I need a whole Dev team for this The recruiter brings in the UX designer business analyst another 100K. Keeps Can you build an app with these four people? so you need a full-time DBA to check your stored 100K. Infrastructure engineer, let's why not? 100K. And you got to throw in the But somebody's missing. Who's this little gap in and he says, &quot;You want a job? I've got a job. You got to work with these seven other people, but you're now the back-end Dev. I'll give So, after all of that excitement, this cheap money environment, the boss or the owner and our full-stack hero only is being used against him. There's But now, interest rates are high again. You know, it's up to like 5% in some countries since this is what is happening. The boss says, I've only got 200K.&quot; He's down from the 300. &quot;Yeah, trusty manager, can you get the app it's a bit tight. I hope there's some left can't you? So he phones up his full-stack I'm a full-stack developer. That's the whole thing. His prices haven't so he still needs the same amount of and it's a banging result, he gets his 200K, app. And the middle manager is like, &quot;Oh So we're in a tight, high-interest rate, expensive the owner, only has 200K. He doesn't have his app that needs built, but he only has 200K to that's his value. He builds the entire thing, sadly, makes zero. And that's If you're finding this entertaining, don't people that find this entertaining, can also find it entertaining. Let's carry Here we go, here we go, so, reason can fill in everywhere. So, let's favorite game to play is the thought what happens if you basically Thanos So, remember these guys. We got a poor but he's been pigeonholed as a back-end some of these people? Can the software Okay, so we get rid of whoever that was. Who was still be built? Yes, probably the back-end, do a database schema. That's 10% of his job. The business analyst is gone. Can the still talk to the business owners and get user Next to go then was that, the UX designer. Well, app. Maybe it only has 50 users, or you can just or whatever. And then the front-end Dev, or rather Who's next? Oh, the infrastructure engineer. He's for this app. You'll just have to deploy it or something normal like people used to he's gone. Uh-oh, that sounds like a big hero do some front-end? Yes, he's Who's next? The architect. Who's going to He's obviously going to write the documentation. and the architect was just going to approve this guy is probably the guy you should bit of a separation of concerns. But he's gone. Who's going to test it? Probably So, what you have now is the He's still left. He could actually he could do. And that is the reason Next up, reason number three. Full-stack at using AI tools. It's another story. Oh no, it's had a great idea. He says, &quot;I'm going to get my galaxy brain thought there Anyway, so, first up, front-end Dev. &quot;Build me a front-end.&quot; And the front-end Dev says to the AI, he might get what he needs. He might even drop But to the full-stack Dev, the yeah, call yourself a full-stack Dev. Build me a &quot;Yes, build me a React to-do app using understands a middle tier, he can give the like, &quot;Make it connect to the API back-end blah, blah,&quot; and therefore, he is much more because he understands the full stack, and That was therapeutic. Thank you for listening. why not hit the like button? If you disagree which is the secret code for disliking feel free to go in the comments I love your comments and I do try That's my thoughts on why full-stack development is having a comeback and is