Hi there, Leila here. So today, I want to how do I delete blank rows in my dataset? right? To select the entire blank row, right-mouse want to do this manually, especially if I want to show you three different ways you can way. I'm curious what yours is going to be, The first method is super fast; it takes under 20 is to find your identifier or identifying in this dataset, whenever the date here in this Date column, I want to delete the entire for example, here, I don't want to delete my identifier is going to be the Date column. Now, the next thing you need to do is select bottom of this dataset, Ctrl + Shift, and then select everything in between. Now, you're going OK this. Don't click anywhere, go directly to the and all those blank rows are gone. You can get done. So let me show you that version too. After press Ctrl + G to get to Go To, Alt press Enter. We can see the cell selected. To arrow down, Entire row, and Enter, Method number two is the filter way. Now, identifier column, and you want to make sure empty before you delete it. So, for example, and I definitely don't want to delete this as my identifier. And let's say I can't use sometimes location might be empty, sometimes sure that every single cell in a specific Before you activate Filter, you need to add a Now, we are going to use the COUNTA function. anything that's in a column, whether it's a these cells in the same row, close bracket, press We're just going to copy this all the way down, dataset. Whenever we're dealing with a blank Now, we're going to activate Filter, or just go to Data and select Filter. Then, uncheck Select All, place a check mark so let's Ctrl + Shift + down to select Delete, Delete Sheet Rows, or you can or use the shortcut key Ctrl + minus to delete to Ctrl + Shift + L this again to remove and we've left everything else where it should be. Save the best for last, right? The third way is this is my favorite method because it's dynamic, works. We are going to go to the bottom of our we're even going to account for future data. the bottom here, so let's just go to row 200. so Ctrl + Shift + the Home key to select go with From Table/Range. But here's the problem: my source data into an official Excel table. just go ahead and click OK. But sometimes I don't want Excel to convert this data into a So what I'm going to do is cancel this. Instead, the Name Box--and I'm going to give this range a it whatever you want--just don't put any spaces named range. So the moment you click on this, so it's not going to convert your dataset to click away and your range isn't dropdown here. You're going to see your named everything selected. Then go and click on From and it's going to send that named range into Remove Blank Rows. That's it. We're going and it's going to load our clean data on a new all the blank rows. Now, you can adjust the look styles, so I'm just going to go and remove The cool thing about this, remember, is if I just go all the way to the bottom here, and let's just copy this last batch and paste So we have new data added to the bottom of row here in between. Now, I'm going to go to you can rename this to whatever you want. We say right-mouse click, Refresh, and the new data shows If, though, at any point in time, you want to want to have this as standalone and not dynamic here, right-mouse click, and delete this query, source data. But the great thing about having it consume the end result. Do you want to have it a Pivot Table? In that case, you just need to and select PivotTable Report. When you OK this, going to put a Pivot Table here, it's going to be go with OK, and now we have a clean data source I'm really curious though, which method you like Now, I personally love Power Query because I find with just knowing a little bit about it, you can food type--and I'm kind of obsessed with food right some muscle, so I'm watching what I eat--and I was it would be one of those highly nutritious you want to be healthy. Just with a little bit Now, if you're interested in learning Power Query, offer. We do have a Power Query course that takes the thing with Power Query is that you don't even go to advanced. After you cover the beginner and it just opens all these new opportunities if you also want to learn about pivot tables we recently released a new course Okay, so check those out if you're interested to learn more. Thank you for being here. Thank you for watching all the way to the end and I'm going to catch you in the next video.