What is the largest star in the universe and why is it that large? And what are stars anyway? Things That Would Like To Be Stars We begin our journey with Earth. Not to learn anything, just to get a vague sense of scale. The smallest things that have are large gas giants, or sub-brown dwarfs. Like Jupiter, the most massive Eleven times larger and 317 and more or less, made of Just much, much less of it. The transition towards stars failed stars, that are a huge They have between 13 and 90 So even if we took 90 Jupiters and although fun to watch, it wouldn't be enough to create a star. Interestingly, adding lots of mass doesn't make it much bigger, just its insides denser. This increases the pressure to make certain nuclear fusion and the object glow a little. So brown dwarfs are a sort of glowy that don't fit into any category very But we want to talk about stars, not failed wannabe stars, so let's Main Sequence Stars Once large gas balls pass a certain their cores become hot and dense Hydrogen is fused to helium in their releasing tremendous amounts of energy. Stars that do that are called The more massive a main sequence star is, the hotter and brighter it burns, and the shorter its life is. Once the hydrogen-burning phase is over, stars grow up to hundreds of But these giant phases only last for a So we'll be comparing stars at different stages in their lives. This doesn't make them less impressive, but maybe it's good to keep in mind comparing babies to adults. Now back to the beginning, the smallest real stars are red dwarfs. About 100 times the mass of Jupiter; barely massive enough to fuse Because they are not very massive they are small, not very hot, and shine They are the only stars in the main don't grow once they die but sort of fizzle out. Red dwarfs are by far the most abundant type in the universe, because they burn their fuel so slowly, it lasts them up to ten trillion years - a thousand times the current age of For example, one of the closest stars Barnard's Star, but it shines too dimly to be seen We made a whole video on red dwarfs The next stage are stars like our Sun. To say the Sun dominates the solar system is not doing it justice since it makes up 99.86% of all its mass. It burns far hotter and brighter than which reduces its lifetime to about 10 The Sun is 7 times more massive than but that makes it nearly 300 times twice its surface temperature. Let's go bigger! Small changes in mass produce enormous changes in a main sequence star's The brightest star in the night sky, with a radius 1.7 times that of the Sun, but its surface is nearly 10,000degC, making it shine 25 times brighter. Burning THAT hot reduces its total lifespan by 4 times to 2.5 billion years. Stars close to 10 times the mass of have surface temperatures near 25,000degC. Beta Centauri contains two of these each shining with about 20,000 times That's a lot of power coming from something only 13 times larger, but they'll only burn for about 20 Entire generations of the blue stars it takes for the Sun to orbit the galaxy So is this the formula? The more massive, the larger the star. The most massive star that we know It has 315 solar masses and is nearly 9 million times brighter And yet, despite its tremendous mass it's barely 30 times the size of the Sun! The star is so extreme and barely held that is loses 321 thousand billion tons of material through its stellar wind every single second. Stars of this sort are extremely rare break the rules of star formation a When supermassive stars are born they burn extremely hot and bright and this blows away any extra gas that could make them more massive. So the mass limit for such a star is around 150 times the Sun. Stars like R136a1 are probably formed the merger of several high mass stars in dense star-forming regions and burn their core hydrogen in only So this means they are rare and short From here the trick to going bigger To make the biggest stars we have to kill them. Red Giants When main sequence stars begin to exhaust the hydrogen in their core it contracts making it hotter and denser. This leads to hotter and faster fusion which pushes back against gravity and makes the outer layers swell in a And these stars become truly giant indeed. For example, Gacrux. Only 30% more massive than the Sun, it has swollen to about 84 times its Still, when the Sun enters the last it will swell and become even bigger; 200 times its current radius! In this final phase of its life it will swallow the inner planets. And if you think THAT'S impressive let's finally introduce the largest stars Hypergiants Hypergiants are the giant phase of the They have an enormous surface area that can radiate an insane amount of Being so large they're basically as gravity at the surface is too weak to which is lifted away in powerful stellar Pistol Star is 25 solar masses but 300 times the radius of the sun; a blue hypergiant aptly named for its It's hard to say exactly how long Pistol but probably just a few million years. Even larger than the blue hypergiants are the yellow hypergiants. The most well studied is Rho Cassiopeiae; a star so bright it can be seen with the it's thousands of lightyears from Earth. At 40 solar masses, this star is around 500 times the and 500,000 times brighter. If the Earth were as close to Rho it'd be inside it and you would be very Yellow hypergiants are very rare though. Only 15 are known. This means they're likely just a as a star grows or shrinks between With red hypergiants we reach the Probably the largest stars even possible! So who's the winner of this insane Well the truth is we don't know. Red hypergiants are extremely bright which means the even tiny can give us a huge margin of error for Worse still are solar system sized that are blowing themselves apart which makes them harder to measure. As we do more science and our whatever the largest star is will change. The star that is currently thought to is Stephenson 2-18. It was probably as a main sequence of times the mass of the sun and has likely lost about half its mass While typical red hypergiants are 1500 the largest rough estimate places and shining with almost half a million By comparison the Sun seems like a Our brains don't really have a way of Even at lightspeed it would take you The fastest plane on Earth would take Dropped on the Sun it would fill As it evolves it would probably shed and shrink down into another hotter accumulate heavy elements in its core, before finally exploding in a core giving its gas back to the galaxy. This gas will then go on to form of stars of all sizes. Starting the cycle of birth and death to light up our universe. Let's make this journey again but this time without the talking. The universe is BIG. There are many large things in it. If you want to play a bit more with size we have good news! We've crated our first app, Universe In together with Tim Urban, the brain You can seamlessly travel from the past the coronavirus, human cells and dinosaurs, all the way to the largest stars and marvel at the whole observable You can learn more about each object, or simply enjoy the sheer scale of it all. The app is inspired by the Scale Of by the Huang twins, that we spent a lot of time with when and felt that it was finally time to Wait But Why and Kurzgesagt version. You can get it in your app store, there are no in-app purchases, and no ads. All future updates are included. And since this is our first app we'd love to hear your feedback so we can improve it over time. If this sounds good to you download the Universe In A Nutshell and leave us a 5-star review if you Kurzgesagt and all the projects we do like you! So if you like the app we'll make more Thank you for watching!