Since time immemorial, are used to blending from the African savannah. But in spring, and the earth explodes with 1000 colors. The arid savannah then gives way to a Garden of Eden South Africa than the rest of the continent. From the Kalahari Desert passing through the flowery hills it is a multi-colored universe The southwestern part of the Kalahari Desert, from Botswana, Namibia is the driest part. Despite this, to this hostile environment. They can abstain from drinking Thus, even seemingly fragile species populate the Kalahari. This is the case of the Brants whistling rat ignores the many predators Rather solitary, and the speed of his reflexes At the slightest alert, he takes refuge in one of the 50 underground galleries This also ensures a mild temperature in summer. Reassured, the little rodent Having very rarely the whistling rat relies on plants In season, which he helps to pollinate In the bed of ancient rivers, acacias manage to capture water thanks to their very long roots. These trees provide shade and maintain allowing other plants These attract antelopes, who gather in small groups or females with their young. Accustomed to arid lands, These gazelles can also go without water for a few days if necessary. They find the minimum necessary the leaves or roots Fortunately, several wells allow them to quench their thirst regularly. In parks and nature reserves, help animals because even if storms are common, The riverbed is also crossed little intimidated In addition to the plants They find here what they need to meet their mineral salt needs. On occasion, to swallow a cricket, for example, a good protein intake. These champions of survival in the desert share a great pleasure: the sand baths they use to maintain their plumage. But there are not many suitable locations and these are dearly defended. Due to its large size in the male, This probably explains take advantage of his sentry skills. If an ostrich starts to run away, Here, the largest of birds are often frequented by another In fact, the metabolism of this ruminant but also heat, can climb His long horns It has been proven that an oryx is capable even though he generally prefers to To save their strength The oryx are not very active. Like many bovids, their favorite occupation the other animals get agitated. When they decide to move, that their long horns and arouse the curiosity These very social animals They are naturally suspicious, They are interested in this white-faced bustard. The presence of this male of a female and her egg, But the father seemed determined the omelette will wait. This scene seems to amuse the long-tailed roller, but completely escapes the vulture The wildebeest are less accustomed to extreme drought. This is why the population the most important Those who live here, in herds of only a few dozen individuals, survive thanks to the water point provided. This male can quench his thirst peacefully the harem of his females On land wildebeest spend It suits the business who thus has all the leisure and to learn horse riding. The male wildebeest likes to keep order in his harem and with his young. Especially when danger threatens them. Besides, the herd soon freezes, all senses on alert, because furtively, In this heat, And these are not the protests which will prevent him However, the feline remains on its guard, aware of being surrounded The latter remain hoping that nothing dramatic happens. On the contrary, that a hunt take place, But the leopard and he leaves as silently The relief of some of the scavenger. A pair of battling eagles is the first Soon imitated When the sun finally goes down, the animals are showing themselves Burrowing squirrels because their burrows Once outside, like a parasol. The hot sand doesn't bother them, it's a nice way to get rid of almost all parasites. Having very rarely access to water, juicy plants Finding food while constantly watching his back, takes a lot of time. Fortunately, allows him to locate All that remains is to dig, an escape gallery to his burrow. Occasionally, he may crunch thus imitating the red and black gonolek When everything is quiet, from Bennett's Peak. This male, recognizable maybe trying to attract the attention In any case, he seems soon imitated by the squirrel. Coat or feathers, it doesn't matter, Alas, this evening, which are attracted in order to drink there. The blue-eared starling, which has the habit at sunset, small insects, The air is electric, make a rain offering. After such a restless night, waking up is a little difficult for wildlife. The Cape Turtle Dove fights numbness As soon as the black-backed jackal the starlings The lionesses, they, They would sleep peacefully did not come to sniff here, killed this night. The intruder quickly understands the message Lionesses typically spend Not hunting systematically they are busy either either to save their strength. At any rate, any reason is good to lie down. Africa's largest predator not to be lonely. Lionesses live in sharing kinship ties They are accompanied by a or several males The permanent testimony aims to strengthen good understanding where conflicts This connivance is also advantageous As soon as they cross paths, sniff each other, rub each other and cuddle each other. Thus reassured and the harmony that reigns in their group, Which is not the case for everyone. Indeed, for the young singer, learning to hunt is not easy. Especially when he attacks The insolence of this family of squirrels is just unbearable. The rodents seem to take probably to keep it away However, the bird of prey But the more time passes, the more he gets angry The squirrels, they, From afar, a jackal spotted the scene. He too would love to eat one of these little provocateurs. But these damn rodents from dodging to perfection. Bored by the harassment of the hawk, they will indeed The jackal decides while maintaining his usual air of not touching it. But how knowing that rodents disappear underground in the blink of an eye? It is probably better to change strategy or find something simpler The hawk must resolve to give up the game. He finally settles for insects found in old dung. The jackal decides to be patient. The squirrels finally show themselves undertake to launch When you are so threatened it is wise to continue his lineage. The lions are not impressed by so much agitation. This young male also has nothing quite the contrary. So he fell in love that he does not let go of a claw. Knowing that he only has four days during which there is no time to lose. All in feline sensuality, the lioness The relationship is certainly short-lived, every 20 minutes on average, The young lion is completely disoriented. So much the better. This gives him an additional excuse to rest. If fertilization has taken place the lioness will isolate herself from her companions She will alert them alone where the other lionesses will participate In front of them, the lions perceive which emanates from the nest These passerines endemic live in colonies They share a gigantic common nest arranges one from below. The nest consists of a dense mass of dry grass can reach several meters and weigh more than a ton. Over the years, their weight can go so far as to break the tree or the electric pole In the northwest of South Africa, gives way to the rocky landscape of the Karoo. In the local language, Bushy vegetation and a few succulent plants Rain is rare and no river And yet... And yet, from South Africa passes here. Born 1500 kilometers further east, in the Drakensberg Mountains, crisscrosses the desert at the bottom of the gorges. As if by miracle, It is 60 meters above the waves, the mating parades Who else but lizards On the top of the plateau, to seep into the ground. When evaporation The puddles thus formed allow the survival of animals Vervet monkeys which allows them to enjoy and insects in the trees, but also puddles of water As is often the case It is important to build social bonds. Every morning therefore begins The work is thankless, to experience in turn The more conscientious the partner, The ceremony completed, the vervets go Omnivores, they appreciate plants, insects and small reptiles. Trees provide berries, eggs to monitor their territory. They sometimes to suck the gum and the insects that got stuck in it. In short, with the exception of hierarchical conflicts between males, vervets A small antelope to life on the rocks, the klipspringer. Equipped with pointed hooves, they seem to move This allows it to be very comfortable Usually living as a couple This solitary female because there are few predators here capable of chasing her along the cliff face. At the end of August, at the beginning of the southern spring, If the few winter rains the grayish soil gives birth The rockery is covered with flowers. The coolness of the night has deposited the dew and the petals of the daisies than the sun's rays to open. For the fauna that has endured so much it is a period of grace Food becomes more abundant. In such a setting, it is surprising to see oryx. These animals, typical of arid zones, are enjoying a few weeks of respite. Having no water point They feed mainly in the morning to enjoy the dew Even though flowers the most spectacular, houses in total of which almost a third are unique Moreover, except for the discreet leopard, All the conditions are therefore met can ruminate peacefully. However, the six weeks that the flowering period lasts should not make us forget and that only well-adapted animals So we find the Klipspringer there, in mountainous regions. Flower petals are a real dessert thorny shrubs. Cautious, the couple shares While one keeps watch, This arrangement in the couple seems beneficial Rare phenomenon among antelopes. Further west, carpets of flowers to enrich itself with new colors. Faced with such a debauchery the South African ploughshare tortoise where to turn. She wants to reach without staying too long in the open. The booted eagle would be tempted It must therefore overcome the obstacle without overturning or getting stuck in the sand. Persevering, the turtle managed to hoist its two kilos onto the soft sand and rushes to safety. the eagle will have to find prey more to its measure, But the body of the cordylus polyzonus he is no less vigilant Besides, he himself since he manages to catch The hardest part is swallowing them, which can take several minutes. To remain discreet the agama atra lizard positions itself He thus has plenty of time which pass within his reach. It's midday that the flowers open fully explode with color. This floral paradise is guarded At the slightest alert, the small mammal The rest of the family It must be said that the presence has something to worry them about. Fortunately, the latter Perhaps it is also the wind that makes the animals so nervous. The ocean is only a few dozen kilometers away and the Benguela Current, which flows up from Antarctica, sometimes causes a freezing wind from South Africa and Namibia. The few springboks But the white-faced bustard There are some that the wind does not disturb. It's the hartebeest. Thanks to the narrowness of its snout, it can select precisely the grasses that interest him. Then, once satisfied, he lets himself be intoxicated by the wind and leads his whole tribe After having gone around the valley twice at more than 60 kilometers per hour the hartebeest had a good time. All he has to do now is catch his breath and above all, consumed during the race. Now that calm has returned, Always on the alert, anything that passes under their beaks, but also insects As the sun descends on the horizon, in an orange aura, The wind has died down than by the characteristic cry of guinea fowl. 100 kilometers further south, totally different. A forest of aloe dichotoma. This species of aloe is relatively rare, because it only grows and on very specific terrains. The trunk growth is slow. However, the largest specimens This dimension is exceptional which must fight against the drying out of its leaves. In this rocky landscape, where you least expect it. When it cannot reach a river, and stagnates in puddles Immediately, In some areas, the presence of water to attract waders When it can neither flow nor soak into the ground, the water forms small pools It is in this reed bed decided to settle down. The Cape Weaver is in full nesting season is at its peak. The aim of this frenzy is to attract as many females as possible. For this, the weaver knows that they cannot resist To increase his chances, he builds as many works as possible. Right next to it, also uses his talents as an architect. Each of these females He begins to wedge a rod in it with all the dexterity To consolidate he wants to bind several reeds together. Thanks to a coating of knotted herbs, he tries to attract a first reed But his attachment doesn't hold. There is indeed Right next door, single-colored euplects In this season, brown like that of females to dress in black There is something to be proud of. However, it is above all that euplects count The next day the wind stopped. This Cape weaver is showing a female around its nests, hoping she will find one to her liking. Alas, she did not stay. Persevering, he takes advantage of it to do And here comes the female. She had just gone The nest is adopted. The mountainous plateaus receive oceanic weather and the flowers are all the more abundant. The farmland is then frequented by paradise cranes. A beautiful bird that is unfortunately becoming even in South Africa, Is it related to the winds that irritate them? or the fact that they are Still, some cranes seem to be in a belligerent mood. In the next field, the sacred ibises They are looking for insects But the wind of these high plateaus they decide to change site. By gaining flowery plains the ibises are found in the company Unlike the others, to wetlands, insects that they find near herds of cattle or antelopes. Their keen eyesight allows them to spot the smallest insect several meters away. The presence of herons guards cattle indicates that this meadow is frequented by large herbivores. Indeed, zebras, springboks and wildebeests Food is plentiful tempered by the proximity brings an invigorating air. A relatively rare animal in the Cape region, This antelope was hunted so much disappear in the 19th century. The approximately 3,000 individuals are now protected. Also, this male can feast young shoots out of the corner of my eye. For these two oryx, because they regularly have to defend through ritual challenges. When one of the two the fight stops immediately from the winner's territory. There is no real violence but simply the need The South African ploughshare tortoise, solitary animal, In this dense vegetation she pecks her way through, thus combining business with pleasure. Flower petals are a delicacy for her. During its wanderings, facing the elegant plumage a species of pheasant endemic The latter spotted Otherwise more imposing, The Cape elk lives in herds of several dozen individuals. He tolerates the presence of the cattle egret, which is delighted to rid it of its parasites. A group of female accompanied by their young, The males, solitary, wander on their side. This flowery valley for animals This protected area still exists in a nature reserve. Civilization having developed in the regions most favorable to agriculture, most of the wild animals had to take refuge to the north, on the arid lands Fortunately, thanks to the parks and nature reserves animals can continue to pass the torch of life. Forget the thirst, the dust Here, the young Boombox climb green hills, to admire the view. An unimaginable spectacle On the Atlantic coast, as if to push its limits. But in the bays lagoons The pink flamingos to survey the shores. They must spend a lot of time to filter water with their beaks, aquatic invertebrates. On the beach, lets himself go for a few somersaults. Under the mocking gaze Further south, the Cape Peninsula is fully classified in a nature reserve. It is nevertheless surprising to discover It must be said the ostrich is relatively well adapted He regularly to cool off a bit. From the summit, the southwestern tip of the entire African continent is revealed. It benefits but with more atmospheric disturbances due meeting the warm currents and cold Atlantic currents. This results in exceptional bushy vegetation, the fine bumps. This biotope brings together thousands of species of endemic plants 70% of which are unique in the world. It's so many flowers which delight this couple, The bird feeds on the nectar The rufipenne morio, but this female, does not disdain insects Thus stealing a prey coveted by the agama altra lizard. This one undertakes by head movements, pushes him to discretion. Finally, in silence, the sun is setting. The light is adorned of which she has the secret. The kingdom of colors The ocean is made of gold. In southern Africa, However, it can be hostile and its extreme dryness. But everywhere, a fragile life bravely faces the elements. Like this pair of moquin oystercatchers who defy the ocean. Wild animals have no choice. So they persevere, they adapt, they brave danger. Yes, nature can be harsh, cruel and unjust, She manages to take what she needs in all humility. Once filled, Up there, they are content to admire the spectacle.