Past Karmic Account is not just of this lifetime. It is just that we are aware of this lifetime. Let us consider 5 people whom you scolded - your wife, kids and staff. Or suppose it is 6 to 8 people whom you scolded in this lifetime. But we know only about this lifetime. We have done a lot even in our earlier births. Now we cannot map each one and say - I had done this, what is the remedy for it? I had done that, what is the remedy for it? Important is what do I do now? What had I done in the past - we don't have to go there. Because you will only going to pain by seeing that. Past is over. Whatever is finished and we don't have control over - let us not go there. Nothing will come out of it. Absolutely nothing. There is no benefit from thinking of it. It only creates guilt. Today is important because I have the awareness today. Today I have the knowledge. I also have a deeper clarity today, of a law which I knew. I need to use it now. I need to use it now in two ways. First is to pay attention now. On every thought, word and action. And second - whatever is coming towards me Which means if somebody is doing wrong with me If somebody is betraying me, not necessarily those 5 or 6 people. It could be anybody. So if somebody is doing wrong to me How should I face that situation? My focus should be on the present. Not in the past. Give them so much love and happiness now that they forget the past. No need to think of that also. There is no need to go to the past. Why should we not going to guilt? Now how should my every thought, word and action with get radiated, be? Clean and beautiful. If I create guilt along with it How will my thought, word and action become? Even if we leave out word and action, what about thought? It will have pain. So we cannot create guilt. Similarly we cannot afford to create self-guilt or self-criticism. We want to give clean, beautiful energy It cannot be diluted by guilt. No negative elements should be brought in. So don't think about the past. Karmic philosophy does not work like that - that I did this so I should do this now, I did that so it should do that now.. It is not a business deal. This is not to be done. Past is finished. Can't do anything about it. Yes we went on the wrong road Nothing can be done about it. it is done already. Which path should I take now? Then what does repentance mean? It means realisation. It does not mean guilt. What happens when we are guilty? We saw that negative energy depletes soul power. Guilt is not very nice energy. Guilt is self abuse, self anger. So soul power is reducing. But we need that power to do the right Karma in the present. How can we afford to reduce our power? I made a mistake but it is over. finished. Now I start again. Full stop. Now I am not who I used to be. Now I am like this. What I was is also not important. What I did is also not important. What should I do now? We may also see that the past Karmic accounts coming in front of us. This is very important. Because all of us have made many mistakes. We have hurt people. You are looking only at this birth but we have done so much. So much so many times. It is possible that we have murdered somebody in the previous birth. Is it not? We could have done anything. We would have done a lot of good also. Definitely. But we find it difficult when the consequence of wrong karmas come. Is it not? Having this healthy body is a consequence of a good Karma. We are born into a good family, have food to eat, have good jobs, environment is good. Mental health is good. All these are consequences of good Karma but we do not question them. Problem is when an unpleasant situation comes in front of us. Now we need to take care at such moments because There will be a few challenges as we face them. Because our Sanskars will urge us to face the situations differently. That if somebody has wronged me, I should also react. That I should do something to face the person. If someone betrays me, I should retaliate. This problem is going to come. On my own I can take care that my present Karma is good and gives happiness to everyone. It is easy and we can achieve it by paying attention. No lying and no cheating anyone. It is like, if vehicles are coming in only one direction it is easy. To take care of the present Karma. The criticality begins when the past comes in front of us, that too in a big way. Like a huge loss, a huge betrayal Someone may cheat us in a big way. That incident may turn my life upside down, or wreck havoc in my life. During such moments our old Sanskars Tempt us to answer back, react, or retaliate It urges us to betray the person back, take revenge, harm him. Just like in office politics - he spread rumors about me, I will also do it about him. So we will go through this phase. The mind will question - &quot;Only I am supposed to be doing good for everybody?&quot; &quot;People keep hurting me but still I do good for them each time. How can this go on?&quot; Even people around us question our actions - &quot;Why should you always be nice to everyone? How can this go on?&quot; &quot;He is harming you, he is wrong. Why are you kind to him?&quot; These are those critical moments. We need to take care of these moments. That whatever I am doing now and whatever is coming to me now They are a return of my past wrong Karma. There are only a return of my past wrong karma. What had I done and when had I done? Just let it be. That doesn't matter. Wrong is coming to me because I have done something wrong. Regardless of however big the situation in front of me is Now I should not respond to this wrong situation with a wrong karma. If we can take care of this, our past Karmic gets settled. There is no other way. When something wrong happens and I do not responded with the wrong reply Will the Karmic account get closed? Karmic account of a new quality gets created. The old account got settled because it came back. Every moment, the past is coming in front of us. The situation is coming in front of us. How we face it creates our present Karma. This decides my present and future. So when consequence of past wrong Karma comes in front of us, whatever decision we take today And how we respond With that you finish the past and create a new present. If I shot a negative arrow It comes back to me. Do I have the power now - that when the arrow hits you and comes back to me Can I convert it into positive and keep it with me? Negative Arrow is coming to me. Can I convert it to positive and send it back? I don't convert negative into positive. Suppose I am getting a negative arrow from you. I don't convert it. I create a positive arrow In response to it. No, it is a different thing It does not become zero. A few episodes ago you had read out a beautiful quote. How the situation affects you How you react to it are two different things. They are different. First is the effect of the situation. And then your reaction There are two different things. Suppose somebody betrayed me. I got hurt, I cried and I felt bad. This is the situation's effect. If I say - &quot;It is OK I will not do anything.&quot; This is my reaction. So two things happened. First the effect - which was that I felt very bad, created a lot of hurt and anger within me. Now I have two options to respond. Either I also do wrong to you. Or I decide that my present Karma should be right. But I still received the effect of your negative arrow. It harmed me. But I paid attention to what I should now create. Which means we will now start paying attention to both. That the effect of what comes to us also reduces. So that the power required to create a response Power will be higher. Your negative is coming to me How should I face it? Then how to create a positive and send it? If we pay attention to this Then the size does not matter. Some people say somebody cheated them worth lost crores of Rupees. The whole family had to suffer in big ways. A few days ago I was in a programme. She asked if it is necessary to forgive somebody, even if they have done the worst. I told her there is no other way, because you want to settle the Karmic account. Otherwise you send hatred and it'll just continue. She said her brother had murdered her parents. They are from a very nice family. She said she has not spoken to him since 14 years. So the son killed both the parents. She is not even in contact with him for 14 years for that reason. There is a lot of anger and hatred built up within her. We call it natural. She wanted to know what options does she have. I told not that an understanding helps. The parents and the son These three souls had a Karmic account with each other. There must have been a very deep Karmic account between them in the past which lead to this. You are so fourth soul who is associated with these three souls. But the energy of hatred and anger that you are creating It means that you are creating a deep Karmic account with your brother. What he did with them this his karma. It is also a return of their past Karma. But what Karma do you want to create now? Even if you do not want to talk to him Sometimes we say we don't want to talk to this person or work with him. It is fine if you do not want to have any interaction. But don't keep him on your mind. If you don't want to talk or meet him, that is fine. But don't hold on to hatred. That is creating the karmic account. That is a very difficult task. No, it is not difficult. My mother lived with us all her life. We stayed in the same house. If someone hurt my mother I could not forgive them for months. I wouldn't talk to them and not even receive the phone calls. But in what we discussed last time, it was about a murder. By holding on to things in the mind One person wronged another Let's take a simple example. Suppose your brother said something hurtful to your mother. Right now we will not discuss about that other incident of murder (from last episode) Your brother said something to your mother. Which means one soul said something to the other. The other soul got hurt. You are the third soul in the scene. You are detached. The Karmic account so far is only between them. It was a Karmic account between the other two souls, not yours. So initially it was theirs. They had some give-and-take of the past So he came and said something such that she felt bad. You are connected to both the souls. With your brother and mother. When one soul created Karmic account with the other The anger that you created And you created it for a very long time - for days or months. So what did you create? What did you create during that one month? You also created a Karmic account with that soul. I will believe it is natural because I saw my mother sad. Yes what was going on, was natural. But this is what we said - that we need to keep the law with us. Using that law we need to see how to do the right Karma. You mentioned that you want to correct all the wrong Karma is done in the past. We need to go back to the past. We all have enough to do in the present itself. There is so much to do at each step in the present. As we keep doing it, the past keeps getting settled. Because it is the past which is coming back to us in the present. Every moment of the present - it is the past which is coming back. So whatever from the past is coming, we need to face them correctly. Let us take this example again. Brother is doing a wrong Karma towards the mother. One is the understanding that it is a Karmic account between those two souls. Second - what is my role at this moment? Being a son, my role is to heal my mother. You will want to heal her because she is in pain and crying. And she is sad and upset so you need to heal her. In order to heal how should your state of mind be? You need to have compassion - &quot; it is ok, he said something.&quot; &quot;It is his Sanskar.&quot; We need to quickly stop thinking about what he said. Important is to heal her state of mind. The focus should shift from the wrong which has happened. Need not keep thinking about it, and create anger or hurt. Instead, look at how to heal the person who is hurt. Only then we are playing the right role. Instead of saying it is natural to get anger or hurt buy somebody's action. Because that would create a new Karmic account. How should our Karma be? How to heal somebody who is in pain? Focus the energy towards construction. Focus the energy towards healing. Otherwise if we sit with the mother and say, &quot;He is like this, said like that.&quot; &quot;He did this, he said that to you. I don't even want to talk to him. I will not let him in this house again.&quot; This is happening among relatives in many families. So what is happening to our Karmic account? And then we say we want happiness. We also say, &quot; I lost my happiness because he came home.&quot; &quot;Because of him, the happiness of our entire household is gone.&quot; &quot;He is about to come, he will ruin all the peace in this house.&quot; Even if he comes and creates an issue, he just shakes everybody's minds and leaves. Our role is to rebuild the peace in the house again. Suppose he came and the entire house became a mess. He is gone. Now my role is to reconstruct the house to what it was. Instead of questioning and pondering over why he even came. I can even tell him that I don't want to talk to him so he shouldn't come home again. Yes that is fine. With every Karmic account If we are getting a divorce, if we are quitting a job If we are unable to work with somebody Our Sanskars I'm not going to match with other people's sanskars. In many cases where there is extreme conflict Withdrawing is fine, but withdraw from here. That is very important. I cannot work with you Because our values and principles are completely different Our sanskars are completely different And somehow I am unable to mould myself to be able to work with you. So it is better not to work together We bring it here. This often happens in business where people decide to be friends. We can be good friends, eat together, meet often, but we cannot work together with each other. Very clear and it works well If we cannot work together we get separated But anger, hatred, resentment and revenge Divorce. If we cannot live together We tried our extreme best We tried out all options Yet if it is not possible, this is also a Karmic account. Then we choose to be separate But what about here? If we want to settle our Karmic account Then the resentment we have held on to Even that needs to be finished. Now what is happening is, the more we are separating The more we are holding onto the hatred and anger within us. In fact we remember them more than anybody else. The people with whom we could not work or live together We need to take care that even if we separate, we need to keep this clean Karmic account means the Slate should be cleaned here. And here - if things work well, then nothing like it. In extreme cases if it did not work - even then it is ok. But not here. This if we start taking care That the soul is getting cleaned within It means that our past Karmic accounts are getting settled This can be applied even in the biggest of situations. Now we cannot say in any situation that anger is natural. Naturally because he hurt my mother. I used this example as we were discussing about the women who has not been talking to her brother since 14 years Because her brother had murdered her parents. He murdered his parents. The law of country must have also acted on the case. The law of Karma will also work. This is an extreme case. So the law of the country and the law of Karma will both act. But what did I contribute by creating anger and hatred? This I have to ask - what am I getting out of doing that? First of all, I am living in pain. Forget the others against whom I created anger and hatred. What about me if I'm just holding onto anger and resentment? What good is it creating? We need to ask ourselves - what is coming out of holding on to resentment and anger? What is coming out of it? More hatred. If you don't want to talk to them, do not talk all your life. The matter was so big that now I cannot talk to that person ever. It is ok. But holding on to the emotions here and discussing it with people and radiating hatred What are we trying to do? Buy my holding onto hatred, will they be affected in any way? Only I will be affected. And what happens is In case of that lady, she has not spoken to her brother since 14 years. But what about her soul power because of holding onto resentment and anger? It has been reducing. There are other people in her family at home. She has good Karmic account with those people. She has her husband, two children and mother in law at home. Even they might be wondering till how long she will hold onto the pain. Suppose they don't know that she is still upset from within. But she is restless, so it will influence her relationships and the environment at home, is it not? How will it affect? How will they come to know? Her constant vibrations of sadness, anger and hatred will be radiating at home. Not only vibrations radiating. When the soul power is low She will start reacting even at small instances, with these people at home. She will create irritation, hurt or pain, the moment somebody says something. Because the soul power has become very low. Because she has held on to it for 14 years. So it started with one Karmic account not being good. But because she did not let go of the pain, the other Karmic accounts which were good These karmic accounts were good in the past. But what happened to these in the present? That is why the bigger picture is important. What was the benefit of what we had termed as 'Natural'? We have to always see the consequence of whatever we are doing. Her adjustment and tolerance power here at home has reduced. Restlessness in the mind, at home, health is affected, constant vibrations of hatred towards her brother. She might have wept alone so many times, unable to share her sorrow with her husband about what his brother did. Even if she is able to share with them about everything. But finally everyone will not empathize with you for that situation all the time and make your life easy. There will be a clash of their sanskars with your sanskars. That is bound to happen, is it not? For everything they will not correlate that she is upset because of that situation, so let us not tell her anything. It cannot go on like that. So at home there will be fights over small issues. So it is very important to remember the whole day, that in one Karmic account We should not deplete our energy to such an extent That in the other Karmic accounts which were going well Its effect starts to show there. Normally also if we look at households, if there is a conflict between the mother in law and daughter in law Then the state of mind of the daughter in law will affect her behavior with her kids. It'll be a direct influence. By itself, the Karmic account or relationship between the mother and kid is beautiful. But why coming into conflict with the mother in law repeatedly And by holding on to that for a long time, by being sad and by not forgiving The effect will show on her children. One Karmic account will influence many other Karmic accounts. That is why it is important to let go. I have seen that sometimes if the mother and son have an argument, the mother will stop talking to the daughter in law. That is done deliberately. This is different. That is done deliberately. But in this case it is a mother and child. And there it is the mother and daughter in law. The mother is not deliberately behaving wrongly with the child. Suppose there is a lady who has a conflict with her mother in law. But she is upset because of that conflict. She is irritated and even angry. Now if she is not able to talk to her kids properly, it is not deliberate. It is only because her state of mind is not right. Tolerance power is not high. Why does a mother raise her hand on her child today? Why does a mother raise her voice at her kids, even at a small issue today? It is because she is upset about some other relationship or some other issue. One thing we need to remember is that in our life, a majority of our Karmic accounts are very beautiful. They are very good. Most of our relationships are beautiful. It could be only one or two where there are conflicts. But because we make those one or two conflicted relationships complicated Its effect influences our state of mind. And that will start influencing the other relationships which were so far very good. So shall we change the definition of natural, indoors one or two conflicted relationships? Because it is not natural, it is becoming un-natural for us. So now check all the Karmic accounts today Tick the ones that are beautiful. In the one or two which are not so good I cannot change the other person, let me change myself. So that this Karmic account remains light. So that I can put all my energy into other beautiful relationships and make them even better. What a huge difference it makes by taking care of that one Karmic account. Absolutely. We need to experiment this and check. Myself, my family, staff, and the environment itself becomes light. Most importantly, that one heavy Karmic account also starts becoming light. So settling it. This is how we started the episode How to settle the past Karmic account - this is the way. Thank you so much. Om Shanti. Om Shanti. Thank you.