[mellow acoustic guitar] [Peter] Dano. -This is beautiful out here. -That's it, I roll. -I was wondering if I needed -Here's some peanut butter cookies. -Thank you. -Do we eat 'em? Yeah. Okay, I thought you'd like [Dano] Welcome to Waialua. It means twin waters, That's why you have so many wais, Because we live 500 feet off-road, I have a small fleet of them. [Peter] When did you first move here? -Mid-seventies, '76 I came. -And you're from San Diego? -How many acres do you have back here? -This is about an acre -Okay. -This is a food forest here. We cleared it and planted, and now -Is this cacao? This is our mother tree. My wife just harvested. Remind me, I'll show you -And we'll grind some into coffee. I didn't realize what an but there've been times &quot;I haven't seen another human being And I don't even notice it. I haven't been in a car in two weeks. -When is the last time you saw a TV? China Beach. That was in the '80s. -So you've never even seen CNN, -In the '80s we had no electricity, In the '80s when our girls were young -How many girls did you raise here? And we happened to go over to Maui and we heard something about Who had caught himself on fire on stage. And then we were late night and this comedy show comes on, and it was like &quot;15th anniversary, Saturday Night Live.&quot; and we go, &quot;This looks interesting, I never even heard of Saturday Night Live. This is after Gilda Radner and everything. So we dropped out of... We were on Mars during the '80s. -And we were doing this because-- [Dano laughs] -What planet? -You know, in permaculture, Bill Mollison would say we're time scouts. Because if I look at any landscape I see what it was before. I see what it is now and the various If we clear a piece of land we don't think about one crop of this we do what's called time stacking. Okay, we want to have an orchard of trees. We can put our avocado at 40 foot centers but in the meantime and since those are gonna go up we can plant pumpkin But the pumpkin will disappear first, and they will nurse in the avocado. We actually go in and plant time things all at once. Welcome to civilization. -Did you build this? And I've had some really good help but a lot of this... Like this whole house, we go &quot;Okay, we can Then after the floor was done &quot;Hmm, where should we put the walls? So there was never a drawing. -[Dano] Cookies! -Yeah. -Peter. -Robin, nice to meet you. -Yeah, thank you for letting me come. -Mic'd up already. [all laughing] San, T-E? -There you go, look at that. -Santenello. -That's your Google calendar. -What does that mean? -Instead of putting it online... -We just avoid Google as much as possible. They're in the same envelope with orcs. -Orcs and Google in the same place? -Orcs and Saruman, right? -Google... -I gotta turn off the oven. -Robin's making we call chilli rellenos -It's a baked chilli. -Baked green chilli There's dozens under here. -You like duck eggs better than chicken? -They're just nicer to work with? This climate, it's a wet climate, We actually raised chickens for years. They were a different kind of work we are appropriatarians. We eat what's appropriate, In permaculture, work smart not hard. -You're not working hard? -Not really. -No, we are meant to hang out like this, and have a good time, and then go do a bit of work, that's what we're here for -Humans are designed that way. -Yeah. People think permaculture Well yeah, that's part of it It's about our neighbors. Sustainability pulls everything in. Sustainability is a big stew. [Peter] Hard to put in words guys but there's a very special, deep, It's tough to capture these I think some of it comes though, but obviously not like being here. Just the way the water the greenery, being in the valley. I'm just describing -It's beautiful. Now see this? Rope, and on the other side what doe that tell you? -When your flooding? Yeah, the water gets to here. Oh, it rips that hard? -Yeah, solid water from here -Oh, wow. And the bridges lift up, You can see, I didn't make that pile right there. See? I don't know where this came from This is two months ago. -So when it rains hard, from... -That river gets big. -Almost to your place? -Wow. -I've been out here with water around me 'Cause out here it's not fast. It's moving out -How many times a year does that happen? [Robin] It happens It isn't every year -Okay, we've had maybe 8 or 10 But we've also had years where it'll move my bridges It's just a wet period. -The most difficult is drought. Which we have not had for 10 years. -We have had drought. But drought is-- -That's scary, huh? 'Cause your whole livelihood -And it's on having water. -We can't get county water in here. So even the water we drink, -Everything's coming down here? [Dano] Look. [Peter] They're massive. Wow. [Dano] Probably picked [Dano] Look. See that dead branch right there? -[Dano] In the middle [Dano] Okay, so you guide me now, It's pretty special they've been doing this for You know, as 20-year-olds. [chattering] Probably doing the same exact thing. -[Dano] I think there's another one. [Peter] Still some excitement to it. [Dano] Oh, sh*t, I didn't even get one. Did they both fall? [Peter] It's quite special. [Peter] Where did you two meet? [both] Here. -Who was here first? [Robin] I was. -I was already on Molokai and I met Robin, and I went home one night, and I went, [murmuring lustfully] Wow. [Robin laughs] I see an opportunity here. Robin had goats and a refrigerator next to She had a refrigerator I was staying in a tent and so I would come over, &quot;Robin, could I get some goat milk That was my in. [Robin laughs] This was the line. You wanna know about lines. -So Robin, what brought you to Molokai? -Um, my first husband was a surfer and he took me to the North Shore on Oahu. Which was a scene. This was in 1974. It was a scene, surfers and drugs. And it was not my scene who was my age, and I got pregnant, We became really close friends. And it was her grandmother told me, Her grandmother who was Chinese. We came over to Molokai, I fell in love. My first husband and I but then he got tired of me and left me with a two-year-old, in a tent, and a half-built kind of... -You guys had found this piece -Right. -So that had to be challenging obviously. -It was challenging, yeah. But you know, I was-- -Yeah, I joke but Robin, this was a person who was under a lot of stress and really... You know when you're both drawn, and yet the circumstances It's like... It makes you question. And, um, yeah, so... -I think when he left me and go back to California but I said, -I wound up being a stepdad. It's the hardest thing I ever did. I went from... It wasn't till... we had four girls all of a sudden here me and Robin are, I realized it's the first that we were ever alone together. We never had that. Alone together as a couple with no kid. 'Cause I came into a situation I was instant stepdad. -Right. How was raising kids out here? -Raising kids out here -Yeah... yeah. -And they would, all of 'em &quot;Wow, what a place to grow up.&quot; Before Christmas and they'd go up into the woods, and then they'd wrap 'em into wreaths, and then they'd go cut and they'd make these gorgeous, This was their play. That was their play, being on this land. When the little one who did hula and they'd make her haku leis right here. A haku lei is a head lei. I mean they just... -Oh they had... There was a... At one point there was -...that were right in between ours. and they had a little village. -They had a little village There's archaeological where they had their -No concerns about safety, -School was not easy for them. Some of them more than others got teased and you know, they were... -They were the holly kids. -They were sometimes -It's like that for kids no matter -There's always-- For just whatever reason, -Kids are harsh on each other. -Yeah, sure. -If you talk to them now -Yeah, they are. -They really are. -And they all learned how to do things and now, like, um... Our daughter in New Zealand, She's teaching-- -Okay, so one Friday, late afternoon, something breaks and it won't shut off. Our daughter comes home &quot;We can't get a plumber on the weekend.&quot; and our daughter goes, Goes out, crawls around Because she grew up here. -She went to -[laughing] -Without a choice. -Where we live -Yep. Whether it's turn on a light switch, It was nothing, we built it all -Yeah. We do want to find a young couple or somebody who would make and train them as a farm manager. -Okay, so I do want to leave that in the description. I'll leave a link to you guys. -A website, or an email, or something. -So you're looking for -Even a phone number, -Yeah, don't do that. You don't want Would they live out here? It would better to be on the land. -Better to be here, okay. -They gotta have their own transportation, -You would provide -Somebody with understanding in the permaculture world would be great. Because that's where 'Cause every day there's decisions. Oh, what am I gonna do with that mulch? Let's put it there, why? And that's a permaculture approach. Multiple outputs from any action. You're always maximizing the return. People ask how do you guys do it? &quot;How do you guys do all this stuff?&quot; We trim this tree and this stuff There's a ton of it out there already but once we take it into the bananas, I got the deer that like a young banana like this one but if I take this thing... [branches rustling] ...and put it [grunts] like that. See now no buck deer 'cause all this junk is in his way. He'll go somewhere else. -So now this one's gonna get messed with. -When they're this big Deer hit right about this are this is and go like this with his horns. It shaves and shaves, and just erodes this 'cause it's a banana. It's all just watery and... -So you want some people or are into this way of thinking? [Robin] Yes. [Peter] Right. -And it doesn't have to be a couple. Could be single person and that helps. [chuckles] -'Cause it could get lonely out here? It could or you might find [stream flowing] [ladder clanking] This is an orchard ladder, -Okay. -Can go in really crazy places where... That's good. [Dano] Oh, now I'm in the right place, -[Dano] Dark. [Peter] So are you just feeding or is it going-- -It's Molokai, [Robin] They just turned out to be [Dano] Avocado is definitely, [Robin laughs] [Dano] Believe me. -The most profitable crop, okay. -So this is your full-time job? -If you wanted to call it a job -Yeah. -How much can you sell, -Uh, $2.50, $3.00, depends on the size. -Oh, that's great. -Sustainable Multi is a non-profit. They're trying to help. Both make it good for the consumers So they're marking up their administrative costs and everything -Okay, so there's a real movement -Oh, yes. -From the island, on the island? -Yeah, it's sustainable Molokai. -Because it does seem a bit absurd At least Maui I was told it was roughly -No, what you said It is massively absurd how food -It's not just a little bit absurd. It is absurd, capital A, capital B, -It's borderline criminal? -You know how much avocado -To feed the whole island easily, right? -You could feed all of Molokai 95% of the citrus gets brought in. A guy from Planted Hawaii, a big nursery and he looked up the hillside and he goes, &quot;You know and three miles up that hillside, Hawaii, the whole state -Okay, so why isn't more of it being done? It's just the economics are cheaper -Yeah, I mean it's gonna be some labor and it takes land ownership, [disgusted] Yeah, it's... -Yes, we can grow all those oranges and they're delicious, and but they don't look pretty like the... [Dano] Oh man, -Perfectly symmetrical oranges? -Bright orange. And our oranges don't come bright orange because it takes colder nights [Dano] Oh, wrong way. Plow ahead. [grunts] Okay, see the ripening bananas? -Yep. -Yep. It starts someplace. Sometimes even Tomorrow maybe there'll be and the birds will have eaten those. -There's a bird up there right now. [Dano] No doubt. They know what's good. Bananas are not a tree, there's no wood. If you look at how these are growing any one banana tree makes one florescence. I could climb up there but in a month this would all be dead So to harvest bananas Now I could get behind here and this would fall over, right? And I've seen many bananas And it would hit that, and and really destroy some of the bananas So the real technique to harvest bananas, [chops] is a V cut into there, [chops] and then a little bit out, now it's gonna start now. That will just come down. See that's holding it, cut that off. -So for those amount of bananas -It'll only do this once then it'll die. I coulda climbed up there -But then the tree would die. [chopping] See that, it's actually A clump of bananas in a permaculture Whenever you do any clearing and dump it in your bananas -Okay. -Dump it all in your bananas Potassium, everybody knows that. Almost nobody knows that. Where did we learn that? You know, like nappy time. They play subliminal stuff, A soil scientist told me this, You have a lot of bricks, Well this is a big plant. This isn't a little grass or something. If that grows to that in a year that's A lot of cell walls and stuff. This is full of bricks. All of that's full of bricks, see we cut and I dragged all this stuff into here. 'Cause as that breaks all that potassium, goes into the soil. So that feeds the bananas. So I don't buy any fertilizer. See, here's one that got... See these ones, and here it is rotting, Look at how soft it is. See? It's not wood, it's fiber. Look at that. These are great. And this, you throw anywhere -There's a whole deal. You could, but that is nutrient rich carbohydrate. So if I think what's the highest use? It's to feed it to the ducks. When that replaces store bought feed. So in a permaculture setting 'Cause everyone knows the first world, -You figure it out. I was slow on that one, I got you. -It is the United and also we're way out here. We're 20 miles from town. So in permaculture you make use Yeah, I could throw it out and in We actually had that happen They were throwing their banana peels. I said, &quot;Okay, I get it.&quot; There's no harm in that and set it over there, And turn it into eggs, and turn it into What is the modern thing? The modern thing is... With any resource, right? They mine something, you use it and then you throw it away Then it falls off a cliff or whatever Every system we build and it just keeps going. -This looks amazing, It looks almost like a dream world. There is a ton of work that goes into it. Most people wouldn't be able to do it, They could if they made a conscious choice can't go this far with it. -No. -What could somebody do, Like what would your advice be for people to -Okay, our oldest daughter -Okay. So when she chose an apartment she chose one that had and she has raspberries, ...all the time out there Some of it comes in when it gets too cold. She keeps her compost I mean it's just a little thing is the biggest reason I think she is stressed about and it feels to her that she can stay in touch with nature -It also breaks the illusion of the material world They aren't really separate So when you do something, you grow your own raspberries, external input but it also is it makes something for you You know? You know that song by John Lennon, &quot;Playing those mind games together.&quot; That's about being part Pandemic, right? What a disaster. Right. Other end of the spectrum, What a change. If you'd have asked us ten years ago, Well the world changed, you did it for us. So now here we are. So let's get our asses in gear Mollison said, What? [thoughtfully] His example was he's going and he goes around a curve and lantana, which is this thorny plant... -We have it here. It's a problem in cow pastures and the cows don't eat it. So the lantana patches He's going around this curve an apple tree growing and he goes, &quot;Stop, stop.&quot; He gets out of the car and he goes, somebody threw an apple out there, the cows can't get at it so it grows.&quot; The lantana, the problem, is the solution. So Mollison worked And he would go out and a hundred little pistachio trees and he would grab his Aborigine buddies and they would head off into the Outback, and they'd find a place and it had a branch like that, and they'd make a place like that, and barricade a place, So it was barricaded from it would grow by itself. If they put it out in the open The problem... ...downed trees, -So the problem of the pandemic, It wakes people up to maybe way outside your control Or move more in this direction on your balcony... -Yeah, look at all the supply chain links and typical things you could It showed us how on systems that we're And permaculture is all about instead of take, make, use, lose, -And you have to pay attention to them. -For us it's second nature because... seeing permaculture and getting inspired. Well we were out here milking goats, and I went and I spent two weeks with Like I said because it all fits together [Robin] It has always excited me This is a creeping thyme, oregano, marjoram, all of these are culinary herbs -You do do medicinal? -To some extent, ones that I use. I've got some feverfew, it's over there. I can show it to you. Which is a terrible bitter herb that I sometimes Oh, here's a little bit of feverfew, -If you have a headache -It particularly for I mean first thing I do for headaches -Because that's the most common. I rarely get headaches I'll get one and it's like terminal, -That's the kinda headaches -If I find a good feverfew I'll break off. [Peter] When's the last time Does that ever happen or no? [Robin] Aspirin we take but not Advil. -Aspirin? Okay. [Robin] We have a friend can affect your stomach But I don't even remember what Advil is. Ibuprofen. -Ibuprofen messes with your liver -With your kidneys. [Robin] And it's bitter. -It's bitter. [Robin] Here's one -What is that? [Dano] And if you take that and chew it, you go numb for three minutes. It is a natural... ...anesthetic. [Peter] Do you guys have any vices? It seems like you're living -Coffee. -Chocolate, yes. [giggles] -But you'll eat some sugar? We'll eat some sugar. We're not strict. Like Dano said, [chuckling] -Appropriatarianism? -I like that. They got candy. On Halloween, And one of our daughters It's more important to eat the good stuff than to try to go A very wise nutritionist once told me all the cells in your body and they have things Well if you're eating all the nutrients and all the minerals and stuff. If they're empty then the mercury, and it's hard to get rid of 'em. But if you eat enough of the right stuff, those will all fill up. It isn't about what you don't do, -You want coffee? Yeah, fine. Robin doesn't drink coffee -Okay. -Likes to have it at lunch time. So I was gonna show you, here's... ...cacao beans... that grew -Mm-hmm. -And Robin picked them and then So I just put about three of 'em, grind it fine, and you know how at the end you get the dregs, Well it's like tastes... You get this hint of hot chocolate. -Oh, yeah. [Dano] This is a barricade. -[Robin] Temporary duck fence. Because-- -Well they would go that way &quot;Hey, we can get away Oh man, if duck's in the river, I mean they'd follow the river But they run over the whole yard -You'll see. What's this up here, Dano? -It was a bedroom at one point by that huge rock and so... -See the big rock there? -It just came down the mountain? Okay, I'll tell you what, -Okay. -Okay. -You're gonna not go very far but I'm afraid if you were down there &quot;Wait a minute, who's he?&quot;. -Yep. [quacking] [Dano] Ready, girls? [quacking and scurrying] [Dano] It's like kids. It's like seven year olds Go on, go on, you go out. Go, go with your sisters, go on. What's great is they will find or slug that exists out here and eliminate them completely. -So they forage all over your property? They're... Yeah, and they'll glean They actually go out and feed themselves That's one flock of ducks, -Oh wow, what an operation. [Dano] There's a lot going on here. In the permaculture book Which means it's an integrated system So there are any number of that these ducks are running in See the ducks can run here and go over to there, So here's a big island This is brand new. We just planted A week ago the ducks were here, and had been here for a couple months. So the ground is real fertile. I did here a little bit for 'em and when I dig there's earth worms They eat the soil. I don't buy fertilizer, but I don't buy fertilizer The ground is incredibly nutrient rich And so I can throw It's just sitting here. It's not pegged down or anything. and then plant these, I'll have serrano chillies this I mean I've got a garden here. We already harvested. There was a whole crop and we came back in more tatsoi over there, some endive right here, cherry tomato. Actually it was a volunteer right there. [Dano] C'mere, girls. Papaya, there we go. Time to eat. [Peter] Oh, great. What a place. I love how open it is. [Robin] Yeah, there's particularly about letting air flow. Because it's Hawaii, it gets warm. -Right. [Peter] Nice fresh salad. [Robin] Yes, that's nice fresh salad. [Peter] Quiche? -It is like a quiche in fact It's from Beth Smith Cookbook. I've used it for years. It's been often times our Christmas meal [Dano] Thank you for this chance and talk about good, positive things. [Robin] Thank you for this food. [all] Amen. -So you're... you're both religious? -We're Baha'is, both of us. -Bahai's, explain Bahai's please. [Dano] There's Buddhists, -Sure. -Janes? -Yeah. -Yeah. -Well... What that's pointing to there have been incarnations came to people and gave them -Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. -Okay, when Jesus came he said, Because they were not ready, incarnation of God. -Mm-hmm. -Said equality in men and women. Well in Jesus' time They were not ready then. Love your neighbor as yourself, because every society It was Roman empire. So our notion is that... ...we believe in this thing called... [Robin] Progressive revelations. And that drives the Christians mad, because it basically says all right, Because the Muslims... You know, the Muslims follow Jesus but they believe Jesus -And the Muslims feel like they're -Yeah. -Right? -Baha'is don't think we're the last stop. -In fact we believe there's gonna be more. -So the Baha'is picked up after Islam? -Baha'u'llah came in the 1800s, He was exiled, -He came into Iran, what is now Iran. -Okay, yep. -And he said one world religion, universal education. In fact if there's not enough resources because they bring up the children. -Mm-hmm. The Muslims were not... Maybe the Muslims were. -The Sufis were. -But the Mullahs, -Right. -They were like, Every religion is like that. -What about is it -We recognize Zoroastrian One of the manifestations of God. -One of the... -One of our principles is It takes the contrasting supposedly We honor the diversity of all There's one God. It's like a jewel The inside of that jewel is the same. But it looks different -Mm-hmm. What about diversity of thought? If you're not on the Baha'i program -It matters not. -It matters not? -There are no outsiders? -Okay. -In fact we're engendered to do good works within the community. If it brings people to a point of unity Even if we never say the word -Okay. -So like on Martin Luther King Day honoring that whole thing, and help out other groups. Those other groups they're helping It doesn't matter, that's the point. The point is not -How many Baha'is in the world roughly? -I don't know I know that it's really I heard a couple years ago Particularly among -Okay. -It was like, &quot;Oh, we don't have to &quot;This is a relief.&quot; [laughs] -[Dano] Right. Yeah. -Equality of men and women. -This-- In Iran particularly but in a few other I went out of the country I got as far as Afghanistan, -Oh, wow. That was an amazing time -It was still horrible. [laughs] -But there were a lot of travelers. But anyway, the only place we've been -Okay. -New Zealand is the only place that was hard to leave and come back here. We both felt that way. I mean... -Yeah, because I think that this is... This is total new agey but it's just like somehow at a So when we drove there were more Maori. And whenever we would, they just welcomed us and took us. -Oh, yeah? -Even though we were... -They could feel your island vibe? -I knew it. Yeah, they could just... Part of that was... What we felt for them. We know local culture. -But isn't it true It comes back at you. -Yeah. I think that's true. -For the most part, right? I mean has that been your experience -Yes. -This is delicious. -Yeah, Robin makes good stuff. -You really can tell the difference versus grocery store. -We buy the red cabbage -The greens are amazing. -Yeah, the greens are amazing. -It's all those banana peels. [Dano and Robin laughing] One thing too with the work I do, I'll be in DC in a couple weeks. Like the juxtapositions are massive. Like here and Washington DC, -I can hardly imagine. -But what I'm discovering is we're in versus the on the ground reality. That the gap is pretty wide. [Dano] -Mm-hmm. -And... [Robin] That's kinda sad. It is sad because people are viewing and I don't think it's very reflective Like for example, most Americans, and if you treat 'em with respect they're really warm Like the vast majority -That's been our experience. -Yeah, but when you go online I mean that's the business model. It's meant to divide The negativity gets attention. I was told Molokai, you know... I was told, &quot;Careful.&quot; &quot;You're the outsider, -They eat hollies over there. -Walter Riddy eats hollies. He was over here a couple weeks ago. -He was the most gentle, soft-spoken guy. -And yet because he's adamant that he's become the they ascribe all these qualities to him. I mean that's how it goes. -So I was told one thing, I get here, and it's been the kindest locals. Everyone has been so cool and because you're on -Yeah. -And you get in long conversations -You go to the post office guaranteed somebody's gonna -Yeah. [laughing] Unless there's nobody else -Especially if you're a pretty blonde. -And a Kapuna. -But even years ago I noticed that. -Yeah. -Just the cashiers in the store say, -Yeah. -Uncle? Well any... -I'm auntie. -Any older male is uncle. Any older female is auntie. For me, I'm uncle even if they're... I don't know how old you are but you -So do you feel society 'cause it's small enough nobody if they tried? -Well I mean, in many, many ways, yes. -Be respectful of everybody else. -I got that when I first came here. When I first came here, I forget who, and this was in weeks of being here, they knew I was new. So I would get these little talks. -Mm-hmm. -Here's how you behave. Here's who we are -Yeah. -Because they sensed I would hear that. I was an open door -Right. -He said, &quot;Okay, so you're and there's a mango tree in and there's mangoes on the ground.&quot; &quot;You don't go &quot;No, if you want the mangoes you say, &quot;I see you got mangoes So you know what, Honestly I'd like some and give them to you They'll go, &quot;Oh yeah sure, help yourself, -You know what I mean? She says, &quot;Main thing, you ask.&quot; -Yeah. -Yep. -I did that today. Driving here I had to go to the restroom and I said, &quot;Excuse me, ma'am, and she's like &quot;Yeah, it's right there.&quot; She stopped and said, It was this older local lady. So I think what you're saying, just by the courtesy of asking -Yeah, because you know what, yeah, she knows, fulfilled the protocol. You showed that respect, you asked. -Yeah, yeah. When in reality you didn't have to but that's just like you're the So yeah, perfect. You know when I got here any time there would be locals they'd go, &quot;Eat, eat, there's plenty. Get plenty.&quot; That means we have plenty. I came to realize that it's the difference between versus a worldview of scarcity. The Hawaiians have a worldview, -Mm-hmm. -&quot;We get plenty&quot;, -That's why they gave everything. To the flood gate That's why so much Because the world was abundant It's their protocol, it's their way. It's how they define themselves. You know? In fact the state motto of Hawaii, it's a very awkward translation But it's translated as, you know, the haina, &quot;...is perpetuated in righteousness.&quot; What an awkward translation, &quot;The life of the land Okay, you have this word, pono. you know pono? -I've heard of it. What is it? Pono is like if you do... We have a postcard somewhere. If you do what's appropriate you're pono. If you do the right thing If you're courteous If you help your brother Pono means that. It's all those things. -The whole Hawaiian language is like that. It's multi-layered meaning-- -It means doing the right thing. [Dano] It's really nice having you here. Spending time with you some of the things that are and with somebody -Thank you, it's an honor to be here. --If it helps make the internet [laughing] [Peter] You hear what? I'm sorry. These deer go, [barks]. Like that. [Robin] Very much like that, -Good, yeah. Anybody else would go, Yeah, they bark. [Peter] And then what do you do? -I grab my .22, I walk right out here, sometimes it's seriously 60 seconds, and I have a green light, and their eyes shine, They don't see green. They don't have They have the one lens. Anyway, one night Right.... And I got 'em both. Boom, boom. -Do you have a good shot? -You know, I don't shoot way far with and I'm trying to be humane, I don't want to injure You can go online and find people say Well, not if you kill them. [Dano] The Hawaiians had terraces here [Peter] Is it okay to walk up here? -[Dano] Sure. -There's a very interesting -Okay, see this over here? 'Member I told you -Yep. -Well right here, see this low spot? Yep. -If you put a hose and ran water and this would continue on. There's some stuff that's fallen in, and curve around over there. We can walk in this, a wai, it's basically an aqueduct And this... We can follow this, and it goes all the way up, about a quarter of a mile from here In ancient times jumping across the river, and the terraces that we were on, and they brought the water The Hawaiians had... They were masters of waterworks. -Hmm. -And they were taking water flooding areas, putting it back in. Taking it out, -For the taro? -For the taro. [Dano] Rock is built up There's caves underneath this rock, -Okay. -And we've had archaeologists here who told us that basically That they built up from there and then had this protected place. -Okay, so they lived down here in a cave? -The Hawaiians didn't live The bottom land was all agricultural. -Yeah. -They came up on the ridges and the areas -Wow. -Yeah. This is definitely And any archaeologist would just come &quot;Dadadada.&quot; Yeah, please be careful. -Yeah. -You make my wife nervous And there's caves, right? -Yeah, can I go down here? Oh, yeah. You could easily sleep under that rock. -Yeah. [Peter] I wanna send Someone not short-term, right? You don't want someone What would you ideally want? -We've had any number of interns. -Okay. -We've had people show up Even for a week or two and if they're and willing to help out -'Member that guy, Daniel? This guy showed up and he was great He just wanted to give. -It's a lot of work out here? -It's a lot of work. It's a lot of complexity So somebody has to be in that mindset of recognizing that and not... It's not-- -We've actually had a situation of people with a lot of experience People who'd been on other farms. But we're getting on in age. -Okay. -We want to travel What we really need now is somebody that they can... -Okay. Which there's a lot of valuable skills We're marketing And we're... -And learned from -Yeah, and it's not We're homesteaders. We have our own water system. We get a big flood, the intake goes out, and know how to cut and glue PVC, and, you know, a whole bunch of things. -Repair bridges. -But you'll teach 'em if they don't-- -All right, guys, if any of you for the right person Link is down below -Thank you, guys. -That was awesome. I learned a lot. You have a beautiful world out here. A lot of respect and admiration -Thank you. Thanks for watching, you guys. [mellow acoustic guitar]