Today we're doing three buffets of all the quintessential American, especially Vegas, experiences Buffets, top of the list. The first one we're here in Caesars Palace. Do you even have things Harry: We do have buffets, yes. A lot of the time you'll find like, an all-you-can-eat Chinese at a restaurant or in the buffet. But I don't think we're doing because this place is absolutely enormous. This is going to be the and possibly the most expensive. It's just about $80, 25,000 square feet. Harry: Jesus, man. That's a lot of stuff. They're Just walking through to our table looks very impressive. Looks very fancy in a way, actually. I think a lot of the dishes more like small bites, you know? Joe: Yeah. Five hundred Harry: Five hundred? I get stressed out trying to pick from like three sandwich options when I get a meal deal, I get paralyzed by choice so easily. OK, in that case, I think we should try and narrow down to get at all of these places, maybe? So we have a rough comparison, because I know these are all Something tells me we Some type of seafood. Joe: Something I need to break open to get the meat inside. Definitely got to do a meat, then seafood, which is also Land meat, sea meat, sky meat, come on. Otherwise known as birds? Yes. Very good. I don't know, enough to get the Harry: Yeah, I feel like establish our options. Joe: Yeah. Let's go. How big this place is though? This dude just with a plate full of OK, so starting off with what looks to be the Chinese section. Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. OK. I mean this looks really good. I mean, look at the pile Harry: The duck. Joe: I would just pull up over here. Harry: Spare ribs. Sushi bar, man. I don't know about you, but I'm already feeling Oh boy. Over here to the deli area, Harry: I'm quite liking the presentation. I will say if you're paying 80 bucks and you're eating cereal, come on. Joe: Skipping it. Skipping it, no thanks. If I can make it at home, Pizza zone. Harry: How do you feel That looks absolutely dreadful. It's not looking great. Oh my God. Yeah guys, come on. Not your best one. Harry: Omelet bar. Every good buffet, you That's pretty crucial. Judging from the decor, we're Joe: Yep. Harry: Chicharrones. Joe: Yep, duros. Harry: I don't think I've Ube horchata. Joe: Yeah. Joe: Oh look, they got, like, You could just throw us Braised beef. Harry: Oh yeah. I think honestly, as just one of these stations could be a very successful buffet. Oh for sure. Yeah. They weren't kidding about I mean it's so What is this over here? Oh, waffles. Joe: And pancakes. Harry: And maybe some French toast. Joe: Display only, don't touch. Harry: Pancake and waffle Joe: Oh, and then you get the and that white gravy that Which part of the cow is a beef steamship? Server: Leg and thigh. Leg and thigh. Wow, OK. Server: All that force, all that pressure tenderizes it when they walk. I know you say you don't Do you have like a strategy? Because I feel like carbs will just kind of take up too much room. Joe: Yeah I'm not doing You got to maximize the proteins. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: We're onto the seafood. Joe: I thinks that's what Harry: Snow crab legs. Joe: I think I'm probably Going to get some of that Mm-hmm, these are nice as well. These are like manageable portions. Joe: Yeah they said more bite-sized. Harry: There's a butter dispenser here, which is the most American Oh, look at that. Yeah. You can just dispense yourself Joe: And then who could not, what buffet is not complete I mean, if you want to spend $80 to ruin a bagel, be my guest. If you spend $80, it's You can ruin as many bagels as you want. Harry: There's like dessert-y I mean, these all look beautiful. Joe: Yeah, the presentation Harry: Presentation is on point here. Joe: Incredibly beautiful. I'm thinking you start there, I start there, and we meet in the middle, and we can share everything. Sure. Joe: Meet in Mexico? Harry: Sounds great. See you there. Joe: Great, see you there. I mean I think we got a We hit just about every station which we will have after our meal. You got a lot of prime rib. Harry: Yep. Joe: Went to town on the And you know, I tried We started here with Got a little bit of the cheese and the, I guess it was the pizza station. Little bit of Greece with the One of the selling points, one So would you like to do the honors? Sure, yeah. I got to say, I don't eat a ton of crab, so I may absolutely botch Can you tell I don't eat loads of crab? Joe: Yeah, I guess you can Harry: No crack is needed for Joe. It's just going to straighten. Joe: Absolutely fantastic. Mm. I was hoping the meat would but it has not done that. Mm, yeah. Really fresh. I noticed that you also got some shrimp, and I'm glad you did, because shrimp here is I think shrimp in general but here, it's a really big deal. Check this out. They go through 192 Put that in perspective for you. That's 137 kilograms of shrimp. That's good. Got like a real like Dude, are you kidding me? Shrimp and cocktail and Mm-hmm. My mouth doesn't know what's going on. Absolutely fantastic. I want to say, usually I don't because you kind of wonder, like, how long has it been sitting there? But the freshness of all the seafood over there especially was very impressive. Harry: I think the benefit the size and the scale of it, they're pumping stuff out constantly. Joe: Yeah. Harry: Things that you're getting, are not going to have Joe: Yes. So you're pretty much guaranteed that everything here is going to be fresh. What do you got there? Harry: This is basically like if a Starbucks egg bite Joe: OK. Harry: It's a egg bite Oh hello. Mm, the texture on the egg is so good. Joe: Yeah. Wow! Meaty pieces of lobster. Joe: Starbucks, you're I didn't get crab rangoons because there was literally on that area. I'm like, forget it. But I did get, they had and especially crispy parts, got some of the skin right here, right? Crispy pig skin is one Oh yeah. Harry: Dude. The crunch on the outside, I'm getting like the kind of like five spicy flavors as well. Joe: Yeah, look at the size Look at the size of this, right? Harry: This was cut in He like added some seas Joe: Oh yeah. Just having this as part of a buffet just screams Oh wow. So then I feel like if to a buffet to try and Joe: Yeah. of the dishes that you want to target. Oh my God, that's a How he has &quot;Guy's Grocery Games&quot;? Mm-hmm. &quot;Guy's Buffet Budget,&quot; where everyone has to how to get the most expensive things to get the most out of a buffet. Different buffet each episode. That's a pretty good idea for show, right? &quot;Guy's Buffet Blast.&quot; how much it actually cost in what you ate and see basically who gets Sure. Joe: That's a good idea for a show. Like a combination, like, eating I think that could work. This is a good idea. I want to do that. Let's We won't be in it. We could be the judges for it? &quot;The Food Tours Buffet Blast.&quot; I think it's a really good idea. While we're still on the meats plates, they also have British bangers. Joe: Now what makes a banger British versus it just being a sausage? It's often the seasonings and the flavorings that are used. I think we lean differently in the US and the UK when it comes to that. There's like almost a kind because they tend to use a lot Well from Britain, how'd we do? Not bad. Not the best British banger I've ever had, but I think herbs-wise they've How about of the bangers Yeah, one of the best ones. There you go. See, you can't compare to the source. Few of the stats I'm but I had to look it up, this is a day. 6,000 pieces of dim sum, 1,000 and then you go through half a ton of wood in their fire at grills and smoker ovens. Harry: Damn. It's a food factory, this Yeah unfortunately, I do of just a part of buffet culture. Yeah. Especially in a place like this, you know, you've paid and experience a bunch of different stuff, try not to get too full If I was to come here and just eat myself this is the only buffet I was hitting, I'm going prime rib, I'm going crab legs. Oh yeah, more of the crispy pork. Yeah that was really good. I do like the pizza. They You say good pizza options, but I am seeing salmon on that pizza. Well try it. You never Cause for concern. I have not, no. Have you? Yeah, of course. Oh yeah. What do you think? No, I can't get my head Let me ask you a question, what are some of your favorites? I love the meat station, I That's a given. I was very impressed and the Chinese station Yeah, I'd say between meat, seafood and the Chinese station, Joe: Yeah. Just the fact that you that's cooked this well, sliced right in front of freshly sea-salted, that's beautiful. These crab legs are excellent as well. Let me ask you a question. So far, has this lived of the Vegas American buffet experience? Yeah, I'd say it's like met and probably exceeded my Joe: Nice. Buffets in the UK, particularly kind of to be pretty much entirely focused on the breakfast side of things. So you know, you'll have your bacon, sausages, toast, hash I've not really ever been to a buffet that's served these and in this quality either. I think in the UK, buffets tend to be on the lower end You're definitely there whereas this one does seem Yeah, I did notice that the plates are on the smaller side. There's no trays, so that you go up thinking By the time you sit, you need to get full. The getting up and going is kind of like, ah forget it, I'm full. I think there are some like, psychological tricks Joe: Yeah. I think another psychological if it's a psychological trick, you pay coming in. Yes. Joe: So there's no reason Right. Because if they were like a bit slack on getting you the check, you'd be like, well, I got a bit more time and then could maybe do it as that. Or if you're like, oh I'm like, oh God, I got to pay. All right, I'm grabbing Yeah, a couple of slices of prime rib straight in Take that to the casino floor. I've heard of, what are where they eat a lot of stuff. Nicole: Mukbang. Us? &quot;Food Wars&quot;? Yeah, these guys who like, I guess they're like competitive eaters, or just they eat a lot on YouTube, and there's some videos out of buffets and places, I will say if you come to Vegas and the main thing you want sitting in a buffet restaurant, come on. There's a lot more stuff to do. It's definitely on the Joe: Little steep. Harry: But I don't think they've skimped on any of the quality. They haven't been cutting corners here, which is personally something I also think that, you Yeah. Like, you're here for a blowout weekend. Yeah and also, I mean, I I don't think I can eat, I think I could push the or an $80 dinner, and This place is cool. Harry: Yeah, relaxed, good fun. You're right in the middle of everything. Joe: In the mix. Fill yourself with prime rib No, go check out Blue Man Group. Blue Man Group. Make yourself a sandwich to go and go see what Carrot Top's up to. Well, I'm ready for the Harry: Yeah, I think I am. Joe: Let's hit it. We are in the Rampart hotel and casino, and this is the Market Place Buffet. It claims to be the only Yeah, we're a little than most of the hotels and casinos that we've been to so far. Well there's two reasons for that. One, this is supposed to be an Two, every other buffet said no. Sounds great. Let's eat. Production's hard, but this Harry: Yes. Joe: One of the selling points for me is for a few dollars, it's also all-you-can-drink beer and wine. That is something which So glad you said that. It's actually outlawed Harry: Yeah. Brits cannot be trusted So we'll see how I hold up today. What? I feel like I'll pace myself alright. Hey, cheers, my man. To a absolutely wonderful Vegas vacation. Famous last words. OK. Harry: So far the vibe in here It's very relaxed. I'm kind of seeing this as like people who actually I'd say the age bracket, sort of like retirees who kind during the day, enjoy a nice buffet. Well I mean the price is Harry: 20 bucks? $21, I rounded up. Excuse me. Unlimited beer and wine, $8 more. OK, so $28, all you can That is a steal. $30 for all you can eat So I guess again, it'll probably make sense if we get like, a sliced meat of some kind. Joe: Yeah. Maybe another seafood option, ideally some crab, lobster Joe: Certainly. just anything else that I think that's a great idea. Harry: All right. Well, I'm starving. Harry: Absolutely. Let's go to game faces on here. We can't both grab the same things because of limited plate space. Sure. but we're working as a team. OK. I like the strategy. All right. I don't want to grab things that I feel like I can find just anywhere. I'm sure everything's really great. And I love fried chicken, love all this stuff at the carvery. Calamari, I'm getting some calamari, man. Where did you see that? Oh, I thought those were onion rings. I know, me too at first, Yeah, and they're carving meat over here. Hi, how are you doing? Can I have some slices of Sure. Do I do this with the And a couple slices of the Yo. Thank you very much. Enjoy. I'm seeing shrimp. Joe: Yeah, this is salad. Come on. Harry: Salad bar looking good. Joe: I bet the soups are great. Harry: I love these, like, meat flowers. Incredible meat flowers. Euro bit, I'm in my element now. Joe: Oh nice. I think shrimp pizza's pretty good. Yeah, you had it before? I feel like I have, yeah. I can't say I ever have. My plate's going to end up looking like a 5-year-old curated it. Just like pizza and fried stuff. Joe: Oh, definitely grabbing I want to do the butternut squash ravioli. Harry: Definitely getting some bacon. Joe: Yeah, I got some bacon. Darn it. I should have gotten a second. Wait. I've got room, man. What do you want? Yeah. Definitely want to Harry: Oh yeah. Joe: Definitely some crab rangoons. You got room on your plate for some ribs? Harry: I can probably Joe: All right, I think We also have a dessert shop. I feel like maybe even if we should check the desserts out. Yeah, OK. Harry: Little ice cream sundae bar. Joe: Bread pudding. The Harry: These look pretty legit. Joe: This looks really good. Harry: These look good. Joe: This, I would like, yeah. We're going to definitely Oh my God, a soft-shell crab slider. Bro I don't know how we Yeah, I'll take one of those. Yeah. OK. Beautiful. We should be good. Yeah, I think we're good. Well actually, honey-glazed I'm like a kid in a candy OK. Joe: All right, we got about your plate there, buddy. What's going on? Harry: Just to be clear, not my plate. Plate of things that I wanted on its own, this is a very Yeah, you came back with just that. It's like bruv, what's going on? Harry: Come on, man. First impressions, Everything looks so delicious up there. I mean, we were going to go two plates, I had to grab a third. First off, I'm seeing a Harry: Mm-hmm. Harry: Oh yeah. for this one, the mussels So you can keep it with the juices, with the butter juice that it came in. It was very smart. I like that. Self-sourcing mussels. I walked past the calamari So the fact that the calamari is the size of onion rings here is real nice. I like that a lot, dude. Harry: I love calamari so much. Those are going to be delicious. Joe: Yeah. got the bacon. Again, it's like a place you can do lunch, you can of pop in here like any anytime of day and get a meal that suits you, which is pretty cool and a little uncommon for Yeah. Do you want to start Beefy boys, yeah that You can get that one in front there. And I'll take this from behind. And they cut it right in Love the meat cutting station. Harry: Thick slices. And I feel like them of you has like become like Yeah. This looks like a good piece of meat. Mm-hmm, yep. Harry: That's a good piece of meat. Also the pork loin, I mean, oh my God. Dude. Get a little bit of that. Yep. Whoa, right? How fantastic is that? Harry: Oh yeah. It's usually, I think, to dry out pork, especially when you're cooking it in, like, big batches like this. But it's still got loads of juice to it. Yeah. Very, very delicious. Very succulent, if you will. I mean, I have to know. Harry: You want your slider. I have been really dying So real quick, we got and a decent amount of crabmeat in there. Harry: I think it's just What happened here? All right. Do you want some with my Joe: You want to break some off of there? You can swap if you want. The crab can sit. No, you can have some. You seem more excited I want you to have the big one. Oh, well thank you so much. Harry: That's fine. All right, here we go. Mmm. I'm only eating soft-shell from here on out. Really crispy with that batter. Joe: Yeah, you don't miss out I'm curious about these mussels. I love mussels. And then once again, they with the tray, so. Oh yeah. It would be weird to have mussels without the buttery juice So it's that brininess Oh that's lovely. Joe: Yeah, it's lovely, right. Bit of heat to that sauce I absolutely love this spread. Everything looks so fantastic. It was laid out, get through there quick. Harry: Yeah, just like one long line. Joe: Yep. Joe: In and out. Harry: Work your way from Yeah. The calamari rings. Harry: I love calamari, man. This is a fantastic The batter is so crunchy, and the squid inside is Joe: Yeah. You notice usually we get calamari, even though it's breaded, to the table, the breading's Yeah, a bit soggy. It's kind of what you expect from it, but make it like this, breading's not going anywhere, and it adds a delicious crunch to the texture of the calamari. This place rules. This is so good. This is great. Harry: I still can't believe for 21 bucks. Yeah, 20 bucks. I mean we had two beers. Well, I mean, this is Vegas. We have one beer, the all-you-can-drink It really does. This bacon, this bacon's up my alley. They've got to be doing bacon well. that's a measure of quality That's right. It's the And this canary is singing. Sorry. No, I love it. That's In terms of like them being I wouldn't say this is but that's not always Joe: No. I think if I want to I'm not that concerned Yeah. I kind of just want like tasty things, a mix of things. I want zero judgment on what ends up on my plate. It's probably going to be a that doesn't quite go together. Joe: Sure. of like half of the joy of a buffet. I totally agree. All the classics, all the Delicious. This is where you get like a which I like. You know, if I didn't so like I came in, ate my and walked down like, how much I would say easily 40 or 50 bucks. Yeah. Joe: That's ridiculously great value. Harry: That is a steal. Joe: We should at least get some dessert. Harry: Yes. So I got a couple of bits. My man. Let's go. Fantastic selection. Slice of pie, carrot cake. What's that? I think little panna cotta cups. Joe: OK. Joe: Do carrot cake first. Harry: It does kind of get carried by the cream cheese frosting, Joe: Ooh. Jordan carried the bulls, but Frosting is Jordan, coffee Everyone at this table is I saw &quot;The Last Dance.&quot; Come on, man. Give me some credit. All right, let's try this panna cotta. Mmm. This is good. You went with the vanilla chocolate mix. Harry: Mm-hmm. Oh, they're already Mm-hmm. Joe: Oh God, it's so good. Harry: There's something so nostalgic about this soft-serve. It's very much like something Yep. But it hits the spot every What kind of pie is this? It looks like either I can't quite tell. Definitely not cherry. Harry: I think blueberry. Blueberry, not boysenberry? That's fantastic pie. That is fantastic pie. Wow. Really good pie. That tastes as good as any like diner pie that I've had. This is meant as a compliment, but that pie is better than it should be. Yeah. Oh, I am full. I'm full. I think the dessert actually in my estimations. I want to make a comment The theme is like an We've been in Vegas for like a week now. Harry: Yes. And you walk out the door and We drove a little bit outside and right when we pulled The area's beautiful. So if I was coming to Vegas, and if you wanted to not go to a place that was like insanity, this would probably be my top choice. It's really nice out here. It It really does. Yeah it feels like a, like you said, a bit of an oasis I'd say. Joe: Yeah, yeah. If that's the vibe you're looking for. Harry: Yeah. I think maybe more for like who, you know, you've done the Strip, you've done the noise, Market Place kind of Joe: Yeah, yeah. Harry: They've set a bar. I think also, I'm just that it's so like peaceful here. Yeah there's like, coming out of a Strip hotel or casino. Yeah. Somehow there is the same number, if not even more stimulants It's like noise, cigarette smoke. Yeah. Vegas is the only place to like chill out. Harry: To relax, yeah. Ah. Slightly less things This has been really great. I believe you said you have Let's finish our brewskis Harry: Sounds like a plan. Joe: AYCE Buffet in the Harry: I am. Joe: I actually still am, too. Yeah, I know, right? Bit of a gap between that Work up another appetite. I think this show's just doing that our stomachs have just been expanded. We could be competitive It's Friday, so that means If we came yesterday, the and Thursdays, it's lobster night. I bet that gets absolutely feral. I bet it is nuts. Can you imagine like eating I love prime rib. Harry: Yeah, sure. Joe: I can maybe eat one and a half. I mean really like, lobster tails, how many do you think you Quite a few. I think four. There's some meat on those, but I reckon, yeah, like four or five. Because lobsters are really light meats. Now this is the smallest only 10,000 feet. A mere 10,000 feet. Joe: 10,000 square feet Still pretty big, I would say. Joe: Yeah, it's still a It looks really nice. We got here right at 4, when it opens, and there is a line around Harry: There really is, yeah. People want to come in and eat. Clearly a popular spot. I like that it's very much kind So you're getting some noise. You're getting the kind of atmosphere, that casino vibe, you know. It's very fun, upbeat, and hopefully the I'm pretty sure I've seen Joe: Yeah, I saw a guy Hopefully saved them for us. Harry: We've got to grab some some of those smoked meats, and then kind of just anything else that catches the eye again. Yes. All right, you ready? Same with the two plates for one strategy? Possibly even more plates. We'll see. We'll see how we get on. I'm ready to go into one more. Hey there, can I please have Is that enough? You want any more? Harry: We can share one. Joe: All right, cool. Harry: Can you get me some Joe: Which one's that one? Oh that one. Harry: The one with Joe: Oh, can I have two sausages? Harry: That looks good, right? Joe: Yeah, it should do it. Awesome. Thank you, sir. Harry: Thank you. Second plate. Joe: Pepperoni pizza, looks nice. Want to do a slice of pep? Yeah, yeah. Get a slice of pep. It's a chef special. Looks Birria ramen. Hello. Harry: There we go. I'm seeing prime rib. Joe: How you doing? Can I have two slices of Harry: Thank you so much. Enjoy. Harry: Got a line for the crab. This guy is going crazy on the crab legs. Grab yourself a couple. Joe: It'd be funny if I just grabbed one. Harry: Let's not go overboard. Joe: Oh, we got to get This is the revival section. Oh yeah. Yeah. This is Harry: I quite like they've just, taken all the healthy bits Joe: Which doesn't have much of a line. I think that's it. I'm not here for the healthy stuff. Price point of this one, kind Harry: Sure. Joe: I think that's a great deal. Harry: I would agree, yeah. Joe: Especially if you get Harry: Like most people seem to be doing. Joe: Yeah. And these look like good crab legs. Ooh, they're warm, too. Harry: They do. I made a hash of this last time. Joe: You made a what? Harry: Made a hash of it. Is that a Britishism? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Got most of that one out actually. That's pretty good. Also with the butter Joe: Oh duh. I forgot Yeah. Butter, mm-hmm. That's really good. Harry: Yep. I mean has butter ever Good point. Now that I've had at least one, I definitely would stand in Harry: Yeah? According to Costco, 10 pounds of crab legs, $300. Joe: 10 pounds is not a lot. No. It's expensive. Oh geez. 300 bucks for 10 pounds? Harry: 300 bucks for 10 pounds. Joe: That's Costco. Harry: If your plan is this is one of the ways to do it. Joe: I think so. Harry: This is like prime so the quantity they're Joe: That's what they Harry: Yeah. Joe: The line was out the door. They are churning them out. We saw them while we dump a load more in. It just means that whatever we're eating, it's probably only been prepared like 10, 15 minutes ago tops. Yeah, I mean these are still really warm. Yeah, saw them walk through them. Ah. Lovely taste on these. Seafood, the legs are fantastic. But it is prime rib night, so So we had prime rib at Bacchanal. Joe: Yep. Harry: Think we're looking than a rare here. Still very juicy. Joe: Oh yeah. Yo. It's got that flavor. It's a little bit of a fattier cut, but I like that, because Mmm. This prime rib especially and delicious. Like, I'm actually kind of, I wouldn't say shocked, but like I'm pleasantly surprised at how good the prime rib is here. And since it's prime rib night, you'd think they'd bring and they have. Brisket is fantastic. Sausage, real good. I want to get a little bit of Is this common, this thing? Joe: Yeah. Harry: Marshmallows on your sweet potato? Joe: Yeah. It's the most American thing. Joe: Have you not had that yet? No, never. Let's all watch. You'll be shocked to hear in the UK, we don't put marshmallows Joe: You'd be shocked to know, we don't really put marshmallows on a lot. Every time I'm in London, the American aisle, you guys No one eats Fluff in America. I didn't even know it existed Whoever works over at by convincing the rest of We don't eat it here. But what'd you think of that? Interesting. What do you mean interesting? Delicious is what you mean. Very sweet. I like the Well try the potatoes They're sweet enough without it. You could always be a little sweeter. It's still very sweet. Yeah. I love sweet potatoes. Harry: Let me get a piece of the brisket. Yeah. Oh, it's great. OK. they're really winning points with me with having their own They're so good, right? I've now had a fair amount and that's pretty good. Yeah, it's very good brisket. They have a birria ramen. So this is ramen noodles. We got brisket of course, all together. Harry: Something that you of a uniquely LA thing. I thought it was, but apparently not. Here we are. Maybe it originated in LA? The sausage is legit, man. Joe: I don't want to spit my noodles back in there because I got some. This is very good. Harry: I think I prefer that Joe: There's a spice to Mm. Yeah. Well they're even doing birria well. That's not easy. That's not easy. I'm very impressed. Harry: Quality across the board so far. Joe: Dare we venture into dessert land? Harry: I've still got room for dessert. OK. Where did he go? Charlie: To get more food. You're going to get more food? All right. I guess he's getting more food. When in Vegas, man. When in Vegas. Joe: OK. Oh yeah, that looks really good. All right, let's run it Harry: I saw collard greens. I've really enjoyed all the Joe: Oh, I'm glad to hear that. They have collard greens in the UK? Not really, no What do you think? Yeah. That chicken looks amazing. One thing I've noticed about they must be cooking which to me is a recipe for because you're just making But everything we've had is just so good. Harry: Yeah. Joe: Like how's that chicken? They must cook them by the hundreds. Harry: Super good. But I'm not waiting around here, buddy. I want to try one of these creme brulees. Harry: Crack open a dessert while I eat my hummus with my hands again. That's another good thing about buffets. We can eat at our own, we don't have to have dessert together. I don't need to wait for I'm moving, baby. I pull up with a second you're going to eat a It's all fine. This is killer. I think now I am ready for dessert. Joe: Get in there. I'm getting a creme brulee. Little desserts, I like it. I like a variety of dessert. Yeah. I'd much rather have lots of little dainty desserts I totally agree with you. Variety's the spice of life, Joe. You know, I don't want a I want a little cake, cookies, you know, something sweet to drink. You got your tiramisu and panna cotta. I love tiramisu. Joe: Yeah, the tiramisu here is very good. Finishing it off with a We had a lot today, and I think every place with the variety and the quality. Harry: Yeah. about buffets that turned I know I don't eat a lot, but like it's actually kind Yeah. But here, all the places I've The fact that they're of all these delicious and everything tastes amazing is a testament to how Bacchanal Buffet, sheer The selection there was It was the biggest place we've been to, also the most expensive. It was 80-some-odd dollars. Correct? That's a lot of money for a buffet, even if you're eating and prime rib or whatever, so. Yeah, I agree. I think while it was on the I think particularly if you're spending your dinner time there, that's going to be excellent value for money when you consider the expense of all the foods that you're eating, the prime rib, the seafood Like, no one's going to go there and be like, &quot;I don't like anything here.&quot; There's going to be They certainly have like of like, no matter what Go crazy. I think the decadence for me is, yeah. What it comes down to, that's Joe: Yeah. Joe: Market Place to get a grasp on the selection there. Fantastic quality. Well, a little bit more but everything goes fantastic. Nice price point. Also the beer and wine add-on, very nice, especially if you're going to Right? That's some prime for the slots. The tri-tip that we had there Also the pork loin, so good, right? And I like that environment Almost had like a little Yeah, I really dug it there. Yeah after a few days in pretty central, like it's been very intense. So to actually get away come to a slightly more not that far away. But going into it, seeing the price point, I was not expecting the level of quality and care that we got there. I thought the food was excellent. That alcohol deal was absurd. Yeah. It's almost like they want you to get really drunk there, but I can't place my finger on why. If news gets out about they're going to have a storm coming, man. I have to say, if I was employed I would just be every Tube ad in London. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's Vegas. $7, all-you-can-drink beer and wine. You only need like four words. You need free beer, Rampart, Vegas. Get that on a billboard, and there in droves. This economy will triple overnight. And then finally here, AYCE Buffet. That's AYCE, which we Really impressed with the great barbecue. You love the soul food. I mean, they got crab legs. Harry: They got crab They're living up to Joe: Yeah. and come back here for a lobster night. I kind of don't even want to I just want to witness the chaos. Oh yeah, the elbows and stuff. I would witness people to get at that lobster. Get at that lobster. I imagine it's carnage. But yeah, I love this place. I think it's a good environment. We're kind of right in the casino. You're right in the Yeah. And there's still a line. Wow. Unbelievable. And again, I think as far kind of in the middle between That is a good point, yes. But I think the quality, the quantity, and just for your money, it's a good deal. I would struggle to see anyone I don't know, man. Which one do you think was your favorite? I think the one I would go Really? I think for me, you kind hit the nail on the Joe: Yeah. When I think of a Vegas buffet. Joe: But you're the last guy I know. You're the last guy I could ever just see, being like, &quot;More, more!&quot; But when in Vegas, and that's what I want I want the extravagance. I get another day with you. What is tomorrow going to be? Oh my God. Oh no. I'm a pent-up British dude. We don't get many chances That's what Vegas is all about. Oh, OK. Wow. I'm very impressed. Even for 80 bucks, I don't know if I would go I think that would be Yeah. I'm stocking up on the seafood. Yeah, you could do $80 Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. Joe: Absolutely. That's a good point. Huh. I'm actually going to You are? OK. Joe: This is more than enough for me, and I like the price. And the barbecue was incredible, Like, I loved everything here. And the reason that I I feel like I would get at Bacchanal, give or take but it's almost double the price. Harry: Interesting. Yeah, it does make sense. For me, like I say, it comes down to what I see the purpose Which is what? Which is having a blowout, man. I'm here. Like, if you're spending it's Vegas baby. I know, but if you do it here, it's 40 extra quid you could But I won't enjoy the food quite as much, and that's what it comes down to for me. It's a fine margin. I also want to shout out because that food was great. And again, I think for me it's a scale. I think all of them, I wouldn't come away from any of them, feeling like OK. But I don't blame you No judgment from me. I didn't think there was until you made a point to say that. I'm an AYCE man, baby. Let's go. All right, well. Should we go hit the slots? Let's go lose $40.