Jimmy, how do you feel Jimmy, do you feel like Why did you steal the A spectacular crime -- This and there is a lot more about -- in a small town. Shocked. I was shocked. I was so A 28-year-old secret His private jets, wild It was just a surreal there were no limits. This is the story of one heists of all time. He's living this party no visible means of With clues dating back to Bitcoin itself, in a truth about the hackers cryptocurrency in the of bitcoin is leaking out no idea where it's going. It's a huge question. And the man who could have except for one phone call to a nearly decade-long Clark County 911, what is It's Jimmy Zhong, They don't get a lot of Georgia. It's a college University of Georgia. So they're used to bar fights, break ins, Clark County line911. Hey, I was gone for the someone broke into my And what is your name, It's Jimmy Zhong, But this 911 call on the is something that Athens On the phone is 28 year hard-partying University former computer science He's reporting a massive from his modest off I'm having a panic attack. Do you need an ambulance? Zhong sounds distressed missing. If you had an approximate value was of the money? Probably close to But Zhong is sitting on a And with this phone call, because he has a secret learn. Still, he does from him. And when police Zhong calls local private Martinelli to help him that money. He was very nice and kind, so he called me. He just called you out of He did. Martinelli starts her of the crime. So we were able to see in a window and they had Zhong said the thief took 150 bitcoins, then worth It was stashed behind his It was well-hidden. And he kept saying over only a few friends and a kept cash there. So you put his friends Most of them, yes. We went into the bar to some of the houses, Jimmy, went through his media investigations, did But one question sticks in What are you doing with And I asked over and over invested it. It made no And I tell just about me, I'm married to a cop. My girls are cops. The private eye scours the elaborate home video We were able to see that kind of thin, and the to go, like was kind of might be. So you thought this might here before? Correct. Yes. So maybe it's a friend of worked for him. To Martinelli, it seems true friends other than So who are his friends? Who is he hanging out I remember a female, a his age that were just Very casual, plastic, not Jimmy a little bit. They were using him? I don't know if they Yeah. Did he know that? I don't think he knew that. Jimmy wanted to be friends. Jimmy was a good Go back a few years and a think Zhong is a good He's throwing a lot of In addition to his buys himself a home on He buys a boat and jet He was a few years older to party. Stefana Masic goes to a She met Zhong while she University of Georgia. He would buy me and my there were multiple buy shots for everyone at He would buy shots for bar. Yeah. I mean, like, 100 Yeah, pretty much. I remember he lent me and then there was never had to pay it back. When he was a friend, he friend. I would say I having Jimmy as a friend In 2018, when Zhong's make it to the Rose Bowl, friends, rents a private gang to Los Angeles. We all flew private and Airbnb and he got tickets to the game also. He ended up giving was very unexpected, you friend, giving all his on the trip money to just Drive. So it was kind of It was a very crazy I was told it was $10,000 Is that right? Yeah, I think so. It was a So what did everybody buy? Everyone went to the then just bought a lot of coats, stuff like that. It was pretty wild. I mean, that doesn't More than a year after the spree, Athens police are stole hundreds of Zhong's house. Lieutenant Jody Thompson County Police Department and financial crimes He says Zhong has an Cameras bristling at the his home. And whenever happy to share video So we would have DUIs, you would have And Jimmy was always out? Always, always. But Zhong also has a own, including a DUI and years earlier. So Jimmy was in a girls, and he happens to $30,000 worth of blow at come back and party. $30,000 worth of coke? $30,000 of cocaine. Unfortunately for Jimmy, police officer sitting in over. That's just bad It was really bad timing. So with a quick phone officers who arrived and found some drugs on him. And he got a couple of So he's drunk and for coke possession. He's bragging to girls in I mean, the guy sounds bit out of control. I think it was. I think for more. He was looking I think a lot of people And I feel bad for him on naive. Zhong says he spent a wealth partying. Jimmy, admittedly, I've since, probably spent dollars just in partying Half a million dollars in That's what he estimated. Yes. He said he spent a time. He's living this party no visible means of And he said he just made his money and, you And you had no reason to No reason to doubt it. But that changes when the call from agents at the So this is the fall of the out of the Silk Road. Across the country, a investigators cryptocurrency has spent hack of a criminal dark Silk Road. Someone stole drug dealers, gun runners that site. As the price over the next years, the heist climbs to more than They asked me about the in there and if he talked or anything like that. the answers for him. But I told him, let me Jimmy will meet with us. Zhong quickly agrees to they arrive at his body camera is rolling. Hey, Jimmy. How are you? Hey, you remember me? The agents go inside learn more about who I mean, I've always been I've always been just In Athens, Georgia, hundreds of thousands of from local party boy But investigators who a call out of the blue of the IRS. Typically, when we deal agencies, we don't ask a their investigation. Thompson suddenly finds home with two highly investigators a federal working for the U.S. Hey, Jimmy. My name is Trevor special agent with the investigation. My name is Shaun MaGruder. I'm the founder and CEO BlockTrace is a company cryptocurrencies on the The IRS hired MaGruder untangling complicated He's been looking into a web site called The Silk Well, Silk Road is a very users could deposit exchanger, so to speak, purchase goods, services, All the bad guy stuff. All the bad guy stuff. And people thought this and they could just get They thought that. So the blockchain is that all preserved, going back to first launched. So all those criminals It wasn't private. It wasn't private, right? It wasn't private at all. In 2012, somebody steals criminal exchange and try to figure out who A lead in the case years later when MaGruder to Zhong. One of the special agents team calls me and says, 'can you help out and If you just take a look the weekend. That'd be Friday. By Monday, I came said, Hey, I think we And so we noticed some out to us. What was it? What was it? Great It's a good question. Are you allowed to say? That is a sort of technique. You can't talk about it Not that specific But you realize that there you would be able to Right. Absolutely. And then Zhong makes a big small amount of money. Zhong transfers around an exchange that has a Customer, which is The policy requires cryptocurrency from the name and identifying So after issuing a exchange, we had a Because of the subpoena, you the name of the That's correct. And did He did. Investigators follow that Zhong's home, the three go see Zhong, telling him investigate the crime mentioning they're also something else. A much bigger crime. And this never before shows the moment in real Zhong, without investigators right in. Hey, this is Trevor and We went to the door under guys, Shaun and Trevor, me with the investigation bitcoin that was stolen. Yeah, these guys are out a little bit because cases, kind of like what Really? You know, watching that was just desperate for I think that might be no one really knew about, being that wealthy and share it with. And you guys walk in the him and here he opens up. He did. You guys get this solved? I would invite you all up want. All right. I kept again This is so beautiful. Talk about his dog. Beautiful dog. Anything we could do to And as he becomes more eventually I was - I around. Let's see the He'll show us. Yeah, let's see. There's an L-shaped couch. There's slider doors to There's a TV on the wall. There's what appears to over the slider door, was a flamethrower. He had a flamethrower in He did have a doing your own floors? That's leftover from. This is the concrete tile? You do this job for a notice things in homes could hide something for secret compartments house? Yes. It's just kind of the We went upstairs and on my of us with the Athens PD We saw the AR-15 on the Yeah, it looks beautiful, When you see the AR-15 in like this guy could be Yeah, of course. I mean, AR-15 with a magazine in not in any way, shape or ready to go, I mean that Armed or not, they have to Okay. So, I guess kind of did you acquire the I don't even know what I mean, in these days, development. I'm the Zhong shows the he used to store $1 That's the exact case. Is that a ZERO Halliburton It's a random Amazon probably to impress this I was like, impress me. You're impressing us. million cash and have it and just like. You know, back then. Did it work? Nope. That never does. It never does. We eventually went like a party pad built the middle and a full Is this your workout? girls. Okay. Nice. You don't see that too You don't see that very But in behind that bar of computer servers that So I ran CAT6 everywhere. Well, that was a good awesome. That's amazing. Wow. Next, they ask Zhong bitcoin and Zhong reveals crypto goes all the way same year Bitcoin was When did you first dive Huh? When did you first, Investigators begin to see sophistication. This is like, so foreign Bitcoin-mining chips. Oh, I'm just thinking Oh. I mean, the individual into something. They continue to probe his security system. It's like 30 seconds, So did you do that in goes off. Wow. And that will make your But the most important Zhong to open his laptop. Oh, yeah, many. Did you Because this is going to Okay. I'm just watching. It's like you're typing a Oh, wait, that's -- that's So is this, like, the wallet? Where you say you money? This is the hot then the cold wallet is - where it is. That's on I don't even know - Oh, the department or Investigators see the opens the laptop. A wallet filled with an bitcoins. So in the day you walk out of the are leaving and we see driveway. What are you walk out that door? This is incredible. I think we found our guy. Jimmy, pleasure to meet No problem. After the house tour, the have enough. Evidence Silk Road hack. It's all about to come and it's all because he someone had stolen some If he hadn't done that, large in private jets? I believe he would. He's sitting on what would stolen assets, and he theft of just a fraction Who does that? Jimmy. As they dig into Zhong's suspect that Zhong's more than just a typical You don't have to answer. I don't have vast but I mined at least Wow. Blew them all Athens. Over the years, the Silk Road dark web site value to $3.36 billion. Investigators hunting for get into Jimmy Zhong's his laptop. But you don't even have laying around? Oh, I alone. Oh. When you're sitting next opens his laptop. What do you see on that Lo and behold, he had $60 bitcoins right there next So with one glance at the could instantly tell this suspect. He could have That's right. No cameas are rolling the to Zhong's house to for the 50,000 stolen But it's a huge law one thing is critical for They have to get inside When I did the search the agents out of the a hard sell to say, Hey, someone's house tomorrow. Oh, by the way, you may with Bitcoin and there's a chance that somewhere around $3 50,000 bitcoin, and you like, Is this guy from We met at a parking lot enforcement and I was we're doing now. We're warrant today. After we had that search warrant would go, detective and two special They tell Zhong that in stolen bitcoin case, they information on his it's still under the to help him. That's right. I brought with to keep him pacified out of harm's way. And we entered Jimmy's McAleenan is about to truth. Investigators are the crime against him. his house for evidence of We start doing our thing, transactions, you know, computer. So you have to have that passwords entered and from it so you can grab That was the goal. And I attention away from his I asked him if we could balcony over the lake. So he asked Zhong to step open the sticky sliding Jimmy got up, started glass and my co-case jiggler in the computer, move around the screen so We stepped outside my the patio with us, and circumstances, you know, porch, we're like, Oh, And Jimmy's looking at And I said, Jimmy, you I'm actually Trevor agent with IRS criminal here to execute a federal house. And he kind of had punked? Right. It's at that point where the search warrant team Knocked, pounding on the warrant flooded the house panic start to ensue in So that's the first moment Yeah. And you were able one minute where he was grab it and keep it open. Yeah. Officers swarmed for evidence. Zhong's was there the day it I - I didn't know what to I mean, I'd never seen in my walk of life. And then all in my front Upstairs in the bathroom the roof was, in fact, a And in that popcorn tin starts to dry your would possess a popcorn So then one of the apart the different single board computer. Later, we were able to assistance that that bitcoin, millions of Millions of dollars. Using a dog specifically computer hardware, they concrete underneath some In that safe, we found that had the addresses associated with the physical bitcoins that cryptocurrency's early old-fashioned paper November 9th, really late say we were successful. We found the evidence and the house lit up. I cheered. After the cheering dies Investigators also than an ordinary criminal The IRS concluded that a bitcoin OG, slang for the early developers who cryptocurrency. So he contributed to the offer up suggestions on But Zhong said it wasn't allowed him to steal the Road. In his plea stumbled across the flaw In his statement, Jimmy these bitcoin was he was from Silk Road. He had cocaine and he realized clicked, he could put in. Is that what To the instance that he the withdrawal button? We that question. I mean, Yeah, but what gets a complicated is, what we monikers that Jimmy had how much was in the hot September of 2012. So in that instance, he bitcoin from the Silk the max was that he could And he hit that max. Yeah. Zhong says his skills also Ross Ulbricht, the man site that Zhong attacked. Online, Ulbricht went by Roberts, and, according to simply give Zhong the 5000 more as a reward. Jimmy and the Dread contact with each other. That's as Jimmy alleges We couldn't find any position. Why would the Dread Pirate for stealing from the That doesn't make any Our understanding was that helping him fix an error processing system. So the idea is that Jimmy exploited it to to steal And then he sort of sold Dread Pirate Roberts and how I did it if you let Yeah. Court documents Zhong used &quot;sophisticated use stolen bitcoin for estate investments. So he took advantage of out there that would mix other people's out the other end, right? Where they would be In the end, though, Zhong money. After the U.S. government confiscated the opportunity to come bitcoin, but nobody did. Which isn't surprising was an exchange for feds sold off Zhong's Tyler Hatcher is the the Los Angeles field Investigation. So Jimmy U.S. government is going Correct. There's some There is some irony there. Yeah. When you think about this stealing from the Silk the Silk Road were just I mean, you had drug kinds of bad guys on another set of criminals, sympathy for anybody How do you approach a You know, there's that among thieves, right? So when we talk about there, the last thing we able to spend it. Right? That's why we have jobs. That's why we look for Hatcher says some of it local police department The government certainly Jimmy's conduct Michael Bachner is Zhong's If Jimmy had not stolen government had, in fact, they would have sold them as they did with other gotten $320 a coin or million. Now, as a result government has gotten a Bachner says, at the time did not believe he was crime. Bitcoin, back then, was West. The coins had a fluctuating value. At sentencing, Buckner faced from the other kids He's on the spectrum for He was subject to abuse, which included the face for no reason. He would go to school, do because he was really lock himself in his room, on his computer. Nathaniel Popper is the which chronicles the He says a hacker culture bitcoin community. You have to see if you can out how it doesn't work. So when the system broke, opportunity to learn from we strengthen this for If we want this to work to repair the little There's this strange way everybody who played a villain and a hero at the And that conflict, that Road. And I think it's story. Zhong pled guilty to one No friends or family were sentencing, but he letters of support from My heart goes out to in this life is to love love him. In a tearful bitcoin made him feel something and asked for take care of his closest Chad. Chad and Jimmy have an relationship. Chad is 13 has a feeding tube, and effort caring for him. I think he was stuck. He he didn't talk to his So I don't know of but his dog, Chad. His dog. Yeah. That's it. Yeah, his dog I think he just wanted to maybe outsmart having a On April 14th, the verdict We waited outside the two-hour sentencing. Here he comes. Here he In which he received a for his role in the Silk Jimmy, how do you feel Why'd you steal the Did you think you were Anything else to say,