This is me in charge of a cow, whilst I'm drunk. Actually, quite pissed. And although what I was So confused with these images coming It's apparently illegal. And it's the first of a number of old laws [SINGING] Bad boy, bad boy, what you gonna do? But why? Well, if you've been watching this channel for a while, How do I look? But there is another bad boy in town: my friend Zac. That is boiling hot! So we want to go head-to-head to see, Yeah, absolutely. So what, are the rules? Hi Zac, we're outside the Tower of London, ZAC: Oooh! [MAX LAUGHS] I think it's time to turn it into a challenge. We've got 48 hours to break as many old silly laws as we can. Are you in? I'm not scared. Great, let's go. Now, this is a video concept that's been done before, and a Hall of Fame vid here on YouTube, OOBAH: This is a suspicious fish. Zac and I wanted to do our own version, and I thought I would start, with a penny farthing. Under the 1896 Red Flag Act, to travel faster, than 4 miles an hour. And to make my lawbreaking as authentic as possible, they may well have been using, And I'd be learning how to ride one from former army officer Just mount your feet off, Looks easy enough. So after changing into a more otherwise known as my school uniform, I hopped on a very old bike to break a very old law. After a bit of help from Neil, Yeah. Now that I was officially the second best I've got it down. I need to know how fast you can get a speed record. [LAUGHING] He's doing 20, to 19! [LAUGHING] Absolutely rapid! So 4 miles an hour, is definitely possible. Let's see what score these old pins of mine can muster. NEIL: Ooh, come on, Max, you can do it! 14. I'd sailed past the 4 mile an hour speed limit, MAX: Morning, chap. Thank you. Morning, officers. Morning, officers. [SINGING] Bad boy, bad boy, what you gonna do? Whoa, that's tight! And it seemed like the fact we were speeding didn't seem to bother the police one bit - even, at Buckingham Palace. Hello, guys! What's the speed limit here? Uh, I don't know. In fact, they loved my new ride. New BMX? Yeah, absolutely. Nice bike there. Oh, thank you. I've got bigger wheels. He didn't tell me off. Silly law number one well and truly broken... Uh, oh, run! Run away! Next up, crime number two, and I'd need a quick visit to the hardware store. This is what we need. To break this one I'd need some rope, Under Section 54 of the Metropolitan Police Act 1839, without the intention of unloading or loading into a vehicle, along a footway. That's exactly what I'm going to do. Let's walk the plank. Come on, boy. Sorry, guys, nip through here. Sorry, wood coming through. Careful, careful on the wood. Silly law number two smashed, Right, I'm going to leave him alone. Back in Blighty, my next crime took me, to the Post Office. Under the 1904 Postal Services Act, it's against the law to distract and interfere with a postal worker, and therefore a criminal offence, But what is AirUp? AirUp is a hydration system You simply attach one of their flavour pods your brain registers the taste through smell alone. I love my AirUp bottle so much whether I'm filming in America, So click the link in the description to try AirUp today, and be like me getting hydrated with But with our soon to be fully hydrated it was on to another law. Have a good one! MAX: See you in a bit! A law that I actually, wouldn't technically be breaking. I'm actually not going to be breaking a law, There is a law, that says you're not allowed to trespass - that makes total sense - unless, you are climbing a tree, to point, at a fish. And I think I have a fish, Fans of the channel will know that recently And he's currently living in a around the corner from my flat, which just also happens to be next to, a tree. It's my mate Alex's house, where Max Fish lives. He's at work, so I definitely know he's out, I think I know the route. It's through there. Rather than calling Alex and asking him if That's the first time that that sentence has ever been said. I had to sneak into the garden by so that it legally counts as trespassing. There's his flat. I currently look ridiculous. It's the middle of the day on a Wednesday. Now please remember, Alex is a friend of mine, so don't go around trying this yourself. I mean... Climb this tree. Max Fish. Legal. Illegal. Legal. Illegal. Doesn't matter. Right, done, get the hell out of here. As I waddled away from the pond, and I had one more law up my sleeve. But it required me, to get drunk, at 6 in the morning. Under the Licensing Act of 1872, a cow, or a steam engine. Now, I don't know how to drive a train, we lost the Polo World Champs. So in one hour from now, and I needed to be sufficiently sloshed. So I set up camp at the pub, and the other cow, Rosie. Do I seem drunk? Damn. Right on cue, Zac arrived, I'm also dressed like this. Although, this- this could be just Thursday. ZAC: Eurgh! MAX: Ah! MAX: Kids are going to school. How long have you been drinking for? 100 minutes? Then finally, our renegade outlaw cow Rosie arrived. MAX: Yay! ZAC AND MAX: Rosie, Rosie! How much was it to get the 'moo' number plate? Ah, a bit of poo! [ZAC GAGS] I'm pissed, it's 9am, And it wasn't just Rosy's excrement There's a cow in there. Nothing to see here! Hey, we're going this way. Despite the commotion we were causing, So, time to break another law: drunk, in control of a cow. Come on. Final law, in the books. Actually, quite pissed. It seemed that word had gotten out even the Radio 1 Breakfast Show was having a pop. The new photo that Anna sent us, is of a group of people, a man in a cowboy hat there, as well, It's very camp. And as a bonus law break, Rosie's entourage informed us after 10am, is also illegal. And it's 10:01. Naughty, naughty! Right, let's get you home.