- Well, you ask one of the deepest philosophical - For billions of years on this planet, Physics hasn't changed, but now we have free will. - The brains are automatic, but people are free. - Our ability to choose is often confused. - Human choices will not be - In reality, I don't think DANIEL DENNETT: For billions of years on this planet there was life, but no free will. Physics hasn't changed, but now we have free will. The difference is with biology. Particularly evolutionary biology. is that greater and greater competences And the competence of a dolphin, or of the sort of mental competence, is hugely superior ours dwarfs the competence of a dolphin or a And there's an entirely naturalistic story to say, or those competences. And it's that, &quot;Can do.&quot; but it's that power which sets us aside from don't just act for reasons. to ourselves and to others. The business And the person being able to answer, it is the &quot;responsibility,&quot; sort of wears its meaning on its to challenges to our reasons. Why? we act for reasons that we consciously represent and the obligation to think ahead, to anticipate, To be able to evaluate those consequences To share our wisdom with each other. No And it's because we can share our wisdom That's what makes us free in a way that no bird limit to the depth that we as conscious agents can access that we have to what's going on, who's this, &quot;we,&quot; who's got this access? That's a, sort of, boss part of the brain that's sitting is part of the illusion. What it is, is a varying access to varying things and that execute whatever projects it is that they're, STEVEN PINKER: I don't believe there's such a the machine, a spirit, or soul that somehow reads and pulls levers of behavior. There's no sense behavior is the product of physical processes have a brain that consists of a hundred billion there is a vast amount of complexity. That means simple way from the stimuli that have impinged is set up so that there are at least two I shine a light in your eye and your iris and your leg jerks upward. We also know that choose what to have for dinner, whether How to move the next chess piece. Whether is very different from your iris closing when kind of behavior, one that engages vast amounts that incorporates an enormous amount of that has some mental model of the world, that and select them on the basis of those out the realm of behavior that we call free brute involuntary reflexes, but which doesn't ROBERT SAPOLSKY: The polite thing that I've sort free will, it's in all the boring places and If you want to insist that today you decided to rather than your lower teeth, rather than the will, whatever, I'll grant that one to you, that's there's any free will at all. If you look at the someone is going to do the right thing in the next and the variables in there reflect everything because of something unpleasant more selfish, more impulsive, et cetera, to what were a first trimester fetus. When you look at biological organic, where 500 we would have had a harsh moral judgment about it. phenomenon.&quot; And when we're we gonna get to the organisms.&quot; This notion of free will, for want of NYE: Our brains are complicated and they got through evolution, with layer being added is often confused. Our ability to make environment, by our experiences and by MICHIO KAKU: Well, you ask one of the deepest philosophical First of all, there's something called, Newtonian universe is a clock. A gigantic clock that's wound ever since, according to Newton's laws of motion. January 1st has already been fixed. It's already believed in that. Einstein was a determinist. And &quot;that a murderer, a horrible mass murderer &quot;isn't preordained billions of years ago?&quot; And Einstein &quot;That even mass murderers were predetermined. in jail,&quot; okay? Heisenberg then comes along and And says, &quot;Nonsense. &quot;There's uncertainty. &quot;You here, here, or many places simultaneously.&quot; And &quot;God doesn't play dice with the universe.&quot; God does play dice. Every time we look at an regards to the position of the electron. So what sense, we do have some kind of free will. In the given your past history. There's always the of uncertainty in whatever we do. So this Hey, these are philosophical questions that seem JOSCHA BACH: Like consciousness, free will by reference. But it's difficult to know it by of people will immediately feel that free will is or probabilistic. And while physics has some it's not part of our experience. And I don't think randomly to do things, or deterministically. will you are responsible for your actions. For instance, if I am told that if I do X I whether or not to do X, I'm obviously responsible responsibility, in some sense. Or likewise, if I people and I don't want that harm to happen, of decision-making that I would call it's a free nervous system, at any level of its functioning, committed to a particular kind of goal and it gets that I experience as myself in this world. And decision. And this decision is free in as much MICHAEL GAZZANIGA: The essential part of free that that therefore makes you responsible for responsibility. And I think that's very important. work on the brain in any way threatens be understood at the social level. The deal, So the metaphor I like to use is cars and relationships and know exactly how that works. when they all get together and start interacting. description of these elements interacting. So the to the nth degree and that's fine and that's what interfere with the fact that taking responsibility So, the way I sum it up is that brains because people are gonna be...are joining the by. And it's interesting, every social network, that accountability is essential, DENNETT: Intuition pumps are sometimes called thought experiments. But they're not really formal little fables. In fact, I think they're similar to have a moral. They're supposed to teach us audience to an intuition, a conclusion, where you &quot;Oh yeah, it's gotta be that way, doesn't pumped the intuition that was designed to pump. persuasion machines that philosophers have One of my recent favorites, which I devised to going around saying that neuroscience I think their reasons for saying that are doing is apt to be mischievous and doing some real a little intuition pump to suggest that. So who treats a patient who has obsessive compulsive brain, which controls the OCD, the obsessive It's been developed in the Netherlands and it but now here comes science fiction. So the sewed him all up, say, &quot;Okay, your OCD is but moreover our team here will be monitoring everything you do from now on. You will think your own decisions, but really you won't have we will maintain while controlling you. Goodbye, he believes her. She has a shiny lab and, you So, what does he do? Well, he, thinking he self-indulgent, a little bit aggressive, little soon, by indulging some of his worst features, arrested and he's put on trial. And at the trial I'm under the control of the team at &quot;What's this?&quot; And they call the neurosurgeon to you are controlling his every move, he didn't but I was just messing with his head. That was Now, right there, I think we can stop, take a bad. That was...that was really, she really telling him that, actually accomplished accomplish surgically. She disabled him by pretty much turned his free will off and Now, if we agree that she did a bad thing, if what are we to say about the neuroscientists who our neuroscience labs that nobody has free will.&quot; my imaginary neurosurgeon did was irresponsible, irresponsible of them to make these claims Vohs and Schooler, in an important paper, which set up an experiment, really to test given two texts to read. One was a text. They Astonishing Hypothesis,&quot; and one was not about basically it said, &quot;Free will is an illusion. causes that neuroscience is investigating. You All right, so there we have two groups. The group another passage from that book of the same length. puzzle to solve where they can earn some money made the puzzles slightly defective, so there oops, inadvertently revealed to the subjects. And where Crick says, &quot;Free will is an illusion,&quot; In other words, just reading that passage less concerned about the implications of their or worse, in their own decision-making.