In December of 2020, the Arecibo telescope instruments in the world - collapsed. This 57-year-old megastructure not only made its lifetime, it was also an emblem of humanity's the universe. Its loss was felt across the world. The National Science Foundation, who owns to congress on the cause of the failure and Why was this telescope so important, how did I'm Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, we're discussing the The same way we observe visible light from telescopes, we can also take advantage of in astronomy. Most of the gamma rays, x-rays, ultraviolet, blocked out by the atmosphere. But long-wavelength radio waves are not. A radio telescope is basically an antenna radiation that emanate from celestial objects. These radio waves can be quite faint, complicating noise. You essentially have two options to get high-quality The longer you focus on an object, the more But, there's only so much time. To speed up observations, you can also gather into a clearer signal. Arecibo took that strategy to the extreme dish - the largest in the world until China's 2016. Located on the Caribbean island of Puerto and constructed in the 1950s and 60s as a warheads in the upper atmosphere. The National Science Foundation took over endeavors, with help from a few managing partners A big part of Arecibo's mission is education interest in astronomy and atmospheric sciences. If you grew up in Puerto Rico, you almost on a field trip or two or three. The most iconic part of the observatory was Not only could it receive the faintest of allowing Arecibo to work as a celestial radar. It could send out radio signals and measure space, including planets and asteroids. Arecibo facilitated some of the most exciting the Nobel-prize winning observation of binary waves. The telescope's dish was constructed inside Although it looks solid from a distance, the carefully suspended on steel cables. Because the dish was fixed to the earth, it of the sky happened to be overhead. Radio telescopes can be used during the day at over the course of a day or year - but useless. The designers of Arecibo had a pretty clever Rather than using a parabolic shape for the point, they chose a spherical curve. Spherical reflectors don't perfectly focus That might sound like a bad thing since you possible across the entire dish. The beauty of a spherical reflector is that, the reflected waves above the dish, you're of the sky. You can essentially steer the telescope by the dish, allowing you to focus on various Focusing those waves to a narrow area above have a receiver up there to collect and measure The Arecibo telescope was designed with a above the dish to support the various instruments To keep the platform aloft, three reinforced on a clock of 4, 8, and 12, supported each There were originally 4 cables for each corner Big cables. Additional cables, called backstays, were to balance the horizontal forces, similar towers and abutment anchorages. Initially the telescope used line feeds, elongated the focal line of the spherical dish. But, they could only measure signals within to be swapped to change the frequency of the Upgrades in 1997 included the addition of reflectors to focus radio waves. This dome allowed telescope operators to observe But this Gregorian dome didn't just add It also added weight - lots of weight - about All of this extra load required some more So, two auxiliary cables from the platform to balance the load. In addition to that, the dome was far more You can imagine the stiffness and rigidity in the air by narrow steel cables - not an instrument. To compensate, three tie-down cables were increasing the forces even further. A laser ranging system could communicate with in these tie-downs and keep the platform perfectly The telescope's last few years were pretty The 2017 Atlantic hurricane season sent two Rico. Maria was one of the strongest storms ever fatalities and close to 100 billion dollars Arecibo wasn't spared from that devastation. It suffered a broken line feed that fell from the dish, among other damage. More consequential than hurricanes, though, The National Science Foundation had been trying projects. In 2018, the University of Central Florida funding of the observatory, not knowing what Only a few years later, in August 2020, one free from its socket unexpectedly in the middle As the cable failed, it crashed through the aluminum panels. These sockets, called spelter sockets, used way to terminate wire ropes and cables, but You have to broom the end of the cable, making others, clean them meticulously, then carefully a permanent wedge that only gets tighter with If done properly, the termination should be In other words, there's no good reason a And yet, this was not the first incident of Maintenance staff at the observatory had been This failure was the beginning of the end it yet. The damage from the failed cable was significant, structure believed it could be repaired. The suspended platform was designed with some necessarily catastrophic. Managers put a temporary stop to the science could be installed. But, it had to be designed first. As a first step, engineers developed a structural to evaluate options for repair. One nice aspect of cable-supported structures one just by looking at it. All cables sag under their own weight, following The more tension in the cable, the tauter If you know the weight of the cable, you can sag distance to estimate cable force fairly A sag survey was conducted at Arecibo using was calibrated. To make sure the model could predict how changes engineers performed some pretty clever validation Since they had measurements of the instrument failed, they could remove that cable in the the platform to what actually happened. When the first cable failed, that corner of or about a meter, and the model was able to While all this design was taking place, further In November, only 3 months after the first This time it was one of the original cables It didn't pull from its socket but simply And it broke at a force well below what it of its rated strength to be precise). The falling cable again damaged parts of the standing. However, optimism about the structure was The question went from, "how do we fix the And there were differing opinions. The engineers used the structural model to in the remaining cables and reduce the possibility They could cut the broken cables since they're anymore. They could move the Gregorian dome so that weight. They could loosen the backstays, causing the And of course, they can add some temporary All of these options showed reductions in but the problem was figuring out how to do At this point, they had two failures, both of the cables. Not only had the telescope lost its structural trust the strength of the remaining cables, Crews couldn't access the site due to the all the options to relieve the load on the platform and towers. One of the engineering firms working on the to save the structure. After that, they could perform proof tests if the remaining cables had at least 10% extra If the engineers could gain some confidence might be able to enter the site and implement However, no one could get comfortable with testing the already distressed cables. It is a tough thing to say, when such an important there's no path forward to repair. This quote from the engineer tells the whole "It is unlikely any of these methods will crews in jeopardy...Although it saddens us structure should be demolished in a controlled They wouldn't get the chance, though. On the morning of December 1st, a third cable that would quickly collapse the structure. Amazingly, one of the observatory staff was it happened, capturing this incredible footage It happens almost instantly. Two of the main cables are already clearly All the chipped paint is from individual strands Observatory staff could hear these breaks why the drone was up there in the first place. The third cable snaps, and the remaining cables, follow. The drone turns around to reveal the platform The observatory also had a Gopro set up in You can see the cables let go from Tower 4, cables crashing through the suspended catwalk, from the unbalanced force of the backstays. All three towers suffered failures, major platform and instruments it supported were Several buildings, including the visitor center, Thankfully, even though there were people had established safe zones away from the structure, Several forensic investigations are still cables. Those results could be years away, so we don't gave way when they should have had more than Engineers involved during the event suggested correctly. Whether the spelter sockets were installed details required to do it properly, and it's And once those sockets are installed, they As for the second cable, the engineers suggested steel. The cables were painted regularly and reportedly dry air between the strands (although those around each cable). Even so, Arecibo sat nearly 60 years only Puerto Rico, and exposure to that salty sea main cables. Another element worthy of scrutiny is the This is the quotient of a structure's demands The whole point of a factor of safety is to We predict the demands on a structure. We compare them to the strength. We recognize that there might be extra forces of reasons outside our control, so we give The Arecibo suspended platform cables were meaning they were twice as strong as the expected That might seem like a lot, but consider that 11, and many bridges use safety factors above In aerospace engineering, where weight is to build enough confidence in designs to get Arecibo was a unique facility, unlike any It didn't go through a rigorous structural And, it was designed before computer modeling the static and dynamic forces it could experience. I think it's worth considering whether the little extra margin, especially considering would be required. A cable failure is a violent event. All the load the failed cable was carrying other cables evenly and gently. The dynamic loads that occur as the structure than the static loads. It wouldn't be surprising at all to find cables on Tower 4 actually did exceed their cable broke, even if only for an instant. Despite the collapse, Arecibo Observatory other facilities on site. As of this writing, crews are still working and the National Science Foundation is holding I hope that eventually they can replace the and forward-looking as the Arecibo telescope It was an ambitious and inspiring structure, Thank you for watching, and let me know what