- Today, we're going to talk Why are they so important? Why are they, I think, How do you tell if yours is good or not? And how exactly do they affect All this and more, we will answer today. Now this is kind of important. I'm going to talk today that I think are good and What I can't do is really of the market, so I can't tell you who's making bad baskets necessarily or where different manufacturers are, so we're not actually going to pick on anyone necessarily today and say &quot;you're doing a we'll talk about how to literally identify a well-made basket from Now, I need to do just because the invention is a relatively modern thing, a little bit more, it wasn't really something we despite the fact that actually on the way that we were making espresso. Because you've got to from Italy, it comes from and modern espresso had started of coffee in the same baskets. And we hadn't thought about the way that the baskets themselves were impacting the coffee we were making. Now we would have funny I've seen baskets split at the bottom, I've seen badly made in a two group is totally than the other, because the in that regard and it can So it became a thing we to one man, one company. Vince Fedele of VST who who also make refractometers. He had a very big impact on the industry. His background: he did I think first external hard drive, he and he'd built a 3D fingerprint scanner. And one day he put his onto his 3D fingerprint by the results. What he saw was a lack of at the bottom of the basket. Not just with the varying sizes, some weren't proper holes, there hadn't been properly and then he put a different basket on and saw, even though it it was different again. And he saw an opportunity and that I think had a really I was, for disclosure, a beta in what would have been maybe 2010. It did result in me making one of the most satisfying Tim Wendelboe, fantastic also a blunt and fussy man, and I don't think he would mind me saying that, he has strong to share them. Well, he came to visit and in his espresso blend, Because we were just at the beginning of understanding weight in, weight out, understanding the And then having this basket that let me properly extract coffee let me serve him something in his shop. And he left annoyed and that made me embarrassingly delighted. But let's get into why and how they might make It's important to understand the puck of coffee is to create resistance to the but the basket plays a role too. It's not just total open area, it is mostly a solid surface with some very small holes That means that the basket What Vince very quickly worked out was that for a fixed amount of coffee, that resistance should it should match. So that if you were say brewing 14 grams, you might want to have more resistance from the basket than if you Because if you kept the to grind your 18 grams much much coarser to have a similar flow decreases your extraction, you are tempted to roast darker, you get into a cycle, a kind of spiral of dark roasting under of the industry had And so Vince came along and offered a different kind of thing, and he began to produce baskets If I get one for an 18 gram basket and one for a 22 gram basket, you'll see that they're You get a little chart and the hole sizes that's but you'll see there's a difference in the distribution between the two. So as a quick illustration I'll show you a kind of simple experiment. I'm going to grind for espresso, a little I'm gonna give it a good mix up, so that for each of these two doses they're going to be And I'll put 18 grams and I'll put 18 grams And we'll compare the flow from each one because the 22 gram basket we should see a faster flow. Now I know there'll be some impact from there being a larger headspace in the 22 gram basket, but really we're looking and I think it's a nice illustration of the difference you Now this is all taken by these things: pressurized They look normal on one side, but you'll typically see on the other side. These are there to have the basket itself, add all the resistance that's missing because you're using When you use properly the basket doesn't have if you're using pre-ground coffee, the basket has to do a lot more work, and so that's literally The basket is adding all the to give you a kind of and to let you build the to pull out any CO2 that's in the coffee to give you some sort of so that's the extreme. And you kind of don't if you've got a good grinder. Now, if you're out there you've got a number of of the basket that you buy. You'll see some baskets have some do not, and the and ridgeless basket, isn't It's in the wider utility In an espresso machine portafilter, you'll have a little spring, but it's just a piece of wire and holds the basket. If this is weak or the basket there to help give you another the basket in so that when that the basket doesn't fall out too. In most cases, these clips to not need a ridge on no ridge means that the and that's a good thing. So I am a big fan of and I would rather change and have a stiffer one from a kind of workflow perspective, just because the easier, the better. Now, the other thing with different baskets in terms of volume is actually the literal If you take an 18 gram well, one is literally to allow more coffee in there the shower screen, you don't want to be mashing coffee against the shower screen that so larger doses should that makes total sense. You can always underdose a basket, and the downside will at the end is kind of sloppy and loose because it's had a lot of space to expand at the end of the shot. So when you finish brewing it discharges the pressure and that causes the puck to expand. The more space you have for expansion, the looser and wetter the It doesn't tell you a lot more than that so from a, again, workflow perspective, I like to have a dry puck at the end because it knocks out cleanly, but if I have to drop the dose, that's fine if I could I would go for the largest I might pick a 20 gram even though I might brew but I can't brew 20 or certainly 21 in an 18 gram basket. So if you're going to pick one, go just a little bit that's my kind of recommendation, but I understand that will Now, if you want to assess it's kind of easy to do a The first thing you should to the light and inspect the holes. If they are inconsistent in sizing, if there are some holes that through and sadly that if they're kind of clogged or you can see the hole itself it's kind of burred-shaped, you don't have a well-made basket. They are sadly very common, they will age really to split those kinds of burred holes will brew kind of that are properly machined, Espresso is hard enough, making your life harder. You can go a little further with a microscope if you have one to hand or a magnifying glass. I think you'd be kind of with a cheaper espresso machine basket and you compare that to one and it's not just VST. I think Pullman do a nice set too, IMS makes some nice baskets, you'll really really see the difference. Now, you'll see that all of these baskets are generally and these are double baskets designed for at least 13, 14 grams of coffee to pull what is a double espresso. There are single baskets, these Generally speaking, there and they have a smaller open because you want to sort to having half the dose They are obviously a different the same dose, but cut in half Rarely do you see these used in homes, but you do see them used In fact, the kind of single basket is, I feel like, used more often than not in Italy compared to the double. There are lots of different there you'll see some that some that are almost little sort of sections in the middle of the basket kind of dropped down, they are more difficult to prep, they're more difficult to brew evenly, they're more likely to channel or extract unevenly under And so they're a really if you're looking for one for espresso, if you think espresso is easy, get yourself a single basket I think that's a good challenge. Brewing better with it is and a different topic but these things they're just not but good results are possible. You've just got to work for And so that is a very quick overview of espresso machine baskets. I would strongly recommend for just about every buying a precision basket. It is reliable, it's well-made and it will because it will let you grind finer than most baskets will typically let you. That higher open area is really useful if you want to up your extraction game, especially if you're using lighter roasts or kind of trickier to more interesting coffees. Don't be surprised if you and you see your flow What was brewing at maybe 28 in 17 seconds, even though that's pretty normal. That's the difference in the that I think can be shocking The end result, I think, is a than you would get from a cheaper basket and a more reliable result. And if you're in a cafe, so that you know that one to the other and to a third. It's all too common with cheap machines to have a different because the baskets don't and extremely annoying. There's a few brands I would recommend, I'll leave some links to I think IMS do do a 54 millimeter basket for those of you that or other machines with smaller baskets, 58 millimeter baskets are and there's a couple more but I'm not going to say I would just generally are a good investment, will and now I want to hear from you. Did you have a big change in how you were brewing when you switched to one of these baskets? Did it make your espresso taste better? I'd love to hear from you but for now, I'll say thank you so much for watching and I hope