- What happens when you and then start spinning the turntable? Intuitively, you might expect the ball to be flung from the turntable. That's certainly what But look, instead the of circular motion on the plate. The ball does eventually but it takes ages. (turntable spins) Compare that to the behavior of a penny, as you would expect, the penny (penny drops) Or a toy car if, if a it flies off the turntable quite quickly. But even if it's pointing tangentially, it still leaves the turntable. What about if we start What if we simply drop the then it flies off? But what if I hold the ball in position so it gets up By the way, this is a as opposed to a giant hand. Look, when I let go, the and it maybe that's the first clue as to what's going on, actually. But before we dive in, look what happens when I We're now back to that circular motion, except this time it's not of the turntable, which And here's something really crazy. Let's compare how long it versus the ball to go round I'll count the turntable turns out loud, you keep an eye on the ball orbits. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. And look, in the time it took for the turntable to rotate seven times, the ball completed two orbits. And that's always the way. It doesn't matter how heavy the ball is, it doesn't matter how big the ball is. It doesn't even matter how there will always be unless the ball is hollow, in which case it's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. It's a five to two ratio. Why is that? Well, let's first explain Why does the ball just sit there spinning at exactly the right speed? Well actually, why not? There's a single point of contact. The ball only knows about that one point of contact, and that one point of contact is moving to the And if we assume that the force of friction is strong enough and assuming that we have held onto the ball until it's brought up to speed, then we should expect it to There's very little air resistance because it's not moving through the air. Some areas dragged along the But generally speaking, of motion, the ball should And crucially, there's no force or inwards for that matter. But what about that circular motion? Well, when the ball is in the spinning speed of the ball matches the To say that more precisely, of the ball's surface, is moving at the same speed as the surface of the But if I nudge the ball inwards, well, the ball is now spinning faster than the turntable directly Because this point on the than this point on the turntable. So, if the ball is rotating faster than the ground beneath it, in the direction that it is rotating. In other words, the ball Let's analyze that a bit Remember, the ball is moving with a relatively small velocity, shown here with a yellow arrow as a result of two much larger velocities You've got the large in this direction, and you've got the slightly larger velocity to the turntable in The velocity of the turntable the velocity of the ball so you have a small absolute velocity of the ball shown in yellow. But what happens when in this new position Well, the velocity vector of the turntable here shown in because it's further from but also the direction has changed. Again, the absolute velocity of the ball is the yellow vector. It's the sum of the and you can see how it's changed as a result of the In reality, this change of So we expect this curved You can do a similar analysis at different points around the orbit, and you find the same thing, that the ball follows this curved path. In fact, if you do the linked to a paper in that that curved path is So with no slippage, no air resistance, you get a perfectly circular path. In reality, that circular I believe that's mostly because of slipping as opposed to air resistance. But the result is a spiral. The ball drifts towards the center of the disc until the center of the disc is inside the orbit of the of the ball causes it to I've tried various things One that worked quite well was whose surface is shiny and it takes much longer By the way, if you're enjoying this video please consider watching For example, my last video was about logic gates made of DNA. This is an and gate. How cool is that? Link in the card and the Also consider subscribing Why does the ball orbit twice for every seven turns of the turntable? Well, I've given quite a of what's going on here, but if you do the proper eventually an equation drops out for the orbital period of the The orbital period of the ball is equal to the orbital period of the turntable, This thing is the mass by the radius of the ball squared divided by the moment of inertia The moment of inertia of how hard is it to get the thing spinning? And that certainly depends and you can calculate the moment of inertia for spherical geometry, in other words, a ball, by integrating all these little slices. The details don't matter, but of inertia is equal to 2/5 of the mass of the ball multiplied by the Rearranging that, we get that the mass of the ball multiplied by by the moment of inertia is But look, we have that in our original equation. So we can substitute 5/2 plus one is 7/2, so we of the ball is equal to 7/2 multiplied by the orbital period of the turntable. In other words, for every you get two orbits of the ball. The reason it's different is because the moment for a hollow ball is different, because all the mass is on the outside, the integration is with a ratio of five to two instead. You can also think about this in terms of the Coriolis force. The Coriolis force you might that you only experience when you're in a rotating reference frame, that's a non-inertial reference frame. And because we're analyzing if you like, which is not that useful to think in But in the same way that in the Northern Hemisphere when I nudge this ball towards the center of the disc, Something else quite cool is if you tilt the turntable. Look, if the turntable isn't obviously the ball rolls off. But look, when the turntable is spinning, instead of the ball rolling it rolls perpendicular to that, which is very reminiscent When you apply a force to a it moves perpendicular to that. That's elegant, isn't it? Or maybe it's a coincidence. I don't know. I mean, sure, there's a link there. It's like spinning things, you know? I dunno. Maybe discs also behave That's quite fun, isn't it? So there you go. Balls and other round things The Land is a nickname for a place in Germany The reason you need to know about The Land is because it might just for your business or perhaps That's because the land is a hotbed of innovation surrounded What I really want you to do Look, link on the screen there. It's a humorous documentary style thing. Imagine an advertising executive of selling the land to but perhaps he hasn't It's good fun, the link is so check out The Land today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe and I'll see you next time.