Carlos Sainz will drive for Williams Scuderia Ferrari for the 2025 Formula One season. Although Williams is an up-and-coming team, the issues they undoubtedly still have will Let's examine the problems and I'm Wimbo, here's three seconds to leave a like. As I said in the intro, Williams is an I have a lot of sympathy for them, and I worst team for a few seasons a few years ago. They started quite late with developing their car, the FW46, due to the lack of real-world Williams used the winter break to move away from Their computer software is a . a lot in the first races of the 2024 season. wheel with integrated screens, like all the issues like brake balance problems. Where in 2023, the car was very fast on The 2024 car had better cornering They lost some speed in high-speed sections. 2023 on a circuit like Monza, for instance. 2024 season racked up a pretty hefty This caused them to have a huge shortage At one point, Logan Sargeant couldn't race The reason was that there was no spare chassis. A very bad look for an ambitious Williams has been taken over by Dorilton an investment group that aims to bring However, compared to the other big names They struggle with under-invested facilities and compete properly with the rest of the grid. that man can sell ice to an Eskimo. and sometimes, he talks a bit too much. which were pretty shameful, to be honest. The last big mistake I noticed was when Franco Sargeant, begged his team to be pitted He pleaded with them and was telling him to stay out, and then he crashed. but I did feel sorry for the kid. car for such a short time, having That was a big mistake from Vowles and his crew, Williams Racing hasn't been Their strategy team is way smaller The people who work there are So it's no wonder these mistakes happen. I'm sure some of these problems have been it's a fact that Williams for instance, Mercedes is, and even they struggle! James Vowles is very optimistic He said in interviews that he feels on the grid now that Carlos Sainz has signed. for years now, they can drive the team forward. a great help to the team based in Grove. of a lot of troubles they had in recent years. I'm not convinced. ahead when it comes to a lot of things, and I think when one difficulty is Cars do not necessarily become faster We saw that with the speed they A car can become faster overall and still score Tom Stallard, Sainz's engineer at McLaren gain a tonne of technical knowledge He says Carlos is a big asset technical department in the right direction. time is that Vowles has said immediate results future in the new regulations. "It's the message that Alex and Carlos both So, if the team principal says this, then It's as simple as that. due to the lack of availability of other seats, I Carlos Sainz has won four races in his The Ferrari cars he drove in previous had a fair share of tricky traits to deal with. times and the number of crashes over the years. lesser strategy team against a settled teammate. he still has to fight Alex Albon, who is A teammate fight is something that takes I also believe that Sainz's driving He's not one of those drivers who can get I hope for his sake that both he and and that the spare-part problems It's clear that Williams isn't financially strong It will be something he needs to get used to. races when he's fighting up front; he I think he'll have a much harder time with Besides having more accident-prone much harder to oversee when there are ten And even if Williams doesn't have any of they'll still not compete at the front. podiums and pole positions, it must be hard That is the reality of Carlito's I'm sure he'll try to make the best out of great either, but this is a clear step down in We will see a grumpy look on and he'll wish Hamilton would just have retired He has a lot of obstacles to overcome, which is having no seat. If you want early access to my special vlog. Try my membership for Take care now!