January 20th, 1969. The 37th president of the United States Few had thought His party had been against him. The sitting president hated him, but against the odds, Bobby showed toughness, You see him show some of the courage You could see his desire He went up against probably and it looked His campaign was about reconciliation, and bringing everybody together. It was a presidency It was a presidency to chart the course It was a presidency that was not to be. For the last 50 years, America has been looking could have given us. He's someone because they felt like they'd seen him and come out the other side Had he lived, I think he would have been It is the story of a Cold War warrior of a son, a privilege, It is a story of tragedy and triumph, It is the story Cape Cod on America's Atlantic coast. Like many wealthy families, it was here that the Kennedys In 1930, Bobby Kennedy was four years old. He was the seventh of nine children His siblings mocked his back teeth, One day while they were out sailing, Bobby decided to show them He jumped off the boat and almost drowned. Bobby always had that quiet, that gut instinct for the sudden gesture. It was an inner resolve Bobby was what his dad described He was shy, not sociable, and naturally gregarious Bobby Kennedy was an introverted child. He really, in a way, Bobby was a devout Catholic, By embracing that part of his mother, he had a different relationship with her His father, Joseph P. Kennedy, especially the boys. Joseph P. Kennedy was among the wealthiest It was Cape Cod for summers He had made a fortune in the stock market. He was about to expand and into other financial pursuits, He knew everybody in Boston. He was a big mover and shaker, Joe Senior set the pattern that you fell in line Kennedy was a powerful figure He was determined that one of his sons of the United States. It was his eldest child, Joseph Jr., However, in August 1944, he was killed while on a dangerous mission He was just 29. Joe Jr. was the golden child. The devastation to Joe Kennedy to all of the eight remaining kids It broke the whole family to pieces, He didn't know what to do. This was his older brother, He was 10 years older than Bobby. He was a real hero to Bobby. He took the news very, very hard. He also understood that he now has to play and that he had not thought Joseph Kennedy shifted his ambitions In 1946, he won his first election, becoming congressman That same year, He wasn't a stellar student. The teacher said He was a C student, Bobby was a little outshone academically However, Bobby did excel his brothers He was the first of them to marry. Ethel Skakel was the roommate Bobby was in those years shy pulled out of him. There was nobody better in the world outgoing, gregarious, Thanks to a word from his father, in 1951, the newly married Bobby began work However, within months, His brother Jack was running for Senate. His father wanted the 26-year-old Bobby He took the role and that was something It was Bobby It was Bobby doing all the dirty work where Jack could look He was his consiglieri. Bobby Kennedy understood very clearly His job was to help the Crown Prince, The election took place on the same day That saw Republican Dwight Eisenhower The Kennedy brothers bucked the trend. John F. Kennedy was elected senator. Great comment. I'm sure you're glad it's over, -I am, Jack. Weeks later, He joined the office of another senator, It was not a Democrat, however, and one of the most notorious men Joe Kennedy had given enough money that when he called up and said, Joe McCarthy was going to give him a job. He was a staunch anti-communist that there were subversive communist types at all levels, and he was going to root them out. You had these hearings on TV and Joe McCarthy would ask people accuse them of all kinds of stuff, and Bobby would be at the table He was there. Bobby Kennedy's role with Joe McCarthy It was rooted in the idea and somebody Bobby Kennedy believed He believed, like Joe McCarthy, that was greater Bobby soon became disillusioned, however. His advancement He clashed with them repeatedly. He left the senator's office Bobby was nearing 30 and desperate That opportunity finally arrived in 1957, when he became chief counsel Bobby was on that committee such as the labor unions, He especially went after the most powerful union leader in America the head of the biggest union which represented all the truckers. This was a guy named Jimmy Hoffa. This experience suited Bobby, because he felt and he was a very right and wrong person, At the root of his experience was Bobby Kennedy's desire to expose corrupt people, to expose the problems because that's what he believed Bobby Kennedy saw what was going on as almost as big a threat Hoffa would continue to elude justice, but Bobby's efforts were not unnoticed. He was no longer the &quot;runt&quot; There was even talk However, In 1960, his older brother Bobby would be there to help. 1960. This was the year It would bring a presidential election It had long been earmarked First, though, Bobby Kennedy was the person He had been so successful that he had taken and he was fiercely committed to this. You didn't necessarily win through primaries. They were more important He did it by taking on the opposition, taking on the difficult issues would be an instrument of the Pope. Bobby took on all those issues. He ran a pretty innovative campaign. He wanted to tap the excitement, novelty, and sense of freshness It was a glimpse of what Early victory in Protestant West Virginia could break down In primary after primary, but the nomination was not secured yet. The decision would be made in Los Angeles. There, the Kennedy's last possible rival, Lyndon Baines Johnson was arguably one who ever lived He was an absolute master of politics. He was the Senate majority leader and was one He decided to run Johnson had entered the race late. He thought, based on his name he could still maybe get the nomination. He thought he would be able to control at the Democratic convention. He didn't need to enter the primaries Bobby had disliked Lyndon Johnson and the feeling was mutual. Bobby Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson Lyndon Johnson was a politician because he understood Bobby Kennedy was the moralist. He didn't like the politicians He started off as a schoolteacher and the Kennedys were rich guys, There was this enmity that began. Lyndon Johnson tried to get out a story Bobby Kennedy found out, Bobby Kennedy &quot;No, my brother doesn't have In fact, Jack Kennedy Bobby Kennedy essentially flats out lies, Then Johnson ends up backing down. It made Bobby Kennedy hate Lyndon Johnson Johnson's dirty tricks failed. I can assure all of you here who have reposed this confidence in me that I will be worthy of your trust. We will carry the fight and we shall win. Now JFK had to choose a running mate. One man's connections and knowhow Johnson would share the Kennedy ticket, but neither he nor Bobby Jack went on to face in the general election. Once again, It would be the narrowest of triumphs. At last, the Kennedys After Jack was elected, Joe Kennedy, his father, &quot;Okay, what about Bobby?&quot; Bobby didn't want He wanted to go do something by himself. Bobby said to his brother, &quot;What will we do about my situation?&quot; He said, &quot;Look, I need somebody next to me Bobby accepted right then and there. His official title was Attorney General, which was an interesting title for a guy in a court of law. He was very inexperienced and was one of the youngest Is this the right person Should you be putting The 35-year-old Bobby with more than 30,000 employees His power extended far If you couldn't get past Bobby, He was the gatekeeper, He was everything to Jack Kennedy. He looked to his brother and expected his brother within the cabinet and the government, to advance his agenda John Kennedy didn't have a chief of staff. His brother became his chief of staff. When Bobby spoke, but also his brother. He was the closest thing and probably will ever see Bobby was there and when the world faced the horrors he was at his brother's side once again. There are a lot of conflicting stories and who was most influential and who was articulating It's really hard now for people or were too young Kennedy was confronted If he responds, it could mean war. Bobby Kennedy was right in that room, giving him advice. It was a 13-day crisis. Bobby would have you believe in the book that he was the great dove. He is depicted as someone with a more aggressive solution, whether an airstrike The truth is, Bobby Kennedy and it was midway through the crisis that a middle ground of a blockade from a nuclear Armageddon. Bobby jumped on board Nuclear confrontation was averted. The crisis passed. Energies in the White House America remained an unequal, unjust land. The Kennedy brothers The support of pro-segregation had been crucial to their victory in 1960 and would be again, It's not necessarily the top priority, and it's not necessarily something He started out as clueless having grown up in lily-white worlds. There was voting rights laws As attorney general, Bobby Kennedy's Department of Justice and prosecute cases to try in southern states. There wasn't a lot of action in the Kennedy administration. It was the violence suffered that opened Bobby's eyes. The activists fighting segregation by white mobs in Anniston, Local police colluded in the attacks. This is a rude awakening for Bobby Kennedy in terms of dealing who will tell him one thing to be perpetrated on these activists. He then started to get much more involved. I think he identified with him he understood something quite profoundly. Black people knew that he did. He ended up becoming one maybe ever, Bobby said, &quot;Look, we have to do this, &quot;We have to go all in with these people,&quot; &quot;because this country &quot;if we don't go all in with them.&quot; Bobby expanded the civil rights division He demanded that government He convinced his brother, the president, that civil rights was the defining This nation was founded It was founded on the principle and that the rights of every man when the rights of one man are threatened. As ever in the White House, The end of 1963 approached, and thoughts turned due the following year. The Kennedy machine geared up once more. Campaign visits were sketched out, Among the first Bobby was at home when the news came. He'd just taken a swim on his lunch break and was about to head back when the phone rang. It was the direct line to the White House. It was urgent. Ethel Kennedy, his wife, picks it up &quot;It's J. Edgar Hoover As soon as Bobby heard that, He knew that Hoover J. Edgar Hoover said, &quot;The president has been shot, He was ashen-faced and shocked. In that moment, Bobby Kennedy's life It created a fatalistic feeling in Bobby. His brother was the golden boy, anything could happen now. Anything could happen. Bobby became America's mourner in chief. Every time a picture was taken, he was there delivering Bobby pulled it together, Just when the rest of the family started just when the country was coming Bobby crashed and burned. Out of the public eye, Jack had been his work Bobby had nowhere to hide from his grief. He questioned his faith. He couldn't understand how this happened. How could God let something He would drive around in a convertible with the top down, He would go to work and would look so out of it It lasted until the following Fall, It was devastating for him. There was one person who came close his sister-in-law, He went to help his sister-in-law, because she was there when it happened. He died on her lap. She recommended certain books to RFK, who had never been and had never been In this moment, when his faith is shaken he's looking for something. He started to question certain things. It was Jackie Kennedy who gave him His whole philosophy as he got older, he believed, and make gentle the world we live in. That came directly from the Greeks. Robert Kennedy goes on an intellectual What comes out of that is actually his own sense of purpose, and a sense that he still wants Bobby had to figure out at that point for the rest of his life. Was he going to go off and be a monk, or travel the world and his burgeoning family or was he going After Jack's death, Lyndon B. Johnson Many hoped it would be Bobby but the two men hated each other. They went through a long dance Bobby said that he wanted it, and LBJ said These two guys hated one another enough The last guy in the world in the White House was Bobby Kennedy. He said, basically, &quot;If this guy is my vice president,&quot; &quot;people will think &quot;I'm not going to win the next election Despite the clamor the president chose Bobby remained as attorney general, but his vast influence He helped to push which Lyndon Johnson also pushed He and his enemy, Lyndon Johnson, Johnson couldn't have done it and Bobby couldn't have done it backing it. He stayed there mostly and wanted to pass that. When that passed in July, Bobby resigned as attorney general shortly after announcing his bid Finally, he was launching Ultimately, he decided that he wanted but he wanted to do so in a new way, He struggled a little bit. He understood He didn't understand He talked a lot about his brother. He used some of the same gestures In a lot of ways, I think he saw that campaign Some of his aides told him, It wasn't until the middle when it looked like to lose an election, On November 3rd, 1964, Lyndon Johnson That same day, He had a different kind of stature He was able to shine a spotlight and he did that immediately. He believed that poverty that the United States He started to look at ways to affect that. Bobby Kennedy set up in a place called Bedford-Stuyvesant. It was the biggest ghetto in America. It was in Brooklyn, New York, That became the model for Lyndon Johnson's No senator was more effective and an end to racial injustice America was a divided nation. The pace of change, too slow for some, All the while, The US had been involved in the conflict The Kennedy administration, had broadened that military aid. It was under Johnson He didn't want to look like the guy and lost America's first war. Johnson committed combat troops. He started bombing campaigns and become a much bigger war of the public conversation. Bobby had been a hawk in the early 1960s but the situation in Vietnam and so had Bobby. Bobby Kennedy was concerned At first, he tried He was worried He was worried about implications At the same time, he was incredibly worried Lyndon Johnson wasn't about to listen or anything important. In 1967, Bobby traveled to Europe. There, he held talks who backed peace in Vietnam, but the discussions Johnson was furious. Johnson saw this as an attempt He personally who thought he was conducting and challenging his position as president. Bobby Kennedy decided against the Vietnam War that Lyndon Johnson In March of 1967, he gave a speech on the Senate floor and said that this was not the right way He was the first one to matter, to get up on the floor &quot;Mea culpa.&quot; &quot;We got it wrong.&quot; &quot;We made a mistake, &quot;We've got to get out of Vietnam.&quot; He was the most effective in America in the mid-1960s. Johnson had assured the American people In January 1968, A wave of surprise attacks targeted cities across the country. America's enemy was far from beaten. The American people, that the war was almost over and there was a light had seen the battles and believed They felt deceived somewhat It was a real unnerving moment and it was an important turning point about the war. The Tet Offensive could not have come 1968 was a general election year. He was entitled but by now he was deeply unpopular. There was talk in the Democratic Party Lyndon Johnson had won one in 1964. Yet by 1968, the Vietnam War was unpopular in the state of New Hampshire, a young, no-nothing senator was running against him. It's unusual to challenge As an incumbent president, you would expect without too much trouble. Eugene McCarthy, and the Republican write-in votes, beat the sitting president The president was even weaker The Democratic nomination were up for grabs. Bobby's thoughts turned to a gift When Jack first won the nomination, he'd given his trusted campaign manager Inscribed on it were the words, &quot;When I'm through, how about you?&quot; On March 16th, 1968, Robert Francis Kennedy I do not run for the presidency merely but the proposed new policy. Bobby was a seasoned campaigner, but his entry into the contest Exactly four days after Eugene McCarthy by beating him in New Hampshire, Bobby Kennedy jumped into the race Was it political opportunism? Was he jumping in because Eugene McCarthy has shown that The truth is that a full nine days Bobby Kennedy had told and everybody who was close to him, He decided to delay it so that he wouldn't deny McCarthy It was ham-handed, but he was trying to do a favor Bobby announced his run on the same spot almost a decade earlier. Bobby was now his own man. His platform civil rights, poverty, Bobby knew it would be difficult. If he had enthusiastic support from some, Toppling an incumbent president, would be no simple task. Also, he said: &quot;I shall not see,&quot; &quot;and I will not accept&quot; &quot;the nomination of my party Nobody could believe he said that. The whole United States erupted. This guy was going. Johnson was exhausted. He had been dealing and the anti-war protests. Lyndon Johnson Suddenly Bobby Kennedy is there doing exactly what Johnson fears, saying, &quot;I'm the heir.&quot; &quot;I'm the person Johnson took himself out of the mix. The race was wide open. Within weeks, Vice President He became the party establishment's pick However, Bobby had been here before. He dusted off the strategy book that had taken his brother He would prove his support He had got a tough contest with McCarthy, and he had got a tough contest Bobby Kennedy had to do incredibly well It was a question of whether Bobby Kennedy that he was a good candidate. Bobby was kicking off his campaign when news broke from Memphis. I have some very sad news for all of you, and that is that Martin Luther King in Memphis, Tennessee. In the black community in Indianapolis, Bobby Kennedy and the most effective speech in black America. He said, &quot;People need to love each other.&quot; &quot;If we really want &quot;we shouldn't hate.&quot; &quot;We should love.&quot; What we need in the United States but love, wisdom, a feeling of justice toward those who still suffer whether they be white or black. On a night when there were riots one of the only cities in America with a sizable black population The reason was Robert Francis Kennedy. If we dedicate ourselves &quot;To tame the savageness of man Let's dedicate ourselves to that and say a prayer for our country Thank you very much. Bobby won in Indiana. A week later, he triumphed in Nebraska. His campaign was gaining momentum. Defeat in Oregon, however, June 4th would see two key primaries, one in South Dakota Losing either would destroy Bobby's hopes, but victory could put him The all-important primary was California. It was all important because it was It had the most diverse population. California is a huge state He needed to win there, and he needed to win convincingly California seemed forbidding territory. McCarthy had a well-established Bobby's chances looked slim. He went into California He campaigned in the ghettos, and he was able to generate around his campaign. What Joe McCarthy didn't do was encompass the whole of Vietnam and all of that. People talked a lot and his appeal. It's different than his brother's. His brother was cool and reserved. For Bobby Kennedy, people wanted to touch him, There were kids running after his car, Someone grabbed his shoe at one point Kennedy's campaign was on the ground Bobby triumphed. In South Dakota, he scored a clear win. In California, it was closer, What mattered was the victory. Suddenly, I thank all of you. Now, it's on to Chicago, Bobby left his supporters celebrating of the Los Angeles Ambassador Hotel. Hurrying to a press conference, It was there he crossed paths Sirhan Sirhan. Sirhan Sirhan popped out shot him twice in the back, and left him on the floor. The assailant and Bobby Kennedy was still alive, He was taken to the hospital, The reason he was gunned down, Sirhan Sirhan said in a note was because of Bobby Kennedy's support The speculation is that it had something which had been the previous year, At the most promising moment in his life, he was gunned down. It was Hubert Humphrey for the Democrats. It would be another close-fought campaign, but this time, That election in 1968 was arguably one of the last century. There was this extraordinary schism and Richard Nixon got a lot of people, who were very angry to rally around him. The cities started to erupt America wanted a law and order man. The Nixon years came to be associated The Watergate scandal. The resignation of a president. Unprecedented resignation. It was a dark time and it's easy to look back What might have been? What if Bobby had not taken the shortcut What if a bodyguard had been with him? What if Bobby had lived? The famous, powerful mayor maybe the most powerful was going to get behind Bobby. I think it would have created and it would have overwhelmed who I think was already beaten. It would have overwhelmed Hubert Humphrey. Would he have been able Would he have been able to get concerned about chaos at home, and concerned Would Bobby Kennedy have been able that would have mobilized When we think back to the fact of beating Richard Nixon, on the day after the election a president elect You would have had We probably got an earlier end and we got someone who cared about poverty Just his transparency alone would have changed He would've not just been a very different to heal the wounds in America He would have been a better president His brother's assassination and that your job Do something good He would have been a great president. The aim is that he articulated optimism, unity, and reconciliation. Those are themes that endure. It is a vision of America It is hope untarnished It is a path forever in sight,