Good morning everyone, I'm Fabrizio Galla. We're in our pastry shop, in San Sebastiano da Po I started this job in 1987, in the first pastry school in Italia, which was Arte Bianca in Turin. Once I completed my studies, I took part in the Coupe du Monde de la Patisserie in Lyon in 2007. We won the award for Best Cake in the world with the Jessica cake, In our pastry shop, you can find anything from breakfast to classic pastry, ice cream to chocolate, to sugar candies. We're now opening the doors to our laboratory, where Federica will show you our colomba with pears and chocolate. Hi everyone, my name is Federica Russo and I am the laboratory manager of the Fabrizio Galla pastry shop, and today I'm showing you how we make our colomba. We'll add chocolate and candied pears inside. the dough for colomba, we need to perform a very important action, meaning the refreshment of the starter, which is the fundamental ingredient. We're cutting our yeast in slices and take an equal amount of weight in flour 400 grams and 400 grams, the water will be 200 grams instead. It's always best to have water at room temperature. We're now moving on to the stand mixer, where we're going to knead our yeast. We're adding the starter and flour in. We're starting on first speed. We're pouring the water slowly, keeping around two fingers on one side. We're kneading time, which is 7 minutes, to check if our yeast will need it or not. Our yeast is done. We're now back on the table and we're working it slightly so as to give it a smooth We're then cutting a cross on top. We're cutting it well. The cross cut is needed to allow the yeast to rise container and moving it a 28degC with a percentage of humidity of 75%. The yeast will rise for about 4 hours. This procedure will need to be done two other times before we can proceed with the first dough for our colomba. Now that we have our starter ready, we can move on to the preparation of the first dough We're adding in our twin-arm mixer Infundo fine sugar, panettone flour, butter and water. Butter must always be soft, at room temperature. Once we added all of the ingredients, we can start the machine at first speed for 30-40 seconds. We're using fine sugar Infundo, controlled granulometry, we can standardize all of the production processes the same at any moment of the year and at any production stage. Now that 30-40 seconds passed, we're increasing the speed to two and allow it to knead for 5 minutes. After 5 minutes, we can add the starter. Let's start on the second speed 20 minutes. We'll always need to check that our dough creates the gluten net. The starter is the key product leavened product. between 4.1 and 4.15. Our dough is done. Something really important is for the dough to come out smooth, but not shiny. We're adding the yolk in one single go and starting the twin-arm mixer for about 30-40 seconds. We can now move on to the second speed for about 2-3 minutes. Our dough is done, we can take it out and move it inside the bucket. Using this movement, a round shape, so that during the rising it can reach a uniform level. Our dough will rise for about 10 hours at a temperature of 28degC and with a percentage of humidity of 75%. Here is our first dough, done. We're moving it We're adding the flour. The flour we added is panettone gluten level. We're also adding the aromas. In here, we have Tahiti vanilla, lemon and orange aroma. They give an additional flavor to our colomba. Once we add these ingredients, we can start the machine on the first speed for about 30-40 seconds, the kneading times change two factors: the machine you have and also the quantity of dough. After thirty seconds, We'll allow it to knead for about to be added with the first ingredients: fine sugar, acacia honey and finally a quarter of egg yolk. I suggest to keep the egg yolk at fridge temperature, so it doesn't heat our dough up further. It is fundamental to let the gluten net adding ingredients that would tear the dough apart. We're now adding salt and another quarter of egg yolk. We're starting the machine again for 30-40 seconds and then move to the second speed again We're adding the soft butter and the last part of the yolk. We're now adding water at room temperature. We're allowing the water to absorb well. We're making sure that the gluten net formed again and we can then move on with the addition We added Williams variety pears, candied and cut into cubes a 55% dark chocolate so that it's not so strong and it doesn't entirely cover the taste of colomba and pears. We're allowing it to mix until the fruit is almost completely incorporated in the dough, then we'll switch to the second speed for 2-3 minutes. Our dough is finally ready. We're checking the formation of the gluten net. Our dough doesn't break. We're now moving it inside the bucket, and we're then moving on to We're moving our dough onto the table, cutting it in pieces of about one kg and placing them With the help of a spatula, we're proceeding with the first shaping, starting to The first shaping doesn't need to be perfect, We can move our colombe inside the leavening cell at a temperature of 28degC and a percentage of humidity of 75%. After one hour, we can shape our colombe. We're keeping the dough at room temperature the upper part dries. We're cutting it in half and first elongating it to create We need to try and avoid tearing the upper part, that is the one that will give uniformity to the colomba while baking. Let's take the second part of the dough and elongate it to create We're doing the same We shaped the colombe. to the leavening rooms for eight hours. The temperature will still be 28degC and a humidity percentage of 75%. They'll need to reach We prepared the ingredients for the amaretto glaze that will then decorate our colombe before we start baking. In the mixer, we added wheat flour, corn flour and Infundo impalpable sugar. Sugar has a key action in this almonds from releasing oil. this should be our consistency. We're now adding fresh albumen inside. Let's start our mixer at the maximum speed. There is no precise quantity final consistency, that shouldn't be too thick nor too thin. This is the consistency our glaze Colombe are ready, we can now bake them. We'll have to glaze With the help of a spatula, our glaze both on the body and on the wings of our colomba. The quantity shouldn't be excessive. We're making three versions of colomba: the classic one with candied orange, a more gluttony one with pears new one with dark chocolate 70% and Tahiti vanilla. We're adding cocoa grue on top. Cocoa grue is nothing other than coarsely chopped cocoa beans. Infundo nib sugar. Nib sugar, apart from an aesthetic function, doesn't absorb humidity, so it also makes the surface crunchy. We can now bake them. We're putting them in the oven for about 50 minutes. The cooking Our colombe are basically almost baked, there's just three minutes left, so we're opening the valve that we'll need to let the We're piercing them to see if it comes out clean. Fabrizio will be my assistant today, and he'll help me turning They'll need to stay upside down for one night at room temperature. After one night spent upside down, we can cut our colomba and see how it is inside. The air pockets are perfect, homogeneously distributed and the aroma is wonderful. We showed you how we make our colomba with pears waiting for you to come or on our online shop to buy it. Warm greetings to all friends of Italia Squisita, see you next time!