Today I will show you everything you need Quick and Easy. Hi my name is Markus and hello together here I will show you the design and the different We look at how induction motors work, how and without an inverter. and disadvantages of the different induction So let's get started. Induction motors are often also called asynchronous Asynchronous motors or induction motors belong Compared to synchronous motors, asynchronous But I will show you why it is better to use Induction motors can be divided into two different squirrel cage rotor, which is used in more The squirrel-cage rotor consists of a cage The bars are short-circuited at the upper To reduce torque oscillations from the rotor, This also has the advantage that the rotor The stator, like the rotor, consists of several each other by a very thin insulation layer. them from each other to reduce the losses You can differentiate between single-phase For household devices, such as washing machines motors are used. thress-phase electric motors are used. In three-phase electric motors, the stator symmetrically displaced from each other. or a delta. usually has three phase connections, which The second type of induction motor is the cage, the rotor has windings. three slip rings on which brushes grind. The brushes make a contact with variable resistors, The current in the rotor can be adjusted via be controlled. Do you need an inverter or power electronics It depends on the application and the place For the operation in a production machine inverter. operated with an inverter. you can increase the efficiency and the torque. In the household, single-phase induction motors machines without an inverter. an electric vehicle, you will definitely need The inverter in the vehicle converts the DC AC current for the electric motor. Induction motors belong to the group of AC or a three-phase current. from the power outlet or convert it into a When the three-phase AC voltage is connected in the windings, which results in a rotating At first we stop only the rotation of the or copper into the magnetic field. is still zero. rotate but we still hold the rotor. in the bars. to each other at the lower and upper ends, in the bars. a magnetic field in the rotor, which tries This produces a torque in the direction of If the rotor is now let go, the torque accelerates So the rotor tries to reach the speed of the But why? the stator, no voltage is induced in the bars Therefore, no current flows in the bars that The rotor must therefore always have a lower motor generates a torque. is called SLIP speed. As we have seen, we can generate torque from electronic. or as a generator. always rotates faster than the rotor. to the magnetic field of the stator. Let's take a look now at the characteristics First of all in an operation without an additional This means that the rotational frequency of range. which country you are from. The maximum speed of the induction motor is is used. of the squirrel cage with round bars, that To increase the torque in the lower speed used. of round bars. in the lower speed range and therefore also Another way to increase the torque in the rotor. changed by external variable resistors. increased externally and by that increasing The best way to use the full potential of By using an inverter, the rotational frequency This allows a constant torque to be achieved The inverter takes the 50Hz or 60Hz from the output frequency depending on the motor speed. can find a direct comparison of all the characteristic Now let's take a look at the advantages and ring rotor and squirrel cage rotor with and The main advantage of an induction motor with speed range and the lower starting current. and also the production of the rotor with Therefore, today the slip ring rotor is only an inverter would be too expensive. The main advantage of a squirrel cage induction rotor compared to a permanent magnet synchronous Only reluctance motors are cheaper, you can The induction motor is very robust against about demagnetization of magnets, like with The main disadvantage is the low starting use an inverter. With an inverter, the induction motor can at high speeds. because you do not have to worry about demagnetization The continuous power can be a problem if the properly. I hope you enjoyed the video, share it, like If you have any more questions about an induction I will answer your questions and help you Thank you for watching and I wish you all