Claudia: The queen of afternoon tea served with scones and strawberry jam, clotted cream is sometimes for its thick, rich texture. While it contains some butterfat clotted cream isn't Instead, its butterfat following a precise, lengthy has been passed down over generations. We're in Ruan Minor, Cornwall, and today we're going to find out how clotted cream is made. I can't wait to taste it. Let's go see how it's made. Just by looking at it, it has the consistency of ice cream. It looks a bit like ice cream. Claire: It does. Claudia: The texture of butter. Claire: Yeah, it does, yeah. And the taste of cream. Claire: Cream, yeah. Claire: Yes, yeah. Claudia: So, it's really Claire: And all come from milk. Very clever product, milk. Claudia: Yeah. Claudia: And how did that clever milk turn into such a product? Well, clotted cream starts with fresh milk that is pasteurized at 63 This temperature is ideal to without burning it. It is then cooled down to to force the milk to The next step is to pour which skims the cream from the milk. So, how much milk are you Claire: This is probably 35 It's usually 1 liter of Claudia: Oh, all right. That's really small. Claudia: But you still want Claire: Yeah, it is the cream of the crop, if you know what I mean. Literally. Claire: The best part of it. It's not easy to get it right. Claudia: Yeah, why is that? Claire: Well, I think When you process the milk as well, to make sure you actually at the right temperature, the My uncle used to sell his own cream, and he taught me that if the that's the right consistency. If it falls off, it's Claudia: It's not good, because it means there's still a little Claire: That's right, yeah. Claudia: You don't want any of that. Claire: You'll be working Claudia: This is your test. Oh, it looks like nail polish. Claire: That's good. Claudia: The separation is done twice to get the richest cream possible. Once the separator is off, Claire takes it apart to Here you can see a series of disks. When the machine is on, they spin and push the skimmed while the cream, which is Claire: As each particle these spin at such a that all the cream -- Claire: Yeah, there's loads. See, they all are separated, We obviously take the milk but there's a lot of in here. Claudia: Oh! Claire: It's probably [both laugh] It's like a moisturizer. Claudia: The fresh cream is By skimming the milk twice, To become clotted cream, it will need to be left to set During this time, the rises to the surface, creating clots. Claire: Which will make it clotted cream. Claudia: Oh, I see. So that's why it's called clotted cream. Claire: You cook the clots, and the cream underneath should be runny compared to the top, so Claudia: Oh, I see. So and it is a very lengthy process. Claire: It is, yes, definitely. It's well worth waiting for. Claudia: Look nice and bubbly. Claire: They do, yeah. Claudia: After spending the pots are ready to be cooked. Claire tells me she's found and baking time to be 85 degrees Celsius for one hour and 30 minutes. This allows her to give without overcooking it. Ooh. Claire: What you want Claudia: Yeah, it has a crust. Claire: You see it cracking there? And then it's just about right Make sure you have the crust on top. This is a good consistency the underneath isn't too runny. It won't run off your scone. Claudia: Yeah. Claire: Teeth will sink right into it. OK. It's my turn now. I'm not going to get a Claire: Keep the crust. Cheers. Cheers. Mm. That was ... felt it. Yeah, you do feel it. You definitely need a scone to go with it. Yeah, you're not supposed You're not really meant Unfortunately, Claire had to run to bottle the rest of the so I sat down with Margaret, the owner of the farm, the most traditional way possible, in an afternoon tea, or cream tea, as it's called here in Cornwall. The clotted cream is and scones that Margaret herself made with some leftover buttermilk. While spreading cream may look like the most natural thing, the order in which you do of one of the biggest Which way should I start? Because I know here on how to approach this, if I put one thing before the other. Have your scone. And then, in Cornwall, you always put some jam on it first. OK, so first the jam. All right. Yes. Claudia: Why would you put the Margaret: Well, it's what but I think if you put the jam in, then you put as much cream It is nice. Have a nice big one. Claudia: That's enough, Margaret: Yes, at least that much. Claudia: At least! Oh, gosh. Margaret: Yeah. Claudia: It's quite a lot, huh? Very good, this cream. Margaret: Nice. Oh, I can see why you put this for last, because it's really what When you have it, and you just have it on the top of your lips. Very, very good. I like the scones as Yeah, I really like them. Nice and soft and crumbly in the core. Margaret: Good. Everything together is so nice. Yeah. It's true. Margaret: Jam and cream. Yeah, because the jam is first and the cream goes last.