What did you say Say it again sorry You just don't speak I'll let go Go down You think Am I a vase in military uniform? You sacrificed Chief sorry Chief, please show us your special pass Special Pass yes It's an order from the superior Anyone who enters a prisoner-of-war camp Special pass required Instructor Look Here comes another one to see the Western scenery Our Sharpshooter Company 4 Now he's famous. Prisoner of War Camp It's become a zoo. I can sell tickets right away. A ticket costs 50 cents I'll just look outside Heard The Sharpshooter Company 4 was arrested. yes Many officials came to see It's rare to see The Sharpshooter Company 4 was finally defeated that I'll just look outside the cordon. guide That's not right What's wrong See for yourself Chief You are sweating all over, do you have a fever? Didn't I just come out of the clinic? Thank you, monitor. Monitor Little Comrade Don't you want to be a monitor in the future? You want to kill him I tell you Your company commander and I are classmates. You are serious I remember you Thank you, Chief Monitor Remember Me Yes, I can't forget Iron Fist Sharpshooter Company 4 The bravest wins when two meet on a narrow road Do you have any other insights? No Please remember this for me In the history of our Sharpshooter Company 4 Never been defeated Give me an armband as a souvenir. Can Honor should belong to the victor To the victor goes the honor What should you do? roll Instructor He seems to have a fever It means there is still fighting power. Can he do it alone? Because he's a warrior The war has just begun Password Hirakawa Reply Reply Monitor You are dead What is a Reply? plateau Thanks Password plateau come over Monitor, you're dead. Give me the gun You are the Red Army soldier with an umbrella who fainted last night Please follow the exercise rules Take off equipment You are very ill The Sharpshooter Company 4 has no history of defeat I admire you To the victor goes the honor Young man Good job Someone come Someone come What's going on? Someone come Someone come This is really a loophole. sorry I didn't arrange a guard. The responsibility is not yours I took it lightly. Where will he go? Definitely in Blue Army Headquarters Dig deep to find him yes This kid The more you ask, the more I admire you. Tang Gong Tang Gong Are you okay? Can't die Mr. Tang, where are you going? Who did he think he was dealing with? But according to the rules of the exercise, you are already dead. I can't control so much Female sniper Where A female sniper. Where did this woman come from? Special Operations Brigade Never heard of it Lactobacillus took off her clothes She's going to kill him. This is a style issue. What are you thinking about when you're fighting? What he said Send out all the snipers. He must be around. chief of staff I want to join the battle It seems like that. Aren't you an engineer? I've been in combat I figured it out. This big agency is really full of hidden dragons and crouching tigers Even engineers don't just eat for free. You've quit the fight. You died according to the rules. But I can't let him go so easily. Girl I'll call you a girl for now. This isn't a boyfriend-girlfriend fight. This is war Who is fighting with his boyfriend or girlfriend? I'm going to kill him myself. I'm going to kill him myself. chief of staff I'm not a vase in military uniform OK, OK, OK Even if you are not a vase in military uniform If you want to kill him, you have to find him. Hundreds of people were looking for him everywhere. Haven't found it yet. You just need to find him Did you kill him or cut him? what ever I don't care You go find him. Number Five Fifteen hours. Still no news from him Will it yes It's raining outside now Temperature drops He must be having a hard time. Besides He is shaking himself He can hold on Why do you trust him so much? Don't believe him I tell myself He can hold on I'm lying to myself Good sir arrive Can't wait any longer There is always a hidden danger when there is no news about this kid Escort the No.1 leader to transfer I can't take any more risks. So can he survive? All I can say is I hope he's still alive child Where are you? careful Protect the leader He sniped the Blue Army commander Where is he? Above the chimney How do you know? Didn't you hear where the gun was fired? Won What kind of anti-decapitation tactics are you using? Number Five You're collaborating with the enemy. Why don't you report me? Because I also want to collaborate with the enemy His life More important than the exercise itself None of us can bear to lose him again. He keeps going like this. Really close to death Just know it Don't speak too bluntly Now I know he's on the chimney Send someone to pick him up. Miaolang arrive Save people yes All Follow me This kid doesn't appreciate it. This bunny chief of staff you What should we do? We're already hung up Don't ask us Don't talk to the dead. I'm in charge now Sniper Control the chimney at the highest point Kill him chief of staff Who Not our people I underestimated this girl. Big pervert I will definitely kill you Don't play dead. Wake up Wake up Chief Chief Chief Change clothes Chief Why? You can't crow I want to see it today How good are you at fighting? There's no need for that. There is this necessity I don't fight with women. It was a drill, so there was no way. It was a drill, so there was no way. I'm sorry, okay? He Chenguang Don't think you're the only one who hasn't lost. I haven't lost either. I don't accept your apology. I challenge you Chief That's enough. sorry I'm leaving first Chief You are so rude. You took off my clothes And be polite to me I'll let you know today What is politeness? Chief These are all killing moves, not fighting moves. Not very good Sir, let me say it again. Sir, let me say it again. The situation was urgent Exercises are war. I have no choice. Stop talking nonsense to me Tick to me about war When I fight You don't even know where to wipe your nose? Chief Let's put it one code at a time Not angry Four-eyed dragon The show begins Number Five yes I see Tulip has found its exact location Let's go in Stop overthinking. Don't worry. We are your strong support The exact location has been reached Tulip succeeded. Report Are we calling in directly? No Go in quietly We don't know how many of them there are yet. How many weapons are there? Hidden and low-key Each of them It has special significance for public security investigation work Remember Keep someone alive They want our lives. We have to keep them alive. You summed it up correctly. What is this rule of action? This is a death order from the superior. Either execute the command Either I enforce battlefield discipline Attention everyone Now we have reached point B201 Ten kilometers to the target The remaining ten kilometers We have to move stealthily through the jungle. Now divide into two groups Group A is led by me Group B is led by Chen Shanming and Miao Lang Arrive at the designated area Hidden Standby No orders from me No movement allowed Are they all clear? clear Group A, follow me Group B walk Head, someone is coming Old tricks Split into two groups Deep penetration Not tasty enough Attention all units A distinguished guest Ready to receive guests complete Ring Defense The innermost is the sniper team Professional It seems that they really have some retired special forces veterans. Why is there no news about the fifth? Is there something wrong? Messing around Number 5 is a veteran Those who drown are all good at swimming. Snow Leopard Calling Golden Eagle Please reply if received What's going on? No movement They may not be able to respond by radio Wait a minute yes There is a situation Four-eyed dragon Golden Eagle I remember all of them. It's a respectable name. Golden Eagle I've always liked you We can be best brothers But this is business You are a lunatic How do you want to play? I followed SF No more playing Do you know what the greatest benefit of pain is? Because you're all still alive. Still alive They killed number five. team leader They killed people without even asking questions. Let's go, what are we waiting for? Give me silence We still have five comrades in their hands. I can kill him. Their people will kill our people too. Is this how we are? Continue to watch them being killed one by one? Calm Tulips are also in their hands She hasn't been exposed yet She will definitely find a way Working with us We still have a chance Listen The situation is urgent now Don't mess around. All actions are under command Our people fell into enemy hands Don't act rashly. Miao Lang is right We still have a chance Group Action Flanking Miaolang arrive With two cows Song Kaifei, Xu Tianlong You two follow me. He Chenguang, Wang Yanbing arrive You are a sniper team. Listen to my orders Kill dangerous enemies Cover us and save people yes clear Set off yes Let's sort the goals List the order of sniper kills by threat level etc. There is new situation I could have killed you earlier. But I didn't Because I like you You are a beast Livestock not enough I like you to call me mean. Shameless ungrateful Rubbish It's a corpse, a rotting corpse. This is the taste Hang it up You beast I will definitely kill you I will definitely kill you What are you going to do? You can only kill one octopus with one shot like this. Be calm now Otherwise, we're all finished. We can only wait now Monitor Monitor We were ambushed Team Leader pilot What's going on? Take a look below Number Five chief of staff chief of staff You let us go completion All finished Not yet finished And us Just the two of us How to turn things around Let's go down and separate. Approach them Meet at that highest point But our people are in their hands. They are all our comrades Even if I can't save her Let's die together Meeting on a narrow road The brave wins Still laughing Make you laugh Where am I You are in my hand Who are you Don't care who I am. Tell me, what's your name? I can't tell you anything I know who you are I know what you do I know everything about you I just want to Give you a chance to suffer less Tell me, what is your name? How about it Now you can tell me What's your name? Animals won't let themselves starve to death. Is it right Eat it eat Eating from the bowl and thinking about the pot You want this too, right? All for you So weak Don't move I like you beat Until vomiting grandson I have the guts to fight alone with you What's the point of gang beating me up? Who fights you alone? Call me What's your name? Your uncle Tell me, what's your name? I call you uncle I'm warning you one last time. What's your name? Messing around Even if you ask me a thousand times, it will be the same It's your uncle Call me Look who is in front of you Xinyi Xinyi You love her Is it right Because you love her This is your weakness I'll give you one last chance. You know what's going to happen I'll give you ten seconds to think about it. ten Nine eight seven six five Four three Hands-on No stop Stop it! don't want stop stop don't want stop I said I said I said Please Please let her go. I beg you Let her go tell me May I have your name Let me go I want to hold her Tell me what's your name? Please I want to hold her Tell me what's your name? Let me go, I want to hold her I want to hold her Let go of this garbage sorry I'm really sorry Don't Say Sorry He Chenguang I'm sorry I'm really sorry I love you I'm sorry sorry Quick, stop him. Director Tang police car Into the mountains again Yes I want to go into the city to see what's going on. There is something exciting to watch It can't be true. Do you think it's fake? Tell them whether it's true or not What's fake can't be real, I can't stand it What is true and false, true and false I really don't understand what you guys are thinking. execution ground All have, look to the right All have, look to the right Looking forward Turn right Marching Both brothers are here First Class Alert The two of us Who dares not to be there? Isn't it just one execution? This is not simple Foreign drug lord The mainland was caught It is said that his family He spent a lot of money to rob our execution ground. On the land of the People's Republic of China And this bullshit That's what the intelligence says The superior attaches great importance to You're here just in time A look from the special forces perspective Our deployment what else Areas that need adjustment Take a look Good Guy This posture The real special forces are here. He is also intimidated. I hope so. We still dare not take it lightly Intelligence department speaks On the Jianghu There have indeed been rumors of this They are collecting information Hope everything is OK I see Not very willing Sooner or later you have to take this step OK I won't disturb your work. I'm watching from the side Please call me if you need anything well See? This cordon is within Yihui is the place where executions are carried out Where you stand You will see clearly Bullet hit The back of the head of a death row inmate You are all soldiers. Get used to dealing with weapons What is the real meaning of weapons? Weapons are often associated with death Closely linked Sniper Not target shooting It's a beating I'll make two requests. Open your eyes wide and don't close them These two No sound allowed No shouting Let me watch quietly Do you understand? clear He Chenguang What are you looking at? Reflective What is reflective Sniper rifle scope reflection Maybe the armed police deployed snipers there. but I am very puzzled Why deploy it there? That's the best attack position. Not the best defensive position Are you sure Sure Mr. Gao, Mr. Wen Is that the person you arranged? We are responsible for internal security Mr. Gao Is he your person? no Found it Right there Search now Yes, second team, let me go. SWAT superior quick Commander, give me a gun, I will go too. It's a real war Maybe someone robbed the court. Execution No way, a real blockbuster film in broad daylight Sir, give us guns. We are here to observe This is none of our business, quiet Morning Light Are you sure there's a sniper up there? That's a favorable high point. It's also a great sniping spot. If it were me, I would grab it right away. Help me keep an eye on the surroundings. I'll do some fire reconnaissance. Obviously Hit Morning Light You are so amazing Don't be happy too early Keep looking for their observers. Discovery Twelve o'clock Chimney break, platform He is there Target Elimination Morning Light Can we go in now? To enter the factory Must pass through the open area ahead Enter rashly You will definitely be attacked by other sniper teams. Well, then what should we do? wait Who drove our car away? Why are you so nervous? This is the first time I ride in such a powerful car Have a good experience Tasteful German tanks I like Sit tight go ahead Grenade Put the gun down stand up game over Get up, get up Separate Bear You made me wake up Yes You're not afraid of him Grab the gun Monitor You died The People's Liberation Army treated prisoners well Morning Light what to do Didn't you say that prisoners should be treated well? Look at their hands Can enter red blood cell selection None of them are good people. They are all famous for being quick to grab Give them a chance. We are the unlucky ones. Remember a famous saying of He To be kind to your enemies is to be cruel to yourself Take away their weapons and ammunition Water and dry food good Leave us some Is it useful for the dead? But we are the living dead Leave a bite My sniper Sorry, monitor, I'll borrow it for a minute. Arrange the position This is the only way to enter the factory Also a good sniping location We waited until ten o'clock in the morning If no one is there, move to the southwest swamp. If someone is hanging around here This is facing west Before ten o'clock, it is sunny. After daybreak, our reflection will no longer be visible on the other side. But we can see Reflection from the opposite optical instrument Oh my god I've learned a lot from you. to be honest I don't worry too much about others. The person we should really be wary of is Wang Yanbing We all know each other too well. So, where is he now? The problem is that I haven't thought of it yet So we have to wait for him here. Then you say Does he know we're here? I don't know yet He will soon think of I deliberately set up a sniper position here I believe he will come to us. So that's it This is a dead place. Survive in the face of death We're not waiting for him here. Within ten kilometers We can't find him at all You take a rest first I'll call you in three hours. What about you? Let's take turns to rest I can't rest I can't rest without Wang Yanbing coming no Seven to two, we still have seven people to deal with. In my eyes there is only one real threat. Wang Yanbing He wanted to win me so badly. There was no chance before This is the opportunity he has been waiting for a year. A year has 365 days. My dear mother Why did you shoot? They are in there. You almost broke my neck. How about you never played it? Come again Fucking again Finished, missed. Exposed, move position Song Kaifei is a top-class pilot He didn't just say it. Move to the next sniper position, go Can't mess around anymore I'm about to vomit You have four eyes. Didn't you see they just shot at us? He's pumping the gas tank. But the pilot You really run faster than a bullet. Who am I? Let the bullets fly for a while alright We now have two options First I'm going to launch a rocket The entire factory area below was razed to the ground second Let's go in and find them. How to choose You must have chosen this one. Of course. I completed the task easily and went home to sleep. I agree, I agree Morning Light Sorry, Chen Guang I thought I could beat it. You must follow my orders from now on There are sniper positions everywhere, so it's okay. So, will they come in? Because we won't go out. Once discovered outside We are on a dead end. We can still defend the factory area. When the enemy outnumbers us Street fighting is the best way to fight If there is no concealment, we create it. I listen to you. That's your sniper position. Why, we have to separate I will be on the right Forming a cross sniper vision with you The entire factory is within sniper range They want to come in You have to pass under our guns. no I'm a little nervous It's okay, Brother Niu remember You are a wolf Follow my radio commands, understand? middle Red one, red one, is there anything going on? Over There is nothing unusual right now. Red Two, Over Sorry, Red I was too sleepy yesterday I have been sleeping till now. It's ok, Red Two Now is not the time to summarize Stay awake and ready to fight They will definitely come at this time, over Received, completed Miss Missy Wake up It's dawn We have to go No matter where to go, I'm lost. Never mind, let's go first. What the hell is going on? Red one, red one They are releasing smoke bombs I can't capture the target, over Red Two, pay attention to the number of people on the bus, over. receive complete Hongyi, there is one less person on the bus, over That must be Wang Yanbing. He came in. Be careful not to expose your target. Received, completed Hong Er, have you found the target? Over. not yet complete He must have come in. Be careful. Be ready to move at any time. Over. receive complete Blue Five, Blue Five We are out of range of our prey. Are you ready? Over Lan San, I'm ready, over. Blue Five, Blue Five The first team is ready to enter I hope our sacrifice was not in vain. Over Blue three, blue five received, over. Enter If this is a real war This is like sending yourself to die. War is a great challenge for junior officers and soldiers. Like a giant meat grinder Oh my god Pretending to be more cultured than me What is cultured and what is not cultured This is what former Soviet Marshal Zhukov said Red one red one Red 2 captures target, request to shoot complete Red Two, Don't Shoot This is bait, over. Hongyi, my shooting angle is very good Ranci requested to shoot, over Red Two, move position immediately after shooting, over. Received, completed Blue Three, Blue Five, there is a sniper position at nine o'clock There is a sniper position at the 9 o'clock position on Blue 5 Clear the area immediately, over Red 2 is moving to the next sniper point, over. I go Pilot, you take him in. He walked in Just to die Must drive OK Red One Red Red 2 arrives at the designated location, complete Red One received, over. Hongyi, their car is coming in again. Be careful, he's sending someone in, over Received, completed I cover Blue Five, Blue Nineteen are coming in, over Blue Five, read it. Be careful of the booby trap. Over. Got it, done. Red one red one Red Two is under fire Under fire, over Cross angle shooting Received, completed He Chenguang I caught you I am my own person You said you What's wrong There was gunfire Who fired the gun? Very far, it's a sniper rifle But at least I found someone. I won't get lost this time. We'll definitely find them by following the sound of the gunfire. Blue Five, how is it going? Over. Lan San, I have been discovered by him now complete Blue Five, do you need support? Over Don't come in yet. I can't determine his location yet. complete Make sure you're safe, over I am very safe now I'm in his blind spot now. But I can't move now If you move, they will find you. Over. What do we do now? Waiting for the right time The situation inside is unclear now. Once you figure out the situation Take action again, over Who is that? It's two girls. Female Soldiers Where did the female soldiers come from? have no idea But I'm definitely not one of us. I see keep Calm Don't move yet Wait for my order complete What is going on? Messing around This is just nonsense. What the hell is this place? How come it's like a ghost movie? Is there anyone in this place? They must be here Is anyone there? Is anyone there? We are a military game operator Can you take us back? Is anyone there? Is anyone there? We are a military game operator We are lost Can you take us out? Is anyone there? Where is the person? It's time to give them some extra spice. Nothing to do, why are you joining in the fun? Didn't I tell you that there is no one here? Let's get out of this place. There's no telling what the hell is going on in this damn place. Let's go Shut up The first one appeared He Chenguang I got you Don't run away The second one also appeared What is the first and second Blue Three Blue Three Sniper target confirmed Quick on-site cleaning complete Hongyi, don't run away. I've already found out. You're still not human. Why did I shout if there was anyone there just now? Why don't you come out? Please get out of our way. This exercise cannot be I don't care whether you are doing a drill or not. What are you doing, woman? Where are you from? What do you care where I came from? We stayed out all night last night I don't know what you guys think. Get out of the way Chief Lady, we are conducting an exercise. Let you beat a woman again You made a mistake. Wrong number again, you idiot Messing around You are not nearsighted How to pretend to be a cultured person without glasses Pack 54321, He Chenguang wins Messing around The pilot was so fair. You can enter the next level. Do you agree? If you return my glasses, I'll agree. make a deal three Lady Chief, we are really conducting an exercise stop He is my prey. He Chenguang He is my prey too. This is a man's war Please go away Who are you talking to? Two on One Tie this, tie this, come on Let me go Let me go, both of you let me go He Chenguang I won't let you go He Chenguang I won't let you go Yes, yes, yes, don't let him go. Don't let him go. Keep beating him I won't let you go. Sorry, sir. I said, this is a man's war I won't let you two go. Don't make noise brake brake brake Be smart, everyone. Enter the mission area immediately, Hide the boat, quickly Please note There are still 20 kilometers of mountain roads It's getting dark Be careful on the road and try not to leave any traces action Approaching the target The sniper teams occupied their respective sniper positions Wait for my order Simultaneous shooting Note to all groups Advance in secret action Landmines right Anti-personnel mine Already triggered I was too careless The soil around here has been camouflaged. Scorpion is indeed a master I underestimated him. I'm done Go away, I will stand here Wait until you come back successfully. nonsense This mine cannot be cleared If there is no other way, find a way Don't move I said what time is it? You should leave now. I told you not to move. Jumping mines are very sensitive Don't blow it up. Your leg is broken. My brain is gone. Snow Leopard, Snow Leopard The Falcon team encountered an emergency complete Snow Leopard received Falcon, please speak complete Flamingo stepped on a landmine Falcon is processing Buffalo team please be careful complete Snow Leopard received Falcon, do you need help? complete Don't come over here This is a jumping mine. If there is a problem, you can't run away Got it. You must be careful. Keep informed, finished Falcon understands, over What's wrong You stepped on a landmine too. Your mouth Open the light What you fear will come true Can't you say something nice? Be careful Vigilance Mother Who is this Scorpion? A true expert All newly buried I cut the Army Can you do it? Or you come Messing around Mother What are you going to do? There is no way I can defuse this mine. It has already started There is only one way now What can I do? Use the principles of mechanics to solve this mine Is it possible? You have to give it a try whether it works or not. Don't talk You have to cooperate with me Pull your feet out gently I smoked Tie that side tight Okay you You retreat to a safe distance I don't Stop it. We can't both die. Once the mine explodes, a fight will surely break out. Now we are outnumbered. Need manpower You should stop joining in the fun. flash Let's die together Back off quickly Did you hear that? Walk There is a situation But I can't see clearly, he is wearing a hat He is a military man. Walking without slouching His body shape shows it. Scorpion It's a scorpion Snow Leopard, Snow Leopard Flamingo Report Scorpion appears receive I saw Sniper Team 2 Report your situation Buffalo Report The target is obscured I can't see I can't lock onto the target complete To ensure that nothing goes wrong Both sniper teams must fire simultaneously complete Attention everyone Wait for another chance complete Falcon received complete Buffalo received complete what We only execute orders That's Saigon Rose She is following the predetermined code Mark your location Let's not hurt anyone by mistake They live together That's the scorpion's room. It looks like this We were betrayed Snow Leopard, Snow Wolf, Falcon Calling Have a problem Saigon Rose and Scorpion Live Together Saigon Rose and Scorpion live and work together I'll apply to the command immediately. Cancel Action Are you ready to evacuate? Be alert Be sure to pay attention Scorpion's Movement Beware of Snipers complete receive complete Command, Command Snow leopard calling, snow leopard calling I request to cancel the action The situation on site was beyond our expectations There are risks in action complete This is the command post. What are the hidden dangers of action? complete Saigon Rose and Scorpion Have a special relationship We think Possing an objective threat to red blood cells We already have this situation under control No threat to you The West Rose provides us with The most detailed personal information of Scorpio We think She is reliable complete Why didn't you tell us? This is very crucial information. We must make sure Reliability of Saigon Rose I've said She is reliable complete As a team leader We believe the danger has already occurred Recommended cancellation action I hope you can approve Snow Wolf Our police mobile forces are already in place Do you know how long we've been waiting? We are waiting for today Just for this situation we already knew You have to cancel the action. I agree that you cancel the action. I'll send someone to replace you. complete Old Gong I fought a scorpion. He's not that simple. I stick to my opinion. I will take responsibility if something goes wrong no Our mission this time Cooperating with the police Now that they have made their judgment We can only execute Attention everyone Be vigilant Prepare for battle Please repeat the command. Falcon Sniper mission continues Be alert, over. Falcon received complete Headquarters Snow Wolf agrees to continue the action But please be prepared for support Once an accident occurs We need to evacuate quickly complete Command received We will be prepared Just rest assured and carry out the mission complete clear End of call complete What's the point? What if we are exposed? They have something to hide We just have to continue Get ready There might be a melee. It doesn't matter I'm afraid it won't be lively. Big Brother Bro, you scared me to death I changed my job I know It's okay. You're fine. Big brother just came to see you Send you something This hat Been with me for many years. Born and died How do you like it As long as it's Big Brother's Everyone likes it I gave it to you. Thank you, bro Is he handsome? handsome besides Your conditions It's too hard This dress I brought it from abroad. Same as mine I gave it to you. Big Brother So good to me Try it on Big Brother Am I good looking? good handsome Yellow Hair Go out for a walk Go out for a walk Brothers will treat me as yours Yellow Hair You will be me one day You may even surpass me Brother, what do you mean? I can be the boss in the future Of course Go ahead I also go to the majestic Big Brother Bye-Bye Do you believe that scorpions have no feelings? It seems that Saigon Rose did not betray us They don't have any abnormalities now. The guards are also lax. If I were a scorpion I will feel That's an intuition. He's such an excellent sniper. I shouldn't have this intuition. I'm not like you I never believe in super-realistic things. I only believe what I see with my own eyes What you see may not be true If what you see is not real So what is real? Everything is fake Only intuition is real What if our intuition is wrong? Wrong intuition It's time to hang up It seems that Scorpio's intuition was wrong this time. He should hang up. I said, can you do it? If not, you can replace me I promise I'll shoot him in the head. Absolutely no future troubles Not that simple Scorpio can survive for so many years Breaking out from the hail of bullets He has his own way We have no other choice. He came out Listen to my command Prepare Buffalo locked on target, over Something is wrong What's wrong again? Ready to Shoot This person has a problem He is not a scorpion. I said, can you fight? Snow Wolf is about to issue an order You are the first sniper You have to hit your head This person's movements are completely different from the previous ones. This is a substitute Execute Command I can't care so much. Ready to Shoot Three, two, one, release It's a substitute Hit it right Why are there earrings? The target is fake We lost. Is it true or false? Where did you really go? Already ran We can't catch him. How to do this Attention everyone, attention everyone Quickly withdraw to the assembly point Be careful and concealed, over Let's go Comrade Chief Chinese Army Spike Special Operations Brigade Red Cell Special Operations Group Gathering completed Please review Fan Tianlei, Chief of Staff of the Langya Special Operations Brigade OK, let me see yes Hello, comrades. Hello, Chief Thank you for your hard work, comrades. Serving the people The mental state is good Little Ghost A bit fat Chief fat Sorry, Chief It's okay. It's okay. What subject are you preparing for today? Report Rescue the gangsters Really creative Deploy the People's Liberation Army To rescue the gangsters Yes, yes, sorry, sir. Okay, okay. Come It starts with you yes Bring me the second gun. yes Come Report Chief This gun is not mine. how On the battlefield, if it's not your gun, you can't shoot. Sorry, sir, I was wrong. Get started yes Please point the target, Chief 200m hostage moving target yes You actually succeeded in rescuing the gangsters. Get up Report, Chief This gun is not mine. This gun's trajectory is to the left. Whose gun is this? Report be mine You are the one who has gone through so much hardship To behead my sharpshooter He Chenguang, sniper of the fourth company Yes, Chief Your current rank suits you very well. Thank you, Chief Why does your gun's trajectory deviate to the left? Report It's a personal habit, sir. Come Explain in detail On the battlefield If I sacrifice I don't want this gun Can be used directly after being picked up by the enemy If the settings are correct There is a high probability that this danger will occur But you are a sniper. Using a gun that is not properly calibrated Can you complete the sniper mission? Report Chief This gun has been worn by me. Completely capable of sniper missions Try it yes S/ Morning Light sorry It's not your fault I have to get my red blood cell's face back. come on How did it happen? 200m hostage moving target Enemy spotted at 400 meters 700m helicopter pilot 1200m enemy tank length Start the tank Security, tanks moving Drive me to 60 mph Drive to 60 mph Chief Already 60 miles Fight good stand up I didn't misjudge you Triple Tap This is the real gun king. OK Red Cell Task Force Kind of interesting Although today I only watched his shooting performance But I've felt it You guys have super strong fighting power. Red blood cells Special Operations Team good Report He Chenguang Let him speak Report Comrade Chief The sniper is just a member of the Red Cell Action Team. A component We have prepared a presentation for you Not officially started yet Eligibility I hope you can check it yourself. This is to take my army Report I dare not You know Why did I say I can stop watching? Report I have no idea You join first. I am a soldier Almost forty years I have been a general for more than ten years. force How to deal with the inspection of the superior Am I not clear? I have never been to the Special Forces. I don't understand what's going on I still haven't read your report. Read the report Can't really understand the combat strength of a unit What does it depend on? Rely on random inspection This is just a temporary check. Only in this way can we examine the real combat effectiveness of the troops. Read the report How is it different from an open-book exam? Lieutenant, do you agree with me? Report to the Chief You are right. But I think you have something else to say. yes You speak Report Comrade Chief For your inspection We trained for a month. Comrades, there is no day or night Just to show you this presentation But your words Our Efforts At once You prepared for a month. Just for Give me a presentation Your military uniform Is it for me too? Your military uniform Your military uniform I don't wear it for myself. You train You suffer It's not for me. Report Comrade Chief I was wrong You are soldiers A soldier of the People's Republic of China A soldier of the Chinese People's Liberation Army You train Suffering Involvement It's not for the purpose of performing for me today. That's all fake, it doesn't mean anything Which unit I can't show off my two unique skills. not to mention You are among the hundreds of thousands of combat troops. The elite selected I don't want to see the things you prepared. What I want to see You're not prepared. Please tell me It's the report Or spot check It can better reflect the combat effectiveness of a unit. Training for War Not for viewing You are all my soldiers Do I still need you? A program was pre-arranged Show it to me, does that make sense? The answer is of course no. You are not a cultural troupe. Not a propaganda team, you are not actors You are warriors Your job is not to act. It's about fighting Are you all ready? Always be prepared, always be prepared Always Be Prepared very good Today I am in the Red Cell Special Operations Team Saw these Your training is effective. I believe in your fighting ability. Loyal to the motherland and the people salute Oh well This also saves time I'm going to inspect other troops now. You follow Daily training plan Continue training yes Be neither arrogant nor impatient Keep working on it This is a The General of the Republic's Entrustment to You Loyal to the motherland and the people