In today's chess video, I am going to show in the King's gambit, for both white &amp; black. this pawn, it's the accepted line, for which are aware of all the theory &amp; you're are can be a good way to proceed. But if you don't like to surprise your opponent, then declining we are going to focus on the declined variation discuss the 4 most popular responses by black. h4 check, white simply blocks with g3, pushing like knight f6, you can take this pawn &amp; continue are generally better for white so I wouldn't best strategies for black to decline the king's is, bishop to c5. This is what we call the this bishop to prevent white from castling. after Queen h4 check, if he blocks with g3, And in this position, if he moves his king and that's game over. This is what we call should not be playing as white. But what you Below this Video right now. Anyway, in this this square, so knight f3 seems the best move. because after d4, white gets what he wants. bishop so it has to move back &amp; eventually, setup for white in the king's gambit where is ahead in development &amp; he can prepare a Anyway, that was 'e' takes on f4, which plays knight c6 to defend this pawn. You might not exactly! We have a crazy line that can After knight takes, this h4 square is not King e2 would be a checkmate so he blocks with the queen. Queen takes rook, but now a discovered check &amp; ultimately, pick up the for white, so this is an interesting line &amp; look at the best move that black can play probably the move you will most often see. importantly, he opens up this diagonal for White can go with something like bishop c4 play knight c3 and continue with his development. is to play c3 with the idea to push d4 and in the king's gambit, especially after black blocks off this diagonal for the bishop &amp; that here, black can also start putting pressure the fight is on for the center. I am not getting possible moves from here, but the purpose this as black or white. As black, you can bishop along this diagonal. Try to castle can come out this way to attack the kingside. out. Even if you can manage to trade your good exchange. Both these bishops might probably these pawns. You can castle on the kingside an attack on the black king. Alright, so those plays bishop to C5. And that's a solid way player &amp; you want some adventure, then You is that? Well, after the King's gambit, d5 - This will make your opponent fall off gambit player would hate to see as white. merely a pawn advantage, then this d5 move how. Look, as white, I am expecting you to of his own pawns. Now white cannot attack This is exactly what you want - surprise your white has a decision to make - which pawn because of the same queen h4 check that we the d5 pawn, which is probably the best move - he can take this f4 pawn, which leaves both white and black have doubled pawns on is forced to play knight f3 to safeguard this pressure on the center. Taking with the queen push knight c3, attack the queen &amp; gain tempo. position is similar to the Modern Defense defense, black accepts the king's gambit, &amp; ultimately, we reach the same position. is that he has the option to choose which &amp; defend this pawn. Or he can bring out his castle. He can play d4 as well, open up the the option of developing the knight to c3. the game to proceed, he can expand in the the f4 pawn. For black, he has some interesting this central pawn &amp; eventually he should be can be a good outpost for the knight especially behind in development so castling &amp; getting These bishops will generally come out from pieces along the kingside. Basically, as black, moves &amp; you should have a good game. Alright, which black can proceed is not to take this The idea is to grab some space in the center prevent the knight from developing in its vulnerable to the queen check since the knight white, you need to get rid of this pawn as you exchange it. One of the lines could be you can simply play knight to c3 and develop f6, defending this pawn &amp; also attacking on and white can finally get his knight to f3. out the bishop to prevent white from castling white, your focus will now shift to this open has to defend, so bishop f5. Knight c3 adds And as you can see, this becomes a very complicated of winning this. Anyway, let me just quickly play, and that is c6, the Nimzowitsch counter here. Don't take this pawn, just simply a strong position, the king is in the line after the king, it's an ideal game for a although these are not that great for black, What about knight c6 defending this pawn? wants to see what you want to do. Well, nothing as usual &amp; continue with the same strategy black you might see is d6. Well, you can continue move could be d3 - consolidating the center is like your normal king's gambit setup so here's a tricky puzzle for you all. It the black king. Do share your answers in the to Like and Subscribe and check out this King's on your screen right now. Thanks for watching