[MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER: Welcome to of Chicago Divinity School. For more of our podcasts and of use, please Divinity.UChicago.edu/Podcasts. HANS JOAS: Good afternoon, I should perhaps, first My name is Hans Joas. I'm a German sociologist at the University of Chicago And I'm proud to say I've on Social Thought at than 10 years. It is my great to introduce to you Bellah, professor of sociology of California, Berkeley. Perhaps, the greatest of religion in the world. Yeah. ROBERT BELLAH: Thank you. HANS JOAS: This occasion for several reasons. One is that the opus has just been published. It's the book that has the Religion in Human Evolution. It's a very special occasion at this university in October and gave a talk on the A talk that was published Review in 1964. And became one of the most in the sociology of religion, for this book. Although, nobody the book is nothing but the I would like to at least one person attended the lecture in 1963, Maybe there are He's sitting here. Anybody else? No. So let me make-- So this was applause Now, let me make a few It will be a little because I also consider Robert Bellah was born But he grew up in Los Angeles. Went to Harvard College in years in the Army received in 1950. His honors thesis on was even published as a Press in 1952. It is item number one on the is still growing and growing. After that, Robert to pursue doctoral studies in languages. The ambitious aim of was to study Japan, a case In Viva's spirit, in influenced by Viva's of the world's religions. His dissertation, written of Talcott Parsons, came Its title is Tokugawa It's not only one of the most on Japan ever written, for the sophisticated work done Theory in the 1950s. I would not say like to mention that after that in Robert Bellah's because of a short time in which and even joined a He came under considerable to denounce his former of complying he left Harvard and University in Montreal, Canada. But now not at the Institute but at an Institute A step that led to a further of his bases for the comparative In 1961, he was allowed And in 1967, he accepted Some of the articles he like the very famous he doesn't like his own article. But the very famous in America and the in his introduction, &quot;Religious an influential The brilliance of became more and more visible. In my eyes, his book The Broken is a particularly Whereas, some and I quote, see this book mostly as against the of the American civil religion I see it as much more, namely attempt at analyzing and their internal tensions. While Parsons never profound analysis of but reused them to like norms and values. Robert Bellah, on, was much more sensitive and the dynamics of The theological writings of had come into contact at Harvard in this regard. Bellah thus, developed of an analysis of Whereby myths are not treated and richly textured structures On that basis, he with a group of co-authors of the Heart, published in 1985. He also gave a lecture here in this very room in 1985. And I was in the audience. This is an empirical study about in American life. I will not say much here, just perhaps defend that it was a politically I think, Bellah's call for rich traditions should as a reactionary of life of the distant The book articulates a which might guide a towards a more vigorous Movements which would, for in the ideals of the of the 1950s and '60s. Let me come to a conclusion. You're probably already Let me conclude by it to be a remarkable fact of the great they're not only sociologists but also theologians and As one could characterize sociologist, Shmuel of Max Weber and Martin Gruber. I would characterize Robert of Talcott Parsons When I mentioned this idea his response was that to have invented this formula. The first was the great But what for a combination of two unappealing A Cultural sociology has led to the master piece finally hear from ROBERT BELLAH: Well, but was very kind, very kind. And reminds me of in the past among other things. One of the reasons I don't is because so many the only thing I ever wrote. Is this microphone Can you hear me? OK. And then I see the University and that rings another bell at Harvard was one fourth time There had been a new of World Religions took me one quarter time. Being divided into when I finally gave that up, in the divinity faculty. All right. Let me finally begin. And for those of you who have is a fairly small you will get you things that you them together quite like this. Hans already referred on the let's say which of course of what Hans said of the study of symbols and And Cliff, very has left us just but he and I were lifelong That person that I was 48 years I remember that, Cliff who asked me to And after I had Cliff came up to the podium And he said, I loved your completely. I cannot quite forgive Cliff the new book and see what But over the years in between But his spirit hovers over And of course why Cliff said something a recent without explaining it-- there was a long particularly in the of thinking about as going from these barbaric no religion at all, to the wonderful, and that we have. And that kind of triumphalism in anthropology. And Cliff felt that, no I made, all religions It was still a dangerous notion. So here in Chicago to proclaim my of higher and lower religions. And I will call on as my witness, when he said that quote, &quot;the organisms that and probably ever shall of fuel, the dominant by any standard And bacteria, as far as I So I would start with Cliff's Just so you know what I mean a chance to look at the book. Religion and evolution are and a book with is going to have but with this audience Cliff wrote, &quot;Religion is when enacted by human powerful, pervasive, and motivations that of a general order &quot;A general order of existence.&quot; I had actually planned until Hans stole from me, with two comments-- one liners-- from two that, I think, you &quot;The most incomprehensible is that it is comprehensible.&quot; Albert Einstein. &quot;The more the universe the more it seems pointless.&quot; Steven Weinberg. Now, if even the have to worry about a whether it is comprehensible then Cliff's definition and includes a And to define religion as quote, and there have been on the evolution of take that point talking only about Judaism, or mainly about it-- it is true that followers and the monotheistic-- although and not in the Bible-- god is perhaps the majority Nonetheless, of the these three make up and it is very problematic by such a narrow view. Important though god is, is used in those three found anywhere else of which and others are quite proud. So it's not a criticism. To put religion in the largest I considered it in And began with means that I accept Darwinian of natural selection. And reject any is a more intelligent to warn you in advance But though I accept the idea I don't have to accept Darwin's In chapter 2 of The as the struggle for that actually came was Spencer's after long hesitation accepted. Namely, the survival although some biologists do in terms rather close to in classical economics really lay behind both of Today we have a more without rejecting, One of the things that struck was how many people referred of respect, but because And I've heard people for harping on Max we do because they Nonetheless, Martin Nowak, the for example, in his important and he's an absolutely evolutionary biologist, have to add a third thing in defining natural Because he proves with game theory, beyond but he makes a case outside variation and lead to the early collapse and thus, of life itself. Cooperation has to or we wouldn't be here. That doesn't mean we'll be for the moment we're here. Others have discovered under which selection the technical term is, relaxed. Allowing things to happen that alone would have suppressed. Things, especially, important What emerges when selection may turn out to be highly But in any case, they of selection pressure And that's what makes Let us now go back far and development-- that would much beings-- lead to religion. At least 200 million years gave birth to helpless could not survive maternal, care. These infants lack the capacity and without parental Sarah Hurty, an at the University of California, &quot;wherever parental marked a watershed perceived other individuals for the way vertebrate And then she points to of parental care among have these cognitive transformations,&quot; more evolutionary Mammal mother's fall in Lactating mothers date back around 220 million years ago. This is when babies began to be needed to be attuned to the perturbations in the conditions to be kept both warm and fed.&quot; The suite of capacities from the emergence are absolutely basic to this Basic to the development of even among species of religion among humans. So as the images religious traditions begins in the nurturing and child. I would like to turn to the during the [INAUDIBLE] to implications of parental care. Parental care he writes, with their offspring, We drew attention to the that care for their They all do it by means of which originate and by making use which activate this behavior.&quot; In short, what [INAUDIBLE] between mother and child is the And we can see cherishing and Even though many bright people argue that animals are automatons, and so would to say they know I'll leave that alone. We can see parental to kinship, that is continued based on birth relations relations is based on common But kinship was not the emerged among early mammals. Groups too large to be alone required something else. And the something else among social animals, was Very evident in monkeys, and relatives, the chimpanzees. Dominance hierarchies and perhaps a couple of of all other group members. And who try inevitably, to monopolize the to the females of the group. Dominance hierarchies why the attempt of the propagation at the expense of other males. And so provide an example at the individual level, that dominance hierarchies do. France Duvall, a writes, &quot;not surprisingly, are best developed in the The harmony demonstrated by a howling pack of wolves or of chimpanzees is predicated Wolves rely on each other at least the males who are by count on the other against hostile neighbors. The hierarchy regulates to the point of making a I'm really trying to make fundamental dispositions, because I think they are instinctive in the sense the disposition to nurture and are inevitably intertwined. Mothers, as we to be quite dominant for the very sake of And in fact, one student said that the children from their mothers and from Aggression that often saves will get themselves killed. And on the other hand have of an element of if we only emphasize the So these are two that we share, god but which we can not We have to think to be understood and applied. Besides kinship and however, we find a third And this third thing is very religion-- and this is play. Play is done, that have extended in which the young are protected pressures of foraging, and procreating. Play occurs in what the calls a &quot;relaxed field.&quot; Relaxed in the sense are minimal. It is through some bodily a play bow in apes that one signals to another Play is already among these Pretend play that takes or pretend fighting, but if one In short, there is a and when one does something that The play requires, at least, to take the role of the other To quote two students of animal Pierce, &quot;we want to stress that on a foundation of fairness. Play only occurs if are playing individuals have They put aside or in physical size We will see large and small and high ranking or low ranking But not if one of of its superior After all is said and that play is a unique and that asymmetries than in other social context. Animals really work at reducing and social status. Play is perhaps And if we define justice and expectations that neutralize with an effort to then that's exactly what So we have nurturance, And play is the first time we One aspect of this theory is of parental care, the offspring will have the to actually play of capacities that can begin But then have what Burkehardt Play is often explained as chasing and play fighting. Because they ultimately fight even though they're only pretending to. And then there is of even tertiary play, which But then there is need to think because, could be called alpha they're not really where we managed somehow males from doing that. France Duvall summarized the and the chimpanzees, who Of three main characteristics male bonding, female bonding, We share the first and second with bonobos, Our species has been adapted to a social order revolving the proverbial for which no parallel exists So early human groups and recollections of what accounts for The absence of a I don't think so. But rather a different that made possible a You might want to of the anthropologist particularly in his book Boehm argues that we share with and have a tendency that is a disposition But Boehm asks, if with despotic tendencies, to dominate whenever is it that the simplest the nomadic hunter-gatherers, and probably have if not millions of years? Boehm's answer is not lacked dominance hierarchies, what he calls reverse is the adult males a general coalition to prevent alone or with a few allies Male egalitarianism is and to females, the degree are subject to male among hunter-gatherers. So it tends to be less there of societies. But what the reverse is a monopolization of And what it, therefore, is the family as we know it-- based on relatively stable and mutual nurturance by parents, precisely what primate relatives. Boehm says that human come easily. But it is not the absence of rather it requires hard, to keep potential upstarts There are always who want to be they have to be handled somehow. The hunter-gatherer band is rather it is the precondition Boehm summarizes, two components of this kind of One is the moral community for social conformity. The other ingredient of social sanctioning to enforce adult males. I would add ritual as of the moral community the process of sanctioning Boehm is especially good on Potential upstarts then shunned, then, if That's one way to And he describes how this sanctions works and gives He was perhaps less is equally necessary of social solidarity in ritual that rewards the and a sense of full But where did ritual come from? Could it be one of Burkehardt's that develop only among humans? Remember that ritual has It has no obvious function, It enacts events, as in pretend play. And it takes place where hunger, predators, and For example, in the perpetually during the great festivals-- such as the Olympic of which the games a universal truce Relaxed field-- wasn't so Perhaps, it is only among processes have exfoliated that ritual is one, but only which developed out of them. The society engaged in mimetic would seem to be an almost elementary forms-- for the bodies of those engaged much beyond themselves and the Possibly, the elation and might point beyond society, to say the least. Since for Durkheim, is an expression of society. Here we would seem to society enacting itself. Still, can we say that Or, do we have to say that Mimetic ritual would seem to be it makes possible. So far I've been talking of complex mammalian Aspects that never very present among us kinship, and play. Though among humans, into all realms of culture, As Johan Huizinga in his I hope some of you will read but remains as timely as ever-- pointed out. He thought play was the However complex animals to represent reality itself is unique to humans. What Merlin Donald, for his evolutionary psychology, What is cultural is that individuals of previous events they are facing, how the so that an appropriate For example, a chimpanzee understands what happens and is able to make the right A great deal of learning goes on from infancy. This we share with But when Donald speaks as the next stage of then we see that Mimetic action involves to represent oneself and It moves beyond mammalian by representing events, We're already moving even without language with And, I think, ritual Donald argues that some form he calls it prosodic was necessarily part Stephen Mithen has The Singing Neanderthals-- the but they could sing. So mimetic might sound like that's not what it means. When it's primarily but prosodic use of the Of course, speech is bodily. And that develops in Once acquired the mimetic seems to call out for so Donald argues. Linguistic universals in which real world and, more important, he Like any other set linguistic conventions are in which they originated. They have mimetic origins, thus the features of emerge smoothly from the close and imitative behavior. This is not so covert The language instinct is not it arises from the lived The language instinct exists. But it is a domain general, impelled by a deep drive towards That's a rather startling Why this drive toward Donald suggest that there coherent representation than was possible to mimesis. Therefore, he writes, must be entertained that the was not language query integrated, initially, Now, we needed myth and because we needed myth, A little startling. Myth is a profoundly so I'll tell you how &quot;Mythical thought Donald, &quot;might be regarded held system of explanatory The mind has expanded its reach of events, beyond the of episodes to a of the entire human universe. Causal explanation, constitutes an attempt at all is permeated by myth.&quot; It is because of, in of myth over calls the stage after memetic Donald in emphasizing the approaches the view of the anthropologist who has emphasized the Levi-Strauss, think myth is a form or a primitive precursor a different cognitive function. He writes, &quot;to say that a way of and that it is an does not mean at all that it is It remains different by the shortest possible of the universe. And not only a italics-- understanding. It is a way of imply that if you don't you can't explain anything. [INAUDIBLE] All right. So big jump here. When mythic culture emerges we are still at this stage of based on reverse Language, however, gave of innovation in many spheres. And though much might imagine in terms of recent The surpluses resulting allowed much larger And there was accumulated to seem worth fighting over. You see why I needed So getting it all in, in 40 Forager egalitarianism and over dominance hierarchies First with simple chiefdoms, and then with where the focus was dancing out its common in a ritual enactment of myth. The focus now was on one man-- and it always was a man-- who claimed a new with a new kind of No longer the elusive of hunter-gatherer superordinate in a new way, and pacified and whose ruler has claimed to provide. Kings as gods and gods as for the first time, in third millennium BCE. We really can date it. Most of the things I've talked at all closely. Early states however led richer, and more of which, in the came a new kind of figure society in question and and what we know First millennium BCE. More than half of to the Axial Age in Israel, It is then that the third after the memetic and mythic The capacity to think and ethically. To summarize what me turn to a passage from about ancient China as a figure from whom he can Schwartz writes, I should like image of moral evil. In fact, the description which impede the is strikingly similar to the wise men, and philosophers of this period. The unbridled pursuit of wealth, arrogance, and pride-- we're talking about the but we might be talking These themes figure centrally &quot;the difficulty.&quot; The language of the comparatively easily into the vocabulary of Gautama prophets. The material development of had enormously increased at least for a certain strata, increase of luxury, and It is precisely in of the creative minorities that we find a resounding no, of human self-affirmation emerged with the For them the divine in the manifestations of power, What Schwartz calls the creative was imagining was a return to But this time in the And as an ongoing, still for social change. Each Axial Age culture and would take at least I've decided to use to look extremely quickly history that made the Then to touch briefly conclude with a few all this means to us. I've argued that theory And I believe that the of theory that we does indeed begin then. It is then that critical although the word science we would use even with didn't emerge until well The theory was also, developed in fields such as In a much looser be said to have existed learning occurred-- that result, x, and can be counted the basis of useful knowledge. A term we could use of what would become science. As long as, critical reflected on critical what has been called thinking about thinking-- then does not exist. Although much accumulated over was nothing that could be The term is itself 19th and error discovery or lead to another. That changed dramatically when what is called rapid when one discovery did These discoveries, however, into technological of the 18th century when the followed by the At first only in in parts of Western accelerating rapidly ever since. Think of how long we Even when I was a there were telephones. But then think about cell Facebook, Twitter, and whatever because we live in a world of This is so dramatically before in history. And for those of you who grew you can't really imagine how If the word modernity it has to apply to the 200 Revolution began. That period when the rate and social, and political never before even approached Population growth gives In 1800, the is estimated to have It had taken 300 years to which it had been in 1500. And most of that was but to the new agricultural after the discovery of the Potatoes, in particular, a population boom, still took 300 years to double. And it took 127 years from 1800 to 1927, which happens The population As some of you may know will reach 7 billion. On Halloween, I thought A mean joke. In other words, in my lifetime It is a tribute to of our social infrastructure could even survive today. Before 1800, that would have Mr. Malthus would Many people would later billions would That we can support even though something lives in the most is a tribute to our Yet the great have been accompanied by and with unresolved problems not so far ahead. So here we are more at how recently the world And more than a little What I'm trying to is to put all this to remember that we are part is life itself. We can't even be sure we aren't where that happened. But one not due to come to a sudden end early. With, perhaps, the exception We have developed some as Merlin Donald puts it. We've gone from memetic can communicate with and vocal movements, To mythic culture in both the great narratives accounting for everything and the small narratives and who those we love are. To theoretic culture through discovered, as Einstein is comprehensible. And began to think about that such a universe entails, and how we treat the Even though we have we live our lives still like the forms of the kinship, dominance If the nuclear family-- which the evolutionary suggest is coterminous then so at least several is fragile today. So has it always been. The picket fence and the was never more than Yet parents have siblings have fought each come to each other's defense. And today we are expanding our family to one that can which appears to me to suggest In a world of 7 are and will always be a variety some immensely And the ideal of the Axial Age-- a society that will but rulers under law be treated with equal respect-- is still a goal Then finally play. If you love your work, And that's one of the great I'm sorry to say. It really is play. Not every minute, but mostly. The exfoliation of human of the universe-- brings us a saving if we know how to use. The knowledge, even it would be unimaginable. Before we start dreaming are part human it will be well to about what we have attained and what we want to do with it. Since I have used into a discussion of the dark we're in the presage of much Let me turn to the for one example of how our lead us to think of a better we have now. [INAUDIBLE] knew was grieving, I alone have none, he said.&quot; Tzu Shia, this is not Confucius, who carried on after he died. Tzu Shia said, I heard this life riches and honors are Could a virtuous person-- in &quot;Since a virtuous person, reverence and diligence, and courtesy-- all these all within the four All within the four How could a virtuous that he has no brothers.&quot; Thank you. HANS JOAS: So much into some of the main ideas Now there is time or comments, or criticisms. There is one ROBERT BELLAH: [INAUDIBLE]. AUDIENCE: Actually, [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Yeah, Actually, I was almost from the standard recipe and trying to give the might be understood. The two key moments of what you asked for-- I can't overemphasize Understanding the and the centrality of and for human ethics-- it seems to me is that you discuss, which doesn't Even the idea is I saw, recently, a that something like don't know what the Well, if you don't does the Eucharist have? What can it possibly mean? Anyway, we live in a understand why ritual is so And not just historically, And we have lots of rituals They are political. They are sports. They are other spheres. And they do the job of but then without the depth. And then, again, when Age, and the recognition and wealth and the ultimate meaning of life. Although that was very central to my very long where I went into all these and the sacred, and so on. But if you pick article on religion, you I tried to give the context make a little more sense. Yes? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Yes. Yes. Yes. Well, Alison Gopnik, who has published, recently, a book and it's very much about play. And she makes the point that play is preferable to They would rather play And that's partly because They can experiment call alternative realities. And we think, oh they This is childish and But it's very important. It's very important for the to grow, for such things as And that provides, in contemporary children rooted in something like that-- that religion is about And religion says have to be like it is now. We can imagine We don't have to accept as absolutely given So there is a deep connection, and even in contemporary life Issue of? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: This is Minds much greater than mine And the usual explanation if God had created whether we wanted to or not, would be worthless. 'Cause to do evil that for us to try to do good. That's not necessarily but it's probably the I don't try to answer questions I'm trying to talk about of which these things come why, at a certain point, something amazing would happen? It isn't a reductionist book. It doesn't say anything It just said certain had to be there for In the Axial Age-- the we have four great cases, They arise out of similar as Ben [? Schwarkopf's ?] because there were changes were going on at that period. But the answers are Very different. And don't owe anything It isn't as though and the other were copied. The great world religions that have radically different There are, fortunately, between them, as in my &quot;all men quote at the end. But they're not the same. So there is an openness. And the notion of relaxed field of something more about how in there's an openness. The kind of drastic is as gloomy as the I think we live in and the more we know see that it's an open universe. And that also as human beings we can do something about it. And for furthermore, Yes. Yes. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. I wanted very strongly to are in the whole of nature. All the way back All the way back I mean, we share about 95% of We're related to everything. And many of the things that we are not. They are shared I've read so many people or the other thing is uniquely of nauseated with as part of our so much better than the On the other hand, in fact, I underline-- those happens that only humans have. And it happens already as I pointed out in Don's William McNeil wrote Even in our bodies, We're different from other apes. Only humans can keep Only humans can dance. That's very important. And of course, language and that opens up No non-human species has myth. So, yes, there are But also, no other to destroy all life on Earth. That is unique to human, and There is a dark side AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Yes, yes. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Yes. Yes. Well, writing is, obviously, and it allows the would call the external memory. Although, until relatively I mean, we've lost most of the and Euripides, alas. We've lost a lot of was in the ancient But it's better-- particularly there was a tendency had this dramatic consequence. Eric Havelock, who was when I was an undergraduate, And it obviously But the Indian Axial with oral culture. And for centuries after oral culture was very, And often books being a teacher would have a text in those days-- would read and then would, if they had anything But the writing was more of than it was autonomous. Even after printing, survived with an Indeed, it's alive The revolutionary consequences I think, overexaggerated as it is, I don't particularly AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Thank you, yes. Yes. Yeah, yeah. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. So one of the things is that I regretted of the work on each because I was, to some degree, And I wanted to go on with India or So I must admit that I find-- and there are many things that are very moving to me. Religion of the involved mass human doesn't appeal to me too much. I'm not totally value neutral. But I didn't see it as even though I'm a And in terms of I'm perfectly happily But this is not a of either Christian theology, or any other. It's an effort to in which some of or what the consequences The afterlife is a because what the Abrahamic is so radically Hindus and Buddhists believe. In the Abrahamic in cyclical And then a great many religions at all. It's simply not interesting. And ancient Judaism seems to say about the afterlife. So things that we because they're important in our And for the sociologists, is, why this variation? What are these things doing? How did they happen Not to come up with a final and the others are all wrong. And that is fact, suggest that maybe we have we don't need to think and the others are wrong. And it doesn't mean that and you just can but that this is a large of truth in it, and we can to those we hold, while even with firmness and faithfulness. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. Well, in a book that any disciplinary many sociologist as a sociological book and absolutely centrally. I haven't gotten into I am sorry to say that in the journals of strike me as self-defeating. I mean, the attack on It's like when the to throw out the word culture. You're sort of slitting I mean, yes, there are a lot is a problematic word. I am a student of Wilfred was one of the first to attack and his name is If people want to replace the faith, which is what I don't care. I don't think it gets But that's fine with me. So, yes, one cannot keep up being aware of this and some of the ways in which off the deep end. But that's not what My book is about what I can and using the best scholars these subjects well, or whether they're classicists, on ancient Buddhism. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. Well, of course, that's I mean, it kind a defense of the humanities And I certainly do think that thing-- the governor of for Humanities and Social University of Florida-- as an example of what you're we need is economics and whatever science That is madness, But then we have lots of Alison Gopnik has The usefulness of uselessness. Now, we need uselessness. We need relaxed Well, as I'm saying, play They can enrich each other. But if your sole focus going to make when I make me the biggest salary-- I've talked to who think that way. It's a dark world. I can't imagine what their Rather than asking, what doing the rest of my life? The only question is, what's I know that's rampant What I, in my feeble is that there's a lot Now, the one thing If you want to get very rich, AUDIENCE: As a fellow an Episcopalian-- many in Oklahoma in my time. ROBERT BELLAH: I AUDIENCE: I'd also like to on this topic of play. I hadn't thought of it in terms but I think that your point with the selection ROBERT BELLAH: Yes. Yes, yes. AUDIENCE: How do you ROBERT BELLAH: Yes. Yes. Well, I think I saw in an of the great discoveries in the last 50 years-- were sort of accidental. It wasn't as though I'm going to figure out the They stumbled on it by mistake. And then they said, oh my god, Well, there's something very of not thinking you're and creating this great theory, with what comes and making the most of it. And so bringing that element of would, I think, make But that probably doesn't but it's what I come up with. And maybe-- AUDIENCE: [AUDIO OUT] , and [SIDE CONVERSATION] AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Yes. Yes. Or Protestant. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Yeah, AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. ROBERT BELLAH: Yes. Well that is a David, because it's very I want to take each religious to understand it. And not reduce it to not to explain it away-- but to realize that people and understand why, and But basically, just to show it. To help people understand of this story. It is a fantastic story, The book itself is So it's only marginally It's still a very narrative, And I don't think I'm doing but maybe I'm doing something and not quite what most social But thank you for that. [APPLAUSE] We thank you for listening For more information, please see our website, Copyright the University