(logo blips) - [Jake] Hey, and we're back with another episode of &quot;Before You Buy,&quot; the show where we give you and our first impressions of As usual, it's me, Jake, and I've been playing &quot;LEGO It's been a long time since and they're really If you're a bit older, you might think it's just but since the PS2/GameCube were a powerhouse for younger fans. It's a whole cultural avenue of gaming that is very often ignored, &quot;Lego Star Wars&quot; games are it's like video game comfort food. And so with this new one, all of the mainline &quot;Star from the prequels to the which not all of them got It's got all the ups and as well as tons of vehicles and fully explorable open planets, a galaxy map like 400 playable characters. It's really ambitious and honestly, impressive You know, while it sometimes and filled with unnecessary and sometimes boring stuff in spots, I think overall, players will be happy to jump in, especially if you're gonna go through it with a child or a friend, It's good for a couple of laughs and some good &quot;Lego Star Wars&quot; good times. And just so you know, we've and this footage here, has been captured on an Xbox Series X. Now, the way it works you can access basically, the starting film from each trilogy. And then by playing through, you subsequently unlock the next one, like finishing &quot;A New Hope&quot; that kind of thing. Now these are new &quot;Lego they're not just dumping Each movie is represented And each one can last you a few hours depending on how you play. Now, the &quot;Lego Star Wars&quot; core but updated. You hunt for hidden collectibles, punch stuff to make it You build stuff and you fight That stuff is the same, but the twists are pretty noteworthy. Shooting combat is now and feels more like a There's also a light cover system, where characters will and you can switch to other cover spots by pointing at it and pressing a button. Aiming is pretty decent and certain characters can Feedback feels pretty decent and Stormtroopers hilariously, will stumble around when you shoot them. And it's actually pretty satisfying to pop their helmets off. Now, shootouts from cover are 'cause the actual cover and a lot of enemies just run at you, but it it works sometimes. That might sound like I'm nitpicking. I don't know, I'm just doing my job. If you're playing with that kid is not gonna care about a rough around Still, stuff like that, Droids are still mostly in charge of opening doors and unlocking things. But man, oh man, the melee, especially for characters it's been updated quite a bit. You can now do combos and You can hit dudes, you can you can ground slam and there's way more room to make combat a little more engaging. Some enemies can block, so And some enemies even that you can actually counter. It's all super basic, because people of different age groups have to be able to grasp it. But it's a nice step up and really makes a difference and especially the It's a good satisfying Now the only thing that is that your AI controlled companions are absolutely mindless, way more than they should be, and way more than they have in the past, to the point where most of the barely helping out in combat and it almost feels They'll occasionally fire off a shot but they mostly just stand around, in the middle of the action and it was really distracting. It's definitely much stronger which as far as I know is only good, old-fashioned couch split-screen, old school style. Now the other big addition more exploration and a Now, sometimes it's So right from the start, right outside Luke's there's a sprawling and people to talk to and that usually nets you mini Then pretty much every time you progress, you can find yourself in I'm talking, all of Cloud Naboo, Jakku and Niima Outpost, all filled with rideable It's a lot. They give you a lot of them. Like remember the three where Qui-Gon and Jar that whole wooded area is like a big, open, playable explorable area, it's wild. It's a lot and all of it is somewhat skippable, if you wanna just play It just means you have to usually run a long distance to the next thing. And the same goes for space regions. Before flying down to a you can freely fly and usually find a few battles or a floating droid that'll There is a staggering just for me personally though, There are so many Easter eggs and references in the and good jokes, but on the gameplay side, after a while it got stale, and when I got to my I was pretty much tapped out and just didn't want to see anymore 'cause it felt a little repetitive. That being said, I still hopping on a speeder and cruising around just to check out the It's all just a massive collect-a-thon. Now your mileage is gonna vary, I got bored of this after a while, but I know a lot of people do not. And if you are a classic Lego man, this game is designed Of course, a lot of this is grinding out, collecting for free play mode where you could just use that you unlocked and play as That's a normal Lego game type thing, but now you also get the skill tree, where you can dump for each specific type of character, like Jedis, protocol stuff like that. More health, better attacks, faster force powers, stuff like that. None of it is really necessary, it's buried in an overly with a new hint and And it's all just kind of fluff but it can be a nice I actually though, found throughout the main quest, which kind of shows how But again, I think it's more about the fun of the collecting, the thrill of the collecting grind. Now on this front, to me, and my memory of the games is a bit fuzzy, it seems like the most all encompassing, comprehensive &quot;Star Wars&quot; game ever. It's a massive celebration of all of it. It pokes fun of all of of it and it doesn't take it but it still feels like a labor of love for the whole franchise, warts and all. You know, to run around as Jango Fett, or fight Kylo Ren, or fight all of it hits, real good. Even if it's just like it still works and feels like a genuinely satisfying That might sound cheesy, lifelong &quot;Star Wars&quot; fan and no, I will not debate or read comment Still, it's definitely mostly for the big, Lego and people with kids or As a somewhat adult man, playing this game in solitary confinement, I had fun, but I can Still, like I said, it's good stuff. I think if you were it's exactly what you were hoping for. If you saw the trailers a million &quot;Star Wars&quot; characters and playing through all the movies, you get exactly what you want here. It's a bit different than previous games, it acts as a few things but it adds a metric boatload &quot;Star Wars&quot; goodness. And that's awesome, man. But that's a brief look at &quot;Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga&quot;. I wanna hear what you guys think. This game is releasing this week and what campaign are playing through the most? Is it something that Like &quot;The Rise Of Skywalker&quot; Or are you just looking forward to replaying &quot;Revenge Of The Sith&quot;? I know that was my favorite. But we can talk anything &quot;Lego Star Wars&quot; and really Lego games in What's the next game you wanna see get a modern Lego treatment? Let's talk about any of this stuff. If you enjoyed this video though, and it helped inform you, helped make you a more informed clicking the like it legit helps us out, thank you. But as always, thank you guys for watching and we'll see you next time. - Power's back! That little droid did it! (bombastic Star Wars music) (star ship zooms) There's not enough power The hyperdrive is leaking. - Here, Master, Tattooine. It's small, out of the way. The Trade Federation (Jar Jar groans and retches) (star ship humming) - [Qui Gon] Tattooine, you say? Any suggestions on where we should land? - [Obi Wan] Mos Espa