- I love Thanksgiving. It's like, is turkey anyone's But isn't it nice to do At least just once I think so. It's a very peaceful Thanksgiving. This year I'm doing less and that's what happens to come. For stuffing bread. I don't cube, I tear. It's Every year. I am, no, I added too much milk. Oh zoinks what was that? - Who did it? - Hello everybody. This I'm doing a little less, I'm doing more service for you. I'm doing less for me in hosting. I just don't have it in me this year. And I uninvited several people. I said smaller numbers, but like let's also do everything ahead. I started thinking about and like what causes me the most stress? And it's not the cooking, of dishes I make, it's not the complexity of the dishes that I make. It is truly just like making and getting all the food on of time when the people and taking care of them and like making sure they have a drink. And maybe that's just like and I'm almost 40 and So in keeping in the spirit and like what is exciting and like what my body is craving, the foods are largely soft and beige. They are creamy, they are I don't know, is this turtleneck Alright. - Is the turtleneck working? I say it is. I think you look gorgeous. Okay. - I feel like no matter what saying something, you know, I wanna say less and I wanna just be - So I think just be, - And accept it. - I think when it comes to whether it's like your day before, I find it really helpful to just write your menu down so you kind of like can remind yourself Doing this on like an old-fashioned pen and paper is really sweet. I always, whenever I'm I start with the turkey. This year I'm gonna of like cracked pepper and fennel seed and I'm gonna roast it on a sheet pan because I still do not own a roasting pan. The gravy that I'm gonna meaning I'm making like the base of the gravy the day before. And then I'm going to augment it with all the pan drippings from the turkey we're gonna make a sour cream and chive potato yukon gold mash. No ricer, no masher. Wooden spoon only, buttermilk and a lot of chives and Oh, and we're gonna make 'em ahead. Surprise. You're welcome. - Are you gonna parboil - You're gonna have to wait and see. - Okay. Okay. - Okay. So we are obviously Another question I get year after year is how do I add meat to this? I don't think you need to, but I will also show you how So we will do one stuffing We're also gonna make a casserole for the first of sound pretty good. I like green bean casserole. I always have, I just like mine. A little less intense, a little less rich, a little less creamy than So that to me is like of I'd say like classic I really wanted to make a I wanted to make it work so Maybe I do think macaroni on your Thanksgiving plate. I don't know. People love it. It just didn't work. I In my effort to compromise, I'm making a peppered squash gratin. It's delicious and is probably that you can bring to someone's house. Every year I like to make a salad. Every year it's nobody's favorite. And this year, you know what I was like, you know what I'm ready for? I'm ready for kale salad. I'm ready to bring back kale salad. If you're gonna make a salad ahead. I think kale is the best ingredient. It gets better with time. You can save it as a leftover, you can eat it the next day honey-fried walnuts. It's gonna be really good and then we're gonna have cranberries. To me it's very difficult to beat canned cranberries But having cranberry sauce for the leftovers almost I'm calling these &quot;The Cranberries&quot; 'cause I think that's funny. That brings us to dessert. my best friends, like they all kind of still want a pumpkin pie. Okay, let's do it. Let's We're not gonna do it with a pie crust. We are gonna do it with like To me this is just like a But it's a pumpkin pie is what it is. - [Doron] 2024? - Yeah, yeah. Let's go grocery shopping. My Okay, so I've organized produce, and then specialty. This isn't actually that big of a list. A lot of things you might already have. So what I would recommend and then going through your own home and deciding what it is that that you do not need to purchase again. I know that there's also gonna be I did this last night like and I was like feeling and now I'm panicked 'cause I always forget something. So make sure you build that of being like, I do need a bit of grace. I suppose this would be where which I decided not to do this year. Ooh, good aisle. So we're gonna double check parchment paper, Ziploc bags, sponges, things like that that you're gonna use a lot Whether you're having that many people or not, it's just more more people, more food. Just make sure you have all that stuff. No, for your pumpkin pie, you're gonna need some more spices. These are things that people had spices in your pantry for more than six months, I'd say like a year is I have a real bee in my that spices are sold in. It would take me six calendar years to get through this much cinnamon and that's me. A person who like recipe The average person is not ever in like their lifetime. I'm sorry, it's a waste. I had called at some point and asked if they had So we could like illustrate. I don't know where we are. Whenever I'm shopping for butter and this is like across the or not, I never spring for highest caliber unless I know radish or on toast or whatever. But I also never go for like because I feel like it and at which point I might Organic dairy will always be dairy and organic onion might not be that much more expensive but dairy I feel is more important to buy organic than other things. I just feel that way. Dairy so much work and effort that involve animals and the manufacturing of the that are organic are more more expensive just and so they're more expensive for the customer and I accept that. I found the turkey. Everybody relax. I found turkey more often to you are frozen. I'm getting a turkey from a farm. They are still freezing the turkey because it just is a easier, that they can like slaughter Keep them fresh for the customer. Like they're just, they're frozen. Just going through. I We make turkey. [Graham] It's actually just turkey, Graham. We're doing the whole turkey. Really? Okay. Oh okay. We'll tape this up. The - Fridge. [Doron] It is kind of - Right? Yeah, I think so. Okay, So we're gonna start with the turkey. I feel like this is the first thing you do because it's the star, It also takes the longest, it takes the longest to season, Like the turkey is something before anything else. This is crazy in here every year I say that but every year is true. Oh, oh It's fine. Flip or watch. [Graham] Turkey, take two. So we're gonna do our turkey first and that also includes So I say let's make the turkey. The thing that I'm saying is let's do everything turkey-related. These baby turkey bags I was like how much does a I am making this not at Thanksgiving time. I am not getting the like because those turkeys are Very difficult to find because most people This is on the larger side of a turkey. For me personally, I think a like 12-pound bird This is almost 15. So for your turkey, again You will need two rimmed baking sheets. These are your standard These are not cookie sheets, which those are just the flat sheets that things slide off and on. And a wire rack. Again, if you are making Thanksgiving, you should have two sheet pans anyway, like even if you're not I would say invest in a second sheet pan if you only have one. And the other thing we'll This is enough for five pounds celery, garlic, bay leaf, whatever sied to give you enough turkey stock for your stuffing, for your gravy. And then sometimes even for something like pozole or chili or soup or stew the next day for Okay, this is a regular like supremely large. This is a baby turkey wing, but it's again about the size of the turkey wing on our turkey. Yeah, that's pretty wild. Okay, so for these we're gonna drizzle and then roast them at 425, 450. Turkey despite having all the that in order for like proper browning, they really do need quite a bit of fat. My stomach is like getting and it's very weird. With I feel like I repeat myself so much and this is now my fourth I was like panicked like how And I'm like, you know what? because I'm different. My life is different every Anything can happen. You know what I mean? I'm making pumpkin pie. That would've never happened last year. You can't really over roast those. So I mean you can set a Check 'em. I'm gonna get but I'm just gonna prep this. The first step you're gonna take the giblets outside. One time I did, I think I have, have I told every story about I can't imagine every of Thanksgiving content I've ever done. I'm sure you exist, but like or maybe you enjoy it, in I roasted the giblets inside the Don't do that. One important Go in both sides. So that was side one. What awaits us in side I forgot I took out that but I didn't take out the second side. The liver? Yeah. All right, so stock. Most of the flavor is Some people will even say with the meat, but the flavor of which is probably maybe one These carrots are cute. It's a shame to put them in the stock, Two onions, some carrot, some celery, and then I'll do, I'm gonna for the stuffing and so otherwise I would discard them. Okay, our turkey, like all to be a basic mixture of sugar and salt. I use light brown sugar. I I think it gives you more color. This basic ratio is third If you're making a lot more turkey, feel free to double this. This rub also is excellent and your turkey won't Don't worry about that. I am I don't care for them. But brine, you would miss it. It does kind of lack a The color is lacking. You Okay, so this is your This would be good as is. If We are gonna sort of I'm just gonna grind the pepper I'm like out of breath, grinding pepper. And then I'm gonna finely You can crack these with a rolling pin. You can chop them with a knife. You're not looking for You are just kind of looking open a little bit and not Does that sound good? I'm flavor for some people for Thanksgiving, but I promise in the context it is extremely harmonious. If you're like, I hate fennel, then you've already made up your mind and you're not gonna make I'm not talking to you. Not to be rude, just people hate the weirdest things I get. I mean, I don't like things, but the things that I don't like. I think most people also don't like not to be like I'm right. I don't know, like red bell pepper. I'm just gonna do these three cloves 'cause these are pretty large. And then I'm gonna add some herbs. You could use all or none or one or some of these herbs. I'm gonna do sage and then I'm gonna use the other two sort of in and around the turkey. Sage is a pretty intensely flavored herb. It tampers the fennel. It It's like it's meant to be here. It's, it reminds you and not just like a regular poultry rub. Okay, so sage, garlic, brown sugar, kosher salt. Okay, this turkey will It's going to slowly Wow, the chicken. It's a turkey. It's gonna slowly the next 24 hours. You can go 48 hours. Even better. Anything that falls off, I'm gonna gather and then like redistribute. By the way, for me, the place that I wanna focus on the And as you roast the turkey, and some of this flavor is and the basting liquid, it's like all going into the same place. And I'll just kind of like The bottom being important. 'cause that's where the thighs are. This is like extra credit, and this is like pretty gross. Okay, let's check on our Jesus. Let's check on our turkey wings, but just know if you're making Now those are gorgeous. I'm gonna just pop them This will shrink down All that crispy turkey skin laid to waste. All right, as this heats up like everything's gonna kind of soften and the wings will submerge. Don't worry. - Worst Thanksgiving It's not the worst food, to eat at Thanksgiving, I think. - Canned cranberry sauce that - Yes. So Klaviyo, if or a small business owner, that will help you reach through things like AI- SMS, stuff like that. - You're welcome. I'm so boring. I like stuffing I recognize the fact that they wanna put something else in it. And I think if you're just potato, sure, like get add mushrooms, add smoked Like do whatever you want. of the meal, I don't like it when anything competes with something else. And I also think that the that said I'm here to please. So today we'll make like and then half of it will get sausage and maybe some kale, some herbs, and the other half will But the base is the I have really experimented and I really think that like the lighter the loaf the better. If you can find it. I I wasn't able to find Or actually in Brooklyn. This is just kind of like I think there's some whole wheat flour in here that works too. It's not overly crusty, And I think that that's Sometimes those miche loaves are very flat and it's a high ratio of crust to filling and then your stuffing kind So we're just gonna tear off I may decide to fast forward through this because I've made stuffing so many times. It's hard. It's hard to do Next year, I'll have a baby. Where I may, I might not do - [Doron] I think you - I might not. I also have so I almost certainly won't Sorry. It's okay. Sometimes I It's someone ask me like with the baby when you film Home Movies? But like, I don't know, and they figure out what? Who watches the baby? I don't I don't know. You might We're great though. Thanks for tuning in. I know you better appreciate All right. This is step All right, we're gonna things that you can make ahead. So my stock is already going great. My turkey's brining away I'm gonna start on the potatoes because people have to They just simply have to, and make our pumpkin pie. The crust will go in the oven. We'll make the custard like it's These can be 42 types of ways. They can be roasted garlic, they can have buttermilk or heavy cream. They can have butter, You can, I just named a which is dairy and potato. But that's true. These and more about the buttermilk I think a potato can be while also being like tangy and light. And I also don't think you need a ricer. The inspiration in texture and flavor here is like the So like really creamy, but like really tangy, lots of chives. Delicious. Innovating on of a fool's errand. I think that like it's and that's delicious. Mashed potatoes are simple And I think like the more the less delicious they are. I'm using a small scale I'm looking for five pounds of potatoes. As long as at least half I'm using all yukon gold just because that's what I, when what they had and they didn't have russets and that feels great to me. And yukon Gold will give you a potato that's like texturally denser, but also tastes creamier, I weighed these yesterday I'm doing this for show. Will it stack? - [Doron] Incredible - I am. No thank you. Okay, where's my peeler? Anyone? Found it. It's in the bottom of this. I found it. Settle in. Hate the ricer. Hate the masher. If I can't use you for multiple things, I won't have you. But I like to test the did and I was like, this is fine. Was it worth having this dumb piece of equipment in my house? No, I'm just cutting these into pieces that are all about the same size. Because when you buy potatoes like this and sometimes So the idea is that they'll The smaller you cook your but the higher chance that So I like to keep them I'm gonna put quite a bit of salt here. I would say like three big pinches hmm four, this is like real Just like pasta. This is your If you don't season your to be like you can never go back, but like you'll have a I think. It's not like pasta where you really need like that the water doesn't get too starchy. You kind of just need like to three inches and then you're good. Nice walk back. Okay. I feel good there. People ask me a lot of times like how to for Thanksgiving, which of the most daunting But especially for a big where there's like multiple dishes. If I use a bowl, rinse it out. Especially if it's not dirty, like let's just have potatoes in it. I just rinse it out so for my cookies without I'm not worried about like pumpkin pie crust. You know what I mean? All No, we're gonna do pumpkin pie now. Pumpkin pie is something that I have struggled with. It's like too squashy or too I also don't prefer the crust with a pumpkin pie. 'cause I feel like you know, pumpkin pie needs to be chilled. I think a all butter flaky Unless you're talking leftovers. Like I think you lose a lot of magic once that crust is chilled. But what I do think might like a spiced cookie crust. Traditionally the recipe and a lot of like allrecipes.com milk as like the ingredient. For whatever reason I'm I always have been, I love Evaporated milk freaks So I'm using heavy cream and eggs, sort of more And I did wanna make this but more than I wanted that I want you to use the entire 15- I don't believe in making your I think that is laborious and the product is not Why can't I open this? You don't want me to have You could use graham crackers, you could use nilla wafers probably. And you could use Biscoff. Biscoff are sweeter than another They're not like cloying or anything, but they're just, they're sweeter and often you can only get But ginger snaps, these are sort of like a fancy ginger snap, but whatever. Cute. I'm obsessed with these cookies. Did - Thank you. - Yeah. If you wanna grind these cookies, you can also crush them in a Oh, okay. I'm gonna say two about a teaspoon of kosher salt and six tablespoons of melted butter. Oh, one thing I didn't do last time, I didn't spray my pie plate 'cause I was like, oh, I don't need to. You do need to, and I forget that every time. So spray your pie plate. It smells so good. Ginger The edge and the top will but making sure that it is like compacted It's just a more enjoyable experience to have the crust be Anyway. I.e. a pile of cookies. 15. Let's check our potatoes. Hmm. Can it be sliced easily? Yes. Yes. That's the test. This is the sheet pan that we our turkey wings. I'm gonna let these cool for a sec. You don't wanna wait too much time between when you've cooked your potatoes and when you crush a mash, to hot dairy that is gonna which gives you like that gluey texture that you do not want. All right. The sour and chive potato comes on the reheat. This is like your basic base I think that whether you're or today for tomorrow or this is as far as I would take them until you're ready to serve. This is just gonna be your heavy cream, your buttermilk, and a little bit of butter. Buttermilk does not have any fat. It says low fat, but So to compensate we're So heavy cream is giving you fat, buttermilk is giving you tang. Everybody wins this. You do You could add some crushed garlic. You could add a sprig of You could like steep I'm keeping it like chive and the sour cream. My unwashed pot. - [Doron] They will be - In your unwashed pot. These potatoes are hot. Beautiful, gorgeous. They should just kind of fall apart. I am a fan of the lump in my potato. It reminds me that it was once a potato. It says I was a potato. All right, dairy is hot. Potatoes are hot. There's no butter in this. That's why I'm gonna add a knob after. Okay, keep in mind you're adding more dairy and and you're adding, like But the seasoning should like more or less be what you want in terms of salt because you can always adjust later. But there's no use in letting seasoned overnight in the These don't even have sour cream or butter or chives in them, but they will and they'll just like continue to get more and more delicious. But right now they're Potatoes made ahead. Just one last thing you except you're still re-heating Alright, so let's back to this pumpkin pie. The thing about pumpkin as you have cinnamon, I think you're good. One 15 ounce can pumpkin because I think it gives you granulated and the granulated is there because I think all brown sugar So it's there to balance one teaspoon of cinnamon, ground. Doing about a tablespoon, And I like nutmeg. I only use nutmeg like maybe twice a year. I love it in my creamed spinach. A little bit goes a long way, by like the nugget. What? - What? - I've never heard that. - [Doron] Oh really? Damn. It says no results when - Yeah, literally like what? All right, I'm whisking this together. This is the squash, salt and pepper - [Doron] And asparagus. - And there's asparagus I'm gonna add the eggs. You do need the eggs and but it's mostly like Pouring. Cool. I'm reducing the temperature And I'm gonna put it in there I'm gonna check it after 30. But you want this to bake low and slow. If you bake it hot and fast, it might rise, it might fall. It might bake unevenly. It might bake hard around the center. Custardy raw in the middle. Cool. Okay. Cranberries. Again, I love canned cranberries and I'll probably serve them tomorrow. I like cranberries from a can with like citrus and onion. And I like the cranberries or frozen, cooked with sugar or honey and some orange juice as like a sauce. Spoonable, good for and like just like a little bit. The other one's like jelly. Not everyone's gonna wanna That's fine. It's so easy that it's sort of like, why wouldn't you? I start with half. You can eyeball it, don't weigh it. And frozen cranberries are awesome. You do not need to use You could use regular granulated sugar. You could also use honey. because I like the texture that it gives. Sometimes I'll use a mix of And a quarter cup of granulated sugar, which is about two ounces. This is a very peaceful Thanksgiving. That's what happens when So I'm gonna get that simmering. If you wanna add ginger to If you wanna add the unwaxed If you wanna throw cinnamon a single clove of you can Thanksgiving, there's that like the single clove or like even the like the nuance is lost and it feels like a lot of work, of effort for like when you're effectively like, it doesn't matter. I think it's like know when to Ooh, our cranberries are boiling. They're like orange and I didn't add anything other than a little juice and some cranberry. I'm gonna now add these and I'm just gonna cook So you get like variety of texture. You get like the juiciness, you get the really popped. It is like a symphony All right, these are good. They'll continue to like give But I don't need to cook them any further. I don't need to like But I really love how they look too, where it's like big ripe, amongst the like deep ruby, like more compote cooked Better than plastic It looks so silly though. - [Doron] A lid. maybe it's giving Super Mario. All right. You know the reason because his sister watched Home Movies. She's like, oh, we're having And he's like, who's that? And she's like, oh, it's this person. And like showed him my videos and he is like, I wanna meet that lady. I like her. And guess what? Anyway, marriage is great. I love being married to my fan husband. Now it's time for green bean casserole. Normally a green bean of mushroom soup, which is like your mushrooms all in one. It's not for me. So I'm which also allows me to It's just gonna be a little Not that much more I think the best way to do line them up, tail, keep it on. Stem. I snap off. This is certainly not but I think you waste Can't really have green bean And what kind of mushroom I like to use a mix of 'cause they're just, they taste I like the shape of them. I like how they feel like in the sauce, like underneath the onions. I am just gonna use one medium onion. - Contacts. It's the Wear contact lenses. Let's call You want like a, A nice layer? Yeah. Ahooga. Aww, look at his butt. That's all I, my personality And now all I do is think about my cat. It is important that you get as much color in here as possible. And it's really important that like all cremini or button as much water out of them as possible. A lot of the flavor in this brownness, brownness, of the mushrooms and the onions here. Don't dismiss this as like, Like this is a real beautiful and green beans and French's, I don't mind that some like torn apart. There's like almost like a mix and like sort of like mushroom pasty bits. And like the onions have Their natural sugars have I'm adding the green beans. We're not looking for any color here. We're just looking for them Way more tender. Still That's fine. All right. Two tablespoons of butter and We can get some vegetables all right, so I'm gonna add this to this. You do kind of wanna go dump this into here. This skillet will have no 'cause I've like scraped them all up by doing this a little bit at a time. It also needs soy sauce that is in the original green back of the Campbell's soup can. So I'm gonna add two tablespoons of this. This is gonna go in our baking dish. Is it too big? Might be too big. There might be too little I think I've got to go smaller. Now we're gonna make our to strain stock is to do and with as many utensils and letting it settle. All right, and then I'm and delicately strain it. Color is good, huh? It is so much better to be pregnant and say I'm pregnant, than to And like not telling and being like seafood pasta - yummy. That was so tough. That was so tough. Gravy. You can make it in It's fantastic. You are still gonna use but all you need for and a dream and a good attitude. So gravy is fat and flour and thinned with a liquid. And that liquid could be milk, it could be water, it could be broth. In the classic Thanksgiving and it's also the I'm gonna use the good butter for this. Six tablespoons, half a We are gonna take this to a nice color. We are not browning the butter, but we are gonna brown the roo. A lot of the flavor that we're now as we like toast You don't wanna rush you know, smells really good though, I gotta say. Okay, so now we're in We're gonna go to like I feel confident I'm gonna stop. And by stop, I mean this is now when I'm gonna add the liquid. Oh no, see it too slow. This gravy will also always be with turkey drippings until See how like it's very thick and it's gonna continue to be thick. This will be a solid mass Like when we take it outta the fridge, it's gonna be like a jello because there's butter, very gelatin rich stock. So the whole thing is gonna Once chilled, just so don't So we'll add two tablespoons and two tablespoons of The soy sauce is there mostly You'll get a lot of color And the vinegar's there for acidity. So I added two and a half cups Gravy is a complex food item and really benefits from time. So either simmering or resting So we're gonna do both. Great. Okay. It's the end of day We dry around the turkey, Sour cream and chive potatoes kind of just did those perfect stuffing. We'll make tomorrow green bean We can cross that off. I can We can cross off the gravy as well. Peppered squash gratin we'll make tomorrow. Cranberries done. Pumpkin pie. Done. So tomorrow I feel like that is such a manageable day. I'm sure someone's watching being like, I always do Thanksgiving this way. Like I always make everything ahead. Well, I don't, and this is new for me. And this feels like personal or a new adventure or just And I applaud myself for that and for anyone who also is trying to have a more mellow where you do more the day I feel like we've achieved that already. Talk to me tomorrow. But I feel good. I feel like we're good, right?