Can a soldier's PTSD be cured Some scientists and activists think that it just about divine cannibalism here, don't worry. One of nature's most popular hallucinogens, subject of fascination, debate, and thriving or medicine? Is the potential key to the people do at Coachella, or something because today, we're taking an in-depth look at So what exactly are these special shrooms, Well, it's not really magic. It's a little species of psilocybin-containing mushrooms in the of mushrooms that have been found to contain commonly used, however, so for the purposes These mushrooms are dark-spored, gilled, and tend primarily in Mexico, Canada, and the United species are found in subtropical humid forests. to talk about what these mushrooms actually do to So, let's imagine that someone and alongside that mushroom, they've swallowed we can pilot through their insides Hold on tight, and keep your arms and legs Wow, they should really floss better. Anyway. Where'd that mushroom go? Right, down we all know how that part goes. But the psilocybin they just ingested is headed to psilocin. Now, let's head up to the brain, That psilocin is binding to hitching a ride so they can speed the brain is lighting up with activity as the in the prefrontal cortex. This is the part of as well as mood and perception. Meanwhile, regions each other start feeling really chatty, firing If we speed back out through the nose and we can see dilated pupils, a drowsy that's so embarrassing, they just dropped though; psilocybin can also cause a lack also on the table, but hopefully, we Let's head back inside and take another let's see what our patient is seeing and take we're operating on Magic Schoolbus logic, Their trip is just beginning to peak, for the first three to four hours after sense as visual and auditory hallucinations perception of time and space. Has it been Okay, cool. Colors are beginning to look are shimmering and warping like the surface of contract as if they are breathing. All of the certain sounds may trigger the sudden appearance Thankfully, our patient prepared and they are in little danger of it's a bit like being in a waking a 2014 study determined that psilocybin increases the same heightened activation of the emotional Well, let's leave our patient alone for poster and listen to their classic rock. yet. Where exactly did these fun-time fungi but when did humans discover their Psilocybin-rich so-called &quot;magic and somewhat contentious history. Historians as far back as the ancient Mayan and and artistic representations of mushrooms Additionally, there are records of Aztec or &quot;flesh of the gods,&quot; which many of these same mushrooms. These mushrooms were used peyote and morning glory seeds, to produce one could potentially communicate with the gods. mushrooms have been traced back 3500 to the rest of the Central American and El Salvador. The rituals were performed by Some examples of art depicting psychoactive Xochipilli, the Aztec god of flowers, found on the Teotihuacan. The sculpture includes depictions as well as tobacco, Heimia salicifolia, and which dates back to 500 CE, depicts the appear to be priests holding hallucinogenic These same mushrooms are also believed to have various Aztec emperors, including In the 16th century, Spanish Catholic including Spanish vicar Diego Duran, ceremonies. He wrote, &quot;Wild mushrooms are Spanish Friar Bernardino de Sahagun, who described these mushrooms as well &quot;The little mushrooms that grow in this land the hay in the fields and plains. They are and slender. Their taste is unpleasant; they used as medicine for fever and gout. No Those who eat them see visions the visions they see are sometimes frightening in excess are driven to lust. Silly and naughty In spite of the long history of magic mushrooms, they did not get mainstream attention in an amateur mycologist (and JP Morgan bank vice modern Westerner to experience and document story was published in Life magazine in 1957 He described his experiences with the his friend Allan Richardson. By the before leaving for Mexico that he would but when faced with the opportunity, he chose however, reportedly muttering to himself, &quot;My God, The mushrooms were provided by a or shamans, who gave each of the two Wasson ate them and detailed what happened next, &quot;They tasted bad- acrid with a Allan and I were determined to resist any the events of the night. But our resolve soon And what did that onslaught look like? Visions that lasted deep into the night until &quot;They were in vivid color, always angular such as might decorate carpets or an architect. Then they evolved into palaces with laid over with semiprecious stones. Then I saw Later, it was as though the walls of our house I was suspended in mid-air viewing landscapes of across the slopes, the mountains rising All in all, he witnessed nine mushroom outside of a ceremonial context, trying them Masha. And he wasn't done with them yet, in Mexico and brought them back with him to New bedroom. He discovered that &quot;if anything, they One of these mushrooms, a sample of Psiloybe the research of a scientist named Albert Hofmann, A colleague of Wasson, Roger Heim, reached out to the psilocybin and psilocin from these mushrooms. and by 1962, Hofman and Franz Troxler That Life Magazine article of Wasson's name in the world of psychotropic drugs, he became interested in the mushrooms, them at Harvard University as part of the board of this project included Leary, and Aldous Huxley (if that name sounds familiar, These experiments included the Concord Prison psilocybin in an attempt to prevent and the Marsh Chapel Experiment (also known Chapel Experiment, a Harvard Divinity Leary's supervision) administered psilocybin This was intended to test the potential for achieved in the traditional mushroom ceremonies The program ended in March of 1962 when other in Personality began to bring up concerns experiments. But the new, widespread fascination But as mushrooms and other psychedelics Federal Government began to crack down on was criminalized under the Staggers-Dodd bill. the &quot;War on Drugs&quot; and passed the Controlled as a &quot;Schedule One&quot; drug. The United Kingdom However, their newfound criminalization didn't mind-bending fungi at home. In the mid-1970s, that, as the possession of spores and mushrooms and psilocin) remained legal in most states. Dennis McKenna, a hobbyist who would publish in 1976, after successfully growing some The ideal species for home growers were the perfect place to grow them. This expanded to an underground network of In the 1990s, the art of magic mushroom redefined by enthusiasts. One man, a would fill a Mason jar with grain, seal the and inject syringes filled with a liquid solution working to protect the sample After some finagling, he found that it worked. He of liquid spores by mail, along with instructions he began advertising this technique and of High Times magazine. While McPhearson was the early stages of the World Wide Web. to discover McPhearson and home mushroom fruiting bodies they were growing at home, In 1997, a teenager founded Shroomery.net, an online forum dedicated to information of psilocybin mushrooms. Other forums and the community growth continued to snowball. internet and its users have grown and changed, In recent years, there has been a movement mushrooms, which has begun to see some Denver, Colorado, decriminalized the substance, in June 2019 and January 2020. In 2020, a it the first state to decriminalize psilocybin America's first-ever licensed psilocybin where it quickly accumulated a waitlist of the legalization of psilocybin is primarily But what exactly are these posed Though there is still debate surrounding mounting evidence to suggest that it might debilitating mental health conditions such In 2022, a study was published in carried out by the London-based COMPASS reported on the subject. In the study, at least two antidepressants with little After taking the drug, they experienced then were permitted to leave the clinic once of psilocybin (along with therapy) was shown In a King's College press release, senior James Rucker spoke on the study, saying, for treatment-resistant depression in comparing it both to placebo Flaws in the research study were such as Ravi Sad at the University College London were not an equal number of &quot;severely depressed&quot; This was not the only study of its kind, administered in one or two doses in a positive effect on treatment-resistant Administration to designate psilocybin which will allow additional research into the described this as a &quot;significant milestone for According to CNN, neurologist Richard Isaacson of for Brain Health at Florida Atlantic University of the drug, &quot;The data are strong from depression most painful conditions I'm aware of... I'm because of the relatively good safety profile in rigorous double-blinded clinical trials. Then on this and felt better' to 'Try this and you But how, exactly, might a substance and festivals in the desert work to Well, part of that magic might lie in and serotonin. It might increase the levels similar to how selective serotonin work. Pharmacologist Brian Roth of the reported that scientists can see changes &quot;within Others, like David Nutt, director of the Brain Sciences at Imperial College London, brain caused by psychedelics can disrupt depression. In his words, &quot;Critical and thinking is more flexible. That's why the Nutt also described an increase in &quot;branching of neuroplasticity.&quot; He continued, &quot;You shake up and then you lay down those positive circuits We can't talk about medical mushrooms without fast. Microdosing refers to taking extremely times a week, something around 0.1 to 0.3 to induce a proper trip. There have yet to be the same potential benefits, and some attribute to the placebo effect. However, some scientists Of course, no mind-altering substance comes in some cases, be linked to psychotic episodes and related to the stereotypical &quot;bad trip.&quot; This of schizophrenia or any disorders associated psilocybin tends to screen for and exclude those as those with a personal history of psychosis, A bad trip can also trigger a one that can linger long after the trip likelihood of long-term consequences from a from Johns Hopkins University Department attempted to measure the enduring positive and individuals. They found that thirty-nine percent one of the five most challenging experiences experienced long-term benefits from All in all, the jury is still out on the future for some and may be harmful to others, and every once in a while to better appreciate the research will tell what else will become of them Now check out "What Happens To Your Body