Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. And today we are going to be comfortable, but it will be pretty speaking, anything could become a black hole, space. That's right, you, me, this camera - as a &quot;Schwarzschild radius.&quot; A tiny, tiny amount mass of the object into, its density would be so great that not even light could escape If you were to compress Mount Everest into have a black hole. And if you were to compress you would have a black hole. But, fortunately for us, there is no known But a star, many, many, many times larger radius, and when it runs out of fuel and can to a single, infinitesimally-small point known Its density will be infinite and so its nothing can escape, not even light. But enough about ways black holes form, let's it look like from the outside? Well, we know Stars behind our Sun will actually appear Earth, because the Sun's gravitational field When it comes to the gravitational fields for that matter, a black hole, the effect behind them is significantly distorted, As seen from Earth, the blue galaxy behind a fun house mirror. So, rather than appearing a smudge all the way around the red galaxy. This is known as &quot;gravitational lensing.&quot; hole with a galaxy millions of lightyears of the black hole's &quot;suck,&quot; but the light as the galaxy passes behind the black hole distorted. Now here's a really fun demonstration. What if the Earth were to orbit around a black would look normal at first, but as soon as hole's gravitational field would warp the this. For the sake of simplicity, let's jump into a charge and isn't moving. And, also, isn't just there on its own. As we approach, the distortion of the sky portion of our field of view looking forward At this point, where half of our field of have reached the &quot;Photon Sphere.&quot; At this point, light is not going to necessarily necessarily leave it either. Instead, at this actually orbit the black hole. If you were to stop here for a moment and see the back of your own head, because light travel all the way around the sphere of the A gravitational field not only warps space, purposes here on Earth, we never have to worry would be so strong that an observer standing, something quite strange. They wouldn't see they would see your approach become slower, a point known as the event-horizon. This is a point in space where, once crossed, that light can no longer escape. And, so, that would be where your journey ended. You coming off your body becoming increasingly They would never see you cross the event-horizon. But for you, of course, everything would seem that horizon to your now, inevitable, death. singularity, your view of the entire universe point in space behind you. If the black hole we're jumping into was large at that event horizon. We'll know that we're pretty much over, but it might take us hours to hurt. Why would they hurt? Well, the closer you get difference in gravitational pull is across to the singularity would be pulled more strongly body would be stretched toward the singularity. don't usually call it stretching, they call Once you reach this point, you would be dead. stretched apart, and when they got to the would happen. Perhaps they would completely physics or maybe they would reappear elsewhere or spinning black hole might actually create across space faster than light. Not in any in a way that takes advantage of the universe's For instance, if I wanted to get from this distance. But, theoretically, a wormhole would Now, the two points are right next to each instantaneously. But, again, this is all theoretical. Luckily, holes right here on Earth. Enter the &quot;Dumbhole.&quot; Just as a black hole does not permit light hole. It won't allow sound to escape. It doesn't have been able to create Dumbholes in laboratories of sound. A lot of progress still needs to be made in may be able to learn an amazing amount of looking at how sound is treated in a Dumbhole. Now here's another good question: What would say, toward the Sun? Well, surprisingly, you up toward you. No, no, no. In fact, initially, away from you. Why? Because your field of be able to see stuff almost behind you. As you sit there, not moving yet, looking behind you. But, if you travel the speed of coming from things behind you. As you reached like this, concentrating the stuff in the But where are you in the universe? Or, here's the universe? Well, this might sound crazy, &quot;Cosmological Principle.&quot; No matter where seem to be moving away from you, expanding, The universe is expanding, but not like a inside it. Instead, it's as if we are the bunch of dots on a balloon and then blow it other at the same rate. And, on the surface Take a look at these two layers. They are a 5% expansion of the bottom layer. Let's say that you live on one of these dots, moving away from. Well, watch what happens Boom. It looks like the center of the expansion. a dot to be the frame of reference, it immediately So, while dying in a black hole would be lonely, the sky think instead about this. No matter friends or your parents, you really, Finally, what if our universe was a googolplex But, if it was, it would be so voluminous for there not to be an exact copy of you somewhere I highly suggest that you click right there It's part of the YouTube original channel's, amazing, they're my favorite kind of geeks. stuff, and if you like math, And as always, thanks for watching.