Hey dude. My name's Gilbert. Gilbert The Grape. Yeah the name was my dad's idea... Anyway, today I'm going on an epic journey...through So, wanna watch? The trip starts as the human heads to the finds me in there. What else has he got here? A turkey sandwich, some yogurt, hmm! I see he's taken a bite of his sandwich. Oh! Now it's my turn! He's popped me into his mouth - it's Gotta be honest, it's pretty wet and warm The mouth is the gateway to the digestive That system is designed specifically to transform and help your cells grow and repair. So, once you grab the first bite of whatever machine. As you chew, food is broken up into pieces Saliva comes in handy as it mixes with food That way, your stomach doesn't have to digest By the way, here's a fun fact - the amount 2 medium-sized bathtubs! Almost a pool full of drool! It's really raining spit in here, ew! Whoa, I better watch out for these teeth! Wouldn't wanna end up like Turkey Boy over It's hard since this guy's using his tongue teeth. I don't really feel like becoming jam today, Down the chute we go! Weee!!! We're now heading into the throat - they Uh-oh, fork in the road. Which way do I go? Eenie meenie miney moe -looks like this Hang on, I think I took a wrong turn. Why is everything shaking? Aw, poor human is coughing like crazy - someone There we go, coming back up! Sorry, dude! Phew, that was close! Almost ended up in his lungs - that wouldn't Alright, I'm back on the road, so let's I've CORRECTLY turned into the swallowing esophagus. I like to call it the "food chute" but I'm getting kinda squooshed in here. Uh oh, how do I keep going down? Ah, I see. The muscles in the walls of this guy's esophagus of me. This is a process called peristalsis, and system. A couple seconds later, and we've now reached There's a muscle here that opens up to let back out into the esophagus. It's kinda like the TSA in a way. I'm just a tourist here, sir, please let Yay! I've passed through the valve and into the It reminds me of a sac and ... let me try Wow, that's a strong one - it's all I'm not surprised, actually. The stomach holds, mixes, and grinds the food Quite honestly, this doesn't look too ... oh That burns like crazy! Ooh, ooh, hot! I gotta get out of this stomach acid or else Sandwich over there! That's okay, I've come prepared! I brought this handy-dandy little device that'll Your food usually doesn't have this, but It's classified. I just have to push this button... There, now I can keep talking to you the whole Next stop - the small intestine! This long coiled snaky organ is made up of When I say long, I mean it - if you spread you need it to be coiled...and inside of you...), length! Yep, that's as long as a giraffe is tall...all I must say, it's pretty warm in here. Almost feels like a tropical resort, except Oh yeah, I'm protected in my little bubble, Bile is crucial to digest fat and take all your liver produces it. Your pancreas also helps the process with And that thing over there that looks like It's located under the liver and keeps bile Man, this thing really is coiled, huh? I'm getting kinda dizzy from the twists But no going back now - these contracting Looks like I'm already in the final section leg of my journey - the large intestine! Also known as the colon, it's a muscular Hold the phone. Shh. Do you hear that? I'm not alone. I'm surrounded. They're coming in closer. It's...It's...bacteria! There's tons of them in here! Uh-oh, is this person sick with some intestinal Nah, your intestines need good bacteria to so that your body can use them. Sup, peeps? Hey, what's that little dangly thing over Ah, that must be the appendix. It doesn't do much besides house bacteria It's also got some tissues that are useful But it's mostly a useless little thing, Hey, if your appendix gets inflamed, a doctor Really! Looks like this guy still has his. Good for you! Anyway, we're now in the large intestine, here. Had I not grabbed my fancy top-secret protective yellowish mush of waste. As these muscle contractions push me through out of me. My final form: stool. Yep, poo, do-do, #2, feces, whatever you like Still loads of bacteria all over the place. They're really hard at work, eh? Well, there can't be too little or too many like food intolerances. They also play a major role in your immunity, in your gut. Keep up the good work, guys! I'm on my way through the left colon. When it gets too full of stool, it decides can't hold it all by itself. It usually takes about 36 hours for what's to reach this point. But I've been speeding through this journey to do. So let's head to the rectum already. Geronimo!!! The rectum is a straight chamber that's It has special sensors, like this one or that something you should get rid of. They send a signal to the brain when stool That's about the time when a thought pops If the moment is right for you (that is, you ta-da! Your stool makes its exit. Buh-bye, pizza from yesterday's breakfast! What? No one else here has cold pizza for breakfast? Alright, then let me know down in the comments, Anyway, when the moment isn't exactly right contract. Those rectum sensors help too so that the a while. You should be happy your rectum and sphincters timing isn't good. Like when you're driving to work, on a date, But when you just can't resist the urge the anus, gives you a couple more minutes to the bathroom! Well, not sure if the human is ready, but Maybe I can hotwire these sensors to make Oh yeah, this guy is at work, isn't he? Um, this is gonna be awkward...Of course, a graceful manner. You wouldn't even recognize what was what! But as for me, Gilbert The Grape, I still let's hit the john! I'm outta here! Byeee! Well that was different. Hey, if you learned something new today, then friend! And here are some other cool videos I think Just click to the left or right, and stay