How many times have you entered a building After making content about Art Deco architecture One of the things I realized is how many people haven't seen it. More specifically they haven't seen the Which is a real shame. So rather than focus exclusively on the history Famous Art Deco skyscrapers in North America and arguably the world. The Guardian Building in the Detroit Financial District. Of course we have to start with the lobby. One of the first things you'll see when you walk It's on the wall directly across from the But it used to be even easier to see. Because originally, there wasn't a desk The desk was added some time after the building opened Though I'm not exactly sure when it happened. Still the mural remains a crucial piece in Primarily for two reasons. Its use of color and what it represents. For now we'll focus on the color. While it's typical for murals to be vibrant Nearly every part of the lobby could be described that way. Red, blue, and green are found everywhere The entire ceiling is covered in custom made Courtesy of the Rookwood Pottery Company in Cincinnati, Ohio. What makes the ceiling so impressive isn't But the different patterns and They work together to create a large cohesive pattern That's often compared to a Native American headdress. With the main part supposedly starting at the northern And the rest of it flowing across the ceiling. While I couldn't find anything from Wirt Confirming if this was truly a Native American headdress or not There are many Native American motifs used throughout the building. Not to mention the Native American motifs As well as their use in other Art Deco projects There are many themes that appear in the lobby Just in different forms. But color was the clear focus of this room At this point you might be wondering, why In the 1920s people were asking the same thing. Wirt Rowland addressed this in an article, Stating There are so many themes that But we do have more to see. So now it's time to walk through the gate After walking up a small set of stairs, we But was originally the main banking area. This used to be home to the Union Commerce And was where patrons went to talk to tellers to access their accounts. As you can probably notice, the colors are Mainly due to use of different materials. But there are still many elements designed At almost 6 stories tall, the mural on the It dominates the entire space And it's one of the first things you see when you enter the room. The mural depicts a map of the lower peninsula With a woman in the center of it. Within the map are different markers, representing As well as the regions they came Things like lumber, agriculture, and of course Both this mural and the one in the lobby were He poured tons of time and energy into this Hand painting the entire multi story mural. But that's not the only part of this room where All of the designs and patterns on the ceiling Though not by Ezra Winter. It took a crew of 10 painters to complete and cutting out the designs as well as leading Painting the ceiling was challenging not only But because of the material it's made of. It's made from layers of plaster, horse Which might sound kinda strange. But it's specifically done to absorb sound Because this was supposed to be a banking room. Eugenio and his crew were still able to make And decades later in the 80s It was his children and grandchildren that would restore his original work. The banking area has seen many changes over The addition of these lights to the ceiling The original windows being covered with tile And the conversion from teller desks to retail Yet the designs within this room are beautiful And we haven't talked about everything in Like the gate made out of Monel metal. It was custom made for this building, with It's staggering on its own, but it's topped One facing the banking area and the other facing the lobby. These were the two main rooms that I wanted to focus on Because they're the rooms that the public interacted with the most. Still we'll look at a few other rooms to Our first trip outside of the ground floor This was where Union Trust, the company that Held many of its meetings. From here you can see the other buildings Many of which were still here when the building opened in the 1920s. This room is full of examples of the detailed And provides a good opportunity to talk about Union Trust was founded in 1871, working in With things like trusts and land contract bonds. And to cement its legacy as an elite financial The company wanted a world class building to match it. This led to the building not only having an But subtle nods to Union Trust placed throughout it. Sadly the company collapsed in 1933, only And many of the call backs to the company Were lost through time, renovations, and different ownership changes. If you want a more in depth look at the company's Check out my video about the history of the Guardian Building. Besides the callbacks to the company The 6th floor is full of designs that you can spot nearly anywhere in the building. You may have already noticed, but the table, the walls And the doorknobs on this level all have the same geometric shape. It also makes appearances in the window frames The floors And many more places. This shape as well as the notched arch design Are used repeatedly throughout the building. Showing how much Wirt Rowland loved these shapes. The 6th floor boardroom is still used for Except it's primarily for the Wayne County Government which currently owns the building. And I actually didn't have a lot of time in there Because they were supposed to have a meeting. So that's gonna be the end of our trip to this room. After our stop on the 6th floor, we're taking After hopping on the elevator we go all the In this room we see more custom tiles This time courtesy of Flint Faience &amp; Tile in Flint, Michigan. But even compared to the 6th floor The room was cleared out when I was there I'm not sure what exactly was being worked on But typically this area is used for events. Originally it was the cafeteria for the employees. This room has been repurposed after the ownership And the original furniture was lost with it. Still the view here is amazing And it gets even better when we go to the roof. Only one floor up on the 33rd floor This roof actually used to be an open air observation deck. The observation deck has been closed for many Though I'm not sure when exactly this took place. There are multiple landmarks you can see Like the Ambassador Bridge to the Southwest The Renaissance Center to the southeast And the top of the Penobscot Building slightly northwest of here. Not to mention that you can see an up close view of the brick work on the Guardian Building itself. What you can also notice from here Is how the Guardian Building has two towers. The one in front of us in this photo is on the northern end And then there's a second one on the southern end. Up until the 1970s The Northern Tower was actually That was until the completion of the Renaissance Center. Still the view from here is amazing So it's a real shame it's not available to the public. Well that's gonna do it for us here on the roof And actually gonna be the end of our tour as a whole. Yes there are more rooms that I could cover, But these were the main parts of If you enjoyed this style of content Leave a like or subscribe just to let me know. Having that sort of feedback is important to me, especially for the things that I wanna do. But until the next video, I hope you're doing