Baldis basics in education and learning is a state-of-the-art fully 3d interactive funtime Educational game the teaches a slew of subjects from math to spelling you'll learn a lot meet baldies friends along the way Don't download this game. Once you anger Baldi, there's no turning back. And if he finds you look just trust me Okay, I'm warning you if you end up playing this avoid Baldi at all costs Hey guys, Dan here. Welcome back into another video And today we're playing a game that you guys really really want me to play This baldis basics warning in case you haven't figured out yet. This game is intended to be a horror game Okay, it's pretty spoopy. If you downloaded think it would be great edutainment for your kid or something Don't let them play it unless of course they enjoy horror games you have been warned, but I'm ready Education and learning, that's me You have three eyebrows what's going on what have you guys got me to play and why is the mouse sensitivity so low, uh, Let's put it here how to play. Oh my goodness This lives its comics and Ono's school is out. But your friend has a problem. He left all his note boos in school He doesn't have time to go back and get them because if he does he'll be late for eating practice okay, we need to go and find seven notebooks Baldy loves challenging his students with fun trivia problems whenever he can you just hope you Find a notebook you have to answer some questions answer all the three quickly and you won a prize Find all seven notebooks and exit the school to win now When when have we needed to find seven books or pages or paper objects before? That's right Slenderman. What's common between Baldy this guy and Slenderman? They're both bald Maybe they're related. Haha, right let's start What I'm so confused I can only move left and right I can't move up and down What I'm so confused is this a plant is that where this is supposed to be? Can I just leave let's just let's just get out of here. So we have items on the top. Right baldi. How's it going, bro? You are extremely well detailed the graphics in this game look like a windows screensaver that I used to have on my old computer It looks like an old screensaver that used to be on like really old computers Its weirds score rules when you follow the school rules, no running. No entering faculty. No eating no drinking No, escaping detention. No fourth wall breaks. No eating or drinking. That's a bit harsh. No Stop stop stop it $99, Oh They're classroom doors What about this one? They're exactly the same. There's a notebook. What are these things? It's so width. I can't move up and down Is that supposed to be a thing? Sorry right out of time to add more subject Okay, I'm not sure what's happening here 5 + 7 12 it's 12 right i's not going to be 12 is it? Yes, okay - Equals minus 1 is it minus 1? yes - -5 I exist. Yay. This is freaking me out, you know when something so weird Be quiet I got a cord to look at it bounce. Thank you. I Won't spend all at once Baldi, right? There's another notebook in here. This is I thought I came Yeah, I'm literally walking through an old Windows 97 computer, right? Are you ready for math more math math math math. I think you are let's go Sure, it's 9 and it's 13 It was How do you type I I can't type letters. I Get angrier for every problem you get wrong hot okay its face I don't get a pride Oh What is he doing Baldy Body where is this coming from here? I've got two notebooks now, so I should be able to go through these doors What is happening, oh it's the giant brooms No, stop get away. Get away get away what is Why have they put my drawing up? Ah? What? No Who are you? Who are you what's going on? He's coming near me quick Oh What kind of school is this? Why is he coming after me? I don't want him to catch me because I don't think he's I think he's a nice person What is happening, it's so creepy school faculty only. Oh, oh How do I can I hide in these I? i Can't even hide. Who's this dude? Who's that you it's a is that a cell phone this game? It's so weird, but it's so weird. I like it. Okay, I'm coming towards me There's a core in there. I'm going this could be bad news. Today's lesson how to eat cheese. Okay, I Want the course of though? Oh, I can run but my stamina doesn't come back. Okay, that's a problem What is happening What are you talk no Baldi leave me alone leave me alone. I'm running I'm running I'm running I Have to start again Get out of here. I don't even like you be gone. Oh my goodness, right so Do I do these again? three twelve Fifteen I exist again give me this Quarren that's zero and then fourteen How am I supposed to know what that is ah Geez there must be a way to get this right, but what would it even be zero? No, he's angry so this is where he starts hitting us with a stick, right Yep, there it is. Oh there is oh jeez. Okay. Okay. Okay. Where did I not go last time? I Purposefully not look this up at all. So I had no idea what to expect I don't My brain is fried I don't know what's going on something just moved at the end of the corridor and I have no idea what it was What's that a padlock a globe? It says exit I've got a yellow door lock it says exit but it's not doing anything and he's coming close place law here. Let's go. Let's go Okay, he's not actually that far away. We've got a yellow door lock I'm not sure what that's gonna do. If I'm sure we're gonna find out. Oh, there's another wait a second. There's another notebook Let's grab one. We need seven of these dug dab again and pay a hundred percent Anyone who dabs pays again, they get the baldi slap with the ruler solve math five five minus eight minus three for goodness sake What ten I hit every toy you open the haha. Oh my goodness. I'm gonna have to run really quick No, no, no, no. No, I didn't mean it. I didn't mean I didn't mean I didn't mean it baldi stop Stop this you you look like you could do with a wig so you can't go in every room But how do you answer the muddled up questions? Attention due to unknown reasons. I've absolutely nothing to have game design school faculty cannot currently see through windows. Please understand hi What? Okay, I think I could who's this? And what is this is this lunch? This is five guys 100% five guys We just got a B soda And I fired it Energy flavored zesty bar. Take this Baldy. Wait, I just ate it. Oh, it works Hopefully this is so close. He's making me freak out a little bit. Please remember to recycle your food never come out I've just wasted two items. I need 25 cents to make a phone call. Let's make a phone call What What Please refrain from using the phone. Well professor baldi's in the building It caused him to forget what he was doing a prevents him from hearing. Oh, oh So you can use the phone to get rid of him. That's quite cool Wow Let's go. We've got three out of seven. This is 10. This is 12. There must be a way to sort this out This is 1 3 9 2 4 for goodness sake What are you doing get off me get off me? Are you crazy man? It's a sweep from earlier. I'm running Oh, I don't like your friends your friends Disgust me. I'm definitely dead. I need rest. I'm definitely dead. I'm definitely dead. I'm definitely dead Nobody No Go Go. Yes During school faculty only room our detentions. Hey What's all your matches for you can support the thing the god of sweep My brain is melting This has information about everyone there's playtime lady Arts-and-crafts is we haven't even met you yet the sock puppet Baldi oh hello Are you coming in? I? Think he's coming in. I think he's coming in. I'm gonna die. Ah Oh, no guys. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead Baldi. Leave me alone. Oh, ah What does the telescope got to do with anything Wait a second. There's a number there one two question mark for six does that mean that's one of the answers? Hmm I forgot the number one - question mark was three one two, three, four five six No, yep. He's angry He's real angry, right? We need to always this way. He's this way the skipping-rope go is coming as well. Oh, geez So what we learnt so far that there are many crazy people inside this school Baldi likes to slap people. Oh, wait. Wait, give me this. Give me this. Give me this. We haven't been here yet So this will give us energy. I'm pretty sure What else is in here a? tape Baldi anti hearing and disorientating right Baldi. I'm here to give you this tape. Oh You can go through here Can you avoid that can they not come in here? That girl disappeared. This is great. Ah, stop that I do know one detention. I do know one detention Look a Homestar Runner reference solve maths - three I'm an idiot. I got it wrong three - four So if you are you designs get everyone wrong and then you have to just avoid him each time Is that what's supposed to happen and who is whistling? Oh there he is. Oh No, no, no, you can't come here I was trying out what it's over destroy Baldi. Don't don't come near me please Don't you freak me out on your hair is crazy, right? There's keys here for a lot to door and guessing but I don't know What kind of lock door I want to destroy a Baldi? I? Can't use it. I can't use it. I can't use the tape why I mean no No Why scissors? We got a telescope scissors and something else? I'm extremely confused But let me do this again and see if we explore anywhere else So at the beginning screen is one two question mark four six. What could the question mark be? one two three four six No Baldi, do you even have a brain in there? I think you're supposed to get that wrong I need to find the phone desperately. I need to learn where everything is. Oh great. It's this girl. Hello Let's jump some rope. Shall we we need to do five in a row. Otherwise Baldi will get us Leave you alone just leave me alone the phones there. Okay. Let's head to the phone Let's put the quarter in and then Baldy will leave us alone for a sec There's something else here as well There's someone we haven't met yet, but I'm not sure if it is there's another quarter in there as well Oh Baldi's noises disappeared. Okay, let's take the opportunity to do another notebook. We need seven of them three two one two four six He does he really here every door that we open is that the truth body is that the truth Is so weird right? Let's pay this phone This magical phone to get rid of him. No, I thought that was gonna get rid of baldi It didn't get rid of him at all. He's still coming closer. Where's that cassette tape? There are as the cassette tape wasn't there I really need one because then I can put the cassette tape in the tape machine and emptiness that actually helps me Shut up, let me out. Let me out. Let me out. Let me out. Let me out Let me out that actually saved my life. Haha. The tension is good for you. Oh, no, he's there. Let's go. Yeah. Oh my goodness The sweeps coming as well three four Five, let's go (Lol she got sweeped) i got detention as well Oh for running it's because I'm running and now I'm dead And now he's sweeping me Coming this coming us almost a dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I don't hear the sound. I Hate this game though the keys go back the only rooms in the halls What I wasn't even running. Why are you here? Why are you here? No baldi Leave me alone, please. Oh, There he is, beautiful chest, oh He hasn't captured me Hahaha you will never catch me Baldi look at your disgusting hands now, what am I supposed to do? Exactly, ah the tape, I found it. I need this body anti hearing and Disorienting I think I said that completely wrong But I need to find the phone now and then hopefully I can put the tape in Oh, jeez, there is no no. No. No, I don't wanna play with you No, you're the most annoying character. Get away from me. Oh, wait, what's this? Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this is a mailbox. I shall open it with my teeth You are crazy, sir. Absolutely. Crazy. Where's this phone? Where's this phone? Where's th- Where's the phone? Now he's gonna come and get me. Oh no. Oh No, oh no, don't get me I Need to learn all of the characters noises so I can figure out when each one is coming so I can do the thing I'm not supposed to do or not do that. You know what I mean phone that's running. Let's run if that guy finds me I'm gonna be so mad. I'm going I'm going I'm going there's no doors here. I need to pay the phone and See what happens Here we go Let me can put this in Call me No, no, I don't apply. Ah, I can't use this That's super weird. And Who is that at the end? Is that a hand? It's like a hand at the oh, no. Are you kidding me - why did you like me so much. Leave me alone I don't know what this tape does then I also have this soda Which fires something? But I'm not a hundred percent sure what it does. Oh great. He's right there He's literally right there. What are these keys? Can I fire this at you baldi baldi? baldi I'm gonna fire this at you and if it doesn't work, I'm dead Get out of here Punk I'm gonna get these keys. Yes, it works Principal's keys. Oh, geez, okay Where is the principal's office though? Oh that actually worked we're learning Who is the principal and where does he live? Hello. You can back off now. I'm not doing anything wrong I can't use on this it says exit though. This must be the end like right at the end Is this the law? This is not the law. Oh my goodness. I have a yellow door lock and principal's keys. So entering school faculty only rooms the hole This guy's a butt you go away Be gone So that guy can't see you coming out of a school faculty place. That makes sense. Where is the principal's office? I have his keys. I want to return them to him. That's all I want to do. I promise Yeah, there's definitely something at the end. Oh, it's the sock puppet. Hey, no running in the halls. No oh my go- haha I Literally, press shift for one second, and this dude gets me Okay So this was a great first exploration into baldis basics in education and learning YUM his stock Kerala tea, I don't know why a buddy has three eyebrows Because if that's a hair technically is not bold to be honest. Hope you enjoyed You guys asked for this. Anyway, if you want to see some more and you enjoyed this, please leave a like on this video That'd be great appreciated any help or ideas or suggestions and we're to use items where to go next would be Greatly helpful in the comments section down below. Let's work together to discover the weirdness of this game We have you enjoyed. Please do leave a big fat like can be greatly appreciated subscribe If you are brand new to join team TDM today or for daily videos, and I'll see you guys in the next one I'm gonna go have nightmares about Baldi and I'll see you soon Goodbye!