I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs, and My model is patterned after the English ship building techniques of the period. example, while also taking research from Vasa, and Spanish Galleons of the time to craft The Golden Hind is interesting not only because the world, but also because parts of its piracy of Spanish galleons, at which it largest Spanish treasure captured to that date. This is the early age of sail, when ships following coastlines or crossing large internal HMS Victory from 1765, which is closer to the you start to appreciate how sailing To give you a basic idea of her size, I've placed English males were 5 ft. 6 in. tall in this time Now, let's get into the details, starting as all thick beam at the very bottom of the vessel that Much of the structure is made of Oak shorter length timbers can be joined Cross-pieces called floors are and sandwiched on top by The stempost at the front, and the sternpost at the back To show some examples of how all these stempost into its individual timbers. scarf joints are made at the Iron spikes or nails fasten Timbers are either carved from or can be bent with various steam techniques. Plank boards are about 4 inches thick, and anywhere from 5 to 30 feet long. Wooden spikes called treenails are Now, the frame is extended with upward Interior planks enclose the frame. with special planks called Breast hooks fortify the bow. Decks have a dense network of Heavy brackets called knees Standing knees point upwards, and lodging knees lay sideways. and attach at the bottom through The mainmast is over 100 feet tall. We'll look Exterior planks are also built up are used to attach them to the structure. bits of old rope in between the planks, then from tree sap, to keep it from rotting. ship is called the hull. hull coatings to guard the vulnerable underwater era showing white coating, called &quot;white stuff&quot;, and sulfer. The hull was under constant attack creature, also barnacles, and other marine growth. a tumblehome hull, where the shape curves Now, having seen the frame and general structure the lowermost compartment, called the hold. to be added to offset the above-water weight. tons of ballast in the form of coastal rock Starting towards the front or Later ships put their cooking ovens higher up Some ships of this era show The oven is enclosed with brick, A large copper cauldron covers the top. and sailor had to make due with Smoke flows into the wooden Apart from cooking, the hold is Food supplies include bread, biscuit, Beer, for example, was issued At a crew size of 80 sailors, that's about one of part of the ship would be packed with storage. a well where water collects in the This so-called bilge water was often said to distrust sweet-smelling bilge water, There's a locker here which holds shot the idea is to keep such heavy items The hold is a dank, dark, claustrophobic Lanterns hold tallow candles, which Translucent material at the sides is made Moving upwards, we enter the orlop Here at the back of the boat, we see special away from the hold in these dry rooms. the central powder room, where gun Fire producing items like lantern the other side of the ship for the same reason. anchor cables laid in coils for proper drying. items needed to keep the ship running, like Now, let's head up the ladder to the main deck, At the front, we see the very sturdy-built in place when the anchor is deployed. The cables run the length and from there through central Just behind the main mast, there's an A hollowed out elm trunk forms the outer pipe, The pump brake or handle has a long metal rod At the bottom of the pump, there's water flow in, but not out again. beneath the deck planks, and out through blocks There are fourteen large cannons, more These are the Saker model. with a 3 1/4 inch shot diameter, or caliber. can fire a 5 1/4 pound shot approximately using four pounds of black powder. positioning, or hauling the gun in The much thicker line around to absorb the cannon's incredible recoil. At the stern or back, there are These are 4 feet long and weigh between 200 - 400 pounds. They or nearly a mile, using 1/2 pound of gun powder. or companionway, up to the weather deck, which is There are two more Falcon guns at the sides. to the capstan below, and they Moving aft, we arrive at helm, Instead of the classic ship's wheel you a century later, this is the whipstaff. small sheltered cabin that opens views of the sails and rigging, and the outside. with a gimballed compass at one and a lantern at the other side. The whipstaff itself is a long pole that which allows the pole to rotate. The pole is attached to a long wooden arm with an arched beam for support. If even more steering angle is needed, the The rudder itself is attached to the called a gudgeon and pintle. and the gudgeon a hole, available space for proper attachment. we continue aft into the great cabin, which and upper raking crew members. called an open quarter gallery, that Heading now towards the front of the ship grating for ventilation, partial protection, The ship's boat rests here. be setup from the ship's overhead rigging in and out of the ship, or between decks. the forecastle. It didn't acquire is This chamber would be filled with Forward of this room, we arrive at the beakhead. Let's continue upwards to The forecastle deck has two swivel guns which are loaded with a removable chamber and fired with a lighted wick There's a rail here for belaying Heading aft, we arrive at the quarter deck. There are two more swivel guns here. There are ladders on the aft wall to the poop Below the poop deck, we see the captain's cabin, While we're on the subject of beds, the Hammocks didn't come into common use aboard so crew would have slept on mats With a solid understanding of the what makes her go - the masts, rigging, and sails. many of these lines are just repeating essential things out so it's easy to see what's what. the fore mast at the front, and mizzen mast at the rear. which extends from the main deck The two forward masts and components and the mizzen for balancing and steering. The fore and main masts have two A wooden block called the mast as well as the beams which support the mast where sailors could post up to defend the ship. slung high in the air need The standing rigging holds masts in and stays in front. generally pull at the front of the mast, even A set of deadeyes at each shroud provides Metal components and a short section of chain Sturdy chainwales or chain plates extend Some of the darker colored lines or to guard against wear and tear. is wound into the spiral gap, and finally, tightly bound with Shrouds extend up and around the mast top. shrouds so sailors can climb up to work the sails. wooden bar here to secure the top mast, It runs through a pulley or block at the fore mast The fore topmast stay has supporting rigging at The sails themselves are supported They ride, generally speaking, making this what's called square-rigged ship. or rigging that's intended to Foot ropes seen on later ships don't appear to had to straddle the yard, or the yard could Yards are far too heavy to be hoisted Ties at the yard pulleys called sheaves in the mast, In this case, a block with multiple with the knight below, and Here's how it looks in action. The line for hauling up the When not in use, the halyard is There's an extra sheave in which helps hoist the top Many of these components are removable, Back to the yard, to keep the heavy it's tied to a set of wooden rolling This is called a parrel. The ties at the center bring up and the lifts keep it steady side to side. control vertical yard rotation around Before we move on, here's a zoomed out view of The Mizzen yard's braces look a little different Lifts, braces, ties, and halyards might run through blocks attached to The spiritsail yard at the front, attached to Having seen the running rigging for using the fore main sail as our example. The sail is tied or &quot;bent&quot; to the If you can imagine how much force is placed it's clearer why each part of the sail must The lines at a single sail do get a bit intricate, each part easy to take in at a glance. and buntlines in the middle The sheet line at the back, position the sail's bottom corner. martnets keep sides in check, These particular side lines have a Still, its important that the sail keeps and doesn't flap excessively. well orchestrated procedures, the sail can be Zooming out, here are those same Notice how some lines from topsails run through And that's it! All of the As you can imagine, the decks of these vessels and &quot;learning the ropes&quot;, as they say, was Before our model can set sail, we need to raise the anchor. The example shown here is 12 1/2 feet weighing in at around 2,800 pounds - To haul the anchor back in, which is marked with a floating anchor As the ship sails toward the possibly from the deck above the heavy anchor cables as the capstan turns. many sailors on multiple decks if needed. rotate to lock the capstan in place. the water, cables were lowered and hooked to the anchor ring. the anchor up out of the water the side to fish the hanging end of the anchor Crane-like beams of this kind are and this is the fish davit. the ship preparing to set sail, let's have a look In 1577, many ships had already crossed the This map or chart is from 1543, for with straight lines between various ports and The red blotches indicate rocks Because of the way the earth spins, determining is possible by tracking the position of celestial These objects trace reliable paths across the Navigators used various devices to track If you use the ocean horizon as the baseline, in the sky objects should be at a known point, to get north to south location. observer ensures that the straight bar through the while the person holding the astrolabe rotates celestial object appears framed in the small The observer takes the By modern standards, these readings aren't very since clocks or watches of the period didn't work ships were lost, and navigators often had to go To complicate things even more, in this time could not be found at sea in the same way. so there's no way to get a reference from Instead, navigators used a technique called calculated guess. If you know how fast you're you can use the dividers with the distance Of course, even though your intended your actual heading at any moment use of changing wind directions. Let's see For speed, sailors throw a three-pointed log hopefully hold its position in the sea counted as they slide over the edge. sand glass at the same time. in a minute indicates the current speed. weight ensures the compass remains level and The compass card has a thin iron or steel contact with a bit of natural magnetic iron ore. from the bottom of the card case. six four-hour watches. There are half-hour and tended to. Bells or whistles sound every To keep track of time, direction, and At every half hour on a four-hour watch, a pin is with 8 pin holes in a line, Speed is tracked on the hour with speed extending left to right. At the end of the watch, this data Ocean depth is also a critical measurement. A which has bits of leather tied at Using all of these techniques, sailors despite the limitations of the time. out view of the whole vessel. history of many explorers and the brutal However, sailing technology was not progressed over millennia, with many incredible discoveries that made these