We have gazed upon the Moon with and named its craters as seas, but Welcome to science and Futurism with Isaac Arthur, Today we will be discussing if it could ever be Moon. To give it seas and sky and make it a The simple answer is yes, it can be done, though is will depend a lot on both your available Today we'll be discussing several different But let's begin by laying out some basic to doing it to the Moon, the advantages First, there's two basic camps of terraforming, and that's terraforming and para-terraforming. but para-terraforming tends to manifest of pressurized and breathable air, or artificial spectrum. There's also bioforming, which is when You might adjust everything's biology to be or more overtly, give humans and other mammals With very few exceptions, we should assume use a mix of all three options, both the final product. Even on earth we may opt and exact matches for Earth should be rare in the to use one of those options far more heavily For bioforming, you can probably cook up some airless vacuum with sufficient effort, even use silicon-based life in place of carbon. You a planet with a 27-hour day and slow its rotation we tend to view this as the active use of conditions. You might alter daylight by use by centrifugal force. An extreme version of that world like in The Matrix on some barren rock and rock in power collectors and robotic factories. spot for each planetary setup that varies by what make most economical or practical. And that is are something like a million planets in just this includes Pluto are the Major Planets, and that's Pluto is smaller and less massive than our Moon. massive than our Moon too but there are probably a the outer solar system and millions of minor In a future solar empire, every last one of and Earth will stand as the crown jewel, hub of even as we expand out into billions of stars in the stars will maintain some sort of lifeline experience and knowledge about how to make might and manpower to the interplanetary economy. resources you can commit to the project. If the to Earth, itself the center of a powerful then the sheer amount of muscle they can throw at no place is closer to us and easier for to the Moon much easier than Mars or Venus. Moon is only a bit over a second each way, not for the outer system, or years to neighboring controlled by people here on Earth. And while ones able to work fairly autonomously even the sheer advantage of a more automated industrial development enormously easier and gives you a The Moon's proximity to Earth and its low to launch not just interplanetary colonization, as bulk raw materials and fuel can be gotten energy cost of getting off Earth with its thick the Moon is likely to be heavily mined and home to and thus is likely to eventually have a lot livability, long before a place like Mars might. will be the first place we terraform, even if it thus might not be the first place to decently again, unless we find some decent twin to Earth in would also need a lot of para-terraforming, This hardly makes it easy and we should begin mentioning that it is also an advantage. The Moon levels of sunlight. Mercury, Venus, and the but most objects are further away, As such, the Moon is not just a place where more filtering of sunlight than our own Atmosphere two problems with that lighting. First, that if our air suddenly became transparent to all we would be burned badly. Second, the sun there is no dark side to the Moon except in the us here on Earth. The Moon orbits the Earth and once a month so that's how long its day is too. possible to unglue the Moon from its tidal locking and sky they would act like a lubricant against had to be exerted to keep the Moon at a 24 rises approximately with the square of its angular times faster, so it rotated every day, you are energy it has now but it's actually very tiny whereas Earth's is almost a million times higher, far lower mass and radius means it would still And indeed that once-a-day Moon's rotational produces every second, and only a small fraction it would need for tidal locking to reoccur if left once per day is entirely doable. This is arguably continuous technological effort to keep it from mirrors in shades in a 24-hour orbit of the Moon. difference with para-terraforming though, with the more immediately vulnerable to breakdown. A fleet and shades. As could some Kessler syndrome event would be likely to spin a planet or moon para-terraforming efforts might need regular a century or two after some collapse of an that planet de-terraforming. This is obviously a but I think a degree of vulnerability or and that its absence tends to be where we So could we spin the Moon up? do the same with Venus, to give it a day length cycle longer than its own year, but since we would need to give almost three-quarter's Earth Mars, at a tenth our mass and half our radius Energy for the same day length, and already so it already has about 95% of that energy. and angular momentum, by dropping comets on it to and methane. It would not be hard to coordinate momentum to Mars. That's no small task but if as well do it that way and get the free rotational to add spin means it impacts at a slightly lower and in the direction of existing spin. Less to subtract spin, would produce stronger impacts. rotation as a power source, by building a can add spin that way too, but must pay energy in. a planet, or Moon, and using that momentum When we think of exporting large amounts of raw we can imagine a large mass driver or add or subtract spin. Two opposing launchers adding when one launched and subtracting when right spin then keep it there. A directed energy pressure alone is not your best option. A beam isn't a great thing to hurl at a planet with an also work on an initially airless planet. with giant reflectors on them, or deflecting gravity or air constraints -- and use them or any other body for that matter. However, I launches so they added inertia. And a big mining civilization might be belching out entire megatons while receiving large amounts of other materials, In any event, the key notion there is that you are operations onto existing projects to save effort. changes done while terraforming planets, and effort too. Our vastly cheaper alternative is erecting a big solar shade and mirrors to bounce it down in a proper 24-hour pattern. This cool it down over a couple centuries and make day at Earth-level of intensity and warmth. lets you add more light of a given wavelength or to remove most of the harmful ultraviolet to be only a few micrometers thick, even though to the planet or Moon they are on, this is not a a hassle to repair and replace and be viewed as such shades might be large power collectors and power source for the people and industries below. power and a constant one, there's no night time so you could use your surplus power as your hours, to help spin that planet up, and when shades and mirrors and enjoy a natural day. infrastructure is likely to be a common feature many advantages and is relatively cheap to deploy. since the Moon's own L1 Lagrange point is with so you need to orbit them around the Moon at a for a period of one day. You would likely use and just give them some internal power collectors either bounce light away from the Moon or add away when in between the Moon and Sun. This the Moon to keep light out and I suspect you would that just had a big opaque circular shade on it approach is probably a good pick for Mercury due close your sun shade or mirror on that ring This is a decidedly clunky approach though, requirement to achieve proper spin, is why I think occur. Which would make for some impressive as Earth would cause a lot more tidal warping why it's tidally locked in the first place. through all our options for terraforming in the to skim over in our other terraforming videos like it applies more to the Moon. Alternatively, we around Mars - which is much easier than folks tend the same options can be applied to our Moon. terraforming the Moon, and that's the issue that its low gravity, and that combined with its lack very hard. Or rather having it keep an atmosphere to the Moon and dumped an atmosphere on it, it would be awful. We can't model that well enough to lifetimes before any appreciable drop occurred, it was on Mars of a few hundred million years. atmosphere and have to replace your atmosphere means you went from having 10,000 mega-freighters by to replenish miniscule losses. Alternatively centuries, I think that becomes unsustainable, and for a terraformed Moon. It also represents a lot on a lower gravity planet than on Earth, amount of air have less weight and generate less atmosphere as a result, and a thicker one in which would change the visual properties of Now the reality is this atmospheric loss issue mechanisms for atmospheric loss and they all or are hotter, or have no magnetosphere protecting is closer to the Sun than Mars and has it shine things, and has no magnetosphere of note. to dome over everything. As we saw recently in our to build diamond hard domes - diamond is just crystal clear, filter out harmful sunlight, and them sturdier than the steel armor on a battleship number of backup and emergency protocols to make a Which is part of the problem. I'm not sure you advantages they have if big and crystal clear. in a normal atmospheric depth, so that you would not only still get weather but even if a huge hole was punctured into it. higher than what is needed to hold particles of generally a few hundred meters per second and meters per second. Some particles will move faster very sharply, especially for heavier molecules What's mostly going to strip them off is high proton from the Sun ramming them at roughly a A strong magnetic field bends most of those all those collisions, and thus is even more Again, see that episode about making a though there we recommend deploying a solar and have the same problem as solar shades for use the alternative approach of a large orbital also serve as useful landing and launch platform. the solar shade and mirror approach too. artificial magnetosphere would be installed Earth might deploy one just to further cut down on dangerous radiation to those on space stations and one where if it breaks down you aren't in and neither are very tall and strong domes represent any sort of visually unpleasant effect. economy able to import air to replace that lost domes up. I think it would come down to the that was higher than maintaining domes. You would This would minimize energetic particles hitting and tear and cut down on losses from cracked or thin atmosphere above the domes anyway just from which get all their pressure from being a by weight of air like on earth, that when cracks being stripped off by solar wind very quickly atmosphere and pumped back down into domes. which is our last big problem. As we discussed in to artificially create black holes then you be it an asteroid or a modest planet like Mars power and add mass. You just surround it with a skip on doing this at the core in favor of placing the planet or Moon. We discussed black hole covers your gravity options in more detail. gravity on the Moon, which has 7.4% of Earth's and the Moon only has 1.2% of Earth's roughly 5 times what it has now. That's a lot of isn't even a thousandth of Jupiter's mass, and we which are all comparable to our Moon in size, Adding mass to the Moon would also raise tides engineering we're discussing, the increased to correct for compared to everything else. an atmosphere and one more like Earth's. magnetospheres this question comes is biologically adaptable. If it is, I suspect We know zero gravity is bad for our health, we much is enough, but we tend to assume the Moon's other terrestrial flora and fauna, though that they laughed at redwoods. This is an example where large change in how ecosystems work in low gravity episode for discussion of that, but as a simple if your trees are taller and flying is easier, and springing step takes longer to lower your foot predator-prey relationship might change massively This is where bioforming might be a better terraforming options. You genetically tweak re-balance your ecosystems. As we mentioned, have its own unique blend of terraforming, and which might change at any time. A given planet to make policy decisions on terraforming and better. It's a lot harder to complain if one of it is to if they're mass altering genetics putting a black hole in your planet. most larger bodies like the Moon, Mars, or wide terraforming operation, rather than that they will also have developed multiple sub-divisions with different opinions than their That time, intent, and willpower equation as while it might seem like a monumental task from Venus or the outer solar system, and many it is in some ways easier to ship that than in 100 quadrillion tons of water to give then that's something like a trillion oil tanker arriving every single second of every single day, All the while folks who might have been building having second thoughts about how much you really depth. Though with Earth hanging huge in their they might have that as a constant reminder It's a long term project but in a civilization in and which would likely see the Moon second settlement era only to Earth, I think the maintain willpower simply because radical life survived from the earlier days who still others might be quite used to the lower gravity and prefer dwelling underground anyway. They generations might push the project once more Inevitably the question comes down to how and how Earth-like your descendants want they've adjusted too. Time will tell where the those descendants will shift as the physical capabilities of technology to reshape a world, will all help determine the fate of our Moon we saw today the many ways the Moon might And for my part, I think a day will come the sky and see another sky, of white We were discussing the differences between and part of that line between them is their sabotage, or attack, and we're seeing more and is to cyberattacks and ransomware. This cases just using two-factor authentication, not Networks, like NordVPN, will keep you safe. different secure servers around the world while every right to your privacy, websites are not many sell it and even good actors can exposing you to attack and fraud. Let NordVPN be easy to use and intuitive interface that you guarantee at https://nordvpn.com/IsaacArthur. Proxy Extensions, that lets easily control which split tunneling, so you can log into your bank with the IP of the VPN server you're using. And browsers, including loaned and borrowed devices. to https://nordvpn.com/IsaacArthur and try it out So that wraps us up for today but we have February 25th, on the topic of Vacuum Trains and be finishing the month on February 29th, as we carrying people to new worlds that will carry where we'll head back to the dawn of time continue our discussion of terraforming and what sorts of challenges future civilizations should be terraformed and to what degree. other episodes come out, make sure to hit the can also help support the show on Patreon, and you can see those options by visiting also catch all of SFIA's episodes early and along with hours of bonus content like Topopolis: As always, thanks for watching,