This is Sara and here's Katie. They are roommates and this Halloween they Come along and learn 12 cool ideas on how any other day. It's Halloween! Here's an epic idea on how to prank your siblings Take any balloon of your choice and blow it Now grab a permanent marker and draw on a You can be naughty and draw a super scary to go for a nice smiley one. Seeing a close up of these big eyes and mouth If you want the balloon face to be even more of colorful permanent markers. This is perfect so let the prank wars begin! Silently enter your friend's room while they're Attach a string to the balloon and using a Leave the balloon hanging right above your thing they see when they wake up! To make the good morning surprise even more slippers to the floor with a piece of a duct Finally, grab red acrylic paint and apply What a nice set of good morning surprises Psst. Ouch! Argh! What?! Morning! -Good morning! Hey do you need a bathroom? I really want to take a shower. Yes, I do need a bathroom! Alright, it's payback time! Take all the towels in the bathroom and hide where your friend won't be able to find them. Grab a white towel and red acrylic paint. Unfold the towel and squeeze a generous amount Rub the hands together to evenly distribute Now press your hands on the towel and you So cool and scary - that's exactly what The terrifying towel is all done so let's Bathroom's free. Ok, thanks! Ew! A very easy, but really funny prank is to on the bathroom or kitchen faucet. When your roommate or friend will want to I hate you! I love you too, Mwah. Do you still need bathroom? I got to brush my teeth. Sure, it's all yours. That was so thoughtful, really. I know, you have a smart roommate. Seriously!? I got you! Hey should we watch some scary movies tonight? Sure, perfect. I can bake some cupcakes. That would be awesome. Of course it's going to be more than awesome. Of course these won't be the usual yummy and When there are prank wars, prank cupcakes You can make these delicious treats from scratch premade mixture. Once your batter is ready, take a baking tray These are so pretty - red, with a bunch Perfect for Halloween. Fill the liners with your cupcake mixture. Don't pour in too much - about half way or Bake your cupcakes and when they've cooled This is when you transform the yummy cupcakes Grab a toothpaste and squeeze it on top these Make a nice little swirl so it looks extra I mean check this out! It seems so tasty! Toothpaste looks exactly like white frosting Of course, you need to add some sprinkles Voila these cupcakes look so yummy and they smell delicious so they are ready to be served! Cupcakes are ready! Mm... these looks delicious! Ew! What is this you're so mean! Got you, I got you! I'm going to make us popcorn, you're impossible! You didn't expect this to be a normal tasty Well one portion will be normal, but your surprise inside. Take a little cup and pop in a bit of salt, Stir well until combined and you're left with Load a bit of that awfulness on a spoon and cup shape. Mm... this is going to taste divine! Oh, I love that movie! Yeah, it's my favorite too! Did you put something in there!? That's disgusting! You should see your face. I hate you! I'm the best pranker woohoo. Trick or treaters! Remember what happened last year? Hello! You can pick whatever you like! Of course I remember what happened last year. That's why I prepared this. What?! You made him cake pops? Yup, but they are special cake pops! To make a special cake pop grab a brussels Now dip your awesome veggie pop in some melted Roll it back and forth to cover the brussels Finally you want to decorate the cake pop irresistible. Brussels sprouts plus chocolate - what a Not really but that's why it's perfect for Place these beautiful creations on a cake or enemies! You're the best! I know! Hi! Creative costume this year. Enjoy! I bet he's enjoying his cake pops! I know! I'd love to see his face! Yeah! Alright, today was fun, but I'm going to get Okay. Prank wars are not over just yet! For the scary shower prank all you have to the shower head. Now take some food coloring or acrylic paint in the opening on one side. Screw the hose back to where it's supposed a shower is in for a big surprise. I hate your pranks! Well good that today's over. You wish it was over. Who wouldn't be terrified when seeing a big This prank is so realistic and petrifying Simply stick a big fake spider inside a lamp When your friend, sibling or roommate turns There's a spider! There's a huge spider! Are you sure it's a real one? You're crazy! Auch! Goodnight! Hope you guys liked the video and if you did, bell button down bellow. I'm gonna give you 3 seconds so you can do OK. 3, 2, 1... Now you're the part of the sarties coolest squad out there. If you love Halloween and you love food, you out of candy, where I show you a bunch of Thank you so much for watching guys, I love Boo!