Now we're getting, uh, a slightly higher rated opponent. And again we have white. Okay, so we're going to start with E four. And we're rated 1333. Good rating. And we're facing the Scandinavian. Great. The first time, I think, in the speed run that we have faced a scandal. Correct me if I'm wrong. Of course, the move move is he takes D five and night F six. This is like the poor man Scandy. I think it might be called the Portuguese. Well, there is a line here that's called the Portuguese gambit. This is not it. This is again but technically, yes, but White is not supposed to keep the extra pawn. So, first of all, you might ask, well, why not? Why not simply C two? C four. So the reason is that black responds with C six. And it's important to have command of basic positional principles to even understand how this sacrifice works. After C six, white can transpose to the pan off car O'Connell show you after the game. Or white can play D, take Csync, which is the greedy approach, but in the resulting position, again, I'll show you the position after the game. Black's got massive control over the center, in particular, a stronghold on D four. And White's got a terrible lightscored bishop that's just biting on the C four pawn. So there's a variety of factors that give Black tremendous compensation for the pawn. And so the line that you might have seen me play in blitz, actually, my coach taught me this line years and years ago. It served me very well. It's easy to learn and it's cool. It demonstrates some positional principles. We start by checking on B five, which is kind of weird. It's weird that the first move we make is with the Bishop. But, uh, the check itself should make sense to you. It's the developing move with tempo. And obviously, if Black plays C six now, then of course, we play DC. And we haven't pushed the seep on up to C Four. So that makes no sense for Black. Black can cover the check in one of two ways. There is night B to D seven here, which is a viable move, but most people go Bishop D seven. And then the idea is, hey, that Bishop on D seven. Is it well placed? Well, absolutely not. It's depriving the B eight knight of a square. It's cutting the contact between Black's queen and the center. It's just standing in the middle of absolutely everything. And that Bishop absolutely sucks. We should leave it there. Right. And this is kind of the idea of provoking a particular move that ends up being counterproductive to the opponent. Now, you might logically then, reason that we should play Bishop back to C Four if we're already moving the Bishop. Well, perhaps we should defend the pawn while we're at it. And I'll show you some theory after the game. But Bishop C four is not the move I was taught. It is a reasonable move. But after bishop c four, it allows Bishop to g four. That's the problem. And bishop to g four. Well, what does it do? It attacks the Queen. It puts the Bishop on a better square. And while we can play, uh, F three there, that's not a move you want to be making in the opening. And we might also not be able to keep our extra pawn on D five. So how do we circumvent that? Well, a lot of you guys are not fully understanding the point of what I just said. You're proposing, queen e two or a four? And these are moves which give Black a way out, right? They allow the Bishop trade. They allow Black to eradicate this awkward piece on D seven. So we actually physically need to move the Bishop away, and we move it to E two in order to stop Bishop G four. And that was a very kind of verbose explanation of this line. But I'm trying to lay the groundwork so that you don't forget why this move is played, because this is an easy move to to butcher. Okay, so the idea is to stop Bishop G four. And the idea of moving the Bishop at all is so that after a move like a four, black doesn't rid himself of this awkward piece by agreeing to the Bishop trade and then taking on D five, let's say, with the Queen. Now, Queen E Two does prevent the immediate Bishop takes B five, because this is a fork. But after Queen E two, white would play or, uh, Black would play just Knight takes D five, right? And ask you what you're doing on B Five. So we continue by occupying the center with our pawn. We play d four. And it's important to start with D four, because if you play the slightly sloppy Knight F three, you allow the extra option of the Night jumping into F four, and suddenly, like, the Bishop is under fire and G two is under fire. So we should prevent that and grab the center at the same time. Now, you would be correct if you're kind of assuming that we're going to place C four. We're going to do that. We don't have to do that immediately. That move is not going to be taken away from us. But C Four is going to come, and it's going to push the Night away from D five, and we're going to have nice development and better central control and why it's going to have a small but stable advantage that's going to be the roadmap in this position. Now, we should start here with a simple developing move. Let's get the Night out to F three and then actually let's castle. And only then I think we should play C four. Although, uh, conversely, you could say here we're giving Black actually an extra option. It's not like, scary, but Black can play bishop F Eight to D six, intending to meet C Four with knight to F uh, four. So that is an option that we've provided to Black. But it's we'll find a way around it. We don't have to play. C four against Bishop. D six. So our next move likely to be castles and then C Four and knight C three. And the development in this line is very simple, but I like the way our opponent is handling this. C Five is a good move. Black contests the center, and Black basically forces our hand. Right. I just said that our next move is going to be to Castle. And castling here is fine, but I think the opportune moment has come to play. What move? We should try to meet Black in the center. We shouldn't just give Black free reign in the center. We should try to fight for the center. And we should do it by playing C Four. Let's knock the night out immediately. If we castle instead, Black will take on C Four and then simply go night C six. And by the time we go C Four, black might have some weird tactics going on that might make C Four less effective. So let's do it now while Black still hasn't completed their development, and then, uh, we'll castle and proceed with our development ourselves. Okay, so if night before, then we can just play A three, that's not dangerous. There are some lines in, like, the Alokine and Scandi where if the, uh, lights go Bishop is on F five, then night B Four is actually a very unpleasant move to face because it threatens to fork Blackbase night F six. Okay, well, again, we have alternatives here. We can play night night to C Three, which we're going to play. We can castle. That's also possible. Now, the move D Five might look very appealing. Oh, let's push the pawn down, create a passer. But D Five is actually totally innocuous because Black and Trade. And if you have a pass pawn that's isolated this early in the game, it's likely to be a liability. It's not actually going anywhere because Black can blockade it by putting the dark squid Bishop on D six. So instead of hastily rushing forward, let's keep the tension by developing our pieces and play Nt three. And obviously, CD we recapture with the knight. Right. Recapturing with the Queen just doesn't make much sense, uh, because it walks right into night C six. What are we, scandy players? John Bretha would recommend Queen 64 and then Queen H Four, but we're keeping things principled, and we're playing by the book. Okay. Night. C six. Now, an important rule that I have echoed, uh, already many times in the speedrun is just because throughout all of the speedruns is just because an idea doesn't work in one position doesn't mean you should rule it out in another. Right. Circumstances and chess change very quickly. Like a single move can make an idea suddenly work. It can bring an idea up from the dead. And this is a great example of that right now. D Five, it makes perfect sense to play this move because this is the way that we keep the initiative going. It's a tempo move. It attacks the night. But most importantly, it doesn't give Black the time that he needs to put his pants on with Bishop D Six. Right? Because by the time Black plays that move well, first of all, we can prevent Black from playing that move by doing what what development move is going to prevent bishop D Six? Well, it's obviously the move Bishop F Four, which we could throw in, and that's the move we want to play anyway. And you might say, well, why is it important that we're preventing Bishop D Six? Well, that's because Bishop D Six is the only way to blockade this past pawn. So, if you can imagine, after Bishop F Four, bishop E Bishop is literally almost trapped. So at this point, the past pawn has suddenly become a great asset. 94 makes no sense. That just blunders upon. We have two attackers on the D Four square. So immediately our opponent reacts in a panicked way to the pressure and blunders upon. Right? This is how quickly you can get players to crumble if you play principled openings and you just follow the freaking rules, you know. So Black now has to tread very carefully because, again, Bishop B Seven, we drive the pond down to D six. He goes. Bishop B four. That's a good move. Now, what should we do here? Should we go? D six. Well, we can play D Six, but D Six seems a lot less impressive when it doesn't gain a tempo or drive the bishop back. I actually don't like D Six because of this weird move, queen B six. And the idea should be clear. You're trying to force a queen trade. And then the pawn is without a guardian and Black is coming in with 94. That seems too concrete. We should just castle and we shouldn't play A three, right? I would draw a parallel with the E four B six game. It's in the previous speedrun video or two videos ago, I guess, where we don't need to deal with the pin. By forcibly chasing the bishop away. We can just take the sting out of it by castling. Right now, the knight can move. And what we ultimately want is for Black to take on C Three himself, uh, because that loses a tempo in comparison with a three. Another very interesting, subtle point I think you guys will enjoy. If we play A three here, we take away the A three square from our bishop, and you might say, well, how is the bishop ever going to get that square? Well, guess what? If Black takes on c three himself. Then after BC, our dark squared, bishop actually has a very nice developing post on a three, which we don't really want to take away with the pawn. And that's an example of a super minor positional point that I would incorporate into my thinking if I'm, let's say, a GM, right? You'd make these small observations like, oh, I don't want to play a three because maybe I'll need that square for one of my minor pieces five moves later. I don't know. But you try to play with maximum flexibility and make the least amount of commitments possible, and you continue doing that in this position by developing your pieces. Right. The best way to make good moves without committing is just to develop. So what developing move M remains? Well, it's to develop the dark squid. Bishop, where should we put it? Well, that's pretty obvious from this position, bishop G Five, as it did in the previous million games. Uh, and we seem to be doing this, like, with both colors every game, right? This pin is super underrated. It's actually an incredibly dangerous pin in most situations where Black is Castle of Kingside, and it's even more dangerous here because the queen is pressuring the knight, and the 94 is a huge threat as well. And let's not forget that Bishop E Seven, which I've previously pointed out is a way to take the sting out of the pin, fails in this position to D. Okay? H Six. Well, again, we can trade. We can play bishop takes F six. But it's a little bit early to trade queens here, because trading queens really relieves the pressure on Black's position. If we were a piece up, if the bishop wasn't on before, I would advocate an approach of simplification. But when you're a pawn up, uh, that rule kind of goes out the window. In many cases, when you're a pawn up, you actually don't want to trade queens when you're a piece up, in most cases, a queen trade does help you simplify the position. So we just keep the tension with Bishop H four. And if Black plays G five, well, that is an amazing thing to provoke in this position, which already sucks for Black. Imagine if Black also weakens the knight and weakens the king permanently. That's just going to be too much to handle. And, of course, Bishop B seven is played nicely. Walking into our idea, and what I love is that the past pawn ends up deciding the game. The game is not decided if Black finds a small, tricky move, but then we can respond with an accurate move of our own and end the game. So what tricky idea does Black have here? And I think our opponent is likely to play this move. So notice that the queens are in an X ray. Well, queen B Six, a mirror white can just take the queen and take the bishop, right? That's not very tricky. I'm talking about bishop c six. Anytime the queens are in a file, you're always looking for tactics that try to exploit the undefended nature of one of the queens. So bishop c six precludes c takes c seven. That gives up the queen on d four for insufficient material. What should we do against bishop c six? And there is a mopois here, as my 6th grade math teacher would say, most popular wrong answer. There's a move which looks surface level tempting, but then there is a move which actually wins the game. And let's see if anybody falls for the tempting move. Nobody's falling for the tempting move. I love seeing this. To me, c five might be a temptation, right? Oh, let's connect the pawns, because I remember from the speedrun that the best way to defend a pawn is with another pawn. But concrete considerations always take precedent over these general rules. You're trying to make a move that protects the Queen and protects the pawn at the same time. And the move that satisfies those constraints is rook eight to d one, and that ends the game immediately. We won't need to play it because it renews the threat of de, and it keeps the bishop trapped. Queen takes d six, the most popular on answer to be avoided at all times. And the game is essentially over. We've won a minor piece, and we also stand to trade queens very shortly because black essentially has no way of avoiding the Queen trade. And the Queen trade is going to really simplify things and help us win fast and easily. Black has a couple of other moves. I guess queen e eight would be a way to avoid the Queen trade, but that's not serious. Okay, so we can do a million different things here to win. I won't belabor the point. We have a, uh, really pretty and very elegant tactical idea, though, if we want to win a second piece. I just saw this. So it starts with a move that you should want to play anyway. There is a move that you should want to play, and you should want to play it because it clearly induces weaknesses in black's position, and it simplifies the position, so it checks off more than one box. What am I talking about? Well, it's the move bishop takes f six, noticing, of course, that the queen cannot recapture because the queen takes d seven. So bishop f six, black, has to play GF, and that creates massive weaknesses on black's kingside. But let's be more specific. How does it change the kingside pawn structure? Well, you might think and say the g seven pawn moves to f six. That's all that's happened. What is the consequence of that? What is the result of that? Well, the result of that is that the g file has opened up. So there has appeared a new possibility. Queen d six to g three. Check. But playing that move immediately would be kind of lame, right? Because then the king would just move over to H eight. But we should keep that in our pocket, and we should make what move? Before playing Queen G. Three. We combine again, several different factors in the position. You also know that the D file shit stuff is going down down the D file. You play rook eight at e one, and if the bishop moves, then the rook is x raying the queen, and the queen drops back to G three with check, and we win the queen on D eight. If black doesn't move the bishop, then we simply win the bishop. So that's how you construct a combination. And this is a combination. It doesn't involve any sacrifices, but it's a sequence of moves that, uh, has the aim of delivering checkmate or winning material, which is what, uh, I define personally as a combination. So, rook 80, D one hits the bishop seems to have nothing to do with the king, and yet it does. If the bishop moves, queen G three is a backward retreating discovered check against black's king. Little combination here, Pete. Combination, as they say in French. Does it matter which rook you move? Not here. No. Here you can move either. But rook 81 is more open. Now, rookie seven is a move you had to foresee. But, uh, the reason heavy pieces are bad defenders is because they're easy to attack. So, at this point, the move should just come naturally to you should notice that the bishop on D seven is hanging by a thread, right? It's on life support. So all you need to do is play knight to B five. This move really does play itself. If black takes the knight, you're spoiled for choice, but you can still play queen G three, check, winning the queen and then winning the rook on C seven. Of course, the simpler move is just to take the queen straight away. Also possible if black doesn't react within the rook. And if black moves the rook, we take the bishop, and we're up two minor pieces. So I will say that, of course, you could start with rook 81, and you would still be winning. But it's less precise after rook 81, bishop C six, right? You can't then say, oh, now let's take on F six, because then the queen can already capture because the bishop has moved away from the undefended square. So, order of operations here is very important. Another move that some people suggest here is knight to e four. Terrible move because black can actually take the night simultaneously hitting white's queen white is still winning after that by miracle. But it's not to be advised. Okay, nehel says, I didn't see how we were winning the bishop. Well, if the bishop doesn't move, then we just take it with our queen, right? Because we've got two attackers on the bishop. So either the bishop moves and we win the black queen. Or the bishop doesn't move and we win the bishop. Black reporting me as we speak. Well, this was a nice game. Yeah, this was a pretty, uh, lethal sequence of moves. And the decisive mistake, if we're speaking at a very high level now, of course, the decisive mistake was 94. And I'll talk more about this after the game. Let's actually finish the game in style. Let's make sure we're not, uh, jumping the gun here. And queen g three chuck is the most accurate move, opening up a discovery against the queen, which we take. Do we take the bishop? No, we take the rook on the next move, which is now hanging, it has lost the support of the queen, which we've captured. So everything falls here, and now we're actually winning the bishop. It's hilarious. We won the queen, then we won the rook, and then we're winning the bishop all in a row. Just decisive lethal crushing. All right, quick look over. Even though this was a pretty straightforward game, so we will separate queen takes d five. We won't talk about this right now. We'll face it again. Uh, I'm positive we'll face it again. Uh, and we'll be able to spend dedicated time on it. Night f six is a fundamentally different line. It's really not popular anymore. It's been played a lot by GMs, but black knows that he's worse, right? And white is a million ways here to cement the advantage. So you might analyze with stockbridge 15 and find that mission b five trick is not really the best move. I need to update my analysis of this line. I'm sharing thoughts from, like, 2011 or 2012, which is when I remember this from. But still, it's not going to ruin the advantage. So I will mention that if if black plays knight beat a d seven, the simplest the simplest sequence here is just to play d four. Knight takes d five, and knight f three. Just develop your frickin pieces, and if black plays a six, then you can drop the bishop back to this nice active square on d three. Okay? So this is, uh, a straightforward advantage, and after bishop d seven, we play bishop e two. Okay? So, of course, black should take the pawn on d five. And the next couple of moves were totally, uh, understandable, and they were valid by black. So c five, I actually like, knight f six is fine. And here things go completely haywire for black. Obviously, knight c six is just an incredibly careless move that walks into d five. Our opponent just forgets about this move correct. Would have been to take on d four to finally eliminate the tension. And only after knight takes d four is it time to develop the knight. And I think white is slightly better after he castles, but not that much. I mean, black intake and start simplifying, and white is a more pleasant position, a, uh, space advantage on the queen side. It's nice, but it really might not be the best way to punish the NITF six line. So another thing I forgot to point out is just to show you on the board why C four, C six, and DC is not the way to go. So white might be not worse here, but I actually think white is worse after knight takes C six. By the way, the best move here for white is to play D four and knight C three. And this transposes into the pawn of variation of the Karo Khan. It's a famous transposition pawn of variation happens takes takes D four nine, F six, nine, C three. The reason is because the same moves are played. They're just played in a different order, right? In one order, black plays D five, C, uh, six, and then D five, and the other black plays D five, and then C six. So it's not mind boggling that we get a transposition. But in this position, after knight F three, E five, I've talked about this type of position through the lens of a different line, where in the Sicilian, white plays F four. Now, does anybody remember what black's move is in this position? And speed Turkey? It's an interesting question. Let me get to it in a second. The move here is actually D five immediately striking ed five. We play Night, F six, C four, we play E six, and we get a very similar type of situation. So you can find my speedrun game on this line and listen to my explanation because it's the same thing. It's the same weakness of the square. It's the same bad bishop. And here you also have, uh, the really bad move, F four. So this is even worse for white. But comparatively, it's pretty simple. Blacks got D Four, blacks got Bishop coming out to G four, the other bishop coming out to C five. And after D three, black can actually just immediately strike with E four. Black can make this tactical and trade queens. And black still has a massive initiative in the end game. I mean, just look at this. Bishop E three, bishop F five, castles, queen side. Everything is coming out with tempo. And this is just nasty, nasty stuff, right? So don't do that. Now, Speed Turkey is asking how is it that bishop B five check gains a tempo, right, as compared to the immediate bishop B two? Well, the answer is basically, first of all, that here black S queen takes D five, which is an entire additional option. Second of all, black can make the clever move C six here, which is kind of annoying, right? Which which isn't as effective here. Here, if black plays C six, we take it. And after knight C six, the concrete difference is that we can actually play D four, right? And this move is a game changer because it occupies the center. If the Bishop is still on C A, then in this line, we can't go D Four because of knight takes D Four. So that's a very subtle reason. The Bishop D Seven is a positive provocation, but also and the main reason is that it precludes. It precludes the tempo move. Queen Takes D. Five. And as far as I know, White is still better here. So the answer is yes. You could play Bishop B Two first. But Bishop B five is slightly more accurate. It gives life more rope to hang himself. So it's concrete. It's concrete. In any case, after D Five, the game is very close to being over. That's how powerful this pawn is. Now, what should Black have done in this position? I actually think, amazingly enough, that 94 is the right idea. I think it's basically the right move. If Black tries to conserve material and play 97 okay, this just looks horrible. D Six has come in and Night B Five, and I feel like this is already winning for White. So that's kind of out of the question. Night B Four is another move, but here we can chase the night further and then still play D Six. And this pawn just looks like a beast. We can always support it with the Bishop. And in a line like this, I mean, come on. Night A Four actually traps the queen, which is totally vicious. Like, look at that. And bishop a four. Queen A Four is just a total destruction. And devastation cuts us off. Black, uh, is collapsing. Oh, Lord. So anytime White plays D Six, it just hails destruction in its wake. It wreaks havoc. So the idea to sack upon and develop is a good one and just file this away in your sort of mental cabinet. This is a common idea you sacrifice upon. What do you sacrifice? Sacrifice it for for the right to develop a piece to gain a tempo, like you're sacking for a tempo. And the tempo is used to get the Dark Squad Bishop out. So 94 is the top engine move, and as a result of the trade, it's Black to play, and Black gets the Bishop just in time to D Six. Now, obviously, White can trade it off with Bishop F four. It's plus minus. White is a pawn up. There's no compensation. Nobody's disputing that. But after the trade and the castle, Black can still defend. At least Black is castled, at least Black isn't. Checkmated. It's interesting, says Tube Disaster, that a lot of chess moves are to provoke bad moves by the opponent. Absolutely. That's a fascinating property of chess, how, as my friend used to call it, you're moving your opponent's pieces as well as yours, and that's an art to move your opponent's pieces onto the worst possible squares for them. So, anyways, this might have been the final chance. As it stood, Black inverted. The move order. And now if Black plays Ed, we actually might have ignored the pawn entirely and gone something like bishop G five just quickly completing the development. This looks like a terrifying position for Black. Just look at the pressure on all of the diagonals. Maybe the engine can hold this together, but in human games you often get something like this and White just wins a piece. So there were some move order issues, but I still think Ed was the best move. Once our opponent doesn't display a sense of urgency and we get our pieces out. Okay, the situation now is absolutely dire. The engine suggests to take on C three and to play some abstract move like rookie A. Just sit tight, try to go E Five. Black's position is crap. I mean, we can go rook A B one and we can go rook Fe one and we can bring the bishop to F three. I mean, white is just technically winning, no question about it. Okay? This was technically the way to survive after still rookie eight here is a move or bishop takes C three, but Bishop E 76 just loses the game. Again, we put so much pressure, our opponent collapses, and most uh, importantly, bishop C six. Rook A to D one is the crushing move because it renews the threat of bishop of D seven. And at the end of the day, we're just up a full piece. And I won't elaborate at length about how to win that endgame in the game. We didn't need to win an endgame because we spotted it the combination. We start by taking the night off the board, opening up the G file. We conclude by attacking the bishop, getting it to move, and discovering the check against Black's queen Brook C 795. And this speaks for itself. We take the queen, we take the rook, and we win the game. So a 22 move game, but a lot happens. We had an interesting opening discussion. I didn't delve too deeply into the theory of this line because it's so rare and because I, uh, might actually analyze it and recommend something different. But hopefully you got the point of this. Bishop B five. Bishop B two. Line. You understood the urgency of playing D four before nightFREE. You kind of got a general sense for this structure, which is always a positive way to further your understanding, right? Every structure, every correlation of pawns can happen in one of your games. And you're like, wait, hey, I know what the ideas are here. I know what I'm supposed to do. I'm going to go D. That's how you learn, right? You learn not just based on tactics, but you learn structures. And structures define plans, and plans can be repeated. Uh, so you shouldn't just think of this as an opening speeder, and you should think of this as something that's giving you ideas that you can use across many different types of openings. So last thing I'll say D five here. I talked about this. We don't want to go D Five before night C Six because it allows the Bishop to blockade us. And we haven't even won a pawn in contrast to that other line. So here, Black is actually totally fine. So it's very important to wait for Black to go 96. Okay, guys, I will conclude here. Um, I'm exhausted, but those were two awesome speedrun games. I hope you guys enjoyed them. Once again, thank you all, uh, for supporting me. The subscriptions on Twitch, YouTube, they help tremendously. This is my living. So thank you, everybody, for supporting hope you enjoyed hanging out, and I will see you guys tomorrow. Thank you, everybody, for watching. Have a good one. See you tomorrow. Bye.