Ladies and gentlemans, welcome to this plurals. In this episode I'll explain why why your feet aren't your foots, why more than one deer are still just two mooses aren't meese... they're actually I'll also help you avoid any verbal crises with vortices, media, data, and other such phenomena. The only criteria - to end your plural Now before I get into it, I just wanted to say to my channel since I posted my last video, which happened in the intervening time, so you can maybe please do hit that subscribe button now. a comment? Tell me about some of the weird or if you know another language, the ways in to learn more about all of this from In modern English we have one, nice, easy stick an S on the end. Or maybe an ES When a new noun comes along, we automatically why we're taking Ubers, posting So how come there are a load of words in English where the plural isn't just the same as Well there are lots of reasons, I can. To do so, I'm going to break the First up... OLD FASHIONED ONES An explanation for a lot of the unusual over from a time long past when English DID Old English, for example, had lots! Yes, you could just add an S. Here's the old English for eye. And But some words were pluralised by adding an N between the lot of us we have many TUNGAN. Or at And your neighbour may only have one And THAT is the only one of these Old English N Other Old English nouns were pluralised in by adding a letter, but by changing the It's something that will be familiar to speakers foot is "Fuss" but two feet are "Fuesser". You Just like one hand is a Hand but two hands are one man is ein Mann but many men are "Maenner!" Umlaut, which is also the name of the The fact that Old English also did this is the And why we say FEET instead of FOOTS, and GEESE and MICE instead of MOUSES! They all just change Another set of plurals that can be put down Children and Brethren. These came when there was a rekindled fashion for sticking It's kind of stupid, because these words were Childer was a plural of child, it didn't Umlaut plural of brother. But they slapped that we have brothers as well). Sistren was also 1300s in the Canterbury Tales and stayed in use There were actually an awful lot that have been displaced by S versions some people were saying shoen instead of shoes, So there you go. All of these things are a relic The next category of plurals I want to look at is THE ONES THAT STAY THE SAME There are more of these than If you catch one fish or a whole net If you have one sheep or a thousand You can have one deer or moose, and there are actually loads of others. Well this phenomenon is also down to Old three grammatical genders, masculine, feminine feminine and neuter. It's one of my other videos. It's well Did you notice anything about all of the animals. In Old English, animals were the way it pluralised nouns depending on their not changing the word at all. Neuter plurals And that practice of keeping them the Right - next category of KNIVES, HALVES, LIVES &amp; WIVES. For native speakers of English, the swapping is second nature. It seems so natural that we you know that it's actually roofs not rooves? But We don't normally swap consonants willy nilly we do it with knife and knives, hoof and Well one of the theories for this is just that the FS sound is awkward. It's common that mildly tricky to say gets softened or phased ...But we don't have a problem if he fluffs it up or she wolfs it down And that FS sound appears elsewhere, even So I don't really buy that idea. So what could Well, there is one other very simple to our ancestral language, Old English. In Old if it was at the start or the end of the word, woman. But when it came in the middle of the a voiced consonant - of which L is one - something Old English for the number seven is seofan. The Over time that v sound got transcribed as a v, and left us with the spellings of those plurals I told you it was quite a The next set of plurals we use in English, but are plurals we've pilfered from Latin and Greek. These include words that end with Such as STADIUM, which becomes STADIA ...although in almost all of these cases, speech - to us a regular English plural about stadiums and referendums and it's much An extra side note - for a few of these confused the plural for the singular. I've an "agendum". They call it an item on the agenda. calculation based on a single datum. We'd we often use the word data as if it's singular. weird than "let me show you these data", although Another set of Latin nouns we pluralise weirdly slamming an I on the end. So CACTUS, FOCUS and the standard English FOCUSES sounds a lot Octopuses. Okay let's get started on it. It's not octopi. It's octopodes. It's Speaking of Greek, by the way... plurals to which become crises and axes. There are also such as criterion and phenomenon, all from sexy X words like VORTEX, INDEX and MATRIX, So that's you Latin and your Greek. Onto our final set of unusual English I want to give a last shout-out to the handful of Italian - and made a complete mess of their PANINI to mean a single toasted sandwich. single sandwich is a PANINO. Watch out when eating graffiti as if it is singular. But in vandalism - or art - depending on your view. Don't listen to anyone who tells AND THERE WE GO! A thousand thankses to you enjoyed it, please hit the like and subscribe quite important. It means that you'll find out