The Bermuda Triangle is one of the most mysterious It covers approximately 500,000 square miles Bermuda, Puerto Rico, and Miami. Over the years, it has gained notoriety as disappearances. The explanations for these disappearances fields to time warps and even aliens. Believe it or not, there are other stranger We will explore some of them in this episode Than the Bermuda Triangle." 10. Superstition Mountains Located near Phoenix, Arizona, the Superstition The Apaches believe it holds a gateway to Maybe this is why there are reports of paranormal and voices and encounters with aliens and There is also a lot of lore about a secret Mountains. This mine is known as the Lost Dutchman Gold It is named after a German immigrant named Native Americans believe that "Tuar-Tums" Perhaps these creatures are responsible for of people who searched for the mine. The ghosts of these unfortunate treasure hunters 9. Mount Roraima, South America A gigantic flat-topped mountain with sheer out of a science fiction movie. Surrounded by Venezuela, Brazil, and Guyana, (2,772 meters) high. Approximately two billion years old, it is the world, and it has the reputation of being Some of the lore about Mount Roraima includes called "Di-Dis." While stone pinnacles, a crystal valley, and Roraima a prehistoric quality, no bizarre However, there have been some reports of high 8. Devil's Sea Located between the Philippines, Guam, and be the Bermuda Triangle of the Pacific. What makes the Devil's Sea weirder than and more colorful history. Around 1000 BCE, Chinese folklore attributed mythical dragons that grabbed ships to take To this day, the Devil's Sea is also known In the 1200s, Emperor Kublai Khan supposedly Devil's Sea in an attempt to conquer Japan. He probably fed a lot of sea dragons with these voyages. Or maybe the Japanese were right in believing sent Kublai Khan's ships and men to a watery 7. Kawah Ijen, Indonesia This killer volcano with unusual blue-hued The eerie electric blue glow of its lava at of its 3,281ft. (1 km) caldera lake give Kawah The colors of the lava and the lake may be form them are deadly. The sulfurous gases that make the lava appear Many local miners have died because of some In addition, the water in the caldera lake acid that is capable of dissolving metal. It poses a weird danger to visitors and residents If a volcanic eruption cracks the lake bed water in the lake could rush down the volcano 6. Lake Natron, Tanzania Lake Natron is weirder than the Bermuda Triangle die in it: It mummifies them. Lake Natron has this eerie ability because of baking soda and sodium carbonate. The ancient Egyptians used natron to preserve Over the years, the lake has embalmed birds, In 2011, a photographer named Nick Brandt creatures for his book, Across the Ravaged 5. Aokigahara Forest, Japan What is weird about Japan's Aokigahara Forest Reports estimate that approximately 100 people Even in death, these people can remain lost. It can take years to recover the bodies of by the dense foliage of the forest. Some of the bodies are never recovered. The forest is also supposedly haunted by the lives. 4. Mexico's Giant Crystal Cave Located in the Naica Mine of Mexico, the Giant First, the cave remained shut off from the years until miners pumped water out of it Second, it contains some gigantic selenite about 110, 231 pounds (50 metric tons). Some of the crystals are almost as tall as Third, the cave can cause a weird "steam The temperatures inside the cave run as high stays close to 100%. This means that if you stay a long time in will eventually fill up with water vapor in drown. Even with a special refrigeration suit, you about 30 minutes at a time. 3. Lake Michigan You would not expect a place as unassuming Triangle, but it is! Some of the strange phenomenon associated and a 40-foot ring of rocks that one report that of Stonehenge." Some people believe that this mysterious ring UFO sightings within Lake Michigan's very of Manitowoc, Ludington, and Benton Harbor. 2. Hoia Baciu Forest, Romania This frightening forest located in Transylvania Many weird events happen here, including UFO There are stories that over 1,000 people have The forest also has strange effects on visitors, injuries such as rashes and burns. Some visitors even report having paranormal nowhere and seeing distorted faces appear 1. Antarctica Antarctica outdoes the Bermuda Triangle in The landscape of Antarctica is otherworldly. It contains over 200 hidden liquid lakes and of ice. The winds that blow across its frozen lands It is also the home of some bizarre life forms There is also wild speculation about extraterrestrial A lost city supposedly exists underneath Antarctica's Recently, photos of a pyramid structure on claim that former Secretary of State John pyramid! Do you know of any other places weirder than Let us know in the comments! Also, be sure to check out our other video Thanks for watching, and, as always, don't See you next time!