This is a $100 million mega-mansion the most luxurious house And we're going to be comparing to living in this $69 that's built to withstand a $30 million palace and everything in between, to this $1 barely functioning house. More of a shed. Well, it's only a dollar. Why does this house cost a dollar? Yeah, we get another storm, it's So it's worth a dollar for me So you would say - Yes, indeed. Let's go. This is sketchy. What are the odds I fall through? Pretty high. Bro, these are wobbly. I like how that chair is just We have a recliner, a mattress I can literally fish Yo, I caught one. That's just the lure. I'm sorry. Now that you see us having fun, I do not. What if I gave you $2 to buy - No. I have an idea. Let's get out of this house. Later in this video, we have a house that cost And because I never plan on setting Let's head Speaking of which, we're which technically means you need to be Let's show you My first impression When you pay $1,000,000, along with four bedrooms But they keep going because this bedroom has a closet that's bigger than the $1 house. The bathtub is gigantic. I'm six foot five and I can fit And even though the bathrooms Oh God! The best seat in Oh snap! They have a movie theater. Dude, these chairs are massage Wait, what? These chairs each Two remotes! On top of the movie theater, I was not expecting This house is awesome. I'd have so much more friends. If I owned a place like this and ending with the pool, with this unnecessary waterfall. Overall, I'd say this is a But of course we're all here And that's why up next, $15 million house. Wait, you pushed it? Oh, my God. Jeez, man... I don't belong here. This looks like the house That view is crazy. The pool is much smaller but you can literally oversee Help! Hey! Help! Stop. Stop. Go inside. I need new friends. Let's check out the house. What do you think NFTs He's a lawyer. This guy was the top attorney in 2017 Apparently, that's all It appears a note was left for us. Dear MrBeast, thank You have given me the ultimate gift. I have a trump card with my kids Also, please don't eat They are very sacred to me and my family's been passing it down Got it. - Down or up? Down it is. Okay, now it's starting to look nice. The lower floor of this mansion comes with its very own movie This treadmill requires a passcode Six, nine, six, nine. It's not six, nine, six, nine. A guest bedroom, an entertainment a bunch of free food. - Guys, before you eat anything. What if he left this out Well, too late now, Karl ate it. And an incredible underground Yeah. Nolan's trying to swim I don't think he realized Back again? Yeah, do it one more time. And now a master bedroom Karl, come here. You missed. We got another one. You missed again. Oh wait! Nolan, stop it! Nolan, stop this cushion also. Stop throwing cushions. If it goes over the edge he might sue me. And so to avoid being handed court across the country to Massachusetts This extraordinary 16 bedroom In the main house. There are multiple living rooms, of the living rooms in this property. This is grand. - What is this? What book would you expect here besides The Way To Wealth by Benjamin Bro made the light bulb and a book? Well, Edison made the light bulb. What the hell did I'm going to read this book. Past the living room in the office was the Grand Kitchen where The owner of this place. So he made us That one smells like the beach. It does. How do they put the beach in a candle? And to top off the house's Chandler discovered that... You can hit golf Fore! That's not even close to because next door This looks like a garage They got Lamborghinis It's like a candy store for adults. The best part is - Follow me. Bro, there's more cars in here Holy crap! All right, now I am convinced if How do you even buy these cars? It's like a full time job There's stairs in the corner. Bro, this is like a Underneath the car garage They should really invest in a light They have 20 cars down here, - Did I...? No. No way! That's I was like, in their basement Now, don't get me wrong, in this house But if I owned it, I don't think This is awesome. That's right. For some just ungodly reason, it would be a good idea to install an I just want to remind you that I also have no idea how to play Gang squad, follow me. What? Two story arcade. The arcade in this house is actually 20 times bigger But that's not all. Bro, this place literally has everything. All right, I'm never leaving. We're playing ping pong First try, baby! Now, all of the features of the $30 But this next room is Head up these stairs What you really want to see is This is an indoor waterpark. It's like a whole new world in here. Look how far back the drone is Go have fun, Roger that. We're all about to go down We're going to enjoy the waterpark. I'll see you at the next house. The only bad news is it's once again The good news is it's a $45 - What! This is like the most open house What? I don't know what majestic thing As you can probably tell, these houses I don't even know how Honestly, lost for words. This is quite possibly the most So I called in multi-billionaire - How's it going? - How's it going, little man? Mark's also the proud owner of And because this house you can imagine - Jimmy won't make it! Just steal it from Karl. Hit that. - No shot. Yeah, that's it. Go, go, go, go, go. Yeah. There we go. Jake's play wins. Oh, no. Yeah! Way to dominate, Jakers. Now, we're going to show Mark Now that we're all sweating. To find out if he thought it was worth In case you're wondering, It looks like I did go swimming. - How much do they want for this house? - Not worth it? That's probably half of it. Is Brentwood what that is? No, the neighborhood. I also thought he was talking That's funny. This bathroom over here, it's nice. Do you have a couch in your bathroom? - Yes. Yeah. Okay. We need to get on Mark's level. The number one rule is, you have to That's it? - That feeling when you sit down... I agree. You don't need to make billions You just need to be able to afford Cause that's where I spend Well, even though I'm sure Mark here on the toilets, And so I'll see you guys Up next, we have a house to be my favorite number. And now we are at the $69 million That looks like a villain owns it. It does look villainous. How's this compare to your house, Miranda? It's a lot bigger than mine. That can't be sure. The reason why this weird looking for $69 million with priceless art and sculptures Throw up and we're going to try to guess it. I'm going to say 100,000. - What do you think, Miranda? Oh, she has one of these in her house. Yeah. I have the same one. Only you know the actual price. Oh, actually, I'm going to go with $1,000,000 the opening stairs, so... $450,000 - Very precise. The $30 million house had a waterpark, a hundred cars. This place just has artwork. Big red sculpture. This room over here, we wouldn't touch what's in it. Come over here. No touching anything, what is it? This is a one of one made by the creator of the Walkman, that allowed you to listen to music That's an impressive thing To have made the Walkman. I don't think you could fit this Let's traverse across the skywalk. Oh, my God. I'm excited. Another reason For example, having to walk across is because it's to be able to withstand I mean, you got to admit, You can see the tsunamis before What completes You can see all of it. What if the man who lives here with the person that lives next door? That's his ex girlfriend. It's a Romeo and Juliet. And now that we are done it was time to head to our last stop. The final house, the $139 million arguably most luxurious house on the This massive 36,000 square foot mansion has things from a nightclub to a T-Rex This place is going to blow your mind extra special, How you guys doing? And this is Justin's house No. Holy crap! Have you ever seen a view - This is gorgeous. The CGI is perfect, it looks real. He's like, &quot;Yeah, maybe it's top 10.&quot; I'll put it top five. It's hard to describe It has 12 bedrooms and 17 bathrooms stories, all with a perfect view I always judge a house You judge these things. Well, let's keep going. At the end of the tour, if he would pay $100 million. He has it on standby if he likes it. Straight cash, homie. Everything in this house is built on the planet. For example, the walls in this room marble, imported straight from Italy. You guys got to get an estimate on how much marble I mean, that's a Yeah, there's not a single thing Drywall? This is a pretty sick chandelier. This chandelier is over $1,000,000. And the ceiling because it weighs It really keeps going. You didn't tell me it was a million. There is literally $6 million and the rooms on the bottom floor There's a whole other house If you come over here... Dude, this is literally an ice room. - This is where you lock me in? Please don't. So, what do you do in here? They ran out of room ideas. Probably a 50% because that doesn't have a handle. Oh, no. We're good. That would have been funny if we were His face. Is that a real dinosaur? Now that you know the house has a I'm still on the fence. What? Is this a locker room? No one currently owns this house, so they put nametags on the planet Warren Buffett's worth like 80 billion, Bezos Like 100 billion. Chandler, why is your name not up here? All right, let's check out the whips. - Nolan, are you just posing? You really match the house. Thank you. I was going for that, I was going for that. Job well done. Nolan's going to go in the editing room This $2.5 million car elevator is one of the most insane You select which car and it literally sends it up I know what you're thinking. The main problem with - Six Lamborghinis and... You needed like a ten car storage. Right. This house also had the by far biggest home theater This almost looks This is the best movie And they're actually reclining It only costs Check it out, Jimmy. I got you. Hey! I don't need this Bro, where's my button? Here, switch. Let me see. Yeah, Chandler test the massage feature. Oh, my god, it works. No way this is just the only one here. Man. This is great. Bro, what is wrong with them? All right, lead the way upstairs. This is a primary bedroom over here. Oh, and then over here. The bathrooms. In case you've ever Now you can. That's my thing, man. You can take a bath with no one. And basically all yourself You can fit an army in there. - If that's what you're into. And now the best part of the house The real reason this house cost I'm pressing it. Is this a screen? It is absurdly large. And slow. - It gives drama, though. It gives a dramatic effect. I mean... It's a little bit of a flex. What a gorgeous view of L.A. Yeah. Imagine I think it is. There's downtown L.A. and there's downtown L.A. For reference, Karl is Yeah, something like that. And look All right, Justin, We need to know. Obviously, you have $100 million Right. Are you going to buy the house? - Nolan's shirt comes with it. - Your shirt comes with it? I'm in. Does the bear that Oh, no! Let's go! - Wait, wait. I hope you guys enjoyed it I'll see you around. To buy the house you just saw, check out 1200 Belair in Los Angeles.