Not long ago, a little fox suddenly broke into my house. The little fox was very young at that time. When I approached it, the little fox kept making threatening noises. At this moment, the fox was very alert. The fox still doesn't trust me now. I tried to get close to the fox and build trust with it. The little fox was extremely nervous. The little guy was worried I might hurt it. Don't be afraid, little one. I mean no harm. I tried to build trust with the little fox. The little guy watched my actions warily. The little fox was very dirty. The dog also curiously approached. The little dog was very well-behaved and obedient. The walls of the yard are very high. The little fox got into my house through this hole. I tried to get close to the fox. The little fox ran really fast. The fox seemed very interested in the dog. The little fox seemed to want to befriend the dog. The fox seemed to be making friendly gestures towards the dog. The little dog seemed a bit confused. The fox was so cute. The fox tried to please the dog. The dog didn't seem to want to play with the fox. The little dog barked and walked away. The fox kept chasing after it. The little fox seemed eager to befriend the little dog. But the dog ignored the little fox. Eventually, the dog and the fox became good friends. I tried to pet the fox. To gain the fox's trust, I tried to feed it some cookies. Out of self-protection instinct, the little fox was still very cautious. It didn't dare to easily eat food from strangers. I kept trying to feed the fox. Hoping to gain its trust this way. The next day, the fox was still around. I tried to feed the little fox again. It worked. The little guy finally ate the food I gave it. It seems the little fox started to trust me a bit. The little fox ate the cookies voraciously. The little fox must have been very hungry. The little fox looked very thin. At this moment, the fox let down its guard. The fox didn't run away either. Eat up, little one. To avoid getting attacked by the little fox, I still kept a safe distance from it. The dog indicated it wanted some treats too. Feed the little fox first, then feed the dog a bit later. I tried to get the fox familiar with my scent. The little fox was very gentle. The little fox had no intention of attacking me. I prepared some cookies for the little fox. The hole in the corner of the wall wasn't sealed. This made it easier for the little fox to leave. Maybe the fox will stay. I decided to let the fox decide for itself. If the fox decides to leave, I won't stop it. If the fox wants to stay, then I'll take care of it. Of course, I hope the little one stays. Day 4 The little fox still hasn't left. The fox and the dog are very close. They've become good friends. The cookies left yesterday have all been eaten by the fox. Now, I'm giving the fox some snacks. The little fox trusts me a lot now. But I still don't dare to pet it. Take it slow. It's not easy to befriend a fox. I gave the dog some snacks too. Day 5 The little fox completely trusts me now. The little fox is very close to me. I tried to pet the little fox. Let's give the little fox some snacks. The little fox loves to hide in the hole. Time to eat, little one. I tried to pet the little fox again. Finally, I managed to pet the little fox. The little fox's fur is so fluffy. It feels so nice to touch. The first time I petted the little fox, I was so excited. One week later, the little fox had settled in the hole. The little fox and I have gotten even closer. The little fox loves to play hide-and-seek with me. The little fox loves this hole. Hello, little one. Come to daddy. 10 days later, the little fox had grown a lot. The dog and the fox became good friends. When I fed the cat, the little fox came over too. The little fox tried to befriend the cat. The little fox and the cat got very close. Let's give the little ones some more milk. The dog didn't seem to like the milk. Two weeks later, the little fox made new friends. The mother dog and the little fox bonded. The little fox greedily drank the mother dog's milk. The mother dog didn't reject the little fox. The mother dog treated the little fox like her own puppy. 20 days later, the little fox had grown even more. Our bond deepened. Today's breakfast for the little fox was beef liver. Today, I set up a new bed for the little ones. One month later, the little fox gained the trust of the mother cat. The little fox saw the mother cat as its mom. The mother cat took good care of the little fox. Two months later, the little fox had grown up. Today, I took the little fox for a walk in the wild. Now, we have a deep friendship. I'm not worried about the little fox running away, because it always stays close to me. During the time I've spent with the little fox, we've had such wonderful moments together.