He made it his home, The Obersalzberg until Adolf Hitler discovered it in 1923. Up on top, 700 kilometers from Berlin, the Nazi leader surrounded and his mistress, Eva Braun. At the center of the ultra-secure compound Above that, the famous Eagle's Nest symbolizing their thirst for grandeur. Here, overlooking the darkest ideas However, on the site, despite the bombings there are some remnants. This is in the right place to be this. Through field studies, survivors' stories, we'll discover how into a massive military-political complex. Seventy years after the end of the war, what are the Obersalzberg's trees hiding? What remains of the network of tunnels dug inside the mountain? How does history live on in every corner Bavaria, Germany, In a country decimated by war a new extreme right-wing party, The National Socialist by a black swastika It's commonly referred to Its leader is about 30 years old. His name is Adolf Hitler. Anti-Semitic and anti-Communist, this great orator is skilled at using simple language He claims to want to restore and crisscrosses Bavaria, In the spring of 1923, a small village in southern Bavaria, It is a small, quiet mountain community. The young Adolf comes to meet one of his most fervent supporters, He registers at the Moritz guesthouse This pretty inn, is located on a small mountain the Obersalzberg. In front of it stands the Untersberg, a large massive that runs along the border It all began on the morning looked out that window, and as he said, in particular, the Untersberg. This spring morning in 1923 of the Obersalzberg. It was here that Adolf Hitler returned before which for attempting In his cell, and decided that when he was free, to complete his work. During his stay in prison, Dietrich Eckart died Hitler finished He dedicated it to his author friend, who had given him &quot;I want also to reckon among them, &quot;by words, and by thoughts, &quot;dedicated his life &quot;of our nation, Dietrich Eckart.&quot; Dietrich Eckart is one of the most in Hitler's life. He shaped Hitler as a person. He was absolutely vital This may be part of Nazi mythology, but Eckart was alleged that Hitler would dance, The first evidence the Nazi leader dates back It can be found in the basement the local newspaper, The first notice on December 26th in Berchtesgaden appears from December 29th. The first notice A few pages later, there's a second death notice The swastika is backward, It's quite interesting to see from his friends It shows that there was already which only grew from there. Beginning in 1924, Adolf Hitler's steady rise on the peaceful little Bavarian mountain. Jeff Walden is one of the top Passionate about the Second World War, this former American soldier He has dedicated He's published several books on evidence In recent years, Jeff has scoured the area so he knows every inch of the mountain. In order to carry out his investigation, and thousands of archival photographs He knows precisely where the buildings and what remains of them today. On the mountainside, the first chalet in the early 1920s. When he was released from prison, he came back to the Obersalzberg He came back here to stay and use this quiet area There were a few trees in the woods here, but not as many There was a little wood cabin here. The stones are what's left He used that as a writer's retreat During the Nazi era, this house was preserved and his book Mein Kampf. To the visitors this was one of the special sites In 1928, Hitler decided a small house located a few hundred meters This typically Bavarian building Little by little, to the admirers who flocked to him. Before 1933, He interacted with the locals. We know Josepha Mitzi Reiter, a girlfriend with whom he had There were a lot of local interactions. Clearly, in 1933, it became a place of pilgrimage. This is where we see these crowds, the hundreds and even thousands of people to walk past his house. Hitler bought the Wachenfeld Haus with the income Very quickly, and busy in his role he decided to enlarge it Between 1935 and 1937, the construction work took place First, a botanical garden and a garage In 1936, the small wooden house was swallowed up A deck was created above the garage. The last phase extended the left wing and created another one In 1937, the Wachenfeld Haus now called the Berghof. Its 30 rooms house Hitler's apartments, and all the staff. The centerpiece of the house and a panoramic bay window. Made up of 90 small windows, it was seven meters long Twenty-eight square meters of glass, a real show of technical skill a breathtaking view of the Unterberg. Hitler once said Hitler would bring stand them before the window, and essentially indicate Bombed at the end of the war the buildings were entirely destroyed to prevent the Obersalzberg Today, there is very little evidence The main thing that can be seen is the retaining wall This was not part of the house, and the house It was just a large concrete wall from moving forward Visitors would arrive at the driveway, then ascend the grand staircase. The SS Honor Guard would be lined up here, and then they would enter into the Berghof proper. It's thought that this piece of stone here that form the main entrance I have taken a tape measure here and this is in the right place to be this. It's right about up there. Hitler's bedroom was right up there. The famous terrace so it would have been right up there. Just above the Berghof, the Zum Turken Hotel was transformed Above that lived Martin Bormann, Bormann ran Hitler's property. Totally devoted to the Fuhrer, he was the feared master Today, a luxury hotel stands However, the building's original plans [German spoken audio] This old Obersalzberg house What's interesting it looks typically local, simply to keep the vacation home feel. [German spoken audio] Inside, we know that the house In the Munich archives, invoices prove that he possessed and that everything was very luxurious. Martin Bormann knew that for Adolf Hitler his inner circle must accompany him, and his loyal followers must be near him He had to either refurbish or build homes Under Bormann's oversight, 60,000 workers were sent and the mountain became The Obersalzberg illustrates the way By appropriating he seized his chance He forced all the Obersalzberg residents When he did not force them out, He ran a brutal construction site. Omnipresent and bad-tempered, the architects complained about a man who, put an enormous amount [German spoken audio] A part of Martin Bormann's success was that he was always He was always anticipating Before Hitler even needed Martin Bormann In just a few years, and became the second To ensure the safety of the Chancellor, Eventually, Hitler was protected by two There was an inner ring and all of these rings were fenced off This is part of the original fencing. The secure area possessed by the Nazis Guard posts were placed and 35 new buildings were built. Among them was a house commander in chief of the Luftwaffe, and another for Albert Speer, the Nazi's party chief architect. There was even a theater. Here we are in the ruins the so-called Theaterhalle. It was built in 1937 for all the workers This was mainly a place and watch cinema films. All the workers were allowed to come in, This was the audience area. The projection room so the films would have been projected We're standing below the floor area, It was supported so we're in what would have been [German spoken audio] As we can see from the plans, the theater was 35 meters wide That's big. The building was designed Sometimes there were also Clearly, we can see They used it On the mountain, it was highly important and their staff To feed them, Beneath the secured area, he transformed a building We're standing but in the 1930s and 1940s, The main buildings we see were part of the Gutshof farm. It was built Martin Bormann was a farmer at heart, and farming continued Therefore, he had to have a farm here. On the Obersalzberg, the farms were destroyed, and everything was replaced However, this farm It did not work at all, simply because they did not have This is a plan for the greenhouse It was 119 meters long and 26 meters wide. They were shaped like a crescent. They tried to grow vegetables but it was not enough. The Nazis were never able However, with his passion for grandeur Martin Bormann wanted to do more. He wanted to offer Adolf Hitler In 1937, he decided to build a house on the peak Built by 3,000 men in less than 13 months, it would later be christened From the Obersalzberg, the climb begins topped with five tunnels From there, leads to an elevator shaft. There were two elevator cars. The top one was for the Nazi elite, They climbed the last 120 meters arriving in the center of the house. Today, the elevator and the Eagle's Nest, has been transformed This mythical place during the Second World War. However, the place played Hitler was agoraphobic He went up there only a handful of times. Ultimately, this house would be used his mistress Eva Braun. In one of his amateur videos, we recognize the marriage celebration and Hermann Fegelein, an SS general. On this 1944 summer day, he was already responsible When Hitler came to spend a few days The Fuhrer wanted while reflecting on his political Albert Feiber works in Munich. As part of his research, he has studied and has researched Hitler's habits His days were actually quite boring. As we know, Hitler lived at night. He got up very late, [German spoken audio] Generally, he held his first meetings After a late lunch, Hitler and all his Berghof entourage walked to the teahouse on the road we're on now. During these ritual walks, The path was very narrow. There was only room They discussed highly political subjects. From the Berghof, to reach the tea room. Bombed in 1945, and finally destroyed in 2006 the tea room has almost disappeared, and its ruins Here, we are on the last remains Once people got here, ate cakes, and talked innocently. We don't know if it is true, but it is said that Hitler fell asleep After an hour and a half, After dinner, to listen to Hitler's long monologues. Sometimes they would watch a movie, and the evening went on [German spoken audio] Hitler was a big fan of American movies. They were officially censored in Germany, He was a big Mickey Mouse fan too. Life at the Berghof Here, the fierce dictator, gives way to a simple man, The decoration is typically Bavarian, and even the smallest object French soldiers brought back when they came This is a tablecloth It was made in Munich It's quite suitable for life [French spoken audio] There are several other examples There are several napkins all with Adolf Hitler's initials. Here is the swastika. Here, we have a knife that comes It is a bit more elaborate, with a sort of Greek motif on the handle, and then the German Eagle It becomes a personality cult since all the elements including the Kehlsteinhaus, are almost always the initials of Adolf Hitler. Hitler used this object. It was on his personal desk. Photos show it at the Berghof, In it, there are his letterhead, envelopes, and calling cards and the Nazi emblem. There is still the card from his secretary reminding him The French soldiers' trophies a sumptuous lifestyle in high contrast The residents of the city of Berchtesgaden Adolf and his cronies, &quot;Those out there.&quot; There were waiters in white gloves. Everything was very methodical, orchestrated with a high level of protocol Since the Berghof was a place of power, we found objects given by dignitaries as is the case for this box. It was a gift given to Hitler It is a gold and silver box. It shows the functions With time, the Obersalzberg Between the trinkets politics continued to operate. It's quite surprising, but the mountain had become that functioned completely outside When Heinrich Himmler was there they did not talk about the weather but about the deportation or how many people in the gas chambers. All of this was decided orally. Mixed with their daily weighty decisions were made. A symbol of the Chancellor's omnipotence, the Obersalzberg in the diplomatic relations The press often reported who made official visits to Hitler Hitler would orchestrate these arrivals. Sometimes he would come I think when the Prince of Wales visited, he met him at the base of the stairs When Chamberlain came, On other occasions, he is said and simply waited He designed his own protocol From the writing of Mein Kampf it was in this breathtaking setting of the Third Reich. All the planning Across from the Berghof, The soul of Friedrich Barbarossa who would one day rise Hitler named the invasion of Russia This was the place He famously said that that was where and conceived his great ideas. When it comes to ideas, the list is long. It was at the Berghof of all Jewish businesses in 1933. It was where he prepared and ordered in 1941. Finally, it is where of half a million Hungarian Jews in 1944. Behind these gruesome scenes Adolf Hitler's mistress. She began living there secretly in 1936 because Hitler wanted to show the world However, when he had no guests Eva Braun took over the premises For Eva Braun, She is recognized there. She's the boss. Hitler always tells her and take her friends and sisters. Robert Brandner He specializes in a niche market, Numerous objects and among them are letters Herta Schneider. Herta received her letters or cards. I had a bundle of them. They said: &quot;How are you, my little Herta?&quot; &quot;Do you want to spend &quot;I'm a little lonely up here.&quot; &quot;I would enjoy your company.&quot; &quot;My sisters are coming next week.&quot; Et cetera. Upon her death, to Herta Schneider, and Robert Brandner I had suitcases, clothes, nightgowns, tights, gloves, everything. There was some furniture too. This dressing table It stayed at the Berghof until the end. At the end of the war, a resident of Berchtesgaden One could also say that she looted it. It turns out it was probably fair game since Martin Bormann himself During the war, Eva Braun continued In 1944, the marriage between her sister and SS Fegelein was the occasion At that time, Germany was undergoing In 1943, when bombs fell on Munich, the Obersalzberg trembled. Hitler and his faithful secretary, knew that their mountain was vulnerable. Despite all the precautions taken an airstrike could easily destroy To protect them, Martin Bormann the construction of a network of bunkers and tunnels This was one of the emergency exits This is the only access because all the other entrances Back there, in Hitler's own tunnel system, there were some 17 rooms, There were rooms for Hitler, for his personal physician, Doctor Morell, for his personal servants and also some staff rooms The Berghof's bunker Its construction took place Section A was completed It went from a staircase and extended to the basement where Hitler's personal bodyguard stayed. It included the personal apartments Section B, built in 1944, It contained a telecommunications room, and a control room Section C, included a tunnel to escape potential attackers. The Fuhrer's bunker was equipped but it was also connected to the bunker Between the two, was built under the SS barracks. Goring and Speer's houses In total, in less than two years, a sprawling 6-kilometer was dug inside the Obersalzberg. This rare footage dates back to 2004. It comes from one of the rare times the Bavarian government of the Obersalzberg's bunkers. It was led by a German archaeologist Here's another pass. Here, we are under Martin Bormann's house. Although Allied Forces went there are still traces during the war years. Here, they called it the casino, which served as a living room [German spoken audio] [German spoken audio] That's some ointment. We're heading for the emergency exit. We are again above the air ducts. Here we can see the old armored door To avoid neo-Nazi pilgrimages, the Obersalzberg's bunkers but one area, is still accessible. In this second seat of power, the bunkers were to be used but also as the government's That's why they were intended Axel Drecoll is the site's custodian. The Contemporary History Institute with preserving Here, we are in a room hence the appearance of a large hall. Otherwise, many rooms of senior party officials for long stays. They were therefore habitable. It was sparse, not luxurious. However, the small rooms and control rooms. The idea was to be able Inside, everything was designed so that the occupants could remain while remaining isolated from the surface. In the 1940s, and the logical consequence was that as the ideological delirium they buried themselves underground. That's what the bunker shows. The sprawling network has two levels. One is filled with habitable shelters. The second, located just below, and especially At a rate of 3,000 cubic meters per hour, the air was drawn in, and then vented A slight extra pressure to be pushed outside. This system made it possible and most importantly, to prevent any contaminated air In the event leakproof valves were used from entering the tunnels. The underground complex could thus operate This gigantic construction making it almost indestructible. The tunnels were constructed First, solid concrete Then a first brick wall Then a layer of plastic insulation, and finally, a second wall covered with plaster. In 1945, as the war was ending, The Nazi leader's goal Behind, there is still an elevator shaft. The shaft is finished, Imagine lifts that could carry trucks. In fact, it should have been Here, we have a bunker entrance or exit. It could be reached by this staircase. At the bottom of the stairs, access was monitored On the surface, the Luftwaffe added a battalion of anti-aircraft artillery, and a fog machine in addition In the spring of 1945, when the German Army and the country was being massively bombed the Royal Air Force decided to strike as a symbolic gesture. On April 28th, 1945, a shower of bombs It was practically that hadn't been bombed. However, to say that they moving the war into that particular location. At the time, When the 15 warnings sounded, so you had to go home. With the ten and five warnings, On the day of the Obersalzberg bombing, I did not want to go down into a bunker However, On the road, a plane shot at me. Imagine, I was on the road, On the surface, but the bunker had worked. The bombing caused only six deaths. In the region, the residents and would soon discover I was convinced that the Fuhrer I did not understand At the end of the war, I was 13 years old. You must understand that for me, as a kid, a humiliation. We were the ideal country. The Nazis were the best, I did not know anything at the time. As the locals finally ventured French troops from General Leclerc, moved toward At the same time, Even today, on who arrived at the Berghof first. Berlin had fallen a few days before. The ground troops didn't know They think that he might be up there, The Americans arrived They believe they have reached their goal, They are close, but so far away. However, not knowing the area, The 2nd Armored Division two or three hours after, The French knew more who had been taken prisoner took them to the Berghof. Therefore, the French arrived A few hours earlier, the last SS soldiers on the site so the French soldiers Alain Raphael is one of the first soldiers At that time, he was 24. We traveled up to it We parked our tanks under the terrace. I can still see myself entering this room I had seen photos and I found myself in this room. I enjoyed it. Under the stairs, we broke down a door In there, there were items Everyone helped themselves However, as I lost my tank afterward, French soldiers found built under the Berghof. To mark their passage, three of them engraved their initials, the symbol of the Free French Forces. Quickly, the GIs caught up also finding After having lived the village was about to live The last remains of the Berghof and until 1995, to relax in their free time. Once Germany reunited, Bavaria tried to make the mountain The area has been reforested, and the last remains of the structures to make room for new buildings, Today, the Obersalzberg but what little remains from the wartime In their own way, the remains recount which saw Adolf Hitler and his followers to satisfy their thirst for power.