I'm going to turn this rock that is paper thin! Why use a material that's Because I'm on a quest to find out I've tried everything from obsidian ranging from awesome to awful. So next on my list is rock. Depending on which kind of rock you have, which should turn into a However, But if I can source the best rocks, learn the best techniques and utilize the most advanced I think my rock knife may just stand a First things first. I need a rock. But not just any rock. I need to find some granite. Because just like every mom I like the way granite looks. Also, I think it will have some properties It's really hard and relatively durable. That's what your mom said about! That's what makes it so popular why I want it for my knife, softer rocks simply So anyways, I wasn't having any luck at first. Then I remembered there's an right here in Salt Lake City! This place is has alot of granite! It's all over the mountainside. That whole mountain is granite. That means this is the place. But we need something a little While I was there, and I decided to make Not exactly what we're looking for, but I think we could still make a knife out of and it's still a rock. So let's make two knives! Now that I have the rocks, I need to get them into For that, 000 psi water jet. This giant machine can cut basically You just need to draw and it gets right to work you want into your material. However, this project is a little average water jet cutting. I'll explain more of that as it happens. All right, here's the idea. We take the granite. I like this outline here, so maybe that could be So we cut a line here. Boom! Another line here. Bam! That gives us a little slice. We cut out the knife shape. Bada ba boom! Pow! Now, for this pink rock. Somebody tell me what Similar process. I might cut it in half first I like this for the top of the knife. So then we boom, bam! And then cut the knife shape. The difficult part is figuring out the right angle for making a knife. If you ask a real knife maker, they'll tell you the angle of the for it to be an actually good knife. This sounds easy because our water can be set to a precise angle. But keep in mind, I can't see exactly where the jet will And I'm not getting anywhere So basically, I have to spend a few hours trying to angle for the sideways motion of the Otherwise, this knife isn't going to be Ready, Nate? I would have expected nothing less. Look at that. That is going to make And I mean beautiful! Oh! All right, ladies and gentlemen! All right, let's see what that looks like! Ooh, looks like a nice pork chop! Man, Nate, could you pass me the chops? Come on, Nate, I'm hungry. Oh, yeah! Here you go. Ah, thanks. Um. anyways, I got bored of trying to so I decided to take a little break some might say I have ADHd, I say I'm optimizing my I started with a block of two different knives to be the same general shape Just like, uh, just like. Alright, I can't think of a joke for that. Maybe you guys can fill in for Kind of like how our Chomps is the perfect snack! It has healthy ingredients that you 12 grams of protein per stick! And it has no sugar! It's healthy. Actually, while I was filming this I got real hungry. Cause I was there for like 12 hours and It was great. I saw some chomps at Costco, Wow. I love chomps. And they actually were delicious. I ate like four or five of My brother's a real healthy person and we were even sponsored by them! What's your favorite flavor? Me personally, I like the jalapeno. I'm a bit of a spicy boy, We've been working with and Chomps is definitely one of the So if Chomps is the kind of stuff to support the channel, help us out by going to our Oh, man, that made me hungry. Anyways, back to the handles. I'm using black walnut and bacote. to cut them down, the table saw. This thing terrifies me! Even though it can stop within from cutting off my finger, it can still fling things Once I'm done changing my overalls, I'll start sanding the wood I printed off this outline and now I just because I don't have a band saw. Oh, I have a water jet that's Beautiful. That's why we love bacote. I forgot to do this one slower so because this is a harder wood. Then I'll take those back to the general shape roughed out. I'll start by going for a Then halfway through, Everyone loves a nice chamfered edge! Just ask Tim apple. Okay, actually, that looks bad. So I'm going to go back to smooth. I switched to a higher grit sandpaper time to get it nice and smooth. Back in rock town, it's time to cut these into a close to the final shape. Was that a destiny two reference? It's already slightly knife shaped, so I'm thinking we put the point this end for this little guy! I'm thinking we split it in half. That'll get us closer to the But it'll also give us a second Because something tells me this granite Perfect! Which one's the better option? This one looks a little flatter. This one's kind of angled so So let's use this one. I like the profile of it! Got our nice little mountain range there. I already explained this, This step is really Because it was taking so long, I made a bit of a bozo move that Let's hope this doesn't because that would really Remember how I said Oh, no. Oh, no. Huh? Huh? Huh? Well, here are each of the pieces. I can't decide if I want to or completely start over. All right, So back to the granite knife. If I keep this nice and straight, at a slight angle, and I cut along here. Oh, that should give it the same angle, So let's see what happens. How did the blade turn out, though? Hey, that it's usable. I really like the shape so I'm gonna glue it and hope it's not a nightmare. I learned this one back in vietnam, No visible seam. Yeah. Cracks. I hardly know her! I actually really like the rock rather than the cut finish. So maybe there's a way I can preserve the water jet and give it a nice edge. If there's anything I know, it's edging. Okay! If I knew what kind of stone this was, I could look up its properties But... that's not an option. Before I mount the blade to the handle, I want to sharpen the rocks a it all in one sitting later. Once again, I'll use these diamond plated the blades at dollar 140, these diamond sharpening but as they say, And every other sharpening method Then I'll cut out some of the handle I don't have a lot of so I'll do a very bad job and just be really careful Surely this won't cause After that, because that's a whole lot funner and especially the rock blade. Okay, we're onto the final sharpening Okay. It's taking some material off. You can see the dust I'm going really slow and steady here because I don't want the rock to chip off or break in any way. Whew. Yeah, that's sharp! I say, that's ready! Come get a look at this. You can actually see here Cue epic montage! These are a little rough around the edges, but they actually have a The natural stone edge turned out great. And they're fairly thin, I think these should work well! Let's get testing! Ooh, good initial results. Ooh, yeah, that's dreamy. And that's a rock. This is a rock. Let's see here. How thin can we go? Oh, I'm going real slow here, Nice and easy. Look at that. You ever seen a rock Didn't think so. I don't even think that our They're so dull. I know. Let's see how the granite fares. Wasn't really able to sharpen it, but I'm hoping it kind of has Hoping maybe those can We all know serrated knives are so it might just be better. All right, first test with the granite. It's sawing its way through. It's certainly not as but it works surprisingly well. like, look at how thick that blade Like, call it a day. Let's see how thin we can go. Probably not super thin. Certainly can't go as but it still works fairly well! Now, the carrot test is the true test Let's see how they fare. Okay, let's see how thin we can go. Nice and easy! Not pushing too hard. Wow! look at that. Now, that is paper thin! Let's try out the granite knife. We're gonna use our Nobody else in the It's not a very clean cut. It's pretty rough, but it worked. Let's try it on the thicker end. It would seem that the granite knife has broken! Was that the actual rock that broke? Yeah, it was a little thin right there. I wasn't putting that much pressure on it. So that just goes to show Just like all the people who Pioneers used to ride