Outer space looks black, used to be this color. How's that possible? Let's find out. Stars and galaxies space is pitch black. So pick a dark spot in the sky dish at it. You might expect to get You get static. Pick another point Move your dish Even accounting for all no matter how you there's this constant that's just always there in the same pattern over and over. Now since we pick up from every direction seem to be coming from a everywhere on the sky. Problem is, we don't anywhere that would emit this emission, so where's Aliens. No, it's not aliens. It's never aliens. But what if I told you that the the cosmic microwave was the process that formed almost 13 and 1/2 And what if I also told you also caused all of space to look That's right, the universe To understand how we first need to take a brief Turn on your toaster. The heating elements glow That glow isn't ambient light it's light being emitted If you were to analyze less limited than would realize that the pale, red light. It's emitting electromagnetic Moreover, the intensity is in very specific a graph very close to this. That emission pattern is called the toaster's an idealization of a thermal spectrum. Now, everything so everything has and it emits all You, a taco, the In fact, it's called because the light is generated of particles in the material. And those random motions of temperature. Now, if you go really down to 2.7 degrees the peak shifts way into and, lo and behold, and I mean exactly. The CNB is one of to a mathematically perfect has ever been observed. Problem is, space is There's nothing really a temperature, much less the of 2.7 Kelvin. So why does the CMB look like To answer that and to see we need to turn the clock after the Big During that era, a with a temperature of permeated all of space. At this temperature, it's too to even coalesce into atoms, or galaxies. This ionized soup And just like toasters, it was emitting a of electromagnetic waves. But because there were the light the couldn't travel would run into an electron game. So if you took the and could somehow you wouldn't be able to see very a few thousand lightyears, but it's basically in astronomical terms. So at this moment, it was as going off everywhere was being snuffed out by a fog. Now as this plasma cooled, dropped below the 3,000 where neutral atoms With no more free electrons the universe became, for the The light that the just before neutralized was one of an infinite number of at every point in the universe And now, that light could free forever. Before, during and after this That's what thinned and made it cool down But as we talked about that you can revisit stretches the wavelength through a process called So over the course of that orangey thermal was redshifted to longer becoming toaster read so that to human eyes, the If you throw in another of space expansion, has redshifted into to become what we today And all those atoms Well, they managed to clump, and through a complicated us. So the CMB, or the shape of its is pretty compelling it comes to the color of Now, the CMB is of other reasons besides so I'm sure you guys will I'll tackle as many as I can Time.&quot; Last week, I challenged you to Fox barrel roll. A lot of you emailed in got it right. The first five of you answers, and I if I mispronounce Markus Kesselring, Cameron and Jacob Stueck. Good work. The rest of your names as I explain the answer The trick was to cancel out momentum vectors with forward-pointing rotates to end up with momentum. And the solution is both with forward-pointing rotate into the reverse That way, any sideways that gets produced The short YouTube of this principle in action. An answer that some of you isn't wrong, but wasn't is to take the already spinning and slow down its spin. In response, the ship would have And technically don't get nearly as much as you do from actually rotating its spin. A few of you asked, wouldn't weigh just as much as Answer-- not necessarily. If some fictitious, really material could be spun you could store up a with very little mass. And to everyone who pointed out directions wrong in annotation added and thanks [MUSIC PLAYING]