Well this isn't the ocean. That's because inside your mother. Even at this age work has predatory lifestyle by mom feeding you some are born... somewhere. We don't really but we can narrow it down to, the whole ocean. with your seven siblings you immediately swim away is probably what happened to this guy. I'm sure instantly starting life at the top of the food of eating everyone else so you can grow larger is a starter pack of knowledge for you to learn on lot of animals have to gather themselves. Let's don't survive the first year so you have to get a quite strong enough to take on large prey so you find. Because of your smaller size you live a but these early years see your fastest growth reach 3 or 4 years old. As you come to the end one off treat. You are now a juvenile Great White 9 feet you can now take on some slightly larger Up until now all of your prey have had no choice your first test of consuming someone who has this is countershading, your form of camouflage your white belly blends in with the sunlight, allows you to strategically trick the penguins be. Having successfully orphaned a chick, you looks like there's a killer on the loose. You're plan so best keep your eyes peeled. Meanwhile weak electrical pulse through the ocean that you filled pores all over your head. This sixth sense prey with pinpoint accuracy. Another strong sense smell. Just under your snout are two nostril like but they do have their limits. It is true that sized swimming pool... if it's only slightly you can easily pick up is the delicious smell the next thing on your training. Unfortunately bigger sharks, and you don't want to tempt You take the safe option of hovering around the guess that counts. I mean you didn't really eat rules don't apply to you. After a few more years around 12 or 13 ft and are ready for your final grow up to 8 ft long so this will be a true test set a convenient school swims over your head, and to always take advantage of the weak and helpless, as possible, then detach your jaw from your skull a fat chunk of it with you. That seemed a bit you did it! You're becoming an unstoppable Another murder, they must still be out there. You are now an adult great white shark. I know up but you're really an opportunistic feeder, and a next meal. People smiling makes you sick, so you location then 0 to 25 and... Who said sharks mammal kill and since your jaws now strong enough your next target, and you opportunistically hunt Seal Island. Obviously lots of seals means lots in the market that goes along the lines of, and if both those fail whoever got there first. about different prey with each other but given going to give that a miss. Hunting these guys is a gifted natural instincts, you should be sorted. unsuspecting victim who's just trying to provide with five strong swooshes hit your top speed. Just black... because you roll your eyes back in your 10 ft in the air, no seal in mouth, looking down rock in your ear is having a melt down as you massive failure. Hey, I know who you can take it there. 50% success rate, that sounds about right. worry, that's normal. They're only held in by soft step up for duty when the front ones fall. As produce new teeth that join at the back row. Of actively tearing up families. Speaking of that slowly approach a new colony. That looks like as well, and another one over there. Wait there's right towards you. As the seals start mobbing brain lets you be, so mildly concerned. You try occasional nasty jab at you. They're obviously not you were born into, you're just trying to do your actually good for them, even though you bring only there'd be too many of them and not enough food you kill them someone gets the benefit.They don't see one. I guess you're not as formidable when you're faced with another surprise. The seals 14 ft about the same size as you. Whoever did this safe to be an adult here. Time for you to migrate using your electro-reception to navigate Earth's this, but I'm making a new one up. To avoid the maxing out at over 3,000 ft, relying on the and energy. You've arrived, time to establish for now so look at your training for something easy enough. Similar setup to the fur seals just go to fifth gear, and hit them with possibly the 1,000 kilos the impact alone is probably enough, them down below. Nice what's next. Sea otters but you do have to be really nasty. Right that's a big trip ahead. A couple problems you have water flows over your gills, and you don't have you get around this you find a strong current means you can slow right down to recover without we think. How you sleep is really still a observations. You've planned out your annual the white shark cafe. And by nearby I mean over Here you take a break from the usual grind deep sea fish. A few months later your belly's but there are exciting days ahead. Your natural the California coast. These waters are getting sharks are part of a very elite group. Most fish temperature to regulate their body temperature, around 35 that have warm-blooded capabilities. muscles transfers heat to the cooler blood on a higher body temperature than the surrounding and can generously help manage the population of guys can be quite large, which is why you're here it's a lot easier to take advantage of the ones probably just wallop it and swallow it a whole, technique to avoid injury and practice for the immobilize, then casually wait it out till they love your job. You're lingering around to get rock face in the distance. You head on over you lose your appetite. They must be following piece. There's a few more sharks around here. Is Ah well, this guy's only like 8 ft long so it the part of your brain responsible for feelings So the killer is still out there, time for another your new home you get a nice tasty whiff. Now that take a deep breath, well not really cause you're wider then go in for your first bite. Okay so far been one for chewing so continue to go back and until you mis-time your bite. Now you're care at all. Everyone seems to be a lot more and it looks like you've even caught someone's hit maturity at around 26 if you're male or 33 if lot about is mating, because we've never seen it. be a popular meeting point. As a female you'll probably because you need room to store up to 10 male can hold on to you is with their jaw. Luckily teeth making it very rough and durable. This to be hydrodynamic so the male can efficiently you pass on your wisdom to seven or eight new pups training is sea turtle so hopefully you'll come opportunity for a quick snack. The water's a bit so using the pores along your body that detect senses you go for a taster bite. Whoops too much bone. But for some reason that massive straightforward, just raw power to break through now there's just one more final boss, but curious species so decide to get closer and pop hopping. Nothing of Interest. As you're swimming anywhere. Okay this can go two ways. If they're you end up as soup. Saved by the plot armor. But like 19 ft long, looking very battle scarred, and out its stomach. That can't be coincidence, this I guess they finally ran out of steam. Right, challenge. Humpback Whale... juvenile. An adult towards South Africa until the opportunity arises, fashion they're double your size, have a ton of especially if you avoid their special attack. So eventually win. Nice now you can eat till your that was a bit pointless then, anyway. You've ruined lives, all to get to a whopping 20 ft long. no one can stand up to you. You've proven you're [Flashback sounds] That's not what you expected. [Music]