So I just got back from Greece, and while I was there I visited Olympia where my favorite Olympian Milo of the entire length of the field just to So to honor Milo and other ancient Greek Olympians marinated calf's liver skewers served So thank you to Hellofresh for sponsoring this this time on Tasting History. So asking the question what did an ancient Greek because the ancient Olympics were panhellenic so men came from all over the Greek as far as Iberia in the west all the way Also the games took place over a very long period of time at least from 776 and so over that span of time Especially because just like today there always When it comes to the very first &quot;Athletes trained on dried figs, So that's easy enough, but not too complicated to about the 6th Century BC when it said that &quot;...Their food was bread made from barley For meat they ate the flesh of So we'll get some figs, some feta cheese, and some of the dry barley bread from it's basically over baked or [Greek clack clack] has turned into hardtack. [clack clack] What we're cooking though is the meat Greek recipe written on a Papyrus that &quot;Cut up good liver, marinate in oil with salt, grill on a spit at high temperature; serve.&quot; Now liver is a rather polarizing meat, so if it's not your cup of tea feel free so you are actually making It's the same thing that you can do when you Like last night when I made they give you the option to have it with ground the pork which paired well with the sweet and and having a choice of protein is really just the beginning because Hellofresh has 40 to fit just about every lifestyle whether or if you're in a rush you can opt All of the ingredients come pre-portioned so you can get right to cooking and And it's not just dinner because Hellofresh now offers breakfasts, lunch, So if you want to start cooking more at home then visit Hellofresh.com and for 16 free meals plus free shipping. This offer is for new subscriptions that's TASTINGHISTORY16 for 16 Now for this recipe which is not from 1 pound or a half kilo of calf's liver, or any other meat. I actually don't even is what is in the ancient Greek recipe but if 9 tablespoons or 135 ml of olive oil, 3 tbsp or 45 ml of red wine vinegar, a small bunch of cilantro chopped up, 2 tablespoonds of thyme leaves, a teaspoon Now that last ingredient might have you saying uh I didn't see asafoetida you're right. It actually called for silphium they actually think that they possibly Turkey but either way you're not going to get Even in ancient Rome when they ran out they switched to using asafoetida. Now one thing you want to be sure of when you're using this ingredient is that you just use It has a really, really strong flavor and especially before it gets They call it Devil's It smells like rotting burnt garlic and onions. Once it's cooked it has a very unique and and if you're going to store it in your pantry make and then put it in there otherwise way. So first take the liver and slice it Then in a large bowl add the vinegar vigorously whisking the entire time. This Continue to whisk until the two are fairly well mixed and then whisk in the as well as the cilantro and thyme. Then add in the chopped liver and mix until Now you can leave this out of the like an hour or better yet put it into the Once the meat has marinated put the and and set it over an open fire or in the oven. I've opted to use a little grill for this one so on the liver, I think it'll help with the texture, and after about 4 minutes on one side just turn the skewers over and cook or until they're cooked all the way through. Cooking it will help with the let those flavors mellow because there for dominance in this dish. You've got the as well as vinegar and cilantro, and very overpowering if you use too much. It's like the Flavor Olympics and before we let's talk about the ancient Greek Olympics The first recorded Olympics took place and were held every 4 years for nearly 1200 years. They began as part of a large religious festival had the great golden statue of Zeus which was Now the athletes that competed were all male Greek male Roman citizens but it was not always safe to travel the city states were always fighting hence in the month surrounding the games a sacred Athletes, officials, and spectators ekecheiria and should you break banned from participating in the Olympics. There was actually one point where the entire Now the link between the games and food starts with the very first winner of He was a man named Koroibos and he was a which was the town that hosted the won him the kotinos or the olive but rather it was because he won the and was at that point in time It was one race so it was quick, and then you know they'd go on It actually wasn't until the 12th Olympic Eventually there were 18 events that included chariot racing, horse racing and the hoplitodromos of the Greek military including and that makes sense because for much of the history of the Olympics it was so many of the games mimicked things that Even the training would be things that were Olympians training by holding 4 horses by their reigns or dressing all in that Less militaristic activities might include just lifting heavy things, like on the isle of Thera sometimes now called found. It weighed 1,060 pounds and it was who had lifted it up off the ground ground. &quot;Eumastas the son of Kritoboulos Now much of this training was done in a gymnasio or gymnasium which is quite different One of the big differences was it but also to train your mind. They would have libraries and are even a number of dialogues Plato and Antiochus which take place in gymnasio. It was all about gaining control over the mind was more centered on your mind, like you would spend an entire day you would have to stand for two full I could go maybe for like 5 minutes. One of the more common ways to focus your was to abstain from sex. A man named Kleitomachos who was a champion boxing and wrestling took his abstenion from If anyone at dinner turned he would stand up and leave, and on the streets if &quot;He saw dogs entwined, he turned away.&quot; He was definitely hardcore any of these sports that involved boxing, because they didn't wear any and the bouts could last up to when somebody either gave up or Lucillus wrote about the face of a fight. &quot;When Ulysses returned to his his dog recognized him immediately. are so unrecognizable after four hours of fighting that neither dogs nor And it's said that Eurydamas a man from Cyrene but swallowed them rather than give his opponent the satisfaction of knowing that he'd knocked most of his teeth out. Though the severity of some of these fights of the later authors like the Greek named Damoxenos once punched &quot;With the sharpness of his nails and the force caught his bowels, and tore them out.&quot; I mean that's some real Mortal Fatality. Perhaps my favorite story of Olympic training and winner of six Olympic Games Milo of Croton. Now he was very likely a real person but the tales of Milo have gone to kind of hard to tell what's real and what's not, but they still give us us Greeks thought were great feats of strength. &quot;He would grasp a pomegranate so firmly that and yet he did not himself crush it. He would stand upon a greased quoit, and make fools of those who charged him He would tie a cord round his Holding his breath and filling with he would break the cord by But most famously it was said that following and would carry it around on his until the next Olympic Games at which weighing like 1,200 pounds so probably not true but still great story. Then he would take the cow and walk the and slaughter it. Then they Details of that are sparse but I'm going to say that they probably marinated it and just like we're doing with the liver today. Either way it would have been a lot of food outlandish stories of Milo of Croton say that he Now whether or not he was actually eating a or even had a cow to eat it is definite that people feasted on because on that last day they would make a They would be brought up to the altar of Zeus and and the smoke or steam would leaving a lot of meat for everybody and for most Greeks that was the only time Though Greek olympians were most of them came from very wealthy and should they win they would would often be given free food for life. Though like Diogenes says at least the Olympians didn't want meat. They wanted dried figs, soft cheese and wheatmeal. It wasn't until Pythagoras came Diogenes says that he &quot;Was the first the first athlete being Eurymenes.&quot; What's interesting is that while many the Pythagoras of Pythagorean Theorem fame Diogenes is not so sure. Yes he does include this tidbit He says that Pythagoras was a vegetarian and so it though according to another ancient writer Pausanias it wasn't Pythagoras at Rather he says it was a long-distance runner named Dromeus of Stymphalos. &quot;He is said to up to this time athletes had But whoever it was by the 6th century BC and had definitely gotten on that meat train. This is the point when Philostratus says that they would eat their barley bread as well Now he was from Athens but was writing at the height of the Roman Empire and he the pre-Rome days in Greece and he says that but they &quot;Washed in rivers and springs... others on beds made of straw they rubbed themselves with the oil of of living made them free from sickness Some of them competed in eight Olympic Games, others for nine, they were They made war a training for athletics, and He laments that the Greek athlete under Roman lazy, soft in a large part due to their diet. &quot;As the Sicilian gluttony for the guts went out of athletics and more important, trainers became too easy on gave us chefs and cooks to please our palates. They turned athletics into Doctors fed us the bread of Mykonos, white bread and introduced the eating of fish, They also introduced the Luckily Philostratus also gave us a way to clock these overeating athletes &quot;You can recognize an athlete who overeats and prominent collarbones, as well Those who drink too much wine have much drinking is noted by a quick pulse.&quot; But if as an athlete preparing for the Olympics worry not for &quot;Those athletes who have eaten too much... so that the excess weight may be removed Oh how I wish it actually worked that way, just like squeezing toothpaste I do appreciate his advice to those who have imbibed a little bit too &quot;An excess of wine in the athlete's body We should not make people in this but we should not excuse them And it is a good rule of thumb not to of partying. There's actually a story of an His name was Gerenos and after he won he decided drinking a lot and eating a bit too much. &quot;As a consequence of this unaccustomed On the third day after his victory he came to the gymnasium and told his and that he felt terrible.&quot; Well the teacher was a bit upset because which was the 4-day training cycle he made the workout even Gerenos just died. 0_0 Which is probably why I'm not cut out that doesn't mean that I can't eat like one. And here we are a meal fit So I'm going to start with the liver even Here we go... So first the good stuff, the uniform and mild. None of the flavors- the very strong flavors are you get that asafoetida. There's definitely like but in a pleasant way, and it's not The liver is not overpowering and that's actually what I was most worried about. So yeah but it doesn't have that metallic taste It's more of an earthy, kind of an Now for the not so nice, I don't like liver. Sorry I'm knocking things The texture is so- I'm expecting meat and I'm getting like really chewy mushroom. It's kind of like just dissolves into grit. :x That's not Like, not a fan of that. I would definitely go But you know it is what it is. Now when it comes to the figs and cheese, I So good. One thing I really love is those two things, the saltiness of the feta They just compliment each other so well and then- [tiny clacks] these, the Creten hardtack. [Clack Clack] Hm. Crunch on this. The flavor is fantastic. So to sum it up: cheese fantastic, figs fantastic, the bread fantastic. Even if it is a little bit hard to eat. And the meat, the flavor A+, the texture F. Just hate that. But you know use a different meat and then it's unique flavor that you're not going to get with around to the end of the video I'm going to share and specifically how he died. There was an old tree stump that was in his town and so he decided that he and tear it out from the ground, but he can't. The tree wedges his arm in, he and lions, or wild beasts So we don't really know what the moral of that inside of a dead tree, it might get I guess that's a good moral, it's a good moral. Anyway make this food or at least some of it, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.