Hi. You're on a rock, floating Well, about 4.5 billion years ago, the earth bombarded by even more rocks from space. Fun inside them, which has now turned into steam. did I mention tha- [it's raining.] at least there's some cool stuff at the bottom, and filled with a bunch of chemicals, that can what the heck is going on here? Biology is the study of life, but really, you and I are basically just a big ball Carbohydrates give you quick energy, lipids store up tissues and nucleic acids make DNA. Also, to beings, have inside of them a bunch of enzymes. which just means they help chemical reactions one specific thing. For example, lactase Ok, so enzymes make life possible but what even is...life? Scientists don't really from a rock. The cat can produce energy by reproduce, and it responds to the Also, unlike rocks, every living thing on two main categories: Eukaryotes and prokaryotes. by membranes, like the nucleus, inside of which is and the DNA is just kind of chilling This is why Prokaryotes are just and archea whereas eukaryotes can form plants and animals. These are what's known so basically, how we classify different living Because there are quite a few species of dangerous cat and water cat wouldn't really be a unique and unambiguous scientific name One thing every species has keeping certain conditions in check, so ya don't if you're cold, your body will shiver. that it balances out concentrations of certain work in a very specific environment, let's say at the enzymes will denature and won't work anymore. up this specific pH value, which is controlled Ok. But like, how does the cell do that? it's a semipermeable phospholipid bilayer, is two layers of these funky looking molecules This allows small molecules like water whereas larger particles like ions need special gives the cell control of what goes in and out. so from a place of high concentration in the case of water, it can also move to a place Welcome to Biology Pro Tips Season 1, tip There's a bunch of salt in saltwater, in which means it will draw water from your cells and The process of balancing out gradients is known by using a little bit of energy, particles The energy comes from Adenosine the highly energetic chemical bonds between the This is kind of important, as needs to make ATP for example, through cellular Together with oxygen, glucose, so sugar, is This is nice, but it only works if you already eat food, inside of which is sugar, Plants on the other hand are "autotrophs". make my own glucose by staring at the sun". You "chloroplasts" inside of which is chlorophyll, green light, which is why most plants look green. water and make a special form of carbon dioxide Okay quick recap, once you have glucose, either respiration, to get energy in the form of ATP. It has a phosphate group, a five carbon sugar and nucleotides? Deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA. with the sugar and phosphate groups, but the which comes in four flavours: Adenine, These bases can form base pairs through and Cytosine goes with Guanine. These bonds Okay, but, how the heck does that store A "gene" is a section of this DNA by carrying a certain sequence of base pairs, Why proteins? Because they're like really act as enzymes and determine the way you look. blue eyes is the amount of a pigment called Gene codes for "P-Protein" which we believe meaning that the proteins made from this gene, Cool! There's just one issue: Your DNA but proteins are made in organelles information from A to B? The answer is RNA. often a single strand, it uses a ribose instead of which makes it less stable, but that's besides Let's say you want to make the protein "RNA polymerase" will split the DNA and make essentially copying the information from the The new strand is called messenger message out of the nucleus to a ribosome. recipe for a protein? Well, on the mRNA, which every group of three bases, which is called which are the building blocks for proteins. to decode a sequence of RNA, there is actually a These amino acids are carried by special which have a unique anticodon that can only The job of the ribosome is to read over codons on which then leave behind their amino acid. As the tRNA, which happens a couple thousand times, the which is just a really long chain of creased, smacked and folded into a protein. which is then used to build proteins Aka transcription and translation. cool, can we learn more? Absolutely. a bunch of DNA? You have about 20000 protein bases long, and that only makes up around 1% of PLUS, almost every cell in your body contains your off depending on the cell, which is good, because making stomach acid, which would not be good. DNA of just one single cell, it Wait a minute, how does that fit into a the nucleus, you wouldn't find the DNA floating actually find lots of these worm looking things. called "Histones", which are then condensed into even more to make tightly packed units of DNA worms. Different sections on a chromosome carry split amongst 23 different chromosomes, although one from the mother and one from the father. said to be homologous, meaning that they carry the two versions of a gene can be different, while the father's gene codes for blue eyes. These For most of your genes, you have 2 alleles, one on can be dominant or recessive, which determines brown eye color is a dominant trait, which is recessive, which is shown by a lowercase b. brown allele, you will have brown eyes, no matter two recessive alleles will it be expressed. Let's look at how this trait is Both of these parents have brown eyes, but genotype. Every child receives one allele possible combinations for the children. brown allele, so the child will have brown eyes. two recessive alleles and has blue eyes, even it's what's on the inside that counts. so simple. Some genes are not fully dominant, but phenotype, so the appearance, appears to mix. red is "dominant" and white is "recessive" gives aka intermediate inheritance. Or, crossing are dominant could give you spotted cow, so both Hey remember how I said almost all there's one exception: the sex chromosomes. males have one X and one smaller Y chromosome. but since the Y chromosome is so small, on the lower part of the X chromosome. If one of these genes is a recessive trait like whereas females probably have another is why most colourblind people are male. the body has to make new cells which can Mitosis, which is how the body makes identical and Meiosis, which is how the body Mitosis starts with a diploid cell, so a cell with of one chromatid, which has to be replicated you see the familiar X shape consisting of split into two identical diploid cells, with two Meiosis also starts with a diploid cell, but and exchange genetic information in a process into two non-identical haploid cells. These consist of 2 sister chromatids. These cells split where each chromosomes has one chromatid. gametes combine into a fertilized egg or "zygote", This is cool, but, cell division is only a tiny time is actually spent in interphase, aka just all of its DNA, so that it actually has enough There's multiple checkpoints in the cell like p53 or cyclin to check if the cell is is not quite right, it's either fixed "apoptosis"...or at least, that's what it should do. but some cells just keep going. This is because and end up replicating out of control and This damaging behaviour is often a result of a base sequence of a gene. This can happen during left out or inserted into the original sequence. gene and let's just say that Another type of mutation happens in chromosomes, deleted, flipped around or transferred between is probably when the 21st pair of chromosomes instead of 2. The result? Down syndrome. but actually, they can also be neutral a species of yellow grasshoppers might blend in with the grass and get eaten less. more green grasshoppers, as their fitness fitness as in, they can have more This is natural selection and the driving species gets selected against and the fittest survives and and has the most offspring, If you think adaptation is cool, yes, humans can get sick from bacteria or viruses, However, what if the bacteria mutates and that's kind of exactly what is happening, Oh yeah by the way, one thing many people confuse same. Bacteria are prokaryotes, so they consist and we treat bacterial infections such as Viruses are not made of cells, in fact, share some signs of life, but they can only so it's not really alive, but it's not dead Also, you cannot treat viral infections with chill out and let your immune system do its thing. actually, you have millions good bacteria inside give them food, and they help you digest it. many complex organ systems that work and I know what you're thinking. Actually The nervous system, consisting of nerves, to your brain, is made of cells called along this long tube called the "axon". all just electrical signals going to your brain, To be exact, the signals are called "action and the same speed every time, so I'm a little cold" and "OMG I AM ON FIRE" is When a neuron is just chilling, the axon is because there's an unbalanced amount ions. This When there is a stimulus, signalling molecules the axon and open them, letting the ions flow and Now, action potentials are all or nothing. but, if the potential exceeds about Ion channels around the stimulus This causes the charge distribution in that which is called "depolarisation". this area are influenced by this and open as well, which causes a chain reaction and sends Some neurons have a myelin sheath made axon and only leave tiny gaps called nodes of can "jump" across the nodes which transmits But either way, at the bottom, the electric signal current neuron to the dendrites of the next. If even touch, there is actually a small gap. This Once the button is depolarized, tiny packages to receptors of following dendrite, either another action potential, which repeats the cycle. should definitely subscribe, and also, if you how math is used in Biology, a resource I can't of interactive lessons for everything from basic They use a hands-on approach so that instead you actually understand and remember what have plenty of real-life applications that you your problem-solving skills along the way. lets you interact with scientific principles and the physics behind playing snooker of relativity...Sounds cool if you ask me. have to offer for free for a full 30 days by also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.