&gt;&gt; DEL: There are who look at those early chapters in Genesis and one that the Bible is So therefore we can't really at the universe around us. What's your perspective as &gt;&gt;STEVE: I would say, well, it's clearly historical -- again, it's a magisterial and it's a foundational It also has It's what we call It's what do you see. It's what do you experience And so and that's &gt;&gt; DEL: Well, can you take me through it and show me what you're talking about? &gt;&gt; STEVE: Absolutely. We'll work here It's the easiest to read. I'm most familiar with this. &gt;&gt; DEL : It's the easiest &gt;&gt; STEVE: But it begins with Genesis And then we have I mentioned the Toledot has And so Genesis 1:1-2:3, And it actually starts "In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.&quot; And the details are given in subsequent verses. It starts with "in the beginning There's no word in Hebrew for universe. That means He created everything. And then the next thing we find in Genesis 1:2, we find a water ball, and it's empty and unfilled. God, in the subsequent days, Before that His first act of creation, because it's the mind of God bringing from nothing everything, everything so that the physical laws, so that the light can work. So that life processes can develop. All those things God puts those into place and then He creates light and so forth. Then He creates and spreads out the heaven. It's very purposeful the way in which creation is presented. For instance, in Genesis 1:9, the best way to translate that is that &quot;in order that the dry land would appear.&quot; We don't have -- in the Hebrew That the gathering... let the waters gather together into one place in order that the dry land might appear. Why? Because the dry land is where man will live. Its purposeful. It's all moving And so it's very purposeful, God's creation is that way -- very organized as you would expect. And so His Word is the same way. And that's why it has all these characteristics, why it's so creative, why it's beautiful literature, And then we get And then, the sixth day, animals and then man. And man is created in His image and we go then, as we go through Genesis 1:1-2:3, by that preface we also find in there a little section of poetry. And so it goes from poetry -- it goes from narrative to poetry to narrative -- I call it a narrative-poetry switch. And because that little section of poetry is used to punctuate the prose at the point of the creation of man in God's Image. And now there's a lot of ideas about the Image of God -- what does that mean? I think that the Image of God is found in the verbs itself. Because what we find is -- what does God do? And we do the same thing, but at a lower level. We can communicate. Of course He speaks things into existence. We can't do that. But He communicates. We can create. We can create a place like this with lights and so forth and so on. Of course, He creates out of nothing. He pronounces things good. We evaluate and do things like that. We label -- science is all about labeling. We name things like that. We bless as He blessed. I think the Image of God is right in the text. It's not some metaphysical thing like Augustine said of mind, will, and emotions. No, it's right in the verbs in the text. And then we move from Genesis 1:1 -2:3 then into the details of the creation of man and how the name of God changes. It changes from Elohim which means the premier one, the pre-eminent one. Elohim. And we move from there to Elohim, Yahweh Elohim. Yahweh, which is the covenant name. It's then about the creation of man and the way the creation of man is described is that God created man artistically. The verb is Yatsar. A yatsar is a potter. And so he's created artistically and then we have the intimate action of God breathing into him the breath of life. And then He creates man, We have the prohibition not to eat a certain fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And then, of course, woman was created. Marriage and, of course, we have another wonderful poetic section in which Adam waxes poetic when Eve was brought to him. Just like every man does when he finds his wife -- all of a sudden he can start to recite poetry out of nowhere. And then we have the Fall. There are those who want to deny the Fall. They'll say, &quot;Well, this is just an account of why man's afraid of snakes.&quot; That's all they say it is. It's obviously much more than that. Apostle Paul says in Romans 16:20, he talks about &quot;may the Lord crush...may the Lord Jesus crush Satan under your feet.&quot; This is obviously a reference back to Genesis. With the Fall...we have the...Man is actually not cursed. The ground is cursed and the Serpent is cursed. But man is judged. Adam is judged and Eve is judged. We have the expulsion from the Garden and death comes. But death becomes the means of life. Because man can die, Adam can die, then Christ one day can die. And die for our sins. And so God turns things always- turns things around like that way. And then we have in Chapter 4, we have just the opposite of what evolutionary biologists and anthropologists are saying. The ascent of man. We have the descent of man. The first man who was cursed is Cain for murdering his brother. In his line we come upon one of his descendants by the name of Lamech. And Lamech, what he does -- and again, in one of those N.P.N. switches, he boasts to his wives in poetry that he murdered a man. Taking the wonderful idiom of poetry, which is to be used to express And then we come to Chapter 5 of Genesis which begins a series of 10 genealogies that go from 5:1-9:29. Here we have a Toledot, the book of the Toledot of Adam. And what we find here is the record of the death of Adam. God said when you eat you're going to die. And here we have the death of Adam -- and we have that like a hammer blow, over and over again. And he died. And he died. Except Enoch. So we have in these 10 genealogies there's four that are different. Enoch's is different. Adam's is different because it talks about that he had a son in his image. Lamech's is different -- the good Lamech -- because he prays that his son Noah will deliver mankind from the results of the Curse. And that's in Genesis 5:28. And then in Noah's genealogy, we have the entire Flood account. And the Flood -- is a un-creation. It's an un-creation of the world. Until it gets to the point that the Ark is traveling no longer above the Earth, but upon the water. You can see that it's returned to a complete water ball, going back to what it started at in Genesis 1:2. When the waters are receding, the same wording is used when the mountaintops appear, the same wording that is used in Hebrew that is used in Genesis 1:9 -- that the dry land ... In order that the dry land might appear. So we find these deliberate allusions to Creation that the Lord is remaking the Earth. And the Flood -- is it a global flood? Well, I, mean, I don't know how many times, I think 35 times or so, the word Kol, which is &quot;all&quot;, occurs in the Flood narrative. If this is a judgement on mankind then it has to be global, for the sin of mankind. The way it's described, the highest mountains this is a global flood. And why would you save the animals? After the Flood they and then we have the... and we have the first words curses his son Ham. So, there are the first words of Noah. Noah says nothing during the Flood narrative. He just obeys God, whatever God tells him to do, you know, make this boat 450 feet long and, you know, 75 feet wide and 45 feet high. Make that boat, make that boat. Says Noah did whatever And as we continue through these which are the sons of Noah. It mentions in that chapter in their different nations So, we now go back, Moses goes back to Genesis This is one of the -- again, one of the issues that evolutionists have a hard time. Where does language come from? They can't explain, they can't explain they can't explain language. And so we understand that all the languages come from a judgment of God who are trying to make Now the word in Hebrew Only God can make And they're trying to make and again it's a text And as you read you keep hearing these certain sounds, and when you string them together, it spells the word Nebelah, which is the word &quot;folly&quot;. And so this is not a tower which is going to establish them as these great people, but it's a tower of folly. This is a task of folly to be as great as God. Then it continues, the narrative continues The genealogy continues The difference between Chapter that in each geneological no mention of death. Of course, people died. so it's like a new beginning to shrink of the Patriarchs. We don't know exactly why. And that's something and so forth are going You know, why that happened. And then as we move we come to the Toledot of Terah. And the Toledot of Terah It's going to be And then from then Moses always will, first of all, give a brief genealogy So, after Abraham we we go to Ishmael then we go to Isaac. we don't go directly to Jacob, and then to Jacob. And then Genesis ends -- a descendant of Jacob, All of God's promises are So, it sets us up perfectly -- the perfect cliffhanger &gt;&gt; DEL: Steve, when you just walked through that with me, it just seems so apparent that the latter parts of the genealogy and the story of Terah that there is no disconnect and everything that we It's just one long is it not? &gt;&gt;STEVE: It is. As a matter of fact, the genealogies form the structure not just for Genesis, but the narratives are embedded The genealogies are picked up -- the Toledot -- in the book that David is which is required that the scepter nor a law giver between his feet until Shiloh comes So, this is a prophecy that must be in Judah. So, it's established and it uses the Toledot formula. And then we move how is the pedigree but with two genealogies -- one going back through Mary's showing that he is And then we have in the Book of Matthew the genealogy And the important thing is that it goes back that's the royal line. But Jesus' actual physical it's through another son But we have these genealogies, two genealogies establishing as both the son of David &gt;&gt;DEL: Let's just step back for a second How important is that we find throughout Genesis that are laid out? How important is &gt;&gt;STEVE: It shows that Christianity has a historical basis. The way the Gospel is presented that Jesus died according It's what the Scriptures say and the Scriptures represent historical events. And that He rose again So, Christianity is It is an understanding that has a very and that our Savior