The electronic expansion valve controls the the evaporator. This is based on the demand valve to achieve a certain superheat, that avoids You'll find expansion valves from refrigeration and air conditioners, to temperature control, better energy efficiency, and in expansion valves. We will cover the main the electronic expansion valve itself, along with a brief explanation of superheat. The found in refrigerant circuits. If you you can find the link in the description below. the amount of refrigerant that can to the low side. The refrigerant passes Once this refrigerant passes the expansion where the liquid refrigerant absorbs heat from the causes the refrigerant, the liquid refrigerant, to on the demand for cooling, the expansion valve needed. When the superheat controller, monitoring to maintain an optimally low superheat value, translate into energy savings. There are various and variations on how they function. We'll cover and some of the components that allow it to that you'll find in some of the electronic What is superheat? It's all about maintaining the a minimum amount of super heated refrigerant compressor is important for the protection of Compressors are not made to handle liquid vapor enters the compressor, otherwise you can allows you to adjust the parameters and set Each refrigerant has different characteristics Using the two buttons on the superheat controller make any setting required, or view system states, and evaporating temperature. The display and its to retrieve service gauges and thermometers to an accurate method of ensuring that you not too little, or too much refrigerant, but Superheat occurs when the refrigerant in the and then additional heat is added to the gas. The into a gas, by adding additional heat after the the temperature of the refrigerant gas becomes of gas entering compressor minus the boiling For example, if your refrigerant boils at the point at which the refrigerant liquid turns temperature of the vapor to rise, let's say to This would give you 10 degrees of superheat. but an additional temperature sensor may be used This extra water temperature may be controlled a level sufficient to prevent flood back, The job of the expansion valve is to make sure refrigerant injected into it, no matter what done by using a super heat controller, pressure with the electronic expansion valve, to constantly each of these components now. Expansion valve super heat controller calculates the superheat, the expansion valve opening to allow an accurate demand. This precisely controls the amount based on the super heat of the refrigerant. and wired connections, for the various input or temperature sensor, or remote monitoring Some of them have alarms. The controller can system, such as high or low superheat, bad minimum or maximum temperatures, this error code on its LED display which corresponds to identify the problem area. Some of the the feature of a hotkey that allows you to program the hotkey where you can then easily transfer the settings. By plugging the hotkey into all those it saves a lot of time when you have multiple monitoring. This feature allows you to connect to of the controller can be done remotely. Battery shut off capabilities or uses a solenoid valve to periods such as during a power outage, then that's where this feature provides connectors for Power Supply. Pressure transducer. The pressure expansion valve controller with the current suction line to the compressor. The Temperature the electronic expansion valve controller in order the system. With the temperature from the sensor, the controller can determine the superheat of the the electronic expansion valve. The Electronic refrigerant flowing through the expansion valve is than a thermal expansion valve. This accuracy of the system by preventing wasteful amounts of There are various manufacturers of EEV's or EXV's, such as Emerson, Danfoss, Sporlin or Corel, each But the premise is the same, the desire to and provide efficient amount of refrigerant is Some of the components of this particular is the permanent magnet motor, number two you adjust number three, there the needle valve which number four is your high pressure liquid evaporator where it becomes low pressure liquid. doesn't rotate continuously like your typical steps in either direction to precisely control the valve. It takes baby steps in the tune of 200 to to over 6,000 steps for larger models. One which is equivalent to in a 360 degree circle, 15 degrees for 24 steps, or 3.6 degrees for a times 100 that would get you 360 degrees, which this does not run continuously but in small steps. like the Parker's Sloan Electronic Expansion Valve that can indicate the moisture level of the the valve, and provides a visual confirmation feature for system refrigerant charging service an electronic expansion valve are, one, determine then determine the capacity required for the the pressure drop across the valve, then determine entering the valve, that's going to be based on then select a valve from the manufacturer's you like that video please give it a thumbs