Stay inside Do you know the rules here? arrange Help! Climb what don't run What are you going to do? How are you? Are you injured? I'm fine, thank you. Twenty-first Street is your home, right? You have an eight-year-old son. Listen to me I'm going out tomorrow Move her again. You'll never see your son again. Did you hear clearly? what happened what happened We don't know But I think you should take her to see a doctor. EAK TATTOO GROUP no What's wrong with your face? Who hit it? Wait for me to go in. When I get in, I'll kill her. Wait till you come in Just you Who can you kill? How is my mother's health recently? Auntie is in good health recently. It's her brain. Still the same Go to the hospital to see my mother OK Where is Auntie? You stay here Who are you? I'm back, mom. I don't know you Don't come over here Don't come over here Okay, I won't go. Turn around Look at me I am Ruonan Young man Unknown mom I'm not your mother and I don't have any children. No children I my child My child My child When I was very young It's gone there is none left there is none left there is none left well Let's not talk about your children. Don't cry, don't worry. It's so late You must not have eaten. I'll take you to eat Is your favorite Hainanese chicken rice good? Officer Wu Mr. Hayashi Come come come sit sit Sit well Is there any news? There is news. But they are not in the country at all. So where are they? Du Xiaoyue and Du Ruonan, mother and daughter Last October I signed up for a seven-day tour in Thailand. The two of them disappeared midway. Gone yes They were not the only two missing. There is also a man named Su Zijie What about Su Zijie? Place of residence With Du Xiaoyue and Du Ruonan, mother and daughter All together They are all in the same jurisdiction And the kidnappers who kidnapped your daughter before It also confirmed This Su Zijie and Du Ruonan are friends So I doubt it. They are probably trying to avoid debt. Directly black in Thailand What city abroad are they in? Missing Bangkok Bangkok Young man Come home with me Didn't we agree not to fight? Why don't you listen to me? Here again? I just looked at it. I didn't say I was going to go. Just watch it if you agree. dad What are you looking for? Where did I put my bank card? Why can't I find me? Isn't your bank card behind the photo frame? Look at my brain. I put it there myself. You said this Last time you said You said you were afraid you couldn't remember the password Write the password on the card Then you worry about The thief stole the card Then you hide behind If you hadn't told me this I can't find it even if I search for a whole day. dad Why are you looking for a bank card? I am not I can't remember where I put this. So I'll go look for it. This man is really not good at his age. How about this? You closed the food stall. How about I earn money to support my family in the future? That won't work. I can't hold you back. I've thought about this. I just work day by day. If I really can't do it anymore I'll leave this house to you. I'm moving to a nursing home. There are nurses and doctors there. Clothes come to you, food comes to you And these old men and old ladies are together again How nice it is to play mahjong and chat Not good at all I'm not sending you to a nursing home. OK This this You just can't figure it out. I'm telling you This card is for your wedding. This card is for me to use when I go to a nursing home. Why do you mention nursing homes? You want to mention the nursing home again? I'm anxious with you Okay, okay, I won't mention it anymore. Don't mention it anymore. This Xiaoya You said going abroad What procedures are required? What's wrong, Dad? Do you want to go abroad? What's wrong Your dad can't go abroad. I've lived for half my life. I have never left the country. How unfair it is to me I took advantage of this time when my legs and feet were still sharp. I travel abroad That's right Isn't this a popular saying now? Call him for a spontaneous trip Dad, what's wrong with you? Congratulations, you finally figured it out. So where do you want to go, Dad? I recommend you go to Europe Between European countries Very close You need to go out How many countries can you play? No, no, no No in Europe European English speaking I don't understand That's right I heard that guy in our alley Your uncle Liu said Some time ago, the couple What trip did you take to Southeast Asia? It's fun. And not far away The Chinese there mostly speak Mandarin Then I want to ask for directions. What to eat Well, that's convenient for me. You said All right, all right As long as you are happy You can go wherever you want As long as you stop wasting your time All spent on me You go enjoy life I raise my hands in favor How about this? These days I checked online I'll make a guide I'll contact a better travel agency. Make a trip for you Don't worry about it. Leave it to me. OK good Then I'm going to sleep first. You should go to bed early too. Don't watch TV all the time, it's bad for your eyes knew We have agreed Can only watch but not access Du Ruonan, come back Didn't we say it's okay? Duruo I promised you to watch but not fight. You lied to me again Look at the injuries on your body. Auntie will feel sad when she sees this. Can we stop boxing? You're not boxing. You are trying your best. The money you make from driving. What is it? I can't make much money driving a car. But it won't be life-threatening. You keep hitting me like this. You didn't wait for us to return home. You die here again Can you say something auspicious? Don't you like hitting me? As long as you don't fight black boxing You can beat me every day. Is it possible? Seriously speaking I calculated I sold the car later. Plus the remaining deposit for renting the house Three tickets should be enough. Go back home by yourself no We won't return home What are we doing here? We have been drifting for a year Stay here At least I can still live Going back Not jail time They were beaten to death. I am not afraid of death I'm used to being in jail. What about my mom? What should she do? Why are you going You wait for me Is it delicious? tasty Look at this can. This is what I experienced when I was sick as a child. You buy me that can. A brand Don't talk about Su Zijie. He really has some skills. In a Chinese supermarket in Thailand Turned it out for him Haven't eaten for a long time. sweet Still the same taste Aunt Peaches are delicious Thank you, Zijie You said you could find a way Mom, please don't be polite to him. This is the kind of job he loves doing. Young man Look what I found UFC Tour Tickets I'll take you to watch the game later. No Don't price it. This ticket is hard to get now. Ticket prices are extremely high It's not easy for me I got it through a talented person. Can you take the money Spend it in the right place in the future Back out immediately I don't mean to see that you like this thing I just found the ticket for you. Can you just accompany me to see it? Just go with Zijie. You said you bought this ticket. What a waste! I'll talk to you later. You eat this peach first. Shut my mouth Come You'll regret it if you don't watch it. Come, I'll eat it myself Are you ready? Prepare start Sister, let's calm down. This is Kunta There won't be any problem. Don't worry Those guys are all desperadoes. This kind of trick They've done more. Boss Thank you, bro Thanks Are you ready? Be ready What about the ransom? What if Quinta took the money? What if the ransom is swallowed? You don't have to worry about this In your name Opened an offshore account Let the ransom be transferred to this account first As soon as the ransom is paid I will transfer half to Kunta immediately. As long as Kunta and the others receive the money Nature will let you go Uncle, you also know about offshore accounts Although I have been in prison for twenty years But it should be clear I know a little bit But why did you use my name? Open an offshore account What if I'm found out? Don't worry about this. There are relevant protection laws there The agent will not disclose Account holder information If that's the case, Why don't you use your own name? Open an offshore account? Because of arranging the transfer I have to do it uncle I can also do the transfer. You can't do it Because you have to go to Thailand Transaction with Quinta in person Go to Thailand uncle According to your statement It's not that as long as the Ou family gives the money Deposit into this offshore account Is this the end of this matter? I know Ou Changlin too well. If he can't see Ouyang It is impossible to spend such a large sum of money Direct transfer Even if we go to Thailand to trade in person The Ou family would never allow an outsider like me to Follow along If you can't think of one Ways to go together That's it, then. Because it's too dangerous. There is no one trustworthy person in there. I don't dare to do this Ouyang, stop practicing. You keep practicing like this. I will be exhausted in the game soon. You better leave him alone. He can do whatever he wants. If he stops now He will only get more nervous. Ouyang Don't give yourself That's a lot of pressure. No one asks you to win him. You just treat it as a A normal game You must face it with a normal heart This is not the place for you Chinese Beauty I just came to say hello This is not the place for a playboy like you. It's coming You should go home Go to sleep with your girlfriend You are enough You don't leave I'll ask the staff to chase you away. Okay baby I'm leaving now Girl, do you want to come to my room? go out Shut up good abnormal Ouyang I take back what I just said No matter what method you use Must win Yes, you must win Annoying Let's go careful come on 3 Are you ready? Are you ready? start Stop jumping around like a monkey. Fight me like a man. That guy is a bit on the edge. Why do I feel that foreigners are a little bit suspicious? If he's in good shape It's not impossible to win Ouyang, get up! You get up Ouyang Don't worry, hold on. It hurts. It hurts. pain This is Kimura lock. It's the fighting master Masahiko Kimura Technology first used in 1955 It is also in the current mixed martial arts competition A frequently used submission technique Best suited for larger opponents But this lock is not unbreakable. As long as the opponent rolls forward The reverse joint can be restored immediately. so The key to this trick working Just hold his waist tightly with your legs It's that simple It's that simple foul He fouled. He fouled. He fouled It's a foul, do you understand? Foul Deduct one point Return to your location Ouyang How are you Ouyang Did he step on you just now? Son of a bitch I'm gonna tear his mouth apart return Your trick doesn't work here. Ouyang How's your arm? Can you still hold on? no problem Two more rounds You must hold on Don't let yourself get hurt. come on Come on, Ouyang Ouyang Ouyang Stand up Ouyang Ouyang Ouyang Ouyang Stand up Ouyang How about it Ouyang Let's stop fighting, okay? If you keep going like this, you'll be beaten to death. Why did you only use your right arm? Why doesn't the left hand fight back? You dislocated your arm. Help hurry up Help Help me put my arm back on. I can still fight Lin Meiya, can you do it? Ouyang I trust you Come Are you okay? Are you okay? Is it ok? Is it ok? There's one last round left. You must win him. certainly start Lock him up Lock him up Don't let go Come on, come on Come on, come on Persist in Ouyang persist in What did I say? Speaking of strength Foreigners are still strong This guy can win. It's all about luck and perseverance Not Ruonan Look at that woman. How come I look like you? Same? I see, they are totally different. No, except for the hairstyle. What's the difference? Young man You won't have a long lost Twin sisters from the same mother I've read too many novels. This is too similar Don't move Here, here, here right What are we going to do later? Of course, I went back to the hotel to rest. There's a second round tomorrow. He's been beaten like this. It's the second round. Okay, okay. Never mind tomorrow's game. We now have another There's something very important to do. What's up Celebrating victory, of course. A big meal What happened? Security The management is quite strict Male Female Male Male Man, you go. You go get him. What are you looking at me for? I understand What to do now Drive your car Sit tight hurry up What's wrong Who are they? You two stay in the car for a while. I'll go down and take a look You be careful Who are they? No, no, no Annoying I know Aren't you just seeking money? so I'm here There is a card There is the equivalent of half a million U.S. dollars in it. No password Five hundred thousand dollars? money Take it Don't touch me Don't touch me Who are you? Let me go. open What are you going to do? Hurry up and don't lose me Weiwei Weiwei gets off Don't touch me get off the bus Don't touch me I won't get off the bus if I don't go. Don't touch me You let me go, let me go Go fast Go fast open Put me down Don't touch me Put me down and save my life Help Shut up Don't touch me Put me down Put me down You put me down open Let me go Let me go Don't touch me Let go, don't touch me What are you going for? I'm going to save people. No, there are only two of us. How can such a large group of people be saved? Not the eldest sister You're not going to call the police, are you? no Listen to me Let's not worry about who these two groups are. Judging from their behavior This must be together Premeditated kidnapping Kidnapping? It's nothing more than seeking money If we don't call the police What if they were killed? I won't tear up the ticket. Look at these two gangs making such a big move. The kidnapped person must be very rich As long as you have money They won't tear up the tickets. Instead, you call the police now. When the police arrived, there was a chaotic fight They are desperate This is easy to tear the ticket. Su Zijie, why are you so nagging? Go by yourself Not the eldest sister I beg you, can you please? That girl just looks like you. Maybe it has nothing to do with you. It's okay. What's wrong? We don't have to do this for them. Lost my life Even if it doesn't matter Are you all Chinese? no Hello OK, I know. What happened? My mother's illness relapsed Then let's go back quickly Auntie is alone in the hospital What if something else happens? Let me go and shut up you Let me go Don't move you Put me down, put me down, don't Let me go Walk Lin Meiya, please save me Locked up over there Don't touch me Let me go Be honest Lin Meiya Ouyang Ouyang Can you hear me? Lin Meiya Ouyang won't die, right? Drink for everyone Bring him out yes What are they going to do? stop Let those two women go. Give me the car keys quick quick Quick quick Annoying Stop fighting I beg you, please stop fighting. Stop hitting him. He is dying stop Let those two women go. Give me the car keys Quick Let those two women go. Give me the car keys What are you watching? It's so noisy. Let those two women go. Give me the car keys Quick Hello Ouyang He's just fine for now. but It depends on your performance What are the requirements here? 20 million US dollars 20 million US dollars Can Can But you have to ensure the safety of three people Tomorrow morning at ten I will deposit the money into your account Ten o'clock is not possible Time is too tight I didn't have time to deploy funds. Before 3 p.m. But I have a request What What to ask for Face-to-face transactions What Face-to-face transactions Can't no You decide where to trade I will send only a few people to see you On-site transfer That's your place We won't play any tricks. I require that when trading Check if my son is alive Annoying After you kidnapped Ouyang Use Ouyang's phone to call his father According to Ou Changlin's character He will definitely ask for a face-to-face transaction I won't agree to do this No, you have to agree You can transfer the transaction amount Increased to 30 million I only want the 10 million we agreed on. Why you should do this I have my reasons. And you can get an extra 10 million This is good for both of us. good Thirty million US dollars Thirty million US dollars Face-to-face transactions Time remains unchanged Good thirty million The trading location remains unchanged How can I contact you Make this call? No I will contact you Hello Who did it? Where is Ouyang now? Thanks dad Xiaorui Such a big thing happened at home Why did you bring an outsider here? Don't be afraid They just want a ransom. Ouyang will be fine. But what if something happens to him? Otherwise, let me drive it. Need not No matter how you two fight, He is your brother after all. At this time One more person, one more strength I'll go back with you. dad He is not an outsider He is my boyfriend This time I went to Thailand My only request Just make sure The safety of the three of them Nothing else matters Chairman, rest assured I will do my best dad The amount of money they asked for was so huge. We have such a short time How can I raise it? Don't worry about the ransom. I can give half of it. Li Dong These kidnappers' target is Ouyang Weiwei was completely implicated I felt guilty. So this matter Just don't worry about it. The ransom issue I've solved it Don't worry dad Where did you get such a large sum of money? Now is not the time to explain this A dragon Tomorrow morning You take the earliest flight. Go to Thailand yes I'll go with him. no I have to go Ober, listen to me. Ouyang and Meiya are preparing to return to China from Paris It's because our Weiwei is too willful Go to Thailand to find him I asked Ouyang to bring Weiwei back. That's why the incident happened In this matter I have an unshirkable responsibility So I have to go to my uncle I know Ou Changlin too well. If he can't see Ouyang It's impossible to spend such a large sum of money Direct transfer Even if we go to Thailand to trade in person The Ou family can't Let me, an outsider, go with you. If you can't think of one Ways to go together That's it, then. Chairman Please let me go too. You don't have to go What happened between you and Xiaorui? Let's talk about this later. Chairman My story with Xiaorui You can do whatever you want to me. But right now The situation in Thailand is unclear The other side may have more people than them. We have one more person here. Just one more strength Chairman Please believe me I just want to do my best All right Chairman Should we make this matter Communicate with the Embassy in Thailand Have them send local police to assist us don't want The other party has asked us Very few people participated Calling the police would alert the enemy. My only request now Just to ensure that the three of them Can come back safely Don't make things complicated One more thing Such a big accident Lin Meiya's Family Should I tell him? I don't think so If all goes well We'll be back the day after tomorrow. Tell her family now. Except for making him worry It's useless. Ouyang Ouyang Ouyang Stop shouting I heard If you shout again, they will wake up. You scared me to death Are you okay? What can I do? I'm so strong Still so tough fine Ouyang You must promise me No matter what happens You really can't be like this again So impulsive. We are safe here. Okay? If you die How can I be so weak? I'm fine. Look I can still dance alright How about it Hurry up and stop making trouble If I die Will you be sad? If you die What I want to say to you There's no chance to tell. What do you want to say to me? I listen If we make it out alive I'll tell you good Then I'll wait Weiwei Weiwei Don't be afraid Weiwei, what's wrong with you? What's wrong Weiwei has a high fever I guess it's because of excessive shock. Get up, get up quickly Our people are sick now. Need water and medicine Shut up and kill you What's up? Boss I know you understand Chinese She has a fever now. Very serious We need water and medicine Ouyang's father The money is already on the way. Can you give us some water and medicine? Bring me a bottle of water. Thanks You're going too far. dad dad dad Son of a bitch The user you dialed is temporarily unavailable Please call again later Please bear with it for a while. We'll be out soon. We will be fine, trust me. How is Li Weiwei? Are you feeling better? I feel like the fever has subsided a little bit. I'll help her push this acupoint a few more times Should be backing off soon. Okay, Lin Meiya I didn't expect you could do this. When I was little My dad was desperate and tried all kinds of treatments. What is Chinese medicine and Western medicine? Folk remedies As long as it can cure my illness He is willing to try This is pediatric massage But it works for adults too I had a fever when I was a kid My dad pushed me like this Push it a few times and the fever will go away So magical Is she feeling better? We have to push it a little longer. You are always so wholehearted Consider others Who has thought about you? Aren't you thinking about me? right I'm just thinking about you. to be honest You are really excellent. I said before that you have a missing string in your brain. I take it back actually You are kindhearted Have a sense of justice You are optimistic and free-spirited The whole body exudes a kind of Irresistible vitality and tenacity Without you This press conference I'm probably gonna screw it up. I watched you desperately When I change my mind I'm really touched. I'm thinking What kind of power does your body have? Let you resolutely again and again Trying hard to strive for You have a really big influence on me. Did I hear that correctly? Are you praising me? right I'm just praising you and You are becoming more and more important to me. Suddenly found Don't move Carefully exploring to find the answer Like a drifting ship Longing to reach the shore No matter how big the storm is Can't stop it I'm willing to give up everything for you But I can't take my eyes off you Since when can't leave I'm not afraid of losing my job Uncle Li told me If I lose my job one day I can go to work for him. The salary and benefits are no worse than yours. I don't eat anymore This broken apple gives me a headache The simplicity without the glitz Until forever Until forever Until forever Lin Meiya What are you doing? You woke up How do you feel now? What's wrong with me You have a fever And it's serious I'll try You have a fever, right? Why is your face so hot? Your face is so red Miya Are you okay? fine I opened an offshore account in your name Let the ransom be transferred to this account first As soon as the ransom is paid I will transfer half to Kunta immediately. As long as Kunta and the others receive the money Nature will let you go Chen Zhe You are not worthy of my daughter. This time I went to Thailand Don't come back. You can only blame yourself. If that's the case, Why don't you use your own name? Open an offshore account? Because of arranging the transfer I have to do it uncle I can also do the transfer. You can't do it Because you have to go to Thailand Transaction with Quinta in person Go to Thailand Ou Changlin You exposed me for illegal fundraising. Tax evasion Let me be punished for all my crimes I was put in jail for 19 years. Now I'll pay you back with your son's life. I think that's the best I can do. How about it no problem How long do we have to wait? Start now Where to go Oshiro Let's go Lin Meiya How long have you been pressing it for me? I've been pressing it all night. Not as exaggerated as he said. Weiwei This acupuncture point is very effective in reducing fever When I was a kid, I would get a fever My dad pushed me like this Push it a few times The fever will go away Then you should take a break. My fever has gone away That won't work. This round hasn't been completed yet. Your fever this time It's caused by shock. Invasion of foreign pathogens But don't worry Ouyang's father has already told them all We're going to trade face to face. It won't take long We should be able to get out. We'll have water to drink then. There are many delicious things to eat Lin Meiya Thank you alright Stop talking now. You need to conserve your energy I used to be so mean to you But you are still so nice to me now sorry alright Xiaoya Xiaoya Are you here, mom? Xiaoya is here My mother calls me Xiaoya whenever she gets sick I used to think My mom just called me by the wrong name. But now it seems She must have called the wrong person. you mean You have a twin sister named Xiaoya Please Wake up! How can there be such a coincidence in the world? You have a twin sister coming to Thailand. You just happened to see it. I said, sister People who look the same in this world Too many and Maybe they have been released by those people. Let's just stop thinking about this, okay? I'm hungry I said I was hungry I'll buy you some food. Who are you? What do you want to do? His name is Shachu The man I killed yesterday He's his brother. So now he hates you. You killed him. Why should he hate me? It's not the place, right? Why haven't they come yet? Don't worry, wait a little longer Here it comes Don't move Do you know what's going on with them? Stable n{ 8 Send money immediately Don't move yet Ouyang and the others are not here What to do then The money is in this I can transfer it to you at any time But I have to see the hostage. No stop If you kill him You won't get the money. Your people are safe Money received I let go This is in line with our previous agreement It seems a little different It's against the rules. Fifteen minutes left before the transaction You won't get your money at three o'clock. All your people died. You three Can't run actually No, no, no Everyone is seeking money Don't get excited. Don't get excited. We now turn Transfer money now no Can't trust them You are crazy Do we have a choice now? No time Stop arguing. What are you doing? Don't mess around. What do you want to do? go out Please What? What are you going to do? Put me down Start Put me down open Let her go Don't touch her open open roll Walk Away Walk Away Let me go open Let me go Help! Help don't want Don't mess around. Let me go Please stop Son of a bitch I miss you and your brothers Nothing more than seeking money It won't kill anyone, right? I'll say it again I really brought the money. I can transfer it to you in a minute. I can't see you But I have to hear their voices. I want to make sure each of them All still alive Everyone was unharmed. Ming Zi? Annoying Walk Away Help Let me go sjvi Are you okay? fine Let's go Have you hugged enough? Enough of hugging, get out of here quickly How come she looks exactly like you? I don't know either Let's get out of here quickly. I think something is not right. Why did he talk on the phone for so long? I don't think he'll tear up the ticket. Can't be sure yet They didn't receive the money. There should be no action Stable Play it by ear good Hello, what's going on? Just answering the phone now Boss The person was rescued You want people to be safe look I said I want to hear it with my own ears Their voices on the phone I won't believe the recorded video. Transfer Money quick All I need is the password. password speed The password is not with me No, no I don't know He He At his place At his place Give me the password Quick, quick, quick Before we confirm that our people are safe Can't give him the password Tell him the password Otherwise I will kill you Then you shoot. Annoying It's just for money, don't be so angry After all, you haven't received the money yet, right? Transfer Money hurry up I am a contact person I am a contact person Transfer Money Turn quickly Jiang Yilong Jiang Yilong Give him Here Look How about it Password entered Just need to confirm Hostage Annoying Don't move Don't move. Who dares to move? Your boss is going to be shot in the head today. Chen Zhe Put away your computer If you don't want to die Let your people disperse immediately spread spread spread I can't believe it. We actually escaped Is this a victorious escape? Du Ruonan, why are you like this? You came here without telling me. If I hadn't arrived in time or Stop talking nonsense. drive You are Du Ruonan You know me They are catching up. Hurry up. good I hired you. Why You are dead The money is all mine impossible My people will only give you half Your people Your people What to do? Drive faster! Drive faster! Hurry up, hurry up Already the fastest The throttle is turned all the way down. Otherwise you come and open They are catching up from behind. Hurry up. Come on, hurry up. Open quickly Please step on the accelerator a little more. The fastest already Faster, faster. Lie down quickly Don't move Don't move Don't move Don't move Don't move Don't move Don't move Don't move Don't move stand up Don't move Hands up Yellow Hair Come here, I'll drive. What? I'll open it. You come Don't chase Be careful Ouyang Handlebar Help! Good job What are you going to do? How about it Are you okay? fine Are you all right? Gone Are you all right? How did you escape? A narrow escape OK Let's talk when we meet. Okay, we'll wait for you. Thank you so much Thanks to you guys, nothing happened this time. Should Keeping our citizens safe It is our responsibility Fortunately you called us before The Consul General takes this matter very seriously. Contacted Thailand directly Fortunately, nothing happened. How are you Are you okay? It's okay, just a flesh wound How about you? Are you injured? I'm fine Just be safe and sound Fortunately, the money was not transferred out. We have succeeded. right That's OK I'll report peace to my family. Come and eat quickly Give me a pair of chopsticks You didn't answer me just now. You know me I was kidnapped as you before. It was Ouyang who saved me Do you really owe them a lot of money? Lin Meiya Do you think this is important? Now what everyone wants to know most is Why do you two look exactly the same? Right, Li Weiwei? Lin Meiya Who are you? I'm back, mom. Mom me me me Xiaoya Xiaoya Xiaoya, I'm sorry. Xiaoya Xiaoya Good good good Mom, I'm sorry. Mom, I'm sorry. Mother Xiaoya is here Xiaoya is in Xiaoya In Xiaoya Xiaoya Are you here, mom? Xiaoya is here Xiaoya Do you have a mother? Those who kidnapped me before Let me call my mom. I grew up with my mother. Her name is Du Xiaoyue Do you have any relatives? My father's name is Lin Zhiguo But he is not my biological father. When I was very young He was adopted from an orphanage. You spent time in an orphanage as a child. elder brother sorry I shouldn't have sneaked out without your knowledge. This is all my fault alright Why are you saying this now? I hope everyone is OK. A silver lining Don't be so willful next time. Li Dong How serious is the injury? O Minor injuries won't kill you For my business I even deliberately let you run over here and get hurt. I'm sorry, brother. Is it necessary to tell me this? I forced you to come here. My Responsibility You can punish me however you want when we get back. as you like How come he is here? Ask him yourself. It's alright Ouyang You can go back to the hotel now. I have to stay Cooperate with the Thai police to handle some matters All right Walk