Samsung is one of the world's largest Samsung's market capitalization, which is an is over $279 billion. This puts them as the companies like Salesforce, Bank of America, ASML, and T-Mobile. Furthermore, to technology itself - just like other Microsoft and Facebook. It is a company that They are known for their quality smartphones and stumbled upon a major challenge recently, and that In the past few years, we have seen a rise AMD, Broadcom, ASML and so on have been staging resulted in billions to hundreds of billions at this chart showing the market cap growth year has been the outlier here rising from a mere in just four years. This was widely attributed we see today. This very industry was fueled Semiconductors have fueled this so-called to power everything from smartphones that make artificial intelligence the AI revolution we're witnessing But it is in this very same industry that that we're talking about is the so-called company like TSMC and Samsung manufactures These companies, also known as &quot;fabless&quot; firms, them at scale. The top fabless firms are the likes companies are TSMC, Samsung, and GlobalFoundries. that Samsung has been lagging behind. It is a trillion dollars - because they capture a Here's a graph of the foundry market Samsung has been lagging behind TSMC. Back of 19.1 percent, whilst TSMC with 48.1 and Samsung as a major firm back then was above capitalization to TSMC from 2016 to 2019 - company overall. To top it off, Samsung Here are the financial statements of and net income were leagues above TSMC. That more money every year compared to TSMC from everything changed. TSMC not only went on to market share in 2024. Samsung is left with a mere massive 61.7 percent, eating more than half of So, does this mean that Samsung is losing on this massive billion dollar potential to Well, let's break this down one by one. The first problem that Samsung stumbled upon is process technology refers to the method with smaller nanometer (nm) measurements Samsung has faced notable delays in developing its company has postponed mass production of 2nm chips to 20% of chips produced meet quality standards. on the other hand, are significantly higher, similar advanced nodes. This discrepancy in as they can produce more functioning chips from and increasing profitability. Higher yield rates making TSMC the preferred choice for tech giants Samsung's low yield rates for 2nm chips with Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) lithography, more complex chips. EUV lithography is essential and TSMC has excelled in integrating this has invested in EUV equipment, industry lacks the maturity and efficiency of TSMC's, its 5nm production. This lag in EUV technology complicating its efforts to compete with Another contributing factor to Samsung's yield transistors down to 2nm. Each reduction in process as smaller transistors increase the risk of through extensive R&amp;D and iterative stable 3nm node and proceed confidently toward stabilizing its 3nm process, let alone Then, there's also project delays. $17 billion semiconductor plant in Taylor, Texas. the project has faced multiple delays. mass production was postponed to 2025 due to A third challenge to Samsung's business Currently, Samsung is a leader in the production of 2024, the company held a 42.2% share the reasons why Samsung fell off against TSMC. which is making them a lot of money. also been fraught with challenges for in developing and mass-producing its HBM3 and opportunities to supply key clients, allowing Just take a look at the recent quarterly results growth in its memory business - over 142 Korean won in the past quarter of 2023 to over of 2024. Unfortunately, the operating profit of over year. Comparatively, SK Hynix has recorded the company saw a loss in operating profit they saw a big profit of over 7 trillion won. profit of Samsung's device solutions which not If we take a look at the market capitalization Samsung is really falling off hard. fallen from more than $400 billion in the mid time of writing. Comparatively, SK Hynix has This again puts another pressure on Samsung So, can Samsung ever close this gap? Well, out. They have announced plans to develop 1.4nm aiming to close the technological gap with plans to invest up to $115 billion to become including building advanced chip-making a grant of up to $6.4 billion from the $40 billion in a new chip production facility these are mere plans. But anyway, do let us