I am no longer in the 5000s, which means I every single race. I have to wait 15. Have fun for me? Because I have to wait 15 seconds, and I the time limit. The important thing is I have to me. And sometimes they disconnect me anyway, This is uh, not really much of a comeback track, then I can do some extending. So Okay, got some coins. Coins are extremely making comebacks or, or just in general. the power of being at 10 coins, but you Oops, I forgot you don't get well I'm playing from the back with no item. I don't know how long I should save this though. amazing and uh, it's at the finish line so oh, Uh, so that's just the backup bullet Okay, uh, these are some terrible items. I was like a shortcut right here, but I am in sixth lap two. See if I can snipe somebody with that. I I thought it was fire for some reason, but no, little bit more safely than otherwise because it with two mushrooms. Ah, it's like undodgeable. You know why? Because I probably would have still Okay, I'm in third place. I'm gonna go First place has a mushroom. Goodbye, goodbye. person. Come on, come on. Ah, what? What? that's how I win the very first race? Shortcat never mind. I tried to get the three coins at the so I guess I'm just playing this with zero coins, I'm gonna have to go out of my way to get some impossible. Like coins do a lot, items also in comparison when you're on the boost panel just gonna use them instead of the boost panels. panels, I will go for it because otherwise like that there's no point in using items. And this is near the end of that glider, you can actually It's not the greatest extension, but it did get go around. I don't know how the golden's gonna Okay, I'm in seventh. Oh, that banana almost hit almost fell off. I'm gonna use this mushroom. Oh, mushroom now and then just boo. I do not want Oh, and I dodged the shock! What? Okay, I, people behind me that dodged the shock as well. you kidding me? Please fail the shortcut, someone. they kind of handed me the win and I Come on, seventh place. I was in--I was in first Sprint, I do really well. I'm not like good on is a long track, so these challenges like give me so it's not like other people don't people like this track. I honestly think this is but I don't practice it because it is a city That was the sketchiest shortcut of all time, everybody. See if we can hit anyone with anybody. All right, mushrooms at this section. Very important for this shortcut to go up with the very easily go somewhere you did not expect. Take shroomless, but it's very hard, and I would not I mean by that is like I kind of have to do a I'm in first? What? When did that happen? Don't hit the wall, don't Oh, no one's even close to I just always win on Sydney Sprint. This We got Big Blue on mirror mode. Let's see but first we need to make sure we're at 10 coins. go for this next coin section right there. You can About to use those mushrooms. Okay, so we have to take all the shortcuts that I showed in I do know how to do them in regular races. I don't can't use a bullet here because I'm gonna do this here. Also can't use the bullet for that. And a cannon, so I'm not gonna use the bullet I messed up. Let's use the bullet. So that's Oh no. Okay, I'll wait for people to get out here. Chain, come on, give me something good. Yeah, at least we have an item coming up here that was really bad. That was the worst shortcut And let's see how many people we can pass here. because I was smarter. You know what? Let's try the faster vehicle. I'll go with the Inkstriker. Sundae just because I'm in the room and they know my Inkstriker is gonna help me out here because this vehicle, not on this entire combo, but the on anti-gravity. I'm at fifth on Sky-High Sundae. make a comeback on this track, usually. You be doing better than everybody. All right, Stay on the track, please. See what I'm talking You know what the problem is? I think this item here. Let's grab one coin right So Mushroom Gorge is nice because you can do the Although I am getting to the level where people so it's not going to be quite as easy, but There we go. Oh, what? Are you kidding do this. This is redemption for missed the trick. Oh, this vehicle's too fast interacting with this track. Oh, I dodged That's, oh, I just messed up. But except one of them didn't take up an Thought that was so sketch again, but Okay, we'll just chain it right here. He's goodbye, goodbye. Oh no, I lost a If nobody gap jumps, I have this in Never mind, I forgot about blue shell. Oh that was an incredible race. I knew I could do it did not want to get because this is an extremely So, ah, these turns. So if I end up in the I'm not amazing at this track. Like, I can totally hard, and I kind of have to play perfect here. here. Okay, I'm happy with this place, given that gonna be a really tough one. There is the double everyone can take it shroomless, and it's hard if I get coins on this track often, it's by use this. I'm not even gonna try and worry about that is such a long time. Like, I just Let's do that. Single mushroom? Uh, this is not here. Oh, I messed that up. All right, we're All right, bullet right here. Again, just hoping for the best. I guess I didn't have right here. What do we got? Single mushroom. and there is a blue shell, so there's still scared the blue shell was gonna hit me, and Four mushrooms, that's pretty good. All right, the right because someone started throwing fire. Save one mushroom. I have a coin in my last I'm saving this mushroom. Spam, spam, spam. Yes, such a horrible race. So even though I'm starting because it means I start with zero coins instead grab those coins at the back to begin with. So no, it's okay. There's an item set coming right up on Mushroom Gorge? There's no point unless you're All right, perfect alignment for the shortcut. I should burn this because there's Oh, nice, nice, nice, nice. And I can finish Can I get mushrooms? Yes, I'm gonna wow, we double dodging this bullet train. Okay, so I use it slightly at the wrong time. Yeah, so first place with the golden mushroom. [laughs] I don't think it extends, but the reason you off right before you can take the gap jump can I get two wins in a row? That would be crazy. nothing anyone can do about my lead. The only with a shortcut. No, I just, I just got a giant Every single thing went my way. This game would Singapore Speedway. [laughs] I don't know if Grab a coin right there. Oh, I've only got of course. Where are you go--There's a soccer field come on, drop me, drop me. That was so dumb. soon as I could, but I don't know, maybe I how often are you gonna get a bullet on the information. Can you even get a bullet that I thought I barely dodged it. Okay, I have to horrible race. I've messed up a few times and with 15 seconds. You do not have any leeway to got the item. Oh, this is pretty good. It's pretty the upper path is faster, but if I have a golden Star, there's some stuff around, so figured Oh, this is really nice, so I can be invincible I almost got backspammed. Third place, ah, I'm made. What can we do on Choco Mountain? There's okay, check this out, check this out, guys. There's just like not much to do on So there's a bullet extension if I use it End. Okay, there we go, there we go. I'm actually the one thing you can do on Choco Mountain. Lap Isn't that crazy? That's absolutely insane. I'm already in sixth place at the beginning of before the next item set, which is really great. slowed down, but it's okay. I'm right Single mushroom, that's not really gonna I can only gain a few positions with that. I'm the piranha plant. I should have activated there's so many coins right here. All right, I'm in the spot. It's gonna be hard for people to watch this. Oh, the Birdo slowed down. Okay, What? What? No, I was having such a good race, that just happened. Okay, the blue shell. Yes, But can I still get second? Get second, yes. Choco people bagging on this track. I'm gonna come back And this is wasting a lot of time. Fifteen, seconds, but it probably won't matter because and we have a double item set coming Oh, shock, that's beautiful. All right, I'm have to use this. I can't be too strategic off something fancy with this, so we're just This is amazing, this is amazing. Do this for better alignment. Get me around here. [laughs] I'm in second hmm, I'll just save this. I'll save it for first place's item, because I'm guaranteed to hit Oh, I couldn't get a double item. I did it's not giving me my item. Okay, at least oh, I didn't get the boost. No, this--I do something crazy. That all too crazy. I made such a big mistake by not getting that everyone here sucks at Rainbow Road because On the bright side, though, there is the cannon this cannon, all right. So there's a few cannons here, you actually get insanely good items. The like how far are you from first place, and that And, the further you are away, the better for quickly, right? So, right at that section, you So often at that section, even if you're only in item just because of the cannon. So, since I'm race, then that gives me really good chances in ninth. You can perhaps get a better than ninth do not expect to get these items in ninth, maybe Ah, just use the bullet. It's a curvy section bullet. All right, that dropped me off real quick. but that was really unfortunate because I'm in a And I'm gonna use that star because someone really defensive in this game. You can't just could just hit you anyway. What? Not much I can Come on, come on, come on, no one hit and maybe even red shell Neo Bowser City doesn't really have shortcuts. I'm gonna focus on coins, and the thing on this you can still make a comeback because I got a golden mushroom. Smart steering, smart to get through the section relatively quickly with final section really well as well. However, we're I just used the golden mushroom during that really long time. Okay, that's nice, that's What do we got? a bullet? Yes, right here. Pass people so it doesn't drop you off too early it will just stop. No! How are you that Mario Kart? But okay, you see what I mean? because it can take a section that's really Okay, so we're really in it. I'm really close to out for defense. Oh no, I cracked on the Tanooki Uh, I'm just gonna use this, have this out really good. I'm not gonna red shell first place Right, this is a good item to have. I'm just gonna you, I got defense. Oh no, I had that. I so had...