The hot August day would cool by the time of Castile would made themselves ready and Their Portuguese enemy had the high ground, the dregs of Lisbon, led by a bastard, hiding They had no armor to speak of; what pieces wore a patchwork of items - one wore a mail cuirass with no mail. The French vanguard were in such numbers and the bastard's army and were now lining up slope was gentler and the defenses weaker, to say in the matter. On the French line, pennants and coats of breeze. Armor shone - visors glistened. Their horses were so well outfitted that they the dusty ground. The Castilians were not in the first battleline. Their King Juan had given leave for the French be theirs. After riding all the way from France where raged, the French were itching to show their the battlefield to their Spanish allies. The Portuguese peasants with their sticks the hooves of the finest heavy cavalry on At last, at about six o'clock, the order The creeks and trees on either side of the to start its advance - like a bowling ball The advance turned into a charge - the cries their novice infantry to hold their positions drumming of the hooves digging divots and an oncoming wave of steel and flesh, the heavy The Iberian peninsula that today consists in the 14th century fragmented into the Kingdoms of Granada, and Portugal. By the middle 1300s, the emirates had been Islamic territory of the once powerful Al-Andulus The Christian kingdoms of Iberia saw frequent often with an eye to co-rule, or establishing The roots of the Battle of Aljubarrota in King Ferdinand I of Portugal, who ruled from throne of Castile along with that of Portugal, lineage, he and the Castilians had arranged Beatrice - would marry King Juan I of Castile. Should the marriage result in a male child, and Castile. The marriage was unpopular in Portugal, particularly class of Lisbon, which had been excluded from Wars between Portugal and Castile had been and Portuguese hostility to the new regime I in 1383, the regent put in charge of the Beatrice was her mother, Leonor Teles, a deeply by the populace, and suspected of poisoning The political situation in Portugal itself arrangement arose in the form of Joao of Aviz, Joao was young - 26 years old - handsome, He was also Grand Master of the Military Order founded to emulate the ethos of the Knights In October 1383, the Portuguese throne nominally her mother and regent Leonor Teles who pulled Worryingly, Leonor's lover, Joao Fernandes a substantial influence in Beatrice's court. But Joao of Aviz made his intentions clear Anti-Castilian elements rallied around him, Seeing his wife's inheritance threatened, secure what had been promised to him by Ferdinand In March 1384, he dispatched Pedro Alvarez Crossing into the region of Atoleiros, he The campaign, however, was met by the young Marching from Lisbon with 1,000 men, he collected By April he reached the besieged city. Despite being outnumbered three to one, Nuno to ward off and exhaust the Castilian cavalry A prolonged fight ensued, but the Castilians Suffering heavy casualties in futile attacks Pedro Alvarez was forced to withdraw and abandon The stunning victory of Nuno Alvares' hadn't For his heroism and leadership, Joao awarded making him his second in command. The victory at Fronteira invigorated the fighting wind in the sails of Joao's attempt on the His prestige hurt, Juan reacted swiftly. Mobilizing a much larger force of over 20,000, advancing on Lisbon, which was not only the the symbolic seat of Portuguese royalty. Juan's goal was nothing less than a coronation and sovereignty over Portugal. By the 29th of May 1384, Juan's army encircled navy blockaded the port. Lisbon was cut off. The siege dragged on for two months, but the did not waver, despite widespread famine within By July, calls for help were answered when of breaking through the blockade and resupplying They engaged the larger Castilian fleet at The Portuguese lost three ships and their Lisbon were resupplied. The valiant act of sacrifice by the Portuguese Meanwhile, Nuno Alvares Pereira was tasked But being so vastly outnumbered, all he could supply lines. Juan was forced to introduce rations for the But the siege lines held. It seemed only a matter of time before Lisbon However, by late July the bubonic plague had Castilian siege lines. Throughout August, the ravaging pestilence the besiegers. Finally, Juan abandoned the siege in early and the terrible toll the plague was taking While the invaders limped back to Castile a diplomatic offensive to try and win support larger neighbor. He attempted to gain the recognition from But, more importantly, Joao's embassy to was met with much enthusiasm. Only a minor at the time, the real power lay Lancaster and regent of England, himself a wife. At first reluctant, the duke was eventually Portuguese army. The English provided a small but effective joined from the English-ruled Duchy of Gascony. In total, the English contingent numbered With his reputation bolstered by the successful of the Kingdom in Coimbra in April 1385. Attended by representatives of the nobility, declared him King Joao I of Portugal, thereby I. After acceding to the throne, Joao proceeded Beatrice's and her husband's claims. This enraged Juan! After regrouping during the winter and spring border in July 1385. This time, he would finish the job! As it was the year before, the Castilian objective thus gain control of the cultural and economic There is no reason to believe that Juan was succeed in this objective. His previous siege of Lisbon would have been plague in his army, and he was returning in Contemporary accounts place the size of his some 6,600 men. Among the Castilian host was a force of no These heavily armored cavalrymen were always and keen to show their elan and chivalric Their leaders had a place among Juan's inner lords. In addition to the French knights, Juan had and 15,000 infantry, as well as 15 primitive Aware of the vast strength of the enemy, Joao would confront and halt Juan's advance before Lisbon and use the Castilian navy to blockade Along the 700 English troops, Joao had at lances, and 4,000 infantry. Despite being vastly outnumbered, the Portuguese one year earlier and were willing to fight of the Portuguese throne. Understanding that Juan needed to uphold his smaller opponent, Joao hoped to lure him into To achieve this, he counted on the suggestions Nuno Alvares to find a strong defensible position. Interestingly, in a mark of the divided support own brother Pedro was serving as commander Moving to block the invaders coming from the on a hill outside Aljubarrota. Having marched tens of kilometers the previous battle site until noon of the 14th of August. After hearing reports of Joao's position, At the meeting, the French counseled an immediate catch them in the open when they withdraw The Spanish nobles, on the other hand, advised their rushed march, which would give them gain additional intelligence on Joao's position But the discussion quickly devolved into a Sir Arnauld Limousin, whom King Juan chose first for presuming to know better than the warfare, and second for their timidity in The French hawks made an impression on King Stirred by their tenacity, he gave orders While they could not yet determine the size were dug in atop a flat hill, with an array stakes prepared on the steep northern slope. Thus, instead of charging against such a well-prepared and find a different approach. While this was a prudent decision, two fast western sides of the hill, which would make Portuguese additionally chopped down trees Attacking through the narrow center along Joao and Nuno had their cavalry dismount and infantry, while the archers and crossbowmen Nuno took command in the center, while Joao force and the supply train. BUT, having expected to receive the attack the Portuguese commanders realized that the positions, their hearts sank. They ordered the men to rush to the southern Worryingly, the southern slope was not as However, King Juan's army was badly divided. Still angered by the discord during the war that, given the French were SO KEEEEN to win they would LLLET THEM take the first wave At some point in the afternoon, Juan's force the road and moved around to its gentler southern At first glance, the defenses of the southern There, Juan's army deployed for the attack, vanguard, led by Sir Arnauld Limousin, while to remain with them in the rear, leading the The remainder of the Castilian host was kept Joao's army had by now also reversed itself, and the infantry forming in the center behind THEN! Down the hill, the French rode into view and the Portuguese line. Joao's English archers and crossbowmen would markers which would tell them when the enemy Once the closely packed French had passed them. A skilled English longbowman could fire at estimates give a number as high as 15 - and crossbowmen would have had a slower rate of they fired an arrow for every French knight Despite the arrow volleys, the French continued they were met with both sling missiles from set up by the defenders. The carpet of caltrops pierced the hooves up and throw their riders, slowing down those English archers and Portuguese crossbows fired targets. Other unfortunate animals would have fallen and excitement of battle, and all the while, and controlled by the narrow hill between the day and morning before, running at the sharp lances to drive into armor and mail. On horseback, Joao urged on his loyal men the Castilian line, Juan's attempts to order French was met with a staunch refusal. To the king's consternation, his army refused alone. Remarkably, the French knights reached the received. A vicious hand to hand melee with lances and outmatched the Portuguese infantry. They pushed back the lighter armored defenders. But by now, less than a thousand French remained. As the day waned and fatigue kicked in, the prisoner. The Portuguese believed the fighting for the after disarming them, promising hospitality Some of the wealthy French knights even ransomed In successfully stopping the charged of the line were high. Not taking anything for granted, however, of Juan and his still enormous Castilian army. By now, word reached the King of Castile that storming of the hill and that many of them Highly emotional given the rigors of the forced of his commanders in not following his directions, Juan decided immediately to launch a second his cherished allies. Impressed by their king's resolve, the Castilian Moreover, they saw this as an opportunity of the French. But they refused Juan's order to dismount Instead, the main body of the army, 10 times narrow slope. Seeing the MASSIVE Castilian charge caused - not a panic. Joao quickly realized that having so great force constituted an unacceptable risk. And, he ordered his men, on the pain of death, in the first assault. This was done with some regret and the Portuguese mass. With the sun setting, some of Juan's advisors the battle until the next day, but the king that they had already been put to death. The Castilian charge followed the same route order and having to follow the line laid out Their way was likely hampered even further Like the French, they nevertheless managed and missiles in enough numbers to engage the to hand fight. While Juan was still on the low ground to his men, Joao, seeing that the Castilians front line, dismounted and walked to the front he personally engaged the Spanish with a poleaxe. In addition, the Castilians attempted to flank to the support of the missile troops on the The Castilian force was now trapped amongst hemming them in one either side. At the same time, thousands of their own men rear and allowed no movement backward to gain Juan's position downhill also made any kind Many Castilian troops could not reach the the top were stuck. At dusk, panic overcame the Castilians when The fight soon became a rout. A full scale massacre began when the Castilian Many thousands of troops, alongside the senior Miraculously, a few hundred Castilians did of meters of distance, and a THIRD assault But having been successful twice against fresher held their ground. Their king Joao still wielding his axe, launched after the now fleeing Castilians and cutting As night fell, King Juan took a fresh horse the full extent of his losses became clear He made his way for Castile shortly thereafter. With command of the army broken down, the Castilian army stumbled towards the border, Joao prudently halted his army from pursuing He maintained his fortified position at Aljubarotta, countryside. The Portuguese populace turned on the now many more while they attempted to reach safety. Joao returned to Lisbon in triumph. He and his army were acclaimed, and he began Portugal. His general Nuno Alvares Pereira meanwhile even led an invasion there in the autumn of once more being outnumbered 6 to 1. Joao's victory and reign had a lasting effect The next year, his alliance with England was in effect to this day, and now the longest Secondly, and even more significantly for Peter, and Henry "the Navigator," inherited and culture and initiated the policies that on earth in the coming centuries.