- Hi, it's me Tim Dodd, Blue Origin, perhaps the sleeping giant of the aerospace industry will be going from a tiny to one of the biggest rockets ever made. Now you guys have been to do a video all about Blue Origin and their massively But I've withheld, why? Well, to date we really didn't just some pretty animations, a few videos of them and a few basic specs of the vehicle. Blue Origin has been awfully quiet about this monster rocket, until now. Finally, Blue Origin blessed us or really their future customers with a Payload User's Guide. Ah, that sounds like the But in all reality it's as we finally get those that I been waitin' for. So today we actually get to do a quick rundown on Blue Origin. We're gonna talk about their and then we're gonna compare it to some other heavy-lift launchers that it's going to be competing against. Finally, I've been waiting Let's get started. - Three, two, (rocket roaring) All engines running. Lift off, we have a lift off. - Okay since I haven't really done any videos on Blue Origin yet, let's do a super quick Blue Origin was founded in the year 2000 by the richest human alive, That's right. They were actually founded So wait, they've been around and have no shortage of money. What the heck have they been up to? That's actually a fair question. Blue Origin is extremely tight-lipped and we often don't hear until one day they're like, &quot;Oh, hey! &quot;We did this.&quot; and with their company motto Latin for step by step ferociously, they're conservative on their time lines, slow to show off their details but just as ambitious as the rest of them. So with that in mind, Blue Origin started chasing the suborbital tourism game first. And they still are to this day. In 2005 Jeff Bezos discussed plans for a vertical takeoff and landing suborbital spaceship called New Shepard. Their first tests begin with the launch of their called Goddard, named after the pioneer of the liquid-fueled rocket This little guy was the company's test bed to learn how to propulsively land, a key technology they'd be utilizing in their upcoming New Shepard program. Think of this like SpaceX's which served a similar purpose for SpaceX. The only publicly released and lasted 25 seconds. The vehicle flew at least with the last known flight in 2007. In 2011 Blue Origin of their booster for the New Shepard, climbing to over 13 kilometers in altitude and reaching Mach 1.2 in the process. In 2012 the company did a pad abort test of their crew capsule. By 2015 they began testing their first full New Shepard system which is an 18 meter designed to kiss the edge of space with up to six passengers on board for a 20 minute flight. It's a single stage liquid-fueled booster powered by their BE-3 engine running on liquid hydrogen Their plan was to separate the booster and the passenger capsule and have the capsule nice, simple and proven, while the booster was going land propulsively after Their first flight on April with the capsule and booster just about kissing the Karman line or the boundary of space, Now the important thing is the capsule was safely recovered via parachutes however, their first was not successful, citing a in the control system, leading to a complete loss to the vehicle. It only took seven months to their Texas launch site ready to continue testing Their launch on November 23rd, After successfully reaching the booster and capsule came The capsule popped it's parachutes and was recovered exactly as planned, however, the booster continued just falling and falling and falling, gaining velocity with each passing moment, the ground coming closer 'til suddenly, it's engine and it performed the world's after reaching the edge of space. Sorry for the drama, I just wanted to spice it up a little bit. So, yeah, they absolutely And not only that, they actually reused that exact same booster again, taking it up to space And then they did that same thing again three more times for a total of five times with the last flight even doing something even more impressive. It performed an inflight launch abort, which is where they literally on top of the main booster and it still survived. Now, that is absolutely mind blowing. They've since retired that second booster which is now sitting at their factory and they're now on to It's flown three times to date with the last one also being an abort test but at apogee. This validated their abort system throughout every portion of flight, providing extras confidence that their passengers are safe no matter the circumstances. So the New Shepard is setting many space flight firsts and getting really close and I know it's just a suborbital rocket and although the total energy in these little hops is nothing it's still an absolutely Okay, so now I hear ya. You're sitting there going, wait, I thought the video title was, Will Blue Origin Be the How is this anywhere Well, seeing as New Shepard than one of Falcon Heavy's landing legs, yeah, you're right. But now, let's check out Whoa, wait, wait, wait, they're From a Cessna to a 747? From a canoe to a cruise ship? From an ant to an elephant? This can't be right, can it? Well it is and it's called New Glenn. Are you seeing a pattern yet? From Goddard, a guy who tested rockets to New Shepard, as in Alan Shepard, the first American to fly in and now, New Glenn, as in John Glenn, the first American to orbit the earth. But come on, anyone can draw and say it's going to be super, super big and have really powerful lasers and stuff. So, how seriously can Ahh, does this answer your question? (roaring engines) Whoa, design work began in 2012 to develop a partially and in 2015 Blue Origin But they dropped another fun hint claiming this rocket of their orbital rockets. Not only that, it's maiden and Blue Origin is with their dates so this New Glenn will initially launch from LC-36 at Cape Canaveral Air This pad has hosted over 140 launches, formerly launching the Their factory at Kennedy Space is located in very only about 15 kilometers away. Blue Origin is also working Vandenberg Air Force Base in California. I'll be curious if they'll Kinda doubt it. Or if they're going to ship like many other rockets. New Glenn is gonna be powered by seven of the companies BE-4 engines. The BE-4 is racing to become the first operational to run on methane. The other is SpaceX's Raptor engine. They're both crazy impressive engines, but they take on the task The Raptor engine is a full-flow that's approximately the same size as SpaceX's Merlin engines. While the BE-4 is a closed cycle engine that's closer in size to the RS-25 Space Shuttle main engine, which means it's very, very big. The BE-4 is very far They've successfully of the engine many, many times, including some tests The performance of the engine it was chosen by ULA to on their upcoming Vulcan rocket. The upper stage of the two vacuum optimized versions that same engine that powers only these will be called the BE-3Us. Combined they produce just We can kinda speculate similar efficiency to the RL10 vacuum engine. Perhaps the United States' most Like the RL10 the BE-3U will but interestingly it will be and not a closed cycle expander. The only other currently operating open bleed expander cycle, is being used by Japan on Blue Origin is also planning on using autogenous pressurization on both stages. This means they won't use an inert gas like helium or nitrogen to maintain pressure in the which can be cool because SpaceX is also planning on their upcoming previously known as BFR. The rocket's fuselage like most other rockets. There were rumors of Blue Origin making a carbon composite upper stage. But, at least for the initial version, it's going to be aluminum. There will be a common a technique first seen on the Saturn V. Okay, all this is pretty impressive but we haven't got to the Blue Origin will be recovering Blue Origin is actually out of these massive boosters and seeing how well they've I really hope that's That's super impressive and will certainly help They'll be doing a similar technique to what SpaceX's Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavys do most of the time by propulsively landing downrange on a large ship in the ocean. Now before you accuse them two notes, first off, if Why wouldn't you replicate that works so well? But, second off, just to throw Blue Origin actually filed a patent for reusable rocket booster landing on a seagoing platform in 2010. Crazy. After a bit of a dispute the U.S. Patent Trial and Appeal Board canceled Blue Origin's patent claim, meaning the case was lost and SpaceX was given the go-ahead to continue pursuing landing on a ship. But like I said, I don't or whose idea it was first, it's clearly a great idea and it's what helps allow to be lofted into orbit while having enough propellant Unlike SpaceX's Autonomous Blue Origin's ship is Stena Freighter container ship called the LPV or Another notable difference is the LPV will actually be moving This helps keep the allowing recovery during rough seas. And I know, you're probably that sounds impossible, how could they land on a moving ship, isn't that super, super hard? Well, I actually don't think it's gonna be that much different. The rocket can kind of know the trajectory and I'm assuming they've and they know how to work it but I'm excited to see them do it. The actual physical landing area is almost the same size as SpaceX's, at around 4500 square meters, although theirs is a and SpaceX's is closer to a square. And although the propulsive landing might actually look the hardware Blue Origin uses before that couldn't be more different. Instead of grid fins at the New Glenn will use some small fins similar to the New Shepard. And although I don't think these fins are going to retract into the booster, they are used for the same purpose which is to steer through the atmosphere. The New Glenn also has some small wings or strakes on the lower portion of the booster. These increase the surface area, helping allow the fuselage which can give the booster a little more cross-range capability and also gives the atmosphere more time to bleed off more energy. Just like if you were sky-diving, your terminal velocity if you were belly first We can also see SpaceX with their Falcon 9s, but with some additional surface area, New Glenn might almost be able to fly and slow down a substantial amount. Another fun thing to note is how far downrange these One of the fun little details to come of this New Glenn is how long the first stage The first stage will burn or three minutes and 19 seconds. Compare that to SpaceX, whose longest burn times are often not much over two minutes and 40 seconds. An additional 30 seconds or at well over 2000 meters per second, yeah, that's gonna put the recoveries pretty far downrange. Now again, we don't know or MECO velocity, but judging by the fact that SpaceX's furthest around 680 kilometers downrange, New Glenn will probably Blue Origin's website does state that New Glenn will land nearly a thousand kilometers downrange but I might venture to guess What do you think? Place your bets now by voting here! (lively contest music) Okay, so now that we're finally and we're getting pretty heavily it's time we actually stack up how the New Glenn will perform against the other launchers in this class that are going to be flying Some notes here before we get started. If we include all the heavy-lift launchers from around the world, our chart and our screen is So we're just gonna compare the five United States that will hopefully be near operating when New Glenn goes online. All five of these rockets either are already flying or they've won contracts by the Air Force. That's another reason We're also gonna be leaving out any super heavy-lift launchers previously know as BFR and the SLS, since those rockets are in a completely different class on their own. Ooh, I love doing these. And this one is very interesting. So first up is SpaceX's Falcon Heavy, the only other reusable Now, next up is another ULA's mighty Delta IV Heavy. Then we have ULA's other Now do note, this is not the Vulcan Heavy which won't be online for awhile longer, but even with just the standard it's right within the same specs Then we have Northrup upcoming Omega rocket, but a quick note, they too will probably be making a heavy version of the Omega. But, who knows when that will come out and there's really not about this rocket so I had to but I think they're pretty close but take them all with And of course we have which if you need a recap on this rocket, just rewind five minutes. So let's start with the most That New Glenn is massive, it's much taller than Falcon Vulcan at 66 and the New Glenn is also the widest by quite a large amount too, Now compare that to 3.6 meters, well, times three in the Falcon Heavy, five meters, again times 5.4 meters of the Vulcan Next we need to check Now here's where New Glenn It's internal volume is massive, a whopping 458 cubic meters compared to the Falcon Heavy which shares the same as the Falcon 9 at 145 cubic meters. Then there's the Delta IV which can have up to 233 cubic meters. Now I can't find the exact but I believe they're that same 230 cubic meter-ish region. This massive fairing allows the New Glenn to do dual payloads with up to 10,000 kilograms in either the upper or This is something that ECA's Ariane 5 has done very well with and now it looks like from it's playbook. Now let's talk engines. There couldn't be a wider variety of engines on these rockets. The New Glenn, of course, has those seven BE-4 on the first stage and two BE-3Us on the upper The Falcon Heavy has 27 Merlin 1Ds running keralox on the first stage and a single vacuum optimized Merlin 1D on the upper stage running keralox also. The Delta IV Heavy has three RS-68As running hydrolox in an upper stage with an RL-10B also running hydrolox. Then we have the Vulcan which actually has the same the BE-4, but again it only has two. However, you can have up to six powerful strap-on solid rocket boosters. It's upper stage has two Then there's the Omega rocket which is just solids on solids and a dash of hydrolox on top. It's a three-stage rocket which is similar to the Space Shuttle's solid rocket boosters instead of four. Then it has a Castor 300 solid stage and then it's upper stage as it too is RL-10C powered but down to just one, And it can have up to six GEM 63XL strap-on solid Okay, now let's get on to the fun stuff. Thrust. The New Glenn delivers a 16,800 kilonewtons of thrust, much, much less than the Falcon Heavy which has 22,815 kilonewtons but that's much more at 9,420 kilonewtons. The Vulcan almost ironically comes in at virtually the exact same despite having literally well but, two instead of seven. But what it lacks in BE-4s winding up with almost the exact same total thrust at 16,812. The Omega rocket has a combined 21,798 kilonewtons of thrust That sounds crazy. I can't wait to hear one of those fly. Okay, so thrust is great and all, but what can these things Now before we get too far into this, I do want to point out, I'm going to be quoting for Falcon Heavy, one at sea, two at land, as I think that's how most of the time. And we're also going to be of New Glenn, as I don't to expend one. So keep that in mind when So first, how much can these New Glenn can launch a Falcon Heavy 30, the Delta the Vulcan 27.5 tonnes, and the Omega, I can't find an exact number on but it's probably around 30 tonnes. And lastly, let's compare to a geostationary transfer orbit. New Glenn can loft 13.6 tonnes, Delta IV Heavy 14 and Omega 10.1 tonnes. A few reasons we see in capabilities between these vehicles again is due to their recoverability, the efficiency of their engines and in some cases their physical size. And of course, the other And at this point we just don't on all these launchers or at least not accurate enough to wisely factor them in here. So that being said, I do think Falcon Heavy at least as far as price goes. I'll be very curious if New Glenn or any of the others So, all in all, New Glenn is shaping up to be a super impressive rocket. By the numbers, it will be the largest and most capable rocket Well that is of course which I highly doubt it will do by 2021 or if SpaceX's Super Heavy which we'll see, but the race is on. I have a feeling the impressively cost competitive as well, seeing how they're planning how they can do massive dual payloads and with streamlined operations, like having their factory this might shake up the industry. I for one am extremely And as you may or may not know by now, I'm not really a big fan of tribalism or just picking a favorite so of course, I'm going to and their New Glenn rocket 2021 can't come soon enough. So I'm sure the comment and other whatevers about I don't really care what you guys think. I'm super, super excited for this and I'm just a big fan of being positive and cheering on everyone So I encourage our community So while you're down there let me know if you have about Blue Origin, about or even just give me feedback on if you think these videos or what things you think I'm As always, I owe a super huge thank you to my Patreon supporters for helping me do all of this stuff. There's a lot of work and research, shooting and editing and I couldn't do it without you guys. There's even Patreons that are sitting in my exclusive Discord Channel or sitting in our exclusive Subreddit that help me script and research. If you want to help contribute or even get access to please visit Thank you. And while you're online, be sure and check out my brand new web store for things like these. Grid Fin Not-A-Coasters. Now notice these are not coasters because they have holes in 'em and that means the liquid can But I do promise they're exactly this high off of making them Grid Fin And there's also lots of hats, mugs, prints of rocket launches and other original photographs, as well as stickers and patches. There's tons of new stuff You need to check it out. Everydayastronaut.com/shop. And finally I did it. I got my music on line for you guys. You've been asking forever to get it up on iTunes and I finally have Maximum my first seven song EP, available, hopefully So search for it, listen to it while you're doing some science, maybe you're studying, maybe you're building a rocket, maybe you're floating in space, maybe you're on a road trip, whatever it might be, check it out. Let me know what you think and thank you so much for listening. That's everydayastronaut.com/music or wherever you listen to music Thanks everybody. That does it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut, bringing space down to (new age electronic music)