Chord Melody is one of the most fun things to play, and it's pretty mind-blowing that you can take a song and play it on guitar as if you are an entire orchestra. And that doesn't have to be as difficult as it sounds. I'm going to show you in this video. I'm sure you've listened to the masters of this style, like Joe Paz or Ted Green, who seem to do impossible things as solo performers. But Chord Melody does not have to be complicated at all, and you can start with a song that you anyway want to learn. Autumn Leaves. This first version is pretty simple, but it's going to cover some important things that you want to get right from the beginning, because then it becomes a great foundation to build on. In the beginning, you want to have the harmony clear by playing the melody and putting a chord on beat 1 of each bar. It's pretty easy to play, and then we can level up the rhythm next. I have a version of the song with a complete chorus of the entire melody later in the video. As you can tell, it makes it a lot easier that the melody is the same motif moving down the neck. And in general, even though it's called Chord Melody, then the melody is actually more important than the chords. So make sure that you know the melody really well, and that it doesn't disappear when you're playing, because you're too busy thinking about the chords. Now that's a very common beginner problem. When it comes to chords, I think the best place to start for Chord Melody, and maybe for jazz in general, is shell voicings. Autumn Leaves is in G minor, and the chords that you want to be able to play are the shell voicings in G minor. There are two sets, one with the root on the 5th string. And the other with the root on the 6th string. Almost all the chords that you will see in this video are derived from these shell voicings by either adding notes, or sometimes leaving out the root. Let's level up the arrangement a bit by adding some rhythm and get it to sound a bit more like jazz. It's a bit boring to always have the chords on the beat, and the melody of Autumn Leaves has a motific structure that makes it very easy to add a bit of rhythm and use chord response to make it sound a bit more like jazz. Now I'm using the same chords as I was in the first version. The only difference is that I'm adding rhythm to the chords, and then playing them between the phrases of the melody. I'm sure you can hear the difference. This already works, and you could play the entire song like this, but let's first add a few nice chromatic things to the chords, because like this, that's actually also easier than you might think. And after that, I'm gonna play a version that has the entire melody. Even with these three-note chords, you can actually add some flow and chromatic color to the arrangement, mostly just by taking a fret next to where you want to go with unnoting the chord. In that respect, passing chords are often overcomplicated with theory, and these are just about moving notes up or down a fret. For the first bars of the song, let's add a passing note for the F7. You can also add a passing chord to the Ebmaj7, and this turns out to be an E7, which is of course a tritone substitute, but notice that it's really just two notes that move down a fret when you go to the Ebmaj7. And the same trick, but then moving up a fret instead gives you this passing chord to the D7, and that would actually be kind of complicated to analyze, but you don't really need to. Just listen to it. And finally, on the Gm6, then there's no other chord that it's moving to, but you can create movement by just going from the 5th, so this note, up to the 6th, and in that way get something like this. So there are a lot of options here, and it's just about experimenting and picking what you like. Before I get into some of the more advanced things, let's check out how the whole song could sound. I'm using some of these things, but mostly just keeping it really simple. There are a few places where I adjust where I'm playing the chords, because that works better with the melody, and as I already mentioned, the melody is the most important. One example is the beginning of the B part, where I leave out the A half-diminished chord for most of the bar. Just play the melody and then insert it before the change to D7. Another place that's adjusted You could play it with cello voicings, but I chose to use a drop 3 Gm7 instead just to have the melody as the top note over the Gm7 chord And then the entire melody sounds like this If you want to practice and play this, you can of course download the PDF for it on my website. There's a link in the video description. But let me show you how to level up what you can do with the chords. And ironically, you do this by going back to the basic first version that I showed you. The advantage of shell voicings is that they are easy to play 3 note chords and are very clear voicings that include the bass note. But you can also combine them with rootless voicings to get more flexibility with what you can do in terms of color and melody. For the first bars, if you play the basic shell voicing under the melody on the Cm7, then you have the whole bar to add more interesting fills. And this gives you a lot more options that are really fun to explore because you can start to use bigger chords combining the shell voicings with drop 3 or even drop 2 voicings as well. And this also gives you another way to add tritone substitutions as passing chords. This time on the minor 2-5, so you have something to go from A half diminished to D7. And this is of course just an Eb7 and you want to think about it as just being a chord that moves down to D7. But it's still adding some extra color. And inserting this into the song, you get something like this. But you also have the option to work with reharmonization, so changing the chords of the song, which is incredibly powerful for chord melody and kind of solves a problem that we often run into. When you play an instrumental version of a song that actually has lyrics, then you run into a problem very often. Because a melody will often have repeats and the only new thing for the listener that keeps it interesting is the new lyrics. In Autumn Leaves, you actually have this in the first 8 bars that are pretty much identical to the second 8 bars. There are of course several ways that you can work around this. A great one that works really well for Autumn Leaves, this example, is to move the melody up an octave. The way I do that here, I'm just reusing some of the simpler chord concepts that I already showed you. But you can also explore reharmonization, so changing the chords to make the repeated part sound different and more surprising. Which works really well, since the listener already expects it to sound in a certain way from hearing it the first time. The topic of reharmonization is of course gigantic, but you can do a lot with a few tritone substitutions when it comes to Autumn Leaves. Here I'm using tritone substitution on Cm7, Bbmaj7 and then the most distinct one, which I also think really sounds great, is Db713 for the Gm6. Which also works really great for a transition back to the Cm7. I'm sure you can hear how those tritone substitutions really add a lot of energy and really move the whole thing forward. Once you start exploring reharmonization you can find a lot of beautiful sounds that you can use in different songs, but you also need a more general way to create chord melody arrangements from standards. And that's what I discuss in this video, together with the story of the first song that I ever played as a chord melody arrangement, a song that I actually don't like that much. Check it out. Learn jazz. Make music.