Today we're going to read a news article together grammar and even pronunciation naturally by in the very popular online magazine Time Out the most iconic buildings in New York and back to JForrest English training, of course a fluent confident English speaker. Let's to go onto my computer. So let's go on to to my computer. As you can see our famous begin our article. The title is &quot;You can finally Liberty again&quot;. Now just in case you don't of Liberty. So the crown is this top part a king, queen, any royalty, what they wear could climb, climb up to the crown. That would of Liberty crown closed until now? Let's find caused by the COVID 19 pandemic, the Crown reopened to the public this week. So let's two and a half, a half is of course point But why does it say year? And why doesn't and a half, this is an adjective two and a what type of closure it was, okay? And that's don't have singular and plurals. This will took a 30 day vacation. Okay, so notice here, What type of vacation, a short vacation a those are adjectives but I can also use a vacation a 30 month vacation a 30 minute vacation Now here is our noun 30 days, which means obviously singular. 30 more than one so days. this mistake a lot from students. What else? add re in front of a verb it means to do it movie. I can't think of a movie name. I really the movie again. I watched the movie again. simple and I'm adding rate. You can add a In terms of spelling. I see it more commonly the article, they do have a dash, but your report? Can you redo the report? He's asking So that's a very useful word to put in front rewatch reopen, remake. If you've been trying though, you might have to wait a tad bit longer. sold out through October. Make sure to reserve you can reserve your past if you'd like. Okay, perfect continuous have or has depending on B E. So this is you have you have equals you we have our verb in ING so that's the present action that started in the past, but continues of the action. That's the i n g. I've been 2020 cents this morning. Now you could also So when we have a period of time we use for I like this one a tad bit a tad bit. This means a little bit a little bit a tad. So here. I was late today. How late were you? a little that's very common. You probably that's very common. I was a tad late today. a tad tired today. So this is saying I'm a now. Right now she's a tad a little tad. Tad According to CNN, the National Park Service, to hold a soft reopening without too much the 136th anniversary of the statues dedication here we had re open. Now we're having re opening. Re opening I don't think there's anything comments about any of this just put your comments or record a future video. This is a good one. But according to someone or something. This The CNN is a newspaper Media Group, so that a someone according to Brad, Brad, the reporter my mom agreeing to my boss according to the Don't forget this too. And don't forget it's excited about the announcement that those fledged opening this month. You're probably adverb. It's a little bit outdated. To be often. But it is interesting. You might hear disappoint disappointment, basically disappointment. But alas, I had to work. So here is the sentence I had to work. I wanted to go to the party tone is. And am I upset that I missed the If I add a last? You know, I'm upset because it to go to the party. But alas, I had to We had to hire people to get them up to speed Willis, a spokesperson for Statue of Liberty CNN, okay, we had to hire people when you your company as an employee, as a worker, useful verb. This is a verb to give someone up to speed to get someone up to speed. This up to speed okay? This means to give someone or do the task. So if you were just hired in progress, you need to know a lot of different What's the budget who's doing what who is So if I share all that information with you, to speed. So this is the information you need So I want you to I want to bring you up to is where it needs to be. Now, this is very up to speed or to bring someone up to speed and some of my examples because that's the get someone up to speed. Both of these verbs meaning. So this is an excellent expression. to give someone the information they need a job. It could be something more casual as close? Great question. On March 16 2020, the at the Statue of Liberty in reaction to the the verb is to shutter and this means to permanently or a business permanently closes, you can board closed the company. The government shuttered passive. The company was shuttered. But again, You won't use it outside of this context. welcoming visitors once more. The pedestal July of 2021. The crown itself remained closed. to teach you. Willis told CNN that a variety including state and federal pandemic restrictions This is a useful expression. Low, record low. So let's say the average low is about here. in your city, the temperature is 10 degrees but then one year your city had a record low three degrees Celsius. So that means it was worthy of that. So a record low means lower hiring pool. A hiring pool describes the amount we already learned what that meant up here. So if I want to be hired, it means I want when you receive a job, to be higher to receive job. These are two must know verbs and make say, I was hired by the company. The company Active the company is giving the job. And of people able to be hired. So maybe there But it could also be a million people. It any number at all. So we'll just say 500 people. Great question. Would be visitors need to trip ferry ride to Liberty Island and usually of Immigration as well. Certainly a must see vocabulary here for travel vocabulary, round go and you return a one way trip is you go because you need to come back. It's an island. it makes sense that it's a round trip, but to Spain, because you want to stay in Spain you might go to another country, but you don't if you do then that's our round trip. Ticket from destination A to B but you need to do from my house to my office. But I need to money or deposit some money or I need to make milk or I need to make a pit stop at the mall from A to B but then you stopped somewhere is just describing what type of stop a pit A to B and is a temporary stop for a specific something else or to drop something off the Liberty National Monument, the pedestal of Liberty museum with its three interactive and Ellis Island. Once on premise, you will to be precise, to reach the statues pedestal to the crown. In case you were wondering, pedestal portion of the monument. Needless way to the top is absolutely worth it. All to be worth it. Do you see the verb to be? say climbing to the top is worth it. So this a gerund expression. Notice here climbing that would be a good gerund verb visiting I don't know where the rest of the text went. it. Seeing the top climbing to the top. So at the top is worth it. Now you could also top. So you can absolutely see this and it's our subject are ever worth it. And then to This I would say is more common. So the exact worth it. And this gives you the chance to verb and let's look at right here as well. expression it will help you sound professional. means information isn't surprising. So it's to climb all the way to the top is absolutely to the top is worth it. But that's not surprising, came all the way to New York, and you visited down here at the bottom, when you can go to the top? Of course it would. Needless to say would say it's worth it. And of course you to go to the top. In fact, I've been to New Liberty and I'm embarrassed to say I didn't a little bit embarrassed about that. And now you seen the Statue of Liberty in person? needless to say, I might say let's say it's busy. Our record breaking busy week. Now I to say, we all need a break. So it's Friday, you to relax and recover from the busy, busy a break but that's expected it's obvious we week. Needless to say. Needless to say, I say as a language learner, it's important as a language learner, it's important to expand to let you know well this isn't very surprising to say an excellent expression to add to your Amazing job today. Think of all the natural that you learned in this very interactive this video helpful, please hit the like button, And this is the first video I've created in feedback. Did you like this style of lesson I can do to improve this style of lesson would the future? Share your feedback any feedback so I can keep making the best content possible head on over to my website JForrestEnglish.com this guide I shared six tips on how to speak next time to be studying up