We are in Switzerland We have some days There was one crag and I've always wanted Katie Choong is a Mammut athlete The crag is called Soyhieres. We are in Soyhieres There are a lot of hard routes here It's a special crag because which is unique for this area. It's next to my house. I've been going here since I was little For me, especially Adam, comes here to see the routes, As we only have one day, some of the as I always do There was quite a lot A few 8c's, one 8c+, one 9a, I started with an 8b+ called Deja, 25 meters From the ground to the top, There are some tricky cruxes but I think the hardest moves This one is probably I decided to campus it, Higher up it's less steep. I'm not sure if it was the sun but those when it was really hard I was climbing like, &quot;Where's That made it pretty pumpy. While I was climbing that this route was maybe because I definitely Some people prefer getting I'm the opposite. I definitely need but if I get too much pump then I feel my max power The main goal of the day Obviously, I wanted Le temps difficile opened by Philippe Steulet It has a hard boulder It's actually It has Someone filled after Philippe Steulet He was but he was unable Fortunately, the holds are clean now It looked like there will be a hard crux The lower part As I started climbing, it was I think my climbing flow here I didn't have I thought this kneebar but up to here, so I was pretty fresh Funnily enough, because I only saw But here and I realized it would be nice to have It was obvious that this kneebar So I decided to keep going. I tried quite hard I wasn't that far off I think it's a really The crux is basically two moves and a really slopey and do a big move On my onsight try, I didn't so I tried to go and I just didn't gain I still wanted to give but first, I still wanted and go for another onsight, I made it up to the rest. It was quite powerful I wasn't feeling too fresh, so I think I spent there and then kept Un Chant pour Phil and the first ascent It's an endurance route Then there is a really big hold The crux is a dyno on very small holds, Then there is It's a really nice route. After the crux, I expected It was still quite challenging but I didn't let it go. OK! Oh, very lucky! Thank you, 8c, pretty bouldery with a dyno I don't know what saved me... Pretty happy about it! Katie is trying If she does it, I think Two really big moves... Maybe I just need And be stronger! And now it was give it a second try. After I fell I worked out the crux sequence I was back in this hole which not only but I was also getting So I was holding these two and made this big throw It was in the end But something interesting The top out is around 8b+. I decided just to not waste my energy before So now it was a little spicy. I think it was an interesting game And I didn't I wanted to, And it worked out! OK, take! Soyhieres is a place where it is It's a southern side or it rains This morning was raining so much it wasn't going to do it. We sent each other messages to see but finally, we tried anyway It was windy, dry, and cold. The last route of the day I can't really consider it because it shares the first few bolts But still, I didn't get any beta I was feeling quite tired, and the handholds It was a proper fight and I was &quot;Oh, where's the next hold, When this works out, it's one of the This route Those moments but you just keep going, In this lower part, Then you have some rests, another crux, You have to be And the route actually It was I was able to onsight and one 8c+ second go. And also, by the way, but we checked out You may be wondering to do so many routes For me, doing such is one of the most It's just so good especially And it's so much I had clear goals My priority number one I failed, didn't go for it for Instead, the second Then I went back And then to finish the day, to climb one more 8b+. So I think besides the first 8b+ I was going And the choice and the timing So I could take advantage and those amazing conditions Soyhieres definitely It was fun, as it's always fun trying They were not They were hard to read. I'm pretty proud of onsighting which I think It had some dynamic moves and I was I'm sure one day to check which haven't been bolted