IDEF 2023 international defense industry fair has started. Within the scope of the fair, our companies exhibit their new products, capabilities and talents one by one . In this context, I wanted to update both our new products and our knowledge on air defense systems, which we all follow with curiosity . If you're ready, I'm starting the GZT inventory. [Music] Patriott systems from the USA were deployed to Turkey, which felt the lack of an air defense system after the Gulf War in the 90s . Later, in order to meet the need for low and medium altitude air defense, second-hand Halk systems were purchased from the USA and Reper systems from the UK. Roketsan, which was established for the Stinger joint production project before starting the development of Hisar air defense systems , has increased its knowledge and experience with this project and other projects it initiated afterwards. Thus, in order to meet Turkey's low and medium altitude air defense needs, the first signatures for the low contact air defense missile system project Hisar A and the medium altitude air defense stress system project Hisar O were signed in 2011 and production activities were carried out in partnership with Roketsan, Aselsan and Tubitak/Sage. started. [Applause] With Siper, one of the most important components of the air defense system, Turkey will cross a very important threshold in air defense. It was produced to meet the high altitude air defense needs of the Air Force command . A contract was signed between the Presidency of Defense Industries and Aselsan, Roketsan, TUBITAK/Sage business partnership in order to limit, delay and destroy air-breathing targets, Cruise Missiles and air-to-surface ammunition attacks . The Siper Block 0 Missile , which we used in the Atmaca missile within the framework of the means we have, is based on the Hisar family , with various modifications and by installing it in the Hisar RF missile , and has a range of 75 kilometers. Siper product one, another missile of the Siper family , will take part in the integrated system level firing test for the first time and a multi-functional fire control radar was used. In the previous test, a range of 100 kilometers was reached with the Trench, and in addition to the Air rows used in the first test, the system was also used at low altitude in the last test. Hisar missiles are currently approaching their targets by increasing their energy in the terminal phase, thanks to the double impact effect system . As our missile exits the first launcher, it ignites the first stage engine and the missile continues on its way with the momentum it gains from there. In the initial and intermediate phases of the missile, that is, the first parts directed towards the target, the course of the missile is carried out by the 1st stage engine. At Terminal Safa, the phase where the missile will track and hit its target, a second power supply is provided from the same engine and the missile tries to hit its target. In single-stage engines, the engine starts at the first shot and stops after a while. The journey continues with the acceleration of the first operating phase of the engine. There is no engine that continues running until the target is hit. Because you cannot have an effect for that long due to the limited amount of fuel that the missile can carry . Therefore, as the range gets longer and you get closer to the target, your thrust decreases and your probability of hitting the target decreases. When Hisar missiles approach the target, they start their engine a second time, increasing the probability of hitting the target. [Music] Combining the advantages of destruction through artillery and missiles, Gurs can be used effectively against many different low altitude threats . The design based on the Anadolu Isuzu Seyit 8x8 vehicle includes the following systems: 35 millimeter cannon that can use granulated ammunition, 4 Bozdogan or Goktan derivatives, low altitude air defense missile, very low altitude air defense missile, fire control radar, 4 knee-mounted radars, Aysel radars, which have higher sensitivity and longer range , will provide continuous 360-degree coverage by looking at 4 years . An air defense system, such as one that accommodates the capabilities shared by a battery on a single platform , will be able to cover two or more layers of air defense at the same time. These systems also have the advantage of rapid deployment for the defense of convoys in critical areas. Gokdemir Air Defense, developed in cooperation with Aselsan and TUBITAK/Sage The system was showcased at Hedef 2023 international defense industry fair. Gokdemir Launching System will perform target interception under the command of the Fire Direction device or Hisar Fire Control Center . Gokdemir, whose deployment preparation and deployment time is quite short, has many features such as 360 degree threat destruction capability with its rotating turret structure, multiple engagement and sequential firing data link, intermediate class Guidance missile loading platform and crane system, reusable anists and wired radio communication. Gokdemir Launching System successfully completed its first firing test in June 2022, integrated with the Aselsan Fire Management Device . The mobile air defense system was developed with Roketsan's own resources to be used in the air defense of mobile and stationary units in the Burc battlefield . However, Burc, which uses 8 Sungur air defense missiles on 2 quadruple pots as weapons, is also equipped with 20 mm 3-barrel gun ammunition as an auxiliary weapon. The system, which has 4 Ayas spaces, provides a full environmental security network with its 360-degree tower rotation ability. In addition to being able to communicate with command and control networks with all-in-one control , it can also be integrated with air defense, early warning and command and control interface friend or foe recognition facilities. In addition to being able to be used connected to an external early warning device, the system also provides multi-purpose ease of use to the user, thanks to its ability to function independently with its own sensor systems . The system, which provides protection against fixed-wing aircraft, rotary-wing aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles, has a maximum effective range of eight kilometers, a minimum effective range of 500 meters and the ability to reach up to 4 kilometers with Sungur . The system, which has the ability to detect and track multiple targets at a 360-degree angle at the same time , will be able to meet many needs in today's battlefield with its high mobility in difficult terrain conditions . The system, for which ROKETSAN has completed prototype production, is now ready for mass production. Dostoy is preparing to take its place in the inventory of allied countries both at home and abroad, with its system cost effectiveness and high locality and nationality rate . The distributed deployment of systems such as radar, missile launcher and fire control center, which are integral parts of air defense, with new generation communication facilities provides significant advantages. With the role vehicles designed by ASELSAN for its super project, trench missile batteries can be deployed at distances of kilometers from each other . Thus, for example, when all vehicles are deployed in close order, the area where they communicate with a missile with a range of 100 kilometers is protected, while thanks to the distributed architecture, it is possible to defend a range of perhaps 200-250 km with systems deployed at distant points . Similar usage is also found in the Hisar system. It seems that we can protect a much larger area with this distributed architecture concept by using the means and communication facilities we have, instead of building a missile with a range of 500 kilometers, with Turkey's wide geography, the resources, production capabilities and budget we have. Target finding heads such as infrared sensor head and active radio frequency seeker head are used in Hisar A+, Hisar O+, Hisar Aref, Bozdogan, Goktan and Siper missiles . When the missile approaches the target, it does not necessarily have to hit the target. It is possible to damage the target and increase the probability of hitting the target by exploding near the target and creating a shrapnel cloud around it . Developed by TUBITAK/sage, the Nazar Target sensor approach fuze draws attention as a factor that will increase the hit probability of these missiles with the contributions it will make to missiles such as Goktan and Bozdogan, along with the Hisar air defense missile family . In addition , the installation of this system by TUBITAK/sage was a good development for the future. We saw Siper's Blok0 and Blok1 missiles. In the future, we will see the Siper Block 2 missile, the development of which has been completed by TUBITAK/sage, which has not been shared with the public before and was not developed based on the Hisar missiles . This missile, which could only be used against cold air targets in the first stage, has been further developed and can be used against Anti-Ballistic missiles or more advanced missiles. It seems like we will have the chance to see versions that will be used against air-breathing targets at long range . Turkey has a desire to develop an early warning platform via unmanned aerial vehicles . In the visuals shared by ASELSAN, Akinci and air defense system batteries are seen as an airborne early warning platform. Reflecting the system structure in graphics and presenting such a system setup shows us that there is a serious intention and desire for the future. Therefore, it would not be surprising to see Akinci as the airborne early warning platform equipped with Ayasa radar in Turkey's general layered Air Defense Architecture . [Music] We traveled around and saw our new products. I think you noticed this too. Each system you develop paves the way for another system. Turkey, which has had many problems in the past, such as not being able to supply embargoed products , is now at a loss for itself. In this context, I wanted to update both our new products and our knowledge on air defense systems, which we all follow with curiosity . If you are ready, GZT inventory starts. [Music]