The stupendous number of rebellions and civil Eastern Roman Empire is now a meme known to as many of them as the late XI-first half The Byzantines surrounded by the enemies on period affected a profound change in the region, Byzantines, Crusaders, Hungarians, Bulgarians, entered shaky, ever-shifting alliances and Welcome to our series on the events in Anatolia bookmarked by two Byzantine restorations. In this episode, we will set the stage, with dynasty in the Eastern Roman Empire and the Shoutout to Bespoke Post for sponsoring this Bespoke Post is a monthly membership bringing brands. They procured products for more than 38 million crisis, which helped these lesser-known companies and Bespoke plans to continue doing that. Every month they introduce new cool products. Bespoke is free to join and you can skip a Each of their boxes is at least 70$ in retail, don't like the box for the month, you can Bespoke kind sent us three boxes to try their Fillet is a box with 2 kitchen knives - they what I need. Meanwhile, Destination and Weekender boxes for the short-term trips and I have planned is also planned, I guess, I hope, I promise. Anyone can find something they will need with monthly box when you sign up at http://bspk.me/kingsandgenerals The Komnenian restoration that started in devastated Eastern Roman Empire still reeling needed to survive. Three Emperors of this dynasty who ruled for to a cultural, military and territorial expansion that would ultimately undo all of their progress. Alexios I and his son John II knew that one was the replacement of the theme system, which upkeep. The solution to this problem was a new system giving power to the royal family. Only the Emperor could hand out the titles who then had to supply Constantinople with In a very short span, the local aristocracy which received most of the titles and land. The competition was fierce and the entire reign in his family, with the result being control. On the economic front, the debased currency a gold coinage of higher fineness commonly The Empire experienced a revival in mosaic and annually hosted fairs and jousting tournaments. Then came Manuel I, who much like Justinian In 1167, Hungary was defeated at the battle of the empire. In Italy, Manuel first supported Conrad III pope in his conflict with the emperor of the He also fought wars against the Seljuks pushing Although largely successful, his wars drained created many enemies abroad and at home. Manuel placated the merchant republics of extensive privileges in return for naval and The rich trade republics bought their way the local populace as second-class citizens, who despised the Latins. When Manuel died in 1180 he was succeeded reality, his Latin mother Maria, the daughter of Poitiers ruled as regent. Right away she betrothed her son to the 10-year-old gave even more privileges to the Latin merchants III Hungary in the west and the Seljuk Turks Maria turned to her unlikely allies the Pope Maria Komnene, the Emperor's half-sister, would continue her husband's pro-Latin policies In 1182 they invited the exiled rebellious The latter sent his guards through the gates take justice into their own hands. Years of frustrations against the Catholics moments in the city's history, as tens of quarters given to them. The mob even cut off the head of the papal The 4000 westerners who barely survived the Andronikos quickly turned on Maria Komnene The usurper then forced the 13-year-old Alexios him as co-Emperor in front of the city crowd. Afterward, Alexios was strangled and the 65-year-old France who was just 12. The new emperor wanted to undo the reforms as they had now spiraled out of control and Andronikos forbade the sale of offices, appointed corrupted officials, and reconciled with the by the killing of the Latins in 1182. While the people in the provinces enjoyed populace of Constantinople who were subjected began conspiring against him. The city and province of Philadelphia rebelled, made their own attempts to break off, which Srem, Zara, Zemun, Belgrade, Branicevo, Nis army of Bela III and Stefan Nemanja with little the vassal of Constantinople, was forced to William II. All of this happened in 4 separate campaigns, The Byzantine army was paralysed and in disarray. That same Norman King led an invasion against sea at the head of a massive army alongside He first conquered Dyrrhachium and the Ionian on the Egnatia road to Thessaloniki unopposed, At the same time, a fleet of 200 ships arrived The great city was taken during the final sack where 7 000 people died. On September 11, 1185, while the Emperor was put a new candidate on the imperial throne: This caught Andronikos by surprise and after mob deal with him. For 3 days the former Emperor was tied to Then the old emperor was executed in a horrific Komnenos dynasty which both centralised and Isaac II immediately turned his attention the Norman invaders. A momentous event happened sometime during camp he granted the audience to 2 brothers offered their help against the Normans in Haemus mountains. In response, the Emperor's uncle John Dukas of the two in front of the Emperor and sent The conquest of Thessaloniki opened the road general Alexios Vranas won two victories, 7, 1185, at Demetritzes, largely due to the after extensive looting. Despite the fact that the Byzantines defeated of the lost territory lost, the Norman navy and crushed a force sent by Isaac II to retake While Byzantium was busy with rebels and invaders insulted by the emperor's servant rebelled elaborate propaganda campaigns. The region of the Haemus mountains centered was a multi-ethnic area with a mixed population Pechenegs as well as other semi-nomadic people The brothers were most likely Vlachs, but heritage and culture which not only endured control. Up to this point, the rich cattle herders with any conflict and remained loyal to Constantinople. To spread the flames of the rebellion the of the great Bulgarian tsars, changing their Ivan Asen, with Peter crowning himself with the throne for himself. Next, they took advantage of the recent sack the patron saint of the city, Saint Demetrius upon Tarnovo instead. One of his icons taken by the Normans made built wooden church. Peter and Asen declared their rebellion on an important date in the calendar of all Orthodox Finally, they brought in soothsayers, who as prophets, who told tales that additionally As the propaganda campaign was picking up heavily on the people of the region, especially to pay for the wedding to the Hungarian princess, concluded with Bela III in order to secure Bulgarian minor nobles - the boyars were already the Byzantine aristocrats, and this tax pushed However, the rebellion lacked the means to the old Bulgarian capital of Preslav, and more support. Desperate for new allies, Issac II offered of Montferrat, an ally of Manuel I, who distinguished in Italy In 1179. On his wedding day, he was also awarded the Shortly after Alexios Vranas, the man who by his victories and the support of his men of Adrianople. From there he marched on Constantinople in city. Despite some initial success, he was unable Conrad rallied the defenders and sallied out Alexios spotted the man and rushed over in the duel and his head. The rebellion was over and Conrad was a hero, ship and seek out more glory in the Holy Land, Crusade. Vranas was a popular general among the local the animosity between the Latins and the Greeks. With the Vranas rebellion dealt with, Issac the north and mounted against the Vlacho-Bulgarian The Byzantine astronomers knew that a total 1187. so Issac used that to his advantage and attacked The unsuspecting rebels were decisively routed The Emperor then took the capital with ease, hostage as well as recovering the icon of He then moved his army west to besiege Lovech, Despite the fact that the campaign was a military on it, since he left no garrison in Tarnovo, the help of their new Cuman allies. This forced Isaac to sign a peace treaty that Bulgarian Tsardom, but the hostilities were The emperor took this time to uphold the promises even expanded their rights, in return for loyal servant of the Emperor, the Venetians when called upon, in return for paying no 2 years later in 1189 the Venetian quarter French and German quarters in the city in had free access to, one that would become Roman Empire 15 years later. On October 2 1187 Saladin took over Jerusalem, Isaac II made an alliance with him to counterbalance with the Seljuk Turks was worrisome. After gathering at the initial starting point and Serbian lands where they were treated Nemanja proposed a coalition against Isaac initially assisted. Frederick refused and sent envoys to Isaac. Unfortunately, the emperor was fighting against of Philadelphia, and his courtiers didn't hostage, which started a limited war between The crusader journey in Byzantine lands was train by Cuman, Vlach, Bulgarian, Serbian When captured many admitted they were acting Mountain passes were blockaded and the cities with their defenses torn down. Meanwhile, Peter and Asen also sent a proposal if he would attack their common enemy. An offer that Frederick seriously considered From there he wrote to his son to gather a but that plan never panned out. In February of 1190, the crusaders clashed by Byzantium and soundly defeated them near Shortly after this defeat Isaac II sent terms past the strait free of charge. That same year the crusaders and the Seljuks Barbarossa was victorious and continued towards nor the Seljuks would trouble Issac for the Taking advantage of the absence of any Byzantine the region between Branicevo and Nis, but state first. A major expedition was launched in July 1190 to Preslav and Tarnovo while enduring the locals. While preparing to capture Strinavos a spy a new Cuman wave was south of the Danube ready The Emperor decided to move through the narrow two forces. The giant baggage train stretched for kilometers the vanguard commanded by emperor's cousin, sebastokrator Isaac Komnenos; the main body and his brother, the sebastokrator Alexios uncle, John Dukas, the man who slapped Asen Knowing exactly when and where the enemy would the pass and allowed the vanguard to go through direct imperial command. Isaac could not deploy his troops. Once the battle ensued the pinned roman soldiers above. In order to get out alive, Isaac II's bodyguards he was injured and lost his helm. The Vlachs and the Bulgarians captured parts relics. Upon learning about the attack, the rearguard which John Dukas escaped. Yet another ambush that decimated the army armor, funds, morale, and above all legitimacy. What followed was a whirlwind of conquests all the way to Stob. And what was up until now a dual leadership with Ivan Asen I being the leading figure Back in Constantinople Isaac II disguised launched a new campaign against Serbia, crushing There he accepted Stefan Nemanja as ruler forced him to abandon all agreements with a new attack, this time with the aid of Bela Bulgaria could obtain the power and status In 1192 the Emperor appointed one of his cousins and gave him Philipopolis. That man proved his worth by securing several the fold. Like many before him, his successes on the Constantine who rose up in rebellion against But when he wrote to his brother-in-law, who he was refused and the same supporters handed short-lived. With the capable defender now out of the picture, more deadly thanks to the assistance of Cuman Isaac II responded by bringing in Alexios with those of the west, that force was annihilated and pushed the border between the two entities Two expeditionary forces were sent to counter-attack feared that their commanders would lead them By this point, Isaac II was fed up by this its countryside, which grew out of control a massive invasion on two fronts. In March 1195 the emperor left the capital received reports that there was a plot to However, Isaac refused to believe that his This was a mistake, as soon Alexios III proclaimed his brother, and putting yet another campaign press towards Melnik and Serres. Two new armies under two new commanders were and their commanders captured. However what seemed to have been the greatest a tragedy as before the army reached Tarnovo by that time the Second Bulgarian Tsardom player in the region. The constant internal and external wars, raids, calm before the storm if we think about the That storm would soon strike Constantinople Our series will continue soon, so make sure button to see the next video in the series. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and