(light dramatic music) (suspenseful music) (light dramatic music) (wind whistling) (skydivers whooshing) (parachutes whipping) (suspenseful music) (speaking foreign language) (alarm blaring) - [Announcer] Any available Any available technician - [Zoe] 30, child abuse. - Witness procedure, robbery. - Assess, review, report. - Witness procedure, sexual assault. - Counselor, assess, review, report. - Coffee? - Low-fat milk, one sugar. - I'll get it. That's okay, I need the air. (light dramatic music) (car door slamming) - [Man] Mike Gob to physical plant. Mike Gob to the physical plant. - Going for a coffee. Can I get you guys anything? - Uh, you know, let me drive you. (suspenseful music) (golf car whirring) So can I ask you something? - Sure, go ahead. - Do you get paid overtime nights? - Well, only if you go past eight hours. - Huh. We get time and a half, but you make what? 36k a year plus benefits? - What you don't get benefits? - Oh, no they're pretty good. But is it hard to get into the academy? - [Man] Now for our east corridor. - [Security Guard] I'm at Checking in. - That's good. - [Security Guard] Uh, - [Security Guard] Clear - [Security Guard] Moving on - The job in central corridor. - [Security Guard] Pulling - [Security Guard] Same old, same old. - The reactor pressure- (video game booming) - I don't know. I hear they never accept - That's not true. It's good experience, right? They're always looking for - Really? - Yeah. - [Announcer] Maintenance We need maintenance to the B water pump. - [Weatherman] Cold snap cold temperatures will launch more wind throughout Southern California. Tomorrow's high reaching about 48. (switches clicking) - Bring it up .2. - Up .2. - [Syed] .2 up. (suspenseful music) (gunshot banging) (suspenseful music) - [Man] What in the hell? Captain? - [Collin] Come on, What do you got? - Main gate, main gate, respond. I repeat, main gate respond. - [Man] We've got a They're coming! (men grunting) (fist thudding) - [Security Guard] We've - [Man] Might be other sectors as well. - Code Red, clear the plant now. (alarm blaring) - [Man] Evac procedure. (gunshots banging) - Right in here. That's it. That's it. God, darn it. (speaking foreign language) (man groaning) - [Zoe] What's going on? - Rover Two, what's going on? - Engles. Engles, you there? - Maybe a drill? - [Man] Now, let's keep it moving. Let's go. Come on. - [Man] Let's go, people. Move. - This way. (alarm blaring) What do you think this is? - Well, they usually, They wanna see how we react. - [Zoe] Well, I'm going to call it in. Proceed 1580, I'm at San Juan Nuclear. We have a primary alarm. (alarm blaring) - Busy. I'm gonna lock it down. (mechanical door whirring) Hey, where the hell? (door thudding) (intense dramatic music) (speaking foreign language) (alarm blaring) (tires screeching) (speaking foreign language) (woman screaming) (speaking foreign language) - Still nothing. - Lower the reactor 20%. - [Scientist] Don't you wanna - We're shutting it down now! (alarm blaring) - [Zoe] What is that? - [Manolo] It's the reactor alarm. It's okay, it's okay. I'm not showing any radiation. - [Zoe] Proceed 1580. We have gunfire and explosions (gunshots banging) OC 3535. - Jesus. (gunshots banging) (speaking foreign language) - 911, slow down, sir. You're saying San Juan Nuclear Power Plant evacuation sirens? - Yes, sir. 911 emergency. Got it here, too. (alarm blaring) - [Man] Get out of the walls. Come on, come on! (workers yelling over each other) - Please sir, slow down. there an Army base near there? - Marine. - Right, it's like five miles- - From the plant. - [Dispatch] Yes, sir, - Anybody got a CO number on that? (woman screaming) (speaking foreign language) - [Man] Help! - Get outta the way! (workers talking over each other) - There's about five Heavily armed, explosives. There's a while panel truck approaching. Hang on. No, don't! No, no, no! (gunshots banging) (alarm blaring) - Good evening, I'm Robert Covasik. We are interrupting your with a breaking story where we have several unconfirmed reports of shots fired at the San We have been told that SWAT The San Juan Nuclear Plant that's about halfway between and it provides nearly 20% of the power to more than 15 million Once again, we have reports of shots fired and police responding at the (alarm blaring) (rifle pieces clicking) (keys jingling) (door thudding) (light dramatic music) (desk rattling) - Hands in the air. Down on your knees or I'll shoot. - Please, if leave now, Go home to your family. Go! (Khalid sighs) - Calibrating feed pumps. - I got 911. Uh, yes, listen. We're in the control - [Technician] Initiating (car engine rumbling) (door slamming) (tires screeching) - [Man] All right, keep moving this way. (helicopter whirring) (muffled radio chatter) - [Man] Clear the line, huddle up. - Yes, sir! (soldiers talking over each other) - [Woman] Don't hit your head. (soldiers talking over each other) - [Man] All right, people, - [Secret Service] we need you to come with us, please. - We're elevating the - When, Mr. Secretary? (phone beeping) (truck engine rumbling) (brakes screeching) (door clanking) (brakes screeching) (speaking foreign language) (tires screeching) (light dramatic music) (bomb timer beeping) (helicopter whirring) - Yeah, we need the NRC on their way. Oh, I know. Just, just, yeah, call my Tell me this is a drill. - It doesn't look that way, sir. - [Tom] Oh, shit. Thanks. - [Man] Oh, yeah, we need a satellite hook-up and feed us in. Repeat, satellite hook-up - All right, let's get full I need a secure satellite for DC. Someone start scanning with frequencies. I bet these guys are - Yes, sir. - [Steve] Agent Richie, Steve. - Agent Richie, I need you you can on this thing. I need specific details accents, whatever you can get. All right? You're in charge of that, okay? That's plenty, get going. (Steve sighs) - We have just gotten from the Department of Homeland Security that the national terror its highest level. The department statement says elevation is due to quote Nuclear Power Facility Once again, the Department for the first time since its inception, elevated our national terror alert to red. (police sirens wailing) (tires screeching) (heartbeat pounding) - Outside of the main gate. Spotting 911. (gunshot banging) (dramatic music) (gunshot banging) - Looking at this guy, I Okay, I want that. I want me in the foreground, Okay? Let's get this thing going. - [Cameron] Yeah, this to you live from the San - Okay, ready? - [Cameron] Where we've had an evacuation. - We're on? Some people are leaving, (muffled radio chatter) - I don't care if their I don't want people getting shot. You gotta button this place up. - [Jansen] 911's got the He's inside in the reactor control room. - What's his name? - Mr. Kahn. And do not transfer me to anybody else. I want to speak to somebody I'm Tom Shea, I'm Tell me how you are. - They're coming down the The door is steel and But they've already gotten - Well, what's happening with the reactor? - It is in shut down sequence now. - So is it safe? - For now it is. - We need a tactical team that control room right now! - Hello? Hello? Yeah, I'm gonna try and but I'm doing a couple other Okay? - Yeah, we're getting a team ready to go in and secure your area. I'll stay on the line with Is that a fair deal? - Deal. - How long until we can get a - CAG's on the way. Going over the plan, I'd say 20 minutes. - 20 minutes? I need 'em in there now. Get me someone from CAG command. - We've got a CHP officer Partners inside, lost contact. Sniper in the crane, several explosions. We also got their broadcast frequency. They appear to be speaking Arabic. - Well, let me put on - Everything they say streams here. - Let's get the FAA. We need to ground all We need satellite surveillance help. - Hello. They're, they're coming down the hallway. They're outside the door. Hello! - Oh my god. They're not blowing the door! (explosion booming) (wall thudding) - [Man] Unit four, east wall breached. All right. - They're in. (speaking foreign language) (shouting in foreign language) (speaking foreign language) - What did he say? - He says they are in control. (dramatic music) - [Man] Why don't you call in a plane? - So they brought this So we've gotta assume it has explosives. Now, what are these? - Those are spent fuel pools. They blow that up and we got a huge cloud of radioactive steam. - Thanks. And when you call Charlotte, I mean, they should get as - President's been briefed. Air Force One should be on VP's in the bunker. AG and Utley in the sit room. - Find out who's supposed CIA, NSA, we're not taking - Right. - Tom Shea. - No, daughter's wedding in Ireland. Shea's number two. - Watch Utley. (phone ringing) - Good evening, gentlemen. - Evening. - NRC is recommending a five Local law and media already have it. - Right now, we have to assume these guys are melting the reactor. - We're pulling plans as fast we can. You just focus on your end. - They're telling me Tom Shea is on this? - Nisa's out of town. Shea's SAC on the ground. - Shea? Tom Shea who punched out the - He was not pleased when they shut down the Cole investigation, yes. - Well, do we trust this guy? - Unless we get someone else in there, he's Special Agent in charge. - Well, if you're gonna We get in the middle of this thing and the public finds out not gonna reassure 'em. - Agent Hall? - He speaks the language. His father worked for an oil company, so he did most of his He knows these people. And he's our guy on the ground. - It's your call, Madame Attorney General. Okay, defenses on site. State and Langley are Treasury's doing economic impact. National Guard's being stationed around all national nuclear facilities. White House, Capitol, Pentagon are the class A targets, (light dramatic music) - Come over here. (Zoe hushes) (Zoe grunting) Come on, Manolo, you gotta help me. Okay, that's it. You're all right. Here we go. We're going back. Okay, come on Manolo. Come on, that's all right. I gotcha. Try to help me out here. I'm gonna try and lay you down, okay? Here we go. Here we go. Easy, easy, easy. Okay, okay. You're gonna be all right. - The president has cut short his trip from Japan and is returning with F-15 fighter escorts. We are told he will until he lands, but that with all senior government officials. Meanwhile, here we know has been dispatched to secure all nuclear facilities in the country. - [Tim] That's right Robert. In additional, all nuclear power plants have been ordered to shut down, resulting in power brownouts and blackouts from coast to coast, particularly It's important to keep in mind that these are to be expected- - I'm sorry to interrupt But we do have an update to give our viewers. We are now being told that the Department of Homeland Security of all nonessential personnel of the San Juan Nuclear Plant. Now, nonessential personnel would mean that all citizens who are not under the Homeland Security and firefighters would But all citizens within a five mile radius of the San Juan Nuclear Plant are now asked to evacuate immediately. You can see the area up This does include the to the north down to the Agra So if you are in that area, you are asked to go Do not wait to collect any personal items. Please go to your vehicles where we are told that you will be guided by police out of that area. We have also been advised to stress that this is a precaution only. But apparently, it is a - Do not think I would help you. I'd be killing myself, too. You may as well put a because I'm not going to melt down. I left Pakistan because - Syed, just let them be. - They will do whatever they will do. - Let them do what they- Shut up. (Zoe grunting) - All right. Okay, here we go. Put your head up just a little bit. I'm gonna put this under you. Here you go. You're gonna be all right, here you go. Okay. (Zoe sighs) (Zoe groaning) All right, there we go. Okay. (soldiers talking over each other) - [Boggs] Alpha and Delta, south gate, we're - Colonel Boggs, Tom Shea, FBI. - We're gonna have several - What does it look like so far? - Problem is once they they got a lock on every way in. Post 9/11, NRC shut crawlspaces, sealed underground piping, the perimeter's been electrified, the gates can stop - Yeah, that's a great system. It's too bad they left the So you guys don't run scenarios on this? Is that? - They train for insertion assault on Al-Qaeda bases, mostly in Afghanistan. - All right, so they train for Tora Bora. They don't run a drill on the nuclear facility down the street. - I thought that was the FBI's job? I know who you are, Shea. You're not the only one - It's good to be working - Where were we? - [Zoe] Dispatch 1580. Dispatch 1580. (Manolo wheezing) - Yeah, is five miles enough of an evac if the thing is melting down? - No, if it's melting down, no evac's gonna make a difference. - 'Cause the NRC can't give on how much info these guys could have. - That's 'cause most plant - [Jansen] But they were public before? - Yeah, so basically available to the world at BombOurAss.gov. (dial tone dinging) God! Lines are clogged. Did Charlotte reach Jess? - She said she was trying. - Because I want her out of here. - There's a high percentage - A high percentage. If they do see it, there's a - They're in the control room. They've got a bomb by the spent fuel. - Yeah, they haven't blown it. The longer we wait. The more we're gonna know. The easier it's gonna be - The longer we wait, Now look, we've got a I suggest we take it. - [Jansen] Agent Shea. - I'll keep it in mind. - We got something. - Dust around that side too. - Yeah, thanks. - Witnesses saw two vehicles looking men from this rental. Car rental closed at 9:00, - It's the Quran in Arabic. The bookmark, the day of wrath is coming. - Coming? It's here. - This was so damn easy to find. - This is Jansen. - Thanks. Rental home office got (muffled police radio) What? - It's a compilation of 9/11 names. There's no good end to this thing, man. - We do not know if those in Pakistan are in any is happening right now in California. But we do know that in the last hour we have seen several of these arrests. Pakistani president Pervez Musharraf promising to do anything the United States in this crisis. Meanwhile, in and around San Juan evacuation of civilians is continuing. Let's go to our local Mica Sultan is there. Mica. - Some people are leaving, and still others are hunkered down, hoping that this will all end quietly. But the confusion seems Robert. - We've been told officials are insisting everyone in the evacuation But we're also getting reports of people are stuck at road blocks. What can you tell us? - The highways are jammed, and authorities are unless they are in the As well, they do not want They know that people however they are requesting open for emergency services. - All right, thank you, Mica. And again, if you are trying to reach family within the evacuation- - [Khalid] Marwan. - There is a Red Cross phone It's right there up on your screen. And authorities are (speaking foreign language) (speaking foreign language) - Your accent, Kashmiri, by the border. - You've been there? - I've been everywhere. - No, I don't want to relay I just, yeah, put her and let them listen in. Yeah. - [Man] Bring it to me. You need to watch out. FBI, I'm the SAC. - I'll notify Alpha. - Uh, no my vest took And security guard's - Is it bad? - Now, are you guys in a safe place? - I don't know, but I'm, - You know, officer, I'd like Have you, you got a cell phone with you? - Yes, I do. I'm gonna give you a to call me back at that number. Can you do that? - Yes, I can. - Got it, hang on. (Zoe groaning) (phone beeping) (truck engine rumbling) (phone ringing) - [Tom] Now, can you tell me how many guys they got in there? - Mm hm. I saw four, but I heard so I would say at least two more. At least six altogether. - Okay, did you happen to - Uh, automatic weapons, grenades. Sure know how to clear place out, huh? What's going on here? - Well, that's, that's just Hey, officer. You're doing good in there, okay? You're doing great. - Uh huh. Listen, I, um, I think he might be dying. - Okay, listen. You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna put you on with a medic, and he's going to give you some things that you can do for him, okay? Can you do that? - [Zoe] Yes I can. - Now, I'm here any time Have you got a family we can call? - Don't tell my mother. She'll try and come get me herself. - Hey, you know what? Sounds like we've got the same. (light dramatic music) (speaking foreign language) (flag rustling) (speaking foreign language) (bomb beeping) (light switch clicking) - Well, NRC issued a statement saying that if there is a meltdown, - That true? - I don't care if it's true. I got 16 highway deaths. I got looters in Pomona. I've got a mother and kids themselves up inside a room. If the statement keeps people - Yeah. - Got an address from a And I think they're in there without you. - Agent Ritchie, I need Two minutes. - Do we have time? - The sooner we move, are at containing this whole thing. - Listen, we have name, It doesn't make sense to move before we know what's going on. - We know what's going on. - You said the name was fake. - Yeah, they left it for a reason. If these guys wanted to blow the fuel, we'd all be choking on These guys want something. - If the CAG team is ready to go- - Yeah, no, no, I'm not I'm just saying hold back a sense of who these guys are. - They're Arab terrorists How much more do we need? - [Tom] Well, if- - How long are you asking for? - [Utley] I wanna know why he's asking. - We need to go in immediately. - If CAG on sight is willing to take responsibly- - Yeah. This is security footage Have a look. - [Zutrow] Hm, how long - Uh, they cut it when they - Colonel, are you going - We will, but it looks like it already confirms everything we - They're wearing masks. - In every report the they're wearing masks. Suicide bombers don't hide their faces. These guys have an agenda. If CAG goes in, they're If we wait, maybe we'll - How long do you feel we need to- - Sorry it interrupt. Carlton Mansfield, NRC. - Agent Shea. - Colonel Boggs, Special Agent in command. Why don't you have a seat over here. - Mansfield, we've got And have you guys even run a - We've run tests. simulations on the ground? - We are to code. With costumes and three hostiles and giving the plant - And they still fail half the time. - Less than half, and that's how we- - Okay, hey, hey, guys. What are we looking at? Bottom line, worst case, - We're working up current numbers now. But we ran a containment 50 mile contamination zone. Health defects, 910,000 people. Within a few miles of the plant, we get maybe 130,000 prompt fatalities. - Population's doubled since '81. - Police are reporting throughout Southern California. Convenience stores and all have been stripped bare. Authorities are urging all those outside the immediate evacuation area to remain calm and inside their homes. As assurances now come about the safety of nuclear power plants to withstand this sort of crisis, with us now from of Harvard University. Dr. Walsh, thank you for being here. - Thank you, Robert. - Dr. Walsh, what are the - Well, a meltdown by any We have some experience with Chernobyl. If a meltdown happens, what radioactive debris that is lifted up into the atmosphere and carried Certainly, the folks around the emergency responders, But others will face risks as well. And then there are other economic, psychological consequences, and of course, consequences for the So it's something we want - This is something the United States has never dealt with before. - Nothing quite like this. Of course, there was Three Mile Island. But never have we had a terrorist attack on a nuclear power plant. And so we are in uncharted - Uh, I'm sorry, Dr. Walsh. I gotta cut in here for a minute. We are getting reports of A webcast? Okay, we are now getting reports of a broadcast via the internet. This is coming in live. It is raw footage. We don't know what to expect here. It appears to be from those inside the control room at the San Juan Plant. - They're saying it's a internet access on a prepaid mobile phone, server somewhere in Croatia. - [Khalid] If you should die or be slain in the cause of god, his would surely be better than all riches. You see where we are. - [Tom] That's straight from the Quran. - [Khalid] You see how easy it was. So we ask you, are you afraid? Because today, America, it (muffled talking) - [Tom] What's going on? - There's blueprints, manuals, plans, photographs all over the place. It's not San Juan, but it seems familiar. With a lot of Arabic notes. We've got a translator flying it. - Well, shoot it and leave it to me. - We will, but we got a lot of stuff here. - [Tom] Yeah, why did they leave it? Why leave it for us to find? - Maybe they didn't care. You got neighbors? - [Jansen] We're in an evac zone. Looks like the parking lot We're looking. - Well, find out who owns the building. - [Jansen] I got a lead on the super. - And in addition to terrorists inside San Juan video images showing just to take over one of our Jim Walsh is still with us from Cambridge. When you look at all of how has this all changed since - Well, there has been change. And some of it, a lot of The Nuclear Regulatory Commission I think was slow to respond at first. But eventually, February after 9/11, issued orders requiring to upgrade their security. I think there were changes. There are positive changes. The NRC was taking the threat But the question was speed of action. It's not simply acting. It's acting quick enough. And we'll have to wait quickly enough in this case. - And I'm sure there'll be in the coming weeks and months ahead. But I'm sure you also our focus is entirely on So we're gonna go back now to Mica Sultan, who is live at the San Juan Nuclear Plant. Mica, the video images included footage of a truck. It was seemingly packed with explosives and positioned in a very Near, what I am told, are So what can you tell us about that? - Apparently the area where is designed to withstand However, no one knows a bomb detonated right at its center. I'm told that an explosion a plume of radioactive steam across the entire southwest. One expert said that we could be looking at a catastrophe on par with Chernobyl. - And Chernobyl, of course, was the Russian nuclear for several days back in 1986, poisoning an area roughly In addition to the explosive we heard disturbing words, - [Khalid] If you should die or be slain in the cause of God, his would surely be better- desecrate the Quran. You think your police give It's an affront to Allah. - I'm not hurting people. I'm saving them. - You are a weak man who grabs power to make yourself feel stronger. - I have fought for my people. I have killed for my people, I and it has changed nothing. Today, we will make things change. (Manolo panting) - [Zoe] It's all right. (Manolo gasping) (Manolo exhaling) - [Khalid] You see where we are. You see how easy it was. - Still working on the accent. Well how about a country? - They're debating. - You know, it feels like And Al-Qaeda doesn't issue So maybe we're dealing with someone else. Like Abu Sayyaf, Jemaah Islamiyah. - Shit, there's over 30 organizations on the states hot foreign terror list. - Some of the guys jumped in. That's new. That takes sophisticated training. Does any of the groups in the hot list have operatives with that kind of profile? - No, there's very little human - We got anything on the plane? - The FAA says the plane went Flight originated in Mexico. But private aircraft, no flight But that's, that's a couple of days off. - Can we control his communications? - We found his server. We shut down his IP address. That should keep him off for a while. - Any luck on the face? He knows exactly what he's doing. (speaking foreign language) He wants us to know they're ready for us. They know our protocols. Pull anyone on the hot See what that turns up. - [Ritchie] Yes, sir. (light dramatic music) (Velcro ripping) (Zoe panting) (keyboard clicking) - Would you please let him turn his cell phone on to call his wife? Just to talk to her for a minute? - Thanks. (Chuck sighs) (phone beeping) (phone ringing) Hello? It's for him. (speaking foreign language) (phone clicking) - Gone. - Let's try to get him back. - Well, he said we'd speak again later. That's a good sign. - Unless he's just buying time. - No, these guys don't buy time. The average terrorist incident is over inside of three minutes. We all know that. Something else is going on here. - My CAG teams can get in put an end to this. - Yeah, I know you I heard you. - You think my first in to get shot at every time? It's my last move, every time. I'd love to stand back, keep my guys safe, and let the FBI wait But I don't believe we - No, we don't. They've been one step I'd like to catch up before we move. - Sir, it's your officer inside. - [Tom] Officer Cox, you okay? - Listen, he's dead. So, um- - I'm sorry. - My chest is really hurting. I think I might have - That, that hit may - I'm having a hard time breathing. - Well, you know, I tell you what. I took a hit in the vest it hurts like a son of a bitch. But it's, it's not gonna kill you. I can promise you that. - Okay. Sorry. - Hey, hey, no, you're doing It's just, I just want and to keep your cell phone on for me and turn it on to silent, - No, I don't, I don't - He would want you to protect yourself. Wouldn't he? - Listen, my partner was - He's fine. (Zoe sighs) - Okay, thanks. - You may kill someone simply that his death or her death which is useful for your particular cause. - What do you think fuels terrorism? - What fuels terrorism is hope, It's hope of success. - All right, Professor Rapoport. I do wanna come back the thinking of these terrorists. But right now we have just been informed that throughout Asia and have suspended trading at this hour. The entire world focused on the coast of Southern California. - We're already getting with people who think they've as far away as Arizona. - Guy in Riverside thought Shot two of his neighbors. I think we should send in the guard. - Can't do it, already stretched too thin. - The NRC says potential damage is way outside the five mile zone. Shouldn't we start at least Get them the hell out of there? - Evacuate 25 million people You wanna run some logistics on that? - Even if we could, do you that half a dozen terrorists can affect the lives of this many people? - They have affected the - You want more panic? What if we suddenly find ourselves - All we can do is tell and then pray to God it's true. People find out the real risks, we'll have thousands dead in the panic. - NRC just came in with some new numbers. Have a listen. - We've got a wind blowing off shore. Our weather people say it should hold a couple of hours, at least. Get a RAD cloud during that window, we're looking at vastly - Numbers. - Well, that should depend on- - Mansfield, plain-English. - Offshore wind, 150 to Onshore wind, 500 to 750. Right now, the wind's in our favor. - We go in now, we reduce our We wait, wind shifts, numbers go back up. - Yeah, but these guys will spot it. They've been inside five hours. All they've done is lock us You know, they're leaving Al-Qaeda, they're not using Our best guys still can't The guy, Khalid, just told That gives us time. - And we're supposed to trust him? He could be trying to - And if he is and we could've - Well, yeah, but this is it. Are they or aren't they? 'Cause we've got two nightmares here. Either they blow the spent And if they're melting, yeah, we go in. We take the risk on the fuel If they're not, we don't We wanna know who they are. Now, I mean, are there, are there gauges like not in the control if they're trying to melt. - Sure, but they're all inside the plant. - I got a pair of eyes inside. - I'm right here. if you look west now- - You got an idea of where west is? Yeah, you're gonna see to your right a whole long section of pipes. You wanna follow that section - Okay. - [Tom] You can do this. (light dramatic music) - [Jansen] Are you the building super? - [Building Super] Yeah. - [Jansen] What can you - There's a bunch of But the Khalid guy pays the rent. - You run a credit check on the rental? - He paid cash. First, last, security... Look can um, we do this in the morning? I kinda got something - It's sorta time sensitive. Anything else? Vehicles, girls? - Saw him at Scarlet's once. Tried to hide, got all embarrassed. Girls are against his - Scarlet's? - Yeah, the strip club. I think that Khalid guy was - Some Islamic fundamentalist, huh? Mind if I come inside? (suspenseful music) - [Zoe] All right. - That's it. - [Zoe] I think I see it here. - Yeah, this route, Zoe, it's But it's gonna get you past You can do this. - Okay. - Isolated reports of looting have come in from Los Angeles and San the nation have been shut down, and hospital emergency rooms are flooded with patients fearing they We have been told definitively no radiation detected in that area, and that the five mile is strictly a preventative Mica Sultan is on the and can tell us how the Mica. - It is just after midnight And it's the same story for Nothing is moving. - Thank you, Mica. We are now taking you where we are told that Frank Utley is speaking with reporters outside the situation room at the... Do we have that feed? We do. Homeland Security Secretary Frank Utley. - Oh, I think the best to stay calm and stay put. - [Reporter] Is there, is - No, no, in order for there it would require the simultaneous failure of two separate cooling - Mr. Utley. - [Reporter] Just how safe is - Well, a containment And even this five mile evacuation is considered by many of our Uh, we are of course- - This is not true. They know you can dump the - You said yourself, they know. See if they warn the people. (reporters talking over each other) - [Frank] Ladies and gentlemen, (speaking foreign language) (dramatic music) (bomb beeping) (suspenseful music) - Still nothing from your officer inside? - Not yet, no. - Colonel Boggs, your team's ready to go? - They are, sir. - We cannot go in while we- - It was a good play, Shea. It really was. But we can't wait. - We're not gonna just stand by. - We're not just standing by. We have someone on the inside. - Decision's been made. Colonel Boggs, send them in. (light dramatic music) - [Soldier] 06 this is 21 Alpha. Baseline one clear. Moving forward. Out. (light dramatic music) (static buzzing) 06 this is 21 Alpha. Breach general perimeter. Out. (Geiger counter beeping) Hold up. They're getting readings. Pull back. The zone's hot. We're pulling back. Back! - Let's move. They're getting RAD readings. - It's melting. - [Man] We gotta help 'em. (camera clicking) (helicopter whirring) - Satellite surveillance says it's clean. Didn't pick up a thing. - What, CAG gets radiation on the ground, and the satellite says it's not here? - We're trying to figure it out. Give us 10 minutes, and I'll (phone ringing) - Jansen, what do you got there? - Not much. pretty hot down here. - CAG tried going in, and And the satellite aren't So nobody knows what the hell's going on. - Oh, man. - Listen, I need somebody up in Sacramento that I can trust to deal I want you to chopper up there. Okay? Bring Charlotte and Jess - Tom. I can trust up there. - [Jensen] I think you need me here. - I don't need you here. Look, if something happens, - I'm not leaving. I've got your back. I'll have a composite for you any minute. - If this happens, we'll That means a military perimeter. - Well, how many people are - Is the wind still with us? - The weather people say that it is. - They've asked us to - Working on it. After 9/11, we hit Afghanistan Iraq, about 20. We get nuked, and the a proportional response; nuclear. President wants to have that option. I'll be back as soon I have TC on our subs off the coast of Yemen. They're spinning the missiles. They want them hot and ready. (dramatic music) (phone ringing) (keyboard clicking) - [Khalid] The more people you send in, the more people will die. - Are your hostages all right? - [Khalid] It seems we have - [Tom] Yeah, yeah, you do. You want to share why that is? - [Khalid] You don't know? - You're showing your strength. - [Khalid] Showing your weakness. Using your technology against Showing how your government leaving all of you exposed. They don't care about you. They only care about themselves. - He's on the air. He's on the air. Shut him down. - We can't shut him down. - Set up on a duplicate server. - Figure it out and shut him down. - Shea, get him off the line. - Well, you've certainly got - [Khalid] I hoped I would. - But for what? I mean, you're obviously very smart. You're very committed. - [Khalid] They teach you to flatter like that in the academy? - It doesn't mean it isn't true. - [Khalid] Sounds like who need flattering over there. - You know, I'm talking to you. I'm not talking to them. - [Khalid] I want people to Says they're safe, all the while they- (static buzzing) - He's off. - [Khalid] You cut my broadcast. You cut my broadcast! Get it back up. - Go! - Go! - [Agent] Federal agents, - Clear. you're under arrest. Come on, get up. Right now. - Yeah, so you're on your way, then. Yeah, good. No, no, no. No, just take the, yeah take the freeway and use my badge, and yeah, yeah. That'd be nice. That'd be, yeah make a fire. What's happening with the reactor- No, it's just... And our guys still, they still It's been, Jess? Jesse? Jess? (muffled police radio) Hey. Your CHP officer's on. - Thanks, got it. Zoe, you near the gauges? - I think so, almost. - And how are you doing? - Okay, a bit better now How about you? - Oh, well, they haven't demoted me yet. - Like that's gonna happen. - Oh, it wouldn't be the first time. - You? - Yeah, I was on the USS Trace fibers matched DNAs, got two of the cell heads in custody. Had more leads, then they shut us down. Then the terrorists walked, and the ambassador cared than getting the bad guys. - So, how'd that get you demoted? - Before I left the country, I might have punched someone out a little. (light dramatic music) - Okay. I think I'm here. Okay. I'm here and I'm going in. - Zoe, I'm going to put Mike, Mike, it's Zoe. He's gonna walk you through this. Put her on the com, would you? - [Mike] Hello, Zoe? - Hello. Where you are, there - Okay. Yeah, two, two rows. I see 'em, I'm right in front of 'em. - Okay, start reading me the information on the first one on the bottom left. It's labeled Core Temp. - Okay, hang on. Okay. Core Temp. It's, um, it's green. It says normal. That's, that's good, right? - That's great. Just what we wanna see. Just above that? - Yeah, um, Turbine Trip and Reactor Trip. And they're both green, and there's um, Primary Feed Loop, but it's way below the red. - I need you to find Reactor Pressure. You see that? Right below the last one you read. - Okay. But I, I, I can't see it. The glass is totally clouded over. What do you want me to do? Is it safe to break the glass? - It's not gonna affect the system, but it will send an alarm - Agent Shea. - Hi, Zoe, hi. Yeah, it's me. Listen, some of our guys got in close, and they got some RAD readings, right? But the satellites are Now, we're making some big decisions here, and they're really riding on whether or not the reactor is bleeding. - Okay. So I break it, read it, and get out. Right? (light dramatic music) Okay, I'm gonna do this. (glass shattering) (alarm beeping) (speaking foreign language) It looks like it's about 1,100 PSI. - 1,100? Way below normal. Everyone, the reactor's cooling down. - So they're not melting it? They're not doing anything to it? - Absolutely stable. - All right, alert DC. - Sir, I got it. I picked up radio calls. I think they found her. - Zoe, you gotta move. - Okay. - [Sam] Nine hours into the crisis. And as we await news from the power plant, the toll of the dead and injured in panic across the Looting in Los Angeles has escalated into full blown rioting, and violence continues to - Terrible to hear, Sam. We're also getting reports now of violence as far away as Baltimore, where, according to our a mini riot, if you will, has broken out as police are who are storming stores And meanwhile, all the and wait to see what will happen next at the San Juan Nuclear Plant. - So how could their tags go positive if there isn't radiation? - Are you questioning my guys? - No, I'm asking. Look, you made your best call. If I was in your shoes, I - No, you wouldn't have. - You know, whatever goes on So even if we live through this, they could still hang our asses So the tags, I mean, is there something that can make them turn? - There's an iodine uses in training that can trigger these meters without radiation. - So somebody uses them in They'd pull out? - They're trained to pull - Well, who can get their - That's not easy. It's totally classified. - [Jansen] Khalid's stripper - Copy that. - Like I was saying, totally classified. (dramatic music) (Zoe panting) - If you don't tell me you're gonna spend the rest of your life in a cell on Guantanamo. - I don't know. - That's not good enough. - We met in the club a few months ago. I felt sorry for him. - Sorry? - He was sick, cancer. So I sleep with him to It's not a crime. - Hm. What kind of cancer? - Syndrome, he called Uranium in the bomb shells, he said. - What, he talked about Afghanistan? Did he talk about training on small bases or fighting for the Taliban? - Taliban? No, for this country. - Khalid's an American soldier? - Of course. But, Khalid? This is Eddy, Eddy Sands. - He's a decorated officer. - What country? - The US of A. Major Edward Sands, Delta Force. I'm betting they're all Our terrorist is GI Joe. (dramatic music) - While celebrations continue offers of help are flooding Canada and Mexico are with our military to secure the borders. We also have reports that carrying hundreds of thousands from Israel's own stockpiles. Potassium iodide is believed medication to protect against FEMA, facing a critical shortage, to areas throughout Southern California. - He's got a Silver Star for bravery, two Purple He grew up in Fort Wayne. - Why all the Al-Qaeda leads? I don't get it. they want us to believe Your guess is as good as mine. - How the hell do we have in there posing as Arab terrorists? - Well, Sands and his guys The rumor is they had Bin Laden cornered, and they got word to lead a convoy through to let them escape. And it was some part of for access to air bases in Pakistan. He was there, he reported He got reprimanded. That kinda thing that change a man. - You're justifying him? - I understand him. The terrorists that our investigation in Yemen, How are they gonna come back? Biological, chemical, a nuclear plant? I think he's trying to make a point. That's why the reactor's stable. - Do we have IDs on all of them? - They all served under Sands in Delta. - All diagnosed with cancer Depleted uranium syndrome - That goes public, could get ugly. - We have reports that have been scrambled in the Persian Gulf, and US battleships are already on the move in the Middle East. We are told that the has declared an official meaning that an overt attack has been or is being made upon the United States. All military forces are on - Where are we on their - We got 'em shut down for now. - Yeah, but he's smart. He's going to come right back up again. - How do we end this thing? - You know, I think the for the weight of real explosives. I think the bomb's a fake. - They can't blow anything up. - And we've been here for 11 hours. We sit it out another day and a half, the reactor will be cool - In 11 hours, we've had more injured, shooting, - Mr. Shea, this country cannot afford to wait another day and a half. (dramatic music) - Okay, let's do it. - We'll start now. (dramatic music continues) (light dramatic music) - Jess? Jess? - Uh, I'm sorry. - Nothing to be sorry for, - I, I can't make it. I know I'm letting you down. - We're here. Whatever else happens, we did this thing. - I know. - You're a great soldier, Jesse. (Jesse gasping) - We all are. We're combat dead. Don't forget that. - You know, I don't even All I ever wanted to do was, was fight. - Come on. (Jesse groaning) (dramatic music) (Jesse groaning) How are you doing? - I'm okay, sir. - Not long, now. (dramatic music) - [Soldier] Go! (Zoe sighs) (static buzzing) (bomb beeping) (dramatic music) - Marwan, you left your sector. - Couldn't raise Jesse on the radio. - He's not doing so good. How about you? - Yeah, well I'm ready to die. - Go back to your post. We're gonna end this thing soon. - End it? What do you mean? What do you mean end it? - Make the broadcast, let Walk out of here and get Jesse some help. - We're not walking out of here. - I'll stay until you guys are out. - We die here today. You know that, Khalid. - Okay, listen, Zoe, I need to know where you are so I can pull you out of there. - I'm on my way out. - I need you to work your way Where are you? - Primary pump LB2N. (bomb beeping) - Zoe? I think I see something. - [Tom] Okay, just tell me what you see. Zoe? What do you see? (Zoe groaning) - I don't know. It looks It's black, it's taped - That's the primary pump system. If they've set one of these on and they blow them both, (gunshots banging) Zoe? Zoe! (light dramatic music) Boggs! - He says it's already happening. There's no way to stop it. - Go through! - [Soldier] On my cue. - How long before we're up again? - We'll have you online in three minutes. - What the, who are you people? - American soldiers. - You're militia? - No, we're... Imagine someone had hijacked and flown them past the towers. - That's what this is? A warning? All this for that? - All of this for that. A lot of people could have died tonight. Why? Nuclear power plants, chemical water supplies all vulnerable tweezers from grandmother's. Nothing changes until people are afraid. (phone ringing) Time to end this. (phone beeps) Yes? - Major Edward Sands, we have a problem. - Let us explain ourselves. We have no problem. - You need to tell me about the bombs. - The reactor is safe. The truck is a- - Not the truck, that's a dummy. I know. The bombs on the pumping system. - There are no bombs on the pump system. - Where's Boggs? - They're moving, they can't be stopped. - Pull him back. Listen, you have bombs at - You got a reason to - It's there. Listen, I just lost an Now you need to tell me (suspenseful music) - One of my men. When we pulled up the plans, I'll deal with him. - No, you can't just take care of it. If both pumps blow, the Now, you need to tell me what is going on. - Marwan. His name is Raul Lida. He was held by Pakistani Who knows what happened. - Well, they turned him. - Listen, our guys are not We have guys going in there. You need to get your guys' to stand down. - If he set those bombs, I don't know why he waited till now. But he sees CAG coming in, he'll blow it. - [Tom] Listen, when you see me, just get your guys to open the gates. (dramatic music) (bomb beeping) - Why hasn't it already been detonated? What are they waiting for? - They must be waiting - [Man] We got an FBI - I sure hope to God he (suspenseful music) - [Man] Team leaders, stand down. FBI agent entering main gate. End message. Repeat, team leaders, stand down. FBI agent entering main gate. End message. (static buzzing) - Let him pass. - [Man] It's Bravo leader, I copy. - [Man] Delta leader, roger that. (light dramatic music) - On his own, he just went in? - He's got no authority. I want that on the record. - There is no record, Susan. - This changes nothing. We're still going in. - Secretary Utley, he's We can't just let the - You're the one to let him walk in there. He knows what's happening. If he gets hit, he gets hit. - I've been working He's been right every step of the way. If he says we're in trouble, I trust him. Bottom line. (light dramatic music) - Where is he? - Primary pump system. - Can we get in there? - No. He'll feel us coming. Backup system's gotta be wired, too. - We'll go there. - Come on, try him again. - [Jansen] Shea, come in. - He's the federal agent in He's on the inside. - You put it off, it's daylight there. Then what? - Decisions done, Colonel. Get it done now. - Yes, sir. (light dramatic music) - Listen, you know this guy. Tell me why he waited. Why didn't he just blow it I mean, is there a chance - I don't know. - Well, we, we need to know. We need to know what the hell... (flag pole clanking) Maximum damage. That's what he was waiting for. - What? - Raul was waiting for the wind. - They're coming. He sees them, he's not (intense dramatic music) (Tom groaning) Shea. - Oh, shit. - It's wrapped with primer cord. Detonator goes off, it'll - What do you need me to do? - I gotta cut the cords, every one. You've gotta hold the - Extremely still. - It's a mercury switch. Slightest movement, it blows. - Okay. What do you think I'm gonna do? Shoot you in the head and (Sands sighs) (gun clanking) - No! Two hands. (Tom panting) Raul. I should have known. He shouldn't have been here. - None of you should have been here. (dramatic music) (suspenseful music) (bomb beeping) (beeping continues) (cords snapping) (Sands grunting) (Sands grunting) (Tom gasps) (gunshots banging) (Raul grunting) (building creaking) - We've got a major explosion The secondary systems appear stable. Repeat, the primary systems are offline. (pipes hissing) (Sands groaning) - I should put a bullet - Go ahead. Cancer, gunshot, meltdown, - What are you doing here? - My men and me were poisoned by weapons made of uranium And Washington just lets not a word of warning to people. They don't care. Like they didn't care - You care. - All the people that died tonight, in the panic, on the streets! - People die so others can live. It's what we do. That's what you signed up for. The people out there - I've been here 11 hours. And what has the government done? A five mile evac? Real terrorists could have It was the only way to show them. - What real terrorist wouldn't say that? (dramatic music) (pipes hissing) - Kill the power. Insert Bravo and Delta squad. (helicopter whirring) (lights whooshing) - Water's draining from the core. Primary pumps are down. Backup's not coming on. (dramatic music) (alarms beeping) - [Tom] Drop your weapon. Drop your weapon right now. - Lower the weapon. - Are you Shea? - Primary pumps are down. Secondary's not responding. - Soon as they cut the power for the raid. - We're leaking water. It's getting very hot. - We have to get the - Look, you do what you need to do. (pipes hissing) (lights whooshing) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) (gunshot banging) (power whooshing) (man groaning) - Okay, just wait? Okay, the number one emergency Safety injection pump is online. - I've got it too. It's coming on. - Come on, come on, please. - Okay, the reactor cooling temperature is moving down toward normal. - Okay, pumps are going. Let's secure it. (explosion booming) - [Man] On on the ground! On the ground. Nobody move! (gunshots banging) Hold your fire! the core will explode. - I have to save the injection - Do not move! No one move! - He's the engineer! - Just call command, tell Boggs it's Shea. - The pump, the core is exposed. You've got to let me do this. (gunshots banging) God damn it! He's a hostage! - You gonna shoot me too? He's my prisoner. Mine. - Forget it, Shea. They're not gonna let me walk out of here. American soldiers doing what we did. We're dead Arab terrorists. That's the story. - You call Boggs. You tell him he's my prisoner, and I'm walking him out of here alive. (light dramatic music) (Chuck whimpering) (keyboard clicking) (light dramatic music) Just stay close. We're - Shea, it ends here. - Don't. (gunshots banging) (body thudding) - [Newscaster] At 6:22 in a daring predawn raid, all seven terrorists were killed, and the San Juan Nuclear According to authorities, the terrorists were Islamic splinter group operating At the White House, the President to go about their normal And the President reiterated his pledge to once again defend the - I don't know how it could have happened. Clearly, in this race, who wanna do us harm who are trying to improve and defend ourselves from those folks, we appear to have lost There was always a chance could be subject to attack. There was controversy within as to whether it was a real target or not. But I think most of us would have said, would have said, given about symbolic targets and to the US, that it was at that a US nuclear power plant And now I think we're gonna You know, after the 9/11 disaster, there were hearings and Well, did we do everything And the, a lot of the folks said, well, we, we didn't We didn't have actionable intelligence. Well, you're not gonna be People knew there was a problem. They simply weren't addressing the problem as completely or as quickly