Witness: What is it? Narrator: UFO sightings seem from what look like flying squids to mysterious floating rings. Narrator: Unidentified flying objects are by no means a new phenomenon. But these days, it's easier And the US government that they exist. The Pentagon even released UFO videos captured by the military But how can you tell what they are and whether they're from We went through dozens of UFO videos, some taken by regular people, others once classified, to figure out what's really going on. Mick: One big problem we have with UFOs is that there's so much evidence, but there's so much really bad evidence. Narrator: Mick West is an with a background in He calls all the evidence out there bad because the videos are often poor quality or have logical explanations. Mick wouldn't have been fooled by this. Mick: This gap in the trails. And that's something that's of a two-stage rocket. One stage is finished, they switch it off, they jettison it, and then they fire up the Narrator: Turns out, there that launched from Vandenberg about 130 miles from Announcer: Liftoff. Narrator: In fact, Mick had an explanation for every single suspected These are actually pyrotechnic skydivers. These are people who jumped out of a plane with flares attached to their ankles, and they're just basically Narrator: He's right. That night, at a college there actually was a by the US Navy Parachute Mick: It looks to me But we've seen green ones before, and they look exactly like this, and they move at about that speed. Narrator: Other videos from the same night captured a similar And according to NASA, it was one of the most active Mick: The green comes the chemical composition of the meteorite. Witness: That's in the That's some kind of kite, some kind of a kite that is being flown. And we often see kites with Narrator: We found that there and a kite shop around And about a month earlier, a local publication confirmed that an octopus-shaped kite in the sky, and that an alien Mick: I think probably has dropped two flares from They're being used to illuminate to try to find a capsized When it's, you know, it's about to go out, and they'll come into view. There'll be a few seconds and then the bottom ones, which are now lower, will fade out. Narrator: And there actually on the beach at Cape Lookout in the direction of the Mick: This actually is a smoke ring. It could be something The heat makes the smoke ring rise. And because it's from you get this vortex, a circular vortex that goes all the way around, and you see it rising up just that someone blows from a Another way you see these happen is from transformers exploding. This is kind of a fairly common thing. Narrator: These apartment are actually near several factories where something like as well as a number of firework stores. And right after this incident in Canada, it turns out local government officials tweeted about a power outage. Mick: It's not unidentified The literal definition of UFO is just an unidentified flying object, and a bird or a plane in the distance can be an unidentified flying object. Narrator: In April 2020, the Pentagon declassified three videos taken by the US Navy and confirmed that the aerial Alex Dietrich was one who saw this specific incident happen. During a routine training off the coast of San Diego, she watched the object and then suddenly speed out of view. Alex: We noticed something in the water that seemed to be disturbing the water or making it churn. This white, oblong-shaped object that was moving very fast. We don't know what it was. It could have been a natural phenomenon. It could have been human activity. But the point was that it was weird, and we couldn't recognize it. Narrator: The video is now known as FLIR1. But Mick says what we're seeing What's actually happening there is that the camera was actually tracking this object the whole time. At the end of the video, the operator has switched through these different modes that the camera has just And so it stops tracking it. The most likely thing would be that it's some kind of a jet engine, and we're getting this illusion of motion from the operator moving You could say it's a UFO but it's probably just another plane. Narrator: Another video was taken on a training flight off the USS Theodore Roosevelt in 2015 near the coast of Florida. Mick has a similar which is known as Gimbal. You see these clouds kind of whizzing by. It doesn't mean they're This is just the parallax effect. It's the motion of your plane creating a kind of apparent Narrator: Parallax effect is what happens when you're looking out a car window and objects that are closer to you seem to be moving much faster Mick: But the interesting really comes later, when the And I think what's actually happening here is we're not seeing the but what we're seeing is the infrared glare and specifically a jet engine. And because the camera that just causes the glare to rotate. Narrator: This number shows that the camera starts off pointing 54 degrees to the left. As that number changes, it The moment it transitions the glare rotates, too. Mick: It will do it at about zero degrees. And that's what we see. Narrator: The third declassified video was also taken in 2015 by pilots training off along Florida's coast. An object seems to be moving The video is known as GoFast. Narrator: And Mick says it's when you break down its mathematics. The negative 22 degrees means the camera is pointing 22 degrees below horizontal. The 4.1 means the distance in And 25,000 is the altitude Mick: We can use all of that to find where is this object in space? It's just high school Here is a distance, and it's an angle, and it's this sine of the angle multiplied by the distance. Narrator: It turns out the object isn't actually down by the water, but rather halfway between It's also not moving very fast, just about the speed of the wind. Mick: What's the most likely thing? It's probably a weather balloon, which is a pretty boring explanation. Narrator: So if these videos actually have boring explanations, why hasn't the government said so? Mick: There's a wall of in the military. Not because they're trying but simply because it's to keep everything secret. Narrator: The Department that any investigation into these videos would remain classified &quot;to protect our people and to avoid revealing anything &quot;that may be useful to In November 2021, the DoD announced that a new group would be working to look into cases of It was a response to an that called for more funding and resources to assess these kinds of sightings, which could fall into Mick: The first one being things like birds and balloons. The second one being which is things like clouds or other types of optical and phenomena in the sky. And then this possible secret technology that the US military is testing, or perhaps SpaceX is testing Then there's possible And then they have a which I guess would but they never mention aliens. Narrator: Still, over half of Americans the Pew Research Center surveyed in 2021 believe that aliens have visited Earth, and they found ways of collecting In this online forum called UFO Stalker, sightings are mapped in real time, with over 5,000 recorded Some astronomers have voiced When a flat, cigar-shaped object zipped and tumbled through our Harvard professor Avi Loeb Its high speed and unique trajectory in and out of our solar system prove that it wasn't bound Perhaps it is artificially produced. And we should check whether it has any radio communication Narrator: A later study found that there were coming from it, leading it was likely a shard of rock But it was still the first time an object from another star system and it became known as 'Oumuamua, which is Hawaiian for scout or visitor from afar arriving first. TV reporter: Now here on this where some 30 saucers have been sighted and are still unexplained. Narrator: The thing is, that extraterrestrial life Mick: The big question really is, are they visiting Earth right now? And you know, secondary question is, have they visited in the past? I don't see the evidence yet. What would make something unambiguous would be perhaps much more clarity, much higher-resolution one from one angle and position, one from a different position, so you could triangulate where And once you can do that, then you can say 100% that this object was making this maneuver. That for me will be the gold standard of a genuinely interesting UFO video. Maybe aliens are visiting, but they're doing it very, very quietly, and they're not leaving So I'll believe it when I see it.