[narrator] Nikita Khrushchev. Stalinist and reformer. The Soviet head of state The counterpart of John F Kennedy who brought the world with the Berlin Wall and the Cuban Missile Crisis. Offensive military preparations... September 1959. In the middle of the Cold War, Soviet Premier and head flies to the USA. [archive] The President's He brought the whole family to show and did all the things As usual, Sergei Khrushchev taking along his camera. The family spends 12 days It was like discovering America. We read many things. We thought that America is the most And it was shock that it was not A journey to a new, unknown world. He danced with Shirley MacLaine And Rockefeller said, &quot;Look at you, If you came to America you know, before the revolution you would have been a great leader And Khrushchev said, &quot;Which trade unions? I'm a great leader [crowd cheers] Nikita Khrushchev is convinced and always prepared to argue the point. [speaks Russian] [translation] America has achieved a lot. But how long have you been around? 150 years of independence, We've been independent and in seven years we'll be at the same When we pass you, [audience laughs] He is dubbed Hurricane Nikita This was vintage Khrushchev. He was voluble, he was loud, he was angry... he was provocative. Nikita Khrushchev's outbursts He liked to play emotional, The same with Trump now. A game which will become very serious Americans have to treat us as equal. And we know that Americans Khrushchev started this policy of crisis. It was Suez crisis, it was two Berlin crises, and it is going higher, higher and higher with the Cuban missile crisis. The jovial Nikita Khrushchev As my grandmother used to say... very rarely, but she did say it She said the Khrushchev of 1962 was not the Khrushchev of 1956. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. I think the kiss of power, especially the But I think in Khrushchev's excuse, he came out of Stalin. I mean, he was Stalin's servant Nikita Khrushchev spends his last years Here he records his memoirs on tape. [speaking Russian] [Khrushchev tape translation] That was enough for a war. With that, we could have destroyed Chicago A very great danger for America. America had never been so close [narrator] The recordings without the knowledge of his successor. [Sergei Khrushchev] He wanted He told they want to restore the Stalinism which is very dangerous And he wanted to leave this information As it was dangerous I found him this German recorder. So I was most hated man at the time to the Brezhnev government and the KGB. [tape begins] [Khrushchev speaking Russian] [Khrushchev tape translation] I think it would be best to start [narrator] March 1953 in Moscow. My father was... came back to the home. It was some time about midnight. And he sit on this sofa, Stalin died. For me he was the leader. He was the father of the Soviet people, he may be not a god I was very sad that he died. For almost 30 years, Josef Stalin I think Khrushchev felt Stalin's death They had been for so long led by Stalin. The myth of Stalin had grown They had to be shocked. And part of that shock was probably But it was accompanied that they had survived and now they were safe. [translation] It was a huge relief &quot;Now that swine Stalin is dead.&quot; Now we can finally wind back that he constantly pushed onwards. Now we can construct socialism Who would succeed the dictator? Georgy Malenkov, Stalin's deputy? Chief of the Secret Police Or Nikita Khrushchev? I don't think he was on the list at all. I think he was such a useful person I mean, he was a hard worker and there is a great picture of them, Molotov, Mikoyan, Khrushchev, Stalin. And Khrushchev looks the least refined He has this ridiculous hat very short pants. And you could see that Nikita Khrushchev is born in 1894 in the border area He was peasant One time we went to see the place I know my uncle was there many times. There was a place where the hut was. And at the age of 16, he and his father went to Ukraine, it was so close, But Nikita Khrushchev will not In 1918 he joins the Communist Party. Khrushchev's education was minimal. He probably had no more than two years But when he was a young man he was already and I think he stood out among other He was so shrewd. He always admitted He was always telling my mother and When my little sister in fact, he called her to wish her a good because that was something She was six years old to be a great contributor He rises rapidly through the Party, from the provinces of the Ukraine My father was elected in the delegates In 1925, he travelled to Moscow. And he saw Stalin. [Khrushchev translation] We had been invited to Moscow, and we had our photograph taken with him. He was very amusing, We were incredibly pleased He quickly saw the light A few years later Khrushchev Via one of the other students [Taubman] When he was Khrushchev did indeed who, apparently, praised him to Stalin. Khrushchev, by that point, was the Party Khrushchev later would say A... dream come true. This lottery galvanizes his career. By 1933 he is already [Nina Khrushchev] and Khrushchev as a chief of Moscow you could see the adoration in his face. I mean, he just adores that great leader. He finally got a chance He also played a role, which helped him to rise. And the role was of a kind of Khrushchev was a simple man and he played that up. And I think that had the effect of... lulling Stalin's suspicions and vigilance. [applause] In Stalin's court everybody was suspicious But Khrushchev seemed to be safe. He was a safe choice. And I think that one of the things to play the fool so effectively was that, in some ways, he was a fool. And we learned later in life, when he becomes the Soviet leader, While Khrushchev is in charge, magnificent buildings are built. The metropolis gains a new face, all in honor of the dictator. But Nikita Khrushchev pays a high price The great purges started when my father was the Party Secretary it was under 1934. Of course, if you're part [Khrushchev recording plays] [Khrushchev translation] In those days and thrown into Stalin's prisons. But we had so much respect for him that we simply didn't dare At the same time, Is it all true? Were there valid reasons Was everything above board? But we were afraid to confront the truth, afraid to raise that curtain At the end of his life, Khrushchev said He had signed death warrants By the time the purges began, it was too late to try to back out [train whistles] [narrator] Millions of people murdered. In 1938 Nikita Khrushchev at the height of Stalin's purges. He told it was like Everything was empty. All these party committees were empty. Stalin's henchmen don't even spare Suddenly his assistants And he says, &quot;Well, I thought that and now I'm told that they were not.&quot; Especially under the Stalin regime, you find explanations that, &quot;Well maybe I'm wrong He continued to be loyal to Stalin and glad to be in Stalin's inner circle. [airplane engines whine] After the Hitler-Stalin Pact of 1939, Khrushchev is put in charge Over 100,000 people are arrested, tens of thousands murdered. Khrushchev never publicly regretted it. And I don't think even privately in the conquering of Western Ukraine. Of all the things that can be said this is one of the most damning because blood was shed June 1941, Nazi Germany Nikita Khrushchev serves at the front in the Great Patriotic War, He was a political commissar First in Kiev, then at Stalingrad, later in Kursk. He was central to the conduct of the war, which of course, At one point Stalin concluded along with the generals he fought with, of cowardice and of retreat. And at that point Stalin called him and Khrushchev says in his memoirs, that he felt, Khrushchev felt his life was hanging by a thread. But in this situation Stalin forgave him. Again, the fact that he was prevailed and Khrushchev survived. [newsreel announcer speaking Russian] [narrator] Khrushchev is in the Ukraine He permits the people to acclaim him for At the end of the 1940s, Josef Stalin The dictator is at the height It was very dangerous to discuss Stalin It was one hundred times more dangerous Even my father told me, &quot;Here, you see, If they would ring and they told you it is from Any words. Only answer 'I will find my father.'&quot; He was afraid. Now Khrushchev is among These were some of what we sometimes refer to These were the years when the old man, and even more suspicious, than he had been before. Stalin was very lonely person. And he had some group of the close... associated lieutenants. About five, six people who he invited... mostly every night. &quot;Invite&quot; is probably the wrong word, he would drag them and stuff them with food And these sessions would go on by which time they were drunk and fatigued and finally he would let them go. It was five, six lonely men, sitting each night at the same table, telling the same things, And sometimes, they... Stalin told &quot;let's dance&quot; and they danced, [Taubman] One of the reasons but another was his hope just in case [Sergei Khrushchev] Be really prepared for everything. You never know from where you go. You go home, do they send you [narrator] Stalin's death The dictator himself his fear of a possible rival And now Khrushchev's time has come. When Stalin died, he said about Lavrentiy Beria &quot;We have to do something, Lavrentiy Beria. The way of ruling of Beria was through the He personally did it. So my father tried to start the plot [narrators] Khrushchev does deals he has a plan. Now his ability to get on with everyone And in this plot, Khrushchev was the one to organize the conspiracy which eventuated in the arrest of Beria. Beria is executed, while other rivals Each successful leader becoming successful And he must be decisive, not be afraid to take responsibility. And to act in the correct time. And this is the difference The winner, the new master of the Kremlin, In 1956 Khrushchev holds the first I knew nothing about the Secret Speech, Because my father didn't share In a closed meeting, when there are no foreign guests Khrushchev denounces Stalin's crimes. For the first time somebody came out, We made mistakes, Khrushchev had the courage to denounce the man who had committed such horrors: a holocaust in the Soviet Union. He had the moral decency that remained to denounce him and to try The speech is a sensation. Now Stalin, the Father of Russia, [Sergei Khrushchev] My father told, because I believe that we building As he told, &quot;You cannot live in a paradise We have to expose Stalin's crimes He never separated himself And then, like it was in the church, if they forgive us, we will go forward. A fresh wind sweeps The focus of power is a cheerful with a plan for the future. He wants humanitarian socialism, believing in the superiority [Uhl translation] Khrushchev without which the Soviet Union would The most important thing he did You have to remember that the whole was constructed on the bones of peasants who were deprived of their rights; they were squeezed dry in order to raise the necessary funds This brutal exploitation of the workers Now for the first time they were able Families were given their own apartments. Before this, that would [applause] A fresh wind blows through at last, after the terror 1957, the Festival of International Youth. I mean, can you imagine all these and mingled with the Soviet people. I mean, that was never happening. That was an incredibly liberal moment. All the great theater of Russia because suddenly there was this variety The film had a remarkable renaissance because suddenly people could speak. There were incredible attempts the communist monolith in every area. And Khrushchev doesn't only open up He introduces a new concept Peaceful coexistence! His sincere policy was: But he believed that if we are we will be ahead of all other countries Khrushchev wants an easing of tensions, but he doesn't question the system itself. That's why he has the Hungarian Uprising not long after his Secret Speech. He advocates socialism around the world, tirelessly visiting every continent Khrushchev's avowed goal also in military terms. He believes that a balance of arms In the space race, the Soviet Union scores under Khrushchev, Yuri Gagarin becomes a hero of the nation. Khrushchev relishes the acclaim. He's the one who brings the Soviet Union in the second half of the 20th century. Although the country seemed when he came to power, it was really not equipped Only during Khrushchev's rule did the Soviet Union really become In 1958, Nikita Khrushchev issues an ultimatum He demands the withdrawal so it can become a free city, [Uhl translation] The crucial aim here The country has become a constant because it requires The East German head of state, Ulbricht, is very cunning in his dealings &quot;You have to give us everything we want, because we are the public face The whole world is watching us. This way you can show how successful And Khrushchev has simply become tired to this little Party Secretary He wants a permanent, stable solution [cheering] [narrator] Khrushchev and Ulbricht But the ultimatum sounds like [Taubman] One of the problems both at home and in his foreign policy, was that he didn't think them through. He began and hoped And the Berlin Crisis What Khrushchev wanted to do, what he felt he had been thwarted was to settle the European situation to guarantee the future of the communist states including East Germany. And he was trying And it turned out that Khrushchev He didn't realize that there would be Nevertheless, the White House hands President Eisenhower addresses the press. The President of the United States chairman of the council of ministers to pay an official visit Mr. Khrushchev has accepted with pleasure. The American journey begins. [Khrushchev translation] When we got out we were received In our country we welcome people There was nothing like that there. People seemed more curious than pleased. They were curious to see What good could our visit bring them? [Sergei Khrushchev] How the system worked there. He insisted to the Eisenhower to explain him why he don't want And Eisenhower told because And my father told, &quot;you are kidding. You can change the constitution. Americans The visit lasts 12 days: a charm offensive who has just shocked the entire world The climax for the popular press Khrushchev's son Sergei always present He was on the alert. He didn't understand why they show him the But it was fun. And he had the photograph And these movie stars paid big money Everybody wanted to go. Except one actor. It was Ronald Reagan. But of course there are also protests. This annoys Khrushchev, who isn't [speaking Russian] [translation] We should compare notes, so you can see how the people you call I won't try to persuade you; In the future we will live better than He was determined to be calm and collected but he lost his temper several times. And blew up, and threatened So, in that sense it was a spectacle. It was a triumph, I think, in his own mind because he had compelled the attention of At Camp David, a return visit to Moscow along with a four-power summit in Paris It was a great success for the Russians. It was an accolade showing By the time Khrushchev leaves Washington he believes he is now regarded Just six months later, on 1st May 1960, this American reconnaissance plane Soviet military discover Khrushchev feels betrayed [explosion] He has the pilot, Francis Gary Powers, [speaking Russian] [translation] I am completely shocked. Eisenhower was planning to visit us? I think you don't shit where you eat. Surely that's elementary. How can the President and then plan to come for lunch How am I supposed to show him hospitality? [Uhl translation] As the leader he wasn't being taken seriously. And he had no intention of swallowing Which meant he missed a huge opportunity. Because at that moment were prepared to go a considerable way towards accommodating him They would have withdrawn He could have booked this But he didn't succeed Shortly afterwards Khrushchev sets off Furious. They embark upon tough negotiations, with Khrushchev demanding a public apology At a legendary press conference Khrushchev condemns West German for booing him in response [translation] I would like to respond I have already been informed sent here the remnants, They came to the Soviet Union But then we spat them out, we steamrollered them So, ladies and gentlemen, But watch out! We didn't completely destroy you But if you carry on booing we'll hit back so hard [applause] Nikita Khrushchev storms out He wanted to open it up but then he had to answer and said, no, who are you to question me? I am the leader, I'm in the Kremlin, But I think in the middle of the Cold War when you see Khrushchev like that, New York, September 1960. Khrushchev comes to a meeting and he still hasn't He curses and yells [translation] I'd say you have some pretty fine friends. You're close friends with the Spaniard, He's the execution of his own people, destroying Parliament They called him &quot;Hurricane Nikita&quot; and they had to close the United Nations It was all a performance. I think he was, in this sense, Nobody can forget him taking off his shoe and then, although witnesses disagree [Taubman] I gave a talk in Washington. And there were a lot of veterans and when I raised the question one man raised his hand and said, &quot;I was there and I can tell you And another man raised his hand and said, &quot;I was there, I was six feet away. And a third person got up and said, &quot;'He held the shoe in his hand but the shoe never touched the table.&quot; In November 1960 John F. Kennedy. Will there finally be a new basis [Khrushchev tape translation] I'm a former miner who ended up because of the will of the Party He's a millionaire, the son of a We come from opposing classes He pursues the aim and I pursue the aim In June 1961 Khrushchev and Kennedy [Uhl translation] It was important To see what kind of man Kennedy really is. Is he really such a swine, A peaceful summit at least. The wives are present; When my father met with Kennedy and they told it is Americans had hundreds and thousands more Soviets have four missiles. And Kennedy told: My father told: I can destroy you once, Dawn breaks on 13th August 1961. The Berlin Wall appears overnight. The two sides came no closer negotiations were abandoned. So now Khrushchev acts. The wall, in an ironic way, helped to bring the Berlin Crisis Because until the wall was built, Khrushchev was pushing for some kind and when he didn't get the deal, Khrushchev said, &quot;If I don't build a wall, He understood that his only option He knew very clearly what the Americans if Allied access to West Berlin He knew very clearly that the USA if necessary with troops, and if it came The atmosphere in Berlin In October 1961 at Checkpoint Charlie face each other. A power game about passport checks. A few days later Khrushchev orders 4,000 times more powerful than the one [explosion] There was a Cold War on. What Khrushchev in effect was saying was: [explosion] It is the most powerful nuclear bomb In 1959 the young Fidel Castro and deposed the Cuban dictator. After the failed American invasion Castro asks Khrushchev for help. And in the summer of 1962 Khrushchev resolves and 60 medium-range missiles He imagined at first You have to picture the scene. They're sitting round a table, &quot;I've got a great idea! That way we kill two birds with one stone. The Americans will no longer intervene and we'll strengthen our military position The next few days are extremely tense. Naturally the USA realizes are being transferred to Cuba. So the Americans put their own forces The Kremlin is given a stern ultimatum The crisis committees meet, Cuba became to the Soviet Union the same Small, useless piece of land but if you not defend it So Khrushchev send their missiles [newsreel fanfare] On the 22nd of October 1962 [newsreel announcer] to explain to a trouble nation This sudden, clandestine decision for the first time outside of Soviet soil is a deliberately provocative which cannot be accepted by this country. My father didn't understand Because they never lived with enemies So for them it was a shock. &quot;We can be killed too.&quot; Kennedy orders a naval blockade of Cuba and the US Army takes up action stations. The world is just hours away Then, when it comes to the crunch, Because he knows very well what And the armed forces have already started transporting the nuclear warheads Khrushchev backs down and orders Catastrophe really was averted Kennedy and Khrushchev never met again. The hopes raised at the Vienna summit Soon afterwards Kennedy was assassinated and Khrushchev's reign came to an end. The irony is that the man who wanted in his attempt to ease the Cold War, helped to trigger two of the Cold War's in Berlin and Cuba. He did not want nuclear war. He did not want to use those weapons. He was trying the bluff and bluster and push and shove and get what he wanted. Khrushchev's sense of self-importance and his success too small. By 1964, when Khrushchev was ousted, he had alienated almost everyone The military was unhappy with him The Party leadership was unhappy with him and he had gotten very nasty He was practically alone. In the Politburo, the most powerful body opposition to Nikita Khrushchev In '64 they were beginning And they told me and I told my father and he told: &quot;Maybe or maybe not.&quot; ...and decided to do nothing. You can say that is just arrogance But at a deeper level it may have been and could not bring himself to leave and so was almost grateful, although would have never admit it He is removed. The new party leadership permits Khrushchev He tried not to comment Just because he knew the reach Nikita Khrushchev, once one of is silenced in public. You know that your relative And yet you live in a world Because there was such a great silence, it was like knowing that in a vacuum. I mean, you know it at home It's not discussable. [Sergei Khrushchev] It was painful, He thought that they try and even started to think [Khrushchev tape translation] No, no. I don't know what to call people who murdered his own people. Because it would mean encouraging those And it is possible, [narrator] The new leader in the Kremlin was a pupil of Khrushchev's, The fact that the transfer of power is no doubt a consequence He said that the greatest thing is that today I am ousted by mere voting. And it is true that if it weren't he would have gone to Gulag himself Nikita Khrushchev may have been a failure And yet putting an end to mass murder