Translator: Isabella Boux In 2013, I decided to meet my enemies. I was a 27-year-old, award-winning and a proud feminist. And I was determined of the men's rights movement. At that point, all I knew was from what I'd read online, that it's a misogynistic hate group Well, the vast majority was about women's issues. I directed documentaries single motherhood, and the need for more girls So when I learned that no one had ever in a film before, I saw it as an opportunity by exposing those preventing it. So for one year, I traveled North America meeting the leaders and followers I spent anywhere interviewing each individual also known as MRA, and I filmed 44 people total. And there is an important rule As an interviewer, you do not interrupt. So I'm asking questions, And in the moment, I didn't realize it, but now looking back I can see, that while I was conducting my interviews, I was hearing them speak, and I knew the cameras were recording, but in those moments I wasn't listening. What was I doing? I was anticipating. I was waiting to hear a sentence, or even just a couple that proved what I wanted to believe: that I had found the misogynist. The ground zero of the war on women. A couple of times, I thought I had it. There was one men's rights activist that said to me, &quot;Just walk outside and look around, everything you see was built by a man.&quot; Oh! That statement felt anti-women. I felt my jaw clench, but I sat quietly, while removing all the space (Laughter) After my year of filming, I was reviewing the 100 hours replaying and transcribing it, which believe me when I say no one will ever listen to you more You should write that down. (Laughter) So, I was typing out every word meticulously, and through that process, that my initial knee-jerk reactions weren't really warranted, and my feeling offended Was that statement about men having built the skyscrapers I thought, well, what would Maybe a feminist saying: Just look around, everyone you see was birthed by a woman. Wow! That's a powerful statement. And it's true. Is it anti-male? I don't think so. I think it's acknowledging our unique Well, luckily, while I was making The Red Pill movie, I kept a video diary which ended up and in looking back on the 37 diaries there was a common theme. I would often hear that a men's rights activist would make, but in my head, I would add on to their statements, assuming that's what they So here are two examples A men's rights activist, &quot;There are over 2,000 for women in the United States. But only one for men. Yet, multiple reputable studies show I would hear them say, &quot;We don't need 2,000 shelters for women. They're all lying about being abused. It's all a scam.&quot; But in looking back of men's rights activists and all the blogs they've written and the video live-streams they are not trying Not at all. All they're saying and they deserve care and compassion. Second example. A men's rights activist would say to me, &quot;Where is justice for the man and because of this accusation, he loses his college scholarship and is branded with the inescapable I would hear them say, &quot;A woman being raped isn't a big deal.&quot; It's as if I didn't hear the word All I heard was, &quot;He was accused of rape.&quot; Of course, rape is a big deal, and all the men's rights activists I met to have happened to anyone. I eventually realized what they are saying is they are trying to add who is standing up for the good-hearted, honorable man or worse yet, his children, because he is accused of something (Sighs) Well, I couldn't keep denying There are real issues. But in my effort to avoid agreeing I changed from putting words to acknowledging the issue So here are two examples A men's rights activist would say to me, &quot;Men are far more likely And I would counter: &quot;Well, because women are unfairly It's discrimination against women Yes. (Laughter) I am not proud of that. (Laughter) Second example. An MRA would say to me, &quot;Men are roughly 78% of all suicides And I would counter with: &quot;But women attempt suicide more often. So ha! (Laughter) Ha? It's not a contest. But I kept making it into one. Why couldn't I simply learn and have compassion for male victims without jumping at the opportunity Well, after years of researching what the men's rights activists there is no denying that there are that disproportionately Paternity fraud uniquely affects men. The United States Selective Service still uniquely affects men. Workplace deaths: disproportionately men. War deaths: overwhelmingly men. Suicide: overwhelmingly men. Sentencing disparity, life expectancy, child custody, child support, false rape allegations, misandry, failure launched, boys falling behind in education, homelessness, veterans issues, infant male genital mutilation, lack of parental choice lack of resources for male victims so many issues that are heartbreaking, if you are the victim or you love someone who is the victim These are men's issues. And most people can't name one because they think, &quot;Well, men have all their rights; But these issues They deserve care, attention, and motivation for solutions. Before making The Red Pill movie, and I thought I was well-versed But it wasn't until I met that I finally started of the gender equality equation. It doesn't mean I agree But I saw the immense value and trying to see the world I thought if I could get my audience it could serve as a rung on the ladder, bringing us all up about gender equality. So in October 2016, the film was released in theaters, and articles and critic reviews And that's when I experienced in group think around gender politics. And I learned a difficult lesson. When you start to humanize your enemy, you, in turn, may be dehumanized And that's what happened to me. Rather than debating the merit I became the target of a smear campaign, and people who had never seen the movie chanting that it was harmful to women. It certainly is not. But I understand their mindset. If I never made this movie, and I heard that there was about men's rights activists I too would have protested the screenings or at least sign the petitions because I was told I was told that men's rights activists But all the men's rights activists I met and are simply asking the question: &quot;Why doesn't our society Well, the greatest challenge I faced it wasn't the protests against my film, and it wasn't how I was treated even though it got The greatest challenge I faced was peeling back the layers It turns out I did meet It was my ego saying that I was right, and they were subhuman. It's no secret now that I no longer but I must clarify I am not anti-feminist, and I am not a men's rights activist. I still support women's rights, and I now care about men's rights as well. However, I believe if we want we need to invite all voices to the table. Yet, this is not what is happening. Men's groups are continually vilified, falsely referred to as hate groups, and their voices Do I think either movement No. Men's rights activists neither are feminists. But if one group is being silenced, that's a problem for all of us. If I could give advice to anyone we have to stop expecting to be offended, and we have to start truly, That would lead of ourselves and others, having compassion for one another, working together towards solutions because we all are in this together. And once we do that, But it has to start with listening. Thank you for listening. (Applause) (Cheering)