Joe 1: Hey smart people, Joe here. Joe 2: And here too. Joe 1: I'll explain the clone later, but we're that lets us watch the video along with you Joe 2: What am I looking at? When Joe 1: Now. You're looking at now. Everything Joe 2: What happened to then? Joe 1: We passed then. Joe 2: When? Joe 1: Just now. We're at now now. Joe 2: Go back to then. Joe 1: When? Joe 2: Now. Joe 1: I can't. Joe 2: Why? Joe 1: We missed it. Joe 2: When? Joe 1: Just now. Joe 2: When will then be now? Joe 1: Soon Joe 2: ARGGGHH Joe 1: When is now? [OPEN] When is now? "Now" for you, as you watch this you are at this moment. But that's different at some point in the past compared to your now. the past compared to you now, right? I made But I can't access your future. For Ok, maybe this is all semantics. We're right there in the room with you, surely "now", right? But what if I was on Proxima b? Proxima b is the nearest potentially habitable Earth. Let's pretend, for a moment, that capable of seeing me, in my little space What am I doing, right now, on Proxima Because of the speed and travel time of 4 years ago. Whatever you think is in your future. a black hole opened up and swallowed me and my The point is, and what I'm going to show you, and even neuroscience, the "now" you on where you are and what you are or aren't doing. commercial airplanes. These clocks flew twice Afterwards, the time they recorded was compared and the three sets of clocks no longer agreed. They did not malfunction. If you were sitting perfectly, they had all kept time correctly, but they no longer agreed on when was "now". And with Einstein's predictions of Now, general relativity deals with how clocks of gravitational fields. Closer to Earth's all processes, including clocks, are slower. altitude tick faster than clocks on Earth's But it's the predictions of special relativity also slows time, at least from the The clock that flew eastward, effectively ran more slowly. The clock that flew westward, ran faster. Or another way to look at that both of the other clocks are moving These differences were only on the scale they were measurable. Today, calculations using And it gets even weirder. Not only can two people might not be able to Imagine two observers: One in the center of a the train as it goes by. As the center of of lightning strike the train car in the front reach him at the same time, so he concludes obviously, right?! We know that the light from his eyes at the same speed: the speed of light. his perspective, the train is moving to meet The light from the front flash hits him before draw a very different conclusion from the person This happens because of one important rule: no the speed of light does NOT change. It is From the perspective of the person on the same distance from each end of the train. So if they can only conclude that the front Our two observers disagree about the order of simultaneous. Their nows don't match up. Whose interpretation is correct? Well, what is that they're both correct... in their own frames moving relative to one another, there can What we call relativity of simultaneity. perspective. This time, the passenger as the train passes his friend on the ground. the light from the flash reaches But our friend on the ground? From their up with the light from the flash, but on the other the train. From the perspective on the ground, Again, our two observers don't and they are both right, in If we are moving relative to each other, from where two events are simultaneous, and from my A &amp; B are not simultaneous. And if we can't agree But hopefully we can agree on Let's say you and I want to meet for tacos. I'd at 12 noon. I have to tell you where to be (taco a set of coordinates, not only in space, but also enough, you could show up at a different time than show up anywhere. We can only share our delicious Imagine it this way: Since most of us are stuck with just two coordinates. And we can watch as time. All of this together is "spacetime". (Now technically, there are three coordinates unfortunately that's a bit hard to illustrate We think of reality as one And if you and I exist in the same reality exist in the same moment in time. There must Our everyday experience tells us the in time is what's real. The past and future Sure, we can remember the past, and we can but we can't go to either of them. And whatever about the future, we're really just doing This way of thinking about the universe is called "presentism". That the And this way of thinking might be wrong. One of and the equations that describe them is that they they also work equally well a million years There's nothing in the laws of physics Those laws of physics also lead us to some weird universe right now, every particle, every bit I could predict what will happen next, GOD... sorry I drifted away for a I could also reconstruct everything moments are all connected through the laws of Imagine stepping outside of the universe, and all spaces. This is what some This view says that all moments are equally present moment except that you are experiencing everyday experience of time and space, but it So what is real? Physicist "All moments in time are real, but Speaking of understanding, to understand And we observe things using light. Imagine a flash of light in space. A second one light-second across, and every second after In two-dimensional space, our expanding tracing the shape of a cone This cone represents everything expanding into space at That means someone here could never see it. We Likewise, from any point, the mirror image how old and how far away, that could ever light and information advance outward in forming an ever enlarging circle throughout all and everywhen we can see in the past universe. everywhen we could ever communicate We can't interact with, or see, or ever even know are moments in time and space that may be real, or perhaps we should say... elsewhen. Moments If you're feeling a little disoriented right now, the universe, well don't worry, it gets weirder. How did I do that? When we see a ball, or anything, it takes 10 to reach the brain, and another 100 or more the basis of that information. During this time, brain's information about where the ball is will So how are we able to catch the ball? Well, will be? Maybe we use information from it's not quite that simple at all. As the ring moves, a white circle flashes. lags slightly behind the ring. But if the white circle is actually completely inside Why does our brain see this? Well, it fits with what we might expect. That our brain That we are "living in the past", and our brain's Psychologist David Eagleman set up a Everything leading up to and but what happens after the flash changes. or reverses. Again, everything leading up to the flash is were really using the past motion of the ring same result as the original experiment, our But that isn't what we see. of the flash depends on what happens in strange. It means the moment our brain calls You know, this is starting to sound like we're look at it is that there is physical time out and when something happens on each timeline Then some other stuff happens shortly after just after, and combine that with the event a "now" that doesn't exist in the real world. So in a very real way, we do live in the it's already happened. For experiences like our own "now" that is 80 to 100 ms in the past Why does this happen? Because the brain is that comes in. Different signals arrive at times, and they have to be decoded and before we can have a conscious experience. It seems like what we're seeing is now, but Only it's not in case someone says a bad word all the information from different senses and and our brain having to decide which bits of It feels like all of our senses are unified we feel and what we see are all in sync. And there's a really simple way to demonstrate at the same time. I feel those as simultaneous, many milliseconds longer to reach my brain than But your brain waits, and takes all these editor, it syncs them up and creates a conscious also means that tall people like me live Scientists once tested sprinters to or a flash of light would get them off the line so you would expect a flash works better. But they because auditory signals are processed But if that's the case, why does this (clap) work? The movement of my hands even though the hearing part of my brain gets In the early days of TV broadcasting, keep the sound and picture in sync. See, unlike and printed on the film strip, TV broadcasts used separate signals for sound and picture. And at least not perfectly. As long as the sound and of sync, people's brains made the correction for and picture have been out of sync for the last But if I walk away... at a certain distance... your That distance? Is about 100 feet, or at which the speed of light and the speed Here's another weirdness: Our eyes make small saccades. If you stand close to a mirror, and look someone watching you will see but you won't. You should try this, it's seriously jump from spot to spot, otherwise the world we never notice these gaps in time, because Your brain is not a clock that tracks time. Time is actively constructed by the brain. now is not a place, because time is not a map with way to measure change, and change can happen There's nothing in the laws of physics or even our The universe is a stranger place than most of us whenever it is, to learn a bit more about it.