When Cristiano Ronaldo exploded onto the scene in was a scrawny 18 year old with blond highlights He had a level of electricity that is maybe to this game. He was in no way the most complete resulting in his goal tally being practically reason behind this. For the past couple of years was a midfielder has been a topic of debate. It's his goal ratio has been compared to Lionel Now Ronaldo broke into Sporting's 1st dribbling. He contributed just a total of 5 but this version of him was not designed he played either out left or out right, in a and cross to Jardel who was the poacher. Of his one was a solo-goal, one was from outside the the back of the net. Not goals we typically see day where everyone knows everything about a young Portuguese winger who wasn't even a many players or fans. But that all changed when Sporting as part of their pursuit to sign Ronaldo. no one had even heard of Ronaldo, but by the he would terrorize the entirety of Manchester had speed. He had vision. He had unbelievable tormented Fabien. He performed astonishing tricks that's nothing.'" Sporting would win 3-1, but that was fixated on this kid... And just a week beating out Barcelona and Arsenal agreeing Now Sir Alex Ferguson's Manchester United played Nistelrooy as a lone striker, or van Nistlerooy In this tactical approach, Cristiano Ronaldo right winger, but not quite the "winger" we think start, he was a right footed right winger, which because quite simply, deploying wingers on the more effective in 95% of modern tactics. Secondly, more in the midfield line rather than in the or the player he replaced, David Beckham. They finished second, despite scoring 14, 14, and 8 ballon d'or that year, would still make it into them were so-called "traditional wingers" or "wide job was to move the ball from the midfield third beat their man to the byline and cross it themselves. With that being said, don't think that central midfielder who could orchestrate the game, and the reason he was in TOTY was of course was signed. He averaged 4.41 dribbles per 22/23 Premier League, it would earn him a very So yes, Cristiano played as a wide right and he would continue to play there in 04/05 increase, but not too anywhere near elite levels. dribbles per game in those 2 seasons, almost receiving criticism for his lack of end product, the box. He would over dribble there, and when he and his crosses were inaccurate. The media labeled doing stepovers than actually being prolific. He due to his generational ability at one attribute, live up to being the david beckham replacement... show as Man Utd's Golden Boy over Cristiano. fallout with Ferguson, Ruud van Nistlerooy would world cup, Ronaldo got Wayne Rooney sent off, and winked at the Portuguese bench. Overnight, he playing for the biggest club in the country. publicly that "The circumstances are not right to will decide where to go", and that was it, he was smoothed things over and he was willing to play he promised ronaldo something along the lines As the season kicked off, with the media still transformed into the best footballer in the world. his shooting had increased massively, his decision he was a physical beast. He had moved further up to Ronaldo getting far more positional freedom and in a 4-4-2, it would be far from the truth to but still had defensive duties and he played with Rooney, Saha, and Giggs. Still far from the but much more advanced on the pitch. This was the 23 goals, and dish out 14 assists, winning a second place finish in the ballon d'or, and footballer in the world lived in Manchester. midfielder Ronaldo. By 07/08, despite still calling him that would be absurd. SAF as Ronaldo now defended as a striker. Manchester Rooney, and Ronaldo, where he'd start as a attack could end up on the left or up top. as he was still primarily a right footed right high output... like in the low 20s... not um... 42. To a midfielder, from 02/03 to 05/06, a wide and a wide forward from 07/08 - so his fans are certainly stretching when they continue to change positions during his future Ronaldo's club goal ratio all time is 727 goals we take away his years as a midfielder +06/07, it his prime years 07/08-17/18, his ratio was 518 being said, if you take Messi's best stretch of 11 although Ronaldo's other argument could be that which is still further from the net to Messi's winger role. So if you just take Ronaldo's best stretch of 9 years, Ronaldo trumps with goals in 473, a 1.01 ratio. check out that one on screen , I'm sure