Afternoon in October 2024. Morning when I couldn't get up easily. For now, I'll grab the vacuum cleaner, and try to make up for the day in a hurry. When I open the window, the cool air feels so comfortable, Since there was a rain symbol on the forecast for the weekend and beyond, I was wondering what would happen if I froze yogurt and chocolate sauce. I heard that if a frying pan gets stuck, It seems to work. I'm going to try a new sandwich for brunch. A combination of grilled cheese and sandwiches, two of my favorite things. The red color of hibiscus tea, I'm all set to enjoy teatime! I'm trying to make it look like a snowflake. The colors came out beautifully. I'm going to try dissolving the candy in the tea. The fresh apple and the sweet candy smell really good! I read manga and got through my book and lazed around. When I went shopping in the evening, 100ml water, 2 tablespoons white dashi, 1 tablespoon noodle soup stock, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 2 teaspoons sugar, salted kelp, chili pepper. I'll gather up the odd bits of vegetables and make some lightly pickled vegetables. On a small cutting board, so that it doesn't spill out. onion, pickles, boiled egg, salt and pepper, lemon juice, mayonnaise. I heard that it tastes good if you use snack instead of breadcrumbs. 2 teaspoons sake, a pinch of salt, salted kelp, sweet potato. Salmon Kaki-no-tane cutlets are cooked at 200 for 20 minutes. 1 tablespoon of potato starch and 1 tablespoon of water. 2 cups chicken stock, 2 tablespoons soy sauce, 1 1/2 tablespoons oyster sauce, 2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine. After frying in oil, pour in the sauce. Mix in the potato starch and sesame oil. I'll have it with a cup of warm oolong tea. I can't believe something so delicious can be made with just two ingredients! The crunchy, savory flavor of the snack went really well with the sweet potato rice. Harumi Kurihara's recipes always impress me when I make them. Opening the window and sitting here is my latest blissful moment. I woke up slowly again today. Soak in salt water for about an hour to make it soft. 1 tablespoon of white wine and 150ml of water. 200ml milk. potato starch. Salt, grated cheese, paprika powder. Mayonnaise, Sriracha sauce, lemon juice. Mushroom Cappuccino Soup. A soup with a gentle flavor that makes you keep spooning it up. It didn't turn out like the sample, but... I've come to the farmers' market, which is held on Saturdays and Sundays. There are lots of seasonal vegetables. I stopped by the card shop recommended in the comments. TAMBURINS I got a hand cream as a gift from a friend and it was really good, so I came to the store to buy some more. I was confused by the scent, so I used my right and left hands to consider it. I chose the same scent as the hand cream. For everyday use and for when I want to be especially pampered. The cutting board I had sent out for repair had arrived. The nice smell of wood is spreading. A note was enclosed stating that it can be refinished two more times. I found Manchurian wild rice stem at the farmers' market, and decided on today's menu straight away. 155g of cake flour, 45g of strong flour. 2g of yeast, 3g of salt, 40g of sugar, 5g of sesame oil, 45g of milk, 65g of water I set it in pizza dough mode. For 400 yen, there were lots of different herbs and vegetables in it! I wanted to try the Manchurian wild rice stem, I've never seen it before! A little beaten egg, soy sauce, pepper, sake and potato starch. Soak the grated cucumber in hot water, and then in ice water for 15 minutes. 1 tablespoon of ginger, 1 tablespoon of hot pepper paste, 1 tablespoon of white sauce, 1 tablespoon of honey, powdered red pepper. I'm going to make Korean cucumber kimchi using whole mini cucumbers! sesame oil When I touch something soft, I feel like I become gentle. Ferment for 30 minutes at 35. 2 tablespoons chicken stock, 2 teaspoons potato starch dissolved in water. 2 teaspoons soy sauce, 2 teaspoons Chinese rice wine. I was very satisfied with the way the steamed flower bun turned out, and it was a great way to end the holiday! Thank you for watching until the end.