- You know what I don't understand, Andy? Why do they call it the MacBook Air? It's not like it was a mistake. Get it, error? MacBook Error? - [Andy] Okay. - It's been one of their most They should call it the MacBook Success. - [Andy] Or MacBook Correct. - Yeah, MacBook Correct. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Apple Silicon MacBook Air. And it's been a couple hours since I unboxed the and already Anthony has been our Linus Tech Tips review, and he says, and I quote, &quot;Impressions so far are pretty good.&quot; That is a good sign. Now, of course, what we don't know yet is if the MacBook Air, or power reasons or any other reason, might be a little bit lesser But we are certainly going to ladies and gentlemen. It's available in pretty much exactly the same configurations So we went for the 8-core CPU, 8-core GPU. - [Andy] The base model - Oh, it's 7-core, isn't it? - [Andy] Yeah. - So sorry, there is a base 16 gigs of RAM, so you can not 32 because the whole into one tight little package. We've got 512 gigs of storage, and, of course, a US keyboard layout. This is it. It's a 13.3-inch display. Hold on. Let's have a look at what else is in here. We've got a Type-C to all nice environmentally-friendly Hey, look at that. We still get a power adapter. Hey, even this is mostly paper. Very nice. They don't wrap all the There's one little plastic more of a sticker than a plastic. That is awesome. - Yeah, it's a charger, man. What a concept. How many Apple logo I only got one with the- - [Andy] iPhone. Hey, there you go. You buy the MacBook, you get two. See, me, I don't think that on their devices. So I'ma go ahead, I'ma fix that for them. Okay, here we go. There we go. - [Andy] Sure. are they going to hire me I'm a professional It's official. - [Automated Voice] Press Command+F5 now to turn it on and set up your Mac. - [Linus] Triple-click, Touch ID. - [Automated Voice] To to set up your Mac. - [Automated Male Voice] - [Andy] Why does this thing take so long? - [Automated Male Voice] Use the- - Why am I? Wait, what? Okay, whatever, I'm Canadian. One of the things I'm about the Apple Silicon Macs is how unremarkable the experience is the majority of the time. I had really hoped that Apple with the first Apple Silicon devices, like really change up the but it kind of makes sense with something more conservative because that way they'll know, &quot;Okay, how are customers receiving this whole Apple Silicon concept, versus how are Apples or something along those lines. Touch, just bring it back to the phones. Just bring it back to the phones. We all want it back on the phones. Andy, do you want it back on the phones? - [Andy] Oh, yeah. - Yeah, me too. - Or the logo at the back. It doesn't even matter, just somewhere. You know what drives me crazy? Every freaking Apple device of their setup process. And you can see what without True Tone. You can't disable it. I always have to go manually I don't like True Tone. We're so close to a That's one of the biggest for me to daily drive these things is I've gotten very accustomed on my laptop. And the iPad Pro is almost there, but it's running iOS, or iPad OS, excuse me. And now the MacBook Air is almost there. It's got the keyboard, It's got the beautiful screen but it doesn't have the touchscreen. They make two devices. And if I could just smoosh them into one, could actually be extremely compelling. Like what are they quoting? Something like 18 hours of battery life while playing back video on this thing? - [Jono] Yup. - Flipping crazy. Honestly, Andy, I'll tell you, one of the most interesting on the new Apple Silicon MacBooks is that maybe it actually doesn't matter what the performance is or legacy developer tool Y. Maybe it doesn't matter at all because the vast majority of people just use their laptops pretty which is why Chromebooks exist. And if you did everything there is absolutely no couldn't provide a perfectly Andy, can you help me with this? - [Andy] Mm-hmm. - [Linus] How do I make this full screen without making it - [Andy] Press Option. And then press the green button. (upbeat music) - Why is that not the Why wouldn't it be Option, I can't see- - [Andy] So you can use - I don't know. Maybe that's just a personal discomfort, not being able to see the I just, I can't, I can't do it. It makes me really uncomfortable. Here we go. A little bit of chug there. Honestly, that's not bad for Let's be realistic. Now this is a pretty light 3D application. But what I like about it is I would say that pop-in looks from a thin and light class notebook. It's not amazing. It's not like, &quot;Oh, wow. I can't believe it. I've never seen anything but it's not bad. It's fine. Using significant energy in Safari. I wish you could just set It would last so much longer. You know how I mentioned, their computers like a Chromebook. Honestly, for my laptop, I hardly ever touch anything I actually am one of those. I'm trying to imagine an I mean, something like OBS, I'll use my laptop for capture sometimes. Actually, that's something if I could do with this. Oh my god, this installation Why do I have to drag the thing? - [Andy] No, it's so simple. - Why do I have to do that? - [Andy] It's so simple. - I already clicked on it. This is just unnecessary. - [Andy] It's like, after You don't have to click - Okay, yeah, sure, that's fair. But compared to something like Ninite, where you have an unintended you just double-click it, it's completely installed. What is this? Why have this at all? You're right. - You're right, there are aspects of it that are more painless than but this is also just and we could just not have it. Who's this video brought to you by? This video is brought to you by Manscaped. Manscaped hooked us up with their new performance package kit, which comes with a ton of stuff. Their new Lawn Mower waterproof trimmer with advanced skin-safe technology, which helps reduce nicks and cuts. Their Crop Preserver ball deodorant, their Weed Whacker nose and their new Shears 2.0 luxury nail kit. Just go to manscapes.com/circuit plus free international shipping. Plus, you'll get their Shed travel bag and a pair of their available for a limited time. So here's something that I Video, so let's change Let's try x264 for our encoder and then some reasonable Normally, we would go that we're planning to But I just want to see. I mean, we're running like Sort of. No properties available. Well, oh, here we go. This is another system preference thing. It was just in the background. Okay, okay, let's try this again. Whoo. OBS. Hey, there it is, just like that. Okay, start recording. Nice, we've even got a CPU usage monitor doodadamajig down here. So what are we sitting at? Now, what I wonder is, does that mean 45% of the or does that mean 45% of How is that divided up? Very interesting. Where are these recording to, I wonder? 30 megabit. Oh yeah, right, we're Of course it looks fine. Does that mean 45% of- the four high-performance cores? Or does that mean 45% of That's really good for just a dumb array Where is it even? Interesting. I don't know. I'll find it later. It's not terribly but both the microphone right out of the box. But then we already knew that. Man, the recent MacBooks - [Andy] The newer MacBook Air has slightly better brightness compared to the last gen. - Oh yeah, that's right. I think, what is it? 400 nit, something like that? - [Andy] 400 nits versus like 350. - Yep, 400 nit brightness, by any stretch of the imagination. But, who knows? As this Apple Silicon continues to evolve, we might gain more power savings there that can then be allocated or, better yet, a nice and we'll finally get good HDR on mobile. Well, that's pretty much it So far, I mean, it's seamless. Even something as what I as some rando open-source just worked. I'll leave it to Andy to, or, Andy, I'll leave it to Anthony to try out some more really random stuff though. Make sure you're subscribed And, of course, make to Linus Tech Tips for the full review of this device.