In the past couple hundred years, we've As far back as the 1830s, when Poland rebelled You had the famous October Socialist revolution you use the Gregorian calendar. You then have the creation of the Weimar Republic recently we had the 1989 Velvet revolution the same month that the Berlin Wall fell. But I'm here to talk about November of 1974. The United States is coming to terms with months prior. The midterm elections of 1974, under Gerald Democrats stole an astonishing 49 seats, securing to override Ford's presidential veto powers. In the nearly 50 years since it remains the party. But no one calls this the November Revolution That name belongs to a decidedly non-political Physics is about to experience a coincidence unlikely to see anything like it ever again. By this point most of the physics community three things. A dense nucleus of protons and neutrons, surrounded And all the observable matter in the universe But by the 1960s, there were those who suspected the subatomic. An even smaller set of particles that made Quarks, as they were called, supposedly came And despite some experimental evidence in for debate whether quarks were actual physical that helped to resolve some of the weirdness Sure, they fixed a few problems here or there, what was a huge whole in the jigsaw puzzle. But this attitude would change thanks to an Burton Richter was leading a team at Stanford, A tunnel loop 80 meters in diameter known This is a very expensive tunnel in which electrons together at high speeds in the hope that they'll As is typical in physics when a breakthrough be broken, because they weren't even looking And yet there it was, flashing into existence of 3 billion electron volts. This wasn't evidence of the up, down or This was something new. This was a 4th quark. Specifically, a 4th quark appearing in tandem annihilate each other. Now a 4th quark had been proposed before, If this was truly the 4th quark, charm as They had just found the missing jigsaw piece. Richter had wanted to name the hybrid particle it, but his coworkers didn't like that name. So instead, he asked a Greek colleague which Iota was free, but he opted against it since felt counterintuitive to the magnitude of So in the end he settled on Psi. Later they would observe the path that the A spark chamber is a stack of high voltage When a high energy particle passes through sparks. And somehow, the spark trail was the exact Now, this fact on its own, is crazy. That a particle was named, and very soon after, But this wasn't the coincidence I mentioned That exact same month, on the opposite side Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island. Leading the team was Samuel Ting, and with AGS, they had stumbled onto the exact same Ting called the particle J. As the story he similar to the Chinese character in his own Other stories behind the name have cropped But if I had to choose a personal favourite his daughter's name. On the 11th of November, Ting flew to Stanford cross paths with Richter. When both men excitedly told the other about there were talking about the same thing. Later that day they jointly announced the It's astounding that such an important discovery period of time. For this reason J/Psi is the only subatomic names. But we don't call it the November Revolution We call it that because it pointed the whole a decade of discoveries. That same year, Jean Iliopoulos would compile ever edition of the standard model of physics. At this point it's a jigsaw puzzle still And you know how jigsaws are. Even if a piece is missing you can still kind Maybe you recognize some of the names here: the matter particles. The top half is the family of quarks, note own, only in larger combinations called hadrons. Only three years after the discovery of charm, quark was found. This new one was named the bottom quark. What this suggested was that a sixth partner And thus the search for the massive, but elusive, Gotta tell ya, this is one hell of a naming On the other side here we have the leptons. Unlike quarks you can actually find these They consist of the electron, who you may Less well known are its big sibling the muon, bigger sibling, tau. Each of these three have their own corresponding One of them is still just implied, but we're Moving on inward we have another class of If fermions make up matter because they're forces...I don't have a mnemonic for this The photon you've probably heard of, it's You can thank Einstein for that one. At the tail end of the 1970s the gluon had for gluing together quarks to make protons The other two here are still missing in action. You have the W and Z bosons, which supposedly Their existence was so certain though, that won a Nobel prize. And that's about all there is to it! Well, no, not *technically*. There were those who proposed another boson, together in a field, and this field would At this point it was not so widely accepted, much later. So, as the 1970s gave way the 1980s, this of particle physics. But something was becoming clear. To make further progress, and find those missing first. The heavier the particle, the higher the energy They needed bigger accelerators. And thus 14 years after their first joint would be reunited. Not for the first time, they had after all back. And yet, despite the prestige of the Nobel A few feet away from them, the announcement scientific undertaking in United States history. It would be the particle physics equivalent Their mission, was to find the holy grail And Ronald Reagan was all in. &quot;Outer space used to be called the final frontier. But today we've begun to tap another frontier: hold out infinite possibilities. I know that some people may question the practical collider. But the truth is, the practical applications way we live. In the face of ever increasing global competition, edge in science and technology, and building a visible symbol of our nation's determination &quot; Within 5 years the project will have completely And with it, American leadership in the realm Burton Richter would go on to call the project failures". I'm warning you now. This story has a lot of things. What it doesn't have, is a happy ending. This was a failure so big, so massive in its Instead, I think it's better if I let you If I gave you a rock, and asked you to describe access to fancy tools, what would you do? Personally, I'd throw it at the ground repeatedly At some point humans realized that the best is to smash it open. And if it's a rock or an apple, our hands But if we wanted to break apart something We're gonna need some specialized gear. Hence, particle accelerators. A particle accelerator, but more specifically, 1. A tunnel system. Generally a circular loop, that is held at zero. This is what the particles will be travelling 2. A set of ultra-strong magnets. These serve two purposes. Most of the ring is surrounded by equally the charged particles around the ring. Additionally, you have a specific region where once every loop. Like a booster in Mario Kart. After thousands of loops per second, the particles And finally 3. The collision zone, this region usually contains of gigabytes of data per second. Think blood splatter analysis, only real. Modern accelerators are typically built in With linear injecting segments, multiple booster Like the incremental stages of a rocket. But by and large, accelerators are just big to get really really tiny bullets to ram into Why? Because collisions release a ton of energy, iconic equation: E = mc^2. So, if you want to generate heavier quarks, And for the past two decades, one nation has comes to building accelerators. Throughout the 60s and 70s, 5 quarks and 2 The fruits of the November Revolution. At the turn of the 1980s, the US was operating You had SLAC, over in California where we in New York with our buddy Ting, as well as But the newest and shiniest, was the crown the Tevatron, located at Fermilab in the outskirts The Tevatron name is an amalgamation of two TeV is short for tera-electron volts, or a That's the approximate collision energy And the other half, tron, because it's funny the suffix tron. With a loop diameter of 2 km and state of was the worlds first collider to break the That was the true final frontier. As the standard model began to get filled to take shape. That meant the top quark, the W and Z bosons, The United States, and its highly decorated to plant down that flag. Bring home that W. in the rest of the world. In Western Europe you had CERN, straddling Germany. The Soviet Union had two accelerators all And finally, the rookies on the scene, you (I swear that is the actual name). You may have noticed here, that the US has And for a while that was a major strength But as the 1980s rolled around, this was turning See, the US budget for particle physics had size, age, and capabilities. To keep each of them competitive would require the slim budget even slimmer. The fear was that Europe's consolidation take the lead. CERN was already digging a tunnel for its collider, or LEP. With a diameter of 8.6 km, it would be by 2 km look quaint. To maintain their competitive edge, US physicists Instead of 4 small labs competing for funding, All the eggs in one basket. Throughout the 70s there were conferences VBA. Or, very-big-accelerator. That name was coined by Leon Lederman, then the team that had discovered the bottom quark. Generally considered the godfather of this the project's biggest cheerleader in the But concrete plans wouldn't materialize Lederman again led the charge, calling for be able to support energies as high as 40 This was an absurdly high energy and a massive require an enormous location to build it. Something flat and empty. The hypothetical machine was therefore nicknamed A year later in 1983, CERN announced the discovery There were no buts about it, Europe had taken With the pressure mounting even further, a and the American project got its official The SSC, or: The Superconducting Super collider. A machine so grand and ostentatious, its name Rough estimates pegged the cost of such a going by 2021 US dollars. Now look, I get that 1 billion is a big number, a reference frame. So I've assembled a few comparisons. The taller the height, the more expensive We have the most expensive skyscraper ever The most expensive stadium ever built, at And also the most expensive bridge at $7.5 For a little mobile flavour the most expensive and the most expensive ship ever built was For some scientific comparisons we have the Human Genome project at $5 billion, GPS satellites in at a hefty $13.5 billion. What about one of the largest American engineering $19.7 billion. So overall, I don't think we're doing not unlock the secrets of the universe. But still, there was only one way they were The American taxpayer. And to be clear, each of America's previous But each of these had a comparatively baby Look at em! Little baby machines. Don't get me wrong, that's nothing to But when it comes to taxpayer funded projects, that starts with an 'm' vs a price tag Not only that, these 4 colliders were built far more sympathetic to the whims of physicists. How do I put this...? Ever since they dropped the bomb on Hiroshima, of Europe to become one of two global superpowers. And, again, partially thanks to that very area: Nuclear physics. Since world war 2, nuclear and particle physicists not afforded to other subfields in physics. With the successful completion of the Manhattan billion in today's money, it seemed only any future research into nuclear weapons...I That led to the creation of the Atomic Energy It was a confidential agency that had the eye, only having to answer to the Congressional were always held behind closed doors. For the most part, nuclear physicists were reactors and colliders on the pretense that And particle physicists fell into two camps On the one hand you had the war hawks, people championed the defense applications of nuclear the money they were showered with. And on the other hand, you had the physicists of mass destruction things, but were willing the funding they required for their real passions. It's how the sausage got made, and no one But this age of scientific free reign was The anti-war and anti-nuclear movement of It neglected radiation protections, reactor it came to environmental pollution. Congress was so fed up with the lack of oversight The 1970s as a whole were a time of dramatic It had been rocked by the Watergate scandal, and electronics industries was waning, leading This, combined with unrest in the Middle-East and a massive recession. In response to this, President Jimmy Carter of Energy, the DOE. The DOE was organized to manage and fund research renewables, synthetic fuels, etc. Additionally, all nuclear responsibilities, the newly created department. No longer would their funding be automatically the whims of congress and the *public* subcommittee The age of the nuclear physicists always getting They'd have to compete for funding like So as a first tentative step, the DOE approved But if the SSC was going to turn that 'm', in Washington on board. They had to make a deal with the devil. The SSC only got off the ground due to an There had never before been a scientific project cost. Unlike previous American accelerators funded the first to cross the billion dollar threshold. In fact it was projected to cross it a dozen And as a consequence, it was not going to public scrutiny. In particular, it needed the stamp of approval There are two Ronald Reagan quotes often associated a cabinet meeting on January 29th of 1987. At the end, when Reagan finally gave his approval would make "a lot of physicists ecstatic." His reply was "That's probably fair, because very miserable". But the other quote gives a little more insight Following a presentation on the merits of out an index card from his jacket pocket, "I would rather be ashes than dust." This continued for about a minute. In a moment that is very on-brand for late-stage what he was trying to say. Reagan would clarify with a different quote, announcer. He was telling physicists to "throw deep". It was time for a Hail Mary. It may be surprising to you that Ronald Reagan a multi-billion dollar project that is incredibly or strategic benefits. But I think the line "throw deep" perfectly of cold war posturing. It took nearly 6 years of delicate political alike to get Reagan to throw deep with the It was like playing political whack-a-mole, in Washington, they'd either retire or get wasn't a fan of the project. But eventually, they'd managed to sway several First was George Keyworth, a nuclear physicist Eventually he was joined by Alvin Trivelpiece, He did a lot of leg-work to eventually get of Energy. And Herrington was finally high enough up fateful cabinet meeting, where Trivelpiece All of this is especially remarkable, given one of his first acts was to try and shut During his presidential campaign Reagan had The department was the exact kind of red-tape, his politics. As soon as he took office Reagan slashed programs department. He cut all funding to all the renewable energy In a particularly spiteful and performative installed on the White House roof. You can see just how little Reagan cared about to run it. Throughout Reagan's 8 years in office he of whom was uniquely unqualified. His first pick was a dentist-turned politician. His next choice, Donald Hodel was closer, And yet he's most remembered for his proposed was not to try and fix it, but rather suggesting His final Secretary was John Herrington, a Now, hindsight has painted Reagan as anti-science. But I think this is a misconception. Reagan could be pro science. After some small cuts in his first year in for federal research &amp; development grew by But of course...this came with a big fat asterisk. Reagan was funding a very specific type of As you might be aware, the Department of Energy with completely gutting it. And it's likely because once he took office, The DOE handles the country's nukes. So of course, under Reagan, while almost everything the nuclear weapons programs received massive But let's visualize this in another way. You see those mountains back there? Well, they aren't actually mountains, they're Now obviously this is on a different vertical If I put them on the same scale everything It's mostly for the aesthetic, but also to of the US government. The Reagan bump, or Mount Gipper as I like the administrations that came immediately Reagan oversaw the largest peacetime buildup Reagan was intent on winning the cold war, in every area they could. And while most of this new funding was going amount of it was going towards creating a Before Reagan, if you broke down all R&amp;D funding comes in at just 47%. Under Reagan those digits just straight up Three quarters of all R&amp;D funding was now Take it from Reagan's science advisor, George and those most necessary to the economy or higher level than areas that are dormant". Thankfully, for particle physicists, there One of the 'exciting' areas Keyworth was Z bosons over in Europe. Despite Reagan's priorities being defense, had the responsibility to fund basic research, Recognizing that even though there were no line the research would prove to be essential. For that reason, and the influence of Alvin research rose by 80% under Reagan. If a few Americans could win some Nobel prizes, Other fields of science were not so lucky, the teacher's pet of the US government. Less flashy areas such as condensed matter budgets stagnate due to inflation, or in the In the eyes of the Reagan admin they were be the responsibility of private industry, And of course, you can't discuss Reagan callous indifference to the AIDS crisis, which After years of protests and criticism from Reagan would reluctantly appoint a commission Of course, in a very Reagan move, he selected the committee. Once top dog of the navy, his appointment by Watkins himself. He was after all, a devout Catholic who supported Despite what you might expect, Watkins took in funding for research, improved sexual health who considered the disease an act of god. In his commission report he would go on to suffering from AIDS. The commission report passed by a slim vote Reagan would go on to ignore most of the suggestions Although he didn't say so publicly, behind and depressed. But there was only one thing that Reagan loved Space. Throughout the 80s, NASA's budget was either But in actuality, Reagan was pumping plenty It was just going to a different department. The department of defense. See NASA is explicitly for non-military space Military space funding simply falls under and its space division far outpaced the budget When it came to space projects, Reagan had that hemorrhaged money, and never saw the For example, during Reagan's 1984 state free and freedom 25 times, he announced that named Space Station Freedom. This bloated project was intended to be a lab until the Department of Defense began point, carry out national security work on of any of the other nations sharing the station. Indeed, any partner nations would not be allowed of US leadership". Would it surprise you that other nations were Ultimately the bloated plan was never able redesigns and scale-backs, before ultimately Another of these pipe-dreams was the so-called that could take off and land at regular airports, space. After spending around $3 billion, the project considered unworkable. But of all of Reagan's failed cold war babies, outer space, laser-based missile defense system It never saw the light of day because it relied been invented yet. It still, hasn't been invented yet! The missile defense system was pure science idea that his obsession killed the 1986 nuclear Ronnie loved his sci-fi space laser so much the effective end of the cold war. Throughout its life-cycle Star Wars wasted scrapped completely. But to hear it from Reagan's top generals, wastes of time. See, these lofty science fiction projects so long as the USSR thought they were even to sink billions of dollars they didn't hopefully one day bankrupting them. And to a certain extent, money troubles did But on the other hand, this relentless defense follow the US into the next two administrations. So with all this context, it should be obvious SSC. George Keyworth knew that Reagan had a personal and ambitious, and thus worked hard to pitch Star Wars. But whereas those projects helped probe the the opposite end of the spectrum: Inner space. And when I use the term frontier, that's specific language used by many physicists American dominance. To give you a sense of how the government that the SSC would be the high energy physics And in a lot of ways the SSC truly was like For one, the US did not win the space race, They were beaten by the Soviet Union to every It was only by choosing a grand and ostentatious US able to move the goalposts, and reshape This was an approach typical of US government Bold big advancements, where they would leapfrog And whereas they competed with the Soviet the realm of particle physics was Western American projects aimed for the stars, designing of the slower, less ambitious and meticulously Europe's accelerators were far more likely process meant that throughout the 60s and breakthroughs. The SSC was very much following this template, and size. But it was also very risky, years of R&amp;D would with stable geology that could handle years It was a massive gamble, but it was the kind In 1987, in a last ditch effort, the director of congress, and argued that the US should They were in the early stages of construction He argued that there was significant overlap Even better, they were specifically making to upgrade it 10 years down the line, to an be available. But despite this open invitation, or maybe forward. America would regain its dominance in particle Now, there were concerns within the academic symbol of American Supremacy could deter other However, most seemed to understand the reality get the Reagan admin on board. This will absolutely not come back to haunt At all. Meet Maury Tigner. Maury has been toiling away in the background When the DOE approved an initial research to lead the planning team out of Berkeley He was widely viewed among the community as design, having been responsible for Cornell's The DOE was impressed with Tigner's efficiency loyalty in his team. He worked hard and his team respected him. And in a field with so many conflicted voices, to become the full-time leader of the R&amp;D. With the plan laid out, the DOE allocated amount that congress didn't have to be consulted. Like I mentioned previously, accelerators A tunnel system, thousands of ultra strong The detectors thankfully could come much later The key criteria that needed to be figured to be, and B. How were they going to make Collider performance is really a three-way magnet strength. Ideally we'd make the loop as small as we is incredibly expensive. But at the same time, if we want a smaller aren't cheap either. And these weren't just any magnets, they Niobium-Titanium magnets, which meant that need to be held at temperatures barely above If they rise in temperature too much, just quench and lose their superconductivity. This is usually followed by a rapid surge cause an explosion. For all these reasons, each magnet would likely and they'd need nearly around 8000 of them. So to summarize: If you lock-in max energy collider is really the only variable they Somewhere in the middle of all this was the to find it. Early in 1984, there were reports from CERN This turned out to be not the case, but the team. CERN kept bragging that their eventual upgrade needed to go above and beyond that to justify So for both technical and political reasons, energy of 40 TeV. The loop would have a diameter of 30 km, nearly If predictions were correct, the SSC would the Higgs boson as well. They estimated a 9 year project length, 3 The new estimate for costs was updated to not outrageous. After soliciting a number of different magnet and strength, they settled on a magnet that 12,000 Amps of current. This magnet won out over a design by a group magnet. The choice ultimately came down to the size magnet, the loop's diameter would nearly expensive. But here's where the drama comes in. The Texas group refused to accept this decision, meet their deadlines with the other designs. Now whether their design would have been any right when they predicted that Tigner and deadlines. The prototypes were a mess. Way over budget and behind schedule by over The magnets consistently quenched before achieving Basically, the fields were so strong that apart if not properly constrained, generating Solving this problem took nearly a year of In the years since the SSC was first conceived, In 1982, estimates said $4 billion. By 84, $8 billion. By 85, $10.7 billion. Now by 88, numbers as high as $14.1 billion It had doubled in cost since the DOE first deficit had been growing wildly out of control. Congress was instituting tougher and tougher funds, congress was going to have to approve To stave off any cuts, Energy Secretary John 30-50% of project funding would come from But as of yet there had been no eager volunteers. Weird that other countries aren't so keen project with American leadership on American I'm sure this definitely isn't an omen So in the meantime, with no foreign partners, for two back to back years, instead only giving The budget was growing, just not as much as Construction would have to wait for whoever Behind the scenes, the project had just narrowly its momentum for years. The SSC hit its first major budget snag in Somehow, in a shockingly negligent oversight, the location-search task force. During their travels across the country the which wasn't accounted for in the fiscal And Tigner's boss, Wilmot Hess, who was to go back to congress and request more. Instead, he was insistent that the $19 million which put Maury Tigner in one of the worst It was already halfway through the fiscal funds to the magnet development, the purchasing Guess which one the DOE wanted Tigner to cut. And when I mean cut, I actually mean lay off Tigner as you might expect, refused to do but also because he'd be laying people off Many of his employees had left comfy university Applying for funding for academic jobs is you'll be approved. If he let them go, he'd be screwing them over, the project a full year later. Tensions reached their peak on a particularly Wilmot Hess phoned him up and ordered him day. Tigner reluctantly began making a list. Disaster was thankfully averted by lunch, committee had finally allowed DOE to take Tigner held his ground, and saved his employees, It was a small victory. But Tigner's refusal to give into DOE orders When he first joined the project, he was viewed Now, he was labelled as someone who didn't in the coming months. Out of the blue, the DOE would receive an a high ranking member of the R&amp;D team. He argued in this 14 page proposal, that the both the construction and eventual operation Now the URA, for context, is the Universities of nearly 90 Universities, which operates Among these, was Fermilab, which at the time, It seemed only natural that URA should be However, there was a question of ethics. Was it acceptable to award such a big contract a proposal? Or should the DOE wait, and have a public And in fact, Alvin Trivelpiece actually brought DOE officials, and supposedly, one of those himself) had a pen in hand, ready to sign had to be resolved right this second. Trivelpiece reluctantly said no, and the proposal And it stayed that way for months. Eventually, Trivelpiece stepped down from its last remaining key supporter in the White Months later the URA sent in a slightly revised interim successor, James Decker, wasn't didn't have the clout to push the proposal Again, poor timing prevented the project from It wasn't until August 1988 that DOE officially the SSC. But the deadline was only 3 months away, wayyyy Really, the only group that could meet a deadline a proposal. In essence, the DOE was telling the URA that trust a bunch of egghead scientists to do The URA was now going to have to jump through they were willing to play ball with the administration. First, they wanted the URA to bring in private and secondly, they wanted them to prepare So, the URA begrudgingly complied, submitting billion dollar proposals commonly found in The modified proposal brought on Sverdup Corp. The former would handle the construction of for admin, electronics, and scientific instruments. The physicists at URA were unhappy with having complex, but they knew this was the only way This would prove to be a very delicate relationship it would get the ball rolling. Now as prickly as things were with the contractors, with the selection of the SSC's director. This pick would determine the person who would likely many years afterwards. But there was an ethical dilemma here. The URA was submitting a confidential government couldn't hold a public search for a director, jeopardizing the bid. In essence, they were worried about the science So the URA opted to conduct the search in R&amp;D team, headed by Maury Tigner. Dozens of names were thrown around for the Names you might recognize were Burton Richter Maury Tigner was another top candidate, although Even Alvin Trivelpiece was considered, and position at the DOE to avoid a conflict of Reportedly, the two runner ups were Leon Lederman, and Nicholas Samios, director of Brookhaven. But the winning candidate was Roy Schwitters. Schwitters had worked under Burton Richter Revolution, as well as being a manager of It had given him prior experience managing that most physicists could claim. But what really locked him in as the pick He was polished, statesmen-like, and in the could convince congress that the SSC deserved He was the tycoon archetype, someone who could goal. A politician, to be frank about it. It's also rumoured that it was an editorial convinced Secretary Herrington to back the So with a director chosen, URA finally drafted submit to the government. Directly under Schwitters you had Maury Tigner, Helen Edwards would serve as head of the accelerator laboratory administration, and finally Sverdup name) was selected for head of conventional As the deadline drew near, the original 14 3 volume, 6 inch thick proposal. As one executive put it: "bureaucratically Just in time, the proposal was submitted. And, as many expected, it was the only proposal The URA had, this entire time, been the only project, and after a year and a half of bureaucratic SSC. And yet...the day the management contract It was clear he had made up his mind months Before even a single shovel could break ground, had left. It seems there had been a growing animosity URA management team. There had been a prevalent assumption that at least among his loyal R&amp;D group. Maury had been partially blindsided by the in secret to avoid a conflict of interest. In the end Maury was passed over because he with non-physicists, overly blunt at times. His technical wizardry was unrivalled yes, the SSC, just not to manage it. Schwitters was much more adept at wooing the for keeping the project alive. To comfort a disappointed Maury, he was named negotiate their respective roles. However, these discussions were unproductive satisfied. Schwitters soon realized there was a gap between "It was clear he wanted total authority be guaranteed. He had a very specific list of people he demanded So if not the deputy director, then perhaps thought would be ideal for him. It was less front-facing than the deputy job, more technical know-how. Well, according to Tigner himself: "the as project manager". Ever since that fateful phone call, the DOE And so there was only one path left for Maury, When Tigner left the project, so did many him. Thus many of those who had spent 5 years working project. Those that did stay were much fewer in number, positions that gave them much less seniority The selection of Schwitters over Tigner, and first sign that big physics was changing. Gone were the days of risky, pioneering academics Now it was the age of the corporatist, conservative This split in attitude would prove irreparable Maury Tigner was the first person on this But for now, it was time to get to work. It was time to build a collider. While the selection of the URA and Roy Schwitters there was a far more interesting contest playing Where was the SSC going to be located? In terms of timeline there was a strong push end of 1988. This would allow Reagan to be able to leave a final accomplishment he could claim as his And so, the clock was ticking. In April of '87 the site selection contest Now, as exciting as the project was to scientists, US citizen, or more importantly, the average So, instead of marketing the SSC as a science machine. Specifically, one that would create 2,200 lab jobs, as well as a guaranteed source of Jobs win votes, simple as that. And with that, the grand prize had been set, every state in the nation. After 5 months had gone by and the September Energy had received 46 proposals, from nearly Of these, 7 were outright rejected for not one that was pitched to be in space. Since the US doesn't own outer space, it For a similar reason, another site that straddled This was the only international submission going for it. It would've crossed over between upstate CERN straddles the French and Swiss borders. This fact alone would have mitigated concerns and potentially could have led to broader And also, the location would have benefitted the nearby cheap Canadian hydroelectricity. Despite all this, the proposal was thrown was adamant about the site being entirely It wasn't so much that the site wasn't that would go on to sour relations with the But even more, the rejection greatly distressed and in particular, Republican Sherwood L. I'm singling him out for no reason at all. A more intense 2nd round of evaluations further to just 8 finalists, which were announced (Ft. Morgan), Illinois (Fermilab), Michigan (Stockbridge), Tennessee (Murfreesboro), and Texas (Waxahachie). And almost overnight there were some big changes. First, there were accusations of favouritism. This is a little farfetched, considering Reagan hadn't made the shortlist, almost entirely to earthquakes. A slightly more valid concern was preferential See, the DOE had made a big show about how in initial rounds, as they wanted the decision What they feared would happen was a bidding would just offer state funding as an incentive, So for that reason a coalition of smaller incentives be submitted in a sealed envelope, chosen. This of course, was a farce, because many announcements about how they were offering the task force would just have to pretend The second big change was much worse for long Marketing the SSC as a job creation machine, short term benefits. The site competition had been fierce, with tantalizing jobs. But as the majority of the states were cut elected representatives pivoted from supporting SSC was nothing more than a $15 billion parasite science funding. You couldn't even market the SSC as a science to how bloated the project was, and how we scale physics projects. In hindsight, this should have been an obvious Only one state was ever going to host the jobs. Only a few days after the announcement of withdrew the Rochester New York site from Apparently there had been strong local opposition to a large city center. Now, with the sole exception of Chicago Illinois, rural, with far fewer people who would need Each of the remaining sites had their own Arizona for instance, would only have to displace at other sites. Tennessee and Colorado had the best geology Texas, Michigan and North Carolina's sites nearby. But for most academics, the winner had been The contest was just a months-long dog and fairness. Fermilab, located in Chicago Illinois was Chicago was no stranger to this exact sort It had been the winner of a 1966 site selection place, and to beat a dead horse here, it was The Tevatron. With Fermilab already constructed, you'd lab infrastructure, and the hiring of thousands and universities right nearby. But perhaps the strongest reason, advocated the SSC at Fermilab would keep the US at 4 He argued that Europe enjoyed the advantage Going from 4 labs to 5 would only be making During a weeklong retreat, the task force 7 sites, and they submitted their report to A few days later, Secretary Herrington made The SSC was going to be built in Texas. Wait, wh-what? What do you mean Texas? That was the phrase that reverberated throughout And if tensions weren't high enough, just result, George H.W Bush had defeated Michael There was soon going to be a Texan in the Congress immediately requested an ethics investigation but no wrong-doing was found. The real reason that Fermilab lost out to as infuriating. In evaluating the 7 finalists, there were Fermilab, and Texas. Each had been judged according to four categories. On geology and regional resources, both Fermilab highest possible. But on the environmental category, Fermilab still received Outstanding. But it was the fourth and final category where For Setting, Fermilab received a Poor rating, that bad. See out of the remaining 7 finalists, only a non-rural area, and there was resistance about displacement due to construction, noise But among these concerns, you had an even CATCH-Illinois was a protest group who often expansion. They argued absurd claims that the experiments despite the fact that this is not the kind and also Fermilab had been operating a particle had any negative impacts on the community. It's thought that these fears were driven cleanup that was occurring at the time, as years earlier. The anti-nuclear movement was at its most But it wasn't just that there was local had specifically threatened to "tie up this Worried that the DOE wouldn't be able to the Fermilab site was considered too volatile, As for the Texas site, located just south the only location to receive 4 Outstanding It was an outcome that came as a complete Not quite everyone though. Richard Lundy, a physicist at Fermilab, made He told them to write down three predictions. 1. The SSC would be situated in Texas. 2. URA would be granted the management contract. 3. The project would fold in five years or less. He was now two for three. And exactly 5 years later, almost to the month, But until then, plans marched on. The crown jewel of American particle physics And you know what they say. Everything's bigger in Texas. It's a chilly November morning in Chicago. Two days ago, George H.W Bush won the 1988 Today, November 10th, it was announced that world's largest particle accelerator. The news had leaked to the press early, and on that Chicago morning, had heard the bad They waded and gathered throughout the halls Would the lab shut down? What about their jobs? Later that day, around noon, they found themselves labs' director, Leon Lederman, was going Just a month earlier Lederman had won a Nobel Expecting a somber speech, the audience erupted comically large cowboy hat. After the noise died down, Lederman began Much like George Bush two nights earlier, One for a best case scenario, and one for Lederman began by expressing his disappoint there, he maintained that Fermilab would have SuperCollider. As for Fermilab's future? He reminded the crowd that the SSC wouldn't 2000, and that in the meantime Fermilab's collider. They had 10 to 15 good years left in them. Not to mention they would likely play a key But despite his assurances, the crowd was As he wrapped up his speech, he put the cowboy message in his best Texas accent: "Call Despite the doom and gloom up in the Windy project could succeed down in the Lone Star Remember, Texas winning the site competition of corruption either. There was a strong, legitimate case for why pull off this gigaproject. The site in Waxahachie was just a short drive by one metric the 4th largest in the entire airport in the country. But most importantly, Texas was big, and Texas At this time, in both population and gross to overtake New York within the next decade, own. And for a multi-billion dollar project like to hand over some cash. And that's exactly what Texas lawmakers During the site competition state lawmakers But at the same time, you could make a lot one of America's largest cities. Texas had one big advantage though. The Fermilab site in Chicago had lost out Texans were excited for the supercollider. They wanted it built here. There were a few residents of Ellis county They had to be displaced, and had their houses But a surprising amount of the locals were Mayor Jordan of Waxahachie said "this is that's ever happened to us". Five local counties even agreed to raise vehicle construction. And at the state-level, support was just as Texas was the only state that had held a state-wide their submission, a process that generated In fact, state-wide support for the SSC was agreed to provide an additional billion or Very few states could match that amount of But Texas was willing to go a step further, first 2 years of construction if it meant Texas as a whole is sometimes unfairly viewed in reality Texas' cities are major hotspots course, defense contracting. In recent memory the state had acquired a research lab called SEMATECH in order to keep manufacturing. You'll also find NASA's mission control It puts the 'Houston' in 'Houston we All of this is to say that Texas had clout And a large part of that is due to Texas' Take it from Joe Barton, congressman for the be built: "We've got 27 congressmen, two If any state can do it, Texas can do it". You could make a strong case that Texas was congress, and it wasn't just a sheer numbers True power in congress doesn't just come 1 yay in a sea of nays isn't going to matter At least in this time period, Texas was one for bipartisan cooperation. In fact it was the only state that held biweekly Additionally, Texas Democrat Jim Wright was The speaker has the power to make committee to what committees. Other Texans of note were Martin Frost on chaired the House Appropriations committee, space and technology committee. In the house, Texas had a stacked deck, and Republican Phil Gramm served on the senate And for the Democrats you had Lloyd Bentsen. &quot;I served with Jack Kennedy, I knew Jack Kennedy, Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy.&quot; He had recently lost the election where he powerful Senate Finance Committee. Any budgetary bills need to make it through So if he say, wanted to indefinitely prevent Not only that, if any testimonies are held, the questioning of witnesses. True Washington influence comes from committees. And finally, you had George Herbert Walker &quot;But then we come to priorities. The Supercollider is BIG priority. A big part of our investment in America's And when you talk basic research, this is all rolled into one. And where once we reached for the moon above soon we'll begin to tunnel below to learn How our universe began.&quot; His support for the project had less to do SSC began under Reagan when he was VP, and now. And if you had Bush on your side, you also Sure, congress could vote to kill the SSC, majority, Bush could veto any budgetary bill Of course, Texas is just one state, and even so much. They needed other states on their side. Texas had won the lottery, 4500 permanent million in yearly lab funding. Once the site contest was over many of the no incentives, they'd sooner vote to axe But just because the grand prize was claimed prizes. Texas was going to have to rely on the great In comes the Texas Cartel. Not a literal cartel, that was just the nickname Commission (TNRLC). It was a lobbying and management group made leaders, and it had been formed by Governor contest. Among these Texas businessmen was billionaire For some of you that name might ring a bell. We'll be getting back to him much much later. The cartel was quickly joined by other lobbying You had IASSC, Americans for the Super Collider, Coalition. All funded by Texas, yes, but operated as Why? Because their job was to convince the other massive public works project. The main mission of the lobbying groups was possible and generate interest in contracts It's estimated that nearly 8000 contracts By one estimation, 47 of the 50 states had This was a tried and true political tactic complex, perhaps better known as pork barrel Make sure every state has a piece of the pie, for politicians to justify defense spending You can't slash the defense budget! If you do steel plants in Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Do you really want your vote to be responsible Of course, by sheer coincidence, many of the who had senators and congressmen who just committees, budget committees, science committees, "Hey, aren't you that senator from Louisiana? Say, would you and your constituents be interested See, we need a lot of magnets. And you want jobs for your people, to make And you want jobs for your people to make I feel like this could be a mutually beneficial After months of the cartel greasing just the agreed to allocate nearly half a billion dollars This budget wasn't without any speedbumps A group of three congressmen had proposed funds, and allocate less than half of that partners for the project. The house voted... [suspenseful electronic 330, to 93. To begin construction of the SSC. This margin of victory was huge, excellent The SSC had officially gone from R&amp;D blueprint, After the crushing disappointment at Fermilab, It did not take long for things to go off Director of the SSC lab, Roy Schwitters, was fill hole in his management chain. Who was going to replace Maury Tigner as project Maury's technical knowledge of the project staff was fierce. Losing him also meant losing many of his loyal the transition from California to Texas. But that wasn't the only thing not to make One of the key elements missing from the project These days it's practically a given that public sectors will employ a robust tracking But in the late 80s, with computer use still widely using them yet. On the contrary, many physicists actively it as another layer of bureaucracy and micromanagement In hindsight, not implementing a tracking Not to mention the contract signed with the to be implemented. They just didn't do it. Back in the R&amp;D days under Maury Tigner, there with no one to bring it over, it evaporated Roy Schwitters needed a strong 2nd in command, while Schwitters focused on working with Washington. While searching for a permanent replacement, attempts to implement the cost-scheduling who hated the system because they viewed it Even senior managers like Helen Edwards kept But this was a multi-billion dollar project, Eventually Schwitters found his ideal candidate, had led an accelerator program at the Lawrence Now Briggs was a competent guy, but bureaucrats things differently. Hunter thought Briggs lacked the ability to his appointment to the deputy director position. This kneecapped his authority, making it hard But to a certain extent, Hunter had valid The price-tag for the SSC sat at around $15 Fermilab's TeVatron. Hunter was insistent that the management team billion dollar projects, possibly someone For all these reasons, Hunter made it his and make sure the government had final say The physicists eventually got fed up with chain all the way up to the Secretary of Energy, granted them the autonomy to manage the project Lucky for them, the new Secretary agreed, in order to relieve some of the tension. This meant Richard Briggs could finally be But Robert Hunter would later be vindicated. As the months wore on, it became clear that than some hoped, and Schwitters decided to and bring back Doug Pewitt to be acting project If you're keeping track here, this is Doug And again, Doug Pewitt would try for a 2nd but reluctance from the physicists prevented To make matters worse, the two private companies experience with military contracts, were turning Unmitigated disasters. In a memo from the one of the SSC Board members, with people", most of them "incompetent", assigned." Sverdrup was supposed to be handling construction, had been sending their 3rd rate employees off. In fact, Sverdrup seems to have outright lied They had been brought on to dig the tunnels the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel. Except, it seemed like they had zero experience I don't know how that happens! The company as a whole was so incompetent been named director of conventional construction, His replacement, Lieu Smith, was also forced The SSC management opted to outright terminate of physicists to have to step in and manage find a new company to take over. The other company, EG&amp;G, was in charge of They weren't nearly as incompetent as Sverdrup, had very little to do except twiddle their It's said that EG&amp;G also tried to implement also failed. Worst of all though, the long delays led to team. Bruce Chrisman had been assigned to handle home to Fermilab, leaving many unfinished For those keeping score at home, it's May have either resigned or been forced off the That left Roy Schwitters as director, and Now fortunately, Helen was an ideal pick for She had been one of the lead designers of But, she had the unenviable task of adapting before he left the project. Tigner's plan had been purposefully generic, and it was Edwards' job to adapt it to Texas. But during this process she had come to the to have to be made. Tigner had chosen a risky design. He wanted magnets with an aperture size of This is risky because of magnets have a sweetspot Kind of like a tennis racket. The bigger racket, the bigger the sweetspot The magnetic field is the most uniform in the edges. A larger magnet aperture of 5cm would fix would be more expensive to manufacture because And would require extending the ring diameter She simply viewed 4cm magnets as too risky. If Tigner was still with the project, maybe But this was Edwards' job now, and she wasn't it off, so she wanted to go with a safer, Ultimately Roy Schwitters listened to Helen change. So now it was up to him to convince the bigwigs 4 billion more dollars. Just a wee bit. A tiny little bit. But since Reagan left office, Bush had appointed the department. And the new Secretary of Energy had some strong managed from here on out. On November 9th of 1989, two very important Number one, the Berlin Wall came down. Number two, Roy Schwitters visited Washington of energy, a man who wasn't exactly in the A couple years earlier, both the US and USSR But the fall of the Berlin Wall marked a clear It was basically over. And now the American public had to reckon buildup of the past decade. Turns out when you test thousands of warheads, The 80s had given rise to a vocal anti-nuclear disaster, it had gradually morphed into an Remember, part of the reason Fermilab lost movement. Now of course, the supercollider has nothing the same department, its budget and public There was immense pressure for the DOE to that would end up costing billions of dollars. A 1996 estimate pegged the total cleanup cost To put it in perspective, a single year's to cost more than the entire estimated cost To tackle this crisis, President Bush needed the cleanup effort. Hence... Admiral James D. Watkins. Yeah, remember him? Chair of the AIDS commission? And you thought I was just soapboxing. Well, yeah, I was. But it's all connected. It seems like whenever Reagan and Bush had too much about, they called in Admiral Watkins. Thankfully, compared to his last White House this one. Trained as a mechanical engineer, Watkins and even commanded a nuclear submarine. For this reason he had an immense respect and was generally in favour of the SSC and of President Bush. Watkins was a military man at heart, and he project that he saw spinning wildly out of academics. He deeply afraid that if costs kept ballooning the project. During his 4 years as secretary of energy, allies and defenders. But, at the same, his militaristic management the physicists and the DOE, and he would make the power of the physicists in charge of the Anyway, back to that fateful November day. Roy Schwitters had finally agreed to the magnet Schwitters then informed Henson Moore, the likely require a budget increase. Apparently Moore's response was "either agreed on...or we're not going to build When Admiral Watkins learned of the required I'm just now hearing for the first time God I love that. And reportedly had to be "scraped off the Schwitters stated that the next time he met The SSC management and the DOE had enjoyed smoothly, but tensions had once again rocketed Emergency meetings were called to discuss energy of the collider in order to keep costs One of the executives, Wolfgang Panosfky, about the target energy of 40 TeV, and that enough to find the Higgs Boson, among other 30 TeV or lower? Yeah, that could be a problem, but 34 was However Panofsky was outvoted, because the billion, which would be unlikely to sway any design to be weaker would be terrible for Over in Europe, plans for next generation a projected total energy 14 TeV. Keeping the SSC's energy at 40 TeV was not move to keep congress from asking "hey, The SSC had to be leagues ahead of anything Whether congress would agree to the extra Watkins remembered the 330-93 vote of the The SSC hadn't been in danger then, but Watkins wanted that number to go down. So in the meantime, he got to work making This project's scope rivalled that of the Both of which were projects led by generals. By God he was going to save this project money, on in the process. In his eyes, the only people who could get friends from the military industrial complex. Watkins viewed the magnet development as one It was always behind schedule and hemorrhaging This pressure led to Schwitters appointing Tom Bush had a PhD in engineering physics of his career managing multi billion dollar Given the sheer number of magnets they needed pick, and was undeniably effective at his But Tom Bush also had a militaristic management way. He forbid anyone outside his division from sharing of information with outsiders. Physicists value the free-flow of information, me how you want your magnets made, and I'll End of story." There are also stories of times when he, intentionally "missiles". Beyond parody. This toxic work environment directly led to Doug Pewitt, leading to another multi-month project manager. Roy Schwitters needed a permanent project who had not only had extensive management at Fermilab. Most physicists agreed he'd be a great choice. The Admiral had other ideas though. He suggested an old pal of his, Edward Siskin, navy. Soon, a compromise emerged, the physicists as project manager, but the Admiral would into the newly created role of general manager. On paper, this meant a reporting structure Schwitters. On the one hand, Siskin's appointment would On the other hand, many physicists suspected layers of bureaucracy to wrestle away control Watkins may have respected physicists for mean he trusted them with a billion dollar In early 1990 congress passed a bill that and created the Office of the SSC, a management Watkins then dipped into his navy contacts be "project manager" of this new office. Watkins told him that he calculated a 50% costs didn't come down. Cipriano's mission was to clamp down on equal power to director Schwitters. In particular Cipriano completely took over which enraged Schwitters and his management So with just a few rapid appointments of his management structure, all of whom could report He had found a way to entirely bypass the could do to stop him. Besides these three critical appointments, the physicists and engineers from the military As a rule of thumb, physicists like having at the last minute to maximize performance, timelines, locking in parts very early on And thanks to the Admiral's appointees, the engineers would get the final say. Jamming a bunch of physicists and engineers working relationship was always going to lead expected it to be this must friction. At the risk of beating a dead horse, if the would already have been an established staff together and wouldn't have this same friction. But again, if if and buts were candy and nuts, As the military contractors gradually took experienced physicists felt they were being Think back to the three main pillars of the You had the tunnel, the magnets, and the detectors. The tunnels and magnets were now firmly in and the physicists were clinging to the detector project. This meant two things: many senior physicists But this also meant that many of the new hires physicists with nothing to lose, which only Again, there was a push by Watkins' bureaucratic running, but it was violently resisted by Helen Edwards in particular, was known to which she'd update by hand without telling Eventually tensions between the physicists in another dramatic resignation. Somewhere along the line, when the DOE had there had been a disastrous oversight. The magnets alternated between two types, The design documents had been updated so that 4cm to 5cm, but the quadrupoles had remained They had spent months prototyping the wrong It was without a doubt the worst design mistake The only way that would work would be to feed in thickness, something that would be prohibitively Helen Edwards estimated that updating the million, but her suggestions were completely Schwitters couldn't overrule them, and that Edwards packed up her gear, and returned home It's April 1991. It's barely been 2 years, and every single either resigned, or been forced off the project. It was hard to argue that Admirals Watkins He had slowly reigned in a project that was But the collateral damage of a toxic work ways. Now it's important to keep in mind that not been lurking out of the public eye. It did not enjoy the relative lack of oversight All while it was undergoing management upheaval, SSC had been enduring a three-pronged attack, the project should continue to exist. Prong 1: The media. In the early days of the SSC, the media had to show the Europeans who was boss. In one article, the NYT stated that "American not be built at all." "The 3-0 loss in the boson race cries out But by the 90s the American media was singing The average journalist lacked the scientific of the project, and therefore wrote about The ballooning cost and the growing mismanagement. So it should come as no surprise that the an ever expanding money pit, and not the next the universe. Even science-focused media wasn't especially The influential American journal 'Science' a 5 year period between 1983 and 88. Of those couple dozen, only 5 focused on the All the others covered the rapidly growing The SSC had cultivated a perception not as and one that mainly benefitted Texas, at that. And although your first instinct might be can you really blame them? Particle physics is supremely abstract, full just very confusing. Look, I'm the one narrating this and I don't It's not my thing. I think you could make the case that this community. For many decades particle physics had enjoyed and had not been subject to much public scrutiny. But now, with their giga machine being paid responsibility, to convince the public that There was a pervasive attitude among particle to Joe-Schmo. They should just be allowed to get on with A real you reap what you sow kind of situation. There were exceptions to this of course, Steve instance. &quot;I don't think it's true that elementary particle of science is more important than other branches And I'm reaching an age where I'm beginning important than anything else. &quot; But the MVP was still Leon Lederman. He was an immensely talented educator who to explain just what was so important about It was him who popularized the term the "God But this effort to educate the public was high it was going to go, was too steep a price. Contrast this with NASA. NASA's budget reached an all-time peak during US budget in 1966. The Apollo program spent nearly $257 billion And even as budgets dwindled during the 80s, into space, albeit with some help from foreign NASA has always had two key things in its a concrete mission statement. NASA spends millions of its budget on outreach education system. Teaching kids from a young age about planets, Ask any 8 year old to name the planets, and Ask the average adult to name a single lepton, So when NASA says we're going to land on every American knows exactly what that means, And even though a moon landing doesn't have we recognize that along the way we've learned more. Particle physics doesn't have that. The fact of the matter is that you can televise You can't televise the Higgs Boson. And that leads us to... Prong 2: Other scientists. Simply put, there was an ongoing civil war Big science meant billion dollar giga projects the human genome. Big ideas that were meant to showcase American payoffs. Small science on the other hand, was everything is nonetheless, the backbone of innovation Unfortunately, small science was often critically And thus an army of academic critics rallied SSC. &quot;Mr. President what about experts in the private And here is how they ranked them: 1. Was the human genome project. 2. Was the National Aerospace plane. 3. Was the Space Station. 4. Was the Strategic Defense Initiative. And 5., number 5, the superconducting super In other words Mr. President America's corporate of its benefits for out national competitiveness. &quot; And these critics weren't no-names either, matter community. Nobel Prize winner Philip Anderson led the The 1980s were a major period of change for other month a new material was found that and warmer temperatures. The argument was that high temp superconducting operate without the need for helium coolers, diameter by a factor of 5, potentially saving They were basically demanding that the SSC study the new materials. Two separate academic panels investigated delay things by anywhere from 4-8 years. A delay this long could ultimately kill the with the current magnets. In retrospect I should note that to this day, has occurred. And just a few years later, Philip Anderson to calling for its outright cancellation. He was joined by a few other big names. "Big science has gone berserk." The American Physical Society, an influential to edit its official position on the SSC, threatening to leave. And thus the APS made the delicate change the SSC if it gets finished on time and without As part of its marketing campaign, SSC proponents spin-off technologies that could arise from They touted concepts such as better MRI tech, This was widely seen as a slimy tactic, as related to these off-shoots. &quot;Doctors who today announced that protons medical treatment.&quot; &quot;The time of the gentleman has expired.&quot; &quot;My friends this site will use the protons This is the future of America, this is the Vote DOWN this amendment!&quot; &quot;The gentleman's time has expired...several Everyone agreed that the SSC would be excellent it should come at the expense of every other And can you blame them? The SSC was getting more money each year than A lot of these attacks were being done in But the most dangerous part was that they And congress was listening. Gradually, these big-science detractors were and Democratic parties. Remember how I made a big deal about just Well, Texas had made a few enemies. Texas faced criticism from other smaller states, for what they perceived as favoritism towards During the military build-up under Reagan, as they were a hotspot for defense contracting The rustbelt on the other hand, stagnated, jobs that were being undercut by countries So what better punching bag than Texas? After all, Texas was already home to several to hear these bloated projects referred to And this coalition of smaller states, was as Texas. Illinois. So, just a reminder. Illinois was home to Fermilab, which had just SSC. Following the announcement of Texas winning, The SSC wasn't going to operational for Fermilab still had America's best accelerator, time. The conditions of the truce were simple: If Fermilab projects, Illinois' members of And this truce had manage to hold for two But as congress entered the budget cycle for Fermilab needed an upgrade if it wanted to to boost the energy of the Tevatron's main A comparatively humble number next to the In the house, one of the SSC's allies, congressman appropriations committee. Whatever emerged from that committee would The SSC team waited with baited breath. A day later, the news came. It was not good. The SSC had its budget slashed, $200 million But while Texas at least had some hope to All funding for the main injector upgrade None. In retaliation, an Illinois congressman proposed it to the main injector, but that amendment Too late though, the damage was done. Texas and Illinois were at each other's The uneasy truce had crumbled. Illinois was looking out for their own interests Do you remember that old 330-93 vote? Well, that had been the first real battle It wasn't much a contest back then, the But that resistance had been orchestrated of the fiercest deficit hawks in the entirety And they had slowly been gathering allies. Three of the major players were rustbelt democrats, Eckart, and Wisconsin's Dan Obey. All high ranking members of their respective suffer economically for the past decade. The most recent addition to the team Kansas &quot;Mr. Speaker when we talk about this question oppose the super collider aren't doing so And let me point out that the chairman of in 1992 also said and I quote: To fund this in other critical science programs, including Keep that in mind my friends.&quot; But none of them were comparable to the absolute L., Boehlert. Say what you will about his politics, but you that he's a phenomenal public speaker And if you happen to sitting across from him You better pray for your life. &quot;We are are hearing as we have just heard, Contrary to all the hype, the SSC will not the problem of male pattern baldness, and for the Chicago cubs. Let's have that understanding right here, Secondly a very important observation. You will notice that the proponents of the Louisiana. And maybe, someone from California. But you'll notice that the opponents are from in the midwest industrial belt, from New York, Boehlert been in the background for some time He first entered the story during the site When the international New York and Quebec project management wasn't concerned about Admiral Watkins had promised congress that almost $3 billion. And prior to him, Secretary Herrington had But given the lack of international partners, exactly trust the lofty promises of a few He introduced a bill stating that 25% of the sources, and it passed the house without much Only issue is, it never got through the senate. The SSC had a powerful ally in one Senator Bennett Johnston of Louisiana. Bennett was powerful even by the standards He was the chair of not one, but two committees. Energy and National Resources, and the Appropriations Johnston simply refused to let the bill pass In his eyes he thought the US should fund damned. I'm sure it also helped that General Dynamics his home state. And thus the bill never came to a senate vote, But in the eyes of the house, this didn't They voted on it, and it passed, making it So if the SSC management went and ignored Soon after the kerfuffle between Texas and and Slattery introduced an amendment to cut million or so for the main injector upgrade. Boehlert argued that the SSC was supposed away funding from the rest of science. The amendment to kill the SSC came up for electronic beeping] 251 to 165. That's good. We're good. The SSC is still safe. Slattery's amendment was always going to But the margins were shrinking at an uncomfortable Two years earlier, in the 1989, the equivalent Somewhere in those 2 years the SSC had lost And if you look at a map of where the votes Green shows states where the majority of representatives and red is against. The sunbelt and the rustbelt were at war, Now that was just the house, and the budget The SSC's budget request slid into the senate Luckily they still had a powerful ally in Appropriations Committee. And thanks to him, the bill emerged from committee on. The SSC budget survived the Senate vote, 62-37. But still, it was hard not to worry about As a side note, whenever the house and senate committee consisting of both house and senate out the final number. In this case, the disagreement was small, billion was reached. This would be the last time such an easy compromise From this point on the house and the senate Anyway the Soviet Union collapsed. Not all at once of course mind you. A few economic reforms over here. A wall coming down over there. A saucy little attempted military coup, you And wham bam thank you ma'am now you've got drowning Russia, and a giant hole where there In the blink of an eye, the US Government was spending so much money on its military. And by extension, overly ambitious cold war With the Soviets gone, who were we trying Not to mention, America was deep in another Due to deregulation that began under Carter bubble backed up by fraud led to over a thousand Funnily enough, Texas was home to nearly half At the time, it was the largest economic crash This was only worsened by losing trade wars manufacturing. Finally, the country was still stuck with from a decade of Reagan and Bush's defense large portion of the DOE budget. For the first time since the end of the Vietnam budget to a sizeable degree. And the hope of many, was that decreases in other programs, these were the so-called peace Ideally, this funding would be diverted from Health care, education, jobs. So what do you think happened? Text the number on screen with your answer. As part of its deficit reduction policies, and civil spending. A decrease in one couldn't be used to fund Congress had crushed the hopes for a peace Funny how it always works out like that. Now, for Bush, as former head of the CIA and military budgets cuts were like pulling teeth. And for all the aforementioned reasons his either. If only there was something he could do to With the Soviet Union actively disintegrating, ire. And thus began a pair extremely short hot all the fancy high-tech death toys that had The Gulf War, Desert Storm, or the first Iraq Basically Saddam invades Kuwait over what And Bush assembles a UN coalition to kick Iraq's infrastructure and sanctions that drove And don't mistake this for the simping for that George here had such a change of heart money, illegally selling him rockets, aircraft Defending his **************. And silently Following Desert Storm Bush's polling numbers Democrats wonder if it was even worth running And it helped cement US influence in a region due to the long shadow cast by the USSR. And most importantly, Bush had found a new and its corresponding R&amp;D funds. Would he be able to create a similar justification Probably not. And that meant only one thing was likely to Someone else was going to have to split the Foreign funding, was a serious chicken and Congress had wanted firm foreign commitments But other countries were waiting in the wings risked any money on the project. After months of waffling, Congress finally because of promises from multiple Secretaries But several years had gone by, and still not This wasn't playing well with people like Remember his 'Will of the house' pseudo-law? Go against the will of the house, and you'll So what exactly was the problem? Why were other countries so reluctant to join Let's dive down into specifics. Europe. This one's easy, the majority of European on joining. CERN had it's successful LEP collider up oft-mentioned upgrade that would allow it Large hadrons, if you will. The SSC had simply too much of an overlap as that. So if not Europe, who else was left? Well Canada was considered, given that they trading partner. However talks didn't lead anywhere. Canada's physics budget is barely a fraction going to their TRIUMF facility in Vancouver. It also didn't help that Canada was a little New York/Quebec site years earlier. It wasn't even especially farfetched, CERN still, the idea was shut down by the Reagan mouth. Besides America's usual allies, pretty much to join the SSC. South Korea seemed promising, and India had A good start, but only a drop in the bucket. To give you a sense of how desperate things from Russia and China. Yes. That Russia, and that China. In Russia's case, the economy was, how can weren't feasible. Instead it was suggested that Russia's dirt-cheap at massive discounts, and those discounts The same labs once used to develop ballistic components." A Russian physicist at the SSC joked by saying For many years we made high-precision components Unsurprisingly, this proposal was not popular "So you're telling me, that instead of you want to send those jobs...to Russia???" The SSC was having an identity crisis. It was somehow an America-first, American also trying to become an international center Odds were if a Nobel Prize came out of the a prospect that wasn't too appealing for There was even really funny incident where SSC to the Ronald Reagan National Accelerator This was immensely unpopular with those working a lab that was in desperate need of international Thankfully the Bush admin seemed to lose interest In effect, America was saying "hey we're and we want other countries to pay for it". It was a diplomatic strategy that did not Thankfully America learned its lesson and ever again. But I've intentionally left out one country, getting a true international partner for the A country with active support for physics, to another collider. The SSC's hopes depended on Japan. So why Japan? Well, outside of Europe and Russia, Japan lab, KEK. Even better, the current prime minister was nation's minister of science. If anyone in the Japanese government would it'd be him. Diplomatic feelers had been put out to gauge were mostly positive. Japan was excited with the idea, but they meant. They weren't dumb, despite comments from collaboration, Japan distinctly remembered To cement things a personal one-on-one request Expectations were that Bush would ask at their no presidential request ever got made. Oh well. There's still plenty of time for Bush to Like at their next summit. Nope. Huh. Okay their next one. Still nope. Uhhhh the next one? Oh my god, for real? Finally though, for reals this time, Bush would be a topic at their next summit in November Bush even sent a letter to formalize things. Finally after months of dancing around the So...anyway prime minister Kaifu was forced factions within the Liberal Democrats. Kaifu had belonged to the weakest faction he was a "Mr. Clean" candidate, untarnished players. He was replaced as prime minister by Miyazawa, to scientific interests. His past political appointments included minister and international trade and industry. In other words, someone who was going to play But regardless of whoever Japan's top dog any demands. For one, the US had already asked for help Japan had dragged its feet regarding the war Not wanting to get involved in actual combat, a few billion dollars. But the true issues were decades in the making. Classic case of reaping what you sew. The US had pumped billions of dollars into East-Asian capitalist utopia in a region of But now, 30 years later, Japan was an economic major American industries such as steel and And while America may have invented the silicon In 1975, America had 100% of the semiconductor By 1986, that share was down to 5%. Most of that share had been lost to Japan. Hence why the government was so eager to fund mentioned earlier. In the eyes of some American politicians, Inc., a coordinated juggernaut of a government With the previous November 1991 summit pushed Fight a trade war over automobile imports ask for a couple billion dollars to fund the Can you guess which one he chose? Well, he didn't really get to make a choice. Bush chucked it up. Like during dinner, he fainted, and then vomited minister. The incident quickly became a running joke In Japan the slang term Bushusuru was coined, The approximate cause of the incident was amounts, as well as exhaustion from a long The incident pre-emptively ended the dinner, about the SSC. Now obviously, George Bush vomiting didn't Although it's extremely funny to pretend In reality, diplomats from both countries scenes, but Japan refused to budge unless to face. Bush had had 5 chances to do so, and he never Asking about the SSC would have put him at and Bush wasn't willing to take that risk. So for that reason, and because Bush faced the Japanese never made a commitment to the The United States would continue to take a As 1992 progressed, things seemed to settle actually going right! The work culture at the Texas site was finally John Rees had just been appointed project that roll, ending a 5 year long revolving Maury Tigner first left it vacant. The previous project manager, Paul Reardon, Siskin in what some people described as having Thankfully, Rees and Siskin were able to get a complete boondoggle. And Siskin had finally managed to institute Can we get a hell yeah? And on there were even a few victories on One building was finished, with another set been awarded for the tunneling. The hope was that it would commence in fall And if this last one doesn't make you sigh They'd gotten the magnets to work. Mass production would soon follow. Clear roads ahead. It was this renewed sense of hope that carried June 17th, 1992, Ohio Democrat Dennis Eckart and water bill for fiscal 1993. It was yet another amendment to kill the SSC. Here's $67 million, shut everything down. Go home. You're done. Remember that just last year, this same congress failed, with 251 voting to keep the SSC, and A margin of 86. Odds were the vote count would be similar, And so the votes rolled in....[dramatic beeping] 232 to save the SSC, 181. Okay, not the worst! Again, the margin was slowly disappearing, [A sinister beep] That's what I would say, except the totals Hopefully you feel just as dumbfounded as They'd walked into this vote taking for get the project back on track. But in just one year, 70 members of congress The margin had gone from +86, to -51. Again, looking at the state level a trend Illinois and the rustbelt was against the Texas and the sunbelt were slowly losing allies. &quot;And we spent 3 days in hearings and I guarantee us one iota about this project. I asked him: What do you hope it will do? He couldn't tell me. Well what might it do? He couldn't tell me. And he summed it up by saying: Well if we And I guess I have to say let them do it. I mean we can't do everything, we can't do do it! We'll steal their technology like they steal Support for the project "was a mile wide, If it came down to it, a member of congress money vacuum like the SSC. The reason why the votes had shifted so suddenly The US deficit. In a move spearheaded by Leon Panetta of California, to resolve the nearly $1 trillion deficit. Rather than kicking the can down the road, Cut programs on a case by case basis until And in Panetta's words, the SSC was "the Other congressmen called it "a tremendous There was also a question of poor optics on Two key Texas Republicans, Joe Barton, congressman well known for campaigning on cutting taxes, the SSC, ruining their credibility. The irony was not lost on enemies of the SSC. "OK [shithead]. You want to balance the budget? We're going to start with your project". I didn't write that by the way, that's There are some pretty key differences between senate was inherently more likely to support The house has ~400 seats, distributed roughly The senate is not proportional, and has exactly But also, house members face re-election every districts, senators face re-election every House members have to worry about the immediate thus might be inclined to cut projects that Whereas senators have the benefit of being the long-term. And it was the general attitude in the senate solid, long-term investment in American productivity. That being said, it wouldn't be an easy The SSC still had Bennett Johnston on their the project alive because of the magnet plant But he would have to contend with good old gloves. &quot;Now here, there is one physicist in the country boson exists. And that after we spend probably $20 billion find it!&quot; &quot;Half the gross national product of today's 30 years-half of it! And we can make this-Senator Bumpers says years from now or 100 years from now. Well frankly they won't they would have been developed by somebody else if we don't do Johnston managed to finesse the SSC's budget back up to just over a billion. When Bumpers threatened an amendment to kill Bush to make a show of support. Because Bush was facing difficult election more crucial, and thus he met with 5 Republican votes. And so after hours of testimony and debate beeps] 62 to save, 32 to kill. They saved it. Not just saved it, the margin in the senate Except, they weren't quite out of the woods Whenever the house and senate disagree on Thankfully this committee was comprised of decreased amount of about $1 billion. The bill was once again on the house floor to survive. See, the committee, chaired by good old congressman with the rest of the energy and water projects So if you wanted to kill the SSC, you'd projects in your own districts, with an election It was in effect, the congressional equivalent And it worked. The bill passed 245 to 143. The senate had strongarmed a -51 vote margin They had come from the brink of death. Although miraculous, and certainly better and bruised. Foreign partners would take one look at the money. Speaking of political upheaval, for the first in the Oval Office. Unlike the 1988 election which Bush won handily, public was looking for a change, with "generic Eventually, "generic democrat" became ran on one key phrase: "It's the economy, But it wasn't just that, compared to Clinton, black hole. He came off as an elitist, out of touch, Washington in Maine. During one of the debates he was asked a question his family, during which he glanced at his But the biggest contributor to his loss, were right. After a close primary race where he narrowly with someone who wasn't a member of either An old acquaintance from earlier. Texas billionaire and certified short King, Who you'll remember, was a major fan and potential. Perot threw his hat into the ring because that would occur if the North American Free The final votes totals were 43% for Clinton, ever election result for a 3rd party candidate If you run the exit polling numbers, Clinton even without Perot taking votes from Bush. But it's fair to say that Bush had a much from both the left and the right. Ironically though, by helping to unseat George machine, in a tough spot. The SSC had not been one of Bush's priorities, it would retroactively make Reagan and himself So he had made it clear he'd use his presidential And Clinton, although not an enemy of the power. Bill Clinton wasn't the only new face in Joining him was a record number of freshman In fact, it was the largest number of freshman midterm elections. And regardless of whether they were Republican common. They were deficit hawks. They ran on promises to slash the bloated And lucky for them, there was one pretty obvious And there was no more presidential veto standing There's a famous story about British scientist You may know him better known as Lord Kelvin, On April 27th 1900, just a few months into a new century, he gave for the Advancement of Science. And one quote in particular has been repeated "There is nothing new to be discovered in All that remains is more and more precise measurement". It's a massively ironic statement, because would solve the Black Body radiation problem mechanics. And 5 years later, Albert Einstein would publish But would it surprise you to hear that Kelvin Kelvin never predicted the end of physics, specifically identifies two remaining clouds that were And as it happens, those two clouds would turn out to be quantum fields that to this day, have only led to physics, with no end in sight. Kelvin wasn't perfect, he saw no future but it's this urban legend that has unfairly Some historians believe that the origin of when an American scientist, Albert Michelson, claimed already been discovered, and that physics would henceforth decimal place." Now in fairness to Michelson here, he had a theorist, and some historians argue that investments in scientific equipment. Because if you don't have precise enough you don't really know what it is you don't What we can gather from this anecdote, it it's a recurring sentiment in human history out the final mysteries of the universe, only questions. In 1911 Ernest Rutherford was firing alpha amazing. Atoms are almost entirely empty space, with but extremely heavy, nucleus. Many years later, reflecting on these results, Rutherford said: &quot;It was quite the most incredible It was almost as incredible as if you fired and it came back and hit you.&quot; Particle accelerators had not been invented and they wouldn't be for another 18 years. But Rutherford had just reinforced the great tradition of smashing things together, and There have been dozens of days that humans have announced the end of physics. Maybe one day one of them will be right. After a decade of planning and 2 presidential was finally going to begin. But almost immediately, two disasters struck. One physical in nature, and one PR. Just days after Clinton's inauguration, killing a worker. Tunneling on that section was immediately while a section with stabler geology continued Two months later, Roy Schwitters, director of the SSC, had spent much of his Malcolm Browne. In a lapse of judgement, likely brought on Schwitters loudly complained about congressional Something he wouldn't have done if he remembered that a New York "We should be devoting ourselves to completing the machine as rapidly science. Instead, our time and energy are being sapped The SSC is becoming a victim of the revenge of the C students." When the quote hit papers it was instantly and Roy Schwitters quickly became the cliche who felt entitled to billions of tax payer It was an omen that business as usual would not play well in this new political The election of Bill Clinton was not necessarily a bad sign for the SSC, but it also wasn't On the campaign trail Clinton had expressed his support for the project, support you give to projects that aren't really &quot;Then there are some programs that I think are quite central to fund them. Many are controversial with those who don't them. I'll tell you a couple I believe in, I think the Superconducting super collider because expensive&quot;. That is the voice of a man who could not care He's talking about it like a dad who has to pay for piano lessons, lessons. Clinton's unofficial campaign slogan "it's and his priorities were set accordingly. Although it started under Bush, the North Agreement, or NAFTA, would be continued under time during his first year in office. No, when it came to science, Bill was more to his right hand man. Vice president Al Gore, who had served on in the senate. And if you know anything about Al Gore, it Clinton admin shifted research priorities and environmental research. Other winners under this new admin were bio and basically anything with a short term economic This unfortunately, came at the expense of basic physics research, which included the Al Gore was instead pushing for a variety smaller projects under the DOE budget. An advanced neutron source in Oak Ridge, the Tokamak Plasma Experiment at Princeton, or SLAC. And finally, he was pushing to keep Fermilab's which you may remember from last time, was in congress. The SSC had spent years draining funding from the reverse was happening. Also worth noting, with no obvious military the military budget would be on the decline got back down to Jimmy Carter levels. Clinton even made changes to the proportions Instead of the absurd 40/60% split of civil went so far as to reduce the split to 50/50%. Very on brand for the democrats. "We promise to keep everything mostly the same, but with exactly 10% less As for the DOE top dog, Admiral Watkins was longer the Secretary of Energy. Despite his disagreements with the project he had been a fierce ally of the project, a huge hurdle to overcome. But his influence didn't disappear completely. His pals from the military industrial complex, Cipriano and Siskin, were at the SSC, for better and for worse. Watkins' replacement was Hazel O'Leary, Carter admin who specialized in energy policy. Her appointment reflected the new priorities of Clinton and Al Gore. The SSC and high energy physics was not a Rather, her appointment was intended to help address That's not to say she wasn't going to There was still the matter of foreign funding, and although Bush had still hope. To kickstart talks, in February O'Leary PM. Except this letter was never sent, because Clinton and Clinton's science advisor refused to Another attempt to send a letter was blocked a month later, but this time by They worried that it would send the message that the SSC was more aid to Russia. And so, SSC allies turned their focus on the and Miyazawa, an in-person presidential request In preparation for this summit an A-list team of physicists they spoke with Al Gore, who assured them that Apparently this didn't translate into the on the ongoing trade war with Japan over automobile So again, the US refused to give a clear presidential endorsement, and Japan again, Funny how that works. However, even in the off-chance that Japan it was beginning to look like any amount of late. To get the project back on schedule it was for fiscal year 1994. In the best case scenario, congress might There were some in the Clinton White House altogether, in particular the newly promoted If you remember from earlier he was the budget hawk who helped force the vote But other advisors hatched a plan that would hopefully Rather than keeping to the original construction schedule, they would This would add to the cost by at least $2 billion, finally pushing factor would be that the yearly costs would a much better chance at making it through congress. A delayed collider was much better than no The atmosphere at the Waxahachie lab site With budget season looming over the horizon, there was as possible. Maybe if they showed some progress, congress After the accidental death just a few months prior, 6km of tunneling had been Late last year the magnet test lab had just finished construction, as had the sequence. The superconducting magnets, which had been were finally robust enough for a manufacturing pumped out in the thousands. And finally, the DOE had approved construction major detectors. This detector alone was projected to cost and yet DOE had only allocated $1 billion I think it's fair to say that those in Waxahachie were living in a different One detached from the financial concerns of the rest of the country. One where the SSC's success hinged on just They'd already sunk so many years, and so What else could they do, but work their asses off? The SSC's fate was never in their hands, June 23rd. The house is once again voting on whether America's most expensive scientific giga After the nail-biter that was 1992's budget hopes were not high. This congress was full of eager freshmen members Both democrats and republicans were elected Slash big government spending to help put pocket of the American taxpayer. And so, the votes are coming in. [Suspenseful sound effects] It's still alive. A vote margin of 1 is as slim as it gets. Although not uncommon in the senate, it's absurdly unlikely in the house. Just the stuff of divine intervention. Well, maybe not divine, but certainly an intervention from a higher It turns out both Al Gore and Bill Clinton spent the previous night making desperate doing all they could to sway their votes. And against all odds, they succeeded. By one...single...vote. It couldn't have been written anymore perfectly. And that's why I hate to do this. I need to pull the rug out now. You knew it couldn't be true. You knew this was coming. I couldn't resist one last fakeout. This wasn't the vote count for the SSC. It was the vote count for the ISS. The International Space Station, AKA, the was hemorrhaging money, lived to see another Remember the old Space Station Freedom idea back from the Reagan Well that idea was a money pit that underwent 7 redesigns before ultimately being scrapped. The ISS concept revived the project, but there was a critical difference now. With the cold war officially over, NASA and had agreed to pool their funds, in addition But even then it was not a sure thing, the The ISS wasn't space science, it was space hardware, to teach humanity anything new beyond some basic &quot;Dr. Blueburgen up at Harvard said: &quot;Microgravity research? Is of Micro-importance.&quot; You can do microgravity research right here on earth And yet, the image of astronauts from several above the earth is too compelling not to pursue. Clinton's rationale should be obvious. If the US gave up on the ISS, it would have meant a nations who were committed to funding it, as well Clinton was not having an easy first year Although he won the election he had been accused of marital infidelity on the In late 1993 "Don't ask don't tell" succeed in pissing off both the left and right His healthcare reform bill, spearheaded by first lady Hillary Clinton, even his own party was split on it, Democrats to misguided. Furthermore, his economic stimulus bill was Clinton already lacked the influence to get It's not a surprise then that if he had project, he'd choose the one that was splitting the So on June 24th, the very next day, when the SSC came up to expect. [THUD] The total was 280-to-150. A 130 seat margin to kill the SSC. The house was going to be heard, and you do And just like last time, it would come down to the senate. Clinton had predicted this path. "I always anticipated that if we were going to save the super collider, But this would be a much tougher fight than in 1992. Members of the house remembered what happened time, how they were strong-armed by the senate, to take hostages. The house wasn't going to get played a 2nd So representative John Dingell, a prominent SSC critic and member of the Northeast-Midwest played one of the few cards they had left, his Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. He was going to turn the DOE inside out and the bottom of the mismanagement and generally Dingell was a skilled interrogator, notorious for going funding. This intense 9 hour hearing would prove to Dingell stated that "the SSC ranks among the worst projects and failed government oversight". SSC management was reamed out for the delays software up and running, and it would emerge billion, double what had been estimated. Energy Secretary O'Leary was hit particularly hard during questioning. She blamed the management structure put in with Cipriano basically removing all control But she also lambasted the physicists too, arguing they couldn't be trusted to away any construction responsibilities away from Following the hearing a full audit of the finances was performed, with generous estimates and the worst case ones saying $24 billion. This was before any cost increases from the stretch-out. Gosh, do you remember the days when we thought With the SSC's future in jeopardy, Texas in funding, leading to director Schwitters having to cut It led to over 300 layoffs. It didn't help that Schwitters and Cipriano They were no longer on speaking terms. This came after a Washington Post article, a private memo where Cipriano recommended Senator Bennet Johnston, in an effort to paint the project in a better the senate. Dale bumpers yet again introduced his amendment &quot;Now the senator wants to challenge the $20 billion figure I guess.&quot; &quot;That's right.&quot; &quot;Okay. We've been through this so many times I know what you're thinking before you say it.&quot; &quot;And I'll just simply say: We're not to $20 yet. But we're not to $13 billion yet either but &quot;You've got to be eating and smoking something awful strong &quot;I mean are we going to just let this country sink evening tide and say we can't compete anymore. We have no more scientific curiosity, we have competitiveness? We're going to let this budget deficit fueled The votes came in... [Suspenseful sound effects] ...57-42...to save the SSC. The senate had come through yet again, albeit margin so far. The SSC was losing allies left and right. Round 1 went to the house. Round 2 went to the senate. The ultimate fate of the SSC would be decided were going to meet in a conference committee Would a compromise be made, and the SSC live on? Or would the house get its way? Boehlert and Slattery, the perpetual enemies of the SSC in the house, anticipated a repeat vote. The house and senate compromise committee the appropriations committees, almost all The two of them rallied to get SSC opponents included, but the speaker So how exactly do you compromise between a senate uh...$0? Well at least according to the compromise You can imagine that this enraged much of It was one thing to keep funding the SSC, but it was an outright insult, to award it And once again, just like last time, the SSC's budget wasn't year's worth of water and energy funding, funding projects. Hostage taking at its finest. If the house truly wanted to kill the SSC, they had to be prepared to also kill the rest But actually, no. No. Jim Slattery refused to accept this, and so compromise committee to delete SSC funding And so the house members, sick and tired of being made out to be fools, 282-143. The hostage analogy kinda breaks down here, It's kind of like if everyone in town agreed that you should in the head. 115 Republicans and 166 Democrats made their The SSC had to stand on its own. No hostages. When the actual bill came to a vote, the house 332-81. The SSC was dead. It ends here. Shut it down. The senate, knowing they were defeated, agreed, 89-11. For 114 freshman members of congress, this on the SSC. 82 of them voted to kill it. When the house wills it, it will find a way. George Bush once compared the supercollider He of course meant it in the wonders of the world sense. And in a uh, ironic twist of fate, his words kind of hold true. The supercollider is not a world wonder. But it is a tomb. Following the fateful house vote that ultimately killed held a conference committee in a last ditch effort During which, they begged and pleaded with Boehlert and Slattery. This begging and pleading led to an almost compromise. The SSC got to keep its $1.2 billion budget. The catch, was that it could only be used to shut the project down. US congress had just approved the most expensive history. In a quote that is extremely insensitive coming would tell reporters that "The SSC has been When the SSC was officially killed in congress, just a little more than a quarter of the total loop. In total, $3.85 billion had been spent. The reactions from the academic community were bleak. Leon Lederman described it as a "tragedy everyone in it." "The government decided, in its wisdom, The day after the House vote that killed the a phone call from senator Bennett Johnston's chief It was over. There was no coming back from this. Sitting across from Richter was John Peoples, For the past month he'd been quietly asked by step in and replace Roy Schwitters in a last ditch attempt At this point he couldn't save the SSC. It'd be the equivalent of becoming captain But at the very least, he could prevent it with it. &quot;When the uh S-congress voted to terminate it'd be very important that this be done well, both I am director, and for the whole high energy physics The people who built this laboratory had struggled very very hard to try to bring odds. I mean, if you had to pick a time to build a laboratory, time.&quot; Some worried that Schwitters would view the In his resignation letter, he stated that "[he] And that is no longer possible". "He felt uncomfortable and inexperienced After 5 years, every original name on this had left the project. His departure would help reduce tensions at Following the nasty televised hearings where Secretary bus, their relationship had become extremely bitter, Although you would think that shutting a project there was still a tangled mess of delicate The most politically sensitive was how to deal with the Texas issue. Texas Governor Anne Richards was livid, she had tried to get Bill Clinton to veto indicated that he gave her an ultimatum. It's either the SSC, or the space station, Texas had business ties to. The choice at that point, was basically already So instead, she demanded that DOE reimburse them $1.2 in addition to $519 million for any new research site, the same amount they would have gotten But given that Congress had only given $1.2 billion total appeared impossible. Despite this, it was the opinion of the White repaid, not only because of the potentially but also because, and I quote here: "it's In the end Texas had invested around $1 billion in cash in cash, and $956 million in land and facilities. As fair as deal as they could hope for given circumstance. By early 1994, those who were left working morgue. The initial termination benefits for all the some people feared for Secretary O'Leary's of about to be fired workers. O'Leary met with John Peoples to discuss and Peoples pushed hard for better terms. Later, in the eventual all-hands meetings, she dramatically ripped up the old contract &quot;Everyone was going to be taken care of&quot;. John Peoples, she stated &quot;[is] a guy who knows In a clever move, Peoples realized that they could use some of the remaining to the soon to be unemployed workers. This allowed many of them to quickly find saving the DOE around $300 million in unemployment As for the remaining buildings and infrastructure, Governor Richards put together The magnet lab could pretty much be used as-is, colliders. The linear accelerator on the other hand had cancer treatment labs. The computer infrastructure could easily be lab. Non-physics proposals included turning the or using the tunnels for geology studies. In the end however, none of these projects happened. Congress debated funding for all of them, was deemed too expensive to be worth it. Magnet lab? Too expensive. Cancer research? There's no nearby medical facilities. Geology studies? The tunnels were filled with water and sealed I can't put an optimistic spin on this. So much money was wasted for no reason. The only positive outcome was that 10 school districts and one That's it. Like many Democrats, Texas Governor Anne Richards Republican Revolution of 1994. But I should stress, like everything else her loss can't be chalked up to just one The SSC collapsing didn't lose her the election, but it certainly didn't help. The GOP could have put literally any no-name a suit and they probably would have won. And the man they chose wasn't exactly a no-name. To date she is the last Democrat to ever hold By this point, John Peoples had effectively the SSC and Fermilab, and he was at his limit. He resigned in the summer of 1994. Unexpectedly, American particle physics would stumble onto Fermilab, had found evidence of the top quark. The sixth, and final quark was detected, with with the theory. Fermilab, even with its 30 year old tech, under its belt. With that, it was official, all six quarks When the SSC was cancelled, it meant minor good SLAC got $69 million for its B factory. Oak Ridge could start its advanced neutron And finally, Fermilab got $48 million for its main injector The US wasn't going to lead particle physics for much longer, but at least for In the years since, Waxahachie considered some of their money back. A wind tunnel, an exotic mushroom farm, Six Decades earlier Waxahachie had been the filming example of history repeating itself, the SSC site Damme's Universal Solider, and the stupid yet amazing After nearly 10 years of un-use, in 2006 a comically Texan multimillionaire site. Hunt was well known for having a hand in a to bring his newest venture, data storage, to Waxahachie. I don't think there's another human being ever been this excited about data storage "I am always dealing in things I know nothing about" "What turns me on is when 20 of [...] I think that does something to me.&quot; In final cruel twist of fate, as if the site a patch of ice and hit his head on the pavement. He died from injuries a few days later. The data center project ended with him. Later a chemical manufacturer known as Magnablend land in 2012. Although if you believe youtube comments, are actually being used as a series of bunkers As a tribute, Magnablend named their new facility the Specialty Services The SSC name, at least in spirit, lives on. I told you this story doesn't have a happy And I guess that's true, if you focus only the American-centric perspective. Pretty much the same day the SSC was cancelled, American physicists knew Europe, and thus began the slow bureaucratic process CERN, and their Large Hadron Collider, or LHC, was For most of you, I think you know how this story ends. But even then, the LHC was never guaranteed face several catastrophic hurdles that could The fact that it did succeed in spite of those hurdles, The LHC concept is much older than you might In the usual European fashion however, the plans upgrade process. The first stage was to build the LEP (large Perhaps you remember, CERN director general in 1987, begging the Americans to join up with them, The LEP was completed in 1989, with a ring circumference of 27 km. The LEP could collide low mass leptons up But to break through the multi TeV barrier they would need to support to use hadrons, AKA, any particle consisting So already, maybe you can see a couple advantages the LHC had over the SSC. First, a unified governing body of 19 countries, instead of just 1. No nation on its own, no matter how wealthy, anymore. The physical scale is too vast, the costs And secondly, the LHC had a much smaller scope i.e. an already constructed tunnel, and a Here, it's hard not to draw the comparison to If that SSC had been built at an existing with existing technical and human infrastructure, With the benefit of hindsight many in the the SSC's design was flawed, and that even if it got In the 1980s when the SSC was designed, the variable that mattered was max energy, hence massive footprint. To be competitive the much smaller LHC loop maxing out a different variable. Luminosity, AKA the number of collisions per A single high energy collision on its own distinguish it from the background noise. You want to crank up the luminosity until hundreds of millions of collisions per second. The SSC, for a variety of reasons, would have had a garbage luminosity. So it was here where the LHC would have had Despite having 19 member nations, there was the LHC might not get funded. CERN's member states contribute a yearly percentage of their GDP. Germany in particular was central figure in being a country with considerable wealth and But the 90s were a time of major upheaval and West Germany was costing hundreds of billions in no surprise that Germany was requesting a With one of CERN's key financial backers France and Switzerland had to up their contributions, across their borders. And in the meantime, the man picked to manage a clever plan to keep costs down, and convince He proposed a two stage "missing magnet scheme", where 33% of This would lower the total energy output from 14 to 10 TeV, Germany ended up agreeing to the missing magnet proposal, By mid 1995 Japan had signed on to CERN as a non-member, This basically means you contribute money and scientists to CERN, but This would soon be followed by contributions from Canada, contribute a component to the detectors. And in 1997, Bill Clinton finally did what back in '87. The United States signed onto CERN as an observer million. The LHC now had the money to go all out. It'd be built in just one stage, with all its magnets, with a target end date The total cost? 3.7 billion Swiss Francs, or $4 billion US dollars. Now that's a much easier pill to swallow Of course, things didn't go as smoothly Again, just like the SSC, the most expensive and troublesome part of Specifically, 1232 superconducting dipoles. They would need to be operated at 1.9K, and strong fields of 8T, surpassing the SSC's decade. For this reason, among others, a review of were nearly 850 million Francs over budget, which is almost The council members of CERN were incredulous, and ordered a management review. Many feared that Evans, with his one-on-one, small picture management style would be fired. However, the review team acknowledged that understood the project at a deep technical so he was allowed to stay on. It's hard not to draw comparisons to Maury If he had stayed on as project manager, he may Instead, the SSC had seen a revolving door of 6 separate months at a time. It also helped that unlike the SSC, which cost overruns, CERN did. Their software program tracked everything subsystems, down to individual components, CERN had a hand in creating. So when politicians came knocking with budget exactly where the problems were. Lyndon Evans would see the project through completion in 2008. There were delays, sure, but the LHC is possibly instrument in existence. The fact that this got done at all is a testament the cooperation of thousands of scientists, nations. Maybe you remember the day the LHC came online But you probably don't remember that 9 days later, informing him of a near disaster. Multiple magnets had quenched, I.E., faulty and the magnets were no longer superconducting. The melted connections caused a huge spark, releasing nearly six tons of helium gas. In the investigation that followed it was about 80 of the 10,000 electrical connections Evans and the rest of CERN had a difficult Option A: They could do a partial quick and data, but they wouldn't be able to operate at max Option B: Do a full repair, pushing back experiments They decided that there had been enough waiting. "It was time to do some physics". They did the partial repairs and the LHC finally on November 23rd, 2009. The LHC was running at half its design energy, but its luminosity was garbage. The initial repairs had made the LHC functional but it would take multiple years of calibration With the LHC temporarily out of commission, Now you would think by this point that American fate as a sidekick to CERN, but not quite so. SLAC had found the tau neutrino in the year and Fermilab Tevatron eventually did get its And in the intervening years there had been some Higgs particle at a much smaller mass than first anticipated. Masses small enough that even the much weaker Tevatron had a shot at finding the Higgs before And so for nearly a decade they struggled and struggled, because their luminosity was So far all they had managed to do was help narrow the search region, crossing And they weren't just racing CERN, they were also racing a deadline. The Tevatron was scheduled to be permanently September of 2011. The 2008 financial crash had thrown the entire and particle physics wasn't exactly on the Despite this Fermilab scientists campaigned for $180 million and they were willing to cut back on the rest But Secretary Steven Chu had different priorities for the precedence. The Tevatron shut down as scheduled in September They knew it was a longshot, and they didn't know if they would actually But they at least wanted to try. And, with that, it was the end of an era. Cornell and SLAC both shut down their colliders leaving only Brookhaven with the last major Another factor in CERN's favour here was Computing power in the 2010s was leagues ahead of computing power in the 2000s. And when your machine spits out 300 Gb of second that makes a huge difference. Purely from a data crunching perspective CERN if not years. A decade head start with the SSC may really During this period rumours and false alarms But all they could say confidently, was the GeV. According to the standard model, that left 145 GeV. As 2011 turned into 2012, that region narrowed. 116-130 GeV. As thousands of scientists poured over months of data, a spike began to emerge. 4 separate experiments were saying something was appearing at 125 GeV. For some scientists, this all but confirmed The statistics were crunched, and that the chances that this was This was it. The first major discovery of the LHC. A particle that was consistent with the Higgs Leon Lederman, who I've been incorrectly book The God Particle in 1993, as a way to drum up public which was cancelled just months later. In 2006 he released a 2nd edition of his book, and he added a preface, acknowledging that relied on a non-existent collider. And yet, it was just shy of 2 years before would be up and running. "This new instrument will not be surrounded in Walks-a-hachie, but will be located in rib restaurants but more fondue, and is easier to spell and After days of cautious internal celebration, the director of CERN that they had found the Higgs Boson. They announced it on the 4th of July.