Located on the borders of the continent which gave it its name, South Africa is a country of many contrasts. The rainbow nation dreamed of by Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu is still only a distant mirage. Here more than elsewhere in Africa, inequalities are obvious. 25 years after the end of apartheid, South African society is still in the process of reconstruction. Whites and blacks rub shoulders more than they mix within a two-speed society. As big as twice the size of France, the territory extends from the Cape of Good Hope to the border with Zimbabwe. Over nearly 2000km, it reveals landscapes of unique beauty. Thanks to numerous natural resources and modern agricultural operations, the country is one of the economic leaders on the continent. But this development is threatened by climate attacks. From north to south, the territory is regularly confronted with floods. They hit first and foremost the poorest populations in the country. "It's not easy living here, we really need help now." Floods on one side, drought on the other. A few hundred kilometers away, it is the lack of water that is taking corn producers by the throat. "Look what is happening here, the plant is very small, it is not usual to have such small ears" Further south, at the beginning of 2015, faced with record temperatures during the summer, these are the heights of Cape Town which are set ablaze. "We're going to see more very hot days and the fires we've had recently happened on some of the hottest days on record. With more scorching days like these, we are at risk of more fires. >> With an increase in its average temperature which could reach 2 to 3 degrees according to IPCC experts, South Africa, whose population has almost doubled since the end of apartheid, must prepare to better cope with these climatic hazards. In the southwest of the country, the city of Cape Town is considered by Afrikaners as the mother city of South Africa. It is here that the Boers, the first European settlers, landed in the 17th century. Dominated by Table Mountain, it offers spectacular scenery and is a popular destination for tourists. But behind this postcard, the city reveals another face. Twenty minutes by car from the city center lie the "Cape Flats", a vast plain which concentrates most of the city's townships. Ghettos inherited from the apartheid regime. Fed by an uninterrupted flow of migrants coming from the countryside to look for work, they gradually became sprawling slums divided into a multitude of neighborhoods. 2 million people live there. The equivalent of the population of Paris. Joyce arrived in Kayelitsha in 2004. Her job: maintaining the common toilets which she carries out using one of the few water points in the neighborhood. "You see all the toilets are here, I have to start here. >> Installed in 2013, these toilets bring a little dignity to a population who, without running water or drainage, are faced with numerous health problems. Hygiene conditions which deteriorate seriously in the event of flooding. Almost every year, during the winter, the same scenario repeats itself with more or less intensity. This month of June 2014, torrential rains fell on the city. 8000 inhabitants found themselves affected. Dirty and polluted water then stagnates for several days in the neighborhood, with its corollary of mosquitoes and diseases. In the Xhosa language, Khayelitsha means &quot;new home&quot;. Like many, Joyce's is just a tin shack where her mother, her daughter and her two granddaughters live. "This is where I sleep with my children, and this is where we cook. >> In winter, when heavy rains fall, the family's situation becomes unbearable. "The water has already risen up here. Sometimes it starts to rain a lot, water rushes all over the house. This is where my mother sleeps. Water seeps in from all sides, it passes through this door. When she comes home you can hardly get through and you don't know what to do with all this water because there is so much of it. You try to bail out, clean up as best you can. You are obliged to limit the damage, you cannot leave everything in this state but most of the time, you have to wait for the water to drain. >> "When this happens, they take us to the community hall. There, they don't even give us dry clothes even though ours are soaked. Here it is, the community room. But this year, it will not be able to shelter the population in the event of flooding. In Khayelitsha, anger is brewing. Everything can quickly change. A few weeks before our filming, a demonstration by residents demanding decent housing degenerated. As a protest, the rioters set fire to the community hall. During the last floods, Joyce and his family remained sheltered there for up to three consecutive months. This year, they just have to hope that the rains spare them. "Look outside there is no room, we only have enough space to dry our laundry. Sometimes there are a lot of mosquitoes, that's why I wear a calamine mask, it's to protect me. >> "It's not easy living here, we really need help now." Joyce's situation is far from an isolated case. Every year, 10,000 new tin houses are built throughout Cape Town's townships, most often in flood zones. Faced with this other face of the city, municipal services admit to being a little overwhelmed by the scale of the task. "Land is a huge issue for settling this flow of newcomers , and because of this we are under pressure to manage the issue of flooding because people are settling on land that is not habitable. The challenge is to secure open spaces because during the summer, as these places are dry, people come to settle there even though we had sometimes had them evacuated." Preventing access to these vulnerable spaces is therefore the town hall's priority. In the meantime, risk management teams are doing what they can to help people. That day, we follow one of them in a slum, in the middle of an awareness campaign. "Winter is coming so we come to communities like here, with this little guide which explains how to protect yourself from flooding with a few common sense measures. >> "For example, when it rains you should not let children play outside, the water is dirty and perhaps contaminated. >> "People should also remember to wash their hands regularly to avoid illness. And there we show that they can easily fight against flooding by raising their ground to stay dry. >> Some good reflexes which will perhaps allow the population to spend the winter more safely but which are not always enough to reassure them. "Every year the rains return, it worries us. When water arrives here, it stagnates and becomes polluted. This is where we need you to come and drain it all and plug the holes. - Ok, but it's also up to you to maintain the drains. You need to make sure that they are not blocked as winter approaches. These are simple things that you and I can do, we don't need a lot of money to do that and then when we have funding we can consider projects. >> The town hall is already financing projects. A stone's throw away, in a neighboring shantytown, construction machines are finishing the embankment of a flood zone. Work which cost EUR50,000 and which according to their manager should help protect residents from stagnant water. "As you can see, we raised this platform quite high to keep people out of the water. We also tilted it slightly so that water will drain away in heavy rain. On paper it is effective but we will have to pass the test of the first rains to be sure. >> To better judge a possible improvement, here is what this area generally looks like after heavy rain. "It was like that, no access road. People practically could not leave their homes to go to work. >> Stanford is the leader of this community, he was chosen by the residents of the slum to represent them to the authorities. For him this work is essential. " As you can see there is water here, everything was like this before. This is where we have our tap. >> "If you want to pass you have to jump, that's why we put tires on." This area should be backfilled soon. In the meantime this water point is still used daily. Three days later, we are back in the slum. In this month of April, a downpour reminds us of the imminent arrival of the rainy season. A big move is brewing. The houses located along the road will be moved back around a hundred meters to be installed on the new land. "Whose cabin is this? And this one? - To Radebe - To Radebe, ah ok. >> Stanford must ensure that the 15 families living here will have left the area before the first heavy rains. "They are dismantling this cabin, once that is done it will be loaded onto a truck and we can rebuild it there." Neighbors and friends come to lend them a hand. It barely takes them half an hour to dismantle these makeshift habitats. Stanford ensures that everyone is seated in their assigned location. "Where is your location?" - On the other side - Where is the other side? But there's more room there! - Yes, but those who wrote my name on the list, they told me that I had to go there. - Who said that? But we are the ones who decide and do the official registration of people. Come on, show me. >> "Here, look, this is your new location. >> "Now this gentleman will receive his equipment. >> Like this old man, each family receives 3 beams and 3 pieces of sheet metal provided by the town hall. Barely enough to improve his house. Stanford is aware of this, this move can only be a temporary solution. He is waiting for a lasting solution for the members of his community: permanent housing, elsewhere, in a safer area. A project promised by the State but which has still not seen the light of day. "We were supposed to wait 18 months for land to be allocated to us but in the end the project was canceled, the land was still not available. We are now told that luckily, within 12 months, this housing project should see the light of day. But we remain positive, we will eventually have these accommodations. >> If this project emerges, this flood zone will be deserted again, but for how long? Well beyond the townships of Cape Town, flooding represents a scourge for the entire country. In Pretoria, the capital, national weather engineers keep a constant eye on their monitoring screens, on the lookout for a possible extreme event. "South Africa is located between an arid climatic region and a semi-arid region, which means that we experience sometimes very severe droughts but also serious floods. So we are subject to a whole range of climatic events" While the rainy season ends in the northeast, it is just beginning in the southwest. A contrast that offers no respite to the country. "We sometimes have tropical cyclones that come in from the Indian Ocean and hit the east coast. But these cyclones also penetrate inland and cause many problems in the northeast, particularly in Limpopo province. For example in the Lephalale area here, there is a bridge which has already been rebuilt twice already following floods and which was destroyed again. >> To reach Lephalale, you have to travel 300 kilometers north from Pretoria. We are on the foothills of the Waterberg where many rivers flow. They all meet here... At the Mokolo dam. With its 49 meters high, it retains nearly 15 million cubic meters of water... Completed in 1980, it makes it possible to irrigate the fields and water the livestock... 87% of this reserve is used for agriculture and breeding... 19.04 A sector which employs nearly a third of the active population... But in certain years, torrential rains cause the waters of the dam to overflow. Latest episode to date, in spring 2014... 3 weeks of floods... And thousands of victims... including the residents of this hotel complex run by Micha Burger. "The water reached almost there... At the height of the flood" It was then impossible to cross the complex... For a week, the boat was the only means of transport for customers...as well as for employees. "You can see the flood mark there which indicates the level reached in 1996. It is exactly the same level as in 2014" The hotel has around thirty rooms, they all find themselves completely submerged. "Here is the Mogol River. You can't see very well from here but on the other side of the bank, you can see sandbanks. The water started to seep through here around 8 a.m., and broke through the barrier. - It's a very vulnerable place here... - Yes, we can say that! ...But I think we're pretty safe, I don't think it could be strong enough to endanger our lives. " - There's nothing you can do to avoid this? - No, we can't do anything against Mother Nature." "Even if we build a high wall like that, the water will go around that side so it will be worse." It's hard to imagine that the Mogol River, so calm that day, could flood the entire region... However, this is not the first time that it has caused such a disaster... At the entrance to the town of Lephalale, this panel recalls the most dramatic episodes... 21.16 Every 20 years, on average, floods make the headlines in this small town of 65,000 inhabitants. Leonie Kruger is the editor-in-chief of the Mogol Post, a weekly magazine in the Afrikan language... She settled in Lephalale in 2007... "It was opposite the town hall and the title says "Under the waters &quot;. And if you look inside, there are photos of damaged businesses, there were trees in the middle of the street... - Is this the worst event you've ever experienced? - Yes, since I lived in Lephalale it's the worst. I have never had such an experience." Its journalists took thousands of photos, everywhere... in town and elsewhere in the region. 3000 people affected, around ten bridges and roads destroyed by the floods. "It was the farmers who suffered the most. Because the roads were not good and they could not get out of their houses." "This is a farm about fifteen kilometers from the city. We went there to help people. But the farmer told us: "No, there are my goats. 15 goats on a hill next to the house." So the workers took them and put them in the 4x4. And chickens too. There were 15 in the back of this car. And the water was going to take us away. It was like Noah's ark.....I felt a bit like Noah." Afrikaners today represent 10% of the population of Lephalale... The vast majority are farmers... During these long weeks of the flood, dozens of them, living outside the town, were cut off from the world. Only helicopters can supply them. "Here it was the main crisis center. We distribute the food to others from here. Everything was sent by helicopter and boat: gasoline, diesel, food. And we were isolated for three weeks. It was an adventure. - Did the authorities help you? - No, we had no help, we could only count on the private sector. - Why is that? - I don't know, I can't answer your question. The people in the private sector have really done a fantastic job. >> Despite the real risks of flooding, all along the Mogol River, new constructions are springing up like mushrooms. Lodges, hotels or even new residences. 24.29 They are installed in marshy areas where it is nevertheless forbidden to build. "We control everything that develops around the city. But the development of lodges depends on their owners. Most of these farms are more than 700 hectares. The lodges are built right in the middle of land where the river flows. Everyone knows that the river passes through here, that's why they build there, because the view is beautiful. But they do not take into account the risk of flooding. >> The development of Lephalale does not seem ready to stop. In around ten years, with the construction of the Medupi power station, the city saw its population triple. In 2015, the floods seem to have spared the Limpopo Province. 25.29 The lack of summer rain could even herald a winter drought. A large climatic variation usual for this semi-arid region. 400 km away, drought is already a reality for Afrikaner farmers. Direction, the Free State, the Free State, the former stronghold of the Boers. Over the course of the 19th century, these peasant settlers from Europe gradually established themselves on these fertile plains which in their eyes represented the Promised Land. This agricultural region is today the country's grain basket. Wheat and soya are grown there. South Africa is even the continent's leading producer of corn. But the 2015 harvest promises to be the worst since 1992. Hannes Haasbroek owns 2,000 hectares of corn in the Bothaville region. In a few weeks, he will begin his harvest, without any great illusions. "Look what's happening here, the plant is very small, it's not usual to have such small ears" "They shouldn't be like this anymore. This one should weigh 150 grams, normally we should have 200-220 grams, so even this cob is below average and if you look around you, you see that the harvest is looking very poor. >> The summer of 2015 put his fields to the test with 22 consecutive days of scorching temperatures: up to 45degC. "It's sad. You can look very far over the fields. But normally, the corns are very high, they would hide your view, this is a very bad sign. >> " We can't irrigate, we don't have water, and it's too expensive to irrigate because of high electricity prices. Our crops are totally dependent on rainwater. >> The figures speak for themselves. Hannes measured 220mm of rain over the season, half as much as for a normal year. "You see there is a big disparity depending on the plots. In some areas it rained a little while in others the level is well below normal precipitation. If you go a little further, the plants are in much better condition. You see how here, this is a normal height." Some scattered rain which doesn't change much. For Hannes, it is already time to take stock. "This year, my losses will amount to at least between EUR150 and EUR225 per hectare." In total, this drought cost him EUR450,000 . More than a third of its turnover. "You bear these losses year after year for the next 3 or 4 harvests and if you are faced with another bad season you don't make it, you have to sell your farm or do something else. >> If it can withstand the consequences of such a drought, many farmers must throw in the towel. On Hannes' advice, we go to meet one of his neighbors. "Look at this, it's tiny. >> Willie Prinsloo expects colossal losses this year. Faced with this situation, he is preparing to make a radical decision. "I really wonder if I should stay here in South Africa. I went to Canada to visit South African farmers living there. Their working conditions are much better. For every dollar you invest, the Canadian government invests the same amount. For example, if you invest 6 dollars, it puts the same and after 5 years, if you have difficulties, a stability fund intervenes to help you. >> Enough to reassure Willie who has less and less confidence in the future that his country has in store for him. Willie cannot imagine this exile in Canada alone. He wants to leave with his four children, all involved in the family business. "Hey guys, how are you?" >> On the farm, the teams are busy preparing for the harvest. These gleaming machines will soon be ready to harvest. Recent investments which make his son-in-law, Jurgen, doubt the advisability of exile on the other side of the world. "It's very far from here, you have to move everything. Starting a farm from scratch isn't easy. So we're really trying to find the best opportunity. What we're primarily looking for is more regular rain, more stable prices and that sort of thing. For the moment we are happy here but we continue to search. Despite his reluctance, Jurgen will go with the whole family to Canada this summer to explore what could well become their new El Dorado. If farmers are in full doubt today, it is because the drought is coming at the worst time. Their situation becomes more and more difficult. According to one of the main agricultural unions, around sixty white farmers are murdered each year in the country. Security has become an obsession, most live barricaded in their farm, well protected behind their electric fence. But even more, their main concern is the upcoming agrarian reform. Promised after apartheid by President Mandela, it aims to redistribute 30% of white land to the black population. 33.11 A population hitherto confined to the roles of agricultural workers, and which still lives apart, on the fringes of large farms. In 25 years, almost nothing has changed, white people still represent 85% of the country's 36,000 farmers. Based in Pretoria, Jannie de Villiers heads the Grain SA union, which defends the interests of all grain farmers in the country, white and black. Despite this historic drought, he expects little help from the government. "We are clearly going to have to address the government, I don't have many illusions, I don't think we will get a lot of help but the government will perhaps help the new entrants, these black farmers who begin their activity. There are more and more of them but for the majority it is very difficult because they do not have cash from previous harvests, they are struggling. So we hope that the government will help us, perhaps by guaranteeing the losses and amortizing them over the following years. This kind of thing has happened in the past so maybe we will see it again." If they are the first victims of the drought, farmers are not the only ones. At the end of the chain there is the consumer. Across the country, white corn production fell by a third in 2015, a real threat to the populations who depend on it. "We need a lot of corn for food stability reasons, it is a staple food here and this year we are not even going to produce 70% of our needs so we are going to have to import. And as all of southern Africa has experienced a drought, maize will become very expensive. Corn is clearly under threat, there are many models which show that certain regions will no longer be able to produce it due to rising temperatures. This is a very big issue for the country." In 2015, to meet local demand, the country imported corn, causing prices to rise by 30%. Faced with the threat of more frequent droughts, South Africa finds itself faced with a major challenge: adapting its agricultural model. A transformation which could involve crop rotation, or even a gradual relocation of farms to more suitable land. Return to Cape Town. The region is home to vegetation that grows nowhere else in the world: fynbos. Fynbos, an Afrikan word which means "delicate bush" At first glance, this bush is nothing exceptional. 36.04 To unravel its mysteries, we need the eyes of an expert. Sean Privett is a botanist. For more than 20 years, he has passionately studied this ecosystem which contains many treasures. But today he is worried because this unique vegetation is, according to him, threatened. by climate warming. That morning, we followed him on a study mission. In this environment, Sean is never safe from a new surprise. "Look at this. Lilly come see. It is a Mystropetalum thomii. It's a parasitic plant, it lives all year round underground and you only see it when it flowers, here are the flowers. In 20 years this is maybe the second time I've seen this plant, it's very exciting, and that's the magic of fynbos, you go for a walk and you always find something different. >> After so many years of observation, Sean never ceases to marvel at the fynbos. A little further on, a Royal Protea. This flower has become one of the emblems of the country. Of the 9,500 plant species in the fynbos, 70% are endemic. "Every step is a discovery. It changes all the time, we have been studying the flora here for 20 years and we have found 785 different species of plants in a very small area, 2000 hectares. 6 of them were completely unknown and we have 7 endemic species in this reserve alone, which do not exist anywhere else in the world. >> To better understand the particularity of fynbos, we need to take a step back. The Cape region alone constitutes one of the 6 major floral regions of the world. In an area the size of Portugal, it has a density of species 3 times greater than that of the Amazon forest. A flora of such remarkable density and diversity that UNESCO has classified it as a world heritage site. This concentration of rare plants is a wealth for the country. According to a South African university study, fynbos brings in nearly 750 million euros each year. Thanks to tourism and especially the marketing of some of its plants such as rooibos, which resembles a kind of red tea. For Sean, this vegetation is today threatened by a drier climate. 39.09 But only field work can confirm this. 20 years ago, Sean analyzed 50 different plots scattered throughout the reserve, each containing very different species of plants. This is one of those plots he is looking for. "Do you see it? - No, I'll go look quickly, it shouldn't be far from the road. >> Despite a map and a good memory, it's not easy to find your bearings. "Where is this thing?" >> In 1996, Sean did not have a GPS. "Here's the one I'm looking for. Number 20." The stake used to mark the plot is no longer visible today. "They're not easy to find. Sometimes the stake falls to the ground. If he stays upright he is easy to spot. It's likely that a baboon or an animal caused it to fall. >> After a good quarter of an hour of searching, Sean found his study site. "Ah Lilly, I found it. >> To study it, Sean surveys the ground like an archaeologist. "You want a sardine Lilly?" >> From the stake, he installs a net, orienting it towards the southwest, exactly like 20 years ago. A net divided into 10 equal squares which allows him to evaluate the place occupied by each species. "This one you need to pull a little more. >> "We look species by species, we identify everything that is found in the 50m2 area that we have demarcated and we measure the percentage of surface area occupied by each species. Then we compare with the plants observed 20 years ago to see if there have been changes both in terms of species and number of plants. >> &quot;Let's see what we find.&quot; One plant interests Sean in particular: methalesia. "If you look closely at the leaves, you see that they are very narrow and spiral- shaped . And if you look under the leaves, you see sort of little white hairs. It's a whole mechanism to prevent water loss, to limit sweating. So these plants are adapted to grow during the winter which is humid here and to keep this humidity for the long, very dry summer months. >> But in recent years Sean has noticed that methalesias have to die at the end of summer. 20 years ago the plant covered 5% of this plot. What about today? "There's this one, this one... they would hold very easily in a square. - So this clearly represents less than 5%, I would say more like 1%. So it makes a big difference if we compare with 20 years ago." Even if it is too early to draw conclusions, this drop confirms his fears. "We've had some very hot and dry years and we've seen plant mortality, and that's quite unusual in the fynbos. When you start seeing these plants that have adapted for millions of years to this climate, when you see them dying towards the end of summer, then you wonder what's going on. >> The Cape region experienced the hottest temperatures on record during the austral summer of 2015. 43.24 Up to 42degC recorded in places. If these extreme temperatures threaten the survival of Fynbos, they above all represent an increased risk of fires starting. A 2-hour drive away, Table Mountain National Park, which dominates Cape Town, is just recovering from a gigantic fire. "A belt of fire which has already burned thousands of hectares of vegetation since Sunday. The authorities believe that it will take several days to put out the flames due to the high temperatures which reached 35deg today. March 2015, fanned by violent winds, the fire raged for three days despite the determination of 2000 firefighters. 44.17 The national park burns on thousands of hectares. Table Mountain National Park is now nothing more than a vast lunar land. It is closed to the public. Only around ten rangers patrol there. Peter Smith and Candice Freeman come to make sure no curious people wander around. The area can be dangerous, they themselves are careful where they step. " This is a hole, which has been covered by ash. If I walk there you see that my foot sinks. It was a young tree that burned. If you fall here you could hurt yourself, you could even kill yourself. >> A ranger in the park for 25 years, Peter had never experienced such desolation. "At first I didn't believe what I saw, then I said to myself it's going to be okay, they're going to be able to control it but after 2 or 3 days, you realize that... wow... Something is missing. >> If Peter experiences this fire as a tragedy, for Carly Cowell, on the other hand, a botanist from the park, it is a real research opportunity. In just three weeks, surprise, the vegetation shows signs of returning to life. This is what she came to see. "I just look to see if there are new species, new shoots that are born after the fire, and I try to see which areas could be affected by an erosion phenomenon. >> "A fire daisy... There are lots of them. - Yes, there are many. - Life is already back, clearly, there are lots like this, if you pay attention you will see little orange spots, these are among the first to come out. >> If the fire ravaged this scrubby vegetation, many species took advantage of it for their survival. 46.55 Like this plant from the protea family. "The seeds are contained in these apples which normally remain closed. When exposed to fire, the apple relaxes, opens and releases its seeds. They are contained in each of these cells and it is the wind that causes them to fall. So if there was no fire, this plant would not be able to release its seeds and reproduce, while beautifying this landscape. If, like proteas, some phoenix plants are reborn from their own ashes, others simply seem immortal. "These plants resprout on their own. When fire occurs, these leaves burn but they protect the more tender leaves inside . They're always green and they're always growing, so it's a bit like a haircut, it freshens it up, what's old is burned off and what's younger grows, all that vigor is released. >> These plants have developed very particular properties which allow them to adapt to natural fires regularly triggered by lightning. For fynbos, the ideal period between two fires is approximately 15 years. "If the vegetation burns too often, the plant does not have time to grow enough to produce seeds and those that would have germinated in the ground are burned... So over time we have species that disappear, we lose species. >> Fires that are too frequent or of high intensity could therefore endanger the extraordinary biodiversity of the fynbos in the long term. But these fires are already a threat to the population of Cape Town. 48.51 With the development of the city, many residential areas were built on the hillside. During the fires of March 2015, 3 people lost their lives and 500 residents were evacuated. All over town, residents have their eyes glued to this gigantic blaze. 49.12 The worst fire in 15 years. Thanks to the firefighters, the progression of the fire was able to be contained, sometimes extremely narrowly. 49.30 Only around ten houses were destroyed. Like this 5-star lodge, which almost burned to the ground. Her manager, Melissa du Rand, watched helplessly as the place ignited from the other side of the bay where she lives. "At 2 a.m. when the phone rang, I opened my eyes and looked at the mountain and realized that this fire was bigger than anything we had seen so far. It's truly the strongest thing I've ever experienced. That evening, winds of 50km/h blew across Cape Town. The flames only took 15 minutes to rush down the mountain to the lodge. "Thankfully none of us or our guests were injured in the fire but unfortunately we lost 70% of the lodge. So there we enter through what was the main door, it was a superb wooden door with a beautiful stone wall like this, it's the only thing that remained standing in fact. Entering here you came to a stunning living room with a beautiful silver table in the entryway. The Tintswalo Atlantic was truly a wonderful boutique hotel to stay. >> Since 2008, Melissa has devoted herself entirely to the management of this luxurious setting, presented here in a promotional clip... In its green setting, it did not resist the flames for long. Despite the rapid intervention of the emergency services, it was too late to save the hotel. Barely a month after the fire, Melissa is eager to rebuild the lodge identically, in the same place, whatever the risks involved. "I think it's the downside of living at the foot of this mountain so rich in fynbos. I can't say I'm afraid of fire but now I know the power of fire and I know that whatever you do, from a hotelier's point of view, you have to make sure your evacuation procedures are in place . But no, I'm not afraid of fires, you can't when you live in this beautiful region." Fires whose number could increase considerably according to the outlook of the International Group of Climate Experts which fears an increase in heat waves in summer. From drought to flood, South Africa shows its fragilities. Those of a rapidly developing country whose growth is strongly linked to the wealth of its territory. Whether it is scarce or too abundant, water is proving to be the crucial issue for the years to come. Undermined by xenophobic tensions, different communities must today unite to fight against the climate changes that threaten them. At the risk of seeing this multi-racial society dreamed of by Nelson Mandela implode.