- So it's a lot sturdier than the pans, they go boing. (upbeat music) - We love our kitchen gear and gadgets, but over time wear and tear - You can learn to fix or or worn out gear instead of tossing it. - Hannah and I are gonna show you some of our favorite solutions of your gear so you can and keep that gear out of the landfill. - First up, Lisa. (upbeat music continues) - First up, restoring the surface of a stainless steel skillet. We love our favorite It is a great pan for browning but it is not a non-stick pan by any stretch of the imagination. We've had people call us &quot;I can't get my pan clean. Is it ruined?&quot; And the answer is &quot;No, This stainless steel is but what happens is when it breaks down into and stick to this metal. So even when you use soap and water and you give it a little you'll get the food out, but not that brownish cast that you can get inside and To get that really nice we have Bar Keeper's Friend. It's a powder and it was A chemist was cooking some and noticed that it made the And rhubarb contains oxalic acid. And that is the key ingredient It contains three things, oxalic acid a mineral abrasive, and surfactants. Surfactants are what are commonly in soap. To get your pen nice and clean, first you wanna get it wet and then you wanna sprinkle with Bar Keeper's Friend. And then use either a scrub brush or the abrasive scrubby side of your sponge and just You're gonna have a in no time at all. We love it for all kinds and really scrubbing tough This pan is not ruined. It is good as new. Next up maintaining your coffee maker. There's two things that you really have to pay attention to with your coffee maker maintenance. One is coffee residue and really turn rancid and make everything taste The other thing is a hidden killer. Good tasting water has minerals in it that will deposit gradually on the inner tubes of When they're fully blocked, That machine is dead. Descaling is gonna loosen If this coffee maker starts slowing down, that's when it's building up scale and those arteries are and is more and more narrow If that's happening to So here's one trick that we have been told This is a pack of a hundred filters. That's gonna be a couple of months maybe if you're making a pot a day. When that a hundred Or make a reminder on your phone that every couple months you or anytime you see it slowing down. Some coffee makers, they will tell you to use white vinegar and water and run that That works only to a certain extent and it can be kind of corrosive to the tubes inside your machine. It's too acidic, it's and it's not really fully effective. What's much better is to actually get a product designed for this. This is one by Urnex. It's called Descal. It works really well. You get a little box of The instructions are on here. It's very simple. 32 ounces of cold water. Pour it in, no coffee, no filters. Run it through the machine, and then when the carafe is full, and it's done, pour that out. Then run two to three cycles more. Then you fill this tank with clean water and run That will just flush out It will take away any remaining scale that's been loosened by the powder, and this coffee maker will be ready to keep making Let's talk about cleaning the carafe. Your carafe can get pretty You just really wanna get that nice and sparkling clean again so it doesn't give your We have a couple of great tricks for that. First, our good old bottle brush. This is our favorite from Quickie. Works really well but to get that brownish residue off, sometimes that's not enough. You just want to use a dishwasher pod. If it's powder, you wanna cut it in half. Or if it's a liquid one, you wanna slice it open and put it in with hot water. Leave it overnight and in the it will be nice and clean and shiny and silver again We love Dutch ovens in the Test Kitchen. We use them for tons of but we also really love This cream color is great because it puts light into the pot. You can judge the color of browning foods so you That said, that light colored interior can get really discolored. So what do you do? So this pot is well used a little bit worn, but it's still clean. It has a very long life ahead of it. If you've got a lot of browning and that enamel has turned quite brown, and you can't wash it off we have a few tricks for you. One is a bleach solution, one part bleach to three parts water. And you're gonna mix that and pour it in. Leave it overnight and in the morning, it will lift off all that brown color. It will look beautiful. Nice and light and ready to go. The other thing that can happen with your Dutch oven is that and burnt the heck out Don't worry about it. You have not ruined your Dutch oven. You're gonna fill it put it on the stove. You're gonna let it boil Use a wooden spoon and just scrape away at anything that you can get at. After two or three minutes, pour that water down the drain. Let it sit for a couple of minutes because it will continue to soften the food that it's stuck on. You'll be able to wash it with just a sponge and hot soapy water and it will be nice and We have dozens of stand for all of our test cooks to And we have to take care of them all the time just to There's a few things we've learned about maintaining and just taking care of your stand mixer to give First, you wanna run it pretty frequently. If you'll keep your sand and use it once a year, you You may find oil dripping and hasn't been used in months and months. That's because the motor up It has grease in it, which is a thick black grease. It's food safe. But if it's undisturbed for too long, you can actually see it leaking out. Even if you're not going to use it take it out every couple months, plug it in and turn it on, and run it for about two minutes. You wanna get that grease up into the gears and moving around because what will happen is it will drip out, and They will grind and then that will be not Two, if you've noticed your stand mixer isn't reaching the bottom there's a really easy fix for So this is your beater blade. And how low or high it sits in the bowl and how close it gets to the bottom is really of the ingredients. You're constantly turning off the machine, scraping and turning it back on. It's gonna make everything take longer. It's not gonna mix So look for machines like the KitchenAid and a few others that we've tested that have beater adjustability. And here's how you do it. What you need is the a dime, and a screwdriver, Open it up and look for a screw. The manual always will And that is going to change So you can make it go And one way to know if is to use a dime that You put that dime in there it should move it slightly on every complete circuit of the bowl. Not constantly. Constantly is too close. And if it's not touching the dime at all, it's too high and you're You're not gonna move Move it like a quarter turn and check. If the beater blade is way too high you will find that you It won't fully lock down. It'll wobble so you Okay, so now you've seen and tricks for keeping your Let's go to Hannah for (upbeat music) - We love making great pizza at home and the best entry point to professional style pizza at home is it pizza steel, or pizza stone? Now we get tons of questions First of all, can you leave a pizza steel or stone in your oven? Yes, you can. It will act as a ballast. So your oven will be a a little slower to cool down. So if you're baking you might wanna take it out but otherwise it's fine to leave in there. Second, which is better, steel or stone? We have a slight preference for steels. It throws its heat a little resulting in really tender Now onto cleaning. We get a ton of questions about these because if they can kind of get looking We tested both of these for staining and you really can't get the stains out. So what you wanna do is You can use a bench scraper You really do have to preheat these for an hour in the oven After an hour at 500 degrees, these are gonna be totally sanitized. So you don't have to worry about it being unsanitary in any way. But you do wanna scrape the schmutz off, so you don't get those burnt bits onto your pizza. Because these are two different materials, you have to care for them slightly differently beyond the scraping. So first here, the carbon steel. You essentially wanna treat this like a carbon steel pan in some ways. If you do get it wet, you wanna make sure to dry I found a little bit You can clear away anything and oil it a little bit, just like you oil a carbon steel pan. This will just help seal up that surface. You know you're not looking for the same non-stick abilities. You don't need to like warm This is more of an an especially if you notice that your surface is Now over here it's ceramic. It's a porous material. So it will suck up things So you never wanna use soap on it because it will actually hold onto that soap and can transfer And also you wanna really be careful around water because it sucks it up. If you put a wet pizza stone I've done this. It's a total bummer. When in doubt, follow these tips for pizza steals and stones. You'll be making some great Another piece of equipment we get tons of questions about is the sheet pan or the This is probably one of our most core, most beloved pieces of equipment, but problems do arise. For example, they can get The other major issue we see is warping. Now you can see this pan in This is actually our and I wanna make sure I get All metal baking sheet but if you choose the right brand, it will warp less. So one reason why Nordic is it has this rolled reinforced edge. So it's a lot sturdier than every time you put them in the oven. This will definitely warp less, but it is still possible for it to warp. So first up, staining or darkening, what do you do about that? I'm here to tell you It's actually not a bad thing So we noticed this that the darker stain pans seem So we ran a little experiment and attached temperature trackers to one brand new shiny sheet pan and one dark stained sheet pan. We put them into ovens that were set to the exact same temperature and recorded their The darker pan was at 400 degrees whereas the lighter So it wasn't all in our heads. Darker pans really do heat faster, and that means it will more quickly too. You'll actually get more There are a couple things you First of all, don't put a Let the pan cool down before washing it so it can Second of all, try to cover the surface of the pan with food. If there are bare spots on the pan, those are going to get hotter faster than the parts where the food are, which can cause the pan to contract. Now, if you don't have across the surface of the This is a half sheet pan size. We absolutely love the and the eighth of a sheet pan size of the same Nordic Wear pan. I honestly use the quarter sheet pan more than I use the big one. I use it all the time and love it. So what can you do if your So what you wanna do is in a 200 degree oven for about 10 minutes until Warming the pan up makes the metal a little which allows you to return it to its original shape more easily. Then you wanna lay it upside down on a towel on top of a concrete Lay another towel on top to And then gently pound it with a mallet until the pan evens out. So many people throw these away if they're stained or warped. If you do have to buy a new pan, get a sturdy one like our It'll last a lot longer and Next up, caring for wooden kitchen gear wooden spoons and gear Now let's start with cutting boards. Moisture is the enemy of wooden The more water they absorb, the more prone they are to warping, which can lead them to splitting Keep moisture away from Make sure to dry it and store it in a place where it gets some good air circulation to keep your board looking great and to prevent it from splitting, your wood and bamboo cutting board should be seasoned before use. Now some of them will arrive seasoned, but it's no problem if yours doesn't. We like to use spoon a mixture of bees' wax and mineral oil that you can either make Using a clean cloth, make sure you buff your back sides, feet if there're Cover the whole thing completely. Then let it sit for 24 hours Sometimes one coat is off your board. Sometimes you need several coats. If you drip water on top of that's how you know your If the water still sinks in, you're gonna wanna apply You do wanna stay away from or a cooking oil to oil your because they can go rancid and your board will start to smell. Mineral oil or board butter, spoon butter with mineral oil in it won't go rancid in the same way. This board I have in You can see knife marks here. Anytime you see your board it's a good idea to oil it. I have right here our which you can see is in beautiful shape. Look at this luster. This is an absolutely gorgeous board. It has a unique quality, Teak has tectoquinones in it, which means it actually oils itself. You still wanna oil your board, but because of those tectoquinones, boards made from teak Now let's talk about wooden spoons. I have three quite dry This is another product we We've heard of some folks talk about boiling wooden spoons to We really wanna caution This is a natural substance. If you boil it, you're going to expand it. Then as it dries out, This is gonna lead to further What we do recommend is washing and then drying them after use. If you notice that your wooden spoon is starting to look a little dry, you can also coat it with mineral oil or board butter and leave and then remove the excess in the morning just to prevent cracking and keep your wooden spoon With these tips, we hope to equipment up and running and looking its best for a long time to come. - For more information, or go to america'stestkitchen.com. - Do you have any cleaning care Let us know on the comments. Make sure to like this video and hit that subscribe button (upbeat music)