I want you to open your Bible with me to Ezekiel to the door of the temple; and there was water, toward the east, for the front of the temple faced side of the temple, south of the altar.&quot; So this what's going to happen in the future. He's seeing the water is flowing towards east. Now for those east west north doesn't mean much but east is east. It actually is flowing toward the dead sea. people from HungryGen, we had a chance to actually visit Israel and when we went to visit Israel, not we get a chance to go to the dead sea and this is interesting because it's one of the most saltiest the shoreline is 1,300 below sea level. So it is of water evaporates every day. The salt content It's so salty that only bacteria can survive in there. Nothing lives there. Nothing, no fish, it, it's very difficult to drown there because have any kind of scar or any kind of a wound, it a blast, had a wonderful time and this prophetic flowing from the temple toward the east and it's flowing toward the sea when it says in here, the day, the day is coming when the Messiah is coming. revive, I believe that dead sea and it will no this today to talk about another temple that we're already built in you. We are temples of the Holy of tradition, religion and only good experiences. Spirit. This does not mean that just because we third temple built in Jerusalem. We believe that Jerusalem and the antichrist will defile that He will destroy the antichrist. He will destroy temple and He will be glorified but until that are the temple of the Holy Spirit. Our bodies are have as the temple of the Holy Spirit is to become He rebuked the Pharisees and He called them between a temple and a tomb? A tomb holds someone that is alive. God. Tombs are religious more than they love Him today. A tomb is when is when you live your life always looking back just remembering the good old days but those good everything is always in the past. Oh I remember that summer camp and in that summer camp, man the on fire for God. I read three, four, five pages of I was on fire. I led my friends to Jesus. I was a domesticated, calculated, balanced Christian. wash my tomb. I polish it so that I look good to I don't have a vision anymore. I'm not on fire with the blankets every morning meaning, I sleep don't evangelize. No, the world is evangelizing to now I sing the songs they sing and I am literally you some good old days that I had with God. You doesn't flow from tombs, stench comes out of today is not to condemn you but to quicken you best days are not when you were 16, they're is supposed to be now and you're going to come to spiritual year not your best financial year but spiritual month is best now, you will see God care of your family. God will take care of other offering. Yesterday's manna is today's maggots. manna every day but there was one principle there. serve God only on yesterday's experiences. fresh word from God regularly, burning for God on fire for God. Any fireplace that used to have we're full of fire and fire is not hype. Fire a drive to love Jesus. It's this thing that you said, he says, A fire shut up in my bones and I eyes are on fire. It's just like you know when temperature room and it's like fumes coming out of you hot. Come on somebody. We need to redefine is to be burning for Jesus. I don't want to live about what I did when I was 15 and 14 years of over my high school because God doesn't want me to live on yesterday's vision, yesterday's victories. today, new breakthrough today, fresh vision some praise right now? I want to remind you that he would have killed his son. Let me say that word, he would have killed his son. God told for three-day journey, brings his son. If Abraham ago, I don't need to have a current consistent before, I don't need to hear God today he would He says, Man shall not live by bread alone but doesn't say proceeded. Proceeds meaning, God still cessationists believe that stopped speaking, today and forever the same. He still moves today. leads today. He still does miracles today. things proceeding from His mouth and man lives by mouth. We are a church that want to see God today, passionate today. Have our best sacrifices today, to the Lord today, not 5 years ago because when Jesus came, revival broke out. Of course it What Pharisees only had is what God used to do wanted to do things now. That's why Jesus called revival of yesterday, criticized revival of today revival one day. God is bringing revival now. You God did... oh in that old grandma's church that I we grew up, you know that... that's great. What you're alive. God appointed you for this time and His church, the Lord is still moving in His church tombs of dead men bones, washing them every Ghost and live on what God wants to do today. Come happening with people today when they're giving, God is giving breakthrough, that could be up today, encourage you, to stir you toward the might not have your best year with your finances, with God. Oh but I did that. I tried that. The your memories bigger than your dreams. Don't have your fear bigger than your faith. Even your tiny rear view mirror. Most Christian live with a they're like Lot's wife, going forward, looking she did to me. It's not fair you know and you're in the past. Get unstuck. Your best days are through was to prepare you for what you're about abandon you. If you have breath, you have purpose. we're only existing and then 20 years later, they air. Don't waste your life, live. Dream. Be alive. you. You were saved by God. Almighty God lives years but so that you will lay your years down and back at this year and this has been the hardest whether it will be your best year spiritually and live based on what God used to do, I will live not too old. I'm not too young. I didn't fail too person for this season and my God will use me. If He can use me. If He can use Moses, He can use me. Say, I'm the temple not a tomb. The second came the river. See the moment you begin to live get engaged with it, river will start to flow. get stuck in there and keep remembering, we need need to thank God for those good old days. We we killed lion and the bear, we must understand, that means that all of what God used to do is to moving forward. God is not stuck in the past. God is improving and changing but progressing in the time with every generation and this is our do greater things that He used to do but we must when you become a person who says, this is going to pray. I'm going to fast. I'm going to year spiritually. God will take care of the stuff life but something will happen right away, the is the Holy Spirit is a river not a pool. The is not a pond, the Holy Spirit is not a jacuzzi, the temple. Jesus said in John chapter 4 John rivers of living water. Few things you need to a reservoir is a storage unit. If you feel like something is broken because the Holy Spirit does out of us. When the Holy Spirit comes, a flow flow. It doesn't mean you always feel there's your life. Something is flowing. You're not stuck produce life, reservoirs produce death. Rivers life. Number three, Rivers have banks, rivers are when we are standing for revival, what some people but a tsunami. What is a tsunami? Tsunami destroys volcanic interruptions from underground and these with water, they destroy everything. HungryGen for a tsunami meaning, a revival what destroys some people have this idea... if real revival worship service 24/7. That's a tsunami. A lot of believing is for river. What does this river it promotes life. If the tsunami will come, all destroyed. That river, it creates, gives water with plantation. The river of Ezekiel 47, the were made alive. There was a sense of life that that God wants to cause a revival where all the importance of influencing our society is removed, have time to eat is removed, all the banks are that is not a biblical revival. Why? Because God man which is to rule the planet. Are there moments four years non-stop church services? 100%. We are that brings life and has banks. No, not a river we causes us to live our Christian life in revival a revival is a lifestyle, where we win souls, we We run businesses that honor God. We give, we We go into our schools. River had banks so the every single day. The version of revival is that day. River has banks. We're not praying for a Come on somebody. River enters the sea. This river the door of the temple. It came out of the temple want you to notice, the river flowed out of What does this tell me? Real revival is not when we get the whole church to everybody. Real revival nations. Real revival is not when all the world stops being a destination but it's a gas station where we get everybody to come to church and that version of revival is not complete. It's very is the water flowing from the temple and the from the temple. Churches have become aquariums it's all about getting people to church but by being transformed first by God. River flows church has to become a reformation in the society. down. Put it somewhere on your fridge. &quot;Revival the society.&quot; If a revival in the church does not something. If the revival in the church does not If the revival in the church does not reduce the we are missing something. If revival in church their babies and that does not get decreased or people go in and say, we don't need revival in They preach social gospel but God's model has God has always been, if they humble, if they pray, heal their land. God's model has always been to will begin to... by default and intention reform trying to pull people from business, from school, be the salt and the light in your workplace. minister is the one that has a purpose and you can purpose as a mom raising your children. You can in revival in your heart. Thank you for that golf to reformation in the society. Reformation in laws and rules. Revival is not top down, it's down He changed the hearts and sent those people into started to occupy positions of politics, media, started to affect those areas with the saltiness away people from the marketplace, we draw people in prayer but we don't live in revival. We because revival needs to become a reformation. Because this earth does not belong to the devil. the earth is given to the sons of men. This us to spread the fame of His name not by force but and the living of the good news everywhere we go. we're going into schools. We're not waiting working with God to see a revival break out in quit your business and become a full-time yes. We're encouraging you... no, rethink your influence for God's kingdom for your business even those without a spotlight microphone in example. America has experienced those things. short-lived. It started as a political violence in burned Indian stores, raped women, injured many. guy that was elected and I think I mispronounced again Christian. He saw the racism and the the violence. He came to the pastors and he says, cuz pastors also, denominations were fighting. we can see revival in the nation knowing that the society. Pastors started to get together, pray His opponent was a Hindu Indian opponent but born again organizes a national meeting where he of everyone because his opponent was from Indian people and he was calling for repentance calling his nation to repentance and even doing he should chose his presidential office not as a in his nation. Churches started to organize prayer days fastings in villages. It spread like wildfire getting saved. Idol were being burned. They would their sin. They burned 13,864 plantations of drugs. They burned idols. This started to spread village came back to life and actually fish came grow. It happened overnight when the villages for the redemption of the sons of God started the village. Revival came to the people. Please This world does not need a dead church. This world but doesn't have a big heart. This world does used to do and is no longer doing anything. reformed. In the documentary, Let the Sea Resound, land and in people started to happen in villages missionary, that's one of the things they used would kill and eat this missionary. When the was what their ancestors did. They paid for the come back to that village so that they can ask for In September 20, 2003 over 100,000 people, 10% of in that nation, when this repentance, when this wait for the White House to change. Revival waits that controls the destiny, it's the White Throne it. God didn't say, if Joe Biden. God says, if My president. God says, if My people begin to humble the revival in your home. You hold the key to the change in your society and that key my friend in front of a TV show or a football game but because water flows from the temple and when this sea. God wants revival not to stop in the church into the society, into the school system, into the arena, every arena but make no mistake, the change here. The change comes from the Holy Spirit and Yeah the laws have to be made to protect and people from evil. Prisons don't change criminals. it's justice. God teaches that but what brings brings change is the blood of Jesus Christ, is it's not legislation and it's not somebody in high this gospel shouldn't stay there. It has to flow tombs, we are temples meaning, we're not going to spiritually we're going to experience that now. Holy Spirit wants to create a river, a revival, not from there into here. The model that so many is this. You're truly revived if you faithfully that's good. Giving, faithful attendance is flows out. Jesus didn't say if you believe in Me, flow out. So revival, let's redefine revival to the church filled with the Holy Spirit to live for world belongs to God. Right now it's occupied by date. The guy is not staying here for long. He's counting, there's a countdown that has been set. to hit his face, not yours. The end of age is his God's going to make this world new and we're devil's pro-death, the devil's reign is coming to Jesus is already the King and we're waging war. of it. Why? Because our King has already defeated back. Lastly the river grows fuller as it goes increases. How do we see greater increase our church? The river did not increase at the it got wider, gradually got deeper. 1,000 there was a gradual increase of the river but I increased. The river increased as the man walked river increased as the man walked in the direction As you walk in that direction, the river gradually to the knees and then waist and then he couldn't to the lowest point on the planet. The secret to but growing it is this. It's not in our speed, when winning the lost is a department of the we will not maintain the anointing. When the sure we are in the right direction. What is that I can tell you where God's will is headed. If comes to the knowledge of Jesus Christ. God's receive power to make you witnesses in Jerusalem, God made it very clear, My direction where where My glory will flow, My provision will flow you will always be in My power. You will I'll increase it gradually. I'll expand it to see an increase. As you get closer and begin to increase the amount of miracles and more more homes being rebuilt for God. Direction that direction is to win souls and to make else is not sacred. How we do that vision and that mission. When this church was started, it fish. It wasn't started to preserve tradition. It no English, didn't understand the culture and here, that vision was made very clear from the how can you do that in the United States? This here today because the church had the direction priority. This church exists for the reason is defined not by how much gifts you have but this earth for. Do you live for that purpose? Our is for that purpose. Going into school is for and form go to the dead sea, the lowest point Salvation is for that purpose. The healing is for Destiny training is for that purpose. It's not a is the direction that God has said in His word. moving because I'm telling it where to move. moving and God made it very clear. The river is planet. Broken, hurting, lost, backsliding, people is the reason why He died and it's the reason He us the church and it's the reason God will give the planet, as long as HungryGen keeps salvation to make whatever sacrifices, whatever changes we Jesus Christ, we will never lack the anointing of assignment that God has given. We will be praying it's so that we can fulfill our purpose. Amen. Let secular people who have lived that as saving There's this bridge in China and China actually country in the world. Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge record. They actually beat the San Francisco that has the most suicide. This bridge is the Chen Si saved a man's life after grabbing the ground. He would actually drive taxi and across a four lane highway, grabbing somebody from he actually every weekend for 18 years volunteered talking to hundreds of people thinking about nonprofit. This wasn't a job. It's just on his to anybody that's walking on this bridge, in fact few years after that, he moved his house, the bridge where he was, where he lived for the He rescues one person every two weeks. When they I didn't have the ability to protect myself to save, return to haunt me in my dreams. This is simply saw people ending their life and refused something to save somebody's life, dedicated that bridge and the angel of that river. Let me Ritchie is called the angel of the Gap. The Gap destination that has gained, became infamous as about 50 people end their lives there every single Navy. In the Sydney, he worked in insurance. Since says he saved over 400. He says I was a salesman is how he would save people. He lives next to the would know why they are there. Most likely not to come up and say, can I help you in some way? The come and have a cup of tea? He says more than not I risked my own life by physically restraining Afterwards he would invite them back into his they would return years later to thank him my ambition has always been to just let to give them the opportunity to reflect and give better the next morning. He said this, you can't and save them. A simple conversation of an elderly he passed away already. My question today for us. to the bridge where the most deaths happen every day somebody steps into the abyss, into the there. You're working there. You're driving there. there. You're getting your degree there. My desire is this is to refocus you and I, that we blind or deaf to the cries and the plight of the direction of every Christian is to live for the person can encounter the love of God. He gave His you to die for people. He's saying, could you with intention with the purpose cuz life without 1976 on his usual 12mile run with his brother Kamo I've heard about this story. I've never seen it to be true. On his 12 mile run with his brother, side of freezing water. That bus was about 880 that, as a champion who wins these competitions in water. He would spend 30 to 35 seconds for each only 20 survived. He had so much glass and dirt in there, he had to break the back window of the and so he got a lot of stuff into his lungs. coma for 40 days after that. He never performed did exactly same thing in Moscow, jumping into a up again in the ER for days. They interviewed him until the newspapers came out that he saved this so tell me about that day when you were going his brother would resuscitate them on the pull one out and then bring them in. Pull one he collapsed and they had to admit him to ER I knew that I could barely save so many lives. was afraid to make a mistake. It was so dark During one of my drives, I accidentally grabbed a life instead. That seat still hunts me in my is for us to be witnesses and to live with people to be rescued. There's some things we that speaks of winning souls for Jesus, feet you talk to. Every person is fighting a battle we're offering life and hope. We're offering life. river meaning live a life of prayer but walk... ankles meaning, where you and I, if you really live with intention. Don't just do life, live knees. This means when we lead somebody to Jesus, bring them to a life group. We got to connect and leave them alone like that. The only children are the sick children. God doesn't want sick have a home group, a life group. Somebody that them. Follows up on them. Can somebody say disciple them. Discipleship is different than the praying through for them and then discipleship is to other people. They go through Destiny training. God has one more stage, He wants every Christian up, gets discipled to become a disciple maker and get to a place we can't walk anymore, we're going A pastor who wins 10,000 people every month will wins two people every month and teaches them which tells me win, follow up, disciple and then believers into disciples, disciples into disciple that is not the point. The point is that, can you follow up on somebody? Can you open your mouth 'yes,' could you put them in your prayer list and small group? Could you sign them up for destiny disciple makers for God? Can somebody say Amen. will make disciples. This is Jesus's strategy. make decisions. He didn't say go into all the a sinner's prayer. He says go into all the world through, I want you disciple and for them to make is not just about building a bigger church. It's and make disciples. Do you see that poster? Every to do that. Are you a believer? I don't know if you have children, when you get married and you to have children, you just have love and when you you got children and you're still a child broke but it doesn't matter. You got love and you of us we say no, I cannot spiritually help other to be in the church. You didn't say, I need to be some of you got it right away and some of you, have mercy. That's another sermon for another day. what I want to encourage you is this is that none just because we're quote unquote don't have a we're in love. We want to see a family and then we their diapers. They change our attitude. We begin we love those kiddos. They grow up. They have spiritual family to be. Every Christian being a disciple maker and the river grows as we all go, the whole church moves in a direction, we go to go to cell groups and we go about our life winning So the church can get bigger? No, so hell can get I won not only on the cross but all of your spoil. Why? Because My children full of the Holy Ghost the enemy has stolen and we will see thousands conferences at the Toyota Center. We will not be a church of home groups. We are not going to be and few people serve. We will be a warship that income today will become our tithe tomorrow. We we're going to be adding more campuses. Okay most is going to spread His kingdom and He's going come out of this house, that's not going to come of musicians are but because our musicians win and you will feel the aroma being released in bestseller for the glory of God and people will be that TriCities? And nobody knows them and nobody grace of God, because the river increases when when we build our name, God doesn't increase the name, Jesus will increase the anointing. Somebody now.