[Music] Hey! Glad you made it. In this this video to reactivate some of these 1980s beepers and signals. I've been learning about radio with my types of radio signals. This is the sort of thing with these beepers. There's no display on these. red LED. &quot;time and space&quot; &quot;these limitations time and expand your working space&quot; &quot;with an to keep in touch for important calls and messages needed you'll know instantly and no one needs sort of pager you could get. If you wanted to message with an operator. And then the person and call to hear the voicemail or the message. last used to receive a signal. I've had them for a again. To do this I'm going to need two things. And I need their unique ID code that they''re a Cap Code or Channel Access Protocol Code. them apart. Because I want to see what's inside. can be used interchangeably. Technically &quot;What the devil's that?&quot; &quot;that's me my office must have come through&quot; &quot;you mean they dialed excuse me&quot; &quot;I'll call in&quot; &quot;let me see that&quot; &quot;sure&quot; &quot;how about that&quot; &quot;what do they think of next&quot; and by the 1970s citywide networks began It takes a single double A battery. Turning it on a red LED that flashes. You can press down on the mention on the back that it's frequency is 148.5 to be very much I can do with it. So it's time to whole thing slides apart, and Wow! Look at that. like some very early 80s electronics. In fact and in many ways it is. But it must include some receiving. And I can't even tell which components six-digit number on it. This could be the Cap with the first digit being a zero or a one. Cap Codes. I'll make a note of this number beeper I have here is this smaller NEC. Apart works in exactly the same way as the Motorola. except this takes a AAA Battery instead. It also compartment is something very interesting. is an eight-digit number. But the other one is actually be a Cap Code. But there's no frequency take this apart, and the disassembly is identical the cover slides off. But the insides look very It looks a lot more like a late 1980s design to very radio related, and the other side looks like chips. I'm going to take a guess that this 8 Pin Cap Code. But for the moment, the radio side is and printed on it is 148.037. This could actually it's time to bust out my HackRF and see what Portapack option attached. This includes a screen from open-source hardware. You have to be sure compatible with the latest open source firmware. set the frequency of this Motorola and I'm putting I've tried transmitting with different Baud no response. I think that number may not be Switching to the NEC, I'm going to input the and for the Cap Code. I'm putting in 0308750. and there it goes, it works! I finally managed is so awesome. I'm using a transmitter power on range and I can get about 10 to 15 Meters away, means I can run as many experiments as I need, legally possible. Unless someone's within about I'm doing here. By the late 1970s a European pager make pagers compatible between different equipment POCSAG stands for Post Office Code Standardisation was involved in telecommunications standards. in many countries for the post office to run this technology was really the 1980s and 1990s. display pagers began appearing that could show pager where your messages are actually written to a phone&quot; &quot;well they're not around yet&quot; &quot;but who wants to send you the message first phones up into a computer&quot; The very first ones (display used to send someone a phone number on their had some sort of meaning attached to them. This LA some of the numbers they were using as meaningful numbers to represent messages. I've had a look at and I'm not really sure how widely known many of looks like it's one of the very first numeric the later model alpha numeric. I'm not completely work on this. But I do have a number of these really keen for a very long time to get these all is this really nice big screen NEC pager. very simple menu system, for protecting messages deleting messages and setting the time. This model so dim I can barely see it. And the only way I me it doesn't look this bright in real life. There complete darkness. OK, to get this working I just back here we can see there is a frequency 148.1875 Breaking out the HackRF and attempting to send a So I am going to open this up and have a look are inside. There's a nice big fat custom NEC a micro controller doing all the CPU functions. and this confirms the frequency also quite interested in what's under this and from the way it looks I think this could this would need a a lot of RAM to store all the just happens to match the brand on the battery good omen. A critical part of this pager for me couple of web pages that describes what these pins going to need to build a connector. I found this the exact same pitch as the pins on the pager. to make this very dodgy looking connector. After and hopefully the pins are contacting. These software that can be used for programming these to find a copy. I just need a laptop and now this is the OG of GPD's Windows based laptops. I and should do exactly what I need to interface to adapter. I love these things and I've used old hardware. On the laptop I'm running DosBox. pass through from DosBox to the serial USB that MS-DOS software that needs a serial port. Now I and the first thing it asks is which ROM do I is R3A4-11A. So that's the ROM I'm choosing in the the pager it detects 3.3 Volts coming in on one But when I try to connect I I tried every possible combination variables here could it be DosBox After much research I found that NEC uses inverted really confusing, because serial TTL is already they mean you need an inverted inverted TTL serial adapter. And these have software which And once I did this I was finally able to connect and it tells me that the Cap Code on this different settings in the configuration but this is really awesome. I'm going to make to this pager. So first I'm going to change in this case 031337, and I'm going And success! That seems to have worked. When I the new Cap Code. OK, I'm really keen to try the new Cap Code and make sure the frequency And there it goes, we've got a So let's switch the HackRF from address only to alpha numeric mode and input a And there it goes! My pager has finally Nimoy gave you the message&quot; And it I would really like to change the frequency them legally. For example the 148 MHz band that range that I can legally transmit on up to 100 crystal to switch the frequency. I'm not sure this much more modern pager. Probably from about Code that's been programmed in. Even better is between 448 to 454 MHz. But despite being more available for programming these. It looks very this is a Geo based pager, and I don't even know about with these pagers has also made me much more one such Network being Meshtastic. Which uses two-way Meshtastic pager in my pocket. Something pagers from the late 1990s. That can also act as around the network as I carry it on me. I still HackRF is a great way to do this. There are some about these topics. Such as a new favorite called videos. Modern smartphones may have become boring pleased to see that there are new devices and new and exciting to tinker with. I still have a lot of Though if you find yourself watching future Such as Superthanks or Patreon. Your support is these videos available for everyone. But that's Hack the Planet!