- [Petter] There's nothing but still it has flipped over into are struggling for their lives Outside, it's dark and stormy, but it's not the weather Stay tuned. - Kenya Airways Flight 507 scheduled in the evening And it was divided into two legs. The first flight was scheduled and then bound There, the crew was supposed and then take up some towards their final destination The flight was scheduled and early night with a departure time of 18:30 from Abidjan in Nairobi around three o'clock at night, making it potentially a quite The captain of the flight who had been flying for over He had just under of which 3,464 were flown The majority of this experience which was the aircraft that they The first officer with considerably less experience. He had accumulated just of which around 200 making him a very Now, the personalities will play a very so it's worth explaining before we move on. The captain had a quite chequered During his command upgrade training, had noted performance deficiencies including lack of poor adherence to cockpit scans, and just overall Now, the notes that really stood out was that even though he had shown okay handling skills, his personality showed that he was overbearing and that he showed which affected his cockpit scans, and then, ultimately, his These are quite serious issues of participating in a training and improve deficiencies noted. And that's exactly At the end of his he had been recommended which he didn't pass due during his training. But then he was scheduled for a recheck which he, After this, several and recurrent simulator checks followed a similar pattern then dealt with and trained him back up to sufficient standard before he Finally, though, the head of training had contacted him after in August of 2006, and told him and that the airline needed to determine if these performance lapses or incompetence. Now, that's not something that you ever want to hear Having said all this, that several of his colleagues he was perceived as a pretty nice guy. So this meant that the airline But as long as he kept passing there wasn't really much He had been evaluated but still at an acceptable standard. And the very last simulator check he had actually passed it noted from the examiner. Now as an instructor, one thing is normally very hard And that's because as part in a sense of entitlement And if you don't think or you blame others for your failures, well, then you will never work And this is why self-critique This brings us to the first officer. Now, he was in the but he had also racked up He had failed as well as his IFR skill test And during the last which he had done back had noted that although he needed to monitor errors more carefully and call them out, of the autopilot. Here it's important to point out about calling out deviations to new first officers. It can be sometimes especially in a check environment but assertiveness is absolutely Calling out things when they is probably the single most so this is drilled into us especially in the beginning. Anyway, judging from their it looks like the pilots comprised of a slightly prone to lapses and situational and a new young first officer with speaking up in the cockpit. And this will become important very soon. When the pilots started preparing the weather over Douala, didn't look very good. There were loads of thunderstorms that they were going to be there and okay visibility between the storms. This would have likely caused that they carried enough fuel, a big problem. Thunderstorms so providing that they could wait be able to squeeze in And if that wouldn't be possible, Once the pre-flight preparation to the cabin crew and then briefed them about the flight times that these storms could cause. And after that, they walked out for the first flight. The aircraft that they were going to fly which had been delivered to Kenya Airways It had no technical malfunctions but there had been some earlier issues but those particular problems after its latest maintenance overhaul. So once the safety inspection the crew began boarding and at time 18:30 local time, and proceeded towards Douala. That first flight proceeded and they landed And after landing, to stand Charlie-seven, no marshaller present to guide them on to the stand, they had and await a tow truck to tow them which took about 20 minutes or so. And after that, the passengers who were getting off Now before I continue to explain here comes a short message and my team to create these videos. With so much of our personal taking place online, to use a fast and reliable VPN. And that's especially true And today's sponsor, NordVPN, NordVPN can help you find cheap deals by allowing access to websites that might be blocked or restricted And another example, did you know and travelling booking sites based on your location? Well, get Nord and find out NordVPN gives you online privacy when making financial transactions And with this app, you'll get access to over 5,000 servers So if you go to NordVPN.com/pilot right now, you will get an exclusive plus one month absolutely free so you don't have anything to lose. Download the app right now on the go. Thank you NordVPN. As the pilots were waiting they received a briefing package by the dispatcher. The weather was still forecasted with moderate thunderstorms forecasted to last After having looked at that weather, was going to be pilot flying a sensible decision to take because when we're flying it's pretty common for the captain when he's flying with which was the case here. The pilots decided to uplift bringing the total to 14,200 kilos which was going to be sufficient for their And once the fueling has been completed, they started boarding In total, 38 passengers disembarked got on, bringing the total number 108 passengers and six crew members. During the cockpit preparation, the first officer called up to get the latest weather. Initially there was some slight confusion regarding which callsign but once that has been resolved, the tower gave the pilots temperature, 27 degrees Celsius; dew point, 25; winds, calm and Runway 12 for takeoff. This sounded like quite nice weather so the captain proceeded the EDEBA 1-Echo, to the possible weather impact. Once all the cockpit preparation was ready, the first officer, to ask for their engine startup clearance which they received at time 23:20. Immediately after this call, also contacted the tower and they asked for it Now the reason they asked that a moderate to heavy rain shower had now moved in over the airfield. And it became so intense actually called the tower back up until that storm had passed. This took a further 17 minutes the pilots again called the tower to start their engines again, Here it's worth pointing out that now had just passed should have prompted the captain to include contingency that was now clearly but that was never done. Instead, Flight 507's as per standard operating procedures and at time 23:59, the first officer asked But instead of receiving clearance Flight 507 to hold The aircraft was, at this point, with the nose pointing So the captain used this time in order to get a better overview The picture that they saw was very bleak. There were a lot of storm returns and the captain exclaimed that, likely referring to one of the storms directly in front of them &quot;There's no way here.&quot; Whilst the pilots of Flight 507 the Royal Air Maroc aircraft, for an update to the current weather. And now, a so-called SPECI had been issued for the airfield, with 800 metres visibility and moderate thunderstorms This special weather report at this point, so it's unlikely understood the severity of it. This was later pointed out by air traffic control the fact that there around and that it was raining heavily would have been So this SPECI information the minds of the pilots About one minute later, enter and then backtrack Runway 12. The first officer read back this, of people on board which was five hours and 45 minutes. During the taxi out, some concern about the weather around them and he also hinted at the fact were a bit rushed. The captain reassured him but he did so laughing at him, at least, twice. This points to the same type of attitude that the captain had shown earlier the first officer even less prone As the aircraft was now the tower controller called them and he also told them to call him back The first officer read back that they would call him Now the cabin crew called that they were ready for departure, to give a quick PA to the passengers, emphasising the need for them to check that they had and he also seated Both the captain and the first officer on their navigation displays around on the runway, the captain started to study the picture he saw that they could deport safely. Up until this point, had been done by the first officer, including initiating which would normally This could possibly be because on the weather situation a further indication of the captain's In any case, the captain from the first officer and asked a modification of to maintain a heading slightly left to avoid some weather. The first officer corrected him And the captain continued, which the tower then approved. After this, the captain immediately started advancing He called, &quot;Stable. N1. TOGA.&quot; Pushed the TOGA buttons Has any one of you noticed Yeah, remember how the controller when they were ready for departure? Well, that was never done, had taken over the radios disrupting normal communication flow, and this meant that the aircraft without takeoff clearance In any case, the takeoff roll and at six minutes past midnight, into the stormy night. After takeoff, the gear was selected up and almost immediately, towards the right. This was easily counteracted a little bit of left aileron to keep And the reason was likely that there was still selected from the previous flight. Also, aircraft are not so very minor roll tendencies And this wouldn't have been if it wasn't for what's because as the aircraft passed all recorded pilot inputs on the captain's control wheel This coincided with the captain and the first officer confirming was actually active. This meant that the captain his controls here but why did he do that? Well, we can't know this for sure but he was likely concentrated that the aircraft needed between the storm clouds. 1,000 feet is normally and there is a possibility that he tried to push but that he did so whilst a little bit of force on the yoke. And if you do that, I have actually seen And it's one of the many reasons, the procedure of select, verify and call whenever any type of selection is made. What this basically means or action that we want, on the flight mode annunciator and only after that, can we call it out. But is there no warning telling the pilots that the autopilot Yes, there is but that warning only activates if the And in this case, it was never In any case, after this, the aircraft, not the pilots It was literally just flying by itself. The captain was most and on the weather radar. And he now started turning on the mode control panel away just like they had planned to do. He selected 132 degrees remember that tiny right roll tendency Well, now as there was no one holding on to the controls the aircraft started rolling and that was likely misunderstood by the captain as turning towards the heading It is likely that none of the pilots their instruments at this point because if any of them on to their flight mode annunciator and below, they would have seen or flight director mode and not in CMD or command as it should have said The captain now said, likely pointing out the track between the storm clouds. He then moved to the right onto heading of 139 degrees, causing the magenta flight primary flight display showing him how to turn. And even that, should have been wasn't right here because when the autopilot is engaged, it always follows It never leaves the middle But in this case, since the its bank towards the right, would have indicated as the aircraft was only banking with around six degrees that it would normally do. As the aircraft the autothrottle reduced the thrust and the first officer called this out. The aircraft was now banking and the speed had started was slowly dropping. This speed increase would have caused to start moving the trim wheels in case the pilots aren't trimming And the fact that the automatic trimming was now happening, the captain's belief was indeed engaged Since they were now the selected 139 degrees, started indicating a left roll needed but this change in indication Instead, the captain called out, indicating that he now At this point, the aircraft any inputs for about 18 seconds the autopilot was still not engaged. So this might just for what he thought he had done earlier. Like I said before, is critical and it's equally important that the pilot monitoring after the pilot flying has called it. And this is an excellent example of that. Anyway, the aircraft now right hand turn and meanwhile, the first officer started talking he should have selected The aircraft's heading had now passed through 139 degrees meaning that the were now indicating full left. The captain now moved onto a heading of 120 degrees. But, of course, the aircraft just and the command bars The fact that he didn't notice his change in heading command his primary instruments And neither was the first officer Instead, when the aircraft climbed suggested that they should They were cleared to climb of flight level 370 but, again, this pressure-setting change and there was no hurry to do this. The flaps were still extended to do before the after takeoff checklist So at this point, it would have for the first officer to monitor The next thing that happened &quot;Now we're getting into it,&quot; probably referring to the storms outside and likely, an increase in the amount The first officer responded, &quot;Okay.&quot; And then he said, Followed by the heading bug being moved from 120 degrees This was possibly done by the first officer and, therefore also, with what the aircraft was actually doing. But, of course, But when the autopilot's engaged, which the pilot thought that it was, only the pilot flying on the mode control panel. So if the first officer saw something that he didn't like, rather than trying to fix it. As the aircraft reached about 2,600 feet, the captain asked, Obviously still preoccupied and trying to find The first officer responded, &quot;Okay?&quot; And six seconds later, had increased to 34 degrees. And the captain let This was then immediately followed by a-- - Bank angle. And now the captain finally and started trying to correct The problem was of the high bank angle because what he now did was he abruptly turned Now his primary instrumentation already was in the right-hand turn. And outside his window, so he wouldn't have been able unless what he saw outside Sometimes when we're flying in clouds, the illusion of a horizon why it is so important In this case, it's also possible of instrument scan of a bank angle warning led rather than a balanced Anyway, this initial right input roll further to the right, reaching which is a quite steep turn. After this, the captain continued clearly showing confusion He also started pushing rudder in the Boeing 737 during normal flight. The turns are normally coordinated was a very odd thing to do, and possible disorientation. But it could possibly also indicate had some kind of flight control problem. The next thing that happened was that the autopilot now At this point, the captain that it wasn't engaged stabilising the aircraft he just pushed the button. Now when the autopilot is engaged as the roll mode, it normally tries in heading select. But since the autopilot was engaged and the flight directors it wasn't able to do that. Instead, the autopilot engaged in a mode called This is a lower form where the aircraft basically continues to fly the bank angle It will however, not accept so if the captain would have just it likely would have stabilised the very steep turn But instead of doing that, after engaging the autopilot, the captain again started inputting on the yoke He first moved the yoke to the right together with large bursts Now, if an aircraft is in the rudder to the right, but since it's banking that yaw will start pointing towards the ground, The captain called out, while still moving The first officer responded, as the bank now reached 70 degrees down towards the ground. The captain continued he eventually moved but with the high bank angle and enormous rudder this left aileron wasn't enough to decrease The first officer, likely understanding that the captain started calling out corrections was, &quot;Right, captain! Left, left, left. Possibly adding to the confusion which by this point At time seven minutes the aircraft reached of 115 degrees to the right. After this, the continuous started having an effect towards 70 degrees, but at that point, there were only 1,300 feet off the ground and the nose was pointing Seven seconds later, into the flight, the aircraft crashed with a speed up 270 knots All 114 people on board The search and rescue work but was hampered by the poor weather and the swampy terrain Eventually, both the flight data recorder was found in the five-metre deep crater that the aircraft had created The investigation ultimately concluded by a loss of control by the crew after a long slow roll, during which and in the absence due to darkness and the cloudy weather. Inadequate operational control, poor monitoring and confusion was what ultimately led to the accident. The investigation team came to both the airline but the single most was the implementation and recovery technique training programme for commercial pilots. Remember, this happened back in 2007, which was two years before and Air France 447 which also drove home the need All commercial pilots are now every sixth month of their career. I think that this accident also serves of proper pilot selection. If you are thinking before you start you should do a pilot suitability test. And you should be doing that, to make sure that you aren't spending just to find out that you won't be able to pass the airline acceptance test, but also for the sake of everyone Now if you want to check to check out the Airline Pilot Club. It's a free resource that will give you one of those indicative tests for free, as well as a lot of other great support And I've linked to them Now, check out this video next to find really interesting If you want to support me and my team, my beautiful Patreon crew. I would love to see you You can also buy some merch everything is really appreciated. Have an absolutely fantastic day