Today I made tender and juicy roasted pork fillet. Hello, I'm Yukari, a cookery researcher. This channel introduces various cooking recipes and useful information. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. Please subscribe to my channel Today I would like to make tender and juicy roasted pork fillet. Today I would like to make a very tasty and tender roasted pork fillet. Roasted pork fillet takes a little longer to cook, but the process is simple. There are some tips to make it tasty and tender. I hope you'll have a great time. Please have a look at it. Here are today's ingredients. Pork belly block, green part of leek, ginger, garlic, cooking sake, salad oil, soy sauce, sugar. Oyster sauce. Also, water is used to cook the pork belly block. Here are the taste points for this issue. This oyster sauce boosts the umami and makes it very tasty. Or substitute honey for this sugar to increase the richness and make it very tasty. It can also be made with just sugar and soy sauce, so I hope you can make it with what you have. If you have it, please try adding oyster sauce. Today I will make it with these ingredients. Now let's do a little meat prep. This time I will use a pork belly block. This is a pretty small amount, about 350 grams. This is quite a small amount. I have a tip for choosing pork belly, I recommend a ratio of about 4 oil and 6 meat. Pierce the surface with a fork. This makes it easier for the flavor to soak in. So the meat is now ready for preparation. Now let's start making it. First, I grill the pork belly block in oil. This will allow the excess fat to drain off and produce a delicious roasted pork fillet. So the first thing is salad oil. Now let's put it on the fire. Let's warm up the pan a little bit. Turn the heat to medium and cook the meat fat side down. This will brown the meat all over. Baking it first makes it less likely to fall apart. After baking for roughly 3 minutes, flip over. Nice browning. Crispy finish like this. The back side is also baked. Then I will burn the sides next. Let's grill it like this while holding it down with tongs or something so that it doesn't burn a little bit. When the browning is done, it's done. Then turn off the heat. Can you see that quite a bit of oil has been released? Oil came out like this. Now I will cook the pork. This stewing process makes the meat very tender. Then the meat is added to the pot and water is added. Add water until the meat is thoroughly submerged. Add water until the meat is thoroughly soaked. Here are the green onions. You can shred the green onions like this. The flavor of the green onions will come out from the shredded part, so shred them and put them in. And then about three thinly sliced ginger. Garlic is also put in as it is. And then finally, here's the cooking wine. The addition of the cooking wine removes the smell from the meat and makes it more tender. It's a little bit tapy, but let's put it on the fire with this. Once I put the lid on. Continue to place over slightly higher medium heat until it comes to a boil. Boil has come to a boil. Then reduce heat. Then slowly simmer over low heat. This will result in a very tender and delicious roast pork. If the water gets low during the process, add more. Continue to heat again. Time has passed. Now I would like to open it. Open. Looks tasty. It's nice and soft like this. Once we do that, we take this meat out. I take it out. Save a ladleful of this broth. Put a ladleful of the broth from the previous step in a frying pan and add soy sauce and sugar here. Add the oyster sauce. Now let's put it on the fire. Mix a little. Put on heat until sugar dissolves. Once it comes to a boil, turn off the heat and add the roast pork here and lower the heat. Then I pour the broth over the top with a ladle or something. And then I cook it for about 3 minutes, turning it over gently, turning it around like this every once in a while. When the sauce has thickened a little, turn off the heat. Then let the sauce cool down a little. If you want the meat to absorb more flavor, let it sit overnight. This will make the meat even more flavorful and delicious. So this time I want to soak up the flavor. This time this sauce is a little thicker so that it can be eaten right away. So when you marinate the fish, dilute the sauce a little with the broth you just boiled. First, put the meat here. Then add the sauce. Add this broth to thin it out a bit. Add like this. Thin the sauce a little bit like this, mix it in and taste a little. Make it just about as thick as you want it to be finished. I boiled a half-boiled egg and would like to put this in with it. Then you can remove the air. Let the air out and close your mouth. When you put it in the bag, take off the heat, but also take off the heat until it's hot enough to put in the refrigerator, and then put it in the refrigerator for half a day or overnight. A day has passed. Now let's open it. It is soaked with flavor. I would like to boil some of the broth that I want to pour over the chashu at the end. I'm going to turn off the heat here because I'm getting a little bit of the sauce. Now I would like to cut roasted pork fillet. Please cut to your desired thickness. Looks so delicious. Now I will cut it into pieces that are easy to eat. It looks so delicious. It looks so delicious like this. Finished cutting like this. Finally, pour the sauce that you just warmed over here and microwave it for 1 minute like this. Then pour the sauce over it again and warm it for 30 seconds to soak up the sauce well. Now I would like to cut the eggs as well. When cutting, you can use this kind of thread to clean up the cut. Apply like this and take like this. Let's go, open. See. It turned out to be very tasty. The roasted pork fillet is ready. Now I would like to serve it. Now the roast pork is ready. This is how it is finished. The color is also smeared on the sides like this. I hope you can do this one to your liking. It is very tasty even if the surface is still a little pinkish, so please eat it the way you like it. It's done. It's done looking delicious like this. Now, I would like to eat Looks insanely delicious. It looks so delicious that it's worth stewing it. Let's eat. Very tasty. The fatty part is also juicy because the excess fat has been drained off, but it's not too greasy and the flavor is well absorbed inside the meat. I'll have a boiled egg made instantly. The yolk has only been marinated for one day, but it is very tasty with the umami of roasted pork fillet and the aroma of scallions and other savory vegetables. I thought of that, so I boiled an instant boiled egg and added it to the dish. It's so delicious. It finished deliciously today. The first step in making roasted pork fillet is to poke holes in the fillet with a fork so that the flavor can soak in. Then I baked them in more salad oil. Roasting the pork fillet in more oil before boiling allows the excess fat to drain off, resulting in a very tasty roasted pork fillet. Baking the chashu before boiling helps keep it from losing its shape. And then you can cook it slowly for a long time to make the meat very tender. The stock from simmering pork can be used to make Chinese soup by adding chicken broth or Soujiki Chantan, so please don't throw it away. I made the sauce thicker so that it can be served immediately after baking. So when you marinate overnight like I did this time, make sure to dilute the sauce a little with the broth to make it just right. I think that if you boil down the broth that has been marinated for a day in a pan again, it will thicken and you can serve it over the chashu. If you want to eat it warm, pour the sauce over it and heat it in the microwave, so the sauce will soak in and it will be delicious. It is delicious both cold and warm. There are many ways to eat it, so I hope you enjoy it in many different ways. Today I made tender and juicy roasted pork fillet. I have many other various videos on my channel. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. I also post on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok, so we would appreciate it if you would like to like, follow, and share our posts. Thank you very much. So that's all for today. Thank you for watching to the end today. Please give us a good button. See you in the next video. Bye.