When something is true, It doesn't try to shut everything else Don't listen to that. When something is false, I feel to anybody else, just listen to me, So that you can't go Uh, but when something is And I think for me, Christianity is Jesus, who he is, why did he come? What did he do for us? Whereas, So many religions are trying Join us as we have a conversation and learn more about what God is Today I'm joined by Nikta Mareek, and Hormoz Shariat. Hello. Welcome to the I Found the I am so glad that you My name is Afshin Ziafat. I'm your host and I have a group we're going to talk about faith So let's jump in and talking about faith. And I know everybody around this Muslim background and found Jesus So before you became a Christian, attitude about Christianity? Well, I really Thought it was I know that you share that interest in it It wasn't for me. My people are from Morocco. We are Muslim. So I didn't really care about it at I wasn't against it I just thought if I really want a religion, I will Yeah, just because it came after. That's for you, yes. Bye bye, y'all. Uh, I think for me it was, I had never I didn't know anything about Jesus. I just knew in my family this is what this is how we interact with God. And so when I heard other people or God or anything like that, I just But this is how, this is who I am. Islam was so much a part of my didn't think much of anything. I hadn't stepped foot in a church. I hadn't heard about Jesus. So. Mm hmm. Yeah, I could I had kind of heard was Silly and it just sounded like relate to it And then every time I on the cross I couldn't understand So I never thought about it Well for religion of people over here in America. My family moved here when I was six or so. And so that's the American And I'm from Iran. And so this is what I believe. And so I just thought it was, And so I didn't think much more about it. I didn't have a, a really I just thought that's their religion. The question is, what was Christianity wasn't legitimate? Before you became a Christian, what For me, it was like outdated. I believed it that Islam is the last So I looked at it as a updated The complete set of truth. That's what they teach I said, that's an inferior religion. So why should I even consider that? I would say very similar thought. Well, if you believe in Christianity, And so for me, it was so tied And so I didn't, I wouldn't have I would just thought it wouldn't make But, um, let me ask this. Let's just get to the Okay. What are the fundamental areas? Where Christianity and Islam disagree. Like if someone were to come up and Aren't they essentially the same? What are the biggest disagreements Salvation. Did he, or did he not die Both religions say something central figure, which is Jesus. One says he's merely a prophet. The other one says he's God in human form. One says that. Clearly, the Quran says he was not was, and he was buried and raised again. So, they can't both be told the truth, most fundamental, uh, um, things. I think that's the central piece for me, I trust in what Jesus has already done, Yeah, I think what you're hitting on is uh, I, I think what you, what I'm the work of Jesus, ultimately, is where Uh, fundamentally disagree, uh, on not have been merely a prophet. Even things in the Quran that speak the fact that he lived a sinless life. There's things that really But then also, what you said, I think like most religions, is telling you what to be saved. Whereas Christianity is more about telling Christ and surrender and, and receive it. I have something. So I guess a difference for me is Not that, not just that I was perfect died for me and that I needed him. And then just to be embraced by love, like That's so huge. So the starting point is Whereas in Islam, what I was taught clean slate, but then you do good Whereas Christianity teaches That's why one time I read a the notion of Jesus to my sitting and telling me that he loves me. throwing himself in the water and He says, it's absurd. And I thought, see, there it is. One religion thinks you're on the dock. You're fine. The other religion teaches not that at the bottom of the water, dead, And so I agree with you. The starting point is Most of the religions are about Christianity is about You're relationship with him, as you know him. Scripture says, as we behold the glory this, that we become more and more another, as we know him and pursue him. That's why Paul even, in Philippians done, all my good works, are And Jesus came so that God can be known. One of the, uh, arguments that the Bible, um, is not valid. The Bible has been corrupted. And so, uh, how would you respond to that? You can be a witness. Let them hate. Let them have a sharp tongue. But you, they curse you. The Bible says you curse those So, I've seen the power of the Bible. When the person hates, comes with hate gentleness, how powerful that is, both for I think, uh, in the conversations bring up, you know, King James or all those types of conversations. And I love history, so, you know, we even further than that, then I think there's a lot of historical People that We talk about Cyrus and Xerxes. Um, we know that these So, look at the actual We have manuscripts from some of those And so, we can look at original languages. Um, and so I think those types of conversation and talking about, Okay, now That this is not something Put together but these are actual things like going into the book of Matthew fish then why that type of specificity Yeah, I mean so if you go extra biblical for instance Josephus one one of the that he was actually crucified and and even within the Bible, a lot of Muslims superior because it was one, came from the Prophet Muhammad, and, and it's one me, I think there's more, uh, proof, has been written by several different from different backgrounds, different backgrounds, and it comes together, the a glove, like you said, the prophecies I mean, to me, that's much more an experience in a cave and coming the way that it's supposed to be. It is witnesses, like in a crime scene. Yeah. The more people, witnesses you have. Yeah. The better. The better, right? If there's just one person telling you for more people that maybe saw the same So And the Bible was written by people Paul who writes in Corinthians, he says, he says, many of them are still alive. You can go talk to them, you know. I've found that it's Very rare become a christian because they're allowed to think and Question islam. I've had professors I witnessed to Very logical logical logical when They couldn't follow logic But let me just now, for you, the moment that you became feeling as you were considering it? Were you scared? Were you thinking about other, respond, and things like that? I just felt like, I, like, The words found something like the cure for cancer. Like, I have to get this out. Like, people don't know and understand. And I was actually in Iran, so I And he said, well, we And I was like, Grandpa, look at me. You know what I'm telling you? He's real, you know? Like, he's real. That was the main thing. They can learn who Jesus is by by being different like Jesus is. They want to know more and Well, for me, I came to Christ the Bible as a, Trying to be like So, I had so many questions. I was comparing them. My idea was all religions are the same. And if I study both, they will converge. But the more I compared the Bible and So, when I went to church and Gospel, I realized you don't have This is a child can understand it. Hey, uh, God loves you. You cannot reach out to Him because And because He loves I mean, these three simple, uh, truth. So, I remembered the moment I And the moment I heard that The world became full of light. I mean, I could see the light, I saw my sinfulness, the God's love and why Jesus came. Everything became clear in an instant. The next question I wanted to put what you just said, is what would you, who's curious about Christianity? Okay, I'm listening to this. I want to, I want to kind of investigate. I want to be maybe a little If you have a Bible, I would go read it for yourself. You've been told what it says, I would say, go to the book of John. In the New Testament and read it for don't have the Bible I would even pray It's just a God reveal yourself Would you reveal yourself I I want to meet you. I want to know you and and so I How about you? What what what advice would you curious about Christianity? Well, I can start. I have a question for them, like, God, or do you want to be right Like, ask yourself that question. Be honest. Are you sincere? Exactly. Do you really want to know God, If it's the first one, you will find him. He will reveal himself. If it's the second one, keep on going. Keep on going. It will take some more time then Yeah. So that's the question. I like, I like that. I just remember a few weeks Didn't seem to be open. And he was satisfied with his own beliefs. Then I did that, what you said. Uh, are you serious about God? Yes. Are you open to, uh, truth? If you find it anywhere, yes. So I challenge you to read the Bible. So I got a Bible. Earmark some verses and I signed. I said, okay, now, uh, you, you want that? Yeah. He said, yes, yes. And so I gave it to him and I didn't who are Christian, he said, he's reading He started with the earmarked verses, but read the Bible, the Bible is so powerful. You know, it's one thing Sorry, brothers is I think that, um. When something is true, It doesn't try to shut everything to that, don't listen to that. It just, when something is false, don't listen to anybody else. Just listen to me. We're going to shut down the internet. So that you can't go Uh, but when something is And I think for me, Christianity is more Who He is. Why did He come? What did He do for us? Whereas so many religions are trying You know what I mean? So, what were you going to say, brother? Yeah, I was just going to say, I think, he says, search me and know me and I be in the word but also like having that as I read this, like, let it read me. God, interact with me as I'm reading this. God, help me. Um, uh, and so just having that same God, open up. Show me who I am. Show me who you are. Right? That reminds me of Zacchaeus in the Jesus was coming along the way and he ran he could investigate and see who he is. But he had no idea as he's doing And he calls him by name and I'm going to stay at your house today. Well, he thought he was exploring Whereas Jesus was actually And so I think you're right. Um, pray God, reveal yourself to me So anyways. Okay, um, what advice would you have You cannot hate what you do not know. It's just impossible. Where Jesus says in Matthew 16 to his say, you, they say, you're just a prophet. And then he says, but who do you say I am? And Peter says, you are the So I think that's the key is a lot noise, what everyone else is saying. And I think that does fuel a it's misunderstanding instead and hear for myself. So I like that. Any, anybody else? What was someone who hates Christianity? I've had many people like that because times for me, uh, because when somebody Touches them and touches anybody who Because they're expecting Jesus says the world will hate So, if someone does hate Christianity, And we can show them the What was your family's reaction you had become a Christian? For me, they thought it was a phase. They didn't take it seriously. When I began speaking about Jesus, I Something new that she found. Mine was the same thing, because before I was always trying to share, you But when I, um, found Jesus, see that I wasn't giving up. Like, they would keep, uh, giving me and I'm not giving up and talking the years that I still won't quit. Yeah. And I still love Jesus. Yeah. For me, I would say it Same, same thing. They thought it was just a phase. In fact, my dad, he He was very, he disowned me, phase and then he even brought. A Muslim cleric that he And this guy was meeting with me. Your Bible says this here, then how questions that I didn't have the answers happened for me because it forced me to And so I started going and coming back with questions. Finally, the guy went back to my dad and than he was before as a Christian. And my dad said, nevermind, Yeah. My family made fun of me and said, I mean, you have a PhD degree. Why did you make, make that That's just so childish. And, uh, and again, they said this them, continue to pray for them. Over the years, almost all Every member of my family Uh, my mom was, raised me as a Muslim, but me freedom to kind of study all of them. But she thought that at the that Islam was most true. But my brother probably had the because he knew the Quran so well. And so now he's, he's breaking away And so he broke down in And so I think that was like a, given me such confidence in me, I saw that and went, Oh, okay. Like, I don't know, you know, I for me, I know that I found God. So if somebody is listening, they Really get serious about pursuing, What if it leads me to belief? And then what would happen with my family? What would have to change They may be considering that. There's a way to remain a Persian. And be a Christian because I think of the world think it's so intertwined they have to stop being those things. And I want to tell them that, well, Muslim, but it doesn't mean you have to It doesn't mean you have to stop being So what would you say to that? I think sometimes we're freed up better, you know, all of those things the love that we found in Jesus. Like we've been, we've been loved way than maybe we had before. In choosing Jesus over your family, So same thing. My dad didn't want to talk to me, but Even if he would leave the I'd still send him letters. I would still tell him, I love you. I'm praying for you. And over time that wore down my is this guy keep loving me when So I agree. Yeah. And I feel like prayer is such a big part a time period of years where you won't but being able to just continue to pray Yeah, and I often want I can't, I mean, in fact, it very well through that before it gets really good. I mean, how are you, how, how is Yeah. If you don't first go through this, you to Christians who have Muslim neighbors. How should they engage What would you say to a Christian? Hey, I have a Muslim neighbor. How should I share? What should I say to him? How can I start a conversation with him? What would you say? Well, do what Jesus did. It's friendship. He came as a friend. So it all begins with friendship. Because you're not, like, Somebody that It's, it's more than that. Because also Jesus wants So you should start a And that invites them to, to know Jesus. And get into a friendship with Jesus. And also be aware. that it will get to a point it's going will be a point they have to jump. And if I look at myself and knew I can lose everything. And the question that I had that I had Do I trust him? If I go for him, I will Like whatever happens, And be aware if you talk with it's friendship and trust. So I think what you're saying on about what you know, they want to want to have to see that first or you And I think you do that by I would say you serve them, be a Like, what can I do for you? How can I pray for you? Because really we have It's Jesus and he can do anything. He can provide anything. So, we're just here to serve. First Corinthians 9. 19. Paul says, I make my, even though I'm to all in order to win the more. I love that. Another major thing is, like I had the, and send them to planned churches. This is his system and he witnessing to it and very kind. And he was suspicious. He said, he's kind to He's really bringing food and taking me. He said, no, he said I was To make, to make sure what So I invited myself over his house. All I did all that day How is he treat, uh, He said, I, I wanna know. If he's true, if he's real, He said, by the end of that day, I because what he was showing me was real. The way he treated his So they want to know what That's right. So what I've heard is you pray for them. You serve them. You be a friend to them. But none of that happens until until you've gotten to know them. And so I think. A lot of sharing our faith is listening, those bridges to give them the good news. And if I can add there, I would say as you're asking genuine questions about, things that are telling you, but then also Cause God may give you something that he wants you to interject So it's like, we're listening listening to those spirits now. Okay, God, how do you want me So, um, and then just that genuine to hear, okay, maybe something, there's So beautiful. What's the number one question you'd I would say, do you have an Where He's talking to you, you're talking your life, and you have a direction, do something you still need, that you're That's beautiful. I think, You know, part of our story that just, let me tell you what happened when tell you what God is doing for me now. Let me tell you how he's with me now. So on that note, let me maybe ask this, That if somebody listening right showing up in your life now? Uh, what would you share? Yeah, I think, uh, this season it's been, Though I walk through the valley of the And, um, I just recently lost a young, and, uh, someone who I saw Um, but the way that, that they, which is a very confusing time. And I think this season has been in the midst of dark times will give I'm going through, God will be there. And I think, you know, as we talked things, maybe if it's persecution is, he is really with you in the presence and you know that he's there. And so. I feel like that's, this is kind Yeah. For me, it's, it's really living So going through different things to fear, but just really depending I have a good, I have a good father So he's showing me how to be brave and. Just standing in the truth and stand going to be okay and because I know about anything else That's beautiful. Well for me pastoring You know, I've crossed the 50 year old mark as a man. And so I have this kind of midlife issue. And then also the weariness of pastoring A lot of things happen, uh, in in that time to be a pastor. And my, I lost my father. He passed away. There's a lot of things that hit me, but. I went through a dark period recently, and I'm walking through it and, uh, Where is this coming from? And it made me get on my And the Lord led me to first he actually speaks about that. God guards your faith until And And inherit the inheritance. He says, until that day, And one of the ways he guards you trials like fire, and he refines And I noticed that God was refining And what's so amazing is God showed such a way that I was able to stand up them, um, You need to know I'm weak. I need Jesus. I've gone through dark times and I shared up to me and said, thank you for sharing religious leaders again, we think they're we're able to say no, we're human beings. We struggle. We need Jesus. We need God. And so God used it for So, well, thank you for this conversation uh, if people are listening, my prayer and, and ask these questions seriously. Is Jesus really true or not? Well, thank you so much for joining us. If you are interested to learn more, out any of the other videos on the Uh, God bless you and we'll see you soon.