Why I avoid Windows standard folders? Hi, everyone. Leo Notenboom here for askleo.com. It's interesting. For years, I mean, literally since, to Windows way in the way back avoided using Windows standard folders. I'll describe what I mean Part of it is because I'm a control freak. I want to know where my files and I don't want other things In recent years, I've really come to appreciate started stepping on some of their default folders very hard in a way that is is actually causing some people data loss. Let's walk through exactly what I mean, Here we are in Windows 11, and I've got You can see that I've got quick access documents, videos, music, pictures. Those are the Windows default folders These folders all exist in For example, the Documents folder. You can see it says Stored locally involved in this mess. If I were to go to C:users, my username, askle, in this case. There is the Documents folder. This is the same folder. You can see here I've got Documents as Over here, I'm looking Takes me to exactly the same place. These are the standard folders. It's actually not a bad setup. I'm not really opposed to the organization but I am opposed to the fact that applications, make assumptions. Because of those assumptions, For example, if you were to enable and I have a video on that and an article the companion article to this video, Onedrive's backup feature, which is to enable, but that Microsoft is pushing even though you really don't want to. It then starts moving things from your As a result, you can run out if you have a free account. When that happens, you may get warnings, is going to delete files. You will suffer data loss. That is unacceptable. It's just unacceptable the folders that we use by default Therefore, I avoid them completely. The characterization that I use They crossed a line from to behavior, which is not. Because even if you accept the There's no way to basically turn off has made a bunch of assumptions and gone Definitely take a look at It describes what I'm complaining It is not simple, but it What do I do instead? Well, so If we take a look here of things, we have shortcuts The very first thing because I'm not going to use them. I'm not going to get rid of them applications may do some things with, With all of those gone, theoretically now, However, that's easily fixed. Once again, I'm going to go to This time, I'm going to create a folder. I'm going to call it my folder of documents. Then I'm going to right-click on it Boom. I now have a folder of my own devising with my own name that Windows honestly knows nothing about other It doesn't know that it's In fact, I could have called it I can use it for whatever I want to use it its pause off of what's in that folder. They won't and put it in OneDrive, than what I've asked them to do. Now, you can, of course, Again, your folders with your names and But by using those instead, personal documents folder of your own that is outside of the OneDrive folder, folders, you once again now There is one other little got you, may sometimes make the same assumptions They may assume that you in the Documents folder. They may assume that you want in the Documents folder within OneDrive. That's something you can usually change. In many applications, applications, the default location for documents You can change it to this folder to do with OneDrive, for example. Other applications don't necessarily what they do instead is they remember or the last place you opened a document. So as long as you do a file save to the location you really, Then the next time you try and save a to open a document, it will automatically Now, there's a lot more, obviously, to default folders and so forth. There's a lot of stuff that, honestly, roaming and app data local and all into applications and Windows itself But normally, those are things that are keep overhead information or settings or When it comes to my files, and I want things to happen to them And now you can do the same. For updates, for comments, and more, visit askleo.com/172543. I'm Leo Notenboom, and this is askleo.com. Thanks for watching.