Because now... they will do a check, and I hope not too in-depth. Interesting that I still feel quite comfortable and safe, surrounded by hundreds of kids who are still serving their sentence. How many people sleep here? New ones. Nine people. I'm in prison because I stabbed someone. I'm here for murder. Does it happen that someone offers you money for sex? Sometimes yes. Do you use condoms? Sometimes we use plastic. My name is Giuseppe, and I have a mission: Travel the world to meet the most extraordinary characters on the planet and ask him a simple question: What is happiness for you? Welcome to the &quot;HAPPINESS PROJECT&quot; My war on drugs won't stop until... Until the end of my mandate. So six years from now. Until the last drug dealer and drug lord are... The Philippines has a big problem: the shocking overcrowding of prisons. It all started in 2016. When, surprising all predictions, the little-known Rodrigo Duterte became the President of the Republic. Basing his political line on a single promise: War on drugs. Oh yes, because precisely in that period, the Philippines was on the brink of becoming a "narcostate," due to the affiliation of local gangs with the Mexican Sinaloa cartel. Duterte immediately established a new special police force &quot;The Ninja&quot;, who had orders to eliminate dealers or users of illegal drugs. A rather controversial order, because in a few months, he counted more than 30 thousand civilians killed by the police. His tactics of state terrorism generated an unprecedented level of violence. Dragging so many civilians to prison that the already very weak Philippine prison system collapses. In just six years of office, Duterte's authoritarian policies have brought the number of prisoners from more than 95 thousand to around 165 thousand. An increase of almost 75%. Today the country's prisons are so overcrowded that there is an average of one guard for every 400 inmates. In short, they are self-managed by the inmates themselves. We are about to enter the main prison in Manila, to document what it means to live and often even survive in one of the most overcrowded prisons in the world, and understand how the concept of happiness changes when your freedom is deprived. It would seem that we have done it, all we need is that gate to &quot;cross&quot; then we are inside the Manila prison. Let's see what happens. Waiting for me at the entrance is officer Jacob with a group of guards, who after having explained to me the extraction maneuvers from the prison in the event of a riot, they must ensure that I do not bring anything illegal into the facility. I'm a bit tense, because now they'll give me a check-up... I hope not too in-depth. Go there. Up there? Up there. He's checking everything, even though... I hid something inside my shoes, under the insole. Then it was, it was quite "light" in terms of control, but I'm sure that When they know there's an inmate coming in, they do a much more thorough check. Officer Jacob explained to me that sometimes they clearly have to check the whole body, and also... inside. Everyone you see is wearing a yellow shirt they are people deprived of liberty, i.e. PDL. We are climbing a tower, from which we will have the possibility of seeing the entire prison. How all the sectors are divided, and also understanding what the difficulties are because there are various gangs in the prison. The sectors are divided... So as not to let them meet and clash. Wow It looks more like an amusement park than a prison. That boy is working. Yes. There are cars inside, there are shops. Never seen anything like it. This is the southern sector. This is a dormitory with non-gang affiliated inmates, or as we call it "Querna". Querna. Yes, Querna. So those people chose not to affiliate with no gang here. Exact. Quernas is divided into three dormitories. We have dormitory one, dorm two and dorm four here. And here we also have the isolation and quarantine area for new arrivals. You can also find the internet point here in Quernas where they can communicate with the people they care about thanks to electronic communication. They have internet here!? We have an Internet connection here. Ok. They are allowed to use internet which. Then they also have a garden. They also have a garden. They also have a canteen to eat something. We also have a bakery there. A bakery! We also serve him bread. but I think I should expect much more than that from this one. Although the situation may seem under control from here on, with over 5,000 inmates crammed into a space designed to accommodate just 800. The Manila Penitentiary is on the verge of collapse, creating a potentially explosive situation. They are already making him count this entire sector. I'm just saying I don't see the end, there are so many prisoners in this sector that there's no end in sight to this... this column. "Mistakes are proof that you are trying" "A negative mind will never give you a positive life" But it's lunch time, I think they've already eaten. Now they are taking us to where they distribute food to understand how it works. I don't know what to be surprised about anymore, they also have TV to watch the news, films, Good morning. We arrived too late, and therefore they have already cooked, eaten, distributed, but on these little flames... They cook for 400 people, only people from this sector. The thing that surprises me most, however, is that they, for example like these guys, they can light a fire and warm themselves or eat which may be private or personal or brought to their families. Or something that they left over the day before, but they can make it freely, whenever they want, these stoves are for everyone. Extraordinary to think that the prisoners themselves help the guards keep everything under control, because there really aren't enough guards. There is one guard for every 500 prisoners, so of course the guards also have to rely on them. So that everything remains under control and at peace. Imagine if there wasn't this, this coordination, this, this support from them. It would be a war, every day. This is really interesting, the prisoners in this sector have 3 minutes a day, to call their families from these phones, but the conversations are public. Because there's an endless queue waiting to speak, and they have to perhaps call their wives, their children, talk in front of everyone... for 3 minutes, every day. You don't care what you can't have one private conversation? Maybe you want to call your wife or your children. Yes, it's always like this only for children. In reality they are conversations about children, about school. Things like that. A normal conversation. No... No secret conversations. Why are you here? I'm here for murder. Homocide! Yes. How many years of sentence? They've already given me 30 to 40 years. Give 30 you get 40. 20. From 20 to 40 years old. How does it feel to know this? It wasn't easy before, but now I have already accepted it. I often study the Bible, I go to church every Sunday. Now it's easy for me, it's all easier to bear. within these walls, the LGBTQ community She is deeply respected and protected. Nobody can touch them. Almost. I wonder if for your community, it's even more difficult live here because you are surrounded by thousands of men. Maybe they can think of abuse or use you. How is it living here? It all depends on you. If you want to have sex, you can show the other person that you want it, but if you don't like it, they won't abuse you, all of us gays here... What we want is to love, be loved, respect and be respected. It depends on us, if we like the boy and he offers his room, maybe it's small but it has its privacy, we basically go there. But if a guy doesn't have a room and we like each other let's go to the bathroom. Ok OK well Does it happen that someone offers you money for sex? Sometimes. Yes sometimes. And do you accept? Yes. If you like. Yes, if you like him, if the guy is cute. Yes, yes. Otherwise... I'm busy, I have something to do. You have a headache! Yes, yes I don't feel well... And what about safety? Do you use condoms? Yes, we use plastic from time to time. Really? No, no, I'm joking. We have a supply of condoms. Condoms and lubricants. Lubricants, okay. And then everyone gets tested for HIV. Happens that your kids have a family outside? Yes, yes Yes. They have wives. Maybe it's love that will last as long as they are here in prison. Yes. So it happens that maybe someone is not gay, but inside wants a bit of cuddles and finds it with you. Yes. I'm really, really curious to know why you are here. I stole cars. How many cars have you stolen in your life? More than a hundred. One hundred! So can you open one like this? Yes. Because you never stole the cars what are here? There are a lot of gates. there are times when employees they ask me to help them. With maintenance. Really? To fix cars, motorbikes. The other day I was fixing a motorbike. What did you do? 5-11? Yes, 5-11. 5 is drug sales and 11 is consumption. I admit I used drugs, but I never sold them. You did not. But I'm still here. I do not know. How long have you been here? Since two months. Two months. They gave me a 5-11, but without proof, nothing. So I use drugs and deal drugs. Yes. But what is happiness personally for you? Happiness for me I believe that I can only feel happiness if I do or I can do whatever I want. Happiness is freedom. Happiness is freedom. We still can we can still feel the happiness here. But outside it is completely different. But I always believe that I'm here in Manila prison for redemption. So I agreed to be here so that I know what I'll do outside if I can get out of here. Here are those who are part of the LGBT group she has a dream: to be truly treated like women. Out we have never heard anything like it. But here in the Manila Penitentiary I think that for all of us, I'm not just talking about my happiness, but for all of us, whether to be treated like queens, respected, treated like real wives, real girls, real women. We don't need to do anything here, it's our partners, the men who need to take care of us. This prison never ceases to amaze me, even some of these prisoners feel freer to be who they really are in here compared to the world beyond the walls. But this is the reality of one sector, namely that of prisoners not affiliated with any gang, entering another sector literally means accessing a world of its own, with totally different rules and hierarchies depending on the gang. The leader of each sector is called Mayores and with his subordinates he self-manages his dormitory without any interference from the guards. How did you become a Mayore? By popular election. I got there step by step. Supervisore, "senior" and poi "seniors" How long have you been here? Almost 4 years. 4 years. What did you do to be here? Drug. Drug. Did you sell it or did you even use it? For me. Only for you? Yes. What kind of drug? Methamphetamine? Yes, but there was no proof. It's incredible that most of them are here for taking drugs, and few of them, even for having passed them off, but this is the best they have done but for example this gentleman has been here for 4 years. simply for taking methamphetamine. The rules in the Philippines regarding drugs are very harsh. They are showing us all the rules of this gang that are written here. They are in Filipino, we don't understand them but now we'll have them explained to us. You are not allowed to kill another gang member, whether inside or outside prison. 50 times. If you kill your companion. All right. The second? You can't steal another gang member's wife. One and two. One and two. Yes. Those are the most important. The others are simple punishments. Punishments. But the first two... ...they have heavy punishments. Ok. Symbol: question mark. Anyone else have "Bahala na gang"? All of them. You who. In other parts. Look at them. Everyone. And you did it in here? Out. "Cyber Comunication Center" this is the prison's internet point. It's incredible, that is, all prisoners can enter here and connect to the internet. However, the most important thing we must remember when browsing online is: Always surf protected, with NORD VPN. In the description below the video I left you a link thanks to which with just one subscription you can keep the whole family's browsing safe. Protecting up to 6 devices simultaneously with NORD VPN apps. Because if while you watch this video you don't have an active VPN, your IP address, your browsing history, location and other sensitive personal data they can be used to bombard you with spam ads, or worse, steal your identity. What NORD VPN does instead is hide your IP, and therefore, all your personal information from bad guys so much so that, thanks to their &quot;NO LOG&quot; policy, not even NORD VPN can track or record your traffic. You become practically invisible. So with just a few euros a month your privacy is safe, and you basically have a virtual shield that blocks malicious sites, online trackers and annoying ads, while obviously also checking your files downloaded to avoid viruses and malware. Not bad I'd say. And as always I leave you the link in the description to get the best offer on the market and try NORD VPN and always browse in complete safety. And now, let's get back to our tour of the prison. We're going with... let's say the mayor's right hand man inside... the dormitory. Let's see what it's like. I understand now what the symbol is, they do this because this is a question mark. That's the point... and the question. So these are and bedroom? Yes, these are the dorms We have a population of 600 people. Only in this sector. Yes, for this sector. How many people are here? Hey guys. If I'm not mistaken we have 670. Can I come in? Yes. Please. Come in, come in! Do you just sleep here? All the rest of the time you are out of this cell. Yes. Really because... like this, seeing like this, There seems to be no room, let's see. Two like this and the other two? Ah, they build it. Thank you guys. Thank you. Hello lads. Everything OK? How many people sleep here? 9. 9 people. You are organized. They have TV. Here. HI. Vip. Vip. Hey friend. Ok, ok, good. Here I am. Do you have your own room here? Yes this is my room. How many people sleep there? A. Only me. Why? Why... Are you paying for anything? Yes, I pay. And you can sleep in it yourself. Yes. As I imagined, money buys anything. Also a good bed. In jail. Okay, guys. Thank you. HI. Here are the common bathrooms. They are used by all 600 people. Okay, this is... Ok this is the bathroom, eh! Javier, why are you here? You know, I've been caught in various places using drugs... things like that. You were just using it, right? Yes, I was before. But at that time I was arrested. But you never sold it. No, don't. Do not. Interestingly, I feel quite comfortable, and confident. Surrounded by hundreds of... of kids who are still serving a sentence, and there is no guard. But everything seems to be under control. Although... from what the guards also told me, the situation it could change at any moment. A spark could make... change... These faces that now seem half-smiling. Another... another state of mind, but now, all things considered, everything is ok. Hello lads. Divided by a wall of a few centimeters, the worst enemies of the Bahalana gang are detained who agreed to let me enter their sector too. I'm entering the most dangerous sector, that of Sputnik, and another gang. And apparently they are the most dangerous. There is a billiards table here too, right inside the sector. There is a television there And also a barber This is our barber people they are allowed to come and get their hair cut here and it's all free. Your colleague is checking if... It is monitoring the activity and checking if everything is done correctly and safely. It's no longer dangerous for a woman, a female officer to work in a male dormitory? I've been working here since almost four years. Have you ever felt in danger? No. Not even once. Yes. I simply prayed before coming to work. In this industry they have everything Even the gym. This is the basketball court on the second floor. And their TV is there too. They have TV and a makeshift gym there. They do what they want here They also have a basketball court... The terrace! and a gym down there. While the others are watching a movie. Incredible! incredible, I never imagined I would find it a prison like this. What is the symbol of this gang? The symbols of this gang are the four dots, a spaceship. This one. And this. The rabbit. Each of them has the sputnik gang tattoo which are either the five dots Or the spaceship or a rabbit with one ear raised and another lowered. And each of them must have it for show, to demonstrate their, their loyalty and affiliation for the gang to which they belong Here too they have a mayor And his name is Eric Nunez, it's written right there on the wall. He is the Mayore, then there is the second All the names are there, the whole hierarchy of this new gang called Sputnik It's written there And they obviously have the magna carta too, and their 10 rules to follow so that they can be part of this gang. Because if here, what's your story? Am I allowed to talk about it sir? I assume so. What is your case? It's about revolt. Where? In a Bureau case. What case? Two murders. Oh right, the murders. Do you plead guilty or innocent? I am innocent, sir. Innocent. Yes. This prisoner tells us how his imprisonment is less burdensome since he became a sort of stepfather for the youngest inmate in the prison. And so very curious we ask this boy to tell us his story. What's your story? I was imprisoned because I stabbed a person. Someone broke into our house, then my gang betrayed me. Since I've been here no one has ever come to visit me, not even once. Do you feel alone here? Partially yes. I have cellmates and a foster father here who take care of me. What do you miss most about your old life? My parents. I would like to help them. I would like to find a job to be able to help them. Do you have someone waiting for you outside? Do you have someone waiting for you outside? Who? Your enemies? Nobody, just my parents. Does staying here make you feel like a criminal? Or did you just make a mistake? I'm here because of my mistake, because I stabbed someone. I didn't mean it, it was self-defense. They're taking us to their dorm now. Hey guys. Are they praying? Here there is a small mosque, they are praying. I don't know how he does it here. This one is much heavier than the other one. Hello lads. I sleep there. Good afternoon. How many of you sleep here? 20. 20. 20 people. And where do you sleep? Turn on the light. This is your bed. Well. Is this all you have? Don't you have any other things with you? When I got here I had nothing. These are things left behind by old cellmates. Thank you! Thank you. My father is "Champaloloy". "Champaloloy". Handsome. who come to visit him, he took it as a point of reference, and therefore, it is the one who protects him, the one who helps him in difficult times. And here I assure you that there are many. For example, this room has a very strong odor, there is an incredible smell of pee, I don't know, I don't know why, but I think there are no bathrooms and maybe just maybe they do it in bottles. Okay, guys, thanks so much. Thank you. Thank you. I just hope that in a prison where gangs rule the roost, a boy so young can find the determination to believe that there is a life beyond his pain. A life without crime. But as I exit the sputnik sector, among a group of prisoners I notice one who among the thousands of yellow shirts, looks like an alien. What did you do, why are you in prison? In Australia I have an arrest warrant for conspiracy to import cocaine from South America to Australia. But in the Philippines I have no crime. It's just for the extradition law that keep me here. Because you were been caught here? No, I was captured in Australia, but I ran away from Australia and they took me here. Have you escaped from prison? No, I didn't run away. I was out on bail. I bought a sailboat I packed it and left and I sailed all over the world for 2 years. And then... But they found me here after two years. Just to explain. I'm not in a gang. So yeah, the area we're going to now it's for everyone who isn't in gangs. All right. All right. There are about 500 of us. Instead these areas are gangs. I live in that dorm over there. Can I see your dorm? Right. All right. This is the common area. Get all the way to the bottom where you see the lights. I'll take you there. My room is over there. Ok. So during the day, this area is common, but at night, here there are all people sleeping. Ok, do they sleep everywhere? Yes, everywhere. If you see a cardboard box, folded How's that. That's a bed. A boy sleeps there. And you don't mess with someone's cartoon. It's like a mattress, you hold it like a mattress. Keeps dirt and cold away. So if you, if you touch someone's mattress, if you touch it, they get angry. Here the government practically throws you in and closes the door. And then in here people create their own community. Yes. Actually my room is quite good, because I just had it renovated. I paid the boys in here, there are carpenters, painters, I paid them, bought some materials and then I paid them to renovate it for me. I'll show you. Yes. These are my cats. I have cats. Ignore the floor because I have to change it to these tonight. But they put in the wooden parts and painted. This is probably the most... the best I've seen. So it's a bit of a mess due to yesterday's renovation. Yes. The mattress just needs to be folded then I have sheets and everything and then I sleep well. Well. Yes. A fan, light for reading books. So you were an international criminal... Fugitive. Fugitive. Yes. I ran away for two years. I went to about five other countries before coming here. But then I decided to stay here and then they arrested me. Then I stayed here for two years, and then they found me. How did they find you? I do not know. I do not know. They found me somehow the Australian Federal Police. I went from being rich like a millionaire to have almost nothing. Now I live alone in prisons. If I asked you... are you guilty? Yes, the crime is conspiracy. Means make a plan, but don't do it. Yes. That's why I was arrested. So we were there was a group of we who were captured we made a plan to bring cocaine from South America to Australia. We've been caught before that something would happen. But in Australia it is still a life sentence crime. Life imprisonment. It's more than murder, actually. How many kilos were you planning on... 100 chili. 100 chili. This was the plan. Why did you do that? You already had the money. In 2007 I almost failed because of a mistake I made with some managers that I employed and I was a few million dollars in debt. So I had the money. But then they lost them. And then me I got rid of it and then came back. And then I started having it again over the next two years. And then the global financial crisis strikes again. And I'm back to being broke again, not just broke, but millions of dollars in debt. So after two years of recovery global financial crisis of 2009, and down again, and that was the moment I searched another alternative to help me get out of debt of approximately two million dollars. It is a choice dictated by desperation. Yes, but that's where it's ironic and this is the life lesson for a lot of people. I didn't earn a cent and yet look at the price I paid. I've actually been out of debt since 2009 until 2011, when I was arrested. Alone, thanks to a normal legal activity and then I was arrested and all this happened so I didn't need it. And so I think the life lesson is that the crime is... it can be a short term solution, but it will be very rarely. You will normally pay a higher price and it won't be the solution and there will be other solutions which are legal. So it is better to follow the legal route. But it's fine. You know, it's not like that... It's a blessing in disguise, they are blessings in disguise. I'm actually happier here than what I was in Australia and in Australia when I had my own business, I was under a lot of stress. I had money, of course, but at the end of the day It does not mean anything. And then I wasn't married, I hadn't had children At that time. Getting arrested actually led me, to get married and have children because I understood that... what meaning does my life have if I won't have children, and then, but, you know, I lost everything else, but it went well. What is the most important lesson What have you learned after being locked up for so long? The greatest lesson... I think it's something that Most people don't understand how valuable it is freedom. It won't be until you're arrested and you lose it, you realize how important and precious it is. And then you have no control over your life. Since then. Just your attitude. And when you are private of one's freedom... Yes. What is the meaning of happiness? I heard a saying once, and it's true, you can be in a prison without being in prison. Happiness is more than being free out of a prison, have your freedom out of prison. It is also necessary live the life you want to live out. If you have a series of problems and restrictions in your life outside, then it is like being in prison. But you're not even in prison. Marcus is right, prisons often don't need to be built of concrete and metal but can be invisible, in our heads, made of fears that force us to give up our dreams, to our passions, and even to our true identity. This man, like many others, is paying a high price for the mistakes of a lifetime. Dreaming of one day being free, physically, because, ironically, it is right within these walls who learned that true freedom is a state of mind. It is the ability to find hope even in the darkest moments. To dream even when it seems impossible and to love even when surrounded by hate. Maybe it's really true that the greatest risk is living in prison even when you are truly free to live your life, but this also means that we have the power to free ourselves, to break the chains that hold us back and embrace life with all its splendor and uncertainty