The substance of things unseen. Cities, past and future. In Oxford, perhaps and look in the looking glass to try and see our true selves, or perhaps pass through to another world. Or, in the words of F. Scott Fitzgerald, &quot;As the moon rose higher, the inessential houses began to melt away until gradually I became here that once flowered a fresh green breast of the new world.&quot; My colleagues and I to rediscover this lost world in a project we call We're trying to discover on the afternoon of September 12th, 1609, when he sailed into New York harbor. And I'd like to tell you and if I have time still, an epilogue. So, Act I: A Map Found. So, I didn't grow up in New York. I grew up out west in the in the Red Rock Canyon. And from these early I learned to love landscapes. And so when it became time I studied this emerging field Landscape ecology concerns itself with how the stream and the meadow make habitats for plants and animals. This experience and this training lead me to get a wonderful job which works to save wildlife And over the last decade, I traveled to over 40 countries to see jaguars and bears and elephants and tigers and rhinos. But every time I would return And on my weekends I would go up, to the top of the Empire State Building, and I'd look down on this landscape, and I'd wonder, &quot;How does this landscape work to make habitat How does it work to make habitat I'd go to Times Square and I'd look and wonder why nobody is looking I'd go to Central Park and see come up against the abrupt and sheer topography of midtown Manhattan. I started reading about the history I read that New York City a city of 10 million people I started seeing paintings like this. For those of you who are from New York, this is 125th street (Laughter) It was once a beach. has John James Audubon, And it's looking up on the wooded heights to Jeffrey's Hook, where the George Or this painting, from the 1740s, Those are two students at King's College -- sitting on a hill, overlooking a valley. And so I'd go down to Greenwich and I couldn't find it. What's that palm tree doing there? (Laughter) So, it was in the course of these investigations And it's this map you see here. It's held in a geographic information system which allows me to zoom in. This map isn't from Hudson's time, 170 years later, made by during the occupation of New York City. And it's a remarkable map. And it's 10 feet long and And if I zoom in to lower Manhattan you can see the extent right at the end of the American Revolution. Here's Bowling Green. And this is City Hall Park. So the city basically extended And just beyond it you can see features that have vanished, This is the Collect Pond, which was for its first 200 years, and for the Native Americans You can see the Lispenard Meadows draining down through here, and the beaches that all the way to 42nd St. This map was made for military reasons. They're mapping the roads, that they built. But they're also mapping also military interest: the hills, the marshes, the streams. This is Richmond Hill, which used to run its way Or the swamp at Gramercy Park, right here. Or Murray Hill. on Murray Hill, 200 years ago. Here is Times Square, the two streams that came in Times Square, as it was So I saw this remarkable map in a book. And I thought to myself, &quot;You know, if I could place this map I could find these lost features of the city, in the block-by-block the geography of where people and where they like to eat.&quot; So, after some work which allows us to put and the buildings, and the open spaces, so that we can zoom in We can digitize the Collect and see where they actually are So this is fun relative to the old topography. But I had another idea about this map. If we take away the streets, and if we take away the open spaces, then we could take this map. If we pull off the 18th century features we could drive it back in time. We could drive it back to the hills, to the streams, to the basic hydrology the basic aspects that Then, if we added maps and the surface geology, if we make the soil map, with the 17 soil classes, that are defined by if we make a digital elevation model of the topography then we can calculate the slopes. We can calculate the aspect. We can calculate the so, which way the winter The white areas on this map We compiled all the information And we built a probability map So, the red areas that are best for human places that are close to water, places that are near the harbor to fish, places protected from the winter winds. We know that there was a Lenape settlement down here by the Collect Pond. And we knew that they that they grew these beautiful gardens the &quot;Three Sisters&quot; garden. So, we built a model that explains And the old fields, the successional fields that go. And we might think of these as abandoned. But, in fact, they're grassland habitats for grassland birds and plants. And they have become and these then mix in And it turns out that Manhattan You can think of these as neighborhoods, as distinctive as TriBeCa that these are the forest and the wetlands and the marine communities, the beaches. And 55 is a lot. On a per-area basis, Manhattan had more ecological communities per acre than Yosemite does, than Yellowstone, than Amboseli. It was really an extraordinary landscape that was capable of supporting So, Act II: A Home Reconstructed. So, we studied the fish and the frogs the 85 different kinds of fish the Heath hens, the species the beavers on all the streams, and the Native Americans, and thought about their landscape. We wanted to try and map these. was we mapped their habitat needs. Where do they get their food? Where do they get their water? Where do they get their To an ecologist, the intersection but to most people, So, we would read in field guides, that maybe you have on your shelves, you know, what beavers need is, with aspen trees and alders and willows, near the water.&quot; So we just started making a list. Here is the beaver. and the aspen and the alder As if these were the maps to predict where you would find the beaver. Or the bog turtle, needing wet meadows Or the bobcat, needing rabbits And rapidly we started to realize something that a bobcat needs. But a beaver also needs things. on either side means that that we can create the network of the habitat relationships Moreover, we realized as being a beaver specialist, but you can look up what an aspen needs. An aspen needs fire and dry soils. And you can look at And it need beavers and maybe some other things. But you can also talk So, what does a sunny place need? But what are the conditions Or fire. Or dry soils. And that you can put these across the top and 1,000 rows And then we can visualize like a social network. And this is the network of all the plants and animals and everything they needed, going back to the geology, going back to time and space We call this the Muir Web. Each point is a different species or a different stream And those little gray lines are the connections They are the connections And the structure of this seen with all its parts. We call these Muir Webs John Muir, who said, &quot;When we try we find that it's bound fast that cannot be broken, So then we took the Muir webs So if we wanted to go between 85th and 86th, and Lex and Third, maybe there was a stream in that block. And these would be the kind of trees and the flowers and the lichens the butterflies, the fish in the stream, the birds in the trees. Maybe a timber rattlesnake lived there. And perhaps a black bear walked by. And then we took this data. You can see this for yourself You can zoom into and see what might have And we used it to try here in Act III. We used the tools they use in Hollywood to make these fantastic landscapes And we tried to use it to visualize Third Avenue. So we would take the landscape We'd lay on top of that the soils and the waters, We would lay on top of that And feed into that the map of the species. So that we would actually take a photograph, flying above Times Square, waiting for Hudson to come. Using this technology, we can make these fantastic georeferenced views. We can basically take a picture on Manhattan and see what that landscape This is the view from the East River, at where the United Nations is today. This is the view looking with Manhattan on the left, looking out toward the Atlantic Ocean. This is the view over Times Square, with the beaver pond there, So we can see the Collect Pond, We can see the fields And we can see this So when you're watching &quot;Law and Order,&quot; they could have walked of the New York Court House, 400 years ago. So these images are the work Mark Boyer, who is here And I'd just like, if you would to call out for his fine work. (Applause) There is such power in bringing that we can create images like this, perhaps looking on either And even though I've only I hope you appreciate that The place that you see here was interconnected. It had this resilience that is But I wouldn't have you think on the right, which I quite do. and its kind of diversity, and its dependence on density In fact, that I see them much as Lewis Carroll did We can compare these two and hold them that they really are the same place, that there is no way that cities And I think this is what we're learning So if you'll allow me a brief epilogue, but about 400 years from now, what we're realizing is that cities are habitats for people, and need to supply what people need: a sense of home, food, water, shelter, reproductive resources, This is the particular additional And so many of the talks here about bringing meaning to our lives in all kinds of different ways, through technology, through art, through science, so much so that I think that side of our lives, attention to the food and the water and what we need to raise the kids. So, how can we envision Well, what if we go and we imagine it without all the cars, and bicycles instead and large forests, and streams instead What if we imagined the Upper East Side with green roofs, and streams and windmills supplying Or if we imagine the New York currently home to 12 million people, but 12 million people in the future, in only 36 percent of the area, with the areas in between covered by wetlands, covered by the marshes we need. This is the kind of future I think we need, is a future that has the same diversity and abundance and dynamism of Manhattan, but that learns from the of the ecology, the original ecology, Thank you very much. (Applause)