(Putting on boots) Let's... go for a walk. And let's slow things down a bit. And take notice of the world right beneath our feet. In these miniature environments, vast dramas unfold, if we could become part of these sagas? In under two centimeters tall, and experience level. And though the Pikmin universe is more lore makes it ideal for study. So, let's shrink In a flash of light, our ship arrives planetside. planet Earth. But this is not the Earth of strange new orders of life have emerged. planet. It is our job to catalogue this world -- Fortunately, we are not alone in our specifically. These friendly local lifeforms will what are Pikmin? It's a question we can't answer will take time to formulate a theory. Let's start together. Like ants or termites, they're eusocial whole. While one group of Pikmin is defending from or even building a simple structure. We also to carry objects much larger than their bodies. strength relative to their size. Where Pikmin reproduction. Pikmin are 'born' from a strange, periodically release seeds into the air, which an unusual process that we'll need to know more The first region we've landed in is the this area seems peaceful at a glance. But there A member of the Grub-Dog family, Bulborbs come bottomless appetites. One of the most successful manner of environments, and filled all manner for example, has a feeding method similar to an its long, sticky tongue. We are fortunate to have bay. But Bulborbs are far from the only danger. manners and hot tempers. When threatened, they can snouts, which combusts immediately upon contact as flame-proof cellulose in their skin it's best we give Blowhogs... a wide berth. More caverns beneath the terrace, unique subterranean Unlike their fiery relatives, they prefer to able to expel a compound similar to dry ice from complex chemistry of their siblings altogether, in into prey. These caves are also home to the from the ground in droves. Like Pikmin, there are possessing wings, and others long snouts ideal swarming. To a human sized lifeform, these insects the bugs now. Back on the surface, Flint Beetles - descendants of butterflies, thrive in large these familiar species have a newfound grandeur. surroundings. The Sun-Speckled Terrace seems to be feels like crossing a vast, mountainous terrain. ...There's a creek near the place where I grew and as I walked, I stopped at random points and at first. But it made me realize something. everyone knows there's lots of bugs out there -- I still felt so different to actually see them all. it made me wonder how many hidden worlds I walk another microecosystem in Pikmin. It appears but like the Terrace, this ordinary place lens. Fortunately, the Yellow Pikmin are here naturally resistant to electric currents, able catfish. And it's a good thing too, because electrical punch. This unusual specimen is a these territorial creatures will sometimes formidable electric field. The Yellow Pikmin, Leaves fall in more peaceful regions of the and you might be surprised. These are Skitter name when poked. Because they often camouflage in reaction that causes the entire colony to panic. A species that will not extend this courtesy member of the Amphituber family, they possess lifeforms. We'll have to move fast to stay a furry companion. This is Oatchi. A loyal canine we don't know much about his biology. But I I'm less fond of the Waddlequaff. These feathered muscles to suck in large volumes of air through if a frustrating one to be on the other end of a Joustmite. A burrowing insect, Joustmites disturbs their slumber clean through -- including behavior similar to the Swooping Snitchbug, who back in the ground. And if these fluttering pests of insects, the bioelectric Anode Beetles of the with each other to create a discharge too powerful up for the task. But there are some challenges fledglings are Downy Snagrets, and probably don't babies -- and their parent is close by. From the bird has converged upon the niche of an ambush them the tyrant rulers of the Blossoming Arcadia. Maybe we'll have better luck on the coast. seem quite peaceful. There's just one problem. some kind of specialist. The Blue Pikmin a mouth-like gill membrane, these Pikmin can with all manner of aquatic life. They're Skimming on top of the water is a graceful Skeeterskates use hydrophobic hairs on their feet a sac atop their heads, which they'll regurgitate than eaten whole. Water Dumples are unassuming behavior makes more sense when you consider their their appetite seems almost quaint compared to the their life as tiny nuisances, they soon grow into creature for those who enjoy long walks on the to look out for. Hermit Crawmads are ambush from their burrow, before awkwardly wobbling back Crawmads have lost their shells entirely, and as coast. If a Crawmad fails in their initial attack, Other ambush predators have a less subtle, Cannon Larva will regurgitate large stones from minerals to support the bacteria in their gut -- a that consume limestone for the same reason. A offensive tactic. Not every animal on the Serene relatively peaceful creatures that swim in schools seemingly calm semi-aquatic species. But trigger more to these clams than meets the eye. Clamclamps pearls as bait to ensnare unlucky prey. They're There's a region of the Serene Shores that you can encounter Jellyfloats, strange likely due to some internal gas bladder. Yet while giant floating predators, when I encounter them, I uncanny it is that an ecosystem has formed around facing down the Crusted Rumpup. The apex predator and charges blindly at any potential meal. Not evading this goliath, I found myself once again to make its home in an abandoned sandcastle. past define the present. The same can be said shape of each ecosystem determined by junk The landscape of the creek from my childhood is bottles lie on the banks. I did my best to clean come. The creek itself isn't even a natural stream overflow changes the shape of micro-environments not even knowing they exist. Nowhere in Pikmin next region, which takes place entirely within with unique life. The mighty Purple Pikmin are obstacles can be crushed under their considerable creatures teeter about. These oddities are called that resemble, well, bread. Breadbugs can be seen due to some nesting instinct. The real mystery, look like a common food item? The Giant Breadbug deepening the mystery. Considering that camouflage it is probable that the Breadbugs Another culinary creature oozes across the yet is actually a kind of protochordate, a type egg that's not too difficult to scramble. But you start a fight with a Mammoth Snootwacker. deter predators. But if they still don't get the for a devastating strike. When a species asks for plumbing systems below this house, a secondary creatures like the Pricklepuff, a pufferfish-like help keep us from needing to get our feet wet. a walkable surface. In-game scientists assume th it's more likely they have biological components much like a Snowy Blowhog, although we still need a proper hypothesis regarding their biology. With the Hydro Dweevil. These crab-like insects have a emergence of such a behavior across all Dweevil has had on evolutionary processes. But other reason. The Gildemandwee possess a sweet-smelling, And while juvenile Gildemandwees have a somewhat prepared to ask for seconds. The vast growths on on their heads mean that even the wariest Yet there is one species so wary, not even a mean this cautious creature is defenseless. The the Pikmin world. These molten disks might are actually a type of mollusk -- a connection their periscopic stalk eyes. Scorchcakes create shells -- a strategy similar to the Pyroclasmic might be the Scorchcake's close relative. Though they flash bright colors to ward off any predator the most well defended creature of all is the most formidable creatures in this entire region, Porquillion runs out, however, they must retreat process expends considerable energy, and means the Since we don't want that to be us, we'll try Giant's Hearth. And right away, it's clear that Bulbears are Bulborb relatives that are even more particularly tough Pikmin to brave this ecosystem. Pikmin. These stony fellows are so strong, they how does an organism made of stone function? In is actually just an outer shell of inorganic And when you consider that many modern organisms such an adaptation doesn't seem so far-fetched. a Bloomcap Bloyster. These hungry mollusks Their smaller cousins, the Toady Bloysters, can be deceiving. This is one species that Other organisms have changed little over the remain just as skilled as their ancestors, Underground, little understood arthropods called crystals have useful properties, and Winged Pikmin but Winged Pikmin are deceptively strong. This up to 91 percent of their bodyweight in nectar still holds many secrets. Deeper underground, we come from. They appear to begin their life as tiny an adult is close by. This is an Empress Bulbax, bearing children like the queen of an ant colony. opponents with its sheer bulk -- rolling directly Empress Bulbax prefers to peacefully snooze. In until the player stumbles by. ...I loved looking insects in their natural state. Except... I wasn't was seeing their panic mode after their home had I acted less like an observer, and more like an play Pikmin. You might have noticed throughout to motivate them into doing something interesting the ecosystem; you're more pushing it into doing pushes back. Explore at night, and we'll find and animals becoming more aggressive. Your mysterious Glow Pikmin, who seem to be ghosts. straight up ghosts. So, I don't know how their are another grave reminder that there's still I found footprints by the creek the last time I the truth is I don't know what kind of animal they encounter something like the Mamuta -- a strange, animals I've encountered. Other than the fact it biology or lineage. Perhaps the final region has undergrowth teeming with life more dangerous than forest floor, and thick clouds of spores can block thanks to their natural immunity to the spores' as they've overtaken the bodies of many animals potential insight into the mysteries of Pikmin to be a combination of both fungus and animal. Startle Spore, the fungal parasites seem to Startle Spore has a cousin, in the form of And something about how the Chrysanthemum More on that in a moment... One species that seems Grubchucker. These bipedal creatures snag prey into the mouth on top of their heads. The food is We must also avoid cloudy water, for the primitive eyes, these creatures seem to be Yet the last new creature we'll visit today is far the largest member of the Grub-Dog family. sticky tongues, and can swallow up many unwary a rich carpet of plant matter on their backs that another example of plant and animal symbiosis that all we've seen, the Pikmin may be . . . hybrids plants like the Creeping Chrysanthemum. There's turned into plant hybrids after exposure to an evolved to become heavily intertwined with their proposes that Pikmin are entirely plants, and seems... less likely, as is often the case with Though the time has come to leave this particular perspective and the mysteries that remain. its secrets. Like a child turning over rocks, an outsider making assumptions. But it's a ecosystems just below you. And I've left plenty if you're interested in exploring this world If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on