Translator: RUOSENG LUSHANG Sometimes, it really does feel like when we think about debt crisis, political stalemates, energy, the environment, the food we're feeding our families. But I don't think And today I'm going to talk But I also want this to be an example - an example for us as leaders, an example for how we can think about how some of our generation's can be converted into some I want to start I want you to raise your hand five years ago. Wow! A lot - more than half. We're going to need that experience. Five years ago, I wasn't. Five years ago, I was running a business that improved the supply chains I had a singular goal which was to maximize the efficiencies And let me tell you, I am programmed I have a license plate (Laughter) It's true. I do. When I followed my passion and dug into the produce supply chain, I encountered a system Our produce supply chain all at the same time. First, here's how it's efficient. It produces huge quantities And here's how it's inefficient. Our fresh produce but it can't uphold taste at all. In fact, we grow produce for travel The system breeds foodborne illness, Our fresh produce supply chain to the point that it's an enormous and natural gas. The more I learned, that for all the good intentions parts of our food supply chain they're toxic. If TED is about inspiration - I was inspired to rethink I was more than inspired. I was compelled to develop one that eliminated these inefficiencies and that prioritized farmers, and still produced large quantities I want to make a full stop I want to ask each one of you you've had in the last year. Do you have it? I want you to raise your hand (Laughter) I can't believe that there's really zero. (Laughter) Although I am not surprised that it People typically visualize probably a lot of that - gardens and restaurants. Virtually nobody, or perhaps in this case, even when I asked that question (Laughter) I'm serious. The tomato I visualized my beautiful daughter Emilia, Emilia and I like to discuss how the most and how you find love in the food for someone they care about personally. Emilia's tomato that I'm visualizing look a lot like this tomato. And the tomato I visualized it was bursting with love. And this tomato? Sucks! (Laughter) I'm serious. That tomato was awful. (Laughter) It was organic. It was expensive. We bought it at a fancy supermarket So why does it lack taste? And nutrition too, by the way - And what does that tell us about that we're buying These tomatoes They bounced here to New York No wonder they suck. That's typical, by the way, Did you know that nearly 100 percent come from just two places? Near Salinas, California, in the summer These lettuces travel 3,000 miles It's no surprise that lettuce is prone or right when people bring it home. This causes huge losses for supermarkets, and it makes my wife, which makes me unhappy. (Laughter) Produce executives, produce buyers, They've actually got families of their own and they're good people. But they're not just good people - They want to bring you quality produce, but they need to buy large quantities And right now, there's only which is our industrialized Incrementalism isn't going to do it. Moving food faster or better isn't going to solve these problems. It's time for a revolution Can you imagine a revolutionary new system fewer tasteless tomatoes, that had less foodborne illness, Can you imagine where we went back to our roots and grew and sold produce by a farmer who, like Emilia, And maybe even with a little bit of love. You think that'll be better? Do you think that'll be better? (Audience) Yes. We think so at BrightFarms too. And you know who else does? Produce buyers In fact, nearly 20 percent are already working with BrightFarms to try to make this revolutionary The industry is reacting Produce buyers sincerely want to bring to their customers. They just need a better option. So, how is BrightFarms going to do this? How are we going to bring that's better quality It sounds hard, but the answer We're building greenhouse farms, but it's how we're building them We're building them at supermarkets, on their roofs, and always in their communities. BrightFarms provides a turnkey solution. We finance it, we build it, we manage it in a way that cuts time, distance We're building hydroponic, and recruiting farmers across the country Here's how the deal works. We put up the money, we find, we nurture, we support, The supermarket is required They merely commit to buying That's not enough, by the way. Zero investment doesn't satisfy their requirements. There's another factor, If we can't meet or beat this is going to remain And I'm not interested in the fringe. I am interested in making a difference. But we can meet or beat existing prices. We do it by having a shorter More than half the cost it's the long and complex supply chain We simply operate without that long so we have lower operating costs We can sell at low enough prices This is a case where less is truly more. So, is our business model working? It is. We actually just recently announced the industry's first It's with a great supermarket We're building them a greenhouse And I want all of you to go there Jim McCaffrey, like many cares deeply about his customers. He's not just a great businessman. He's a visionary as well. And he had a vision to commit that's bringing better tomatoes to his store shelves And by the way, we care as much as Jim does. We're not going to be anonymous, Our farmer won't be 3,000 miles away. He'll be three blocks away from the store. He'll be living, sending his kids to school, in the same community and shopping in the same produce aisles When we started - earlier, I said I've been inspired by many of you here And I hope I've had the chance inspire you to not be discouraged with the supply chains but instead, to think as opportunities to start And in our case, a revolutionary opportunity that's safer, healthier, tastier, and bursting with the most important (Applause)