My name is Kenneth Valentine, veteran of the United including protecting and this is everything that Truth is that the Secret Everything we do is on the front page of the news every single day. And so when you have a success, we shrink into the darkness. People don't even think about you. If you have a failure, The Butler, Pennsylvania, shooting has been difficult on many fronts. We failed. The Secret Service failed. The first and foremost is that one person died inside a secured event. Three other people, were wounded inside that event. There's just no way you when shots are fired into what is supposed I was actually clued in by because I was in the who was about to have open heart surgery, and I had to commandeer the TV in the room from her bedside roommate and put it on a news show to I have to assume that we that we did not pay attention to detail, which is, one of the mantras of the presidential protection detail is to pay attention to detail. And that's one of the failures is not only was he able to get off rounds, but he was able to focus in, to see the protectee and to put those shots So that's actually multiple failures. You don't want to be reacting because those bullets if you hear it. When the prevention doesn't your job is to cover the protectee and then to evacuate that protectee, and the cover looked outstanding. The reaction by the detail was very good. They were very fast. It was fearless, as it should be. Their training kicked in and they did exactly what we train to do, which is get on top of that Put them down behind where they can't take another intentional, focused shot at the protectee. There are a myriad of ways and should have been prevented Shipping containers If you can't use a shipping container, which is going to stop the bullets, could you use a flag? Could you turn that stage to where the back of the stage is that maybe you don't have but you could cant the stage such that it takes away and now your line of Bulletproof glass, we use of the Christmas tree every and so those resources are there. I think the investigation's those hard questions as to, why weren't those kind of A lot of what you see is kind You saw the protective detail and they're the ones in and jumped on top of him and then tried to effect You also saw counterassault team members who came out from their position, kind of out of sight but now they've come out of that tactical position You saw them onstage and the black gear. They collaborate and with Delta, with FBI, HRT. So it's a very specialized The images that the media shows over and over on the rooftop So if I'm not mistaken, one of our United States have ever fired at another human being, and it was a perfect shot. The evacuation looked like and part of the problem President Trump had, for to signal to the American and that, &quot;We're going Now, that's great, that watching from my mom's hospital room. So, him sticking his head up high and exposing himself was What you're looking for is compliance. Ideally you would want to double them over and walk them out, and hopefully they assist If they don't -- and I is now going to say is, immobilize them and get them prone. If you have to, carry them out. The way I was trained is you put your hand on and, with one arm around their waist, if you push their head forward, they will comply and they And the same if you pull them backwards. They really come under if you get that working. It's amazingly easy, even if you have to make them uncomfortable or even hurt them a That is more important. 9/11, hard for me to let go of. And I was on the first of two and then my pager went I'm at home. I'm ready to go. I said, &quot;If you need me to do something, I'm your guy, let's go.&quot; And he said, &quot;You know what? And I said, &quot;Yes, sir,&quot; and I was angry. I might have hit something. I got a fourth page, and they said, &quot;Get to the Close to midnight, we were and we get the crackle we've got an inbound aircraft. I immediately think of a jumbo We got an altitude, we and we got a speed, and it directly for the White House. We had more like seconds, but the president and the first lady had been released to go upstairs to the residence for the night, and so once their evacuation was complete, my job was to stay and fight and then to be the point when they made their reentry. The problem was we weren't I was left behind with a and a gas mask to fight what that was going to crash It wasn't a good time to argue. The circumstances are different. You just suck it up and do it, and so I covered that evacuation, and then I looked on the ground Where might I survive? What if it hits at the wrong angle and there's a chance, And it was the west wall of It has a wide archway, and I thought, if I stand in this archway and the fireball doesn't burn me alive, maybe, just maybe, there's a And so I went and stood in that archway with all my gear and my stuff, and I had what seemed like and ponder my own demise. But I remember being at great peace, and I just thought, well, I And I've seen what happens when these big planes hit these buildings, and I knew that the wingspan of a 747 was wider than the White House itself. So it was probably all going down and everything was going to be burned. I thought about my wife for a second, and I said well, Lord, here I come. I'm ready. They're going to put a plaque for me up over at headquarters, and that's just all she wrote. And it wasn't too much longer that we got the crackle back on the radio that the plane had been identified, that there was no emergency, that we could unevacuate the White House. He just wasn't on the right frequency, and he didn't have his so they just had no way to identify him without visually identifying him. That Air Force pilot came that night than I did, but I sure didn't know that at the time. Part of training to be a presidential or vice presidential and you need to know You need to know what it feels like, even. They absolutely light and with plastic paint bullets, and shot from real weapons. But if you do it wrong, you and if you stick your head up where it shouldn't be stuck up, you're going to taste some of because the instructors are just that good with those weapons. And they know the mistakes that agents are going to make in training. They've seen it all before. Being shot at is no fun, and that really drives you to bolster up prevention, because we don't want to be shot at. We want to prevent the shots from happening in the first place. So you get hit, you pay for it. It hurts, and you've got to think about what you did wrong. The very first thing that is go through a two-week training and this is really your intro course to being a part of the The second step is a to the Federal Law You learn about defensive driving, you learn about shooting handcuffing, a little bit of fighting, a little bit of federal law enforcement in terms of surveillance and arrest, and a lot of classroom. And then you're sent to the just outside of DC, and this is where the road We start with 24. Typically, most make it. In my class, 19 out of the 24 made it. A lot of times we would have a schedule that said that the next day is sort of a relaxing thing that, hey, it's all classroom. You can come dressed in your and we're just going to be And that never seemed to work out. We would show up, and the instructor would shorts and a T-shirt, and he says, &quot;What are y'all Get your PT gear on now, and let's go.&quot; As our lead instructor, we had a gentleman who was a who then had served in the CIA. He'd been in the Secret He'd been on the presidential and he pushed us hard. The training lasts about six months. Between those three stops, in DC down to Glynco, Georgia, and back to DC is about six months. One week where you're learning and then at the end of the day, you're headed to the long And we would shoot and that could be a 9 a .38 Special, up to MP5s and M4s. And then our snipers, who come from our uniform which are much bigger and longer. Look, I was the freak. I showed up there with right eye dominant, but I closed my right eye, because I was looking down the barrel of a pistol with my left eye, and I had just made it but it was a bad habit. And so they moved me more of an open stance, and that was what ended up working for me. We miss those Uzis. Those were great guns. When I came into the Secret Service, that was the standard long gun for agents, and so we were all trained on the Uzi. We had that outstanding with the Uzi in it, and we but it got replaced by the MP5 probably back in the early 2000s. One of the funner parts of training was just the familiarization courses that we would be put when I was on the presidential was a familiarization with the sounds. They took us out to Fort Meade, and they fired rounds over And so we got to hear when 5.56 rounds are going over your head, or what AK-47 rounds sound like when they're going over your head, or what a .50-cal sniper rifle sounds like when those rounds are cracking over. And they're very distinct sounds. You don't forget them But they also taught you and put it back together. What do you want to do if that an assailant dropped and left behind and render it safe? Part of the training that we received was called control tactics. So control tactics includes in combat, if you will, to knife fights, and then how to disarm And so all of that goes into play. We start in a mat room, and you've got a rubber and you're working it out. You're doing it wrong six and now we've got it. Let's do it again. And these instructors, in some sort of discipline, whether it's jujitsu or and so we're really getting a hodgepodge of all of those things. A lot of Gracie jujitsu moves because we don't want to stay and fight. We want to subdue, we want to and then we need to shove off and move. We have an axiom that we say: Maximum to the protectee, You know what, anyone can and a lot of that comes and how well you trained. But if you're caught off guard, if you're not mentally prepared, if you're not physically prepared, you're probably going to lose. Yeah, everyone thinks that or an intelligence agency, and it's really quite the opposite. We are strictly law enforcement. We use intelligence, we but that's usually handed to us. And so we certainly need intelligence about protective efforts, about threats against the president. Attempts on the president are rare, but certainly people who would like to make an attempt are not rare. We've seen celebrities make threats. John Wilkes Booth was probably the most famous actor in America. Everyone knew who he was and he was allowed to walk backstage and have access to the presidential box because of who he was. There was one comedian who displayed the severed head of a president and was interviewed about that. We're going to talk to what's the intent here? If someone is squawking and talking, be it on the internet or at a bar or with friends and family to one of our protectees, We investigate every single one of those. How serious were you? Were you drunk? Were you off your medication? What was the cause of We keep records on those. We track them. We educate ourselves on them. I don't know if there's a who hadn't been at a party even family members will say things that, depending on who the president is or what their political leanings were, that they would say So yeah, I've been in who've said some really stupid things, and either steer the because they don't know I'm an agent or just tell them flat before you say something Even the patients at mental institutions were given access to telephones at different times of the day, and we knew some of and I knew several of them by voice -- because every time they got unfettered access to a telephone, they would call our office, and they would start down this road, and they would talk into until it ran out of tape. And talking about, &quot;I want I want to do this, I want to do that.&quot; They'd email whitehouse.gov, &quot;I'm going to kill the president.&quot; People would just do stupid things, and there is a line to be crossed. It's a little blurry, but you're going to get interviewed. Secret Service protects their family, the and their family, former and then visiting heads of state. I think right now the Secret Service is protecting upwards of 40 people. But on any given day, heads of state visit the United States. Certainly when the UN General it becomes hundreds of people. Trust in the Secret Service is critical. Not only trust between the but also trust with your protectee. So if your protectee doesn't trust you, that's a huge problem, and that's a big reason when President Clinton went through the Monica Lewinsky scandal and all that, the Secret Service was subpoenaed to testify during that There's not a nondisclosure but that's where agents have They have to be worthy that they're not going to go off telling these stories We lost, so we did have to testify, but we want to be able to have and enjoy that kind of where they can know that that they can do the job that I came into the Clinton and I was the junior guy who was told to shut up and keep your head down, and, &quot;You need to figure And so President Clinton and do a whole lot during that last year. Went on a few trips with him, but wouldn't say that I got Probably gotten to know him better since he is a former president. President George W. Bush, I was there for his first four years, and that's when I really within the detail in terms So you're building your working your way up to I ran with him. He certainly appreciated the agents who were assigned to run with him because he was a heck of a runner and so those agents stood out to him, but it wasn't a buddy kind of thing. We had a job to do. He had a job to do. He had some very good friends, President Obama was different though because I was assigned to him and I was already a senior agent. I had already done the president's detail with two other presidents. We would go out for three weeks and then come back for three weeks, and so I came back from being with him, and my wife mysteriously becomes pregnant right after I get home. And I'm going out on my three-week tour with Sen. Obama, and it's time for my wife's ultrasound to find out if it's a boy or girl, and we always found We're not on Air Force One. We're on a little private jet There's a lot more intimacy And so I told this agent I said, &quot;Hey, we're having another girl,&quot; in the back of this little, bitty plane. The senator had two staffers and Reggie Love was one of them. Reggie hears this, he just turns around, and he says, &quot;Hey, Barack, Not where I wanted the conversation to go. Well, I don't really want to have these kind of personal conversations with any of the protectees because we're trying to And so he turns around and he says, &quot;You're having another girl, huh?&quot; And I said, &quot;Yes, sir.&quot; And he said, &quot;Well, how I struggled with that because I didn't want to lie to him, but I didn't want to not So I said, &quot;Well, sir, Three boys, two girls.&quot; And he was so taken aback by that number. &quot;Five kids?&quot; And he held up his hand, and he said, &quot;Five?&quot; Kind of forgot where I was for a second, and I said, &quot;Yes, sir, five, and we're pretty sure this And in my mind, I'm thinking back to being gone for three and happy to be home, And he was like, &quot;Well, I don't but as long as I'm not paying So the point of all that is that I didn't have favorites necessarily, but the familiarity was And so Sen. Obama gets elected president. I get promoted to go back to the president's I'll never forget the first and so big reunion, big hug, and there's just that familiarity. Whereas these other on a daily or weekly basis, there's just no frame of reference. But for me, I think it went when he thought I was accusing him of being the father of my kids. We dress for success in and we try to, kind of like a chameleon, fit in with our environment maybe from a distance doesn't know, is that a Secret Service agent or is that a high-ranking The special agents typically wear suits, and the truth is, the suits, they don't help you buy those suits. So Joe Banks had a buy one, get 22 free, and so I had a bunch of Joe The wear and tear on the suits is immense. I would wear holes where my gun, where the gun leather hit my hip. I would wear a hole in my pants, and then in my jacket, there would be a hole where So, sunglasses if it's sunny or if you just don't want your The bulletproof vest was a requirement. You've got your issued sidearm, and we fluctuated in caliber maybe depending on the but it was either a SIG or a Glock and a 9 or a 40 back to 9. You would carry extra ammo, so at least one extra magazine. Most agents carried at least two extra. We all carry the same gun and so that if you are out of ammo, you can get more from If there's a gun on the floor, you can pick it up and use it because you've been You've got handcuffs, you've got an issued extendable and that was kind of minimal equipment. Everyone assigned to had some kind of cool flashlight. They didn't issue those things, and so it was another is to have the latest that you spent more than your salary on to have at your disposal and we're in a pickle. A lot of times agents were and so it's just a trauma or your protectee is bleeding, that you've got immediate access to first-aid equipment, a tourniquet, something to cover that wound and start that medical We also carried pagers back in the day, which then transitioned You always had a radio. Some guys would carry because they didn't always work that well. I hope they got that worked out by now. There's information that you that I wouldn't be comfortable revealing, but there are diagrams and information about the about our means and methods, but that's about all I'm If a Secret Service agent loses Certainly a weapon or even a baton. Maybe the worst thing of all that an agent can lose is their pin, because if you lose your pin, now someone can impersonate you just by virtue of wearing that pin. And that won't get you but we protect those. We number them. If you lose one, it goes out to say, &quot;Hey, Valentine lost his blue pin, number 44221,&quot; and now it's entered into the national criminal as a lost item, if it's recovered. When agents would wobble a little bit on not blending or fitting in, then yeah, I'd call them out for it. In one specific instance, a pair of white Oakley that just didn't fit the circumstance. I went up to this agent and I said, &quot;You really thought long and hard about it and decided to wear And he said, &quot;Hey, come on, man. My mom said these are pretty cool.&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, that should that they don't work, so I There's not a lot that I'm I know a lot of people call it the Beast, but I can tell you we did not refer to that car as the Beast. I think that was a media In fact, when I was on we took delivery of the first upgraded car that they refer to as the Beast, and every car that we used prior to that time was a real car that was pulled was likely sawed in half, stretched, and then armored it. In the process, the car now The tires won't support it, the brakes won't stop it, Those were not ideal. In fact, the first time was in an old-style car. I missed the drop-off because I'm standing on the brakes and the car won't stop, and You needed some lead-up time And so it just wasn't ideal. Those upgraded cars that are really not a car at all. It's an armored system Much more like a tank that's got a plastic And so it's got a Cadillac dash. It's got Cadillac It's got a nice steering wheel, but the workings of You step on the gas and that thing goes. I mean, it's got a huge engine in it. The tires support it. I mean, it really is quite a beast in terms of its capability, but it does have a downside, and it does not fly and it does not float. We get some really funny looks when we're in transport mode without him because we don't have our own gas pumps. We take it to a local gas station and put high-octane gas in that thing, and people are driving by looking at us and taking pictures and getting a kick out of the fact that they think that might getting gassed up at The only people authorized are the presidential who are currently assigned to We've built out a program called the Protective It's not nothing. It's a tough course. It's a two-week class in order to remain in that section and to be eligible to drive We always travel with a mechanic, and it's one of the coolest things, I thought, about the president's detail. The mechanics are not agents. They're protective support and we recruit them from the ranks of certified mechanics out there. And these guys are certified, GM-, ASE-certified mechanics who are also trained and carry weapons. So in their toolbox, they've got a gun. They put the suit on. They have to qualify with the weapons. They have to requalify with and we rely on them very heavily, but they're one of the that people have no idea, and So if the car breaks down, And one time we were simply driving from the Air Force base where we landed, taking the cars to the hotel, and I was driving the limo and it just broke down and stopped. And I called the mechanic on the radio and I said, &quot;Hey, the car,&quot; and we got practically a getting the cars from And the mechanic came up and assessed, and he said, &quot;Hey, it's the alternator,&quot; and this mechanic had that alternator swapped out in minutes. If we hadn't told anyone, The second inauguration of and the Capitol to the White House, we rode part of the time, We would practice and having rocks and all kinds and we would practice, You're there really to prevent someone from getting too close to the car. On that day, people started throwing, we came to a certain group of people that were throwing snowballs, and some of them had rocks in them. Someone threw a fish. I don't know if it was a goldfish or something they bought but people do stupid things out there. I remember driving the and people turn around and moon you or do weird things, hold up crazy signs, but not threatening, just kind of silly. Air Force One, for me, was a total joy because every time you you knew you could Everyone could loosen their and if it was a long flight, the agents could even catch a nap, could take that vest off and let your hair down just a little bit. The food was outstanding as well. Funny thing was I remember leaving the Ranch kind of early on in my &quot;I wonder what we're going because we're riding from Texas back to DC and it's during a mealtime, so we're about to be treated And it was hot dogs and potato chips, and I remember thinking, &quot;What the heck, man, who ordered this?&quot; Well, it turned out that's so that's what everyone got. A couple of weeks after and you had to pay for all the food that was consumed on the plane. And so they would add up all the food, everything that was consumed on a trip was weighed and measured divided it by the number of and you got a bill. So that was a little bit of just assuming that the G's and you got all this good stuff. Stairs are always a problem and an issue, and I'll tell you why. You see a president stumble, well, part of it is that. It's a different set of almost every time, unless All of the ones that let the the door with the presidential seal on it, the door that creates that and wave to the country, the problem is those stairs are built into a truck. And so you have to drive a and they tend to be Air Force One has built-in stairs, a set of rear built-in stairs that you wouldn't want and then it has a front set That camera shot is by people that are kind So Air Force One is a great way to go, but it's not the best way to go because the press plane is absolutely the best way to travel. They have so much freedom on and it's just a lighter environment. And it's a beautiful thing because we will buy seats on that plane, and the plane is only partially filled, and the press knows how to have fun. I mean, they have a great time. There's a lot of laughter, will choose to go over on the press plane. I was still in my mom's this is going to change because I am branded as a as a retired agent. And when people ask you, &quot;What do you do?&quot; And I say, &quot;Oh, well I'm a now it's going to be about Butler. They don't care about the books. They don't care about the speeches. They don't care about They want to know what happened at Butler, and I knew standing there that this was going to not this week, not for but for the rest of my life it's going to be about President Trump was the sitting He was defeated in an election and now he's coming back, running again, and you don't typically see that. When we look at protecting people, there's a lot of anger pointed In conjunction with the should have signaled to leadership that this is a big deal. Butler's ultimate failure, in my opinion, is going to go back to leadership. Certainly we saw the come and testify and not to some pretty simple questions. And it goes above that to the Department of Homeland Security, and I don't think we've seen anyone from the Department of Homeland Security be pressed on their leadership And ever since Secret to DHS in the wake of 9/11, I think the culture of the Secret Service has been impacted by that move, and autonomy for the Secret Service means that we have the ability to innovate and the ability to lead. When you get to dictate where your protectee goes, especially given a little bit of time, you can do a whole lot to And so whether it's the or going for a run, with a little bit of heads up, we can deploy assets and for them to operate in A lot of people have asked me recently about the future &quot;Do you see a bright future And my answer's going to be yes. Every time something happens they will come back stronger. There's no excuse for error, for failure, but their success is going to be tied to their ability to get out of DHS and get back to Treasury Department, and then let's get us back to the time when one in 10,000 applicants And so I started as a and retired in 2020. Secret Service has and I think it used to be 55. It got bumped to 57, but at 57, you're put to pasture and you can go do something else. I think there's a lot of is so wrapped up in that or maybe that whole law-enforcement thing, the badge is their whole identity. And boy, I was really I let go of that pretty easily. I think I was ready. There is a jading that happens too, and you go into a restaurant, and after doing it one way for 24 years, that's a little hard to give up. And so my wife will point out if I'm being hypervigilant about the exit doors, and looking them over and That's my cue that, or I need to relax a little bit. I've tried to get better about that, but I think it's part of I think you've been changed, and so I just go into and given the opportunity, I do think about, well, I'll sit in church and think, if somebody comes in here what are we going to do? I'm not sure I'll ever recover from that, I'm not sure I need to, And it makes you a pretty or to whoever's going to But these days, my life is consumed with reliving the past and teaching and coaching and mentoring. And so on the side, I'm writing books and I'm going out and giving speeches, but leadership is my focus now. The first book that I wrote which was really a combination of letters to my kids combined with advice and then stories from the Secret Service. And the second book is really It's called &quot;Staying Sharp.&quot; I'm a producer on &quot;Authorized Account.&quot; If you enjoyed this, please with more topics you'd