What would you do if you were given absolute Would you use it to fix the world's ills? Or would you use it to satisfy your own darkest It's a question we've seen answered again as in the reign of Rome's third emperor, Or, as you know him: Caligula. Born into a powerful military family, Caligula in Roman history. During his four year reign, he indulged in name is still a byword for cruelty and perversion. You probably know the tales about Caligula consul. You may not know that the rest of his life Today, we take you inside the twisted world A Game of (Imperial) Thrones on August 31, 12 AD, it was into a world of Roman's head spin. Gaius's father was the general Germanicus, His mother, Agrippina the elder, came from the imperial throne. To call the family elite would be to undersell They were like if the Kennedys, Rothschilds, all joined into a single family unit. Still, Germanicus was a working general, and up in military camps on the Western frontier While stationed in these camps, Gaius was The sight of this toddler parading around so much that they gave him the nickname "Little Or, to render it in Latin: Caligula. But while life may have seemed sweet for little almighty storm was brewing. For nearly four decades, the imperial throne But with the First Citizen now nearing the stirring. Augustus's plan had been for one of Agrippina's had died young. After falling out with a third successor, called Tiberius. Tiberius was technically a hero of the empire, Nobody liked him, not even Augustus. The only way the dying emperor could get Tiberius Tiberius to adopt Caligula's dad, the beloved That way, everyone could sleep soundly, knowing would soon be in charge. You know that phrase 'the best laid plans Well, Tiberius was about to do to Augustus's a stick of dynamite. On August 19, 14 AD, Augustus finally shuffled No sooner was he gone than Tiberius began Caligula's family was taken from the Rhine There, on October 10, 19 AD, Germanicus died Convinced Tiberius had poisoned her husband, It was at this point that Tiberius brought Tiberius forbid Agrippina to remarry, and Her eldest two sons were imprisoned. One of them committed suicide. The other starved to death. For Caligula, it was a life-changing upheaval. Although his grandmother shielded him from parents, without brothers, without hope. His only consolation may have been that his Certainly, the experience made them close. So close, that it was often rumored Caligula But Tiberius wasn't just cunning. He was also cruel. In AD 31 or 32, the nineteen year old Caligula on the island of Capri. From now on, the emperor informed him, he destroyed his family. It was a bizarre, perverted thing for Tiberius It would also be a catastrophe for the entire Making a Monster know about Tiberius. The first is that Tiberius was basically Roman He ruled through fear, instigating a wave by kangaroo courts, executed, and their bodies The second is that he did all this while staying In AD 26, the old despot retreated to a villa flunky did all the actual repressing. Incidentally, a "good time" for Tiberius bad time. If we believe the surviving sources, Tiberius's with underage boys and girls and then having Oh, and he also liked to have the odd person It was into this world that Caligula was summoned. It's impossible to say why Tiberius called Maybe it was a sick game. Tiberius's flunkies would often question to lash out. But Caligula wasn't stupid. He kept his mouth shut, and deferred to Tiberius member. So Tiberius never got around to killing the Not only that, he seems to have grown to like Before long, Tiberius was allowing Caligula To arrange and watch sadistic tortures at It's said that, after seeing how much the Tiberius remarked: If he really believed that, though, Tiberius At some point in the mid-AD 30s, Tiberius joint heirs to the empire. Maybe if Tiberius knew what the quiet young been more cautious. Caligula later claimed he liked to get up bedroom, where he would hold a dagger over Only the voice of the dead Augustus stopped Less Looney Tunes, Caligula also worked behind Pretorian Guard prefect Naevius Sutorius Macro. When the time came, Caligula wanted the guard The time came On March 16, 37 AD. That morning, word went out that Tiberius Rome's tyrant emperor was dead! There are a few theories about how Tiberius suffocated the old man with a pillow. But even if this is just later writers adding the same. In Rome, the people went nuts. They demanded Tiberius's body be dragged as all those executed at his treason trials While Rome was busy partying, out on Capri, With Tiberius gone, the Praetorian Guard came Gemellus was placed under house arrest. He'd never taste freedom again. His rival imprisoned, Caligula rode to Rome new emperor. This... actually wasn't as hard as you might People had hated Tiberius. The whole city was seriously pumped he was replacement would be the son of their beloved To paraphrase Philip J. Fry, Rome was basically Aged only 24, Caligula was elevated to undisputed The people were ecstatic. As he rode into the city, they lined up and It wouldn't be long before Caligula was different reasons. Bread and Circuses The part where we finally get to all the juicy and marrying his sister? Nope! That's all still down the road. Because here's the thing about Caligula, When he first seized power, he was seen as get enough of. Seriously. Caligula 1.0 was everything Rome had ever He ended Tiberius's treason trials. Restored confiscated property. Eased up on persecution. Lowered taxes. Gave the army a pay rise. As if this wasn't enough, Caligula threw his rise to power. Imagine you're an ordinary Roman. For over twenty years, you've been living have you killed at any time. And now there's this new guy in town and promise that he's not gonna randomly kill Clearly a massive step up. As 37 AD rolled on, people dared to hope that Maybe Tiberius had been a one-off, and all Pfft. Yeah, right. That October, Caligula suddenly took sick. It's possible he was poisoned. At any rate, he spent the best part of a month death. The people of Rome were appalled. They couldn't lose their shiny new emperor! There was weeping in the streets. In the Senate, senators took turns to stand A handful even begged Jupiter to take them Miraculously, these prayers worked. Caligula recovered, dragging his weakened If this was a horror movie, now would be the he brought some evil spirit back with him..." Since this is history, though, we'll simply The popular emperor was gone. In his place was something much darker. Not long after recovering, Caligula invited visit him. There, he thanked them for asking Jupiter Then he asked when they were going to do it. No records exist of the conversation that this: Asked the Senators, puzzled. "You know. It." Replied Caligula. "You asked the Gods to let you die so I Well, I am alive. So I repeat. When are you going to die?" The senators had no choice. One by one, they were all forced to commit It was the first sign of the madness that Now, we need to be careful here. Plenty of ancient and contemporary writers event, like he was a saint before and a devil But we've already seen Caligula getting villa. We've seen him quietly dispose of his rival So, yes, Caligula became a monster after his But it's not like the signs weren't already With the senators dead, Caligula returned From the get-go it was clear something was He ditched the robes and started dressing in women's clothes. He claimed he was plagued by endless headaches. You can almost imagine the people of Rome, what happened to their fun emperor. Well, Caligula still wanted to have fun. And Rome was about to discover that Caligula's than Tiberius's. "I only have to give the word..." Before we go any further, there's something Roman history. So many sources have been lost over the years of Caligula. The information we have on his life generally and Cassius Dio's biography of Caligula. Both aren't exactly great historians, and Dio not even being born until 120-odd years To put it another way, expecting either of of Caligula's reign is like expecting someone account of the life of Otto von Bismarck. That being said, there's likely a kernel and even a kernel would be enough to rank It's said that post-illness Caligula liked Senators would be made to run along beside streets of Rome. Those that refused would be humiliated in Caligula would throw dinner parties for the Mid-way through the meal, he'd pick a wife and force himself on her. He'd then return her to her husband, who'd Speaking of women, Caligula's sexual appetites In AD 37 or 38, for example, he went to the Orestilla. The emperor was so taken with Livia that he She did, he had his way with her, then divorced As a final kicker, he forbade her to ever Livia wasn't the only one. Lollia Paulina was also forced to divorce ditched after barely six months. Then there are the other rumors, that Caligula boys, to the male actor Mnester. But the most famous affair Caligula had was, Remember Julia Drusilla? Back near the start of this video, we mentioned her. Well, once he became emperor, Caligula seems rumors. Drusilla was elevated to the status of emperor's The army was required to take a loyalty oath The two were never apart. When Drusilla died in June, 38 AD, the heartbroken people to worship her. Even with this weird relationship, though, That shocking scene in I, Claudius where Caligula We're extremely pleased to tell you that Still, Caligula's cruelty and his insanity Cassius Dio has it that the emperor practiced to put the fear of God into his subjects. At one party, he allegedly burst out laughing. When guests asked him what was funny, Caligula "I've just thought that I've only to cut." It was more than just an idle threat. In AD 38, Caligula finally ordered Gemellus Incredibly, he had Macro, the Praetorian Guard shortly after. It was Caligula's first major taste of blood. Evidently, he liked it enough to go back for The Reign of Perversion emperor hadn't completely vanished. For all his bad rep, Caligula did do some He extended Rome's aqueduct network, bringing city. He had new ports constructed, opening the There's also reason to believe some of the That whole thing about making his horse a It's thought Caligula was probably insulting to the effect of "you're so useless, I later writers took literally. On the other hand, it's quite possible that If you've not heard it, it's claimed Caligula that said Caligula had: of riding a horse across the Bay of Bauli." Once he became emperor, Caligula requisitioned and turned them into a two or three mile bridge He then spent two whole days riding up and So many boats were put out of action that Fun as they are, though, tales like these In AD 39, the treasury was empty. Too much money had been spent funding Caligula's So Caligula pulled a fast one. He reinstated Tiberius's treason trials. And now they would be even crueler than before. People were selected from Roman society at with no warning. The lucky ones were sent into exile. The unlucky ones were executed. Executions under Caligula were worse than Executioners were instructed to keep people them to death over several days. Relatives were forced to watch these displays. In some cases, parents were summoned to see but smile and cheer lest the mad emperor have Just as he had on Capri, it seemed Caligula Yet, gory as this was, it wasn't quite so While Tiberius arranged to have rivals assassinated about anyone he wasn't face to face with. His treason trials may have left Rome's the empire continued to function as normal. It was in AD 39, at the height of his terror, dreams. Milonia Caesonia was a woman as amoral and Older than Caligula and dedicated to nothing win the young despot's heart. Although few records of Milonia survive, we that the emperor named Julia Drusilla, after We also know that Caligula's messed up way remind her that he could have her tortured Overall, then, Caligula reached the second which is another way of saying everyone else feared for their lives. As October rolled around, the emperor felt head to the frontier to do some conquering. But Caligula had misjudged just how cowed With the madman out the picture, his victims to whisper to one another about finding a Caligula didn't know it, but his short reign Death to Tyrants must have felt, returning to the frontier soldier, but a conquering emperor. At least, that's one way of looking at it. By some accounts, Caligula spent his time and invading Gaul. On the other hand, different accounts make up at all. One version has it that Caligula paid soldiers so he could "defeat" them and appear a When actual Germans attacked shortly after, What's not in dispute is that, by AD 40, At that time, Britannia was still a strange, So conquering it would boost Caligula's Accordingly, Caligula rode north with 200,000 Channel. Once there, he told his men to prepare for down to the beaches and collect seashells. Declaring these were spoils of a great victory back to Rome. Back in the Eternal City, the conspiracy against It was fed, in part, by Caligula's belief He claimed to communicate with Jupiter, and temple of the empire. When the news reached Judea, it very nearly It was only thanks to Herod Agrippa's diplomatic temples and averted civil war. But this last flash of sanity was not enough On January 24, 41 AD, the anti-Caligula faction Outside the Palatine Games, a unit led by coming out, then surrounded and stabbed him Before the alarm could be raised, they marched emperor's baby daughter lived and killed For a moment on that febrile day, it really was about to collapse, that the Senate might But no. Cassius Chaerea and his men instead tracked Claudius, and had him declared emperor. The Guard may have been ready to kill Caligula, that had created him. Their failure of nerve would result in another That winter day in 41 AD, though, all the way away. Instead, the Senate focused on purging the Statues of the now-dead emperor were smashed. His name was scrubbed from monuments. One, likely fictitious, telling has it that horse. Before Claudius had established himself on from Roman history. The people wanted no more reminders of their So why do we remember him today? Why is Caligula one of the few Roman emperors Part of it is doubtless entertainment value. Even if the story about making his horse a But part of it may also be that Caligula serves Before he took the throne, Caligula was a When he was made emperor, all he seemingly The old phrase has it that absolute power In the life of Caligula, we can see this is We may like to believe that a good man could biography suggests otherwise. It suggests that almost anyone could become Perhaps even you or I. In the end, Caligula may have only ruled Rome But his deranged actions during that time