- What do Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr. and Hitler have in common? They were all obsessively the cult leader who convinced and coerced some 900 members of his Peoples Temple to drink poison Flavorade in 1978, in what came to be called All these figures are known people who inspire intense devotion or emotional attachment in their followers through their communication skills. While Jones had little in common with these men spiritually he was fascinated with their Even from a young age, he and he knew that the best I'm Dr. Erica Brozovsky, (bright upbeat music) - Otherwords. (bright upbeat music) - Men have so dastardly - Come into the dark in - You can't go against that culture because going against that culture- - My father gave me long - [Erica] If there's one it's talk a lot. Like Jim Jones, Heaven's or NXIVM's Keith Raniere, the traditional image of (usually but not always male) while a congregation While there are common linguistic features of cult leader speech, the quantity of words For decades, researchers have been testing the Babble Hypothesis, are chosen for how much they speak rather than the quality of their ideas. Since the 1950s, scientists have been questioning But in 2020, the most had surprising results. Diverse groups of people with varying personalities to solve challenging Each member's total speaking as well as the substance Afterwards, the subjects were all asked to nominate other group members The results weren't even close. Speaking time had by far with leadership emergence, agreeableness, game proficiency, The only other factor that While the study doesn't purport to explain the psychological factors behind it, it seems likely that humans as a mental shortcut to determine who would make a good leader. &quot;If everyone else is maybe I should too.&quot; But not all leaders are cult leaders. In her book, &quot;Cultish&quot;, seeks to tease out some of the men and women who run authoritarian groups that exploit or otherwise cause harm to their members. And one of the most Loaded language is a general that have deep emotional like genocide, patriot, toxic, or vermin. Cult leaders will craft to have specific connotations. David Koresh used the phrase &quot;New Light&quot; to cast his teachings Charles Manson repurposed the Beatles song lyric &quot;Helter Skelter&quot; to refer to an imminent race war. And Jim Jones borrowed the from Black Panther for mass suicide with resistance to authoritarian state power. Through repetition, an intense emotional association so that eventually just can instantly summon powerful feelings of beauty, love, fear, or hatred. It's like creating linguistic buttons that can be pushed to generate Another trick in the cult is the thought-terminating cliche. These are sayings that end or trains of thoughts. &quot;It is what it is.&quot; &quot;Everything happens for a reason.&quot; &quot;Let's agree to disagree.&quot; They shut down argument which is why they're so who don't like to be questioned. Charles Manson countered to his ravings by saying, Try arguing with that. Ti and Do, the leaders would tell skeptical listeners they didn't have &quot;the gift of recognition.&quot; And Warren Jeffs, leader Church of Jesus Christ admonished dissatisfied female Though-terminating cliches They allow the leader to while giving followers permission to ignore their Not sure whether you're Well, &quot;It's out of our hands,&quot; You might be thinking that these traits aren't exclusive to cults. After all, mainstream religions are full of loaded language and thought-terminating cliches like &quot;God works in mysterious ways.&quot; A linguistic study from 2021 analyzed the speeches of destructive cult leaders like Jim Jones and Marshall Applewhite and compared them to those of like Billy Graham and Rick Warren. And while there were some similarities, there were also some stark differences. For one, cult leaders' speech using words like that, to create novel worlds full of complex rules and casualties. Mainstream preachers by contrast don't have to explain new systems of morality and spiritualism, but instead work from are already familiar with. They also found that cult leaders favored the pronouns, &quot;us&quot; and &quot;them,&quot; while mainstream religious This is consistent with cults' tendency to reinforce ingroup/outgroup Members of Heaven's to be &quot;evolved&quot; and &quot;next level,&quot; while outsiders were NXIVM labeled unbelievers &quot;suppressives.&quot; And Scientology uses the derogatory &quot;wogs&quot; to refer to non-Scientologists. Perhaps the most efficient for reinforcing an &quot;us is the use of jargon. While specialized vocabularies are necessary in many professions, cults use them for a To determine who is a and who is an outsider to be avoided. Members of Heaven's Gate and their group, the classroom. They didn't say kitchen or laundry room, but Nutri-Lab and Fiber-Lab. NXIVM, the multi-level marketing company turned sex trafficking cult, performed integrations to rid members of their mental dysfunctions And the jargon of Scientology can quite literally fill which members were forced A 2020 study by researchers from Columbia University and between jargon and self-perception. They analyzed the writings of a broad spectrum of graduate students and found that the lower the ranking of the university the student attended, the higher the frequency Students from high status schools tended to communicate They also invited business school students to pitch ideas to a panel of but manipulated their Some were told that their competitors were successful entrepreneurs, they were competing Those that had been made to feel inferior were more likely to use The researchers concluded as a kind of linguistic advertising a higher status using words. Many ex-members of cults recollecting the early thrill of learning a mysterious terminology. Like kids sharing a secret it made them feel part which gave them a sense of superiority. In her book, Montell offers evidence that these linguistic tactics have seeped out from cults Propelled by capitalist demands and the reach of social media, the language of cults, she If you question the business model of a multi-level marketing scheme, well, that's just &quot;stinkin' thinkin',&quot; a thought-terminating cliche Similarly, when the predictions of QAnon and other conspiracy followers on social media Corporations employ mantras to enforce obedience like Jeff Bezos' leadership principles, which include &quot;Think Big&quot; and &quot;Dive Deep.&quot; Politics is rife with us so that everyone is either And fitness centers like use jargon like box, to make membership feel exclusive. Montell argues that as like churches, clubs, and unions have declined in popularity, people are desperate for new ways to feel a sense of belonging, and the majority turn to social media. Online wellness gurus like have been accused of cult-like Technology has vastly lowered the bar, allowing them to influence an infinite number of followers from the comfort of their own homes. Say what you want about Jim Jones, the guy could talk for Meanwhile, TikTokers are competing to coin the next trendy phrase like polywork, micro-cheating, or 75 cozy. This online jargon has other than to create a sense of community amongst the people who know it and confer status in to the ones who can successfully In a widely read essay in The Cut, financial columnist Charlotte Cowles explained in detail how she was talked into handing a box of $50,000 The linguistic tactics the to how police may coerce a but could just as well apply &quot;They do it incrementally, in a series of small steps that from what you know to be true. It's not about breaking the will, they were altering the sense of reality.&quot; Montell cites the French who stated that language was, &quot;Our element as water Your perception of reality depends less on the than the words you hear. Language empowers cult leaders to create a &quot;mini universe&quot; as Montell puts it, around their followers. The defense of that is but to hear more of it from That way no one person has the NXIVM, the multi-level marketing company turned sex trafficking to rid members of their mental (beep). - [Crew Member] Wow. - (laughing) Oops, I don't (laughing)