MALE SPEAKER: Steven Pinker is of psychology at chair of the usage panel of the and one of the world's on language, mind, His research has won prizes of Sciences, the Royal Psychological Association, Society. He has also received awards and many &quot;The Language Instinct,&quot; &quot;How Slate,&quot; and &quot;The Better Why Violence Has Declined.&quot; He has been named Time's 100 most influential and foreign policy world's He has written for The New York Republic, the New Yorker, on consciousness, genomics, and of course, language. Ladies and gentleman, [APPLAUSE] STEVEN PINKER: Thank Why is so much writing so bad, Why do we have to like &quot;the revocation by these previously revoked affect the continued Why is it so hard to understand is the moment of the abstention of in part through its invitation the helplessness of its Why is it so hard to set the [LAUGHTER] Well there's no and the most popular theory is the boss says to the needs more gibberish. In other words, bad writing Bureaucrats insist on gibberish Pasty-faced nerds on the girls who turned them and the jocks how kicked Pseudo-intellectuals try with highfalutin' gobbledygook, that they have nothing to say. Well I have no doubt that is true of some writers, But in my experience it I know plenty of who do groundbreaking they have no need to impress their writing stinks. Good people can write bad prose. The other theory routed to explain bad are to blame for I'm sure you've all seen this-- The Dumbest Generation has been and they are Twitter is forcing us to think Well I think there's some generation theory as well, that it must have before the advent Say-- And those of you who can surely remember spoke in fluid paragraphs. Bureaucrats wrote and every academic in the art of the essay. Yes, that's the way Or was it the 1970s? The truth is of course that bad in every era, such as 1961, in recent graduates, including seem to have no mastery Well maybe you have to go back and radio, say to 1917. When someone wrote in the country goes up the can't punctuate. Every high school because it's pupils are rudiments. Well maybe you have to go when literacy was prized. Well in 1785, they were is degenerating very fast. I began to fear that it will And then of course there are like the commentator who you never end a sentence [LAUGHTER] I think a better theory comes Darwin that man has an to speak as we see in the Whereas no child has an brew, or write. Speech is instinctive, is, and always has been, hard. Your readers are unknown, They exist only in the They can't react if break into the conversation So writing is an and writing is an Well, what can we do to For many decades that you hand students this. The iconic Elements Of Style, Strunk, Jr., and his also known as the New of &quot;Charlotte's Web&quot; You will notice by the way that was born before the turn is before the turn There's no doubt of good sense in &quot;The And it is well it has pithy, little definite, specific, Write with nouns and verbs. Put the emphatic words of And in another little gem omit needless words. Which, indeed, omits On the other hand, of reasons why &quot;The be the sole basis of writing For one thing, it's filled Such as, the word, to be used with words of That is, you may Why not? If, of six people, how many people would be left? Answer, one people. Did you follow that? It would also rule out things does not seem to How's this? To contact is vague and contact people-- get look them up, phone them, Well yes, but what how one person is going to and what if it was just as instant message them, email The basis for this advice happened to be a neologism, and so it graded on his ears. In the many decades has become an unexceptionable precisely because it sometimes you don't going to get in touch with So you don't want to specify and so on. Or how about this one? Note that the word clever applied to people, and other A clever horse is a good-natured [LAUGHTER] The problem with traditional consists of an arbitrary on the tastes and It is not based on a principle works, and as a no way of understanding and and much of the advice, as I'll I think we can do better today. We could base writing and scholarship of language. On modern grammatical is a marked advance over grammars. Evidence-based Research in cognitive makes sentences easy And historical and And this is what I've tried It begins with a model As I mentioned, writing and good style, above all, of the communication scenario. Who is the reader, and trying to accomplish? My favorite model of the comes from a wonderful &quot;Clear and Simple as the from Francis-Noel Thomas, outline a model of communication The model is that prose is The writer sees the reader has not The writer positions the can see it with her own eyes. The writer and just that the writer that the reader has The goal is to help the reader and the style is conversation. Well this all sounds What is non-classic style? Well there are many they-- Turner and Thomas oracular style, practical But the ones that academics often write in is postmodern or self-conscious chief, if unstated concern of philosophical naivete They explain, &quot;when we completely put the author to put aside leads to the heart of certain Is it possible to Do eggs really exist? Is food something about Can anyone ever tell us Classic style, as inappropriate, philosophical If it took these could never get around and its purpose is exclusively And I believe that-- let is about showing it's only fair that I show you So here's an example from by the physicist Brian the theory of and one of its implications-- or the multiverse. Greene writes-- &quot;If space at ever earlier must have been ever smaller. At some moment in the we now see, the for every planet, every star, itself, must been compressed but then swelled outward, as we know it.&quot; The Big Bang theory was born. Yet scientists were aware that from a significant shortcoming. Of all things, it Einstein's equations of describing how the universe after the bang, break down similar to the by a calculator when you try to to the extreme environment of The Big Bang thus into what might have Now this covers some pretty and abstruse mathematics, but that you can see everything for If you know that then you can mentally and extrapolate back to the was infinitesimally small, the movie, going The abstruse concept of can be appreciated by the a calculator and and sure enough, your calculator Or, you could welcome to try to imagine mean for one to be parts, or some number of And so the reader exactly what Greene I believe that many examples are implications of the behind classic prose. For example, the should be on thing on the activity of studying it. The following is-- that group, daily Now I am daily-faced with that begin in the following way. &quot;In recent years, an increasing have turned their attention to acquisition. In this article recent will be reviewed.&quot; Well, no offense, but are really interested in how A classic way of introducing would be, &quot;All children to speak and without explicit lessons, how A corollary is to minimize that suffuses academic prose. Again, this should to those of you who have read &quot;The problem of is extremely complex. It is difficult to give of the concept of 'language' and the concept of children. There's much uncertainty of experimental data, and surrounding the theories. More research needs to be done.&quot; Well, classic prose for being smart enough to hard to define, and are hard to resolve. The reader is there to going to do about it. Another corollary of the is to minimize the that professional writers are drizzle their prose with Like-- somewhat, fairly, nearly, comparatively, predominately, and presumably. And the similar quotes, to imply that mean what they are saying. I'll give you an example from that I received. She is a quote been able to educate herself interests her. Well are we to understand this woman is a quick study, or namely someone who is kind a quick study, but maybe isn't. And what is that Is it that there are some areas where she just never or was unsuccessful in doing so. The use of hedges has become and academics that at a distinguished how she was and she of her four-year-old we virtually adore her. Aw. Why the compulsive hedging? Well there is a saying that you must always follow Anatomy. [LAUGHTER] And there is an alternative-- That is, it's often better to and as the physicists Even when you don't, one can of ordinary conversation to If someone says that they because it's a rainy not as implying that it seven days a week, But just that is and she didn't have Seattle is a relatively to understand it in that way. Another implication is that since it is must work to keep that the reader is rather than just And for that reason, it is avoid cliches like the plague. You're all familiar with dispenses verbiage to get the ball rolling in but found that it was neither a So we rolled with the chips fall where the glasses half full. Which is easier said than done. [LAUGHTER] AUDIENCE: Don't STEVEN PINKER: Pardon me? Or, of course, they turned At the leading edge, after they If you just ladle out either your reader will simply or if they keep get derailed by the Like this one from another &quot;Jeff is a renaissance to the core issues and Not clear how you can do No one has yet will knock people's socks off. And you may also be eligible Americans who figuratively Now it's OK to say it's a little more problematic And it's very, very bad to say Classic prose is about the conceptual tools with And so classic prose, namely concepts about concepts. Like approach, assumption, framework, issue, level, model, strategy, tendency, variable. And admit it, haven't you in professional prose? For example. This is from a lawyer-- in &quot;The New York Times.&quot; I have serious to amend the Constitution On the aspirational level, strategy may be more valuable. In other words, I to amend the Constitution but it may be valuable Or, it's important to from a variety of strategies, assistance, but also from a That is we need to but we also may have Classic prose narrates we see agents performing just as we do when an Non-classic prose tends and then refer to them in real time. And there is a dangerous that makes this all too Where you take a and you entomb it as a noun. So instead of appearing, Instead of organizing bring about the Helen Sword, an English scholar, because they kind of without any conscious their motion. And turgid professional prose like, &quot;prevention diminished social avoidance.&quot; Meaning when we the mice no longer &quot;Subjects were tested of good to excellent To which, &quot;We tested the Now the use of meta concepts, defines the stereotype in the public imagination. As in this editorial cartoon an academician that verbal SAT scores &quot;Incomplete implementation programmatics designated of awareness and utilization pursuant to standardize of languaginal development.&quot; Any interrogatory It isn't just academics and nominalizations, As when Rick Perry-- when Convention was threatened said, &quot;Right now there that there will be In other words, anticipate that we will And corporate consultants, to a reporter what he said, &quot;I'm a digital and I deliver programs, to our corporate clients across functions.&quot; The reporter kept pressing And finally he said, how to use Facebook.&quot; [LAUGHTER] AUDIENCE: Yeah, thank you! STEVEN PINKER: And Portable generators used to said, &quot;mild exposure in accumulated damage over time. Extreme exposure be fatal without producing Yeah, Yeah. And what began to happen is asphyxiated themselves by running them indoors. And so they changed using a generator indoors [LAUGHTER] STEVEN PINKER: So classic a matter of life and death. Yes, literally. OK, so how does understanding to better writing advice, Well another contributor is the passive voice. The difference between in the active voice, bitten by the dog in And it's well known is overused by academics. &quot;On the basis of was made of the data it is suggested that the null And by lawyers, &quot;If is prepaid in full, the will be refunded.&quot; And political officials, this of the Secret Service, who it was that an armed men managed House, sprint across into the White House. She admitted, What linguists call And not surprisingly, all warn writers away from As Strunk and White advised, The active voice is usually than the passive. Many a tame sentence can by substituting a transitive for some perfunctory expression And do you notice something a Yes, it uses the against the passive voice. George Orwell, in of writing advice that is handed also advises against He notes that, &quot;A and sheer incompetence is the of modern English prose. I list below various by means of which the is habitually dodged. The passive voice is wherever to the active, a bit of but two passives to warn Well this self-contradiction The passive could not survive for centuries if it did Why can't we do without it? The answer comes down to You can think of for converting a into a string of words. Now cognitive psychologists as a semantic network, a kind are nodes that and there are connectors, that stand for logical and among them. So this is a tiny and of a semantic network that of the tragic story brought to Rex.&quot; Now what happens when a bit of your knowledge Well you have to convert What is a sentence? It is a linear string of words. Such as, in Sophocles play, and killed his father. One word after another. Well this linearization of means that language is saddled The ordering of has to do two things at once. It has to serve as signaling to the reader but it also necessarily presents to the reader before how the information is absorbed In particular the earlier naturally pertains to the topic, what the reader is in The later material is the focus and it's what the reader Any prose that violates as we say, choppy. Or disjointed, or incoherent. So this now helps us of the passive, it the same semantic information, about who did what to whom but That is it allows the writer rather than with the do-er. Which is why avoid the The passive is the when the done-to is currently mental gaze. And let me give you an example. This is a passage taken for &quot;Oedipus Rex&quot; which in which the awful truth is brought to light-- spoiler Describing-- &quot;A messenger arrives It emerges that he was formerly and during that time The baby, he says, by another shepherd household who had been told Now notice that this passage First, all eyes are The passage begins, So we're looking It's natural then and say, &quot;He was given a baby.&quot; Well now our attention so you start the next and that will require that &quot;The baby was given to the Hey, another shepherd. Now we're looking at so it's natural that with the shepherd. had been told to get So it's a coherent passage kept in mind where the directed at every stage. Now imagine that he to convert the passage The passage would &quot;A messenger arrives It emerges that he was formally and during that time Another shepherd from he says, whom someone had gave the baby to him. Now that is much because your characters in a order that to the natural order of More generally, English with constructions that while preserving meaning. Oedipus killed Laius. Laius was killed by Oedipus. It was Laius whom It was Oedipus who killed Laius. And so on. And writers must that introduces ideas to the she can most naturally Well this brings us back to why is the passive so common in some circumstances in Well it's because a story that are who make things happen. Bad writers work backwards writing down ideas in the order They know how the so they begin with they throw in the cause and indeed the passive voice Part three, why do writers Why is it so hard for to convey ideas effectively? My favorite explanation is that has been called The inability that we what it's like for someone that you do know. Psychologists also call it and Hindsight Bias. The classic illustration taught to every A child comes into a lab, the a three-year-old boy an and he's surprised to So you stuff the ribbons back put it back on the table. Now he watches as We'll call him Jason. And you say to the is Jason think is in the box? And the boy says, ribbons. Even though Jason has no contains ribbons. He's just walked into the In fact, if you did you think was in the box And the child will say, ribbons. Now that he knows he could no longer entertain the he did not know or the mental state of Now we adults grow out of this Because many studies have are apt to project their own If you give students and you ask them which in the vocabulary of they will guest at know are the ones that ditto with factual knowledge. If you have people who with the gadget, such ask them to estimate how long it how to use the cellphone. The more adept you the less time you think to learn to use it-- because it I believe that the is the chief contributor It simply doesn't that the readers haven't know the intermediate seem too obvious to mention. They can't visualize in the writer's mind's And so the writer doesn't or to spell out the logic, or that allow the scene Just to give you is a passage of prose from a called &quot;Trends in that is meant to be of cognitive scientists I read it, and I had no idea And here's the passage. It's from an article &quot;The Slow and integrative is confirmed behaviorally by illusion, and its the way in which a stimulus is influenced by arising several after the original stimulus. Well the writer has that every reader would know but I've been in this and I've never heard of it. Nor was it clear what meant, what a stimulus was, a stimulus is perceived So I did a bit of digging, and I found that there the cutaneous rabbit solution If someone closes someone else taps them three of the elbow, three It feels like the series the length of your arm, kind The significance is where you on the later taps, so track events in real time, but so the way in which you affects where you perceive Well that's kind of just say that? Instead of stimulus this, It would've taken no would have been more scientific, because now a reader has a way Does that really show is slow and integrative, be some alternative explanation? The dangers of the Curse are best-illustrated Where a man walks one of the old And he sees it bunch of sitting around a table. He joins them, and And one of the old And everyone else erupts Another one says, 112, I can't figure out so he asked the guy next to Guys as well get these guys have but they all know so to save time they've And now, when they want to tell is recite the number. Guys says, that's So he says, 121. Stony silence. 27. Then everyone stares at He sinks back down to his next to him, what The guy said, oh, it's But anyway, giving jokes do, all too often without no way of knowing Well how do you exercise The traditional keep in mind the reader Remember who you Well this is good But it doesn't go terribly have shown that we're actually other people's knowledge, None of us is blessed with and people are often to define the mental states But still, it's a start so I'm talking to you, your readers they do and unless you try very that they don't know who you But a better way to deal is to actually get a show them a draft, and All too often, one will discover is not obvious to anyone else. You can also show after some time has passed, If you're like me you that doesn't follow, And all too often, Most advice on writing not as advice on how to write something that you can enough distance from your own curse of to apply all of your on improving the clarity Finally, how should we The issue of language that than all other writing Now some usages When Cookie Monster the error is so obvious that that even a preschool Similarly, I Can if we did not recognize that there would be nothing that there is anything and similar internet memes. [LAUGHTER] &quot;Is our children learning?&quot; This is so obviously that even President in a self-deprecating speech as an error in making There are other usages though, that are not so clear. And just to be bipartisan, in for president, had as &quot;Give Al Gore and I a chance The despised &quot;between you and pointed at the time of his linguistic ineptitude. Another democratic recently said &quot;No live under a cloud because of what they look like.&quot; The supposed in which the plural pronoun no American. &quot;To boldly go where no The infamous split infinitive. &quot;You think you lost your love. Well I saw her yesterday. It's you she's thinking of, The preposition at the And then the urbane, suave, from the 1970s, Dick Cavett, in York Times&quot; describing what reunion said, &quot;Checking it was nice to see a few of my Any of you spot the It is the dangling who went to school in Well contested issues to what journalist sometimes War between-- allegedly and the descriptivists. According to this, there are people other people ought Their credo might be summarized are objectively correct. To obey them is to uphold To flout them is to dumb degrade the language, and hasten On the other side are who describe how people Their credo might be are the secret handshake The people should be liberated Well if this was and I suspect it is not, should have said that have been &quot;It's you of And the descriptivists that there is nothing wrong Well, this doesn't seem to analyze problems of usage. And indeed, I think that We need a better way of Well are rules of usage? What does it mean has Cheezburger is a grammatical give Al Gore and I a chance These rules, whatever are not an objective fact that a scientist could go out Nor are they theorems of logic Many people believe are stipulated by a governing of dictionaries, and I can here to say that I'm the chair of the usage Dictionary and when I joined, of the dictionary's editors decide what goes And the answer was &quot;We pay words.&quot; That is, when it there's no one in charge. The lunatics are So what then are that they are not objective logical truths, or stipulated You can think of them as Convention is a that has no inherent that everyone else has agreed An obvious example why there's a green, rectangular It's because everyone else Why do we drive because there's anything opposed to the very good reasons to than everyone else whichever side it happens to be. There's a joke to work who gets a cell She warns him, honey, I've you should be very careful. There's a maniac on driving in the wrong And he says, one maniac? There are 100s of them. And the conventions that is they are not say like the Rules Committee But they emerge as within a virtual community without any explicit or legislation. And it's an evolving that consensus may So should writers And the answer is, it depends. Some rules simply extend the to more complicated cases. Why do we say that, &quot;Is is grammatically incorrect? Well, it is equivalent to and everyone agrees that, is gramatically incorrect. Similarly, &quot;The impact of the There, it's a little but when you simply take out the you get, &quot;The impact and again it pops The writer was misled by which is plural into Whereas in fact the subject a few words upstream, When you get rid of that the violation pops out at you. Now you all recognize the of Microsoft's grammar checker. Probably most of the that you will discover consist of errors that you may fail to have inverted, or a few But we can all agree that and they really Also there are some that make important Namely, if you are addressing they may have different than the one you had in mind. For example, the a fancy synonym the word full. If you were to thank someone that they sent you, would you would not be because fulsome it means insincere and insincerely flattering. Likewise, simplistic is of saying simple, simplistic Fortuitous in the expectation is not another way And if someone is to call them meretritious. If you're not sure why, In general, English does that share the same root, and so one should to try to sound by using a hoity-toity If you do, you might that Vizzini did in when he kept using the to things that just happened. You keep using that word. I do not think it means On the other hand, not or bit of folklore, or from Ms. Thistlebottom's is a legitimate role of usage. Many of the alleged roles in are routinely flouted and have always been An excellent example In a recent rant in a one language grump they was an innovation brought and that we should a gender neutral monstrosity and that we should ignore and instead go back to the pure, Austen. Well a scholar named in an article called &quot;Everyone actually went back to of Jane Austen and found no fewer than 87 times. So what's a writer to do? How should a careful writer of usage from the bogus ones? Well the answer is Look them up. Look them up in a modern Many sticklers and snoots assume that any rule will be backed up by the major Whereas in fact, which do pay close attention used by competent writers are of grammatical nonsense. If you look up split infinitive unabridged, for example, &quot;It's all right to in the interest of clarity. Since clarity is the usual this advice means can split them And you'll get similar Dictionary, the Encarta World House Dictionary, and so on. Modern dictionaries do not, in fact, ban singular they, prepositions at They represent the difference usage advice versus kind of Also, correct usage should So I think it is well correct and incorrect usage. It's the least important You can obey every rule and you can still be It is far less important overcoming the To say nothing of and keeping ideas and Also, even the are not signs of the And this is best captured by the now bestselling Munroe, in which he has a ghost and says-- the a cautionary vision This is the future. And this is the the fight over the That is, they are So to sum up, I think and cognitive science of our enhancing our prose. A model of prose communication, in which language is a An understanding works, in particular must convert a web of thoughts A diagnosis of why good namely the Curse of to make sense of as tacit, evolving conventions. Thank you very much. Any interrogatory MALE SPEAKER: Thank If you have a to the stuff to that you can be heard and in remote offices. I do apologize, we won't maybe two or three you cannot have too I enjoyed it myself, even though So, go ahead. AUDIENCE: Thanks I have a question, interested in how you have not just in this presentation and I'm curious Do you keep them in your specifically for STEVEN PINKER: Both. So I have-- for many literally for I have-- in the I used to read and when I'd come across an would cut it out, circle it, Now I can cut and paste For examples of bad prose, of being an academic. So I swim in the stuff. That was the easy part. And then there are some sites It turns out there's a Pinterest collected every cartoon or find that was about was a rich source of grammatical And as I was writing kept an eye open for examples So a bit of everything. AUDIENCE: Hi there, I'm looking forward Just a small thing but you reminded me I was shopping for a I actually was digging and rejecting all the ones as a word, because But I guess it is STEVEN PINKER: Yes AUDIENCE: Darn it! And also figuratively has been misused for there's a lot of But I was wondering, you and I kept wondering, you're talking about talking about English. Have you explored anything with like this that are similar languages, or not STEVEN PINKER: I imagine would carry over. We all comprehend things and the advantage of to visualize something as cliches surely holds And indeed, classic style which a lot of these bits of advice According to Thomas was actually invented by of the 17th century. And even though French different from English like Descartes, and with this conceit of pretending a world all the differences and English language There are, to be sure, there especially when it comes to the of words in syntax conveys Because there there are some differences. In German for example, at the end of the sentence And so the tips on how to engage would have to be I'll find out when into other languages and how the translator As far as the words-- new incentivize actually turns because there's of the guidelines for writing And if you say something that's an awful lot Moreover, when you compress it adds a semantic difference. Namely that it implies that you are directly And as we become more aware may have been thought up some abstract goal may Because as soon as they people will follow Perhaps doing of what the writers the verb incentivize reminds you are automatically changing and so it conveys an above and beyond AUDIENCE: Right it STEVEN PINKER: Exactly, it's causal. AUDIENCE: As opposed to STEVEN PINKER: Exactly. AUDIENCE: Which does I've gotten over it, So I'm over it now. STEVEN PINKER: In fact so and probably many have gone through is what E.B. White never went from to contact as a neologism And so this happens. Whether or not you're that incentivize it doesn't matter what we think. If people use it, it becomes Yes, the dictionary they have no choice. There are selling a product What does useful mean? You write according to the expect words to be used. What we do int he American that because it's when you look something you don't care about how uses language. You have in mind a kind of who care about language, who in their choice of words. So we assembled a sample, of about 200 journalists, poets, novelists, kind who just have shown And we pole them, we ask them, And their decisions what goes into the dictionary. And in cases where it's there will be a usage the history of the word, and you-- the writer can then AUDIENCE: I went and put post-it notes on all STEVEN PINKER: Of AUDIENCE: To be as opposed to STEVEN PINKER: That's because there, again, there are purists who would from college, but that's not AUDIENCE: Thanks very much. STEVEN PINKER: Thank MALE SPEAKER: I apologize, questions, and then AUDIENCE: Hi, thanks for coming, I studied you a long time ago I-- on the subject of usage convention, and pet peeves, you're exposed to what but I think this group knows verbs as nouns, or nouns as asks in the meeting, STEVEN PINKER: Asks. AUDIENCE: Asks-- yeah, plural. It's very, very, irritating. Or the learnings that Or to architect I want to know if this bothers and if you might consider but this be abolished. STEVEN PINKER: Well [LAUGHTER] I'll tell you why. AUDIENCE: You heard this right? STEVEN PINKER: Yeah. Oh yes absolutely. And I have a Dilbert the boss with the pointy hair I would like to task and she and she My world is falling A couple of observations-- This has been going on, probably probably at least since or at least early Again the reason that Strunk with to contact is that contact and it was turned into a verb. Now, do any of you have I don't have a problem And in fact, if you were to go you would find of the verbs started We notice the new ones, been going on for it's one of the things And you often forget how many To chair a meeting, to table to hand me the cookies, There are-- it's only the new It's not that it's inherent that verbing a noun Then there's a-- a lot of corporate especially when But there are ones a foothold in the language they not only capture a meaning but they add the extra a conventional, And that's why task Who knows whether it will last, of the ones for But there's nothing we will come from nouns AUDIENCE: Trying to [INAUDIBLE]. STEVEN PINKER: [LAUGHTER] Yes. Last question. Maybe say the serenity that you can't do AUDIENCE: So you mentioned and how horrifying it can be. And there's also like that have evolved to use be mean, like peruse, people use to to pour over in detail. STEVEN PINKER: Yes, peruse. AUDIENCE: I'm all for the but it seems like to have words evolve to mean And I was wondering what STEVEN PINKER: Right. Well there is this a contranyms or autoantonyms. Things like to dust, mean to put dust on, or to take dust To sanction, to table. Often what happens a word will start off and then have slightly different one meaning will give rise and have sentences that It doesn't happen all that are clear in context. The vast majority of words You just flip over and it's meaning one, and generally they are They can survive side by can mean either actually or it could mean sophisticated. Conservative can of the American or resistant to change. And so you have and it's not an oxymoron. So word meanings can coexist. In terms of doing I quote the famous exchange once wrote, I And Thomas Carlyle who Language change is and there's almost nothing It doesn't mean that language though because often the can survive side by side that we do like. And it's interesting to go and find the same issues were annoying people So if you're one of the the word disinterested to mean opposed to being a And you worry if people use we're going to lose that lovely unbiased or without But people have been to mean bored for have the more precise meaning So language change does not Often the more precise And literally is another use it to me as a kind a bit of hyperbole. But there's still cases to mean literally that that's the way MALE SPEAKER: Thank you it's been a joy. And thank you all for coming.