What did life in ancient Egypt actually look In this animated documentary, you'll see We'll walk through a reconstructed ancient You'll also see exactly what work and family This is the perfect introduction to the daily This video is brought to you for free by the The best in apparel for fans of the ancient Check out the ancient egypt collection at Link in the description. Social classes in ancient Egypt. There were many specialised jobs and different even 90% of Egypt lived similarly to how you'll You may have seen a pyramid like this that These representations are somewhat misguided Here's the reality. You were either royal, a free citizen, or Social class is not like we think of it today. Money didn't exist in ancient egypt, so a lower, middle and upper class. You can of course be wealthy through means Egyptians were poor farm workers. In ancient Egypt, you were either of royal So at the very top is our pharaoh and all Our pharaoh is a god living on earth. His close family living in the palace would connection to him. All free citizens are in the next rung down. Priests, noblemen, soldiers and scribes. Merchants, traders, farmers and skilled craftsmen. This is everybody that isn't royal but is At the very bottom are serfs and slaves. They had no rights and many in this group Let's focus on the lives of free men though, worked on farms. Like almost every civilization that came before society. To not farm would be the exception to the So, a whole documentary about farmers? It may not sound like the most glamourous very best way for us to understand exactly Farmers also did so much more than just farming, Ancient egypt and The Nile river Are we seriously going to talk about a river? Bare with me. The longest river on earth is unbelievably All major cities were built along the Nile. You may have heard the famous quote by Greek of the nile". As a farmer you couldn't agree with this Growing crops was difficult throughout most You had to rely on rainfall. If the clouds didn't shower the earth, your If your crops didn't grow, you didn't So you're living in the arid desert. Surely growing crops is virtually impossible. Agriculture in a desert is obviously not ideal. The good news is, the Nile runs through egypt. It flooded life into what would otherwise The Nile was so consistent that Egyptians There were three seasons Akhet, Peret and Every year, the river usually flooded, covering Silt is a dark high quality soil that's This was the time to sew your seeds. Shemu was when it was time to gather all of The work life of an egyptian farmer. The Egyptian idea of work compared to ours You didn't get paid for work like we do. Egyptians didn't have any coins or money; Egyptians didn't have weekends. The only days off you got were public holidays. Conveniently, holidays were usually set on of the season. There is one remarkably unique perk to being A perk that most workers today would be in A benefit that would make work life so much The main plus to being an Egyptian farmer cat to work. Imagine if your office encouraged your cat Ah, how work would be so much more enjoyable. Whilst Egypt undeniably loved cats, they didn't the company. We'll get to the whole cat situation in I did mention that there was no money, so Well, workers were most commonly compensated This basically meant that if you wanted something need to barter to acquire it. The wheat and produce you grew was your currency. Money doesn't grow on trees they say. Not true if you're an Egyptian farmer of All sorts of vegetables and fruits were grown, two cereal grains: barley and emmer wheat, These were the essentials and they became Towards the end of the Egyptian timeline, wheat variations, but for the most part, you'd as a farmer. How Farming In Ancient Egypt Worked If you didn't have the means to own land near the nile which were owned by the government It was the same routine every year as the Throughout the flood it wasn't possible to You need to stay productive though so during the pharaoh such as pyramids or temples. The farming process was a family affair. Together, you'd break down the soil with The actual mechanics of farming were relatively equipment was used. If you had oxen, they would drag a plow through a straight line. The alternative to plowing with oxen was man Once the field was plowed, your wife or daughters they carried. When they had finished, a herd of sheep would Once this had all been done, it was all about A lot of your time would be spent in the canals. The canals carrying water to your land constantly It was essential that they were running optimally a consistent supply of water. No rain and a massive demand for water meant What you're looking at is one of the most It's called a shaduf. It's pretty simple; a long pole with a bucket It made moving water from the nile back to Shadufs worked though. So well in fact, these tools are still used Months pass. Your time will be spent weeding, shooing off You now have something extremely important Your entire family would race out onto the Your sons would use sickles to cut the wheat Your daughters, wife and grandparents would floor. These would be tied into bundles. The remaining long wheat stems were collected The bundles of harvested wheat heads onto area. Threshing was the process of separating grain Animals like cows, goats, pigs and donkeys it. Next you'd separate the wheat from the chaff Winnowing is tossing the wheat into the air the chaff blows away. The wheat would be collected and turned into You'd ground and sieve the wheat to refine Your unrefined grain would be stored in a These silos were a problem because rats and Remember how we were talking about bringing It makes sense doesn't it, a pet cat would If you're a cat person and you want to know you won't want to miss. It's called Bastet The Egyptian Cat Goddess. You can see the full documentary on my channel Whilst cat's were probably the most popular brought onto the farm. Outside of domesticated farm animals, a dog pet. Like cats, dogs were practical. They'd protect your herds of cattle, and There'd be a special place around the side Houses In Ancient Egypt Houses in ancient Egypt ranged from little Many farmers would live modestly in sun baked There were lots of clever architectural tricks would need to protect you from. The desert had wild temperature swings near Your shelter would need to protect you from cold. The front door would face north to take advantage At the top of your house were small windows the hot air to rise and escape. Reed canopies were often propped up on the Adults sat and worked under the canopy, whilst These types of houses were built with three The entrance was usually a room for people This room was also dedicated to honoring your The next rooms would be a kitchen or store Some houses had an underground cellar that This hidden room was accessed through a hatch The final room would be a bedroom. Your family would sleep in the same room on In terms of furniture, you'd likely own Wood was rare and prohibitively expensive; is there. So that's most of the essential rooms. But one essential room is missing isn't Where is your bathroom? Both your bathroom and your toilet would be that would be emptied into the nile river. As previously mentioned, outside of your house rest, along with more of these odd looking You'd own several of these silos as wheat Every meal featured a grain derived product Food and Drink in ANcient Egypt For us, the daily recommended caloric intake calories. This number obviously varies based on body Egyptians consumed nearly double this every 3780 calories. Interestingly, this is almost exactly the eats nowadays. Almost every Egyptian man or woman, would So how is it that they'd be in amazing shape calories? The simple answer is a highly active lifestyle natural foods. There was no such thing as processed junk Now with that being said, beer was the most You'd drink beer through a straw with almost Beer was stored in large pots and spoiled Spices and dates were added to make it more This might sound crazy, but even children What kind of parent would give their child It was actually safer for you to drink beer The nile also known as ancient Egypts toilet. As you can imagine, there were lots of nasty to the sanitizing effect of alcohol and the the better option. Like beer, bread was also a staple of all There were a myriad of different shapes of shapes like curvy women and birds. In terms of texture, your bread would be coarse Living in the desert is a problem when you're Sand would blow into your bread as it was Rock fragments also found their way into bread were being ground. Chewing rocks and sand wasn't great for Across every Egyptian class, people had terrible Fortunately, the rest of your diet would be You're a farmer so you have access to many Onions, lettuce, peas, dates, apples and nuts For humans, meat has been the most valued Its massive nutritional density is unrivaled. Meat however, was scarce. It wasn't as bad as, say, the middle ages but it was still a rare commodity. You still have a need for high quality nutrients fish or hunt some wild birds like geese or Ah, this will be fun. Let's do a summary of what a full day of Alright, breakfast. You'd have some bread and perhaps some duck Maybe a sweet treat. Let's go with som figs and dates. You need to wash down that bread though. It's dry and full of sand. Let's go with a nice cup of fresh goats A pretty good start to a long work day I think. You wouldn't eat again until dinner time though. You only ate twice a day. By now you'd be starving. It was a damn long day on the farm. We're gonna have a pretty big meal here. We simply could not start off supper without For some variety and to make sure you stay of vegetables next. Meals didn't always include a staple protein, You caught some fish and a duck also followed Your protein would be covered in a range of Just when you feel like your belly is about Honey was used to make sweet bread and cakes. The trick with an egyptian dessert is the Death in ancient egypt. In Egypt, you'd likely live a short, but You'd become a grandfather or grandmother live for very long by today's standards. Many Egyptians died before they even reached The infant mortality rates were also terrible. As far as causes of death, there were many. Disease was very common as your rubbish was nile. No sewer systems existed, so you disposed This was the exact same river you got your Cheers to a fresh glass of the niles finest. Bathing was also done with nile water. Until Graeco-Romans times, putting your feet the question. Bathing in the nile itself was always an issue Disease and Hippos aren't the Niles only People went out for a swim and disappeared found. Many farmers also died working on the pyramids you'd experience in a dangerous workplace It didn't help that by our standards, quality Death itself was a process that was steeped We'll talk about mummification and the afterlife Just know that the after life was of great Even the poorest received some type of proper They may not have had the full service mummification with tradition with dignity and respect. Family life and Free Time in ancient Egypt Families usually had several generations living Your children would have plenty of free time went to schools to learn reading and writing. Education was a privilege reserved only through Your sons were expected to adopt your trade. As their father, you'd teach them all the can pass trade knowledge onto their sons. Your daughters would stay home and complete When your kids weren't working the fields today. Boys liked wrestling and learning to hunt. Girls liked playing with dolls and dancing. By the time they were teenagers, Egyptians Girls were married around this time typically. Marriages were social contracts rather than When you have a marriage, children and a full much time for leisure. Other than the occasional holiday, every day This doesn't mean life is bad or unenjoyable I know through a western lens it may seem was simple and predictable. You'd find enjoyment and satisfaction in Spending time with your family on the field. Singing and exchanging banter with your co-workers Teaching your sons how to throw a spear. Enjoying a good meal after a hard day's work. Merchants, soldiers, scribes, priests, pharaohs, These are just a few of the many options for Leave a comment with which daily life documentary you don't miss out on it, be sure to click Also, do not miss the new releases on the Get an ancient egyptian inspired necklace Visit newhistoria.com. Link in the description. This has been Apollo for newhistoria, I'll