Thanks Manscaped for sponsoring this video. I needed that my mouth. Look at your sweating this whole milk. -Sure bad everybody. I must say And this is the star of today's show. The bomb also known as the death sauce. If you watch Youtube you know exactly what this is. Coming from the youtube show Hot Ones this sauce death. We're talking about over a hundred and is no joke. Just opening up the bottle this smell closer look let me show you how thick this thing of ketchup but it is far away from being that. And age it. Talking about that this is what we're going As you can see it has beautiful intramuscular fat. looks like great marbling. To really find out if be splitting a little bit, one is gonna be the other one on the other hand we're gonna be using to do is to put it in the special bag, all there's the air can circulate all the way around. That moving on to the liquid death sauce. The first I threw the roast right on top because now you i'm going to be keeping my mouth shut because [epic music] As you can see once I was done every single edge now this feels like a huge mistake, because believe experiment, that is how powerful this thing is. The this to a tray because all we have to do is to put Once the time was up I took it out and see every day. When you take a closer look you the steak. All of the spices and seeds are still is so strong that it seems like the sauce killed Because the next thing to do is to try to remove to. Everything has penetrated the meat, there's a big mistake! But hey if you've ever seen any of to remove all of the pellicles, because trying to and started by removing the bone and when I did but leave a little bit of the sauce behind. And as it is a sign that the sauce penetrated deeply hey here we are so it's time to continue, and for out. And once I was done I was left with actually is when you take a closer look you can tell that all of that out. Man I think me and my nephew we also have the regular dry aged one. Just like the outer layer as well and as you can see once I Exactly what we were looking for. And I know that you are wondering here's what they look like side what you think we should be using to dry age next. for that I kept it real simple. Since salt is the properly as once I was done I finished it up with Keeping it real simple will allow us to really going to be fantastic, But if the way it smells is find out real shortly as now the only thing left first thing to do is to put a nice beautiful sear, heat until I reach an internal temperature of 135 wireless thermometers. As now I say it is enough [rock music] Doesn't that look absolutely insane and sponsor Manscaped. Christmas came early this year package by Manscaped. I can hear the jingle balls all-in-one men's grooming kit that literally have out the lawnmower 4.0 waterproof cordless technology to reduce nicks and cuts and it has nice stocking stuffers, the crop preserver ball Then check out the weed whacker for your ears 2.0 luxury six-piece stainless steel nail kit. So or a loved one's wish list this year. For a limited bag and the Manscaped anti chafing boxer briefs. to Manscape.com and use my promo code Guga to two free gifts. Thank you Manscaped for sponsoring spicy dry age experiment. Oh man we're about to All right everybody here we have our beautiful steaks. Obviously we have two of them. What does that mean? -Experiment time. -That's right everybody we got an experiment it is extremely hot here in there's no tomorrow. This is going to go either way It's going to be either really bad or really start the video for me you know. -Enough talking go ahead and try this one here first. You ready Hum. -So it's a dry aging experiment. -It is a Explain to people that never had a dry aged like something different in the aftertaste of the or you love it. -Here I'll keep it really really it's just better, all right, that's all I can say. regular dry age? -That's control for sure. -Exactly. will be the experiment. Are you ready? -Let's go. -Oh that's. -Oh man! Is that different Angel? -Hold on everybody it's getting sweaty over. -Hold on. Oh my god i was already sweating because it was hot and now I'm sweating I'll tell you immediately. -Spicy. -It's spicy boy. that's what I'm feeling right now. Slightly spicy. -It tastes a little bit dry aged. -Very little. -The spice makes it hard to - Look at you sweating like a pig. -It's outside and yeah already like sweaty. -Yeah. Its just the cherry on top, now I gotta sweat a little bit more. -I'll tell you why Da Bomb everybody. -Since I'm already sweating -Yeah this one guys I'll tell you right now. -Yo what are you doing? -Come on bro. -Are you crazy? Oh yeah yeah two drops right. -Hey you got to do it, you got to do it for real. -Oh die right now. -Whatever we're already -Oh this is such a bad idea. -This is a bad idea! -Wow -Let's give it a little dip, I'm gonna be a huge saucy right now. -All right let's go I'm not I think that's a dab. -That's how much they put in the wings. Oh man that's spicy bro. -It's immediate. -Yeah tried this, this thing is just like. -I gotta go, I gotta go. -You needed milk? Give me some milk. I needed that. My mouth, look at you -I'm gonna drink this whole milk. -Shoot that everybody. good. Does this taste good? It, this straight up it doesn't taste good, it's straight up for you -Not okay. Anyway guys we gotta go because If you did enjoy it make sure to give it subscribe for future videos. Remember if you are Please let us go I'm dying. -Thank you so much Take care everybody. Oh my god it's just burning.