Transcriber: Yunhan Jiang Good morning. (Ethereal music) It has been quite a privilege being able to grow up I was born in Germany, and at the same time had the chance to learn more about an ancient art When you grow up in an Asian family, it is quite common that firstly, you don't argue and secondly, you either engineer, or lawyer. Elsewise your parents So having that said, I finished my academic education an MBA, and quite a collection everything that my parents thought But throughout this education, I felt something was missing. Because I was learning how the plant is working, what an atom is made out of, how a political system is functioning, but somehow, the subject was missing to learn something about myself. So with the age of four, for the first time I got introduced and I was very happy to find out were dealing with the exploration There was mental training, development of behavior all aspects of what nowadays Now, despite the wishes of my parents to somehow go out in the market I decided to continue this monastic life and start learning more Now, in the preparation for this talk, I was asked to share a few words on what is important in this lifetime, and see, it's already challenging to put three decades into a single talk. But the picture I would like to show you summarizes very much what I consider There is something There is something about connection. There is the training It is to enjoy your time, And one main aspect is to find a way and do the things you like to do. Now, when I received the invitation to have a talk at today's event, especially under the slogan something very particular and a master from the Shaolin Temple once told me a story (Flute music) A man was living close to a mountain, and every day he was thinking: How would it be to climb that mountain and what would I see on the peak? So finally, the day came, Arriving at the foot of the mountain, he met the first traveler. So he asked, &quot;How did you get up the mountain, And so the traveler shared his path, and also the view that he had. But then the man was thinking, &quot;The way that this traveler described I need to find another way to climb.&quot; So he continued to walk until he met the next traveler. So once again he asked, &quot;How did you climb up that mountain, and what did you see from the top?&quot; And so again the traveler Still not being determined the man asked 30 more people, When he finished talking to all of them, he finally made up his mind. &quot;Now that so many people and especially what I don't need to climb there anymore.&quot; It is very unfortunate this man never went on the journey. Now, to conclude this story, firstly, each individual needs to find to climb that mountain. But secondly, there is information possible to be shared with words, but it is impossible to share the experience of clarity when you are standing To invest the right effort in climbing that peak, it's very much what the Shaolin training, or any spiritual practice is about. Clarity means you see more clear. When you see more clear, When you see more clear, there is no need to believe anyone Seeing clear means which is the proper direction to take and which decisions do I have to make in order to make my goals Now, at today's talk, to become inspired But in this particular talk, I can't, and I won't tell you It's just that along you will encounter challenges. Those challenges will either prevent you, or some of them even stop you, from moving on and climbing that mountain. In the Shaolin Temple, as &quot;the five hindrances.&quot; The five hindrances are describing In those states of the mind, it becomes very hard to see clearly and therefore engage The first hindrance Sensual desire arises in the moment when you are paying that is giving you a positive emotion. This positive emotion can originate Seeing, hearing, smelling, So in your mind, After one mile of walking, you discover a beautiful restaurant surrounded by beautiful people. You smell delicious food When you follow that temptation, you have already lost your track. When this temptation becomes so strong that you don't want then the sensual desire In both cases, remaining at that place means The second hindrance, &quot;ill-will,&quot; describes the state of the mind that arises from negative emotions. In that state of the mind, you have an aversion, against either an object, a situation, To simplify, it means: You are climbing the mountain, and it starts to rain, but you don't like rain. You discover the roads are bumpy, but you don't like bumpy roads. In order to cross the river, but you don't like swimming. Whatever it is that you dislike, it won't make it a pleasant journey unless you learn It's more likely even The third hindrance originally &quot;Sloth&quot; means it's &quot;Torpor&quot; means it's It is characterized by sleepiness, non-motivation, lack of energy, and oftentimes can manifest itself in a state of depression. Now, a simile used in Buddhism You find yourself locked in a cell. It becomes very hard to make any type So in order to continue your path, there is only one option left. You need to find a way to get out Now, the fourth hindrance It is the state of an unsettled mind. &quot;Unsettle mind&quot; means (Laughter) Settle in the present moment. An unsettled mind or traveling into the past and rejecting, judging about an event A simile used here is the monkey mind, constantly jumping unable to stay for too long time The problem is there is no time Now, the last of the five hindrances and it's very closely related which is based on indecisiveness. It is very easy in that state of mind Can I do this? Is this the right path? What will the others say? What if this? What if that? The mind cannot synchronize And the result is that you are getting disconnected with the goals and aspirations When the way is filled more often you will stop That we know the five hindrances now, what are we going to do about them? You need to align and structure to prevent those hindrances from arising. If you are not successful, you need to use techniques Each of these hindrances is placing or on the way of your climb. Simply remember one thing: Just let it rain. (Sound of rain) This is a four step method to help you removing those hindrances. The first step is recognize in what state of the mind [Recognize, Accept, Afterwards, learn to accept, acknowledge, and allow the situation or a person to be the way how it is, to be the way how they are. Investigate your and ask questions: Why did it come up? What is going to be the consequence And ultimately, non-identification means: It is the practice. I am not the body. I am not the mind. I am not my emotion. It's just that I can see All of our lifetimes, all of our lives are too unique to copy the path from someone else. To bring meaning to your life, to bring value into your life, you need to learn and master yourself, and don't let the hindrances stop you. If any of you chooses to climb that path to clarity, I would be very happy (Music) (Applause)