Hyundai Motor Group is the the world by volume. This is no mean feat for years ago was considered Now, the three auto nipping at the heels of competitors and winning The Hyundai that we see American perspective, um, they remember the Hyundai American automobile While Tesla still Hyundai and Kia are On the electrification has done a really great They've put some some there. But the company doesn't It wants to revolutionize robotics, autonomous Many of the bold have stepped back from to. I think we are a When you look at we're doing things that fiction. But the company has faced plague of thefts so bad cover their cars, risk of catching fire, a snub from the US In this time of are no proven strategies Everything is a gamble In just one decade. Hyundai Motor Company, from about $80 billion in 124 billion. Sales dipped slightly in than recovered. 2023 was consecutive year of sales, this time totaling about eight times the late 1990s. Of course, several gains in what economists year, but Hyundai did automaker Stellantis. As of January 2024, most popular brand in the Toyota. The Hyundai Kia premium brand Genesis, companies in EV sales. This is despite the fact fully qualify for the Customers can get Hyundai vehicles, which lease rates from 2% to They're generally widely most advanced vehicles, vehicles. The E-gmp stuff that's coming in considered some of the the market. E-gmp stands for Electric The skateboard like extremely flexible enough of vehicle shapes. It is loaded with cutting things, rapidly fast I want to just call the recently in Chicago when extremely low, right? So different technology, had no issues with the vehicles. 2023 US sales of its fully up 90%. The hybrid Tucson and both set sales records. In a bit of historical five by every by standards, is a far, far Toyota's comparable the Bz4x's. It is a historical irony Hyundai got to where it imitating Toyota. Hyundai Motor was founded one of Korea's massive, conglomerates known as Its first assembly plant one of the world's of making 1.6 million Ulsan's first project was Cortina. What it learned pony. It then made a move future recruit a talented Giorgetto Giugiaro. One of the most iconic he was the one that that exterior. And that helped this car coming from a for building cars, um, modern and contemporary The Giugiaro designed the first car sold in the They were cheap and, you cheap in in every sense You got what you paid Its low price iconic it was from an Asian Americans were besotted reputation for quality staggering success. It sold 100,000 units in nearly 169,000 for the strongest US launch by an But pretty quickly, Hyundais weren't built to cars. By 1998, Hyundai's dropped to about 90,000 The top management important quality and a huge focus on improving Hyundai's chairman and CEO koo, adopted a fast the best practices of which at the time meant Toyota and Honda. Under him, Hyundai quality against its Then they designed a lot the end of the assembly They were keeping good defects, which let them In early 2000, actually, very comparable to US big Japanese cars. Even it was still lower than The next step was to put claim by launching a ten powertrain warranty. That was a real headline It certainly helped to American consumers serious about quality. Now they were no longer uh, poorly made cars. Um, no, they were now enough to be backed by, warranties that anybody The 1997 Asian financial of many companies in makers. Daewoo was a until Hyundai bought a would boost sales in repair its image problem. Over time, the stake has Hyundai offered $886 creditors forgive 80% of debt. The two combined Group. The arrangement is two companies to share crucially, top staff. They brought in heavy European brands Peter Group and Luc Bentley, Lamborghini, Albert Biermann came from division. That really started to thought about products Suddenly you had cars then, you know, their really interesting design brands. You know, they else. You know, they were attractive. And each each signature to it. There have been missteps Its high end Genesis despite critical acclaim. This is primarily because six years of its sedans in a market that More alarmingly, millions recalled over fire risk. The company's reputation of. Cars lacked engine that renders the engine theft. These are just some of the TikTok. The cars stolen Despite the fact that, you better quality reputation 30 years ago, there's popping up here and Hyundai has spent hundreds addressing the crisis, fix, a software update, stadiums and parking lots avoid overwhelming It's been a huge success, positive sentiment and the number of anti-theft Like its peers, Hyundai is movement. Emboldened by negotiations with Detroit Auto Workers union has toward foreign automakers as of February 2023. The union says more than Hyundai's Montgomery, union cards. Hyundai says 25% through 2028. We don't have facts to they have 30%. We will just stay the We'll offer our employees We have support from our from the local state authorities. And we have to make an and get the workers to to So far, they've chosen And let's see what It is also hampered by The federal EV tax credit Reduction Act is only American made cars. When a President Biden in 2022, and then our Chung presented to him the United States, which billion. Now we're more probably growing, right. So the president said, no We appreciate your you down. That was made We saw IRA and all of a qualify for the so-called a not good. We, uh, were not happy, down so that we will rather than later. The $12.6 billion is going Georgia. It's a site that assembly and two battery in partnership with makers. Nevertheless, investments in hybrids, powertrain. Automakers are a better solution for short terms. But also I've mentioned to will be ready to react conditions change. So, consumers want more Okay, then we'll produce We'll bring more hybrids We want it to be always we still see the great battery. It is. But it is also publicly largest share of hydrogen that has not taken off in been ridiculed by the Musk. Hyundai makes the teased the hydrogen concept. A new factory Singapore is highly calls a cell based Cars are assembled at the conveyor that This is where Hyundai is newest ideas. These are excited about. He uses frequently. Some people criticize the those areas are too much those each of those areas uncertainty, a. Partner supplier, Aptiv, call it would begin motional, a joint project driving technology that other automakers away from. Hyundai has So technology is something committed to that. So one appreciate very much, or to exit, okay, that's Hyundai is also taking The automaker is also the Amazon on a pilot project platform. The online sales are going with and or without without Hyundai, because trend for everybody. You know, they don't They don't imitate the They don't imitate US Because in this new there is no leader, which past industry. This has changed the Management under Chung laser focused on a clear status in quality Five years ago, if I we are today, well, I was I thought we were going think we made way more expected.