Why always keep on this device doesn't Hi everyone. with something that I think is a very common misconception or And it's of a nature that's actually causing people to lose data by accident. do what you think it does So what I want to do is explain what the feature really is, what it doesn't do depending on what kind of a problem Let's have a quick look here at Windows Eleven and I'll So I've got one drive running on this Windows Eleven machine. I'm Click on Settings and you'll see here that under the Settings tab is this What that feature is is Now the keep files on this device, which we'll show you in just a moment, It has nothing to do with anything else. It is just this feature. So you can see I've got If you turn off the feature, files when you use them, will be downloaded to your machine So if you've got 5GB of data stored in OneDrive online, then with this feature up on your machine because all those files With this feature turned on, all of those files will still be but they won't take up any space, at least So let's have a look at what that means. I'm going to go ahead and open and you can see that. The interesting thing to look This is telling you exactly where the data This first one. The status is a little cloud icon. What this tells me is that the files that are in here and you can see the The file is accessible on this machine. There's even enough data there But the actual data for the file, ahead and switch over to a details view So it's five megabytes, but it's not That file exists. The data for that file exists only online. It exists only in my OneDrive account It may exist on other machines, but for the purposes of this discussion, and comparing it to what is stored So the file you can see it's It's present. I could double click However, when I do that, The delay is OneDrive saying, He wants to open it. I better go get the data. The data is not downloaded And the way it determines whether I need If I try to open it, if I try to edit it, in that file, then after Yes, it's taking up its five megabytes or whatever on my machine, So it's a space saving feature. Now, if I right click on this file, is this item that says What that does. The only thing it does The file is still listed The file is usable like it was before, The data is actually on my PC. The best way to think of it is you've turned off that space saving other files that you So if I click on this, Now all of a sudden you'll see Now this status icon has That means the file is It's been downloaded, or do anything, it'll happen more quickly It's already there, And of course, if I want to change that, I can right click on it again Always keep on this device and that will then change it so that it removed. The data will be optionally removed And you probably saw there was this other that will actually cause the data It won't take up space anymore. The file still present. You did not delete the file. All you did was free up the disk space It's only online once again. As soon as I double click on it Or if I once again go in here and say then poof it gets downloaded again I want to be clear that this feature is only about space most particularly. And the reason that I'm spending time device, it does not prevent What do I mean by that? Well, let's go ahead OneDrive.com. And here are these files online. And if I go take a look at askleo examples, there is the file This is the file that I currently have in Windows File Explorer, but it also, That's the point of OneDrive. I want to be really clear. I'm trying to be very clear about this. This file is marked as And yet if I go over and I could open the file, If I hit delete, the file has been deleted and it's been This device has nothing to do with whether If you delete the file in OneDrive, Those are two separate things. Now let's say I'm going to cheat here, use the recycle bin back, OneDrive is that it has So I've got the file here. What if I actually wanted But I wanted to keep the file. I actually want this file to persist, Well, if you'll notice it's This is how OneDrive works. Everything within OneDrive Whatever. This is all mirrored and copied So move it outside of the OneDrive folder. In other words, let's go ahead and take Right. It's got this old thing. I'm going to go ahead and delete I'm going to go back to my Askleo example. I'm going to right click I'm going to copy it, which is one way of moving a file or I'm going to put it in documents What I've done is I've made a copy of the file in my local documents So you'll see if I look at this Is it's a little bit If I go to c:user\ my username documents, Ask Leo documents. And you'll notice Onedrive is not involved in this path. If I take a look at the OneDrive documents, if I take a look at the example that's a different location that's So I've copied it outside Now, if I go online and I the file disappears from my Examples But if I go to my Vispc Documents folder, it's still there because We moved that file to a different location on my PC that is not managed by OneDrive, machine and still be able The magic here is that everything that exists within the OneDrive Everything that exists outside So when you make a change to OneDrive, if your files are outside of the one But if they're within OneDrive, If you delete a file online within OneDrive, it's going to get deleted Now I'm going to once again go back to my recycle bin and restore that file I want to reiterate the importance I go back to my examples. The file has been restored. It is in fact, cloud only. And if I delete it again, The important thing to realize here is that this feature always keep on this not deleting the file The only thing that feature does is save you disk space while keeping It still takes up space It's only saving you space on your PC on this specific PC I hope this helps. I hope this clarifies. If you've got questions, if it's not Visit the article it's askleo.Com/138874. for your comments and your I'm Leo Notenboomoom, this is askleo.com