(pensive music) 72 kilometers of adventure, the most famous off-road trip in Oman, and maybe the most difficult dirt road in the Middle East. Join the ride above rough cliffs, on spectacular steep roads, along deep canyons, through the famous Wadi Bani Awf in Oman. (dramatic music) (tranquil music) - It's the start of a beautiful and today we're going from Jebel Shams, to one of here in Oman, which is It was hard to leave our on top of Oman's highest but adventure was calling. (upbeat music) We had heard a lot of that we were approaching. Good things and bad things. - Good morning, everyone. I'm so curious about this day. We go to Wadi Bani Awf, and we heard many people saying that it's a pretty but before we go there, we first have to ride to the valley, which will because the off road here (upbeat music) So already yesterday when we rode up here, the road was not exactly crowded, even though Jebel Shams is one of the biggest and most But now it's completely empty here. I guess we started before (upbeat music) We were not bothered at all that this morning we had that we rode up the day before because the gravel part and the asphalt road a curvy Indeed, going down was because it offered the much - It's so funny. Literally every adventure that you want to go to in Oman or ends here at the valley, no matter if Jebel Akhdar or Jebel Shams or Wadi Bani Awf where we are going to now. But every adventure at least and our preparation is that before we go off road. So we need to find some fuel. (tranquil music) - Here is the petrol station and there is even a local motorcyclist. I think he's the first one we Motorcycles are not super popular here and I bet you that he will because men usually approach men first due to the culture here. (tranquil music) - Ready for the next adventure. After filling up our bikes, of the day, which first took us to the small local roads that indeed turned out to be super pretty. - So this starts to look about right. We have to go up the mountains again to find the road we are looking for. And here are the mountains. So it should be right. (upbeat music) - This is definitely right. The sign said Bilad Sayt, 36 kilometers and that's the town that through Wadi Bani Awf. Against our expectations, the first kilometers of through Wadi Bani Awf were still paved and like most roads in Oman, So we continued the road up the mountain until we reached a point of a mountain pass before we were finally hitting dirt roads, and with them descended the But little did we know (pensive music) - So here the dirt road starts. I don't know if you see that on the video but the views are amazing. And so far, the ride has been pretty easy. We will see if that Wadi Bani Awf offers some of the best off-road with beautiful scenery and stunning cliffs The route connects several villages and extends across the Hajar Mountains, separating the regions Al and it indeed has some challenges that we were just finding out about. - Guys, I don't know if you can see this but this road all of a I think I've never been I mean that really is steep I think roads like this at off-road places in Europe. (dramatic music) - Jesus, I'm so scared that the own weight of the motorcycle is just pushing me down. It kind of feels odd. Normally I like going down offroad but it just pushes the whole bike. I don't know, it feels very insecure. I feel like I have literally no control. (dramatic music) F***. This is f****** steep and my wheels are just slipping. I'm braking but it's so steep. You hear that? It's just going down. I mean, the bike just slips, even though my brake is full on. Wow. This is f****** scary. (dramatic music) The path became really steep with really tight bends on tough terrain. Sandy curves and the steepest on a normal road. But the feeling of not having control over the bike turned and after I fixed it, the (dramatic music) - Oh my God, guys. Do you know what just happened? It's embarrassing and ridiculous but I forgot to put on after I stopped with the motorcycle in the beginning of the So the ABS, of course, and always unlocked my So I got the feeling of not having control over the bike. So stupid. Now after I put back on off-road mode, this is becoming fun and so much more easy because I feel like I'm in (lively music) So I hope you guys After stopping or turning off the bike, always make sure that it's when you continue. We came by some small villages and from this point, the ride started to become real fun. The road went along steep so it might not be for you (lively music) - How cool is this? It's like an oasis here but that's why this is a wadi too. There are some times of the year where here probably is quite some water. Maybe even covering this road like Wadi Bani Nakhr that we went to yesterday. So I think that's pretty cool, and that's actually why there (lively music) - So this road is It's very, very steep. I think it's steeper than we're used to, like many roads here. I think I've not really driven roads as steep as here ever before. When we came by the crossroad we decided to skip the little detour and just continue because we of difficult gravel ahead of us, which in the end turned out as a mistake. So if you drive by the sign, we can highly recommend What is very nice is that there is not too many people, even at the most famous roads and places. And I hope this here continues like this because it's really fun and yeah, just fantastic riding now. (lively music) When not traveling on a motorcycle, indeed a four-wheel drive vehicle is a must when exploring Wadi Bani Awf. But you should also be a confident driver and be able to use your car's to ensure your safety and the safety of others along the path. You should especially keep The elevation change from start to end is from 600 meters to 2,000 meters, and in between there are on steep roads with partly limited views, especially if you are traveling in a car. (lively music) - Now we are entering that I think is the most famous one. It's the so-called Snake Canyon. And if you bring more time, you can do very cool adventure stuff here, like jumping from cliffs I could use this because it's quite hot but we don't have a guide, so we don't know how to do it here. (upbeat music) - Behind me you can see and we have only I think 12 until we hit the main road again. So this 72 kilometers passed pretty fast and basically, only a very Wadi Bimah, also known is a proper canoeing adventure for outdoor enthusiasts that you should only attempt with a guide. It involves jumping that you are unable to climb back from and you will be exiting from where you begin with. But as well riding through From here, the road became but not less pretty. (inspirational music) - I can't believe this. I'm somehow really disappointed now. To be honest, I thought would take us the whole day and completely exhausted in the evening - but the off-road section than I expected. (pensive music) - What? Can you see this? And it's not even gravel that I expected to be gravel all the way because the pavement starts here. So sad, I don't even know what to do with the rest of the day. Maybe we should ride back again. Even though the road was paved, the ride from the village Al before we hit the main of Oman, direction Muscat. - So guys, I have to tell you something, my journey through Oman is not over yet but my travel partner needs because he has to get back to work. So we are doing Muscat now together and we will explore the city one day and then I will take off again because I want to see a few more, especially cultural things here in Oman. So the journey will continue but you will have to live with me alone from basically the day after tomorrow. (pensive music) Because our ride through Wadi Bani Awf had been so much shorter than we expected, we decided to stop for and to stop at Nakhal Fort. - So because we felt a little bit tricked because our off-road part was so short, and we are so much more we decided to look at this fort here. I decided to look at this fort here, which we normally would not have done because you all know my travel Nakhal Fort is surrounded by palm trees. The exact date in which is unknown but many believe that it was built in pre-Islamic times, more than 1,500 years ago but it was refurbished Built in the architectural it is unique in that it was built to fit around an irregularly shaped rock with some rock exposures jutting out into the interiors. The fort houses a museum operated by the Ministry of Tourism with exhibits of historic guns. Unfortunately, the fort was so we could only get a - So what do you think - It's another wonderful sightseeing experience for you and I can sit in the shade - But it's very beautiful, no? - Yeah, it's a typical Arabic fort. It's very nice. It looks beautiful. Yeah, I can watch the pictures you took. (dramatic music) (upbeat music) - We are very close to Muscat now and I think it's amazing that there is still so to the capital. I really didn't expect this at all. I'm actually very curious now about the capital of Oman. Muscat, here we come. (lively music) Thank you for traveling If you liked this episode, leave a thumbs up and a comment. For the next episode, we and explore Oman's capital and you will get to know my guide Yusuf who took me to his fishing village and to the most secret and most beautiful places in Muscat. Like always, tune in next Thursday to not miss out on the next episode. (motorbike roaring)