Most games are made by development studios game and triple-A titles can even go into teams consist of at least two developers more However, it's very rare to encounter a bigger by only one person. This is exactly the case with Stardew Valley dialogue and programming were done by Eric In 2011 Eric graduated from the University degree so afterwards he applied at a few places, him the job. At that point he didn't really know what Eric has always been into video games, drawing hadn't really considered combining all his Now that he was looking for a job he decided Eric figured he could get better at programming a job. Growing up he was encouraged by his father was a technical, logical person himself. His mom on the other hand was more artistic from an early age. In high school Eric kept himself busy playing while also making music on the computer. After school, he would work at a pretzel place sketches. "I guess it's all just a lifetime of creating I've always just enjoyed making things, and of skills." He's a huge fan of the farm simulation RPG make a quick little game to get familiar with Moon clone. "I liked that you could have relationships start a family. That was something you couldn't do in most much more personal. That you were living in a world that felt your input." According to Eric however, the series became he frequently searched for a fan-made or indie that satisfied him, which compelled Eric to Initially he was planning on releasing his Sprout Valley, on Xbox Live Indie Games since platform. Eric figured he would work on the project Perhaps a few Harvest Moon fans would enjoy for future job prospects. However, once he started working on the game started seeing more possibilities. He believed it could become a legitimate game Eric didn't have a deliberate plan when his intuition when it came to expanding the He started with creating the player avatar later become the player's farm. After that, Eric added the basic farming mechanics. Before he would add things like crops and to accurately match their behaviors and scarcities He applied this technique to the rest of the 80% done before he would add depth to it and In September 2012 Eric, now 24 of age, publicly see if people would be interested in the concept The announcement was accompanied with the Eric had also set up a website to keep people As mentioned before, he wanted to develop he decided to expand the scope of the project, of his favorite video game series. &quot;The gameplay in Harvest Moon was usually ever brought it all together in a perfect My idea with Stardew Valley was to address as create more 'purpose' with tried-and-true In February 2013, a couple of months after revealed that Stardew Valley would be published that specializes in retro-style games. Eric said that the offer came at just the the game on Steam Early Access. "It seemed like nearly every indie game I wanted my game to stand out from the crowd, of paying for unfinished products. Furthermore, I felt that Early Access was but was not ideal for a game like Stardew The team at Chucklefish helped Eric with creating forum system. In May 2013 Eric announced that Stardew Valley a publisher and Steam's approval, nothing project once it was ready. Yet, it would take an additional three years Steam. Eric initially estimated that the game would 2013 he created a blogpost to let people know target. He explained that although the game was "mostly be finished before he was comfortable releasing He would rather focus on developing a polished The following years Eric would frequently which kept people's interest in the game While developing Stardew Valley was definitely to earn some money to pay the bills. Therefore, he worked part-time as an usher Fortunately, he was able to live together biology graduate student. A perfect situation for someone who's developing During its entire development, the game went Eric's game development skills would greatly to redo some parts of the game several times The character art especially took some time "I put in thousands of hours on pixel art I just persevered and forced myself to learn. You realize the thing that you thought was You realize why and you improve on it. And that's just an endless cycle." All the artwork was done in Paint.NET, a free Windows and all the programming was done in Eric used the audio software called Reason Software, to produce all the games' music Eric was very excited that he was able to He enjoyed the total freedom to implement him to bring a cohesive vision to life. He also didn't mind that he had to cover "I also enjoy all the aspects of making writing...I would get bored doing just one It was very important to Eric that Stardew to a variety of players. "If you want to raise 300 rabbits, you can. If you want to invest in a huge field of crops do that too. The gameplay is flexible and open." Another improvement over the Harvest Moon endless stream of endgame content. He said that most Harvest Moon games end after Stardew Valley in a way so that people can after many in-game years. Besides making the game as open as possible, wanted the game to represent. A feel that was intrinsically tied to his more important to him than expanding gameplay For instance, at one point during development, Stardew Valley allows you to raise farm animals like eggs, milk and so on, but some beta testers and collect their meat. Eric initially added the feature, but he eventually to him. "I didn't want to have that sort of violence. You give the animals names, pet them, and and then you butcher them? It just felt wrong. It didn't jibe with the feeling I was going regret it." While creating the world for Stardew Valley, from the area he grew up in. Therefore, many items in the game are local ferns and chanterelles. "I've lived in the Pacific Northwest my is deeply ingrained in me." Eric has said that he wants the game to be The story for example clearly illustrates of local communities. This is further emphasized by Stardew Valley's identity and throughout the course of the Furthermore, the player is encouraged to interact they can unlock more of their storylines. While for the most part the game has a general storylines can get dark sometimes. "People struggle with personal issues and I think it makes the characters a lot more of people that are sometimes found in games." Eric wrote and rewrote hundreds of lines of take him several months of work. The villagers also have their own individual testing as well. Eric also considered what type of game he He wanted to go in a more zen, slower-paced that encourage more clicking than anything That's the reason why the cooking mechanic energy than regular uncooked products, as gold. Eric wanted to avoid players feeling like to maximize their profits, which would just According to Eric, a game like Stardew Valley a hundred people that's some kind of focus-tested much profit as possible. However, Eric kept his real life identity ConcernedApe whenever he communicated about He later said in an interview that he's "I think for me I've always been kind of I keep to myself. I don't really have that many friends, I don't I'm an introvert. Art is a way to connect with other people. It's a way to communicate and for other people I think everyone wants to feel like they belong way. This is just my way of doing that." His hermit lifestyle and his immense dedication on his relationship with Amber, who would Star Trek together. His busy schedule allowed little room for "When I'm deep into a project that's me feel the best." Not once during development did Eric ask anyone He taught everything he needed to know himself, He's proud of that achievement and didn't someone else credit for a specific part of The huge responsibility of making a game all Eric admitted. "There were times during development that to quit entirely.&quot; However, he never gave up and kept pushing It was both passion and discipline that kept to stay driven when you're doing your own to how far you can go. When Eric didn't feel like working he would once he had an idea that he was really passionate He explained that during those moments he as possible when it was still fresh in his In April 2015 Eric addressed the game's to get their hands on it. &quot;I've been working on Stardew Valley for years However, I'm not willing to do that until a state I'm happy with. It simply could not be released in its current It's not a finished game yet. It's tantalizingly close to being a finished just one guy.&quot; In november 2015 he addressed the release of October trying to finish the singleplayer However, he also spoke about the multiplayer work to be done on that front. People had suggested to release the single later, but Eric mentioned that other developers the game was completely finished. A month later however, Eric had changed his saying it felt wrong to him to postpone the already fully completed. It's always been important to him to get soon as possible. The months leading up to the game's release yet and he almost gave up on the game entirely. "Imagine playing the same game, every day, All day. I was just absolutely sick of it, I was bored. I didn't even have an objective sense of In fact, I thought it was bad." No one else was playing and testing Stardew would try out new builds of the game from feedback due to her lack of video game knowledge. Therefore, Eric was never really sure if the this pressure would build up more and more "I had to prove that I wasn't just crazy, that I was actually gonna follow through on That was really getting to me, psychologically, wasting my time." Luckily, his confidence in the game came back his game. A mutual contact at Chucklefish had introduced them to play Stardew Valley. They helped Eric look for bugs and gave detailed Unfortunately, the day before release, disaster Eric found a game-breaking bug and with only needed to fix it fast. "I stayed up very late in a panic to fix I was in a sort of daze the whole time. It was very stressful but also exhilarating." The singleplayer version of the game was finally It first launched on Steam and was later ported PlayStation Vita, iOS and Android. In 2019, the game was even added to Tesla in every Tesla car. Stardew Valley was very well received by both with many reviewers saying that the farming gaming experience. As of January 2020, Stardew Valley has sold platforms, another testament to its overwhelming Eric was also named one of the top ten developers "He ended up single-handedly developing that had mostly been dominated by Harvest Furthermore, Forbes also named Eric one of Development didn't slow down after its release He said that during the four years leading work ten hours a day, seven days a week on After the release his average work day would The first few weeks were especially busy for patches as fast as he possibly could, since online was having problems with the game. After the first major update for Stardew Valley, so in August of 2017 he went on a vacation They all went on a road trip where they visited Over the years, Stardew Valley generated a despite Eric being an introvert, he would troubleshoot problems with the game or just &quot;My strategy with the community is simple: I think that, as an indie developer, you should I try to act online like I do in real life: and straightforward as possible.&quot; When asked why Stardew Valley became such something to do with indie games in general. He further explained that the special thing connection between the creator and the audience. Eric noted that it's kind of rare that a entirely by one person, which makes it even people are looking for in an indie game. "It's not some faceless corporation that tested experience. It's this raw connection between the creator I think maybe people are ready for that sort After releasing Stardew Valley, Eric got the Moon series Yasuhiro Wada during an interview, come true. He even left the interview with a signed copy Wada spoke very highly of Stardew Valley saying Moon, because of the freedom you're given. Looking back, Eric isn't exactly sure how Stardew Valley all on his own. &quot;I'm not sure if there was any technique to I did always have a ridiculous amount of faith that I was still a nobody and the only way It does help if you can absolutely convince It's not even an ego thing--it's just a way you.&quot; The 4 player co-op multiplayer portion was thanks to the help of Chucklefish, who took the online multiplayer. This way Eric was free to focus on creating added to the game as free updates and included new crops, new buildings, new relationship With a new update on the horizon, it seems Valley. However, he said he's already got ideas after he's done with Stardew Valley. Luckily for fans, Eric is open to the idea the same universe as his farming simulator. Whatever the case may be, Eric Barone has "I want to create a collection of games deathbed I can look back and see that I created joy."