- Well, I don't mind pineapple I think anything that (upbeat music) It's going very well. He seems a very happy, easy-going, cheeky, fun loving 10 year old. So yeah, I think it's going well. I think I keep my mental strength. I have just a way of looking and I just look at how far And I think the strength comes from that journey if you will, the seven years of going and everything associated with So I always go back to that point and think, it will And you know, the only way now is up, and I always maintain No, I couldn't grow a And i can't grow a beard now. All I get is like this And it just looks like I'm But then again, trying to Trying to get the razors in all sorts of positions and your chin without Yes so do I need to shave? It's a very, very tentative I've just about got it now, but it's taken a long time to be able to shave that stubble off. I don't think I do I still believe that I'm only as strong as the people that I'm surrounded by. You know, I get motivation, strength, whatever it may be from Lucy, Sam, my family, my friends 100%, very happy. Pre-lockdown, a typical day would be rushing to get out of bed, get changed. Then it would be a car journey somewhere to London and probably for research with universities, Zoom with potential clients, There is no real typical day so to speak. Obviously with COVID and with the lockdown it's been Zoom call after But hopefully now we're then it'll be back on the road with the public and be social and yeah, just try and drive some change. My favorite beer is Guinness. I love it, but I loved it a to the point that I was probably drinking about a barrel a week, And I don't drink so much of it now, I've kind of moved on to wine since then. But yeah, if it's a beer thing, Predominantly, my motivation Right at the beginning, emailed me and said, you there'll be something in And it was Man's Search for Meaning, And the quote that I found in the book that resonated with me the most was, &quot;Once you work out the why And I knew then that and the how was quadruple amputation so we've never looked back from there. I think the biggest obstacle was how I was gonna reinvent How was I gonna be a dad who didn't have arms, didn't have legs? You know, how was I gonna And I think how I became that just putting in the time, as I could be, trying to be whether it was trying to build Lego with a prosthetic that I Whether it was trying to which I'm not very good at, how I was gonna teach which we managed in the end, Yeah, it was just a Well, I don't mind pineapple I think anything that But in my mind, pineapple should really be baked in an oven, with some seeds stuffed in it. That's the best place for pineapple. So before I fell ill, I wasn't a kayaker. I wasn't a skydiver, I didn't do anything The only sport I loved was golf, loved it. And I still do, the that I'm missing legs and arms, which for playing golf is pretty bad. But we are working with and they're gonna build me And what we think we're stitch prosthesis into a cycling jacket. And then we're gonna design attachments that are attached to a golf club. And then I'm gonna stand on the back of my off-road wheelchair. And I'm gonna be able over into a golfing position. And I used to play right-handed but because I've only got one elbow joint, I'm gonna now teach myself So that is like the ultimate for me, to be able to go to a driving and hit shots together After the documentary was made, we still weren't really too sure about how life was gonna map out. And I was thinking, well, and better year on year, but yeah, it's been pretty difficult to maintain it. And it's just, you know, It's the effort that we enjoy. Yeah, it's been an evolution I suppose, over the last five years, to the point now that Honestly, I don't know, It's not bravery being in hospital and being operated on That's just survival. You know, you just fight And I guess the bravery was leaving hospital and and learning to live a life again. But awesome support is you know, I can't reiterate it enough just how important those So if I am brave at all, Well it's a bit of both, really. Most of the time if I but then what happens because that gives me Phantom limb pain. So all of a sudden I'm but when I wake up, I can I have a sensation that my arms and it's the weirdest thing. Phantom limb pain is the weirdest thing but it's also incredibly painful. I've woken up dreaming my big toe of my right leg. So I've got up, I've sat up in bed and I've reached my big toe and then give thinking, well, I haven't got a big toe. And then I tell myself off again because I haven't got a but your mind is just So yeah, I mean the dreaming Mongolia, becoming the to hand cycle, just on solar energy around, well, 600K Gobi Desert. I'd like to be able to play golf again. I'd like to learn to drive, I wanna learn to ski because my best mate is an avid skier and I'd love to be able They'd just be awesome. I wanna row across the Atlantic. I wanna raise two and a half million quid for a hospital in Southampton, which would involve crossing on a variety of different I wanna highlight what's what you can play with. I would like to do some with a version of the which I think would just be phenomenal. Other than that, just making sure they're okay, seeing and watching them a really cool life would Everyone that is involved in my life and has been involved in my they motivate me and it but depending on what I'm doing, it could be my plastic surgeon. It certainly is Lucy and Sam, Lucy usually by shouting at me. Sam being a bit more supportive. The messages that I Every day I start buoyant and happy and I'm wanting to go out and just be the best version of myself And I do, I love what I do. And at the end of each day, I can't wait to get to the next day