In Seychelles, postcards are experienced every a hundred islands is synonymous with the Here nature reigns supreme with its The Seychelles has become a model formidable palette of flavors and sensations. dazzling light of the Indian Ocean lies a people else will the traveler feel so this archipelago blessed by the gods. The Seychelles are located in The main and most populated islands are Among them, Praslin has made earthly paradise: the coves, these white sand beaches, in turquoise and crystal clear water. In the north of the island, Anse Lazio is the best known, photographers from all over the world have largely Curieuse Island can be discovered, with its long bays beach on the island, Anse Volbert, which stretches for 2 only 12 long! You have to be observant to find colonial style, with its wooden constructions which been preserved and often belongs to the past. The granite islands are located in the center of the which cushions large offshore swells and beaches. Heading further south, we arrive at precedence over tourist activities. Paul and his friends have a picnic on the beach. It's 25deg water. Two superb fish are grilling and a bourgeois bar. The atmosphere is friendly, everyone "We are not jaded, we are beach, swimming, going octopus fishing, together" Paul works as a chef at the "Coco based on zourite, this local octopus that we "Today I am going to prepare a zourite curry onions with already cut zourites, I add I put cinnamon leaves and Ste Anne always welcomes a lot of people As in many islands around the world, of the inhabitants. The population is 82% Catholic, very religious and Sunday mass is an We readily mix animist elements and well with the Christian faith. Apart from its beaches, Praslin is famous for . With its numerous is a true botanical treasure. The most curious and best known of these trees grows. The male palms, with their long pollinate the smaller female spikes. After butt-shaped coconuts fall to the ground. The base of the coconut trees is placed on a sort of rotates in the wind. After several years and a little polishing, for magnificent boat trips. Leaving Praslin, 6 km further north, by its South African owner above all into a first-rate ecological paradise. which is deserted. Managed by the NGO Nature turtles who come to lay their eggs there. Cousine is one of those corners of paradise The hotel has only 4 luxury villas, with being dedicated to bird conservation. >> be built. A compromise which reduces financing the preservation of nature and in birds and turtles. There are around 300,000 birds on the island, lay and brood, no less than We find in particular 5 species endemic to Seychelles warbler. If we gain a little height, we discover complete tranquility away from predators. The few our attention to them. Having only 4 villas on the island limits Thus, the real masters of the place are the of terns. These birds always live in pairs man has never attacked them. Daze, the island manager, is a worrying phenomenon. but here on the island we can see that there are fewer see that seabirds are suffering a lot far to find food, become exhausted First of all, the land turtles, Then, the sea turtles which come to lay their eggs on the scientists who are increasing their the species which has long been threatened. Biologists have studied very of turtles but they are optimistic, the its nesting place is marked with a number in order to and possibly protect them from dangers. Several endemic species are beginning to return which was on the verge of extinction. There are the Tropic bird, or Yellow-billed Phaeton, which same place. We even had the incredible chance , which according to Daze is extremely "Personally this is the first time that laying an egg, it is something female will stay there a good time to watch back and forth to the ocean" Now it's time to go to Mahe, the and its capital Victoria has only 0 inhabitants. The heart of activity in the seat of the main shops and activities. to multiple influences: first known to between Africa and Asia before being colonized until at independence in 1976. The center is occupied by several that is the Seychelles. The capital brings together the Domus, built by the Capuchin order, the gods of security and prosperity. Its frequented by the Comorian community. The Victoria market is like Producers come from all over the island to offer their privileged place for meetings and exchange. We find the majority of vegetables and jackfruit, or even cassava and cambare. The fishmongers' corner is often the the beautiful piece, like the grand bourgeois with the scalers come into action. We also buy spices and peppers, local cuisine recipes. In Victoria, old houses that are still well to the colonial era and are made of wood. Kenwyn store. The Kazanana has been restored. Today it is a houses the works of the painter Georges Camille. Very rare where we find the tranquility and serenity stormed every time you leave school. The students in this peaceful village. Continuing our route, we arrive at some days the busiest. It is one everyone comes to swim and where many seabeds and a variety of fish Coral reefs are numerous and some in the world. To really feel the heartbeat of these villages, at the entrance to Beau Vallon, a character. this shop not only to buy bread, here it is a shop where both between buyers and merchants. people are talk a lot" Above Sans Souci, we approach the top west coast. Some sections of wall recall an Catholic mission here housed a school for Above, often surrounded by clouds, stands stands out the west coast, the Morne Blanc tea plantation is in 1962 from Kenya by an Englishman, and today which are flavored with vanilla. Further down, facing Therese and Conception Islands, the a crossing on the coral flat. Going around the imposing granite blocks, we characteristics of a dream bay, whose of a hotel. Further south, less known but just its assets with the rising tide which of Saint Francis is home to children's games. On the beach, fishermen patiently recover They constitute, with tuna, the arrive at the home of Michael Adams, son of a For a quarter of a century, he has been the who also paints, runs her shop and by the lush vegetation that surrounds her. ...yes he has an obsession at the moment they grow so fast, and he Heather takes us to a corner of his "So this is a special place? all these bamboos, we have been here since 1972, were born here, and also our grandson. paint a lot of bamboo, if you take you can see that it is still very fresh, days ago it was still very small, they grow bamboos are indeed his favorite theme. Continuing our route towards the south, become more and more sparse and we The road ends at Police Point, the former haunt of pirates or smugglers. peaceful beaches. We are now on the east coast, ready the king's gardens house an old designed in 1789 and then established at Anse Royale. Tropical flowers have 25-hectare estate. The most subtle peppers rub shoulders with with dazzling colors. The garden also conceals such as nutmeg which, in its the children enjoy a day bathed in not far from Anse aux Pins, here is another Pres, a mansion from 1870, restored safeguarding and keeping heritage intact. charm of yesteryear. Further away in the park, several huts The La Marine workshop has developed a technique faithful reproduction of old rigging. For more realism, the ropes are coated with work for a boat of this type. The other part of the workshop is devoted to . That's Gabisilia, it's the local wood, like the hull here and that's yellow wood few kilometers away, in the area of the completely reconstructed 18th century colonial house. A original appearance has been preserved, even if it has with small yellow fruits: bilembis. The remains that we discover are those of the storage of tobacco and bananas, coconut oil forgotten orphan from its native Africa. The garden is also home to used by the local population. The other part of the estate is devoted sugar cane fields are scattered across the local production, much lower the cane juice the old-fashioned way on a machine from the we obtain 800 liters of Vessou. David carries out his quality control on the Vessou. we have in the cane juice, this will allow me add and how much alcohol 800 liters of Vessou will give, after of the specialist will once again allow with citrus or vanilla. We are back in Victoria. which focuses on all aspects of parade through the streets of Victoria with the If the official languages are English used. The parade ends in the city center at the foot all the influences coming from sailors, the construction of the Seychellois Creole identity. Another party mobilizes a good part on the beach of Beau Vallon. For 20 years regattas and concerts, the allow you to isolate yourself from the hustle and bustle in just a short distance. Located between Ile aux Cerf and Ile Sainte has lush vegetation surrounded by a Robinson Crusoe's island with a beach where only curious variety of "capsule" turtles can be found there. it is occupied by Brendon Grimshaw, an Englishman and lives among the tombs of pirates. A he transformed his island into a journey of discovery rest on this island. From Mahe, we can often only see a the 3rd island in the archipelago in terms of surface area. However, it does but to Etienne de Silhouette, a Without roads or cars, this are spread over 5 villages. To this must be added the to its reputation. With its 63 million years, Silhouette is a of Mahe. The remains of a volcano which rose to an a time when a cataclysm caused the dinosaurs. From 1860 to 1960, the island was the property of planter and breeder. The recently established hotel Dauban family. The primary forest that surrounds it is even islands of the granite group, because Silhouette is This dense vegetation extends to the altitude of 740m. In the 1960s the government pigs and chickens which could have Today, the village is repopulating while palm kernels, vacoas and other jackfruits endemic species. But the true character of the island is where its eventful geological history has left then becomes darker. At the top, in the cemetery facing the sea, horizon. It is on this cape that the volcanic origin of the island is most evident, with this of La Digue is one of the 3 major granite islands at 5 km long, it was until for a few tourists and bicycles remain the only serves half of the island. The story goes that the first Prisoners deported from Bourbon Island, they took them to India and settled there. mainly from tourism. Even the fishmonger makes his rounds by 18th century plantation, part of which There is also a " to extract coconut oil. dry the nuts is that if we put we get milk and not oil, first dry" The walnut feeds a rather curious mill, but Each bucket of oil requires 35 kg milling. An old residence recalls the style of the mansions of its past is more praised as a "cinema set". A vanilla plantation borders the entire estate. have reached more maturity, they will be desserts, tea or rum. Cinnamon bark also requires from the tree. It will then be ground. red cinnamon and white cinnamon. The beach of Anse Source d'Argent loves the lagoon dotted with rocks which make it a . Behind these imposing masses there contributed to the notoriety of La Digue. Leaving the Estate to return read the history of the island on a few tombs. It Mellon family which dates from the 1800s. Of all the islands of the archipelago it is La Digue granite blocks which are present on all the beaches. With Praslin as its opposite, La Digue has not been the old wooden huts are very rare built on stilts, generally entirely in housing with tin roofs. On the south-east coast, the beaches towards Grande Anse wider and lined with casuarina trees. 8 km north of Praslin, Aride Island is less natural heritage of Seychelles. Only a few are there to keep the birds company. In some years, specialists estimate that a of egg-laying. Around twenty marine and rare such as the singing magpie or the blue pigeon. The terns are the most numerous and enjoy monitoring and monitoring. The island is also not nesting period, a period which also corresponds to the season difficult and uncertain. Introduced in 1756, coconut groves botanical wealth of the island is much greater than It is only on Aride that we find also said that Aride has the highest density Today it is the heirs of this unique space where towards the north a coral plateau appears, it is this is obvious, and the pilot must be at sea level. The island has belonged to the Mason family for 15 years its owners have had the both in terms of the vegetation under threat. After the 2004 Tsunami that struck of the island were seriously damaged. El Nino phenomenon which modifies current movements. Foundation. He is responsible for "We lose a lot of sand, this sand goes we recover sand, but it will not be which tries to function as much as possible in to a farm and crops which provide a environmental footprint is justified in terms and his team spent several months eradicating of endemic birds. Since then, boats have have been checked. Water which is a sensitive issue comes from an rainwater harvesting tanks. On Denis Island birds are kings, but to place, a martin eradication program This sparrow native to Asia had a chicks. If the fantasy of Westerners is to dream not part of the primary vegetation of these were reduced to a reasonable surface area the reintroduction of the Widow of the Digue which is "Since we began to remove endemic birds are experiencing good new birds arriving, and following the population is slowly increasing." An emblematic character of the island, Toby has been walking than 110 years. These turtles are herbivores and are The Seychelles turtles are the Galapagos. Human activity has been limited to 10% of return to its original form. The village is home to all those who work on or ecological rehabilitation. The lighthouse was built in 1910 to prevent Australia from running aground on the reefs. still evolving. Raising not only supplies the restaurant production is substantial. Some weeks, other islands. On the other side of the farm, the pigs coconut which gives It is undoubtedly one of the only where the animals are pampered in this way. A few head of cattle provide there are on the one hand all the vegetables and and on the other hand endemic plants which as they were in the past. It is here that, to our great regret, whose mythical beauty is enhanced by travelers who have succeeded one another over the centuries,