Something strange is happening in the skies. were just printing money. Southwest, for example, in operating profit. JetBlue, also 20, while are monumental profit margins for any industry, buoyed by rock-bottom fuel prices, the low-cost Delta's operating margin peaked at only 19.6%, was asking: how was it that the airlines charging But today, eight years on, the incumbent and their low-cost counterparts are fighting operating margins between 5.6% and -11.2%, while 10.9%--far closer to their 2015 or 2016 peaks. of course, the most dramatic collapse in air due to the COVID pandemic, but finding a cause for Passenger volumes, at least in the US, have fully and have every likelihood of doing so again in just like any airline, they recovered, and then once again, whereas their legacy counterparts further through today. So something strange is yet the budget airline business model in the US is But the airlines have to have a reason, at companies, so the management team must paint money like they once did, and more importantly, for example, says "the competitive environment in many of the markets we serve." That's Now, anecdotally, Spirit's narrative of oversupply recovery has been notably uneven between the and leisure. Whereas more people are flying increasingly digitized businesses are now less meetings or conferences and the number of people levels. Considering overall demand at records, so the legacy airlines that traditionally were subtly recalibrated their networks to which is almost entirely a vacation destination, represents about a 10% jump compared to pre-COVID a major business market, still saw slightly But at least in the case of Spirit, the claim of competition as the primary Spirit's load factors are down--whereas 84.7% today. That is partially the effect you'd expect into a market--there would be more overall seats passenger counts are not a fixed total--they vary depending on how much it costs. So therefore, also lead to lower revenue since airlines would seems fine. In 2015 Spirit earned 10.08 cents slightly to 9.63 after a high-water-mark of 10.44 it just is not meaningful enough to explain But there's another line in their reports that's cost per available seat-mile, or how much seat, per mile basis. Between 2015 and 2021, with some marginal upward growth. But between 2021 on Spirit exploded 45% higher to 11.67 cents. technical, industry term for this grouping of refers not to the fares the public pays, but operating their flights. This often translates to a low-cost carrier loses their low operating has a business model. So what happened? pretty simple--fuel prices went up. In fact, they fuel from their operating cost, their cost per between 2021 and 2022. It's a similar story for flat. But not all airlines are in the same boat. fuel still went up 17% between those two years. while fuel cost increases might be a major carrier model in the US, it's far from everything. beyond the complaints of rising fuel prices, key cause: irregular operations. Essentially: on-time in the US, and when you can't operate operate a low-cost carrier business model. flying their aircraft around or even upward of 12 before dawn until well into the evening, and possible ground time in between each flight. But reason to operate flights, Spirit still can't get levels--it's peaked at just 10.8 hours in 2023. to is a little of everything. Severe weather in 2000 an average of just one category four or five is up to over two. Spirit, and most US low-cost routes to or from places like Florida--home to the but also the geography that hurricanes and other severe weather more frequently more slack in the schedule to keep it on track. air traffic controllers--since each individual is at a given time, this creates delays as planes capacity. And this shortage has hit particularly again been disproportionately felt by Spirit And the bad luck doesn't stop there. You see, composed of A320 NEOs specifically powered by extremely advanced and efficient engine, which is but their manufacturer identified a potential engines that could cause cracking in the turbine. inspections on these engines which initially and since then has kept an above-average number compared to typical operations. While relies most on this engine type, and therefore is JetBlue and Frontier also use the PW1100G and So with this combination of issues, airlines operations on-time. Even with lower utilization, over the past few years compared to pre-pandemic, for canceled flights, costs of booking hotels frustrated passengers avoiding flying the airline less money by flying aircraft less, they also These US low-cost carriers are all in an to ensure their survival. And they each have some for example, is making some fairly drastic changes rather uniquely for a low-cost carrier, they've on narrow-body aircraft configured with a huge is going decently--reviewers are lauding its they're expanding to more and more destinations. routes as year-round, and had essentially the despite transatlantic demand in the winter transatlantic airline scales down service in the JetBlue opted to start cutting certain routes down aircraft to domestic routes--in particular, a few York to Vancouver and New York to San Juan route. trend is that leisure travelers are now opting to before--essentially, more people are willing carriers are in a tough position where they're but while JetBlue still has most of its aircraft this sub-fleet of aircraft configured with be better used on domestic routes in the winter this network recalibration, they've massively This also seems smart. Puerto Rico is, of course, has a hub there and so they only fly to San Juan for bringing mainland tourists to Puerto Rico, living there. So JetBlue is increasingly turning to destinations in the mainland US, but also to Columbia--the places Spanish-speaking Frontier is making some even more dramatic budget airline business model, at least from a 2024, they announced they were fundamentally they charge for seat assignments and carry ons airline, they'd now primarily sell bundled From a passenger perspective, they're now far more subtly changing how things work behind-the-scenes. complex with random routes all across the country, on long, winding journeys spanning across and crew might fly from Salt Lake City to San and since none of those destinations were one delay on that sequence of journeys would lead any easy opportunity to swap an aircraft or crew though, the airline has been opening new hubs--they flights don't go through one of them. That means flights just operate as an out-and-back from proportion of flights hitting a hub mean there prevent it from cascading onward to the following the airline to improve its all important aircraft Not all low-cost carriers have yet instituted such they'll need to: the vultures are circling. niche between legacy business airlines and ultra squeeze as the rest of the cheap leisure the company announced a net loss of $231 million. without announcing a loss prior to the pandemic, even CEO Bob Jordan was willing to concede. to 2024 had little to do with what Southwest had the reputational damage done by the prior year's a week of disruption over the peak Christmas Boeing's quality control of the 737-MAX. plan--that Southwest would change. First, it'd Houston, and Syracuse, while also reducing relatively minor airports in Bellingham, Cozumel, had entirely entirely dropped service to specific would slow hiring to cull about 2,000 employees how the company seats and boards--potentially offer perks for an upcharge. And these changes had made in the month of March that actually manageable crisis. They flew less midweek, they ran fewer flights outside peak hours of the day. June, Elliott Investment management bought and with roughly an 11% claim to its equity, they shockwaves, because not only is Elliott massive, it's frightening, as Forbes called Paul most feared Activist investor. To incumbent investor is a bit of a euphemism. Usually significant minority share and begins work to the company to change. Once they have a foot or stakeholders to adopt their strategy, approaches to fundamentally restructuring company Southwest had now been boarded by Elliott, a While limited on airline experience, Elliott is high-profile companies it enters, from Barnes even the Italian soccer club AC Milan. And like before, the activist investor started its tenure In a slide deck published to its website that Elliott pulled a quite specific quote by Herb outlined its way forward: change up the board, Bob Jordan announced he wouldn't step down under after the company filed an 8-K form with the seat mile, or RASM, was now expected to drop 4 earlier. Announcing an even steeper decline in furthered Elliott's case for radical change. and it's unclear whether Elliot will be successful coming for Southwest, and low cost carriers like Much has been made of Elliott's investment into focus on short-term gains may harm the company's out that Elliott may fundamentally misunderstand decades. But what all can seemingly agree on is long. And in a current environment so unfriendly for those in C-suite positions, it's time There is a genuine question to be asked as model is viable long-term in the US. It thrives in meaning people don't tend to travel as physically vast--cities are far, far apart--and the fundamental find ways to optimize and reduce operating costs this by minimizing time on the ground, flying to packing in seats more densely, but what they can't costs, and so Spirit is paying just about as much LA. But with such a long, five-hour flight, that overall costs, meaning the other costs, that they today, in 2024, there's a perfect storm of outside factors making it harder for low-cost low-cost carriers just can't be low-cost in the As you can tell so well by this video, a ton of big sets of numbers and analyzing what they tell skill is tremendously useful in day to day life what's likely to happen in the future through the works in a super-practical sense, our sponsor, airline data and turned it into a course that science. You'll analyze this data-set in airline is the least likely to have a delay due passengers have gotten since the pandemic. courses. They have four data-analysis courses taught through straightforward explanations, then they bring these principles together you start to understand the broad subject. And for all sorts of STEM-related subjects--calculus, all sorts of subjects that you probably think are through Brilliant.org. I'd really recommend you just genuinely loves learning, because they make the ability to grasp these challenging subjects. their courses into short chunks that you can both on your computer and on mobile devices can see for yourself since you can try everything days. Just visit Brilliant.org/Wendover and you'll