[narrator] Hungary begins. A country like no other in Europe, influenced by the rhythms of its rivers. Hungary's inhabitants have learnt to cope with alternating floods and droughts. This is an ancient cultural landscape where wildlife still finds refuge. Winter in the Puszta, the heart of the Great Plains of Hungary. Herdsmen cook [men chatting] This idyllic picture Young men still choose the hard life of herding the shaggy gray cattle. These robust animals can withstand of the open plains all year round. Herdsmen choose their dogs carefully and train them for several months. They make a perfect team. Only the bravest dogs [dogs barking] [cattle mooing] [dog barking] The wintering geese show that But what was water is at present ice. A young white-tailed eagle A sheep carcass makes a good breakfast, but first at the feast are the magpies. [magpies nattering] A greedy hooded crow, however, Such a tasty meal a common buzzard. There should be enough for everyone, but some just can't bear to share. The crow shows its frustration. [birds cawing] [bird coos] In winter, carrion is sometimes the only food the birds can find. Suddenly, another buzzard arrives. [birds cawing] Eagles are cautious by nature. The young white-tailed eagle More and more predators gather. A red fox passes by, but the eagle wants a closer look. It hasn't made up its mind yet and the crow is pushing its luck. But the presence of the king of the birds is, in the end, just too stressful. The Puszta lies in a broad plain Further west, runs the River Danube. Along its banks, alternate with populated areas. [children shouting] The frozen channels and lakes A young otter is surprised Hungary is densely populated and the wildlife often has to share [children yelling] Otters are common in Hungary They maintain several dens The young otter a safe distance from the noisy company. The den usually has an underwater exit leading to one of channels Due to the ice, the fish are now Help arrives from an unexpected quarter. But the fisherman isn't interested or the kingfisher. The fisherman is looking after He makes a large hole in the ice to let poisonous gases out and oxygen in. He knows that fish are wintering Catfish. These otherwise solitary animals gather in groups during winter They don't hibernate but remain active They stay in the safety of the pack and jockey for position which can cause serious wounds. The hole in the ice attracts some ravens. They're always up for some fun. An old white-tailed eagle Landing on ice is a tricky business, but the eagle has spotted something This bunch of dried grass But no, it's not good enough after all. The eagle carries on looking An eagle's nest, or eyrie, can be up to two meters wide. The sedge will act as insulation In the 1970s, white-tailed eagles were close to extinction, but today about 200 pairs They start preparing This old couple have been together Winter is a hard time for red deer. They're waiting for spring. [clanging] And they're not the only ones. At the end of winter, men wearing bizarre masks and costumes appear in the flood plain forests of Southern Hungary, the Busho. Five centuries ago, to escape from the Turkish army. Legend has it and made loud noises. The Turks thought they were being attacked by demons and took flight. [crowd cheering] Every year, the people of Mohacs, the town where all this happened, Today, At the end of their walk, the Busho come together [crowd chattering] Finally, the thaw begins. From the mountains that surround Hungary millions of creeks run down The silent floodplain forest undergoes a miraculous transformation. The dozen local species of frog and toad take on their mating colors, accompanied by a loud serenade. [frogs croaking] The spring snowflakes are well adapted to the temporary water coverage. [frogs croaking] The alpine squill, too, [eagle caws] The female white-tailed eagle She needs a break from brooding. [eagle calls] Despite being together for 12 years, the pair greet each other [eagle calls] The male takes over. The female now can stretch her wings and take care of other important business. The male, meanwhile, which are vulnerable to bad weather But these tiny eaglets and are thus safe. [eagle calls] The Balaton, Central Europe's biggest lake, The first sailors are out, but they have no idea Asp, a species of carp. When the water temperature reaches 10degC, they swim up the River Zala [bird tweeting] The Zala runs through one of the most extensive areas of reeds in Europe, The asps migrate to their spawning place. First, the smaller males appear in groups, attracting eagles from afar. But the half meter-long fish The fish are close to their destination, but first they face some rapids. More and more birds arrive but not drawn by the asps. Just like salmon, asps can jump rapids. The otter is just curious. The swan is searching But as yet there is only a little caviar The male asps reach the spawning place. Each chooses and defends its territory until the females arrive. In the heat of the fight, [duck quacks] A few eggs are already The brown bullhead's favorite delicacy. And just what the egrets They're here to catch the fish that come to feed on the asp eggs. As the day comes to an end, Each night, several hundred asps come together here, with one female to ten males. As the eggs are released, the males fight to fertilize them The males try to attract with a vibrating dance. An eel comes along to feed on the eggs. It had better be quick, the asp run only lasts a week. Today, most of the Hungarian wetlands and replaced by croplands. But spring still sees the return an iconic bird for Hungarians. [storks croaking] Not all the wetlands have been lost. Hungary has well-preserved The Gemenc forest, along the Danube River In April, the woods are still underwater, creating a wildlife paradise. Red deer are a common sight in Gemenc. The water offers shelter but also plenty of fresh food. European pond turtles race each other for the best spots for sunbathing. But getting there isn't easy. The marsh frog has attracted the attention But there are witnesses everywhere. A larger predator is also on the prowl. With an estimated 10,000 animals, Hungary has one of the largest populations of common otters in Europe. When the otter starts hunting, not wanting to be on the menu, move off. Once spotted, the frog has no chance. Otters feed mainly on fish, but there's no doubt, Finally, even the turtle has made it to its sunny vantage point. In a few weeks, the red deer hinds somewhere in the depths of the forest. Hungary still has a great number In the south, the flood area can extend up to ten kilometers wide A watery paradise for the catfish, one of the biggest freshwater fishes For the fisherman, it's harvest time. Down below, It clears the willow root and then inspects its handiwork. Now a female can come. The fisherman checks the traps He learnt his trade from his father Bream, pike and carp The old catfish has always been careful Eventually, a female shows up. The love between catfish Blows from the male to her flank encourage the female to spawn, with success. The male will now guard the eggs till the young are ready to hatch in three days' time. In May, the bee-eaters return from their winter quarters in Africa. They dig nests in the sandy wall that towers over a tributary The warm days are perfect for bathing. Along the river, A dragonfly is a welcome meal. The indigestible bits are simply spat out. [birds chirping] It's the mating season and presenting a gift to a female Spring has now well and truly arrived. At the top of the oak tree, the eagle chicks And they're getting hungry. [chicks cawing] The male is out hunting and the whole family Will he catch anything? Careless carp often feed A fatal error. The chicks can't wait. White-tailed eagles have adapted well and are flexible regarding their food. But the adults have to mince the fish Carefully, the male feeds his young and takes a little bite for himself. The eagle family has food in abundance so it's easy to raise two chicks a year. Late spring, and there is still water on the Great Hungarian Plains The common pochards but the pairs of graylag goose are already proudly showing their offspring. The chicks are closely watched over [geese garbling] A white-winged tern brings a present to its chosen mate. These rare birds nest on floating islands in the wetlands of the Puszta. The Hungarian gray cattle but it takes time for the soil [cattle mooing] [cattle mooing] Fresh grass is sprouting everywhere, but it's still thin [cattle mooing] They have to cross dozens of channels on the flooded Puszta The herdsman knows [cattle mooing] Cows try to stay with their young as the little ones Finally, they make it across. 40 years ago, this ancient breed of cattle was almost extinct, with only 160 animals left. Now, thanks to careful husbandry, 6,000 of them graze in Hungary. The Tisza River meanders Its shores are home to the biggest colony with 4,000 nesting birds. Burrow after burrow for over a kilometer. The chicks leave the nest at the same time as a spectacular phenomenon called the blooming of the Tisza, the flight of the mayflies. Mayflies spend three years in the mud before coming to the surface Soon the females are surrounded by males. Perfect timing for the sand martins, the insects are a great start to life. Others also profit The entire spectacle lasts one hour. After mating, the mayflies die. The females have laid their eggs from where they will sink into the mud The feast is over. For the white-tailed eagle, too, a good day comes to an end. A June morning The eagle chicks are already quite big. The adults bring food only twice a day. But the female no longer bothers She leaves. It's the chicks which will now decide and sibling rivalry is inevitable. [eagle caws] Until recently, Now after the death due to pesticide use and hunting, the Hungarian eagles are recovering. In a few days, It's time to practice. [cattle bell drums] Hungarian heat. On the Great Plains, shade is scarce. The white stork shelters its young In the lakes and rivers, humans and wildlife alike Pigmy cormorants like bathing Despite the heat, In the forests, the changes are dramatic. Water levels have dropped drastically leaving countless ponds where millions of fish are now trapped. The black stork hunts together In such an abundance of food, rivalries don't matter. Such a feast doesn't go unnoticed Otters need to eat These members of the marten family This one traveled maybe 20km As soon as a fish is caught, it's off to the safety Soon, the fish have to face their destiny. But, the very last moment, salvation arrives. Clouds bring rain to the thirsty land. The water fills up the dried riverbeds in the Gemenc forest. It keeps coming and coming, with no sign of stopping. An exodus begins. The ants hurry to rescue their eggs, their only hope of a future. Within hours, The game is agitated. Wild boar and red deer are good swimmers, but there is no dry land left. In Gemenc, the water level can rise by eight meters in a couple of days. Save on higher ground, the deer calves have stay where they are plagued by mosquitoes. One false step Once again, Many animals perish in the torrents. Others make the most of it. Otters rarely seek each other's company, but during the mating season They're not bothered by the fact that their chosen place is man-made, an open flood-gate. The fisherman now has to paddle The dykes were built in the 19th century, but some land owners For this reason, the dykes are allowing the Danube to roam free The fisherman's come to check which, like the neighboring houses, The two eagle chicks have left the nest. After three months together, One of them leaves the alluvial forest. Who knows where in Hungary Its brother stays. It spots a family of mallards. The chicks look like easy pickings. The eagles technique All the same the mother duck still Next time, [bird croaking] The foggy breeze [stag roars] The flood goes again [stag roaring] The time has come for the red deer to rut. [stag roaring] In the reeds, a golden jackal is startled by the bull's bellowing. A sandy beach in the Gemenc forest is the perfect place for combat. A young bull challenges the lead stag. The hinds meanwhile Dancing red deer, filmed for the first time. The fisherman is proud to continue the traditions of his ancestors. It's been a good year, two floods helped The young catfish are seeking out places in which to shelter 200km to the east, in the middle of the Great Plains, the corn harvest has begun. Leftover seeds are picked up by cranes. The birds haven't nested in Hungary but they still stop here on their way For the chicks, The herdsman shares his lonely territory with the noisy guests for several weeks. On an autumn day, there can be up to 100,000 cranes on the Puszta. [cranes cawing] [cranes cawing] The cranes stay Every evening, In autumn, the big fishing lakes are emptied of water and fish. The perfect place for cranes A young eagle passes by, possibly the one It's spotted something. A dead crane wing But then again, maybe not. For birds like this the shallow lakes of the Puszta offer a rich supply of food, Many young eagles After leaving the nest, for five years [cranes cawing] Dead fish is easy prey. The problem is [birds cawing] The artificial lakes show how well wildlife and human activity can co-exist in Hungary. Soon, winter returns The first sleet shows that the season is just flexing its muscles. It looks as though the thin ice has broken under the weight of a young deer. A convenient lunch for the old eagles. One of the chicks may have flown off but the other is still hanging around. The adult male tries to chase it away. But it's the chick [eagle calls] Quickly the adult calls for help. [eagle calling] The female makes it clear, this is their territory and even their own chick has to leave. The youngster understands, The bond between the old couple As usual in wintertime, they will court with the aim of raising chicks again in their nest in the floodplain forest. For the young otter, too, a good year comes to an end. It has developed well There is still much The prospects are good will be home to otters and eagles for centuries to come.