GYLES BRANDRETH: Royalty that mixes fairy tale It's Cinderella, but this time, NARRATOR: who led a remarkable life. HUGO VICKERS: He's not Greek. The Greek royal family has no Greek blood whatsoever. They were Danish. He was a gorgeous blonde Viking. You can see why a young girl But he had to make sacrifices Lord Mountbatten who set Prince Philip up. They changed his name, they put him and they made him It was made quite clear to him He just had to turn up. For somebody as active as he, that wasn't funny. There was a period &quot;I'm not sure And his quest for control Yes, Prince Philip Yes, he can shout at you. DICKIE ARBITER LVO: And if the discussion so much the better. NARRATOR: Philip shaped his life He was dynamic. He was imaginative. He was a man who liked to be moving forward a man of action. Everything He gave up smoking He had his last cigarette, put it out, and never looked And of course, he was charming. He could get away with anything. NARRATOR: But his legacy proved He was the man of the house. What he said goes. INGRID SEWARD: that he wanted him to be, and that used to GYLES BRANDRETH: Prince Philip where you don't complain you just get on with life. These are the cards You play the hand you've got. COMMENTATOR: Among the first is her own husband, Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh. COMMENTATOR: Rising, and touches the Queen's crown to help her bear its burden. The thing you've got to remember is that he was more royal you're ever likely to meet. He was more royal Both the Queen were great, great grandchildren But the Queen was descended on the other side from royalty. With the Duke of Edinburgh, he was descended kaisers, tsars. He was related to them all. HUGO: Prince Philip's mother, great grandmother, at Windsor Castle in 1885. She was the first to be born. She descended who had died. So Queen Victoria had rather adopted her mother, Victoria of Battenberg. She was an unusual figure. She was hard of hearing, Many of Prince Philip's in terms of his interest his caring side, in spiritual matters, Her life was difficult because everything was overthrown And her two aunts, the Tsarina were murdered in Russia. She was actually because her eustachian tubes so this was quite isolating. She was a very beautiful NARRATOR: Philip's father had The Greeks and so they imported and they basically became Prince Philip though he had no great fondness he once told me, was assassinated. The Greek royal family were forever going One of the Kings of Greece said the prerequisite of being is you have a suitcase Princess Alice married and went to live in Greece. She then had four daughters the son, Prince Philip. He was born on the kitchen table called Mon Repos in Corfu. In those days, I guess the kitchen table NARRATOR: The new baby was named of Schleswig-Holstein- Prince of Greece and Denmark. But almost things went wrong Prince Andrew of Greece a show trial, accused of treason and was due possibly They only got out by the skin They were rescued They took refuge where they lived Prince and Princess Andrew, his parents, So they had to rely one or two rich aunts wife of Lord Mountbatten, who paid The heiress was married and dynastic ambitious uncle. His father floated down where he ended up living His mother had and ended up in an asylum And for several years, Prince Philip certainly for two or three years, not a Christmas card, When I asked him about this, He said that wasn't, you know, Prince Philip in very high esteem. And when I wrote he bridled So what I would say is that he's managed that he thinks his father But I'm afraid that his father And I'm afraid his father HUGO: he would go down to the Ritz and have a few drinks and tell a few jokes. And that's sort of Members of the royal family they want to serve And they feel terribly At one point in a draft Prince Andrew surrendered and Prince Philip wrote I had a holiday of three days It's not my idea of being His father had sort of was a dissolute figure what family savings there were in the casinos and his mother latterly and went into holy orders. So it's a slightly Prince Philip was a dutiful son, despite the fact his mother wasn't around. And he used to write to her things that he'd been doing. So it was a close relationship. And in her fading years, she went to live And Earl Mountbatten, Prince Philip's uncle used Prince Philip said to me once, you know, &quot;My father was away, I just had to get on with it. NARRATOR: at distant Prince Philip The family who had lots of castles but personally, and he even in the soles of his shoes because there were holes So, I mean, It didn't bother him RICHARD KAY: Philip had been cousins, sisters. He'd had to fend for himself, he'd had to sort of stand up and he'd done He never really talked but it must have been The only evidence of it you'll ever find You go to visitors' books different houses that he's been. I've seen it a couple of times. He would be visiting us, and he'd put his name signing the address his name, he'd simply put, no fixed abode. So he must have been aware that he had no fixed abode, but he never complained The great stability was his grandmother, Victoria, later Marchioness and she was the one who bought him 'cause his father and his mother wasn't there. NARRATOR: to the young prince's life. Originally, in Germany in Baden, where one of his sisters and they had Kurt Hahn, who very quickly saw what was happening in Germany And so he moved his whole to Gordonstoun NARRATOR: Scottish boarding school with a curriculum focused initiative, and self-discipline. He responded very well to that sort of outward which was sort of making responsible citizens He was always sort of He's so successful at sports, which is terribly important Gordonstoun is by no means and it certainly for his son, but it was very much for Prince Philip. And he did very well there. NARRATOR: While Philip had found COMMENTATOR: The infant daughter and Duchess of York Elizabeth Alexandra Mary and affectionately welcomed NARRATOR: After her uncle, abdicated for love, the Empire's Baby was now GYLES: The Queen had an idyllic Completely perfect. A loving parents and adoring father, a close family unit, Princess Margaret Rose, two young girls being Country pursuits for them. Just a perfect small, Her life was always set out. The inevitability of her one day becoming Queen She just followed the path. NARRATOR: From a young age, Elizabeth her parents on royal tours COMMENTATOR: Dartmouth, as a cadet before the war here it is now in 1939, accompanied NARRATOR: Philip was now 18 from Gordonstoun. Despite a desire to fly Louis Mountbatten, had steered him The influence is rather interesting. Having studied I think I'm confident to say took no interest in him the possibility that he might Mountbatten arranges join the royal party Prince Philip was charged with looking while the King did his duty, She was about 13. There he was. I have to say, and looking very handsome. NARRATOR: Newsreel shows standing a couple of steps It's the first time he and Elizabeth Prince Philip was funny, and quite full of himself. And he was very charming You can see why a young girl He was a gorgeous blonde Viking. When they left Philip urgently rowed his boat waving goodbye to them. I mean, that was presumptuous, NARRATOR: a written correspondence. You wouldn't have thought because Princess Elizabeth and Prince Philip had this much more NARRATOR: had their doubts They weren't anti-Philip, that he wasn't part of He might have royal blood, and he had a difficult family And I think and Queen Elizabeth felt that she was too young and perhaps a sort of rich English than a penniless prince. Prince Philip put his foot in it when he arrived up at Balmoral to meet King George VI And he walked into the room 'cause he was wearing a kilt and he thought to his future parents in law. But in fact, they didn't think SARAH BRADFORD: They thought They thought he wasn't properly he hadn't been to Eton, the thing for the courtiers. He told me when he went there was a flunky and showing him the way, and he said rather impatiently &quot;I do know the way, you know, They thought he was a bit of And of course, His sisters were very Germanic. They'd all married Germans, So it was difficult. And the Queen Mother always called him the Hun. When he came into the room, &quot;Here comes the Hun,&quot; which I don't think His sister, Sophie, the one who became her first husband, died in 1943, and he had been and they all became But I mean, they were in Germany Cecile was living in Darmstadt and married to the Grand Duke, who had literally And they were coming for the wedding of his brother And unfortunately, the plane hit a chimney and everybody So Prince Philip was called And I remember with people in his office, they said, one thing is this awful thing happened about his sister because she was pregnant And I mean, the little baby in the trauma of the accident. And so he then travelled out to the funeral, and, rows of coffins. There's no question a lot of Nazi influence but you obviously can't put that at I mean, he was there because he was attending But he will have seen that and he'd have been But it was very difficult when he was marrying the Queen. So some of the stuffier taking the idea that, he was basically German. Having German connections was about to get Now we are at war, until the other side Philip was a very good sailor. We saw him in naval He served in both and the Far Eastern theatres NARRATOR: Serving on board in the Mediterranean, Philip made his mark during a night-time attack He fixed a searchlight and held it steady It was over the Italians at sea. He served He was he served Cape Matapan, and he also served So when people kept talking that meant nothing to him serving till the whole thing And the war in the Far East which was a little bit later. While Elizabeth for her pen-pal prince, Philip received a mention and the Greek War Cross. Prince Philip had a heroic war. He was a young man. And I think he enjoyed the war. He certainly did his stuff Officers who knew him but men who served under him, They reckoned and a good bloke. So he had and he expected NARRATOR: had not gone unnoticed COMMENTATOR: Neither her parents that she should live She was rapidly approaching Her rare self-reliance PHIL DAMPIER: During the war, Princess Elizabeth had had a picture of him on her mantlepiece, and her nanny actually said to Princess Elizabeth, &quot;You shouldn't really have otherwise will people So Elizabeth went away with another photo and said, I don't think anyone's going to recognise NARRATOR: Victory brought 20-year-old Elizabeth After years spent housing Lord Mountbatten accelerated his plan anglicised war hero. His uncle and set Prince Philip up. They changed his name from Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg- They changed his religion into the Church of England, and they made him SARAH: Lord Mountbatten certainly promoted as far as he could do. He became much closer COMMENTATOR: was the wedding Patricia, whose both the princesses. At the church door, now Lieutenant Mountbatten lends Philip was essentially and there was resentment about that in the country. And clearly it affected and they were worried They'd had to shore up their own throne, because of the overthrow and they didn't want anti-German because of Elizabeth's choice Lord Mountbatten saw later the Duke of Grafton, and he was a great friend It's always said got him a double promotion and sent out to be ADC which very conveniently They loaded the gun for him and they left him They couldn't force him NARRATOR: to allow the couple However, the steely princess if she didn't get her prince. A number of women 'cause he was a good looking and he was a dashing RICHARD: among higher members but they did manage I have to say, because Philip capable and was quite clearly which I think meant They were a very, and it meant the break up And the king absolutely And, you know, he was probably quite happy with the arrangement as it was. A lot of families, I think, are concerned when a daughter perhaps the first man that she's ever So in order to see whether it was going the king was happy to take them and make them delay But after that, he realised and it did. NARRATOR: After waiting a year, the public announcement I am so happy is by my side. The general public It was the austere war years. London was a filthy, And suddenly, are going to get married, so everyone could relate HUGO: The Queen Mother that the Queen would marry a Grenadier Guard. There'd been lots of them during the war. And she said, &quot;Won't And actually, they were so cross that they wouldn't have as Colonel of the Regiment which was not very nice of them. He gave up smoking on the morning of his marriage. I think put it out, and never looked That is Everything he does And actually just having &quot;Right, that's it, HUGO: The wedding, it was I mean, it was still a service so it was no sort of red tunics And, you know, rationing was still on But nevertheless, it did give everybody great hope for the future. None of his three were invited to the wedding, which they minded But luckily, by the time they were all determined and they jolly well were there. SARAH: that he had specially And Queen Mary, completely misread it and thought and said, &quot;Disgusting thing.&quot; NARRATOR: Philip and Elizabeth the Duke SARAH: of the pair of them on honeymoon at Broadlands they're looking extremely And at that time, you know, quite dashing say, and she's lovely all over. NARRATOR: became the royal residence. Marriage did give Prince Philip despite his denials It gave him... it gave him It gave him a home. It gave him somewhere NARRATOR: Philip grew into his new role. In between a whirlwind diplomatic efforts the couple had two children, Charles in 1948 He had to curb that he was thinking until such time as the Queen he was able to do very much During the early years Prince Philip was in the Navy. So he wasn't exactly but he took charge And obviously, they had nannies, but the Queen was busy She was 26 years old. And Prince Philip made as far as the children It was very much like where the man is deferred to, because that's how And so obviously that's the way SARAH: He really liked the idea Throwing Prince Charles Buckingham Palace. They had this wonderfully where Prince Philip The Navy And the Grand Harbour and there were at the Phoenicia Hotel. The Queen has always said other than England She could drive around she could go shopping, she could go and watch It was a place and where they could really be as normal a young family NARRATOR: But the simple life Whilst Philip and Elizabeth were on a tour of Kenya, the king died suddenly. NEWSREADER: From Sandringham, the Queen Mother spoke to her daughter Here lay the body whom death has taken from our midst. The high and mighty Princess is now by the death of happy memory become by the grace of God, NARRATOR: According to his equerry, who happened to be with them at the time, He went white over his face and just tried because neither that her father They'd expected another ten years of freedom before the Princess the reins of the monarchy. So it was a huge shock, their happy existence was over. He generally thought that they would carry on naval officer That turned out to be And of course, After that, That was a major setback And he had to adjust as a sovereign's partner, It was all very unfamiliar NARRATOR: Philip was granted That is probably in his life that he had to face because he hated getting which he hadn't earned. You couldn't give him anything, any honour unless you could So to suddenly find himself a Field Marshal and Marshal he hated all that, His uncle Lord Mountbatten His grandfather had risen and everybody said Prince Philip on his own merits It's unquestionable to the Queen of England So you're not leaving NARRATOR: workload intensified. The Queen didn't discuss with Prince Philip because constitutionally She is sovereign and through succession While he was the Prince he was not entitled GYLES: I said did you know what to do? I have no idea.&quot; I said, &quot;Were there people He said, no. There were people telling me For the Queen, there was a role set out. It was clear because there is a role and she stepped But he was then left and it was challenging for him because the Queen a Prime Minister, who was an old man by then on his knee in the 1920s and her father's So these two old men, and she was only 26, and the Duke of Edinburgh The Queen is actually and having Philip at her side Can you imagine if you've got walking into a room hundreds of people all waiting what you're wearing, NARRATOR: brought an early chance COMMENTATOR: St. James's Palace of the newly appointed over by the Duke of Edinburgh. NARRATOR: was Philip's It went without a hitch. At the coronation sort of stood out right and just after the Queen he had to kneel at her feet And a few seconds later, &quot;Where did you get that hat?&quot; And I think of how he relaxed He was the perfect foil for her because he would make her COMMENTATOR: The royal family on the palace balcony to receive the acclamation on Coronation Day. NARRATOR: Philip was frustrated by attempts to rein in his influence. When the Queen Winston Churchill insisted that Prince Philip couldn't have to name his children. NARRATOR: Philip's uncle, had overstepped the mark. So Lord Mountbatten well, the House of Mountbatten and he wasn't entirely wrong. What actually happened was who was at dinner went to see Queen Mary, this is what Mountbatten And she summoned Churchill, And Churchill And to some extent, I think he rather bullied called the House of Windsor. And there were for doing that. The House of Windsor for the Royal House. Everybody knows loves it, That, of course, is also a made-up name But it is said, I think, Prince Philip was genuinely because most men give NARRATOR: had sealed Philip was furious and their relationship He actually complained, He's the only man whose own children He was unhappy about that, but it was also the restrictions on what he could He couldn't speak so frankly, The old school courtiers at Buckingham Palace They didn't like him. They thought They didn't appreciate his views He was a bright, sharp, He didn't like the set up He found it stuffy. He found this habit of servants So he clearly wanted to be just your breath of fresh air. He was gonna make if he was gonna stick around. But there was a period &quot;I'm not sure NARRATOR: with an escape from Prince Philip to open And then he took if you like, and sailed off for another Prince Philip was away with his equerry, They went off on a sort of And of course it started gossip that he must be having Speculation was rife in papers, that the marriage DAVID SAUNDERS: Prince Philip very much so. I would describe him because he can mix But he was a ladies' man He could have women smiling Prince Philip has been accused time and time again, and go back in the 1950s, of him and perhaps even In the early '60s, it emerged that Prince Philip had been going to Thursday Club, which was a club in London with some very There are all sorts of rumours that he'd met There was a lot of rubbish about the orgies which I think were just sort of drunken boys evenings, Stories have been written whom Philip has allegedly He certainly had an eye and he liked, you know, There were quite And the trouble is that whether an affair or just a friendship And that's the problem. Well, Prince Philip with accusations He said if I... you know, how could I do this if I always if I was always At the end of the day, there's never been that he had affairs. Now, Prince Philip that window shop, COMMENTATOR: On a faraway island indeed a serenade and his Royal Highness on a Pacific Island Throne. NARRATOR: Midway crisis hits Captain Michael Parker His wife alleges adultery. The rumours built up, not for the first time It was the press in America as much as they did about King Edward with Wallis Simpson, And it was the American press after story suggesting that Philip was getting while he was out of the country. Such were the rumours, and so concerned and indeed the Queen to issue the one about the state of her marriage basically saying, all is well. But significantly, she flew out to Portugal ahead of his return to the UK. And I think that was if you like, and to show that all was well The Queen, assuming while he was away, with a false beard on to try In fact, he'd shaved it off So, the joke fell a bit flat. But by then, they seem to have And then only four years later, Prince Andrew was born So that's why Prince Andrew because it kind of indicated was back on track in 1960. NARRATOR: The experience the press to Philip. Prince Philip did not like and really didn't want to engage in any kind of conversation So the way we always see him is, of sort of rather I got on extremely well I normally do, I think, but there are certain things which perhaps He walked away as soon as I mean, a reporter said, And he said, &quot;Have you ever been The reporter said, &quot;Yes,&quot; Or &quot;How are you feeling today, &quot;Well, do I look sick?&quot; NARRATOR: Philip threw himself using his influence which he felt passionate about. Prince Philip the loss of his career, but he knew he had to find And because he's not for five minutes doing nothing. What he used to do when he was required there for a lot of things When he wasn't required, COMMENTATOR: Prince Philip's helped to collect $1 million Prince Philip was a man who lived very much If you'd had you don't spend a lot of time And he was a man at all points And there was always new things to be solved. Shortly after the war, the National Playing was set up wanted to build on bomb sites and wanted 'cause there was because they'd been flattened And Prince Philip with Kurt Hahn, and said, &quot;No, children to run around, And that's why we have and greenbelt throughout And it's largely down to him. And, you know, It had been that he became involved to Princess Elizabeth And what surprised me it was to find, A, he was the President he found somebody very committed and extremely hands on. He was interested in psychology. He read a lot of Carl Jung, the Swiss Jung thought in this life not interested in themselves, interested in other people science, nature, art, Philip had real reservations who spent time brooding thinking about themselves, being kind to themselves. He didn't have much chock PHIL DAMPIER: He had in physical fitness He once said that kids in future about lifting a knife And this was decades before we started The Duke of Edinburgh's has touched the lives It teaches leadership and then they have the ability Once you get a gold standard, He was the first royal person He talked about conservation. He knew you know, were going to die RICHARD GRIFFIN: of the World Wide Fund for many, many years. He could go to any country and get access The work over the years was amazing. He also alleviated from running the royal estates. He did all that for her that was somewhere He was very much to the fore the estates of Sandringham He was also a deputy ranger So he got a tremendous input within the homes. He had to, for himself, find and that he did through in which he got hands And then the other 830 in which he was involved. COMMENTATOR: The evening for the Duke's Award scheme. So a good time was had by all. He made a real difference As he said to me once, NARRATOR: and charitable duties Philip retreated Working for anyone which of course the royal family they have two lives. There's their work, And I was very, very fortunate because I was part of I started off at the bottom and worked my way up to His Royal Highness Prince Philip would come which was the office have a wonderful The horses didn't care They would sometimes act good But for him, He enjoyed the fact that just because he told the horses they didn't always do it. I think NARRATOR: But Philip wasn't Three, two, one, go. NARRATOR: He helped to develop into a fast-paced It was quite surreal, Her Majesty the Queen's husband, was driving a carriage that him and built to a sport with horses she'd bred. And I think We went and National Championships. He was On his own merit, he won two bronze as part of so he was an excellent horseman. To do anything with horses, you have to be Competitions we'd go to, they'd always be a drinks party or a cocktail party, and to see him working I would love But of course, when you're sometimes Prince Philip like a sailor to his horses sometimes when we were going if they didn't go exactly NARRATOR: But Philip was never as husband to the Queen. By 1977, Elizabeth had been and was in the limelight Nobody can be normal There is an invisible The Queen's own children bow when they meet her NARRATOR: The renown reflected The first time I was slightly nervous. You know, worried about saying But he was He made me feel very comfortable. The Duke was the only person that would treat the Queen simply her soul mate, her best friend. Prince Philip wore the trousers There was an example of that when he was driving Lord Mountbatten, They were driving across and the queen started that Prince Philip And he said, if you make about my driving, And she just went quiet. And when they stopped, Lord Mountbatten why do you let him talk She said, &quot;Well, because I once went with the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh to the Royal Variety Show. And she disappeared to be introduced And I stood with Prince Philip. And he was observing the scene. And suddenly I realised and across the crowded room, I watched them and she smiled I thought, &quot;Yes, of course, there is something special It isn't obvious, NARRATOR: as a representative He enjoyed looking the part. He always He was conscious Whenever we turned up he would always He always had a handkerchief at exactly the angle, the same line He comes from that era You would never see him and a tie and a jacket. They were around the old Hollywood. Even though they were never classed celebrities, you would see them white tie, black tie, long suit, NARRATOR: So impactful was he attained a spiritual status. There's an island in the deepest where locals worship as a god. It's the one place on Earth if you like, to his wife she is the sovereign. She is the Queen, he's the man two steps - And here he is the godlike GYLES: What was interesting he said, &quot;I don't want to talk And I said, &quot;Why not?&quot; He said, &quot;Because, you know, you would just want You want to make - A picture of these native people in their boat as though it's - can't we respect whatever they may be?&quot; Indeed, a penis gourd at one point when the Palace was asked whether Prince Philip the answer came back we are reluctant to commit When you meet royalty, Somebody once said, it's rather like getting You know, it's a relief The Duke of Edinburgh and whenever he went down he went out of his way to try at least one of them laugh, You're going to watch unveiler at work. - great fun with the Queen And I always used to try where I just follow It was very, very funny and how he interacted A classic example was when they went This centre was basically any possible nuclear attacks And he said to one of the chaps &quot;Do you speak Russian And the bloke said, &quot;No.&quot; He said, &quot;Well, let's hope when you're in charge.&quot; He was in Ghana and said, &quot;How many MPs have you got And the chap said, &quot;About 200.&quot; And he said, He said, &quot;We've got 650 and most of them 1963 at the Kenyan Independence a lot of countries obviously And as midnight struck and the union jet came down and the Kenyan flag he turned to Jomo Kenyatta, &quot;Are you sure you want to go NARRATOR: But the jokes He occasionally got into trouble because he wasn't particularly He just spoke as he found, He tried to keep So he makes the odd remark. And occasionally He once said to me that it if he saw he was going and he saw the British press 'cause he knew they'd spend just waiting for him and that would become the story. What I liked about him one of these so-called gaffes, If you saw him the next day, he would just carry on If we're having a conversation one of these at you or one of those and they can overhear you get a bit anxious. He argued that we in the media that all he is doing He always wanted to get and he'd like Sometimes it could be offensive. You had to know his ways. I remember thinking, he doesn't really mean it. He's just sort of - The great thing there isn't really or anything, is this true or is that true&quot; because what you see That is the reality with him. Well... I'm delighted he took it down. I hope he did it. He was probably the last man who'd get away with politically I think a lot of people What's interesting is that he wasn't particularly as to whether the public He came from an era and he saw some horrors there. He thought that most people are a little bit therefore, you know, they're a little bit too And he certainly wasn't that. He'd take onboard any criticism and he accepted When he went to Canada he actually said openly, we're here, we'll do our bit. But if you don't want us, just let us know, He said people seem to think the monarchy The monarchy It's there for the people. And if the people want change, they can vote for it because that's what democracy Perhaps it was a little bit sometimes and not the immense contribution that he actually NARRATOR: The global attention a level of protection. Prince Philip tolerated and he liked his freedom. And obviously he never until he got married then he had to put up with it. NARRATOR: Like it or not, In 1979, Lord Mountbatten, was killed by an IRA bomb. When we were at Sandringham if he wanted some free time, And at the end of the day, if Prince Philip's gonna get and drive off with there's not a lot Prince Philip was really He was a strong, You've got something interesting to talk about like I always used to say, 'Cause I'm interested I'm not coming And he sort of allowed him Equally, there were other times &quot;Sir, you really need NARRATOR: Philip to security concerns. Most weekends he would say to me, One day, he said to me, Mrs. Reagan on the carriage.&quot; NARRATOR: and the First Lady, Nancy Reagan were in the UK But security was tight. Prince Philip He said, &quot;Bloody woman.&quot; I said, &quot;What's happening, sir?&quot; He said, &quot;Oh, we've got riding on the carriage.&quot; Security men had a suit that was two sizes too small just a head We get on the carriage The Queen and the President was riding two horses We finished up at this area. You drive that are about six inches And of course, And she said, &quot;Oh, &quot;Oh, I'll show you,&quot; he said. So we then start, trot on, and we started trotting And I looked up and the President. And I'm thinking and we're going to kill the President's wife driving through the cones. Constitutionally, of course, Prince Philip did not have an official role of any kind, but it's entirely how much she consulted him On private family matters, she deferred to him as any wife Philip That was Philip's role. And the Queen pretty much from when they started having that Philip's role NARRATOR: As eldest child, Prince Philip was very close Princess Anne and Prince Edward. He was never particularly Charles wasn't the man and that used to really I once asked about his relationship and I said, &quot;To me, sir, I mean, you walk the same way, you share interests that are similar. You know, young people, the environment.&quot; Then he stopped me, He said, &quot;Yeah, Of course, we're very similar. But there is And the difference is this, that Charles is a romantic And Prince Philip He liked to solve things. He liked to get things done. He was a doer, he was practical, They're not at all the same And I think that Prince Philip perhaps expected too much Whenever Prince Charles be it some sort of green or some sort of idea to do his father would always And he would always try and get an answer out of him And maybe sometimes but he would never that he agreed straight away. He was always... You know, he always tended explain things to make sure why they were doing it. DICKIE ARBITER: was full of Prince of Wales and his relationship and he didn't get It's like any other family. There are times you get and there are times you But this is So they can't sneeze without it They can't cough without as having bronchitis. So, every everything they do, every move they make and every move Prince Charles went through a period of being He co-operated with a biography about as a small child, feeling And I think Prince Philip that sort of thing disappointing And it wouldn't have made because he belonged where you don't complain You just get on with life. These are the cards you play the hand you've got. NARRATOR: Philip watched dominated the media. The arrival of Diana Spencer RICARD: In the beginning, had the easiest relationship Philip had been an outsider. Diana was She married He married She was an outsider as far as She wasn't an outsider as far as because she was In some ways, Prince Philip was to blame of Charles and Diana on Prince Charles to marry her. And clearly, she wasn't the right wife and he told him to stop, stop dithering I'm sure at the time, but he even said, you can go back to Camilla.&quot; NARRATOR: and before long, parents to another the royal family's prospects Even the Queen had settled down. Andrew was hard work, but in many ways, and a successful serviceman. He made a great career And then Fergie and they were thrilled. I mean, they were delighted. NARRATOR: Sarah Ferguson and a promising career in PR. Philip approved. He had initially taken I mean he thought I mean, like the Queen, they were astonished Prince Andrew off their hands. NARRATOR: But Andrew soon ran into trouble when she was photographed while having her toes sucked When the toe sucking fiasco Philip was utterly furious. I mean, he thought on the royal family. And he let his feelings It wasn't just the toe sucking, it was the whole collapse her inappropriate gestures She spent lots of money. She was always traveling first class, doing un-royal things He really didn't want anything and if she walked into a room, And it got to the extent welcome in royal homes when Prince Philip was away And their relationship NARRATOR: with a troubled relationship. Charles and Diana a life of royal duties Prince Philip and Princess Diana He had a great deal of sympathy, and I think that he disapproved of how Charles behaved to Diana. And he'd write describing himself as Pa and the queen as Ma There was a lot of stuff so much in a royal marriage, And he was trying to be The marriage of the heir It was important to the country, to the monarchy, that he felt he should get I've read the letters to the Princess of Wales And they are very good letters They are very moving, particularly since we know But he was really trying and to find points of contact. And saying things like, you both like the opera. Why don't you try together a bit more? That sort of thing. All sorts of things like that. I said to her - these are very helpful letters. They're supportive letters. And she acknowledged but she said that the time she found it hard to accept that they were being offered INGRID SEWARD: became more and more He said to her, Diana, you must remember You're part of us, At the end, Diana said, I hate him.&quot; So she took really against him. NARRATOR: Philip was not often where he didn't get Diana told me that he shouted and she told me that she told never ever speak to people But I think Prince Philip had a very loyal band If he tore a strip off he'd go in later in the day &quot;Could you just look through And you'd realise that, &quot;Okay, If I made a mistake or what he thought I could say to him, so we did that And sometimes he'd accept it. But other times he would say, &quot;Well, you could have done And you say, But you could argue the point. Did he like a good argument? No, he likes a good discussion. And if the discussion so much, the better. I wouldn't go as far and it becomes a shouting match. It's a good... a good debate. NARRATOR: and with all the pressure, Diana declared war. Prince Philip kept saying you have to do This is when they were at the height of the war and the Queen kept thinking it would go away. And Prince Philip kept saying, &quot;You've got to do something.&quot; So he was chiding her. When the Queen is dealing and things, she will take And so there are One is what should the Queen what would the person inside He did write a letter they could lead separate lives But unfortunately, that wasn't the view taken Princess Anne was to battle it out through with her tank driving husband, Divorce And for the for the royal family to have three marriages it must have been profoundly and deeply disturbing for them. I think Prince Philip's if they can't make it work, it's better rather than their destructive publicity affecting NARRATOR: But nothing for what was to follow. Diana's death under intense focus. There was a lot of criticism and Prince Philip And unfortunately, again, you go and ask the question, &quot;Do you think the Queen and Prince Philip And the answer, &quot;Yeah, If you put the question, &quot;The Queen and Prince Philip are up at Balmoral supporting their grandchildren, William aged 15, Harry aged 12. Do you think they're doing And the answer would be yes. So it depends how you put it. It was a very, and it was only really and Prince Philip supporting and just kept their heads down and carried on And I think if it hadn't been that the monarchy NARRATOR: Just a few months Philip and Elizabeth celebrated I think that the main lesson is that tolerance of any happy marriage. And you can take it from me has the quality of tolerance NARRATOR: After half a century Philip had developed for the Queen to tolerate. There were so many things, all those things, I mean, you know, it's endless. The arts as well, pictures, he had a huge collection He was an extremely Prince Philip has written He's written about conservation. He's written about science. He's written and managing estates. He was fascinated and he had friends who were Muslims, He went to the Vatican with Pope John Paul II. But he wouldn't want to talk That wasn't his style. He did studied religion He's got a collection GYLES: In fact, about faith and the environment. Nobody reads them. They are too complicated He was a voracious reader, Prince Edward's wife, told me not too long ago and even well into his 90s. He also used to take Yes, he did. NARRATOR: Philip didn't limit GYLES: He kept himself Exercises, stretching exercises, He did his own version He didn't eat too much, He was good Moderation in all things. But he could mix You know, He was very self-disciplined, When he was a young man, he would run around the garden at Windlesham Manor and a lot of jerseys, you know, And then it used to make She says, &quot;Why are you doing running in all those clothes?&quot; He said, &quot;Because I want Flying was one of the great He went on flying from being through to being in his 60s He flew as much in his lifetime as somebody in the RAF I felt I might begin to understand and some of the difficulties whether service The Queen's Flights upgraded from turboprop So he said to me, &quot;Oh, I can't drive too much over I want to upgrade my licence.&quot; This is the Queen's husband. So he had to take a helicopter from the East Terrace fly to Brize Norton, fly a helicopter back. After about the third day, &quot;How do you do this, sir? I mean, I know driving but here then flying a helicopter, which is not that I know about flying a helicopter, but it's not like and flying a plane how do you - how do you He said, &quot;Funnily enough, You're at the mercy and you can't control the wind, you can't control updrafts, You have to kind of go And of course, if I was to describe him in one word, he kind of goes with the flow as long as Prince Philip and when it got he would come back and do his paperwork, but of course he would leave and co-pilot I remember once and the World Wide Fund didn't realise they've got and she spent the entire flight in the cabin worried that Prince Philip wasn't going We let it get down to when she was really panicking and took over the controls. NARRATOR: As he grew older, many of his more But he remained The real role that the Queen and Prince Philip They were always trying and make things better You could go back to things like German state visits but obviously the one remembered today NARRATOR: were to blame for the death Lord Mountbatten. HUGO: Prince Philip would have for not wishing to engage But he said once you know, it's very easy and things with their enemies. But if you'd make friends you very often get NATO is a defensive and never intended in any way or to support aggression On two public occasions, celebrating the Queen has spoken very deeply and movingly of how much You know, &quot;my strength and stay&quot; is her commonest And I think I mean, he's been there for her. He's always been there for her. And it's hard to imagine as Queen in the way NARRATOR: royal duties well into his 90s. He joked once that he to a hundred to keep Charles because they were worried that were a bit off the wall and also that he could and he might not have been as they were. But in later life, he had a much with Prince Charles, and he was very pleased to see the fact that he married And I think they think that however long Charles the long-term future of DICKIE: and they admired him. And if they've got a problem, if they need to talk it's easy to go He's been around a long time. He's been through the mill They adored him, and they have huge respect NARRATOR: to various descendants He educated quietly and privately without people quite a number of their children And I remember Sir Brian McGrath had to deal descendants of some of these, great nephews who wound up in trouble in India I'm a great nephew So the call would go through and Sir Brian would have One or two caused quite Near the very, very end because he had lived to face the Queen decided to retire and that he shouldn't on all their sort of engagements And in the last years, when he was just and he'd make the odd remark He wanted to get away the constant comings NARRATOR: Prince Philip's came 65 years after his naval career Since 1952, he had carried out over He sort of really was able to and do whatever he liked. He moved to Sandringham. He was living not but at Wood Farm, which is on the royal estate. It's a property that perhaps And the Queen do very much treat it and it's got a lovely... It's very cosy. He was much happier sitting to look after him, a footman, a companion He spent his days pottering painting, reading, A long time ago the Queen Mother, turned 100, what, would you like to be 100? He said, &quot;Oh, God, I can't He was then, I suppose, He said, He said, &quot;Oh, God no, I certainly NARRATOR: Just two months Philip died of old age with the Queen at his bedside. I particularly wanted to say I suppose the last 70 years, has given the most remarkable, And as you can imagine, my family - MAN: Fire! NARRATOR: At the funeral, by a custom Land Rover designed for the purpose Due to the ongoing the Queen had to sit alone. I think the public will look and see how it's affecting her because basically she's been in love And I think people will worry how she's going to deal RICHARD: I think she's gonna In recent years, she's lost her mother and the third member was Prince Philip. I mean, these were in the Queen's life. The Duke of Edinburgh I said to him, you know, &quot;What would you like Well, he said, &quot;I don't know. I did my best to keep the show In fact, if we regard of Elizabeth the Second the joint author of that success He had supported her and understood how to support This is a man who came which it was taken for granted there had been very few female heads of state outside He will be remembered for and his consistency and his total support When you working with somebody, I've got so much respect If you just look back and lectures he was giving they seem incredibly prescient. I've seen some of his archives, for various projects, He was way ahead of his time and most of the things Prince Charles then followed up NARRATOR: From his start as consort, and family man, Philip shaped his own legacy. He was very much the power and much underrated And it's gonna be for the younger royals to actually replace that. But it's incredible to think if he lives to a similar age, will be the first monarch So if that lasts I think they'll feel We have a monarchy thrives on continuity where all around us, presidents and prime ministers Our monarchy Our monarchy Politicians come and go, It's 1,000 years of history. It's the golden thread and it's about kings and queens, princes and princesses and their flesh They are human beings like us. The Queen and Prince Philip And they also are the Queen Throughout her reign, he's walking one step giving her total support. So he managed and do his own thing, be a dad, grandad, what a remarkable legacy. This Commonwealth came because people made sacrifices Now it has been handed to us. And if we don't make we shall have nothing to hand And the world will have of much greater value than