We begin at around 10,000 BC. In several places in the world, man leaves to become sedentary, developing agriculture and animal husbandry. Food becomes more abundant, the population notably by taking over more land, form an elite, causing increasing social inequalities. In Mesopotamia, the appearance of writing Slaves are either prisoners of war, who in or they are people in debt who enslave themselves Wealthy and powerful families own a few slaves, The men are used for their labor force in while the women are often found as servants Around 1750 B.C., Hammurabi, the king of Babylon, among other things, the treatment of slaves, and the penalties they face. Slavery is also mentioned in different forms as well as in the texts of the Old Testament, which describe the treatment reserved for slaves. But at present, there is no archaeological evidence of the slavery of the Hebrew people in Egypt, nor of their exodus. In Ancient Greece, the island of Chios specializes Trade ships then leave to buy non-Greek slaves In Chios, some of them end up in the vineyards, The city specializes in this very profitable Other Greek cities follow suit, and the slave so much so that around 400 BC, about half of the population Later on, Rome follows this model. Slaves come from military conquests, and from regions where the so-called barbarian peoples The slaves are then sold in slave markets. The value of a slave varies according to his but around the first century AD, a slave is worth roughly about one and a half years of salary. Owning one is a sign of wealth and success. The richest sometimes have thousands of slaves, The condition of slaves varies from place Some work in mines, others are servants, and could occupy more important positions, such as that of an accountant, for example. The 7th century marks the beginning of the The prisoners from the conquests are enslaved After the conquest of Egypt, the Muslims move and towards Nubians in the South. In 652, after the failure of the siege of Dongola, a peace treaty is signed with the Nubians and both parties start to trade. The Nubians commit themselves to provide 360 This treaty will last almost 7 centuries. Further west, after 60 years of resistance, Berbers are captured and enslaved. In reaction, many convert to Islam because In Northern Europe, the Vikings dominate the During raids and pillaging, captives are made slaves and are either kept by their abductors or sold in markets. The best educated from the monasteries are In the east, Vikings, who are called Varegues, control a trade route that follows the Dnieper River to Constantinople. There they sell, among other things, Slavic In the Abbasid Caliphate, the majority of slaves from the conquests and trade routes end up in Baghdad. Further south, towards Basra, there are huge Thousands of slaves are sent there to work The work is back-breaking, and the living In 869, Ali Ibn Muhammad, of uncertain origin, takes advantage of the slaves' discontent to organize an insurrection. The slaves quickly swell his army and organize a veritable guerrilla war against the large landowners and the surrounding towns and villages, which are pillaged. For 14 years, the Abbasid caliphate is undermined Finally, the revolt is defeated and put down. After the failure of mass slavery in agricultural In addition, the Caliph, to strengthen his Young slaves from Central Asia and the Caucasus to form a loyal army, which is called the But the Abbasid Caliphate declines due to Mongol conquests from Asia. The Mamluk army, after repelling the seventh crusade, assassinate the Ayyubid heir and found the Mamluk Sultanate. A few years later, in 1258, the Mongols seize The Abbasid heir flees to Cairo. With no more access to Asia, slaves now mainly After the conquest of North Africa, the Arabs discovered the Berber trade routes that cross the Sahara desert to trade with, among others, Most are captives from animist peoples further The slaves are sold to Tuareg caravans that There, the survivors are sold in markets to The majority of slaves are women who become Owning a slave raises the prestige of a family, so demand increases and the Trans-Saharan slave trade grows. It's estimated that between 3.5 and 7 million To the north of the Mediterranean basin, the i.e., young European Christian slaves, who are converted to Islam and then trained for war to serve the Sultan. Finally, the Italian republics control the Genoa and Venice compete for the profitable in particular by establishing trading posts in the Crimea, from where Slavic and Caucasian captives are coming. All the way to the west of Europe, Portugal a new, more maneuverable ship to begin explorations After discovering the Akan people, who own the Portuguese navigators discover an uninhabited island that they name Sao Tome. In 1483, they reach the Kingdom of Kongo, Portugal provides European goods, such as These are either taken to the Iberian Peninsula, or sold to Portuguese settlers where the climate allows for the cultivation of sugarcane, sugar being then a rare and expensive product, highly prized in Europe. Slaves, gold, sugar, and spices coming from and in less than a century, Lisbon becomes the richest city in Europe. Further east, the Ottoman Empire, which had In the Black Sea, the Crimean Tatars provide All around the Mediterranean basin, Catholics Captured Muslims end up as oarsmen on Catholic while pirates from North Africa organize raids, also into the Atlantic Ocean, to seize Christians, who end up in their slave markets. In 1595 in Sao Tome, the slaves, who are Portugal regains control, but the country is now giving more interest to the lands it controls in the Americas, where 300,000 slaves have already been sent to work in the cultivation of sugar cane. Western European countries with access to and set up a globalized slave trade The Netherlands, England and then France, Their ships are loaded with European handicrafts, They leave for the African coasts to exchange The latter are either prisoners of war or Hundreds of slaves are crammed into the holds for voyages to America that last several months. The majority end up in Brazil and the Caribbean, but also for coffee, cotton, and tobacco. The large European landowners, called planters, The ships then return to Europe to sell the The companies make large profits and organize Western Europe is rapidly getting richer at the expense of the labor force of Africa and the cultivable land of America. The European states, to ensure their profits, In Europe, the refining of sugar and the high while the sudden abundance of American products making them accessible to a larger portion of the In Africa, the demand for slaves becomes so leading to wars for control of the trade. Kidnappings are organized further and further sometimes resulting in the taking of entire villages, which pass from hand to hand, to end up on European ships. Finally, in America, the black population Those who manage to flee are called Maroons. They form communities in remote and difficult For the European powers, the competition for which provokes wars. At the end of the Seven Years' War, France cedes its North American colonies to Great Britain and to Spain, but keeps - at all costs - most of its sugar islands. In 1781, the British ship Zong, recently captured leaves the coast of Africa with 442 slaves on board, twice as many as its capacity. After two months of sailing, the ship reaches But the crew confuses the island with Saint-Domingue 500 km further on, the captain understands as it would take more than 10 days to sail back, and the ship, which had not made any stopover to restock and renew its stores, no longer has enough drinking water to last that long. The crew decides then to throw 132 slaves, Only 208 slaves arrive in Jamaica. The company that organized the expedition turns to its insurance company for compensation, but the latter refuses, and a trial begins in London. The case is followed and has an impact on The Society for Effecting the Abolition of and, despite its still weak influence, it obtains the first In France, too, the first abolitionist movements notably with the foundation of the Society of the Friends of the Blacks. But their impact is still weak in the face Until now, approximately 7,700,000 African Great Britain and France dominate this market. In the Caribbean, the French colony of Saint-Domingue, where half a million slaves work, is now the world's leading exporter of sugar and coffee, making it the most prosperous. In 1789, the French Revolution takes place. In the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, it is written that men are born and remain free and equal in rights. In Saint-Domingue, these words resonate with A French civil commissioner is sent to restore He proclaims the emancipation of the slaves, obtaining their military support in the middle of the war against Great Britain and Spain. The following year, in Paris, slavery is officially But in 1802, Napoleon, who had seized power, re-establishes slavery, and tries to regain control of Saint-Domingue by sending an army, but the latter is defeated. On January 1, 1804, the Republic of Haiti proclaims its independence. It is the only republic to emerge from a revolt However, the new country will have to pay a heavy price to France, which would weaken it economically. After having transported about 2,750,000 slaves, but not yet slavery, which remains The country now uses its influence to put a global end to the slave trade. In 1815, after the fall of Napoleon, the European The United Kingdom obtains a commitment from But in reality, it would take several decades Brazil resists and continues the massive importation Brazilian ships go directly to Africa to fetch In 1833, the United Kingdom abolishes slavery From then on, the country relies on the industrial The invention of the steam engine increases The textile industry explodes, increasing the demand for cotton. In the United States, slaves living near the coast are moved all along the Mississippi River to work in cotton production. In addition, a U.S. company, after buying land in Africa, creates Liberia to organize the return of freed blacks. In 1847, Liberia gains its independence and to the detriment of the indigenous populations. In 1848, France abolishes slavery in its turn. About 250,000 slaves are freed. To prevent the planters from seceding, the and facilitating the importation of Finally, in the United States, after the Civil slavery is abolished here too. But in all the former slave territories, the They are often confined to ghettos, controlled, and in many cases continue to be exploited without rights or income. Zanzibar is the last major slave trading port. Swahili caravans set out to raid the African The captives are then sent mainly to the plantations In 1873, the United Kingdom obtains the end And in 1888, Brazil is the last American country In 1885, the European powers meet in Berlin and to regulate colonization, each committing itself The Belgian king Leopold II obtains as his personal possession a huge territory in the heart of the continent. To consolidate his power, he receives the whom he appoints governor of The population is subjected to a tax in kind, The population has to mainly produce rubber, which is in great demand with the booming of bicycles and the invention of the automobile. The immense territory is shared with private The population is under pressure to produce and those who don't meet the quotas are massacred or mutilated. In 1908, under international pressure, Leopold which puts a direct end to these methods. In China, slavery is still legal and is facilitated But under Western pressure, the country finally In 1930 in the USSR, the Gulag administration Political opponents, minorities, and rich peasants are locked up and forced to work in remote and hostile areas to build railroads, canals, or exploit resources such as coal or minerals. Over 10 years, about 7 million men are locked During the Second World War, the Nazis build which are intended to make Jews and political The Empire of Japan also organizes the forced mainly Chinese in Manchukuo, or Indonesians on the island of Java. After WWII, the Gulf States abolish slavery But they keep a law that allows employers in order to control them and prevent them In 1981, Mauritania becomes the last country which is still deeply rooted in the culture. With some ethnic groups enslaved for generations, In 1992, Pakistan becomes the last country who were working for powerful landowners. In North Korea, prisoners from the Korean are exploited in forced labor camps. In addition, the country exports its slave labor around the world, mainly to labor camps in Russia and China, which brings in a lot of money. In 2017, the country successfully tests an intercontinental ballistic missile, directly threatening the United States. In retaliation, the UN imposes new sanctions, In October 2018, China acknowledges the existence where part of the Muslim Uyghur population is locked Some camps are accused of organizing forced In 2021, according to the latest estimates there are about 50 million slaves in the world, 21.3 million are victims of forced labor, while 22 million people, mostly women, are victims which is considered a form of sexual and domestic slavery. Finally, 6.3 million people, again mainly In total, women represent about 70% of the