Let me show you something. (Video) Girl: Okay, that's a cat The boy is petting the elephant. Those are people That's a big airplane. Fei-Fei Li: This is describing what she sees She might still have a lot but she's already an expert to make sense of what she sees. Our society is more We send people to the moon, or customize radio stations Yet, our most advanced still struggle at this task. So I'm here today on the latest advances one of the most frontier technologies in computer science. Yes, we have prototyped cars but without smart vision, between a crumpled paper bag and a rock that size, We have made fabulous megapixel cameras, but we have not delivered Drones can fly over massive land, but don't have enough vision technology to help us to track Security cameras are everywhere, but they do not alert us when a child Photos and videos are becoming They're being generated at a pace or teams of humans, could hope to view, and you and I are contributing Yet our most advanced software and managing this enormous content. So in other words, we're very much blind, because our smartest &quot;Why is this so hard?&quot; you may ask. Cameras can take pictures like this one by converting lights into known as pixels, but these are just lifeless numbers. They do not carry meaning in themselves. Just like to hear is not to take pictures is not and by seeing, In fact, it took Mother Nature to do this task, and much of that effort went into developing the visual not the eyes themselves. So vision begins with the eyes, but it truly takes place in the brain. So for 15 years now, starting and then leading Stanford's Vision Lab, I've been working with my mentors, to teach computers to see. Our research field is called It's part of the general field So ultimately, we want to teach naming objects, identifying people, understanding relations, emotions, You and I weave together entire stories the moment we lay our gaze on them. The first step towards this goal the building block of the visual world. In its simplest terms, as showing the computers of a particular object, let's say cats, and designing a model that learns How hard can this be? After all, a cat is just and this is what we did We'd tell the computer algorithm that a cat has a round face, two pointy ears, and a long tail, and that looked all fine. But what about this cat? (Laughter) It's all curled up. Now you have to add another shape But what if cats are hidden? What about these silly cats? Now you get my point. Even something as simple can present an infinite number and that's just one object. So about eight years ago, a very simple and profound observation No one tells a child how to see, especially in the early years. They learn this through If you consider a child's eyes as a pair of biological cameras, they take one picture the average time an eye movement is made. So by age three, a child would have seen of the real world. That's a lot of training examples. So instead of focusing solely my insight was to give the algorithms that a child was given through experiences in both quantity and quality. Once we know this, we knew we needed to collect a data set that has far more images perhaps thousands of times more, and together with Professor we launched the ImageNet project in 2007. Luckily, we didn't have to mount and wait for many years. We went to the Internet, the biggest treasure trove of pictures We downloaded nearly a billion images and used crowdsourcing technology to help us to label these images. At its peak, ImageNet was one of of the Amazon Mechanical Turk workers: together, almost 50,000 workers from 167 countries around the world helped us to clean, sort and label nearly a billion candidate images. That was how much effort it took to capture even a fraction a child's mind takes in In hindsight, this idea of using big data to train computer algorithms but back in 2007, it was not so obvious. We were fairly alone on this journey Some very friendly colleagues advised me and we were constantly struggling Once, I even joked to my graduate students that I would just reopen After all, that's how I funded So we carried on. In 2009, the ImageNet project delivered a database of 15 million images across 22,000 classes organized by everyday English words. In both quantity and quality, this was an unprecedented scale. As an example, in the case of cats, we have more than 62,000 cats of all kinds of looks and poses and across all species We were thrilled and we wanted the whole research world so in the TED fashion, to the worldwide (Applause) Now that we have the data we're ready to come back As it turned out, the wealth was a perfect match to a particular class called convolutional neural network, pioneered by Kunihiko Fukushima, back in the 1970s and '80s. Just like the brain consists a basic operating unit in a neural network is a neuron-like node. It takes input from other nodes and sends output to others. Moreover, these hundreds of thousands are organized in hierarchical layers, also similar to the brain. In a typical neural network we use it has 24 million nodes, 140 million parameters, and 15 billion connections. That's an enormous model. Powered by the massive data from ImageNet and the modern CPUs and GPUs the convolutional neural network blossomed in a way that no one expected. It became the winning architecture to generate exciting new results This is a computer telling us this picture contains a cat and where the cat is. Of course there are more things than cats, so here's a computer algorithm telling us the picture contains a dog, a person, and a small kite or a picture of very busy things like a man, a skateboard, Sometimes, when the computer we have taught it to be smart enough to give us a safe answer just like we would do, but other times our computer algorithm what exactly the objects are, like the make, model, year of the cars. We applied this algorithm to millions across hundreds of American cities, and we have learned something first, it confirmed our common wisdom that car prices correlate very well with household incomes. But surprisingly, car prices with crime rates in cities, or voting patterns by zip codes. So wait a minute. Is that it? Has the computer already matched Not so fast. So far, we have just taught This is like a small child It's an incredible accomplishment, but it's only the first step. Soon, another developmental and children begin So instead of saying you already heard the little girl So to teach a computer the marriage between big data has to take another step. Now, the computer has to learn as well as natural language sentences generated by humans. Just like the brain integrates we developed a model like visual snippets with words and phrases in sentences. About four months ago, we finally tied all this together and produced one of the first that is capable of generating when it sees a picture for the first time. Now, I'm ready to show you when it sees the picture that the little girl saw (Video) Computer: A man is standing A large airplane sitting on top FFL: Of course, we're still working hard and it still has a lot to learn. (Applause) And the computer still makes mistakes. (Video) Computer: A cat lying FFL: So of course, when it sees it thinks everything (Video) Computer: A young boy (Laughter) FFL: Or, if it hasn't seen a toothbrush, (Video) Computer: A man riding a horse (Laughter) FFL: We haven't taught Art 101 (Video) Computer: A zebra standing FFL: And it hasn't learned to appreciate like you and I do. So it has been a long journey. To get from age zero to three was hard. The real challenge is to go Let me remind you with this picture So far, we have taught or even tell us a simple story (Video) Computer: A person sitting FFL: But there's so much more than just a person and a cake. What the computer doesn't see that's only served during Easter time. The boy is wearing his favorite t-shirt given to him as a gift by his father and you and I can all tell how happy he is and what's exactly on his mind This is my son Leo. On my quest for visual intelligence, I think of Leo constantly and the future world he will live in. When machines can see, doctors and nurses will have to help them to diagnose Cars will run smarter Robots, not just humans, will help us to brave the disaster zones We will discover new species, and explore unseen frontiers Little by little, we're giving sight First, we teach them to see. Then, they help us to see better. For the first time, human eyes pondering and exploring our world. We will not only use the machines we will also collaborate with them This is my quest: to give computers visual intelligence and to create a better future Thank you. (Applause)