Crowds. Constant queuing. Overpriced cafes. Cable cars and even a toboggan ride. Yet this is not a theme park. This is the Mutianyu section of the Great An estimated 5 million people visit this stretch most popular section for tourists. It's busy, it's noisy and it feels quite It doesn't have to be like this. The Great Wall of China has been on my bucket It is incredible up here. But at over 21,000 kilometres long, it's Should you visit a restored or ruined section? An easily accessible or a remote section? Full on forest on top of the Great Wall of We travelled out to three very different sections All with their own unique strengths and obstacles. In search of the best way to experience this My name is Ryan and this is Emma and welcome Adventures China Series. Good morning, welcome to Beijing. We just left our very cool hostel in the city to get on a bus to see the Great Wall for So very very exciting. Today we're heading to a section of the Which is slightly further away than some of It's also only half restored, so we should of the wall and stuff that looks quite new. Just starting to get our first glimpses of The bus drops you off at sort of a service to be a free shuttle bus but it wasn't there We paid 40 Yuan each which is way too much, so it had to do. Although it has all of the same amenities was pretty empty. Being that slightly further away from the Cosy. As we started climbing up in the cable car, This is something I've wanted to do since Mickey Mouse for the first time, but in wall I'm having a weird outer body experience We're at the Great Wall. This first part of the wall off the cable easy to walk on but when you compare it to the wall that are much nearer Beijing, there's You can barely get anywhere. Then you come here and there's only a handful. So the further we walk on, the more wild it Jinshanling is also great for some longer section called Simitai and it takes between It just goes on and on and on and on. After our compulsory photo shoot with Chinese chuffed. We found the shuttle bus this time. But we couldn't help but crave something A bit more raw, a little more wild. Good morning, it's another day in Beijing part of the wall. We're just heading to the train station I've always had a bit of an Indiana Jones gems. So we booked a night with the Chen family, outside of Beijing. And most importantly, they have access to wall. Now, I know what you're thinking, this does hidden gem and check out what happens when seating. That was insane. This is Beijing's S2 tourist train that of the Great Wall, Badaling. But thankfully we were not going there. We were staying on one more stop to a quieter From the train station we were picked up by at their home. The village they live in is incredibly small the best dog I have ever seen. We arrived at the Chen family farm and they dropped at the trail head ready to climb up We're going to be hiking a section called about 4 hours and its supposed to be a very This section of the wall is no joke, it's sure if its entirely legal to visit. This is very different from the last steps There's barely a path at all. Right, up we go. So we just made it to the first watchtower There's just sections of dense forest. You'll be on crumbling parts of wall and Completely overgrown. Spiderweb! Get off! I don't think many people come here at all. We were looking for wild, this is pretty wild. You can see how the wall snakes right along You okay? Why are we going down to go up? That's my favourite kind of way. Jesus. I have mentioned this already on this trip So why we chose to do one of the most demanding Emma has fallen over twice already. Are you ok?... War wound. I'm hoping these little things are markers not remains of the last people that came here. Now this. Just when we thought it was going to get easier, This looks like a real staircase. Steps! I never thought I would be so happy to see From this, to this. From what I understand, this is still part only the top here has been restored and everything We've been walking for a couple of hours I know we've been saying that a lot on this there's nobody around. But there's really nobody around here. The cloud is really setting in now, can't This is why they call it the Hunchback Curve, twists around the top of the mountain. It almost doubles back on itself. There's no more words to describe this place, It's a very special moment this. You can be like Michael Jackson here. Wait wait wait, ready? It goes down which is what we're doing now. To 2 towers. We've been looking for 2 towers in the distance finally seen them just up ahead. The 2 towers! Are you filming so you can get my death on Yeah for insurance purposes. Hikers! Yeah! It would be nice to stay and watch some more minute at least walk back to the farm. So, we don't really want to do that in the Reunion. He's so cute. Which takes us back to where this film started. This isnt even a busy day, from what I've But its a very different vibe from the last The restoration is really impressive, the that kind of Disneyland feel, where everything much of the character that made the other You know there's 2 cable cars, a toboggan had on the last couple of days. It's just different. My advice would be to avoid Badaling and Mutianyu If you want that perfect balance of easy access, Jinshanling is great. It's restored, it's ruined, you can walk But if you want something more than just a Take the wild route and I promise it will be Now then, I suppose there's only one way I never thought I would be saying this but China. That was pretty fun. Why is that at the Great Wall?