Welcome to 99Bitcoins.com. I'm Nate Martin and I'll be your guide Bitcoin Whiteboard Tuesday. We're going to cover a lot of topics such as Bitcoin mining, Bitcoin wallets, Today we're going to start from scratch and answer the third most searched term If you're worried that and use a lot of complicated words, don't. Here at 99Bitcoins so even if you have you'll be able to understand everything. By the end of this course, you'll know more about Bitcoin than 99% of the population. So let's get started... Before we talk about Bitcoin I want to take a moment What is money exactly? At its core, money represents value. If I do some work for you, you give me money in exchange for I can then use that money from someone else in the future. Throughout history, and people used a lot of Salt, wheat, shells and of course gold have all been used as However, in order for something people have to trust that and will stay valuable redeem that value in the future. Up until a hundred years ago or so we always trusted in someTHING However something happened and we've changed our trust model from trusting someTHING Let me explain. Over time, people found it to walk around the world or other forms of money, Here's how it worked: a bank or government would offer to take let's say worth $1000, and in return, that bank would which we call bills, Not only were these pieces of paper but you could spend a dollar and not have to cut your gold bar And if you wanted your gold back, you simply took $1000 in bills to redeem them for in this case that gold bar, And so, paper began its use as money as an instrument of practicality However as time progressed, this bond between the paper receipt Now, to explain the path that is extremely complex, governments told their people that the government itself would be liable Basically we all said "let's just forget about gold So people continued to trade with receipts that are backed by And why did that continue to work? Well, because of trust. Even though there is no actual commodity people trusted the government Fiat is a Latin word that means "by decree". Meaning the dollars, or euros have value because It's what is known as "legal tender" - coins or banknotes if offered as payment. So the value of today's money actually comes from a legal status in this case, the government. And so the trust model has changed, from trusting someTHING in this case, the government. Fiat money has two main drawbacks: 1. It is centralized: You have a central authority In this case the government And two, it is not limited by quantity: The government or central bank whenever needed and inflate The problem with printing money is that because you're flooding the market the value of each dollar drops, When you see prices rising it's not necessarily that the purchasing power of You need more dollars to buy something Once fiat money was in place, the move to digital money We already have a central authority so why not make money mostly digital and let that authority Today we mainly use credit cards, and others forms of digital money. The amount of physical money and is getting smaller So if money today is digital, I mean, if I have a file what's to stop me from and having a million dollars? This is called the "double spend problem". The solution that banks use today is they keep a ledger on their computer Everyone has an account and this ledger keeps We all trust the bank and so the solution is centralized You may not know this, but there were many attempts to create however none were successful without a central authority. Whenever you give a anyone control you're giving them enormous power The first issue is corruption; power corrupts, and absolute power When banks have a mandate they basically control which gives them A small example of how power corrupts can be seen in the Wells Fargo's scandal where employees secretly created millions of unauthorized in order to inflate without their customers The second issue of a centralised If the central authority's interest there may be a case of For example, printing a lot of money in order to save a certain bank as what happened in 2008. The problem with printing it causes inflation and basically One extreme example where the government has printed and the value of it that people are no longer counting money The last issue is control. You are basically giving away to the government or bank. At any point in time the government can decide to and deny you access to your funds. Even if you use only cold hard cash the government can cancel as was done in India a few years back. This was the state of things until 2009. Creating an alternative to seemed like a lost cause. But then everything changed.... In October 2008 a document was published online The document, also called a whitepaper, suggested a way of creating a system for a decentralised currency This system claimed to create the double spend problem At its core Bitcoin is a transparent ledger but what does this confusing phrase Well, let's compare Bitcoin to the bank. Since most money today the bank basically manages its own ledger However the bank's ledger and it is stored on You can't sneak a peek and only the bank has Bitcoin on the other hand At any point in time and see all of the transactions The only thing you can't figure out is who owns these balances This means Bitcoin is pseudo-anonymous; everything is open, but you still can't tell Let's explain this with an example. You can see on your screen We can see that sent 10,000 Bitcoins in May of 2010. This specific transaction that was ever made with Bitcoin and it was used to buy 2 pizzas Laszlo published a post back in 2010 asking for someone to sell him 2 pizzas Well, someone did, is worth well over Bitcoin is also decentralized; there's no one computer With Bitcoin, every computer is also keeping a copy of the ledger, So if you want to take down the system you'll have to take down which are keeping a copy Like most money today, This means there's nothing physical There are no actual coins, there are only rows of When you "own" Bitcoin it means that you own a specific Bitcoin address record and send funds from it So what does all of this mean? Why is Bitcoin such big news? Well for the first time since we now have an alternative to Bitcoin is a form of money that Think about the time before the Internet, how centralized Basically if you wanted information you could get it from a few major players like the New York Times, and others like them. Today, thanks to the Internet, and you can communicate from around the world Bitcoin is the Internet of money and it's offering Bitcoin has several advantages First, it gives you complete control With Bitcoin, you and you alone How you actually do this No government or bank or confiscate your holdings. Bitcoin also cuts a lot of the middlemen This means that in many cases Bitcoin is cheaper to use than Also, unlike fiat currencies, Bitcoin was designed to be this means you can add additional and turn it into "smart money", Finally, Bitcoin opens up 2.5 billion people around the world who don't have access to These people are unbanked because of where they leave However, today, with a mobile phone they can start trading using Bitcoin, Today there are several merchants You can order a flight or book a hotel There are even Bitcoin debit cards that allow you to pay at almost However the road toward acceptance is still a long one. As we continue in this video series, we will break down exactly We will learn about Bitcoin mining, and much more. The revolution of money began in 2009 and these days we are seeing it You may still have some questions. If so, just leave them And if you're watching this video on YouTube and enjoy what you've seen, don't forget to hit the like button. Then, make sure to subscribe for notifications about new episodes. Thanks for joining me here at the Whiteboard. For 99Bitcoins.com, I'm Nate Martin,