Third day in North Korea I have almost nothing visited because of yesterday's accident But the guides/guardians promised to let me forget the bad day by giving me an unforgettable tour of the capital They requested in particular to be as elegant as possible in order to visit the Kumsusan Memorial Palace I have nothing but a wrinkled shirt in my backpack, I hope it will be fine Here they are! Good morning! What do you think? elegant enough? Yes! What...? don't worry I am sorry that I am filming everything but it's a memory for me everything is new so it's like if you go...you know what's Disneyland? No !?! Dis...what? Dis... And this is me giving stupid examples forgetting that they have never left the country and they have no idea what is outside the borders of their country Wow! look! nice! They just come to the street and do some kind of activities to activate the people to do more work yes Nice! To give energy to the people Yes, yes.. To encourage people to do more work also they wish them good success in their work in our country soldiers do all kind of work they also defend the country, but not only defend the country they also do some construction and.. they play a very big role in the social construction so, for example they build many high buildings like you just saw some high building in the Mirae Scientists Street Yes... Like this, for example... They just built that kind of high building in 20 days or 30 days Ok stop! For the record, she is referring to these buildings All these couloured buildings have been built in less than 30 days but let's go on What do you know about Korea exactly? Mmmm... Little Peppe, don't forget that you have to go home It's... it's a very complicated question I know that you are very closed of course Yes... And you are developing Yes.. you are developing but I don't know much because we do not receive so many news about you as I think you do not receive so many news about us Right? Yes So... I am ready to discover everything about your country I did not know that you can build buildings in one month Stupid question: is it possible to meet the Leader? Hahah...Impossible! Impossible! Yeah... For North Koreans it's the most glorious thing to meet our Leader The best day of your life! Of course! I noticed that there are always the pictures of his grand-father and his father but there are no pictures of him around Even though this supreme leader...current leader Kim-Jong Un, he's the Leader he does't allow us to have his portrait already, or badge.. Why? Because President Kim-Il Sung and Chairman Kim-Jong Il are the eternal President and the eternal Chairman Ok, let me explain you more in detail you should know that North Korea is the only &quot;necrocrazy&quot; in the world what does this mean? it means that in this country the current President is a dead person namely the founder of the nation Kim Il-Sung at his death, the reins of the country passed to his son, Kim Jong-il who became the country Chairman and he still is, although he passed away in 2011 so making the whole country cry his son Kim Jong-Un, that we all know today is the ultimate leader of the country and the only chef of the party Here the Kim dynasty What's this one, Choe? That one? Yeah International Exhibition Hall Ah...here is where there all the gifts? Yes! presented to the great leaders of our country Wow How many gifts inside? If you go inside you can see with your own eyes Ok! There are over 140 rooms inside wow...140 rooms.. Yes! So from now on I cannot film anymore yes To bring you with me inside the palace I found this very old video which will help me to describe what I've seen with my eyes The huge entrance door leads to a bright marble corridor which leads to the mean room where there are the gifts of the most important authorities in the world in front of every gift there is a plate with the delivery date and the name of the person bringing the present the guide immediately emphasises the great number of gifts received by all the political leaders of the world As to highlight the world's admiration and support for North Korea Actually, I learned that the Protocol of North Korea imposes and determines a gift exchange for every institutional visit So if you are visiting North Korea you are obliged to bring a gift to the leader Just to let you understand the grandness of the palace in a room there are the bulletproof train cars that Stalin and Mao Zedong offered to Kim Il-sung at his take-over the Italians chose a big classic: Murano glass and that's it The gifts that impressed me the most are those of Dennis Rodman un former NBA champion who surprisingly became Kim Jong-un's best friend such a close friend to perform for him at his birthday Among the thousands of gifts, the guide insisted on this one in particular and seeing my skeptical face, she asked for my opinion don't ask me why but, in a moment of pure honesty, I said that I don't like stuffed animal and I would not put it in my closet either let's say that...they didn't take it really well There is a crocodile who brings a plate with glasses it's a real crocodile and everyone likes it but..not me no, not that much Next stop? Next stop is Pohyon temple Close to the International Friendship Exhibition there is also a Buddhist temple dating back to 1000 years ago actually, with the dictatorship it became more a touristic attraction than a place of worship every religion is a threat to the regime which represses with violence every kind of devotion except one So usually Korean people don't believe in anything? We believe in JUCHE I know, my friends, I never heard about this before either but in North Korea everything turns around the idea of JUCHE a kind of anthropocentric philosophy created by the founder of the nation Kim Il-sung JUCHE is a true religion for North Korean people to summarise in a sentence which is applicable to any domain of their life, it means: &quot;every man is the creator of his own destiny&quot; I am leaving some links in the description because it is a very interesting subject THE MOST LUXURIOUS HOTEL IN NORTH KOREA Thank you! Ok, this is super weird, the restaurant is empty completely empty, no one is there and I am eating alone here, because my guides and driver went to eat in another room This is the starter with all the guests keeping me company unbelievable! I asked why and they told me that starting from tonight we are going to eat together so...I didn't understand why! this is a pork soup some eggs and seaweed here I am eating some vegetables seasoned with something... fried fish and boiled vegetables with bread Oh my God, I have such a performance anxiety! There is a waitress, let's call her that who keeps controlling every movement I do if she doesn't look at me directly, she does it through the mirror I am eating with such an anxiety that... Watch out what's going to happen now Potatoes Wow..that's it? I'm full after this... Yes ...finished? Yes, yes Ok, perfect thank you! What's your name? Giuseppe Giuseppe?! Yes! [says her name] Yes Nice to meet you Yeah, nice to meet you I am learning English Can you teach me English? Can you...? teach me... Yes... ...English? English? Yes! What do you want to learn? Everything! for example... what is this? Flower! Flower... What is this? Plate! Plate... Plate Plate... Yes... What is this? GoPro camera! Camera... Oh yes... Thank you! You're welcome! This was quite unbelievable she asked me to teach her some English and she asked me to pronounce the names of everything that was on the table to get to...my GoPro! and when I said that it was a camera she left Wow I mean...she wanted to know what it was but she didn't dare asking directly she made me say the names of all the things that were on the table I am going to clean the plate with some bread even in North Korea The most chemical thing I've ever eaten in my life Of course, today the driver was different after yesterday's accident we were running at 2 km/h we're are about to go into the Kumsusan -Palace of the Sun which is the mausoleum where they keep the bodies of past leaders Kim Jong-Un's father and grand-father it's a very particular moment because even my guides became more serious I can't wait to see what's inside How many times did you come here already? already tens of times Yeah? Always a great emotion? For the Korean people meeting their great leaders is the most glorious thing and today I am meeting my great leaders so I made up my mind to work harder and harder in the future What are they doing? Taking a picture Like a group picture? Yeah Here too it was forbidden to take pictures or videos so I am going to explain what I saw through some archive images To get inside the mausoleum we had to be led by an escalator for 15 minutes All the necessary time for guides to explain to me how to behave inside the mausoleum The rules were very easy: never put your hands in your pockets never cross your arms bend down 45 degrees in front of the statues of the leaders and most importantly in front of their bodies impressive guys, they were perfectly preserved like if they were sleeping in addition to the bodies, inside the mausoleum there were as well all the most valuable belongings of the two leaders some of the very small objects were: a collection of cars two trains and a yacht! when I asked my guides/gardians how they managed to bring a yacht inside the mausoleum the answer was very easy:: &quot;Korean people can do everything&quot; Wow, we've just visited the palace in which the bodies are preserved the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun is the most majestic palace I've ever seen in my life I'm like...I'm really really impressed Inside the palace there was a yacht There was a.... who was the owner of the yacht? Kim-Jong...Il? Yeah! Yeah...wow! I saw so many people crying when they saw the body of the leaders what was your feeling? We, the Koreans, we just respect our leaders so we also follow them as fathers not only the President or the leader of the country real fathers, we just follow them as real fathers so... how do you feel when your father died? You told me something that is very interesting Not everybody can go there Like, you go there only if you work hard, if you really deserve it so, for instance, you can go there with me because you worked hard in the past, and you can come with me that's correct Yes for example... if I am a farmer... if I did lot of work for the country especially in autumn... if I harvest lots of grains in comparaison with the others then we have the special honour to visit the Kumsusan Palais of the Sun So... those who are very good at their job and make a good contribution to the country they have a chance to visit the palace Kim, what do you think about death? what do you think there is after death? I don't think that our President and our General passed away we always bring their smile in our minds whenever we feel very tired we always think of them and we try very hard to... realise their ideas And here we are this is the moment when my relation with the guides/gardians starts to crack inexorably maybe they cared too much about that stuffed crocodile or maybe I went too far with all my questions anyway, everything changed starting from here In the next episode Choe, is this a restaurant? Yeah! Why there are....? Now or never, let's see if I can make it because yesterday they were they were a little bit annoyed with all my filming so... ok... what is happiness for you?