Sunday, June 18th, 1815. Napoleon's armies are in rout. The Seventh Coalition that rose against the of Europe have ended Napoleon's stubborn attempts All is lost for the perfectly-normal-sized by his enemies that he was ever abnormally Then, suddenly from the thick, hazy clouds the battlefield, comes a high pitch whine A massive 120mm gun barrel pokes out of the armored body. The Seventh Coalition forces break out in pure American freedom roars onto the battlefield. It's the battle that would shape the future greatest military leaders- only this time, back for it's invaluable aid in winning the War by coming to its aid. That's right fellow Americans, we owe everything back... for like the third time in two centuries. The Battle of Waterloo is one of most important the whole world would be eating croissants France would've been an unstoppable superpower. Given how the 20th century would shape up world would've been preferable to the one The stage was set when Napoleon escaped his even if you kill millions of people and try rich, the worst you'll get is an exile to However, Napoleon hadn't quite given up on British who thought that was "a bit rude even more isolated, decidedly less paradise-y When Napoleon got wind of this, he escaped nobody in Europe thought it was a problem France had moved on from Napoleon though, throne. This didn't mean that Napoleon wasn't still his failed military conquest that ended in fields of Russia. There were plenty of French people who still landed on french soil at Golfe-Juan and headed He was quickly intercepted by the 5th Regiment capture him, only for Napoleon to pull an With the soldiers of the regiment bearing alone, dismounted his horse, and then threw Kill your Emperor, if you wish." The soldiers of the 5th regiment carefully "We tried taking over the world once before, and the nation is divided- screw it, Vive Now Napoleon had a proper army, and as he his rank. Louis XVIII was forced to flee to Belgium soon after at the Congress of Vienna, Great decided they'd had about enough of Napoleon's Napoleon though had a brilliant plan- he would nearly four to one. Realizing the disadvantage he would be at their forces, he marched into modern-day Belgium and kick ass, and they'd just run out of waffles. His goal was to drive the British back into one fell swoop, significantly leveling the sympathizers in Belgium to launch a revolt. After initial skirmishes with the Prussians, Unfortunately for Napoleon, stubborn British a significant amount of his forces. The British, led by the future Duke of Wellington- to command the anti-Napoleon army- withstood The Prussians, in a slight disarray after began to arrive and attacked the flanks of the British. As evening approached, Napoleon sent the best the Emperor would not protect this time (don't Prussian forces broke through the right flank, route Napoleon's army, putting an end once The friendship between the German and British in war again. But that's in the old, decidedly less metal didn't send an Abrams main battle tank back fateful battle. Arriving through a time portal with the crackling ton monster is America's latest and greatest- package. Originally designed to crush Soviet armor most- if not the most- impressive combat records Nine Abrams have been destroyed to date, seven when they became stuck in order to prevent The only tank in the world that compares is share a whole lot of DNA thanks to shared But the Abrams has a much more exhaustive freedom, and bringing freedom to places that With three decades of combat experience under is frankly embarrassing, and prompted a panic Soviet made tanks in Desert Storm. Protecting the Abrams is a composite armor best-kept secrets. Rather than solid plates of armor, the Abrams plates, and ceramics to shatter, dissipate, The armor is so good, that an Abrams' front from other Abrams' infamous silver bullet friendly fire incidents. On the offense, the Abrams packs a 120mm smoothbore and justice for all. To deal with lightly armored vehicles or infantry, coaxial 7.62mm machine gun, as well as a .50 and very accidentally saw a camel in two- as fact. It's Honeywell AGT1500 turbine engine has jet's engine than the one in your crappy second-hand This monster delivers 1500 horsepower of pure, it to move the nearly 74 ton monster around. Despite its size though, the Abrams floats move at 45 miles per hour (72 km/h) on roads to remove the governor and the first sergeant Facing off against a single M1 is the full army, a combined total of between 118,000 British soldiers at the time were equipped at the time- and armed with a variety of weapons. The infantry were equipped with muzzle-loading four shots a minute for well-trained and disciplined as a 73 ton monster from the future bears These muskets were more or less accurate up than the more- but were surprisingly deadly projectiles. A bayonet would be fitted to the muzzle of fighting, which would frequently erupt as and largely missing for hours on end. The British were equpped with 156 guns- or cannon. This monster of the day fired a nine pound formations, murdering or horribly mutilating a bowling alley. Because infantry of the day had to march and or they wouldn't hit the broadside of a barn effective and most armies rushed to close Both sides used case shot for closer range iron balls that would have a shotgun-like The British however had begun experimenting a flurry of much smaller iron balls over a To put things very mildly, there did not exist arsenal which could effectively damage, let An Abrams can survive a shot from a friendly energy in excess of 12 million joules, a figure century physicist. The only hope the British might have had would've have dented the Abrams exterior armor. What was on the battlefield at the time however the paint and potentially damage the turret-mounted In exchange, the Abrams can employ a variety The new, fifth generation Kinetic Energy cartridge, the best anti-tank round in the world- and the US military boasts about something, it's That was the deal the American public struck get to be the best at blowing things up. The Abrams also fires a variety of high explosive munitions or special obstacle-clearing munitions. Whether it's an enemy tank, small building, prank, bro" guys at the mall, there's no its 120mm cannon. However, perfect for this specific engagement for close-in protection from mass infantry Effective at a range between 200 to 500 meters, shower of tungsten at 4,626 feet per second 120mm cannon into the world's most nightmarish Lord Beef Wellington would be helpless to does have one key weakness: it only carries 900 rounds for each machine gun. This significantly limits its impact on a 100,000 troops. But even outnumbered, the Abrams has one final known as "just run everyone the hell over". With several hours worth of fuel, our time Prussian or British cavalry, and turn the In defense of the old red, white and blue- Abrams is an unstoppable monster. At least until it runs out of fuel, because is a thirsty boy. However, with the allied forces completely tank, there's a good chance that Napoleon the United Kingdom of the Netherlands. With fresh support and an ecstatic French Great Again, there's a good chance that Napoleon prior conquests- albeit this time with a more And all it would take for the modern world single time-traveling American Abrams tank. Now go check out The French Revolution In