[bright Hawaiian music] [Peter] Vernon, you're 81 years old? [Vernon] Yes. You grew up on the island, No, never left. This is the old pier. The ships used to come in here -The cargo for the island? -Right now you look down, you see stones. But me, I look down, I see food. I see opihi. I see black crabs. There actually food in the water. What did you do, Vernon? Were you a fisherman -I'm a heavy equipment operator. I run the crane, And you were 16 years old 17. -17? What was that like? Well mixed feelings. The real local people, you know, Lot of people said, &quot;You know, we gon' get money if we go into statehood.&quot; I look at life as you cannot stay the way you are all your life. That's why I tell everybody I believe in honoring but I also have new pages. Because if you don't have new pages you cannot deal with Because they'll break you. You know what I mean? They tougher than us, you know? And you cannot be like your grandfather. One tree that doesn't sway because these kids nowadays [Vernon] This is where -Out here? But only had one buildings. And then see all the condos on the hill? I helped build over there. -Oh wow, so you have Portuguese roots? My grandfather, he was 10 or 12 years old. He was a stowaway on the ship. His uncle put him in -A wooden barrel? -On the boat? And for one month and at night the uncle would take him out, let him go to the bathroom. During the day he because if he get caught and he not supposed to be on the ship. He's a stowaway. [Vernon] The childhood was hard My dad had to take jobs I remember my dad -Dollar an hour? Back what year? -Hmm. -50's, 60's? I'm a hunter-gatherer. I live off the mountain for 30 years. Never bought a piece of meat I used to hunt all over here wild pigs. All up here. I lived down here, -How much? I paid $60 every six months. But when before I come down here I never worried about food because &quot;Hey Vernon, take some fish.&quot; and then me, I'm not a taker. You know what I mean? They give me some fish, or if I get something I'm not the kind of guy that just go take. -I'll share with people, you know? Don't worry about these signs, This my friend's place right here. See that? That is taro. I've only been [garbled]. They wouldn't be ready yet. -[man in distance] How are you? I still kicking. How are you? Yeah, good. -How you doing? -Peter. -This is Kaipo. Okay, this guy here, he got a fascinating story. The guy that at the guy Ken Chow, this guy used to fish for Ken Chow. One day they'd hook up with this big fish. This big ahi. Ken Chow was whipping the team, and the rope had tangled. -Tangle his leg or head? -Neck. The rope had tangled around his neck. Like when slinky out of the basket rope. The loop, it gets around his neck, -The fish is dragging the guy. [Peter] How big is the fish? I say about 180, the biggest one That one was 150 pounds. This guy had put the knife jump in the water, -[Peter] And you saved the guy? -Yeah. -Did you grow up out here? -This same house? Right in this area, right here. You like ducks, Uncle? You want to help me with ducks? Ducks? You give away ducks? Oh boy, look at that. -[Kaipo] I got about 40. [Vernon] Oh, God. [Peter] Guys, let me ask you this, why does everyone have &quot;Private Property&quot; If you don't have the signs The hippies would start coming. Before you ask, Kaipo, Wide open. -You don't have to walk-- You don't have to walk on the road. -Because everybody gon' pick you up. -Everybody know everybody. Afterwards, when the hippies had come in and start coming in our yards they get everything They live close to the pavilion [Kaipo] They take fruits off the tree. -Okay, so that's why you have the signs? When did you start doing the signs? -Uncle Vernon, you gon' turn in? Uncle come see me, okay? Sorry, I'll come see you, Kaipo. Sorry. [laughs] [Peter] See ya, Kaipo. Sorry about that. Hey, how's it? [Vernon] That's one of the pluses I used to know everybody before, But now get more new people coming in Half the people nowadays... you know? But the ones that I used to know, [Peter] How do you feel Some is alright but what I cannot stand is when they come here from New York &quot;Oh, you cannot raise no chickens.&quot; &quot;You give money, We cannot. We have to raise the chickens. Peter, we don't have money What about our feelings, our culture? Some are good. Is it like 50/50? -I think so. And they contribute a lot to the island but some, [rooster crows] [Vernon] Now here like some This is Menehune fish pond. Okay? Now the story is this pond was created over night The Menehunes that nobody ever seen. -Oh. -And they come out at night. And they make Now they trying to restore it. You see the center, the black stuff? -Yep. -A wall over there from the early That's what the small... You know in the islands in Alaska -Okay. -Something like that? -Menehunes? [Vernon] Okay, now down here I had two friends down here. I would come down here, and the parents liked me I would take them, go pick guavas for we could get some And they had one sister he went jail couple times and whatnot. Real ugly looking guy. Always trying to hit on young girls. And he started calling her up One day I came over and she was crying. So I told her, She told me Joe Bucks had called her. She said, &quot;Every night he call me.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, when he call tonight She put him on the phone I told him, &quot;'Cause if I come looking for you He did hang up, But, you know? But that's like a reputation I had before. But I really never had to fight in school. I never had one fight in high school. You know why? Because when I was 13 years old by one gang. 12 to 15 people that had pile on my friend and nobody went to help him and I was the youngest one in the bunch and I went go help him. I never tell nobody I was 13 years old. The guy was way older than me. The guy they were beating up, He used to take me Lihue, give me ride. So I drag him out in the parking lot But when I looked back Thinking, &quot;Let's run! He never run, I stayed back and my father They rip your nose off Bust you up real bad, you know? [tire spinning] Start kicking me I think may as well get one shot in. All of a sudden I got together my feet and I went for kick one guy So I get a little bit like a hero. These guys actually respected me a lot, Try take off your belt. I tell you why. Just take off your belt -There's a guy behind us, huh? One of the guy that live on the land, -We're pretty far back in there. The houses are all gone. This is where my friends used to live and I used to come down here -What would you do down here? -Oh, go fishing, go hunting, go look for bottles. -Bottles? -Things get washed away the bottle float up on to the ground -Glass bottles? One of the bottles -Really? From pre-statehood, like way back? -Territorial Hawaii. Yeah. I got one bottle over a hundred years old. -Okay, you said when Hawaii became -Some people were against it? How do you feel about it now? -I think it was good for the islands. We wouldn't be where we are today because we wouldn't have chance to grow. Because we wouldn't be getting And I'm totally against the annexation. -Oh, okay. Maybe a silly question for you but I'm just trying to do you consider yourself American or do you feel like US is something else I'm an American. -I'm true-blooded American. I feel like God bless America. You know? You gon' notice the more... I don't know, You know what I mean? Like some guys... I got one neighbor that... I wanna ask you a question, What is it? -For me, it's half full. That's a positive way You know? But for him he say, I tell him no. But half empty means to be negative. Half full means to be positive. -Okay, what's that have to do with Well, what I'm getting back to And he b*tch to me about social security. But this guy never worked So he gets only $400 a month. You put in what you get. And I told him the government had pay you ten times over what you put in already. So what you b*tching about? You know? &quot;Oh no, the government told me I pay...&quot; Bullsh*t. You getting more than what you put in. Okay, this is the Rice monument over here. -Okay, this is beautiful. -Yeah. These trees are over a hundred years old. -Oh my God, it's like a fairytale. [Peter] Such an amazing feeling Perfect temperature, light breeze, peaceful. You just feel like a little participant You know what I love, Vernon? I feel very small and insignificant You know what I mean? You feel like... You feel like you're nothing really. -I have, yep. The Rice family own all this. -Who is the Rice family? They were missionaries before. Hawaiians gave them land Oh, I gotta get quick. Watch out. Hi. Right on. -Those are members of the family or... You pay for this, you see the slit -Okay, yeah. -So you can pay for a tour to go in there? You got the right one driving, you know? [both laughing] -She liked it, she thought that was funny. -[man greeting] -You guys doing okay? We see no trespassing, hands up. Perfect. -So where you guys going? -You know the monument at the top there? I helped with the monument. -Oh, for real? -What is your last name? I only get relations to Villatour, -Coberto? My wife was married to Coberto. -Probably family. Okay bra, have a good day. [Peter laughing] You're relatives? -Is that how it is here? But that's the thing, Peter, that I get You be good to people -Yeah. Don't need me I can [mumbles] Like how I say, but ever since I had that -Yeah. -I get all bust up, my brother came home. Came home in the night, got me up, got me up and told me I was the youngest one there Be good to people and only by reputation [bright Hawaiian music] [Vernon] These buildings now -All old buildings, yeah. -Now it's more of a tourist place, huh? -It's cool if I get a little bite to eat? -You're not hungry? [pop music playing] [Peter] Okay, great. -[Peter] Poke bowls... How you doing? -Musubi. -Deep fried spam? Is that a Hawaiian delicacy? Spam used to be a Hawaiian delicacy, -Okay. -I'm not a big Spam guy but-- -That is gourmet Spam? Okay. -It's popular here in Hawaii. [Peter] Oh, that's awesome. -All right, thank you. -Peter. Thanks Jeff, all the best. Let's give the musubi a try. [Vernon grunts] Nice, we got it. -You sure? You don't eat raw fish? Thank you though. Some of the best food -Yeah. I don't eat, you know? -I love good raw fish. -I grew up in Hawaii but my whole family -Mm-hmm. -Kind of grew up living differently. And don't worry about This truck is working truck, -All right. I'm gonna recommend this food for sure. Link down below in description if you're -Koloa. -Yeah, K-O-L-O-A. Amazing food in Koloa. [Vernon] Okay, now Get mix Hawaiians, and Japanese and the Japanese, Putting higher monuments The first people to come to Hawaii were the Chinese. -After the Polynesians, right? Hawaiians was here, you know? -Okay, Hawaiians here, Chinese... The king had offered Because they wanted So I met the original tunnel diggers, And how the Portuguese came was to go trade with England. He used to trade back and forth. And he'd look, &quot;Whoa.&quot; &quot;This climate So he'd offer them land. He would give them 20 acres, 30 acres, but they had to work the land for 10 years and then the land would be theirs. That's how the Portuguese people Then the Japanese started coming in. The last ones to come were the Filipinos and the Filipinos [waves crashing] The big one on the side used to shoot right across this road. Used to shoot a hundred feet high. Because of the way But the plantation and the spray would go on the cane. So they went there [Vernon] These were all They don't look like plantation homes but this was all plantation -Okay, so if you worked you were given a home to live in? -No, you rent. -You rent from them? And then once you stop working -Yeah, you gotta move out. If you go work -So it was really hard -Yeah, because medical. You had free medical with the plantation. My friend own a shop over here [Peter] That's a nice place. -This is old. This is original. -You eat taro chips? Okay, I will grab some. This guy make 'em right here. [Vernon speaking Hawaiian] [Vernon] Okay, okay. -How you doing, sir? Peter. -Nice to meet you. This is [Hawaiian] and this is the taro. -Oh, these look awesome. -No more grapefruit? I will buy these. [mumbles] Okay Dale, what is the total? -Take them. Not free, not a problem. -[Vernon] Okay Dale, thank you. -See you, sir. That's why I don't like come, -They won't take your money, huh? These look great. -They work hard, you know what I mean? You like the sweet potato? -Ah, I'm not gonna eat now. -My throat get a little bit scratchy. -You can bust it open. Try that. Good. Really good. [crunching] Mmm. -Okay, time's a wasting, let's go. It's like there's some spice in here, No need put belt. -Don't put the belt on? This is a different type of chip. These things I'm bringing you, -You would never find this place. -No way. -Mm-hmm. -See the roof? It's plantation house. Check his truck. -Is that a Model T truck? Like they did back... They sold Ford. -So some new blood coming in here. Some fresh paint, some old stuff. [Vernon] This is all old. -Hasn't been updated obviously? That's what they look like -That's what they look like. -You ever seen the swinging bridge? Okay, I'll drop you off. You walk on the bridge, you come back. Take you camera with you. -Down towards the river, down that way. -Go see the bridge. [Peter] This place has A bit of a step back in time feeling Here we go. &quot;15 at a time.&quot; Suspension bridge. So we started in Lihue today. That would be the biggest town where the airport is, the Walmart, We've made our way around the south Has a much different Guys like Vernon because they want to tell you the stories, Would never get this Finding all these places and getting the stories. It's the stories I love these old stories because... What is it, in 20 years, So getting them on camera, stories of the grandfathers the histories of these places, you know, while it's still it's just I get something out of it, I think you guys do too if you've Vernon said he's gonna bring us to that still exists here on the island. That's what we're off to next. [bright Hawaiian music] [Vernon] This is Hanapepe Valley. When I was young, came with my dad and used to get caves, like... They had Hawaiians in the cave and they would just leave 'em there. -Hawaiians in wooden boxes? Like this cave right here. Oh, in these caves? -Yeah, you see one there? I would come and I would see the box and I would see the skeletons inside All through this valley go up. This is Olokele Sugar Mill. That's the last sugar mill left that went down already, it's closed down. Robinson was the last one -Okay. This is the guy that take care [honks] Ben. I don't know if he stay home. This was actually we call them haole camp. Which was the white man, the lunas. -Yeah, the lunas, yeah, yeah. And then right in the back and then on this side was Japanese camp and then your Chinese camp [Peter] Oh, wow. So I was from Hawaii, -They call them Pidgin. Yeah, the reason why it's Pidgin English All the different races -I didn't know why. Okay, so you have You break down English in your own way? -Old timers. -No, Portuguese Filipino. But you can understand -Little bit, yeah. -So when did that sugar mill close down? Robinson owns -I think it was if I'm not mistaken, -Okay. So what's it being used for now what's it now? -We get other agricultural companies and we get housing, a hydro plant. -Okay, so in a way it's good 'cause it can't be developed right now? -Well Robinson actually they can develop. They have people come here but they'd rather stay farm. You know, we right now We're looking at Lawai So what happened to all these workers worked all these jobs? -Most of the workers and they still had still So some of the people they still pay about $500 a month rent. I pay $300 with trash and water. -For your house? Your house is sweet. This is one of the guys -Are you serious? It's my dream to go there -Not anybody can go there. -On a hunting-- -I would want to see the people in town. -They all speak Hawaiian out there still? And their Hawaiian is completely different -Completely different. By they get the original Hawaiian. And the Robinson... Bruce and Kit Fluent, I remember that. No more water, no electricity, right? -No more. [Peter] So what are they doing out there? They farm, they get cattle, But they no do kiawe anymore. -The bee, they get kiawe honey -How many people are living out there? And then most of 'em is here working -Do they have a different way because they live such a remote lifestyle? -Plenty of them cannot speak English. -The education is a bit more local. -Okay. -Do they look at themselves as Americans Uh, put it this way, versus the one outside You get all these flags, -Yeah, [Hawaiian] and whatnot. -Yeah. -How many people have access? Not plenty. -Like 50? -All the workers, probably me. -I told him over there is different. -Do they accept you pretty well? No problem but the thing is this over there life is different. The husband gon' tell the wife, He go down the ocean, We gonna eat moi. Throw net, get the moi, That's all, they gon' take Tomorrow, &quot;What you gon' eat?&quot; He catch manini. That's how they live off the ocean -Is it like Hawaii -Is that what it feels like? Do you notice... -No. -So no social media? So do you notice a difference in the kids -They hard working. And if you'd go there we'd get about [chuckling] -Because it's like what, 10 to 1? -10 to 1 women over there? No, yeah, for guys. No more guys. My friend would go with a gun. He tell me the women waving to him. [speaking Hawaiian] -Why so many more women than men? Because they die out. -You know what I mean? No, they die out. Maybe this lady, You know? And our family about hanai. Before they no adopt. If I get five boys and you get two girls You give them your name, everything. Still happen over here. Hanai is when basically you adopt They just come in and live here. No more papers. -That's a Hawaiian thing? But when he give it's lifetime, pal. And the kid could take your name. Bruce's wife just had hanai on baby. -From one of the-- Yeah. -Nah. -The Robinsons? Oh, wow. So basically like if a kid... and it becomes your kid pretty much? -Yeah, you raise them, pay for everything, -You just don't do the paperwork. -And that's in the culture like forever? It's like me, I had three boys They came and lived with me and joined the army and move mainland. -Those were hanai kids? You know what, but I've never heard of any bad cases -Yeah. Never heard that. This guy used to hanai us -Running around with his boy. -We lived a tough life. Many cracks. [laughing] [rooster crows] [Vernon] Okay, now you take off your belt. -It's okay to go down here -Ben said we could pass through. Only when you come by the house. -No film direct facing, you know? So jut to make very clear, You have the access and connections, -Yes. No, that's why you get signs. [Vernon] Now over here gonna be See the old house? -Yeah. -This is sort of like old Hawaii, right? Plantation also is right here. -Are these people working for Robinson? See the old garage? -It's like a step back in time. -Peaceful though, you know? You see how they fish right here Yeah, that's great. -Up in the morning, This one abandoned here. Oh yeah, real old. -Yeah, the jungle took over. -Abandoned. Right here this guy -What do you mean by that? Louie. -Louie -You old goat you, that's you! Pull aside. This guy is not getting paid. He just doing this because he like -I tried driving up and down this road and listen to my wife complain, [laughs] So working for love also means -There you go, yeah. -I remember you bought a house over there. I still stay there. I never change. Stop by with... -Okay. Working for love. How you like that? [bright Hawaiian music] Okay Peter, you ever heard of this place? -This place? &quot;Cream Rose&quot;. &quot;Western Meat Company&quot;. -Don't know of it. This here is over a hundred years old. They got this stopper here, okay? They'll fill up the soda These don't come out. And you pull them up with a wire When you like drink you just So this bottle is worth about $500, $600. This is what you call a crown. But you see it's embossed. So this bottle is about 300 bucks. -Where'd you get these, Vernon? By my past time all over. Here's one more here, Louie Ice Company. -Really thick, the glass back then. -It's very thick. Okay, now, ordinary Coke bottle, right? -You've seen these before, right? &quot;Lahouie TH&quot;. Territory of Hawaii before statehood. -That is cool. -So everybody kick these bottles But this bottle is worth 125 bucks. This here, this is a liquor bottle. This is I think a beer bottle. This here, hundred, hundred fifty years old. It's hand-blown You know how you can tell? -Hmm. But this is one old, old bottle. You believe this ruler -Okay. -Did your birthday come this year already? -Not yet. What I want you to do is I want you to find the year you born. Wait now, wait now. You're birthday didn't come yet. -Now I'd like you find the year you born. Come over here. -What year you was born? Okay, look on the other side get your age. Oh, that's cool. -How the hell a ruler can do that? -That is cool. You know what year you dad was born? -'42. He'd be 81. Would he be? Yeah, he would be. -81 right now -You never did see this? Okay Peter, I show you how it's done. -All you do is you hold the year, okay? Because you birthday didn't come yet I gonna hold 123. Because you still in 2023 yet. -Mm-hmm. -If you told me your birthday came already -Okay. -Okay? So now look at me now. -How old you think I am? Okay, so now you go back -I'm sage age you dad. I'm born '41 you gon' see 81 over there. I born '42 already. Okay, now... -Whoa. Put these back slowly, Put this back up inside. -All right, before I do I'm just gonna say -Okay. -Yeah, that was awesome. -Really appreciate it. You had great stories. You welcome to come anytime and next time you come -Okay? All right guys, Till the next one. [bright Hawaiian music]