This is a YouTube channel on sale for $15,000. And here's another YouTube I recently discovered there selling established YouTube channels for thousands of dollars. So today I'm gonna attempt to find out is this just a big scam or can you actually buy that's got hundreds of Okay, so I'd like just Verified listings. I'd like the channels to and I'd like them to have For subscribers we'll do at And then everything else and I'll click Search. Whoa! (chuckles) Need For Speed? $99, 2000 subscribers. Well, let's have a look And it's just &quot;Need For Speed&quot; gameplay. It makes sense. Well, I'll leave ya on the back burner 'cause I was actually after something with slightly more subscribers. Let's actually see what the 3.8 million subscribers and they are wanting $8,888. Well let's find out if it's worth it. So this is the page and they get to add their own bit of info and they can even add some So they want $8,000, but in the last 28 days and they have a Community Guideline strike which isn't a great sign. They also only accept payments via crypto. I feel like if I buy this, Let's keep looking. Newt Shorts, 1.8 million subscribers and apparently they're Okay, well that actually Well, that actually says which is a lot less than And you've also got a They've listed it as a and if we go to the channel, to be fair, they've got 44 million on their most viewed. But the thing is, right, what do I start uploading? Because let's click on one of the videos. (video narrator speaking - (laughs) I don't even How do I continue this? So most of the channels that are for sale aren't English speaking, which obviously makes it much harder for me to continue the uploads but I'm not too worried Primarily, I just wanna see if I can legitimately get access Because you will see if I it's a very complicated process, and it seems like most of the sellers want you to pay in cryptocurrency which also feels a bit dodgy. But basically how it all works is, if I, for example wanted to purchase the I have to first create a deal and then if the current who is this fella, Asif I then send my $10,000 to They then hold onto my $10,000, Asif Ali then transfers the And then after seven days the escrow person sends And the escrow then sends me Asif Ali's Playtime Squad YouTube channel. So it's very complicated and it feels like there's Maybe I will get scammed. We're just here to have a bit of fun. Oh, interesting. This YouTube channel actually So I wonder if I purchased this for $1,450 could I then order another that would have this channel name? That would be so funny. Their revenue is so weird. On one day they earned nearly $3,000 and then the rest of the time That's so weird. Whoa. This channel's called Jack Reacts. So this could actually Jack Reacts has earned over $100,000 in ad revenue in the last three years and they get between 250,000 to 400,000 passive monthly views. Well, let's look at the actual channel. Oh my God, he's still uploading. His channel's quite So $29,000 feels a little bit steep, but to be fair, still averaging Oh my God. It would be so funny if and then just started to music videos just like him. But I just never acknowledge But unfortunately he's charging Like I cannot afford that. We might have to go I'm not gonna lie. (laughs) What is this channel? Pretty Woman Kitchen. (laughs) Oh my God. Imagine Pretty They've got 120,000 But they have literally no videos. They have nothing at all. That's so weird. It's only $349 though. I'm kind of tempted because it would just be so funny to own Pretty Woman Kitchen. Yeah, I'm going for it. (laughs) We've got lots and lots of small print. Yeah, I'm sure it's fine. They're warning me that the for what happens after the listing ends and the sale is completed. Well that's a bad sign, but we'll click Agree and continue. Request to purchase Pretty Okay. Apparently I just need to wait for the seller to accept. So while we're waiting, let's What should we go with? Ooh, interesting. So I've found this channel called Fufik and they are selling for $1,400. But if we have a look it's basically like weird kids content, and this is their most viewed But if we go ahead and watch it. - Hello, my name is Fufik. - I think basically what's happening is this blue animated dog with a crown is reacting to these weird So just something funny Now there's fun music and he's dancing. So I could see myself adding What if I animate myself and I react to the blue to whatever this is. If I had this channel, I would own all of the so I would be totally fine reacting to it. And then maybe it'll just because like, dumb two And then the rest's history. So they are losing subscribers. They do also have a but it's a warning rather (chuckles) It seems like has some kind of warning or strike. They've earned $1 in the last 28 days. So I'm not gonna lie, I think this is probably about to be one of the worst financial But let's click Buy this channel. (laughs) And I'm doing PayPal once again, please. Now I need to accept all which make it nice and legal for me to literally just be scammed I agree. There you go. And now we just wait for them I've still not heard back from So I'll see you when there's an update. It is now a couple of days later and both channels accepted their purchase. So my next step was to And the escrow fees are 7% of whatever the purchase amount is. So for Pretty Woman Kitchen, I had to pay 7% of 349, which was $24. Now for some reason I and instead I had to So of course I did the logical thing and purchased PS2000 (laughs) I do not know how I'm going to explain that to my accountant. I paid the $24 escrow fee and then I paid the $84 escrow fee, or should I say a 1,368 And now, in all fairness to both sellers, they've both been quite prompt so far. But I wanna warn you, do not do this. This is stupid! Not only is it kind of to purchase another YouTube channel 'cause there's no way You're not gonna be able to just carry on where the other channel left off. What are you thinking? But also I'm paying for This is incredibly dodgy. If you were to try this yourself, there's a chance you'll get But anyway, that being said, both sellers have now the manager of their And as you can see, in primary ownership rights will And once I get these YouTube channels, I don't know what I'm gonna Obviously I'm gonna try and but let's be honest, that's But first and foremost, I just Will I actually become the So I guess I'll see you in six days, five hours, 35 minutes, and 28 seconds. Woo-hoo-hoo-hoo! The time of the Pretty which means it was time for me to send the current owner $349. Now they let me do this via PayPal providing it was a friends which basically gets rid of It means that it's impossible So that's nice and dodgy. But the independent escrow make me the primary owner of the channel. So I've received an invitation to join. So it looks like on Pretty Woman Kitchen, I'm not gonna get scammed. This is gonna be a legitimate transaction and hopefully nothing goes wrong. Now before I click Accept, I into the history of this channel because why does a random channel called Pretty Woman Kitchen have over a hundred thousand subscribers? Well, using the internet archive, I managed to go back to November, 2020 and I found this screenshot of the channel and we can see the name and profile picture has been changed. He is not a pretty woman in a kitchen. They had 290 subscribers three years ago and they were uploading some videos which have now all been deleted. So we can't see the thumbnails. But I was able to put the and it revealed some Now they've been translated but we do have a few key phrases such as &quot;steak from the house of kidneys&quot;, &quot;slicing the peel,&quot; &quot;cutting the heart and calf kidneys.&quot; Now, I don't think this is as I think, as I said, they've just been translated And my thought is they're where they're preparing meat, hopefully anyway. (laughs) But either way, shall we Let's see if we can actually Here we go. Become an owner. Sure, let's accept. (giggles excitedly) Go on, go on. Here we go. Got a little bit more access. Manage permissions. What users do we have? All right, it's just me. And then the person who Becky will blur. So this means the original seller has no access to the channel anymore. So this looks good. Oh my God. (laughs) I've gone back to YouTube and now Pretty Woman Kitchen is just one of my channels All right, let's log in. I'm in. I'm bloody in. It's all in Arabic. Okay, that makes sense. (chuckles) I can't believe it. How do I get out of Arabic? Okay, let's go to my YouTube studio. Oh my God, this is so weird. I'm just on the channel. I'm Pretty Woman Kitchen. I've got 120,000 subscribers. I have a channel violation. Should we find the details on that? YouTube deleted a video, I can't see what it but it's just a warning, we'll leave it. Everything's still being so it's reading from left to right. So it takes a bit of getting used to. But we can take a look Oh my God, apparently the Doing what? And it earned $300. This is so weird. (chuckles) Do I have any videos? No, they've all been deleted. Oh my God. Well, $349 later, here I am. Pretty Woman Kitchen. I'm gonna comment on my last video. Okay, I'm just gonna say &quot;good vid&quot; and let's leave a comment. And I've logged back sort by newest first. (laughs) Thanks, Pretty Woman Kitchen. (chuckles) All right. I've officially Now I just need to wait for that actually has a bunch Okay. And now even more excitingly my countdown ended for So I've sent them over PS1000 and I am now the owner of the channel. (laughs) This is so weird. So you can see it's here on my dropdown. Let's log in. Oh, okay. Looks like everything's in Is that $6.93? That Dogecoin pays for itself! So thanks to Pretty Woman Kitchen, I now know how to change the language. It's quite straightforward. There we go. (chortles) I cannot believe that I now &quot;Guess the Monsters #15&quot;, &quot;Skibidi Toilet: Original We'll have a little watch. (weird discordant music) What have I bought?! (laughs) I own this. Look, I could just change the description. &quot;Yo, yo, yo! &quot;Wat up? &quot;Iron Man rulez&quot; Save. So we have a Community Guideline strike just like Pretty Woman Kitchen. They uploaded 17 days And how much did we earn from that? 2 cents. Okay. Lost two subscribers as Now speaking of monetization, obviously right now, So that means that if I go to Earn, everything is currently set up and active. However, I guess I need to change the AdSense account to my own, otherwise the previous But also if we have a over the last 365 days, it is on exactly 4,000 hours. And if it dips below that, Fufik will actually be removed and I won't earn any money. So guys, if you're looking for I've got the channel for you. Link in the description. Now this is kind of crazy but I guess I can see this channel has earned You can see that in the last but it looks like there's been no uploads for most of the year. So let's change it to Lifetime. I'm kind of excited. Here we go. (Jack gasps) (chuckles) Go on! I don't know who owned this channel. I think it's obviously But if we go back to 2020, there was a period of time over a hundred dollars a day. Meaning that in total, Most popular video was this &quot;Paw Patrol&quot; zombie one with 9 million. So how much did that earn? $3,000. I can't believe This is so weird. This is now my video. Look at that! They've got So was this like actual original content? Oh, it's privated. That's so interesting. This is insane. It's the kid from Paw Patrol, but they've made their own version of it and he's now a zombie that's about to be run over by a train. (zombie snarls) Oh my God. He does! (zombie growling) What the hell? (chuckles) Well let's get it un-privated, Yeah, why not? What's the worst that could happen? Is this irresponsible? Possibly. So it looks like many of their biggest videos have been privated which is really, really interesting. I kind of wanna just un-private everything and see what happens. (laughs) It's possibly a bad idea but I'm about to lose monetization so I'm doing everything I can. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. And then I'm gonna hop back 'cause I've got a funny idea. That's right. I have made a video for and it's pretty incredible. Shall we give it a watch? Yeah, sure. Why not, Jack? What's up guys? Pretty Woman Kitchen here in I just wanted to let you all know that I'll be back with regular So stay subscribed and I'll (laughs) Weird, really strange. So I uploaded that video to Pretty Woman Kitchen two days ago and I've not yet checked Well, Pretty Woman Kitchen So the video must be on at Let's log in and find out. Go to my YouTube studio and we have got... 25 views. (chuckles) Zero comments. Okay. Zero likes. Okay. We've lost one subscriber. (laughs) We have some audience retention data, but I'll be honest, I'm pretty sure that's I didn't think it was even possible for a channel to be that inactive. Like it's making me think perhaps none of those subscribers are even real. Potentially they're all botted accounts. Well, I guess things aren't going great thus far, but don't worry, we have I un-privated all of So we probably have millions Well, I did get 300 more views (sombre music) my monetization for having (laughs) And I've fallen below So even if my channel wasn't riddled with apparent stolen content, I wouldn't be eligible So now the two big questions. Number one, can you buy other Well, we've proven over the last month, the answer is yes, you can. But then the second question is, should you buy other To which I would generally say absolutely not, unless your sole intention people that are verified I really don't see any advantage to this. The only way it could ever work is if you were buying a faceless channel that had like an AI voice that you could just continue to replicate, and also that channel Whereas all of the channels they're all kind of dead and because people are just trying to make a little last bit of extra money. But either way, we could continue this. I have these two channels now. I'll leave them linked in the description. Let me know if you have you think I should try. Thank you so much for watching. Subscribe to this channel. Let's get to 4 million and