Translator: Stilyana Stoyanova By show of hands, How many of you have ever because you felt that you were in love? Very good! How many have ever broken up &quot;You don't deserve me.&quot; Ah-ha! &quot;As a matter of fact, I don't even know how I fell in love Oh, I know. You were drunk in love, right? In my line of field, clients come to me One client wants me She's been with her boyfriend There is no promise ring, no conversation about wedding. And on top of it, he is cheating on her. She wants to know if she should continue or kick the guy to the curb. So, I ask her, &quot;How many times She says, &quot;At least four times.&quot; When a lady says &quot;at least four times,&quot; multiply that by two. It's eight times. &quot;Do you love him?&quot; &quot;Yes,&quot; she replies. &quot;Does he love you?&quot; &quot;He says he does, but his action does not show it.&quot; &quot;What action specifically?&quot; &quot;The cheating.&quot; &quot;If you loved someone, would you cheat on them? If you truly loved someone, would you cheat on them at least four times multiplied by two?&quot; She says, &quot;No.&quot; Well, if your answer is &quot;no,&quot; True love that is not is not true love. Another client says he is happy in his relationship, he loves his girl, but he is cheating on the side and they are both in love together. And he does not know I say, &quot;You know how You shifted your focus You divided your Someone who used to hold no longer holds that position. That's how you got yourself in this mess. So what do you want to do?&quot; He says he would like the married woman &quot;What do you mean by this?&quot; Well, every time the woman she always thinks about him, and he does not want so that he does not stop the affair. I'm like, &quot;Wait a minute! So you want to continue having He says, &quot;Yes.&quot; I say, &quot;Really? How would your girlfriend Put yourself in her shoes. You have a boyfriend who says he is in love with you, but at the same time, he is cheating with someone else Can you actually love two people He says, &quot;I don't want any changes. I just want the situation I want to keep both women in my life.&quot; I say, &quot;Wow! You are just like McDonald's slogan: you are lovin' it. Aren't you?&quot; Love is powerful. According to a survey, about 9 out of 10 Americans cited love as an important Past statistics show 67% of second marriages and a stagering high end in divorce. The question is, If love is an important factor that influences people to get married, how come it does not hold the marriage? How come it does not hold When we examine love in a break up, I believe one of three It's either: one, there was no love at the beginning two, there was something bigger than the love or three, the love declined. I can understand when you feel and you tell your partner, especially, when you are and your partner becomes because he just ate &quot;If you loved me, That's what you say. Right, ladies? At the same token, I believe there is nothing that can break a relationship - absolutely nothing - if the couple truly loves each other. And that is what I want true love. There are different types You have the philia love, which is brotherly love. It is what you share with your family, Another one is eros. It is a sexual type of love. It gives the feelings of arousal. This is what you feel when you see a beautiful and you are like, You cannot stop looking at them. You cannot hold yourself together. You begin to fantasise and have all kinds You are having eros type of love. The next one is what You all know the song! &quot;Real love, someone to make And we are still trying to understand You see, all these types of love They cannot hold a relationship together. But true love, which the Bible also can hold a relationship together, can keep a relationship for a long haul. What is true love? True love is passionate love. You have two independent words, fused together to make Passion is the force that drives it is the flow that keeps love going. Love without passion is It is like a car without an engine. No movement would happen. And just in case you are wondering how you can tell or if you truly love someone: sacrifice. Sacrifice for one another would indicate And sacrifice is giving up something for another thing Just like giving up that piece of pie Or it is the release in an exchange for another This is exactly what God did when he released and sacrificed just to have us. &quot;For God so loved the world that whoever believes in Him will not God demostrated true love - agape love. Love filled with passion and sacrifice. I had an opportunity I was in college, I enjoyed galvanizing and I did this by throwing parties. And if you know one thing the more women you have there, spend money at the bar, So my goal, every time, This, however, opens the door I remember after throwing a party, three women that do not know each other say they want to spend They wake up in the morning, one begins to feed me breakfast. The second one gets jealous. She goes into the kitchen. Grabs food. The third one looking like, Should I join the party or what?&quot; I am thinking to myself, But no, it's a reality. I'm like Hugh Hefner But that reality was short-lived, as I meet a girl and she is truly But she does not like She does not want to compete This is a deal breaker for her, and, of course, it is because that means that I am going to have and spending time with other women so that I can have and keep her. So I begin to analyse the situation. What am I going to do? Who or what should I pick? Her over them or them over her? This is my kairos moment. My moment of decision. This is where true love So I made a decision and a sacrifice to give up both throwing parties so that I can have and keep this girl A few years later, we got married and we have two beautiful You see, true love that can keep and sustain a relationship. It will help you to make to give up playing games, and seek counselling when you can in order for you to have Because of the love problems is the reason why I wrote my book, &quot;Revelations of Relationship - What you don't know about finding true I want to admonish you all to find and practice true love Cheers to your improvement. (Applause)