Debuting in 1986 for the Famicom Disk System in that system's killer app; it became a sensation status in the West and establishing Nintendo The idea sprung from Shigeru Miyamoto's and fighting skeletons. It was intended discovery into a game that could be understood In retrospect, it's difficult to appreciate the time. Its map was massive, its dungeons hours trying to find and stab an evil they played The Legend of Zelda. HA HA. especially for an 8-bit game, and its impact on The same is true of nearly all of its sequels, and which often manage to either set or predict Of course, with so many sequels and spinoffs, worry! We are here to tell you which games are how much. And we did this by using a scientific and then deciding." It's complicated and you Typically when laying out the ground rules Considering today's subject matter, By his royal decree, we will not be including of them. They are all rubbish. That is been made: It's rubbish. Now leave me alone. collections, remakes, or remasters. Zelda as they sometimes span console generations, such and the Wii, or Breath of the Wild releasing for we will consider the earlier generation to be received most of its development. And if a game its original release in Japan, we will look at the and James refuses to learn Japanese just so he Let's rank 'em. and this is Every Legend of Zelda #34: Zelda no Densetsu: Barcode Battler II about, we do end up talking about barcode-based like, three times, but that's three times too saw notable success in Japan, but a bit less I mean that it might as well have been shipped itself came with a set of cards, with players fight enemies, or similarly basic concepts. of dedicated cards. In fact, it encouraged fans to had a barcode, just to see what kind of powerups which is to say that the console had no idea what barcodes into equally irrelevant digits. What fun! could actually be connected to the Famicom to...well, provide some actual games as opposed to opened the door to a collaboration with Nintendo, That's...not what happened. Barcode Battler of cards with Zelda-related imagery on were either added to or subtracted from other seen a calculator or been to a supermarket. your expectations by having something other than and shame on you for inferring such a #33: Link: The Faces of Evil (1993) In 1989, Nintendo thought that disc-based media there. But they weren't ready to commit to the of the best consoles of all time and some of the Sony led to the creation of the PlayStation - since - and another abandoned deal with The CD-i wasn't intended to be a but it was an electronic device that played The messy divorce resulted in Philips getting characters," but since the games contain well knows for sure. Regardless, the CD-I received more than some actual Nintendo consoles got! of the worst games ever made. Is that entirely problem is less that they are uniformly terrible, and highest-rated franchises in the history of even if they were only "pretty good." not The Faces of Evil. Remember when I mentioned As a result, The Faces of Evil suffered from making it feel sort of like it's being Its infamy is due mainly to its bizarre featuring everything from punishing difficulty to that you're playing through somebody's its reputation suggests? Yes. What kind of #32: Zelda: The Wand of Gamelon (1993) Most people speak about The Faces of Evil and chapters of the same book. Very rarely are they We're ranking The Wand of Gamelon higher for one Does that matter? No. Is she a strong female Faces-of-Evil Link is not? No. But it's a novelty, novelty can be enough. Also, while Zelda's voice she at least makes an attempt to sound like who seems to believe he's voicing a Ninja Turtle. place in retrospect; contemporary This preview in SNES Force wondered why Zelda they also called the graphics "superb" and the that they stopped breathing after watching it. most ways. In The Faces of Evil, Link must Ganon. In The Wand of Gamelon, Zelda must to kill Ganon. Each adventure is bookended distracted toddlers. Same poo, different nappy. the reputations of the CD-i Zelda games, and we doing so means trying to convince people that that the games are "exhilarating," it's probably #31: Zelda's Adventure (1994) Look, is Zelda's Adventure actually better but it really, truly does not matter. The singular clump that we're all trying to pass We're ranking it highest only because it feels It wasn't - please, let me be absolutely a return to the overhead screen-by-screen impulse than making a clunky platformer. pulls inspiration from the very first Zelda game, based on finding items and clearing dungeons. "praise" might be an extreme way of saying The rest of Zelda's Adventure is just differently but doesn't really register as "better." The pace from the animations drawn by Satan with is being hit by a bus. And while the overall it reminds us of the original Zelda just enough to Zelda's Adventure has just enough of TRIED cake out of the bin, but we probably The game had a limited release in 1995, which sacred pledge not to purchase a CD-i, so if you have a spare $200,000 lying around and #30: Dekisugi Tingle Pack (2009) The Dekisugi Tingle Pack - which basically means means The Tingle Pack - is a suite of applications one example of Nintendo charging for things that in some cases, were already part of the system. been the only wise decision Nintendo made with though? What did they get for their Not all that much. I know! I was surprised, too! can't read Japanese but I think it's safe to alarm, in case you ever wanted to be in control before Tingle next yells at you. There's how much money you've spent on novelty apps if you happen to be able to afford a DSi and And there's...well...I'll defer "a marionette of Tingle that will dance in front Good lord. I'd pay 500 Nintendo Points, whatever On the bright side, I tricked you into The Dekisugi Tingle Pack is the gods' and it's one that we probably deserve. of us learned from this punishment, and we apps to start coming preinstalled #29: The Legend of Zelda: Tri Force Heroes (2015) We're quite early in the list, but we are already everything we discuss has something to recommend better than others, than which games are worse. memorable. It certainly wasn't done any favors in recent memory: A Link Between Worlds and Breath would you honestly rather play it than either Tri Force Heroes was meant to be similar to but with three Links instead of four. Which you episode of Sesame Street. The central mechanic higher areas and toss each other over gaps. That's why four-player support was removed;three cartoon reasonable, but four cartoon elves standing The multiplayer was done better in earlier had if you can find a couple of friends. And if the outfit system allows players to dress not usually considered masculine. That's a it's nice to see them loosening up a bit. Critics were any - easily forgot it, but it was...fine. The #28: My Nintendo Picross: The Legend 3DS everyone, calm down. Please, calm down. I know! But hear me out before you eat me In addition to having the snappiest title of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is more is fun! How could it not be? You're tapping on Not often. In fact, by my count, it's Additionally, My Nintendo Picross: The Legend of saying in its entirety until every one of us hates a free download for My Nintendo members...and it that 3DS in the back of your cupboard. people to play Miitomo. Remember Miitomo? Of for the first time in years and you've completing tasks in Miitomo was the main way to As a bonus - some might say apology - for playing only around 100 puzzles in total, most of which difficult by the handheld's small touchscreen. As be nice for Twilight Princess fans, who get to see but Twilight Princess fans are too busy cracking comments they will write when they see how low we #27: Tingle's Balloon Fight DS (2007) As with My Nintendo Picross: The Legend of should have called Twilight Picross, come on because the non-Zelda part of the game is fun. you'd rank it lower and the world would so here we are, attempting to justify a is plastered all over a classic NES I can say, at least, that Tingle isn't Fight. When we met him in Majora's Mask, he high into the air and disappoint his father. It both emphasizing his childlike nature and cartographer, mapping areas from above. look, I didn't say it wasn't a stretch. It's just The game includes both modes from the original which is a legitimately nice bonus. It also adds you progress through the game. It is horrifying the name Tingle. I mean, regret it even more. It was only released in Japan, which you may through the Japanese My Nintendo rewards program. but it's also far from the best game #26: Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland (2006) If your first thought upon meeting Tingle this man breed," then Freshly-Picked It begins with our hero lying on the floor Zelda games should begin in my opinion, when a which will in turn allow him to raise a tower ...and I've only this moment understood what Nintendo, I didn't think you had it in you. ...and going to stop before I go in any deeper. Damn it. your parents if anyone asks you to call them tinglin', and everything in the game revolves objectives, it's the way in which you progress the obviously. It's even the big bad. Superficially, the pull. At heart, though, it stays largely true exploration, item collection, and impressive For a time, at least. It's a colorful and its welcome. Collecting rupees makes sense for grindy, as though you're accomplishing little more Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland is but it actually released here in Europe just a #25: Link's Crossbow Training (2007) How do you get people to buy a piece of plastic? into a large, globally popular franchise. Easy, Training is a fairly slight experience, but its as it seems. At various points, it was meant Princess, a standalone epic adventure, or future inspired by The Terminator. No, really. that the prototypes were both overcomplicated remember that they were making a game and not a came close to cancellation, and it was only saved simplistic build, asking them if it were even That's a lot of drama for a pack-in game to but it's also why Link's Crossbow Nintendo easily could have given us a few rounds we got instead is impressively polished and secrets, and strategies to uncover. There's a very un-Zelda-like squeezing of a trigger. Zapper pack-in had any right to be. The best play it. You can already point the Wii Remote of the Wii Remote in the first place. You #24: BS Zelda no Densetsu (1995) Fans of the original Legend of Zelda were ability to play through it again, with a "second Those who entered "ZELDA" as the name of their were either cheaters or ended up very confused. released for the Satellaview. It featured with completely different layouts once more. to experience the adventure all over again, And that's not all! It was released in an When we say "episodic" today, we mean that of BS Zelda no Densetsu, it was episodic in the just like an interactive television show. If you missed your chance to progress "What happened that week" tended to be an triggered by the Old Man from the original game. little we can say about it conclusively. "partially lost media." A ROM does Dedicated archivists have done their best to because Nintendo certainly doesn't seem it's an admirably ambitious for technology to properly support it. It's right now, easily and inexpensively, on the #23: BS Zelda no Densetsu Satellaview Sekiban was essentially a reworking of an existing Being as the game was already 16 bits, it didn't enough to feel like a new experience anyway. the Past. Like the previous game, it doesn't star making these rare instances of being able to Once again, the main selling point is the reason needed to tune into a scheduled broadcast, and Inishie no Sekiban was divided into four episodes, the map and access new dungeons. The idea was and explore the overworld, which was quite a lot difficult by design. It was intended to serve as difficult task, which could be either a benefit or certainly the right approach for the Satellaview. the service, but it was more or less a direct port episodes, nor did it feature the live sound and it was consistently available between 1997 every episode or miss out on it #22: The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword (2011) Poor Skyward Sword. It was demoed at E3 2010, with the controls. This was just a setup for would descend to the mortal plane and show him had problems with the controls. Eventually had problems with the controls, too, so That was just the start of the game's problems, not that one - being completely overshadowed by focused on everything from its confused art you solutions before you'd even seen the puzzles. was a striking example of recency bias. When it with perfect and near-perfect scores coming from to be the best in the series. Then, a year was what it did wrong, and they made Nintendo Some Zelda games are poorly received and stay only grow in their reputation from there. Skyward both ends of the critical continuum, and that's usually is with this series. It's not all that that reminds us of how much better Zelda usually That metaphor would have worked so much better if this were one of the games with a the one with a Cloud World. Just one more #21: The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks (2009) Considering the fact that most of "The Legend of Zelda," you'd expect Zelda however, she will only pop up to congratulate a cameo. There are exceptions, such as having or dedicating all of her power to sealing evil But those are, indeed, the exceptions. talking about. You must have dreamed it. effectively; Zelda does plenty of interesting that she is Zelda, at which point Leave it to Spirit Tracks to give Zelda as she helps Link throughout his adventure Because she's a ghost now. Did I forget to after she's basically dead. If that doesn't Spirit Tracks is a direct sequel to the without merit. It's mainly memorable for a train far less freedom than literally anything Link has personality. Spirit Tracks also uses the same called; possibly the little engine that could. improving all that much. It tweaks but anyone who didn't enjoy that game it's so similar, it's downright freight-ening. #20: Zelda II: The Adventure of Link (1987) The odd duck of the Zelda series - wait, are there odd duck of the Zelda series, The Adventure of innovations stuck around. In that regard, it can establish mechanics and concepts that later games by showing sequels what not to do. but it's not the whole story. To be clear, there Nintendo itself seems happy to forget that the dungeons, its dedicated battle screens, its extra however, serve as the proving ground for such as magic spells and sword techniques. Even Link could turn into a fairy. It hasn't been not an evolutionary dead end. Wait, is there actually? Let's all just assume there isn't. name, a darned good adventure. The environments pace. For an 8-bit game, there are even a large though a ropey translation holds them back from the Zelda series? ...right, not quite what I was Anyway, Zelda II is better than its reputation it's not all that difficult. It's one of but on a list of games that sometimes feel a #19: Irozuki Tingle no Koi no Balloon Trip (2009) Translating to "Ripened Tingle's Balloon Trip Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland. I'm glad there was could have come up with another title that was as game, Tingle was the kind of sad, pathetic for a date. This time around, he's the kind of books. You should be ashamed of yourself, Tingle! back to talking about video games all day. of L. Frank Baum, because he gets sucked into The Wizard of Oz. From here, the game could Rosy Rupeeland, but it's an entirely different adventure game, which suits the storybook of Tingle, and the adorable visuals quite well. paint, too; Tingle's companions are based on the and the tin woodman...who, because this is a They each have their own abilities is once again to help Tingle make out with hot So...can it be? A Tingle game that is truly good novelty or a reskin? Actually...yes! Irozuki Tingle to actually be worth playing. ...which means Better luck next time Tingle stars in #18: The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass (2007) As popular as the DS was, an overriding memory pointless touchscreen integration. You really games added some unnecessary interaction or other a button. We certainly can't begrudge anyone who and thought, "No. Thank you, but no." Even so, of adapting to them, Phantom Hourglass turns what graceful controls that the series has had. Okay, The game picks up after The Wind Waker, taking one of the shockingly rare direct sequels in charm and character of that game. Otherwise, it's ocean blue, but the experience is much shallower, an irritating amount of treading the same ground, must be revisited multiple times. Thankfully, each quite different enough to fully stave off fatigue. but what the game gets right, it really gets the features of the DS tie interestingly into and greedy old Linebeck is among the best It's a bit overstuffed and it pales in comparison #17: The Legend of Zelda: Four DSi what to do with Four Swords, the bonus game that for the Game Boy Advance. We don't count alternate and, in addition, we don't count ports the main game to which it was attached. And yet, a quick bonus mode - is important to the Zelda already feels important to the Mario franchise, Fortunately for me - well, for everyone, but I'm own for the DSi as an Anniversary Edition. And not having to faff about with link cables for they added more content. And also, the soundtrack single-player mode. Oh, and also, it was free. it's only because they used up all of their The game involves multiple Links, controlled Single-player mode lets you swap between control all of the stuff designed for multiplayer, but it gives you time to wonder how you made it this If you want to play it...too bad, baby. It was the game in 2014 - for exactly one month - What was that I said about Nintendo's #16: The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (2006) In response to the backlash over the art particularly absurd in retrospect, considering how overcorrect, giving us a smear of brown and they did what the fans wanted: They gave us a could handle. The graphics also aged like a Rare is the Zelda game that is completely does manage to get a lot of things right, such Midna, who is by a fairly wide margin the ever had. She tips into "overly helpful" a bit What sets her apart is her personality, which what could have been a hint box. over Twilight Princess, which makes it feel like play with itself. I'm realizing now that I could the idea. Twilight Princess is self-serious to and the fantastical stuff feels out of place, to that the entire game feels moody also robs the If everything is already miserable, what And yet, it's still quite good. There are fun boss even if they aren't always as useful as they bringing the number of things he has in It's by no means bad, but it is one of Link's #15: Cadence of Hyrule: Crypt of the (2019) As with Hyrule Warriors - the first game, Balloon Fight - which are three words I is really an entry in a different series with a Zelda Paint, actually. Her breath was wild. a 2015 indie rhythm-action roguelike, a but which played surprisingly well. It garnered The main gimmick of the game was that everything to be done in time to the beat of the music. of like trying to play Godzilla in Guitar Hero managed to get the hang of things, though, Ryan Clark - one of the game's directors - was He didn't think Nintendo would allow it, but entire game in the Zelda universe. He presumably was able to utter another word, but eventually Like Crypt of the NecroDancer, the game was well the Zelda franchise. It even had different modes including permadeath for hardcore players, and the music...which sort of defeats the purpose but at screen. It's clearly not a proper Zelda game, series, it's a lot of fun. Now, Nintendo, when are #14: The Legend of Zelda: GameCube exactly what a party game should look like: weren't quite so straightforward. This series had men who dressed like elves. Tossing four players who can flick Ganondorf with a towel the greatest though, even if it's the last time James is ever Eventually, Nintendo worked out how to manage each player a color-coded Link of their own and with both cooperative and competitive elements. but the fans who were lucky enough to play it And why would they have been "lucky" to play experience. Someone had to own a GameCube and a of four players would also need four Game In a way, that's cute; you need four "links" to way: Some of us need to spend money on food. in the series, and is one of the few that never that it's tough to sell a game when people need A game like Four Swords Adventures would have every system Nintendo has released since, It's not easy being a Nintendo fan, #13: The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons (2001) For the Oracle duology on the Game Boy Color, Which is usually meant metaphorically, but Zelda so...that part is literal. The keys are still of that. Anyway, you'd think that getting Nintendo franchises would be difficult, but apparently That developer had proven its worth SNES, and Game Boy, so Nintendo trusted them Actually, Nintendo expected there to be three did you know that Nintendo initially asked them release within four months of the previous game? eat and sleep, Capcom ended up negotiating a interlinked games we know today. They are based and sound effects. Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of talk about momentarily - are very similar games, as having a stronger emphasis on puzzles, while Many of the puzzles in Oracle of Seasons involve autumn, winter, and spring. He does this by which none of you should try at home. We're that its puzzles don't compare as favorably to but the games are about equal in terms of #12: The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages (2001) But why is it worth picking up both, I heard until now because I had to introduce the title are - ahem - linked. That pun never gets old, one of them, and using that password on the other Either game can be played first, you'll unlock the true final sequence, but there's Oracle of Ages takes place in the land Link will hop about through time, which is that Nintendo assured us happened in Ocarina or any other time Link altered history. But and the games carefully adhered to it, I promise. games on the timeline - which is totally and they definitely didn't invent a "hero fails" otherwise fit could still be included - well, it's: A Link to the Past, Link's Oracle of Ages. Perfectly simple. I'm lying, in which you read the Encyclopedia. According games is a different incarnation from the Link it's the same incarnation across all four. from the start, I assure you. Even the #11: Hyrule Warriors (2014) The Wii U is destined to be remembered as one of a half-step between the far-better-realized Wii is significant, though, as it is home to some of series was suddenly more willing to take risks. added as DLC to Mario Kart 8 to a zone in they have in common now - the very concept of for the first time in a long time. of the Wild would find the Zelda team actively allow it to endure. These new directions for Link willingness to take the series to new places The most surprising experiment was Hyrule with Koei Tecmo to create a Zelda-themed Not only was it a rare shift in genre for of Nintendo allowing any other developer to reserved that honor only for video-game royalty, The game ended up being a surprising success. And Tecmo was shocked to learn that during its first as well as it did during its first full week in experiment just as much as the developers did, and #10: The Legend of Zelda (1986) The game that kicked off the entire that's a testament to just how brilliantly Just as Super Mario Bros. nailed The Legend of Zelda nailed adventure. however. The Legend of Zelda took more than well, Adventure, released in 1980 for the Atari from screen to screen, collecting useful items, inspired by 1976's Colossal Cave Adventure; it game and gave it a graphical successor. and The Legend of Zelda was an even Was the first Zelda game perfect? Goodness, no, unfortunately commonplace for games at the time. and items with vague purposes all make the experience - exploration through dangerous areas The reason that the original Zelda ranks so highly long-running series is that it's still unique. In previous ideas and enhance them in ways that can though, none of the later games provided the same walk blindly into danger, or the same level of open-ended challenge, such a vast world ganging up to punish you for not paying attention...there's #9: The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap (2004) Capcom proved itself several times over in Oracle of Seasons, and Four Swords were N to let them develop the lone true The Minish Cap. So impressive was Capcom's handheld to them when it came to the series, and The Minish Cap remains one of the most beloved series overall and impressively unique. It borrows and it takes much of its structure from A Link to The game focuses on a previously unmentioned people responsible for hiding all of the goodies and in pots. Your companion in this game to shrink down to Minish size. This lets you but also causes enemies who were previously one of the series' most impressive and simplest that force you to completely rethink them. which you find and match Kinstones with NPCs. simple merchants or flavor-text dispensers. It and getting to know them. This alone makes the individuals, which is something the series has #8: Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity (2020) Age of Calamity really should have been a plenty of content just a few years earlier, and it the Wii U. A sequel was welcome, but as fans Nintendo doesn't usually feel obligated to new hardware. Additionally, Breath of the Wild various characters and flashbacks would pencil in your powers of observation, and your imagination. a Breath of the Wild prequel was doubly providing more on both ends of that To discuss the Breath of the Wild stuff surprises. As of this writing it's still but it has a larger scope than you might expect. to those who wanted to know about what The other half of the game is the Hyrule Warriors can translate to a solid musou experience, and it's more fully realized. The fact that catastrophic conflict gives weight to each one a world we've already seen decimated by them Musou games have their appeal rooted in waves those waves are each meaningful, as any one an entire social order. It's still a musou game, game, and it's far better than an unnecessary #7: The Legend of Zelda: A 3DS that Nintendo could have given us a 3D remake of we got an entirely new game with unique mechanics, The map was both lovingly recreated and expanded new ideas, and the result is one of the most It feels both fresh and familiar, The story is that paintings have learned but that's what I took away from it and I whole new way of exploring largely familiar ties in thematically with the "similar but The real innovation of A Link Between Worlds comes all of them very early - and use them to explore break from Zelda tradition. Instead of needing would allow you to access the next dungeon, you It was an experimental return to openness that of the Wild, and it works exceptionally well here. purple rabbit costume, who introduces himself is a mystery throughout the game, but I'm going Wockawocka! Oh, come on. It's hard to be funny #6: The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening (1993) The first proper Zelda game to have Link's Awakening not only showed that the series but that exploring new environments The game begins with Link setting sail that The weather started getting rough and you know the of Koholint Island and Link comes to realize This explains the game's bizarre characters is the fact that director Takashi Tezuka was had been more powerful, we might have gotten to The game includes some of the most interesting such as this one, in which you must work out how Fans and critics alike loved it, and it's often Considering the fact that it already gets all deserves even more love than all of the love. with the first being a deluxe port on the Game an optional photography side-quest, and, uh...color. The second remake was a more released in 2019 for the Switch. a thoughtless cash-in for the sake of #5: The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker (2002) Coming off the back of Ocarina of Time and one-two punches in the history of video games - And with the GameCube struggling to Nintendo had high expectations for it as well. fans to believe that it would lean into the Yes, people used words like "darker" and Peter Pan travels through time. But what and felt like a Saturday morning cartoon. focused on this seeming bait and switch...which Nintendo never claimed that The Wind Waker suggest that the tech demo was the next Zelda drew the wrong picture, and got upset at Nintendo The Wind Waker was great, whether or not you Link leading his surrogate daughter across the visual style itself, the fact is that it's aged and better than most games overall. It brought us and every character and enemy is brimming than any Zelda game before or since, captures a considering having Link physically mature over but the Link who confronts Ganondorf under the birthday, and the thrust of the narrative Of course, it's not perfect. It's shorter Triforce fragments quest was so dull that it very hard to undullify it, but humor, timelessness - The Wind In short, water great game. No, #4: The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past (1991) There's a strong argument to be made that A Link in the entire Zelda series, which is itself one of refined absolutely all of the best aspects of the that would define the sequels moving forward. before the quest proper kicks off? Bosses the items designed to kill them? All of those and it's a template that continues to serve not that have pulled inspiration from Zelda. essential to Zelda's identity, but which have The spin attack, angry chickens, themed dungeons, thing on the planet, even Kakariko Village. might well say that it feels like a loving Zelda experience down into a dinky little 16-bit in reality, it was the other way around, with that nearly every installment to follow has at all. A Link to the Past is a masterpiece that It even manages to make it clear where to go next exactly, you'll need to do along the way. struggled with, with the low point coming already sick of me" approach in Skyward Sword. but few of them match the mastery of the Past. Even if it does happen to catch Link during all been there, bud, it's okay. I'm just glad #3: The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (1998) Right, we imagine that a lot of you will be it says a lot about how great a game is when a clear about one thing: We debated putting this This high up the list, the rankings are tight, Judged solely on its own merits, Ocarina worthy of all of the praise it's received in the 25 years. If you played this game as a child, Playing it for the first time today, it might be it was for the series. Isn't it basically just the only with worse graphics and, puzzlingly, also uses that template almost flawlessly. smaller and its novelties feel less novel, but to its puzzle design to its characters. And while a dying world, Ocarina of Time might do the best get to see exactly what happens in a Link-less Bailey kept getting stunned in place by redeads. into the future and seeing the world you're and Ocarina of Time does a great job something illustrated, of course, by Link's It was a strengthening of the Zelda foundation You played previous Zelda games for You played Ocarina of Time to save the world. And #2: The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask (2000) So, yes, we're giving Majora's Mask the edge I think it's safe to say that, whichever we can all agree that they're both truly clearly and openly, the fact that Majora's this game couldn't have existed without that it owes to its immediate, celebrated predecessor. But Majora's Mask stands out for its focus on escalating dread, and for the sheer depth with It takes Ocarina's grand time-travelling adventure three-day cycle of hell, one that ends with in their own way, attempting to cope It's a smaller game, allowing the characters It relies on familiarity with Ocarina of Time so similar tasks and fight similar enemies while a definitive point of termination that arrives all over again. It's a messy and famously falling apart as you play it, which ends up having is the end. This is tenuous. At any point, the And as you fight against fate itself you'll see panic set in. Depression. Denial. fall apart. You'll see townspeople flee, though see the face of mortality itself not just bearing minute by minute, wherever you are on the map, not so much threatening the end of the world but of making it quick. It's one of Nintendo's thought-provoking, most unnerving, and best games. #1: The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild (2017) WiiU when we said that the original Zelda still offers toss you into the world and trust you to find lied to you. We'd never lie to you. We love you. of the Wild went right back to the original in the series was willing to let you bumble with little to no guidance. And our battered, Of course, it's not quite as directionless as you could ask for one. If you didn't know tower or a shrine, which would provide you found yourself in unforgiving terrain, you could But those things are really just evolutions of or solve problems for you; everything is still must be done. It's just that now, if you're nudge you just slightly back on course. to find their own fun. It's not a guided tour legs and perform minigames; it's a vast canvas And, for the first time in decades, each There are plenty of nits to pick, of course. The precious little brainpower. Traditional dungeons of a freeform journey on this scale, with so opportunities to get lost in the experience...well, All of which is to say that as great as for a sequel to improve upon it. Here's