Thank you to brilliant.org for supporting PBS. Life as we know it is carbon-based, There is another element on the of the key properties of carbon but I'm talking about silicon. So could All of the chemical machinery of life - carboan atom. At least as far as we know. If and abundance of life in the universe, we Perhaps the most popular alternative - at least in the xenomorphs of the Alien series to the giant So why are scifi writers so into silicon-based non-carbon prospect due to its chemical than carbon. So, can life be based on silicon? When we say life is carbon-based, we don't mean that literally every aspect of the based around the chemistry of carbon. Carbon an enormous variety of molecules which DNA &amp; RNA to amino acids &amp; proteins Biochemistry is by definition biochemists don't even write Carbon in their know that's supposed to be a Carbon atom. So why first life form happened to be carbon based, Or is carbon-based chemistry really the Ultimately, carbon's incredible utility comes which enable just the right stability. To understand this, Nature will always try to get to the lowest energy for example, is in a high energy state due to its nitroglycerine. If the atoms find a way explosively releasing that energy in the molecules. Nitroglycerine is unstable to break its tenuous bonds, which in turn initiating a chain reaction. That reaction not energetically favourable to reassemble Life is basically an ongoing chemical of life to be unidirectional. You don't the same overly-stable molecules, with no which for life means ...well, death. At the the work of life to be stable enough - they In other words, you want a balance Let's figure out what elements might And to start we're going to open up to the entire The key is in what types of chemical bonds a given ionic, metallic, and covalent. while metallic bonds result in repeating the chemical variety needed for life. In these, atoms share electrons with up their outer or valence shells. For example, maximum stability. It achieves that stability their single electron. This also gives each to fill up its own valence shells. The The cool thing about covalent bonds is that there enabling enormous diversity if we remove a hydrogen from two methane ethane. Now replace one of the hydrogens Covalent bonds are the key to the complex and With this in mind we can look at the Periodic mostly ionic or metallic bonds, which is actually at forming covalent bonds, even if they We can also rule out Noble Gasses since they are they're just too much trouble. It's hard to get element at the same time, and when they react with Finally, we're going to scrap elements in rows 4 these atoms are so large that the with enough strength, leading By the way, this is the reason Arsenic is toxic. Arsenic in place of Phosphorus due to them having happens the resulting molecules will break, or interrupting important processes, and In the end we are left with only seven elements: Phosphorus, and Sulfur. Of these, all but silicon on Earth. Other elements are used by life for nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, and sulfur are by far the more critical because it provides the good for this is that it forms strong bonds with of the 6 building blocks of life, only carbon In our process of identifying elements that building blocks plus silicon. But why This seems weird because silicon also having 4 valence electrons. Silicon and rings, and the resulting molecules often have To give you just one example we can make like other kinds of oil. It's the only covalent scaffolds and supporting a large Earth life makes less use of silicon than it This seems extra strange when you remember the mass of Earth's crust, in all them silicate around 0.02% of the crust. This tells us that silicon. So let's talk about some of the One huge one is that silicon-based molecules carbon-based. In fact, although diverse, most complex silicon You can see how this would be a problem for In general, life needs a solvent - a machinery to move around and interact. Water power as a solvent, and abundance and perhaps even the only decent choice of the silicon molecules in water is actually a huge However water is not the only option. A much are stable in liquid hydrocarbons - which and even in sulphuric acid, which Both cases have their issues - liquid hydrocarbons trouble holding in solution the large, complex acid is chemically extremely aggressive, On the other hand, xenomorphs are silicon-based they're silicon -in-sulphuric-acid-based. let's cancel the cloud city construction There is one way to potentially get silicon-based with either carbon or oxygen for our scaffolding produce some chemical diversity. However neither just using carbon chains. Another reason that element for life is that the stuff really, Silicon forms stronger bonds with oxygen than and certainly more so than Silicon-based molecules are and silicon-oxygen bonds are hard to tend to go in one direction when there's silicon-oxygen bond is perhaps the main reason Although there's an awful lot of rocks and is inaccessible to life. On the CO2 in the atmosphere, which is relatively There is one sense in which the strength of the and that's in energy generation. Let's It's from the conversion of oxygen molecules bonds - into CO2 molecules - which contain very to set something on fire, which works great The mitochondria in our eukariot cells finally storing it in the ATP molecule. So converting O2 into silicon-dioxide? because SIO2 is even more stable than The problem is that while CO2 is silicon-dioxide is silica ... it's sand. It's It's not something you want building up in your amount of sand. A regular person exhales about meaning Silicon aliens would need to cough out or something - probably there's a way around the energy-cheap as exhaling CO2. And with life, Let's summarize. In certain conditions silicon alien biochemistry, but those conditions are that the ones that support carbon-based life. It then it should do so. But it's not impossible that But what would that life even look like? For decades science fiction authors have of living crystals or rocks, that's because that's But we carbon-based creatures don't look so there's no reason to think of silicon-based Well, actually. There is a reason. And that's on Earth. Let me present you to Diatoms. These Silicon into their cell walls, making them that encapsulate all the parts of the cell inside lives. They just float around in the ocean half of the oxygen that we breath. Now to be it's just their cell walls. Everything inside a proof of concept that one important component of OK, so what have we learned? Well, silicon-based fiction compared to their likely frequency carbon-in-water is such an astoundingly good other game in town. Even Carl Sagan called We'll probably be more similar than different to not ignore the hydrocarbon lakes of Titan or the critters may expand our notion of what is Thank you to Brilliant.org for supporting PBS. Brilliant is an online learning platform for STEM for curious learners, both young and old, courses teach you how to think via interactive For example, Brilliant.org offers The principles of quantum mechanics came the bizarre behavior of quantum objects like atoms contradict classical mechanics and probability. quantum objects and use them to construct new a new system of measurement based not on numbers appreciation for how the physics of the small technologies that define our world. Then you'll quantum information and computing. To learn more Today we're doing comment responses for the simulations that show how our moon formed from before. And the one on Max Tegmark's mathematical fundamental reality is a platonic realm of onebronx opines that the basic math of our and the GR equation, but the principle of mutually-consistent symmetries. I absolutely the mathematical universe hypothesis is true, by the platonic existence of a complicated set of rules. In the mathematical universe from a more fundamental mathematical world. structures can't also be emergent from simpler, S. Lee Odegard mentions that we should have ontology, in which reality is described as three I agree, and this was totally going to be in the overview - Penrose proposes this way of thinking the material world as emerging from a platonic the possibility of mathematical regularities, the mental world emerges from the material - in and finally the platonic world emerges from to conceive of the full language of mathematics This is pretty different from Tegmark's idea precursor to everything else. Penrose doesn't I ultimately decided to leave that If anyone wants to read about this, get Penrose's reading it is a full semester intensive physics OK, and now on to the far less abstract that we name Theia smashed markcentral mentioned an idea I'd never intact Theia material may still There are these high density blobs of material and core called the Large low-shear-velocity this is material from the planet that collided loose evidence that isotopic ratios in basalt regions above the LLSVPs have "primitive" isotopic in the giant impact. Very cool possibility, Alice asks: If the moon is a very unlikely event, to protect the development of life, does this the Fermi paradox? The answer is: we don't know, case. My personal intuition is that the extremely is actually a chain of somewhat hard filters, include having a planetary composition like ours system but only small terrestrial planets in and so on. Check our video on the rare I'd like to address a comment about my fluids episode where I joked that there are gas - they're called birds. Several people noted as Xovvo notes, and I quote "Bat wings are formed between digits two through five. Bird hands fused together into a structure called the digits II and III (digit I bearing the alula, Birds just have very long feathers to form lot from my mistake - both regarding the size jokes should be subject to rigorous research and Several people noticed that I flubbed when and said Titan, which is of course Saturns moon. Thanks to those in the comments who wondered if we don't pronounce r's after t's or something. me misspeak it's actually just how Aussies all Australian birds have gigantic hands,