You have heard many incredible stories about the heroes of Azovstal. But I couldn't believe this one myself for a long time: a military man with the call sign &quot;East&quot; is the only one who did not get captured from Azovstal, but he stayed on the territory of the plant, somehow hid from the Russians for a week, then walked almost 200 km across the territory , which was already occupied by the enemy, and returned to the territory of Ukraine. My name is Serhiy Peychev, this is the &quot;Pressing&quot; channel. The story is actually ready for Netflix, so be sure to like this video right now and of course subscribe to the channel. So you will not miss important and high-quality materials. - There were many heroes, many legends in Azovstal. When I heard about your story (a long time ago), I honestly didn't believe it. Because I thought it was impossible. But until you tell how it happened, how you left Azovstal, and hid there, stayed there, tell me a little about yourself. How did a guy from Luhansk end up in Azov? Did any of your friends and relatives end up in the so-called LPR? - Yes, I was born in the city of Luhansk, took part in pro-Ukrainian movements, took part in rallies, in skirmishes with pro-Russian, so-called forces. And at one point in 2014, people told me that, so to speak, people are already interested in me and it is desirable for me to leave the city. Well, I don't think for a long time, I already left the city, during this time my friend Akseon died in Azov, he is also from Luhansk, later in February another friend of mine from Luhansk died in Azov - the Champion already in the Shyrokinsky Operation. And this was probably the last straw and I decided to go to Azov after all. And in 2015, in the first half of the year, I applied for two weeks of basic training in the Azov regiment. And so I ended up in the regiment. - You stopped your service in Azov and started living in Kyiv. - That is, in 2020. Yes, I resigned for the Azov regiment and tried to find myself in civilian life. - You told me before the interview that you didn't like life in Kyiv, you didn't like it. Why? - Well, I don't know, just for any job, yes, if you go there for some job - the standard of living, which I would like for myself, is probably insufficient. Living there from paycheck to paycheck all my life without any perspective - I was not very attracted, so I decided to find some unusual job and at the same time interesting, in my opinion. - And you are carried to the shores of Somalia. So explain how it happened. - Well, here I am. I found it... I was still looking for exits to Afghanistan, when it was possible to get there. Some Ukrainians were on this job, but somehow I managed to get a job faster on civilian ships, to protect them from the so-called Somali pirates. - Are Somali pirates dangerous? Is what you encountered in Ukraine a kindergarten? - But I, in principle... I did not have any combat encounters with Somali pirates. The highest activity of Somali pirates was recorded from 2009 to somewhere in 2013, and then everything went down. And today there is almost no such thing. And this is only business and civilian vessels that pass through the Gulf of Aden or the Red Sea - they are obliged to buy insurance and hire armed guards. - I understand that you learned on the ship that the war had begun. And not on the first day of a full-scale invasion. - It so happened that I got the Internet only on February 26, and already there the telegram was bursting with messages about events in Ukraine. I couldn't even download pictures there, because the Internet was very bad, I could only see the text, and I urgently contacted the company via satellite, said that I was breaking the contract and demanded that I be returned to Ukraine. - You are a young guy who earns good money abroad. I understand that it was not super hard work near the coast of Somalia. Why did you return to Ukraine? Not just to fight, but you also flew to Mariupol. - I simply would never have forgiven myself if I had not taken part in the war for Ukraine, and would have stayed somewhere abroad in some country, in complete safety, when my friends die and show great heroism there for the sake of Freedom. - You told me the same before this video that when you got into the helicopter to Mariupol, you didn't even have a military uniform. How did it happen? What did you fly in? It's interesting to feel that atmosphere. - Yes, in Ukraine at the beginning of the full-scale invasion, there was a terrible shortage of any military equipment, uniforms, ammunition. Well, it was almost impossible to find anything, because everything were bought even in the nearest European countries, Ukrainians also bought everything there. That is, even in Europe it was difficult to deal with it, so we had to fly in what was available. I couldn't get to my home in Irpin, because that part of Irpin was already occupied by the enemy, so I couldn't take my ammunition, which I still had from my old service in Azov, and I just flew in civilian pants, in a civilian jacket, but in a bulletproof vest, a helmet with a machine gun and a Soviet pouch for four magazines. -Then, I understand that in the battles I acquired better weapons and ammunition for myself... -Yes, I sometimes had to remove equipment from my dead comrades and use it for my own purposes. - There were employees of the main intelligence agency on the helicopters, every soldier had the same civilian clothes, what were the plans? So I understand that everything could change. Because someone was shot down, someone flew in... - We were told before the operation that: &quot;You are flying to Mariupol, the best pilots of this country will deliver you.&quot; I was so skeptical about it at first, I thought that they were probably saying it just to calm us down. But still, when we when we took off, and I realized that it was really so. These are really the best pilots of this country. And we also had an order to take civilian clothes with us, and in case.. There everything was divided into the so-called &quot;point of no return&quot;. If, for example, we were beaten to the &quot;point of no return&quot; and someone remained alive, then we would have to return to the controlled territory of Ukraine. And if we passed the point of no return, then we would have to independently break through to Mariupol and connect with our units. And we were told that if the GUR officer who was a machine gunner in the helicopter survives , he will be the commander, he will take you out on foot either to Mariupol or back to the controlled territory. If it so happens that he dies, and one of you survives, then you also perform this function, but at your own discretion, so to speak, you will perform it. Either back or forward to Mariupol. -Flying at very low altitudes, especially in a helicopter, when you don't understand anything: where, what. When you realized that this was already Mariupol, some of its outskirts, what was the atmosphere like inside? Was it scary? Or on the contrary, did you rejoice? - Everyone shouted very loudly, rejoiced, laughed. When we were already rushing from the village of Rybatsky, flying towards the sea and entering the territory of the Azovstal plant from the sea, it was just such an atmosphere of joy. We realized that we had almost flown, that we had won, that we successfully completed this little adventure and still reached Mariupol, that we were not shot down, that we were still alive. But it was still necessary to go through the battles in Mariupol with dignity . - I understand that you also had your own commander in the helicopter? - Yes, it was a real Celt hero. Unfortunately, for some reason the state did not award him the title &quot;Hero of Ukraine&quot;, but only Bohdan Khmelnytskyi of the third degree. But I believe that he is really an example man, a man - a real hero, who led the first helicopter landing party, in which I was a part. He died, unfortunately, the next day in close combat with a tank, he tried to knock out a tank and, unfortunately, died. - We often watch movies about the war, they are mostly some American movies, Netflix... And in moments like yours, when you fly to Mariupol, does the commander say something, some motivational words? Is it like that in life? Is it completely different? - Celt - he was, I saw that he was probably the happiest person at that moment. Because he wanted to get to Mariupol, he wanted to get to Commander Redis. And Mariupol was his hometown. And I was probably also very happy that I was able to join Azov, my family and share my fate with them. -When you set foot on the land of Mariupol, did you feel that you would make it to the end? Do you understand that this is probably the final point? Because you are going to hell itself? As most of you say it's like a one-way ticket, was it that real? Because many cool warriors with super skills, unfortunately, they died there even in the first days. - Yes, when I flew there, I fully understood that I would most likely die in the battles for Mariupol. But I was happy that it would be together with my Azov brothers. - The people who arrived by helicopter, as I understand it, the intensity of the fighting was such that, as you say, Celt actually died on the first day, and there were still people who also died very quickly.. - Yes, yes, and there was also a fighter &quot;Melkiy&quot;, my brother, we went to Azov together with him and flew in the same helicopter, he was an active Azov soldier. That is, we were volunteers, and there were seven more active Azov soldiers there, who were ordered to return to Mariupol, because they did not have time to return to Mariupol during the full-scale invasion, because they were performing tasks in another part of the front, on the Svitlodarskaya Arc, as it were. And &quot;Melky&quot; was an active Azov and, unfortunately, he also died the next day. - When you enter the territory of Australia, you are seen by your brothers who remember you there before. What are they telling you? I understand, it's not always some kind of censored words, someone is shocked, someone else is in a different state . : &quot;How did you end up here?&quot; And I say: &quot;Well, I flew in,&quot; and they: &quot;Well, you're stupid,&quot; and then they smile and hug. Sometimes some people asked if I regretted coming here. I always tried so hard to support their fighting spirit and answered with a smile that: &quot;I am happy to be here with you.&quot; And before we get to the most interesting part, I would like to remind you to support the armed forces of Ukraine in the same way as our friends from the FavBet Foundation do, one of the directions in which they are engaged on a stable basis is wheelbarrows for the armed forces of Ukraine. In total, 220 vehicles have already been transferred for combat missions, and this number will only grow. Support our main team - the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and already in your free time enjoy Ukrainian sports together with Fawbet, I leave the link in the pinned comment under this video. A welcome bonus of up to UAH 10,000 will await you there. No one will take away our passion. We will return to the stands in our hometowns. FavBet - we support Ukrainian football. - One of your first operations, or indeed the first operation - you were wounded there. How did it happen? I understand that you also got into a not very pleasant situation on the very first day. - Yes, I could also die on the first day. There were not always competent commanders, and it so happened that one of the commanders to whom I.. that is, we flew by helicopter, and we were all simply scattered all over the front to different participants. That is, we hardly saw each other after that. And so it happened that one of the commanders allocated us a soldier &quot;Archiya&quot;, he was a senior, and he gave him an order to take us to a house in the center of the city, but I understand that he probably did not know the situation, he did not understand that that house was already occupied by the enemy, he did not understand what was there. We had to change someone, and he, I understand, didn't even understand whether those guys were still alive, whether that position held or not. And we didn't even reach that house 300-400 meters away and were ambushed. The three boys ran across the intersection, I ran the fourth, and it was on me that the machine gunner opened fire from a tall building, somewhere there was the fourth floor. And he, I think, a machine gunner, took the wrong correction and the machine gun line hit my feet and the bullet ricocheted and hit my fingers on my hand. My glove was covered in blood, I thought that my fingers must have come off, but they just stayed in the glove. But then &quot;Archiya&quot; gave me an order, it just so happened that they were on one side of the intersection, I was on the other, &quot;Archiya&quot; gave me an order to help myself, I just took off my glove and realized that the wound was not serious, there was just enough blood . And he just rewound, did everything, and it so happened that &quot;Archiya&quot; wanted to somehow understand the situation, moved a little away from the wall and was shot in the head by an enemy sniper, and he died instantly. And we immediately found ourselves without a walkie-talkie, without a map, because he had it all . And, of course, we couldn't approach it, because it was a sniper's target area. We found a few houses back, found Ukrainian fighters and decided to stay with them until night, then when we were able to take the body of &quot;Arachiya&quot; at night, we contacted our command on the radio station, explained the situation, and we were ordered to stay with those guys and to hold the defense of the university. - I wonder, in general, you come to a city where there are really soldiers, all brutal men, how you were perceived not by the people of Azov, who knew you, but by the rest of the military? Because you are visually young a guy, even without a beard, which, for example, helped you a lot after you left Azovstal. What was the attitude? Because, in principle, you know a lot, you can do a lot, but visually - well, you're a young boy. -Unfortunately, the group we got into was very morally unstable, weakness and did not want to break through and surrendered. When I saw these conversations, I somehow tried to convince them, but when I realized that they were morally and psychologically suppressed, I realized that I had to deal with them... well, that is, it happened that our position was breached. We began to retreat, the flanks also collapsed, and I simply ask the commander: &quot;Where is the reserve position?&quot;, and he says: &quot;I don't know, I don't know anything, I won't lead, I won't do anything.&quot;... well, officer. And then we were already driven into the outermost building there, the infantry was also advancing, enemy defense equipment was constantly driving in our neighborhood and infantry was coming from above. I'm just saying that we won't go out as a whole group, we need to split up into two or three people and go out. And at this moment they did not want to do it. They said: &quot;We will surrender as prisoners, because there life is better than death, we will all be beaten&quot; and so on. Well, when the commander started to broadcast it, I told him: &quot;So find yourself those who will surrender with you.&quot; And after that, most of the boys did not support me, namely the panic commander. And yet I saw several boys who were still silent and did not say anything, and I understood that they were in doubt about what to do. And I just said I'm taking one person with me for in deep enemy rear. During the day they hid, and at night they went and finally on the third day, exhausted, but still managed to connect with their forces. - You told me about this group earlier, that you were stormed by infantry, you had to go out to defend positions. And I understand, commander, people did not want to do it, morally they simply could not overcome it. What did they say? - Well, it's just that when we, our university we were in, were destroyed by a tank and an armored personnel carrier, we lowered ourselves a little and went down a little to the basement. But when the enemy's armored vehicles stopped working, it was a sign that the enemy's infantry would now go on a sweep. And it was at this moment that it was necessary to go out and carry out the attack. When I addressed the commander, I said: &quot;Well, you're an officer, put people in position,&quot; and he just shook and said that he wasn't taught this at the academy. Well, I tried to take the initiative into my own hands and persuaded three people and three or four people, who nevertheless came out of the basement and the four of us carried out enemy infantry attacks quite successfully, until we were set on fire and the fire started. - You and the sergeant went on a breakthrough. Those guys stayed there, I understand they were captured, right? - Most likely, yes. - What happened to them next? - I don't know. - What happened next with the sergeant? I understand that your adventures there have only just begun? All the same, there are a lot of Russians, you found yourself in a deep environment. So how is it moral when you understand: there are kilometers ahead and everything is surrounded by the enemy? - We had a plan with him that we should go to ours as quietly as possible, without shooting, without any noise . Or we understood that no one would help us, no one knew about us, we didn't have a walkie-talkie, we didn't have any communication. And we could not move during the day, we only moved at night. And during the day they hid in some ruins, basements and so on. We also ran into the enemy, sometimes unexpectedly, because our task was not to run into the enemy. But there was a case when they came across an enemy and had to eliminate him. - You tell it so simply. There was a case when a Russian spoke to you like that, what was that dialogue like? Because it even sounds scary. And when you find yourself in that place and you realize that you will definitely have to shoot, make noise. How was it? - It so happened that in Mariupol it was almost impossible to move silently, because there was a lot of glass from windows, some kind of iron on the asphalt, and it all crunches and makes noise at every step, and the enemy heard us, and he just shouted loudly like: &quot;Stop! Who's coming ?&quot; Well, I answered: &quot;My own.&quot; He asked again: &quot;Who?&quot;, me I understood that if there were no Ukrainians here, I replied that &quot;Yours, Russia.&quot; He said that &quot;Wait, let's come up now, we'll figure it out.&quot; Well, at that moment, I simply switched the fuse to automatic fire mode, and as soon as the silhouette of a person appeared from the darkness, I - What was the sergeant doing at the same time? Because I think he was a little bit shocked by it all. - Well, that's all, I just did it and said: &quot;Leave&quot;, and he did everything, everything is fine. Well, that is, he reacted normally there. Well, he didn't have time to shoot, he didn't even expect what I would do. He probably didn't understand, but when I gave clear commands, he always did everything, as it should. - You destroyed the enemy in the deep rear. Then some kind of bickering begins? They are looking for you, I understand? - Yes, we ran into one of the yards and heard something from the entrance, well, some noise in the entrance. I gave the command to just lie down there for cover and about six fully equipped and armed men ran out. I just whisper to the sergeant: &quot;It's for our soul&quot;, he says: &quot;I understand&quot; and that's it. They ran, they ran where there was shooting, but we were still able to leave that city by the yards, the private sector, and the search groups, the so-called rapid reaction groups of the enemy, could not find us. I really liked how you said that you didn't just move around whenever you wanted. That you picked up some certain hours there. Even at night. How did this system work? When was it right to do it, at what hours, I don't know, is the enemy most relaxed? - The enemy is most relaxed somewhere from one to two or three o'clock - this is the most inconvenient time for a person, both physically and for nighttime activity. This is the best time to sleep. When a person has to do something, attention drops a little , vision works worse, some receptors and so on. Well, it's just that a person understands a little worse. In order to keep more of our soldiers alive and healthy, we need weapons and drones. The &quot;Eye for an eye&quot; project helps with this, which you can also join, for example, filling the pulse of revenge on Okko. From every liter, one hryvnia goes to the project fund, and the result of your fillings is very powerful. For example, your gas stations have already turned into 25 Shark air complexes, they are already in our military, they are cool Ukrainian drones that scout and adjust Hymars. With their help, enemy equipment worth hundreds of millions of dollars has already been destroyed. 318 million hryvnias have already been collected for weapons for waste disposal. The entire batch of machine guns and the first batch of mortars are already with the military, there is very little left until the final goal. And this, let me remind you, is 400 million hryvnias. Therefore, refuel your cars with pulse or donate to the special account of the &quot;Return Alive&quot; fund and arm yourself with TRO to the teeth. An eye for an eye. -You traveled dozens of kilometers through the territory of the temporary enemy, surely? - Well, about 10, I think, but we just couldn't... Yes, it seems that you can walk 10 kilometers there in a day. But we could not go that fast, because we did it in short distances. You just walked 100 meters there, then you sit on your knees, listen to everything around you, who is talking, who is talking, and so on. And we had to stop a lot, listen to the terrain in order to reduce the chances of encountering the enemy. -The closest distance between you and the enemy? They were still patrolling, searching... About one and a half meters, when the enemy group passed by us and did not notice. And I said.. Well, I was just covering one sector, when we stopped like that, listening to the terrain, a soldier was covering another sector.. and there a house was on fire, and a patrolling group of the enemy just came out of the smoke from the burning house: three people. And he simply tells me: &quot;The enemy is coming&quot;, they were about 100 meters away from us, but they were going in our direction. And we just pressed together, sat on our knees, pressed against the fence, and I said: &quot;If...&quot; Well, I just... I couldn't go back in their direction, because it would be an additional noise, and maybe they saw. I simply remained to cover another sector. I said that if at least one of them turns his head towards us and sees us, immediately open fire, that I will also return and shoot. But he must do it first, because he was already looking at them. He said: &quot;Okay&quot;, but it so happened that they were just talking about something one and a half meters away and passed, we were not noticed. - To this camera, I think, about 2 m. How could you not see from one and a half.. and - Well, it was a dark time, because we pressed against the fence, there were still some bushes and, perhaps, we somehow merged with the terrain and that's all, and the enemy too, maybe somewhere he was inattentive. They talked about something there, walked there, talked about something calmly, they could not expect that there could be an enemy for them in such a deep rear. - Listen, well, you probably sat there wet, because I don't know how it is psychologically not to pull the trigger when the enemy is so close.. Your nerves could have already given up. - Well, I will say that this guy is a very good soldier. And he clearly followed the commands: if you need to shoot - shoot, if not - he did not shoot. I was just telling him what to do. And he always did what was needed. - I think you still met some locals? - Yes, we met. On one of the days when we were going out, we met two women who gave us food, they helped us, and understanding that we are Ukrainians, that there are Russians around, and that if the Russians find out that they helped us, then they too, perhaps, some bad fate awaits. But still, they treated us as surely as their children, and gave us food and water. I am very grateful. If they see this interview there.. Thank you! - Were there any such &quot;pro-Russian&quot; locals, for whom you were afraid and really did not approach? Because surely different people were there? - Of course, there were, but they did not show themselves in any way, because it was also a serious threat to any civilian - to show themselves somewhere there or there to say: &quot;I am for Ukraine&quot; or to us or the enemy, to say that they are for Ukraine or to tell us what kind of Russia they are there... Well, of course, it was a threat to them, I think too, and they somehow tried to appear neutral, just to do their survival there and so on. - How many days have you been moving like this? Did you have any more or less adequate sleep there? Food? - No, it was when we were treated to food and it was the only time when we ate and drank. We simply had neither food nor water. And almost at the end, we still broke into one house, climbed through the window and found more water there and just made tea and slept there for probably an hour and a half. - How many days are these food supplies? - Since I arrived, we divided the soup among everyone, that is, I ate a small part of the soup, then what the civilian women gave us, there was half a portion of soup each. We ate and drank tea and found some sugar there. And they just ate more sugar, just to somehow add glucose, some kind of energy. - You moved to our position. I understand that it was not Azovstal, but some other plant? - Yes, we were moving in the direction of the cannery, because I saw that our positions should be there, but when we got there, the Ukrainian forces already abandoned those positions, many things were left, but no one was there and there were no enemies and no Ukrainians was not. But we understood that they left these positions recently. Because there was even coffee and tea there, there were some energy drinks. LED lights from the battery were burning and there we found another can of zucchini caviar, we just started eating it and heard that armored vehicles were entering the territory of the cannery. We understood that we need to cross the river, because we are just in the edge there, well, it's just the edge of the city and then the river and the sea and everything, and it's impossible to go anywhere. And I already thought that we would swim by hand. It was the end of March. I don't know.. well, the water temperature is very cold there, but at the last moment we found such an inflatable.. rescue vessel can be said to be small and we rowed fast and managed to reach the peninsula. They swam across the river with a friend on a life raft. Now we are sitting in the landing, eating nuts. And sugar. The sounds of war. Now we are afraid to cross over to our own, so that we are not shot by our own, because they might mistake us for the enemy. - When we reached the peninsula, it was the so-called &quot;gray zone&quot;, that is, the enemy was already entering the cannery , and on the other side there was another river and Azovstal was already there, where ours is. But we didn't have any communication and we understood that we could even come under the fire of our forces when we crossed to the other side of the peninsula. I was looking for another boat to cross another river, and we were even fired upon from Azovstal, thinking that we were enemies. We hid and then we found it an ordinary wooden boat with oars and were able to quickly cross the river and get to the Azovstal plant, there and there we simply raised our hands, pretended to be the first to get there to some border guard post, explained who we were, they relayed this information on the radio and took us to the headquarters. - It was n't scary to go that way, come to Azovstal and you might just be overwhelmed by your own people? Some two guys come in from where it is not clear.. - Well, I fully understood that and therefore I gave the command to the soldier: &quot;Put the machine gun behind your back and raise your hands&quot; simply and that's all, so that no one would even think of shooting at us. - You went to Azovstal, I understand that you are already there somewhere, well, at least morally buried, you disappeared a long time ago, there is no news from you, nothing? - Yes, the soldier was already considered missing, even his mother called and said that he was missing, and when we came to the headquarters, the hero of Ukraine &quot;Shlega&quot; saw him today, he was the commander of unit 3057 and he called me, shook my hand, thanked me , says: &quot;Thank you for taking out the conscript,&quot; and I told him that I didn't take him out. We went out together, as a team: we were two soldiers and took the initiative together, so that no one like a child was led out by the handle. But he still said: &quot;Thank you&quot; and shook his hand. So they gave the conscript to immediately contact the mother, and he informed the mother that he had been found. - And what happened to him next? - So it happened. that we were supposed to come under the command of the first battalion in the Onyx group, but for some reason it so happened that I already fought a little further on different... nearby, but in different areas of defense. - Civilians will never say that people who were in Azovstal are not heroes, but people who were in Azovstal, fighters, you and Ruslan David often said that not everyone there was super brave, that not everyone can be called heroes. Why so? -So. It really was like that, not all who were in Mariupol are heroes, many people were simply hiding in bunkers, looking for some incomprehensible occupations, excuses to find and not defend positions. I do not know. Well, they probably tried to prolong their lives in the way of cowards, maybe. - What were they doing all these days? There is no food there. - Well, someone just sat in the bunker and did nothing. Someone found a job there, for example, sitting there as a translator on a walkie-talkie, right? Although it is possible to put a person with an average injury on such a job, right? And she will perform. And that healthy person could fill the front ranks of the defense, but many people even when they tell people that we have losses, we need people, we go to positions, they... Well, some people were looking for an excuse, they went somewhere and simply refused to go. - I know that you also survived an airstrike. Few people are alive and well after that, giving interviews. How did it happen? What is it anyway? - An aerial bomb hit our shelter, 8 people died there. Fortunately , I and some of my brothers were a little more lucky there and we were able to get out and stay alive. This is where our guys fell asleep. An aerial bomb arrived. About 9 people were lost. We cannot get under the rubble. We were lucky - we were in that part of the building. They miraculously survived. I will list the fighters who died with the callsigns: with the callsigns &quot;Death&quot;, &quot;Grandfather&quot;, &quot;Caspius&quot;, &quot;Bula&quot;, &quot;Maxar&quot;, &quot;Stimul&quot;, &quot;Char&quot; and &quot;Canister&quot;. After 13 or 14 hours we were given the task of me and my brother for those who remained alive to find a new shelter. I suggested to my friend to go through the place where we were broken on the night of May 9. And I thought that I would regret it for the rest of my life if I didn't just shout out there if there was someone alive, and so on. I started shouting and my comrade, he heard an answer from under the rubble, and we managed to call out there, then the fighter &quot;Pascha&quot;, who will die in the terrorist attack in Olenivka, also took the most active part in rescuing this fighter. It was a fighter with the call sign &quot;Vam&quot;, he was from some part of the Armed Forces, I don't remember, but we were able to get one person out from under the rubble after about 15 hours. - You understand that most of the guys are so big that it was you who climbed into the most difficult places. -Yes, and even where this fighter was... Even I couldn't get through. And that's why we called &quot;Pascha&quot;, he is even smaller than me, and he was already able to reach him, assess the situation, he asked us to bring a jack to lift the slab that was lying on the twin and we were able to pull it out. - How to pull out a person? Huge concrete slabs weighing tons are falling. - Well, somehow he got into such an airy bag, and he was simply squeezed from all sides, but not crushed, and he was the only one who managed to be saved. - What kind of story was it that you called a surgeon to cut off a person's legs and pull him out like that? - And that was a different story, there were still battles not in Azovstal, but in a residential quarter on the left bank, and an aerial bomb also flew in, completely penetrating the entire house, including the basement, our comrades also died there, but two somehow survived, we penetrated the wall and saw that their legs were simply pressed by a fallen slab, and everything is fine with the body, they are alive, and we spent about 10 hours engaged in this rescue operation. This operation also hosted many people, including my commander Onyx, a real man and warrior, who led the unit. Well, there is a part of the territory where the defense of Mariupol was conducted. And for about 10 hours we tried to somehow pull them out, we couldn't do it, there was no way... not to jack up that slab, well, nothing at all. After all, they managed to get one person out, but there was already a lot of smoke in that basement, some burning rubber was already dripping there, and when we called the medics, we simply suggested that this person's legs be amputated in order to get him out. alive.. But this doctor refused to do it. Maybe he was afraid. Maybe he just didn't have the tools for it or just thought we were sick. Nevertheless, I already saw that there was already a flame, the fire was approaching, everything was in smoke, and I simply understood that if I didn't get him out there in the next 20 minutes, he would die. And he offered another idea of his to bring such ropes for evacuation, for towing the car. And he was lying a little sideways, and I grabbed one of his legs, in the knee area, I used it as a lever, and I asked Onyx and another guy more physically developed than me to pull his leg and try to pull him out from under the slab. They managed to pull out one leg, then they sent me to climb back in there. I had already attached this rope to the other leg in the same way, but when Onyx and the boys also pulled out the leg, it turned out that even the rope could not hold and it simply broke. We had to run after one more, and on the second attempt we were able to tear out the other leg as well. - What were your tasks in Azovstal? I understand that most of the soldiers went on some tasks and returned. Did you have a slightly different job? - During most of the battles for Mariupol, I had the task of being on the front line and restraining the enemy. That is, to be directly on the front line as an infantryman, but in recent weeks I was ordered to deliver with my brothers (there was a group of people who were engaged in providing units) and we walked all day throughout the plant, hauling ammunition from one place in another They also brought food, dug it up from a warehouse destroyed by aircraft. That is, we dug up rubble, got some food, put it together and then carried it to the advanced positions. And at one point there was an order for our group from the commander - to bring the last six shells for LNG - this is the most difficult thing that we had left from the armament. It was already May 15, and on the same day all 15 shots were fired in the direction of the enemy. And only the garrison had some small arms. - Did you receive information that you need to be taken prisoner? Were there already such rumors spreading among the fighters? - Well, it was the first time for me. For some reason, I thought that we would all die here or that we would still be given the command to go to the breakthrough, but the command made a different decision, which I agree with, it was a smart decision. Because we had a very large number of wounded, and in order to save the lives of the seriously wounded, we definitely had to take this step. But the garrison of Mariupol still fulfilled, I believe, its task and won time for Ukraine. - The most interesting moment for me - I had to get out of Azovstal in order to save more lives. How did it happen that you did not leave, but stayed in Azovstal? - Yes, an order came from the President - to save life, and I decided to carry out this order in a slightly different way, because I thought I had a chance. - Okay, the command gives the command: &quot;We all leave.&quot; You had a choice: do I want to stay? Or how did it happen? were you allowed Were you not allowed? - Formally, I arrived, I was a little in another part. I flew to help the garrison. When we flew there, we were clearly told that when you fly there, you must follow the orders of the Mariupol garrison command, perform tasks, help, and so on. But you must understand that there will be no help for you. Well, what are you there, in which case you should act at your own discretion. That is, I was simply legally and formally not even in the unit that defended Mariupol there. - Did you still have a commander? - Yes, of course, I had a platoon commander, I approached him, explained my position, my situation and asked him not to submit me to the lists of the Russians anywhere. And I was filed as just a missing person and that was it. - You go to the commander and say: &quot;I'll stay here&quot;, so what does he tell you, honestly? I think he was a little surprised? - Yes, he was surprised, but still he accepted my decision, each of my platoon shook my hand, wished me success, that everything would work out and everything. - Did they say goodbye to you, realizing that this was all? Were you given any chances? - I don't know, maybe someone thought, I don't know. - Okay, how did you prepare for yourself, I don't know, a place, a hiding place ? Can't you just stay there so you don't get noticed? Because everything possible was combed there. - I wouldn't say that you can't go unnoticed there. This is a large territory, a city within a city, one might say. And there were many such unremarkable places, where a person would never want to climb, and we found in one of them a simple sewer hatch and found a way to the side, dismantled the entrance there with a friend, brought (there was such a tunnel-like, you could say, underground room about three meters deep ) and we prepared mattresses there, some blankets and brought water, a little canned food, sugar, tea and so on. In general, we planned together, but at the last moment he still decided to be captured, and I was left alone. -When a friend said that &quot;I won't go with you&quot;, you didn't want to change your mind, surely you also didn't want to stay alone? Because by myself in this small room on a huge object, well, somehow... -When I have already decided something, I almost never change my decision. It was a very firm decision: yes or no. - Why did he change his mind? - Maybe he thought that there were more chances to be captured and stay alive, it was probably so. After all, they are still people who were captured , they had some status, there is international, prisoner of war and so on. And if you take such a step, then the struggle continues for you. That is, if people thought that everything had already ended in the worst way, then for you only the struggle continues. - Your friend who did not stay with you then and went into captivity, where is he now? - In captivity. -Still? - Yes, more than a year has passed until today, still in captivity. Although when they said that we need to leave and we will be replaced by the Mariupol garrison in three or four months , the Russians promised decent conditions, a quick exchange, and so on. But I understood that most likely it could drag on for years, and the Russians would very likely not keep their word. Well, it so happened that the promised time frame has already passed. And the fact that they said that there will be decent conditions for us is also, well, judging by those who came out of captivity, yes, we can see in what condition they come out? Unfortunately, they also failed to fulfill their promise. - I told you that a film could be made based on your story. Visualize it like this, it's not a room, it's some kind of room where you were. What is it, what size is it? So that people basically understand? - This is a dungeon in which there is no entrance or exit. I don't even know why it was built. It is tunnel-like, probably 1.20-1.30 m high, about 5 meters long and up to two meters wide. - Is it 1.20 m tall? - Yes, you can't, so you can't stand up there completely. And you can crawl around there or somehow, or move around half-bent. - How many days were you there? What did you do? - I stayed there for about a week, or seven days. And I used to do it... simply or cook it for myself there from sugar... Oh, we also brought these AHD 2000 there, it's a sanitizer and it's very nice to make a burner from this sanitizer. There we pour it into a jar from a can and throw it there you set a little cloth on fire and it burns for quite a long time, you can heat water there, make tea. But I had fun: I melted sugar into such a caramel, made myself candies, thought of various scenarios of my escape, what I would be captured there, what I would say, at such a stage, at such a stage, I was building a legend for myself. I was just in such thoughts, sometimes I made an analogy with the movie &quot;Buried Alive&quot;, when there was also a person underground in a coffin, there he had a phone and he was trying to somehow save himself there. Or it was such solid, solid darkness and tried to sleep more. I just understood that the more I sleep, the faster time will pass and I just tried to sleep so as not to think about anything. - You didn't think that you could just stay here walled up in some wall in Azovstal and no one would ever find you. Yes, I thought about it, and that's why I felt very bad already on the seventh day, I understood that if I didn't get out of here for a while, I could die from lack of just food and so on. And on the seventh day, I decided to come out of this hiding place. Oleksandr even managed to record some moments from Mariupol and Azovstal on video, I will not be able to show them all in this video, because YouTube will not miss them. But there is my Telegram channel, go to the description, subscribe to it, and I will publish all the videos for you, plus there we often talk with you on various topics and even some of your questions get into the next videos. So go to the description. Sign up. There is also an opportunity to financially support our project on &quot;Buy me a coffee&quot; - I liked it when I was preparing, you told me the following phrase: that &quot;I played chess by myself&quot;, that you invented your own legend, broke it yourself. A little bit like that doesn't make you go crazy? In fact , you talk for a week only to yourself, in the dark, nothing . I'm only in my thoughts, and of course, when I was working on my legend there, I constantly played like chess for myself and for a potential Facebook user who will interrogate me. He looked for inconsistencies in his legend, improved it and brought it to the ideal. And there he thought of various cases that could happen, and prepared a plan of his actions for each potential scenario. - How did you get out of the factory? - I had already changed into civilian clothes, disassembled the weapon, threw it away, dug around where I could, in different places, so that even if I found one part, they wouldn't find the other, and it was at night, and I just started going out, and the enemy unmasked himself by the fact that they lit fires at the posts, walked there with lanterns, talked loudly, and I basically saw where they were stationed, looked for places where I would pass and how to get out of Azovstal. So , in principle, I walked for a long enough time, because I had to constantly stop, listen to the terrain, and also listen to the enemy, is he talking next to me? Does not speak. Someone is walking, can you hear footsteps or not? And that's why the distance to the city is quite short, but I had to walk from dark to the very dawn and I successfully managed to get to the city. - How many days have you not seen the sun? - I haven't seen it for 7 days. - What did you feel when the sun rises, when you are no longer on Azovstal? You are, okay, in enemy territory temporarily, but still - is this some kind of relative freedom? - Well, yes, I already felt that I definitely won, that it's really very, very happy when you see green trees, the air blows fresh on you, the sun warms you, you see birds. There was a sense of victory, that I had already won. But it was far from the case. I was very wrong and relaxed very early. -You are writing a sequel in your book, right? -Give, please, a small announcement of what can be told? What happened next? Well, further on, in principle, I will not particularly tell what happened, it will be fully written in my book. From such messages... after walking 200 kilometers and wiping my feet in blood, I was still able to gain freedom for myself. And as it was, there are many adventures, it will already be described in the book. - I know the whole story. She's super interesting, actually. Therefore, I will recommend the book again and, I hope, you will finish it soon. And now you can think that you have basically already passed a very difficult path, well, an unrealistically difficult one, which I don't know even one percent of people on this planet go through, you don't rest anyway. Have you picked up a weapon again? - I remained active military personnel, now I am part of the third assault brigade, I continue to perform tasks, I am in the &quot;Kryl&quot; company in a crew called &quot;Nachtigall&quot;, I perform aerial reconnaissance tasks, we are engaged in adjustment, detection, adjustment and destruction of enemy armored targets and so on. &quot;East&quot; did not come empty-handed. We have such a wonderful gift for you. The fact is that we, the Museum of War Fragments and a bunch of other bloggers and opinion leaders are launching a huge fundraiser for a third separate assault brigade. The amount is not small - 30 million hryvnias, so I leave the details for you under this video. Donate and you will have the opportunity to receive such a cool gift. You've heard the story. I don't know how you can't drop a good round of money, because I don't think you've heard stories like this before. Tell me, what kind of gift is this? - This is a cube, these are my personal chevrons of the Luhansk Dawn movement, a member of the ultras movement that I am, poured it all into a transparent cube. And together with the cube comes one of my Mariupol stories. - The appearance is actually very cool, the thing is not light. I will ask you to donate, and whoever guesses the largest amount will receive this cool gift. Friends, react, how do you like this story? Like or dislike and be sure to subscribe to our channel. Yes, you will show that our work is important to you. And let's write a few nice words for Alexander in the comments. He deserved them like no one else, and let's fantasize a little, what could his book be called? Write in the comments.