The Compaq Computer Company's early years of absolutely insane growth Founded in 1982. First year revenue? $111 IPO, December 1983. And year 2, 1984? $329 Year 3, $504 million, 53% Later, Compaq hit $1.2 billion in revenue Along the way, Compaq led an insurgency overwhelming the old lion and unlocking the That is when the problems began. The tragedy of Compaq is that they led the the revolution turned on them. In this ## Engine: Product Compaq in its early years First, they offered a breakthrough product that was both compatible with - yet sufficiently You can't exactly work with the Compaq Portable you try - but you can lug it around from The original PC cannot do that, and own portable until February 1984, over and you can see why the Portable was a suitable In addition, Compaq went above and beyond IBM's formidable ecosystem includes its flagship productivity Such compatibility not only required teams working on re-implementing fidelity to the IBM PC's hardware, ## Engine: Speed Number two. IBM's product development Development does a prototype. Manufacturing feedback. After that, sales reviews it and taking about 12 to 18 months in all. So it took some time for IBM to add new Compaq's product development cycle on departments at the same time. Messy and chaotic, This let them bring new technologies classic example is the iconic Deskpro 386, leading edge silicon. It hit the market a They were also faster than anyone else product. IBM's early struggles to keep Compaq presented a compelling alternative. ## Engine: Distribution The third major engine was the IBM had long sold through its own IBM started selling through retailers like Sears, arose. Those retailers did not appreciate Early on, Compaq differed in that distribution channel. Cofounder and &quot;Keep the seller sold&quot; and &quot;A dealer done It helped them save money by not having a big dealer loyalty. A salesman at CPU Computer &gt; I view that as a real big plus for me. I can they decide they want 100 of them, they go to IBM &gt; But for Compaq they have to come to me. This was an early advantage that helped But as we will get to later, it also ## The High After successfully launching the of PC clone makers against IBM, Compaq Everyone admired their instant success. The to pick the right products at the right praise-filled profiles about Compaq's In 1990, Rod Canion sat for an interview with on the company's consensus-oriented culture and &gt; But what is most intriguing about Compaq that combine to create the &gt; In an industry that is driven by innovation, Compaq defines innovation as staying within the &gt; Because the company's labor costs are so low, says the CEO, the company must &gt; In a company that has achieved cost ranks relatively low on the ## Attack of the Clones The issue with these statements - the last one in particular - was that price did If you recall from my video the reason why nobody made money in making and There are four major components in a HDD. all largely independent of one another. So if component, they can quickly slot it into the The same with the IBM PC clone a PC is a modular box with a keyboard chip sitting on an IBM-derived hardware In the early days of the PC clone industry, it together and make them work. But by mid-1985, extent that you can throw them together and they Thus in the end, just two things mattered Microsoft's OS software and Intel's silicon. This became increasingly obvious with the Deskpro market entrants from the United States and them to get a 386 and MS-DOS and introduce Take the Fall 1986 edition of the Computer Dealers Comdex had once been amongst the The Deskpro 386 release triggered a multitude of were just prototypes with mass availability These other super-clones from Dell, Gateway and and cheaper too. The price difference might with cheaper materials like plastic Or it could also be the business model. markups by directly selling through telephone Dell in particular often ran big advertising comparing their offerings - and prices Consumers consistently paid a 67% premium for system. Yet Compaq was slow to respond to In December 1990, Michael Swavely, President second-in-command, told reporters: &quot;You can charge Just a few months later, Swavely ## New Innovations were certainly fast to integrate The issue however was that they produced few of they invested only about 4% So they found themselves beholden progress. In one notable event, Rod about confronting Intel's paranoid Canion needed Intel to finish their 486 best people to prioritize RISC development to In that story, Grove eventually decides to that. But it illustrates how Compaq was But beyond that, Compaq also missed opportunities Rod Canion badly wanted Compaq to do a laptop But Compaq never produced something without and a young market researcher showed that though Canion accepted this and set it aside. He Business Review interview as an example Then in 1986, Toshiba released the Toshiba it needed an external power source, but it did Despite what seems like an Compaq took until October 1988 to introduce a But it was starting to feel as if Compaq to keep up with this rapidly ## Europe Yet despite the intensifying competition Compaq continued to grow revenues and profits. While other computer companies like struggled to resist the attack of the clones ... in the three years from 1986 to 1989, Compaq's The secret behind that growth was Those were run by a former Texas Instruments Pfeiffer first joined Compaq back in 1983 to operations. With little guidance from the &quot;if it happens it happens&quot; - he transplanted the Compaq ignited huge growth in what was a Apple and Olivetti. The British subsidiary He then opened a swath of new and led the construction of a new By 1990, over half of Compaq's revenues was the company's second highest paid ## 1991 Unfortunately, things start going In August that year, the causing oil shocks that roll through the rest Various Information Systems departments around the This price-consciousness accelerates the clones' But more worrying than the macro stuff was management and its other stakeholders Chairman Ben Rosen, one of the original investors, with the competition. In an oral history &gt; Well, those two decades, the '80s and the and in both cases, our management &gt; We started moving faster than the there are a lot of other smart people and they went after us, and In May 1991, Compaq pre-announced that their from the prior year. The stock clanked But company management disagreed with They argued &quot;short-term perturbations&quot;, the economy picked up again, and that the 27% In the actual 2nd quarter 1991 earnings next quarter might be even worse. The At the end of summer 1991, Rosen demanded that soon as possible. Canion agreed to the former, but In October 1991, the company reported a that they would be laying off 12% of A few days later, the board of directors 15-hour back-and-forth, Rosen dropped his Rod Canion replied that it was impossible without sacrificing the company's renowned Rosen then said, &quot;Yes you Rosen had secretly sent two Compaq guys to the parts from vendors and then assembled two Rosen then had those demo PCs brought out, saying that he did this with just two people bend. That sealed it. Rosen offered Canion refused and Rosen fired him. Eckhard In an interview with the New Rod admitted that the management team probably but added that they were now moving quickly. &gt; I'm still not completely clear on what but it had more to do with looking to the future. to make the tough decisions and felt that called &gt; In some ways, it seems like a very Much later, Rod reflects in &gt; In truth I was somewhat burned out by the especially during 1991. That year we were by six of our top ten dealers merging into of the dollar ... Laying off hundreds of ## New Changes Though Compaq was already turning towards the seen by outsiders as having the intensity, drive, He was less focused on the computers' the company's numbers. The strategy he Make millions of low-cost PCs, A few months after becoming CEO, against his fellow clone-makers he cuts prices across the board on every Then in June 1992, he unveils 16 new products Contura laptop lines. Such plans began their development by pitting Compaq's internal Now, the cheapest 386 Compaq was 1991. The ProLinea desktops quickly In addition, Pfeiffer expands with large computer superstores Compaq also grows their 1992 R&amp;D a percentage of total revenue, this the absolute number was higher than Compaq's ads liked to crow that R&amp;D stands for 'Replicate and Duplicate'.&quot; And to help service large corporate clients Compaq strikes a deal with system most part, the company continues to rely ## Turnaround Pfeiffer oversees a remarkably Thanks to the broad price cuts and new products, Compaq sells 150% more computers in 1992 $4.1 billion, up 25% from the prior year. The turnaround continues in the massive volume helped find new efficiencies Singapore, and Erskine, Scotland have to ramp A new factory is established in the city of In August 1993, Compaq introduces the and home office. It was an all-in-one CD-ROM drive, modem and software Just plug it in and turn it on. Compaq's new best-selling line. I think In a year when Apple had to take a Dell lost $75 million and IBM broke even, Compaq went from $4 billion revenue in 1992 to In early 1994, Fortune wrote: &gt; &quot;In the two years since Eckhart he has engineered such a stunningly complete turnaround that it's surprising that Even the competition had to agree that Dell's Vice President of Northern &gt; &quot;What Compaq has done is going to go down of all time ... we can both increase our Bruce was not wrong. The 1990s and there was plenty of room for ## The Boom Years From 1990 to 1999, the world PC industry as From 24.2 million PCs shipped million in 1999. Much of this Between 1990 and 1997, the percentage of from 15% to 35%. The amount of time Pfeiffer turns Compaq in a mass-market price points and functionalities from In 1994, Compaq does $10.9 billion they grow to $14.9 billion, leapfrogging PC maker. Compaq and its CEO Pfeiffer ## A Vision and a Problem This victory in 1995 can perhaps It marks the end of easy growth in Afterwards, competition once again begins until 1996, Dell's growth came at now their notebooks and servers were Compaq had increasingly few options consistent throughout all of its history and retailers. This network helped But Dell's model of selling directly ground. The Internet now made it easier than ever to cut out distributor margins Yet Compaq cannot easily adopt that direct-selling model because it would piss off their partners might start pushing Compaq's In March 1996, Compaq warned investors that numbers. The stock takes a dive, forcing It works and the stock recovers, but sharp-eyed viewers note that margins Pfeiffer comes to believe that Compaq's only being a global computer company - selling he resolves to make Compaq into a ## A Series of Unfortunate Acquisitions It goes horribly wrong. Compaq embarks Substantial money was spent to build a In late 1995 they bought Networth, a company buying another networking company called Microcom. Then in June 1997 they paid $4 billion Tandem's speciality was in very fault-tolerant computers for companies that needed So think stuff like ATM networks, computers had many redundant parts in Less than a year later, Pfeiffer shocks the late January 1998, Compaq pays a record $9.6 Corporation or DEC. It was the biggest DEC has been around since the late for inventing the minicomputer category technology and R&amp;D prowess were Buying DEC and its $13 billion in revenues Investors and analysts mostly approved of the a reason. Their core high-end Internet server and to disruptive competition from cheap and powerful Yet analysts pointed at the upsides. $3 billion in tax loss assets, which DEC's worldwide services businesses made significant money. And the company DEC had their own flavor of Unix microprocessor called Alpha. It was fairly fast, but the company never did anything with it. And interestingly enough, DEC owned AltaVista, Dotcom era. Other than a vague notion they did little with it and Pfeiffer struggled to bridge the two cultures. There was little push to capitalize on which still kind of sat around And all the while, Compaq's core PC business 1998 that Compaq finally began adopting Dell's was no other way to close Dell's 10-15% cost ## End of Pfeiffer In April 1999, Ben Rosen and the board Like with Canion's firing, Rosen's his touch. Too driven on hitting a revenue and worse yet, inability to integrate Rosen later said he wished he did part complained to the press that and felt that more openness After a three month search, the board the company - Michael Capellas, their Chief someone who knew IT was back in the head spot, The first time CEO got to turning things around, but after a few months the results were mixed. but finances remained lackluster. operations were gaining traction but In September 1999, Dell overtook Compaq as ## Hewlett-Packard giant Hewlett-Packard was Famously founded in 1939 in a garage largest companies in the world, 13th on the They began in electronics like their iconic business. But in the early 1990s, they got but when that business commoditized in the late After running the company for 7 years, 1999. Platt was known for preserving the But one can also argue that Platt focused too of actual performance. As a former executive but it was like - well, you did Platt had also been concerned that the back of the increasingly unstable commodity profitable growth business. Maybe something Or services. The talk of the technology around IBM by moving it into IT services. To help lead this change, Platt and the hard-charging sales executive from ## The Merger Fiorina's mandate was to be an and bringing it into new businesses In September 2000, she made a PriceWaterhouseCoopers' consulting system consultants made a lot of sense. But For Compaq, 2000 had been a bad year. The DEC's high end internet server flood of excess PCs into the market. The board Fiorina and Capellas first met consortium meeting for selling computers to turn around rigid commodity PC A few months later, Fiorina calls variant of Unix. Capellas quickly asks Thus on September 3rd 2001, Labor Day, HP worth about $25 billion. Carly Fiorina which boasted combined revenues of $87 Infamously, though, the On pure merit, it wasn't a bad idea. that complemented one another. Only 15% of so they can benefit from Compaq's were also about $4 billion of savings to But investors and competitors were not impressed. The two companies lost $13 billion in market One institutional investor said and tying them together to see if they float&quot;. Sun Microsystem's President Edward Zander said, &quot;When two sick companies combine, Michael Dell said, &quot;Mergers of The opportunity it presents to And that was all before the acquisition Fiorina and Walter Hewlett, son of insisted that HP was paying too much I shall save the battle between the two for cross-country campaign reminiscent of a national merger by the thinnest of margins and quickly For all the chaos, the deal ended up doing well to the contrary. Fiorina was not there for that But her successor, the late Mark laid off 15,000 jobs, clarified management roles, and grew the combined company to $110+ Soon after the acquisition, HP moved to phase on a few low-end computers until 2013. ## Conclusion We have largely forgotten the role fight against IBM. The story just This is in part due to the massive in the late 1990s. It was vastly destructive, not just to the American PC-maker companies In some ways, that move feels inevitable, Intel and Microsoft could have done to and squeezed the ecosystem for value