[crickets] I had a dream when I was a little girl [fanting] I wanted to be a ballerina, like my mom. I was sold. I was deceived by my mom's boyfriend in my own backyard. after a long time in slavery I escaped, but did I really escape? My past keeps following me like my own shadow. I feel trapped Get out! one got away... don't worry we'll get it before dawn You'd better for your own good leave no trace. come on! shut up! [chains rattling] hey! stay down! nobody move! Do you understand? check it! how about that one they good? [tense music] [fire burning noise] &quot;Hi this is Lily leave a message.&quot; Hello Lily it's daddy again. I just... want to say... I love you. I don't know how you keep looking at that disgusting file over and over Just looking for truth Tom. [papers sound] Do you know that 80 percent of sex offenders reoffend? It's horrible. As the leader of this investigation I sworn to myself that I will end this atrocity and we're not going to stop until these monsters get what they deserve. Well, we know who they are. We just need enough behind bars. You know what? Judge Travis is throwing a huge celebration for his anniversary in the next couple of days I know that judge is dirty. oh yes is dirty. We gotta find a way to get in. I'll find a way. [cellphone vibrating] It's Colbert. What happened? no, no, no, we'll meet you there. They found burn bodies [suspense music] [suspense music] There is something that caught had a symbol tattoed on his wrist. no other flesh on the arms remained. Let me know if you find anything else. We will hunt down these scumbags to give the punishment they deserve. Ryan you've got to be careful with this investigation, the people who did this, they pose a threat to every single relationship that you have. I'll find who's behind this. This is bigger than you can imagine. I'll find them. [rap music] Are we gonna stop? she needs help, hey! Are you okay? 991, What's your emergency? by Riverside Forest she may be dead. [police radio] Hey, sweetie I'm officer Is there anyone that we can call to let Please, help me, Who?, who want to kill you? Calm down. Tell us what kind of Don't be afraid [crying] [crying de desperately] it's okay, you're safe. Let me see. It's okay. Okay we can help you, I promise. Stay right here I'll be right back. [phone ringing] There you go sweetie. There're soap, toothpaste things to make you feel Okay. It's okay. Take this... come on. The restroom's right over there. It's okay. [police siren] [foot steps] Hey! Leave me alone! Hmm.. How you doing honey? What are you not talking to me? Is she the new girl? No. I don't know her. Are you sure? How about you? -One hundred, for an hour. Get out of here you can't... Get out of here baby!, Hey! -You need help or something? Are you sure? You look kind of lost. -I said I'm fine okay. But I'm telling you a lot more jerks are gonna come hope you can defend yourself. I can defend for myself. Okay. Hey! Do you have a place to stay? Oh so, you want my help now. I mean, if you don't It's okay honey it's all right. You can stay over at my place just for the night, okay, but... you're Are you sure? It's all right, pick up your stuff, let's go, come on... by the way... my name but you can call me Rosi, okay? Hey cutie how are you? Up in my way, huh. You do that job every night? Yeah. You want some coffee? -Go ahead, sit down. I'm sorry I'm so tired. But I used to have a family. A mom, a dad. and I... when I was five, My mom went from boyfriend to boyfriend. When I was... thirteen, I left that hell. Them you know, that's and uh... I mean... He's mean, and... stupid too... but... [crying] you know, at least I have my own roof over my own head with him, It's just... Tell me how did you small town, how did you get here? I'm... I... I used to have a regular life, the common thing every girl has and, you know... like, a home, went to school, ballet classes, boyfriend, hum... -Yes life. [classical music] [car engine] I can't imagine how'd Family secret. [classical music] I didn't know you were I think you'd have a little in common, well, you know grandfather, always wants to be well represented. Of course, diplomacy above all, Thank you Megan. How was that? My grandfather knew their family for decades. oh family secrets. Congratulations! Yes indeed, thank you Jackie absolutely beautiful, Everything's just perfect You both are so sweet, enjoy yourself. [violin music] [violin music] Okay, what's so important? This girl, she's driving me crazy. Okay. Well, show her to me. Whoever you want, we get it for you, not a problem. I wanna her, whatever it costs me she'll be worth it. Don't worry my friend. She'll be yours. [car engine approaching] Hey baby! Mikey what are you doing here? I'm coming for you babe, I don't have any money, -Oh you got not money, Stop! You say you got -I got no money! Oh Mikey please... no... You said you got no money! What is that? Money... Tell me, what's that? -Money okay!. Tell me what is that... -Money! -Say it again! Move it! Leave her alone, [gun shot] [police siren] [huming a song] What are you singing to yourself? Music can be a very effective memory tool... Okay sure. So the girl came back? [phone ringing] What scared her? She said that when we left her alone she freaked out. and she returned to the main streets. She's ready to talk? Not yet Dr Gill will examine her. Okay well, let's find out if she's a get a picture, run into the let me know what Dr Gill finds out. All right. We'll do. [phones ringing] Colbert... I think you're gonna find these very handy. I think you're very right officer. [laughs] Hello Adriana. My name is Dr Gill and I'm the clinical psychologist assigned to your case. I'm here to offer you any assistance that I can help you with. How can you protect me? Who do you need protection from? The ones that rule over everything... the ones with the power, the ones running the system. Can you be a little more specific? -Can you? How can you protect me? When I say that I can help you, it's a gesture of sincerity... hoping that you'll respond with trust. Now, we have a safe house... Do you all say you want to help... but what you really do you throw us to the sharks so they can feed on us the bones. And who is they? You're not listening to me! I can't trust you or anyone, they'll find me here, I understand your fears. It is my job to guide you through a practical assimilation of those fears, as well as the betrayal that you experienced while you were on the streets. My first rule as a professional psychologist is to help make you feel safe and to protect your privacy. No one... listen to me... no one will know what to me in this room... I don't need nobody telling me about betrayal... You can't imagine what it's like to be sold by someone you love, and then abused over and over and over again... you have no idea... I'm so sorry, I'm sorry for the pain and the anguish and the mistrust. Now, I do therapy at a safe house for survivors of human trafficking. You'll be guarded, assigned your own room, given three meals a day. The only requirement is, daily group therapy sessions and individual sessions three times a week. What would I find there? a bunch of broken people like me? All right everyone! Listen up. We have Operation Diamond Bar with a search and arrest warrant and we're looking for... our favorite friend, Victor Musry. -I Ask for tequila, I don't care what it is, I want it now! Who do I look like to you? Who I look like to you? As you can see they have logos on the vans all kind of white vans everywhere but these guys don't care they're not afraid to let us know where they are and who they are. So let's go Next slide... All right. Now this one is for me guys, because these are the children that we allow to die. They didn't just die, were burned to death on our watch. Can not let that happen again. We're going to dismantle his business that's what it's all about today. I want John and Carlos I want Rich and Vito and Tommy, we're going to go ahead and take the front with me. as quiet as possible. Now I want you to be safe, you got to assume Police! Lift up your hands! Oh! Do you know who I am? You're gonna regret this. A man suspected of murdering six children in Florida Victor Musry was one of three men part in a sex trafficking ring. [suspense music] There's some soul of goodness, in the evil. What? does anyone Shakespeare that! look at that, Yeah look at it! You thought you got rid of these tattoos so it helped me to to you. I know how long you've been after Victor Musri... this is your chance yeah, and we're gonna make the most of it but stay focused, keep your personal feelings in check. Do you hear me? Do you know why I'm here Tommy? Of course I do, it's about your sister Lisa right? I have sacrificed my life for this job, I lost my wife, my relationship with my daughter, just so that what happened to Lisa, doesn't happen to anybody else, understand? [music] [bird chirping] [music] [horse sound] [music] Hi! They are very good people here. class in almost everything. love to. [music] I don't think so... I know how you feel right now, but the things will be better. When I was fourteen, I met this guy at the mall, he pretends to love me, I did everything for him, because I was in love. One night, he told me to go out party, he make me, to sleep with men for money. One night, I started to run away that's when he put gasoline on me. These are my scars. Is a miracle, that I could escape and found this beautiful place. What do you guys doing? Hi, I'm Jennifer come on! Alrightly ladies, good evening we have a new face tonight, so why don't we all go around and say our names, I'm Melissa, I'm Kayle, I'm Jennifer, and what's your name? In this place, there are dozens of girls with broken past, future... is all this really worth trying again? I've run out of strength. I just don't want to try anymore. Mom we gotta go shopping! there's nothing in the fridge. [sad music] Mom? can you hear me? you gotta go shopping. How many times I have to say me up! I'm freaking tired of you... Oh my God, I'm going to school, the shopping, Why don't you get a job, huh? Is time for you to take care of me change! and Larry says you are pretty, hmm... He can find for you a job as a as a model. Mom be patient you'll be proud of me, We don't buy food with pride. Who's gonna get money? I'm only 15. I had to work when I was your age. You now that... well you just stand there! just go! go! Fine, I see you later. [heavy metal music] [heavy metal music] What should we do with that You got some pictures for me? Do you need pictures? I need pictures so I can publish, and then when I get the cash right I'll give you all the candy hey, easy... Do you think just pictures enough for them to to hmm? I have pictures of her. Pictures wil be okay, you know, -I have some pictures... gonna have to come with me an ID because I need to introduce her, right? I have photos... pictures, look! tons of pictures of her, Okay. Just... This is... This is when I... When I was a ballerina. Hahaha, you? a ballerina? Yes, look it's me! I was a ballerina once. -Let me see it, let me see it. Hey, hey! you want your stuff? Don't touch it! Larry, please... just give me a little bit, have some, give me some, I know you have some! give me some, please -please, give some! Pictures first, pictures first. Here we go, that's a good picture! -I need this... I have to make a call You trust me? -I'll take care of you, right? Clean up this mess! You've come at the perfect time, they've just started a here for us. Excuse me... did you say Fine Arts? Yes, they provide us with Art classes, whatever interests us, I play the violin, there are painting classes and sculpture, and, I almost forgot, access to the National Dance Academy -Dance? Do you like to dance? It was my dream, but, that ballerina died, And there I was, trying to forget my past, and trying not to think about what lies ahead [melancolic music] I wonder how Arthur is doing... He probably has forgotten about me. [melancolic music] -Have sprinkles, yours? Okay... I wish we could spend more time like this don't you? Yes, but also I have a big dreams so, gonna need you to help me accomplish them... [door knocking] Hi... I'm Arthur... Adriana's friend. I was supposed to pick her up from dance class and she never showed up, so I just wanted to come... She left... she left!, # and take away your heartache # but sometime it rains # # sometimes it pours # # sometimes an angel comes [door bell] Arthur! I don't know what's happening to me, I feel like I'm losing my mind. I'm at a point where I don't think God, exists anymore and I never thought I'd get here. [melancolic music] It's doesn't make any sense... how God allows us to you know people we love, you're telling me that there's a God who controls this? Son, God makes beautiful rivers, then men pollute them, and suppose, men pollute the rivers Is it God's fault if they get sick? It's not that God no longer exists or that he doesn't care, or that he's done something wrong. The truth is, God cares for his children so well, that everything that happens, happens because there's a lesson closer to him. Let me, let me approach it Scripture says that even when we go through storms and problems, God brings out the blessing from those circumstances, it's not the storms and the problems that last, more specifically it says that in everything, in all circumstances, God works them together for good to those who love him. And that's true son even if you can't believe it at this point in time. God is waiting for you. Would you pray with me? [ballet music] Here you are! want to get the professor angry. Dear you need to have your hair for my class, [ballet music] Also there are no street shoes in my studio. [ballet music] Also, It's no allow chewing The trash can is over there. Next! [ballet music] [ballet music] [ballet music] This girl clearly doesn't have a strong foundation but... she has something I haven't seen in a long time. [ballet music] [ballet music] What did they have you do? Did you have to spin? Yeah, honestly like I fell a lot tried to spin per se, Adriana I am so proud of you! This is a new beginning for you. Yeah, right. That was awful. That's not true. I do have some news for you We received a letter from the court, they're, uh... they're releasing Victor Musry due to lack of evidence. I'm outside of the courthouse for the high profile case of Victor Musri Oh, Mr. Collins, Mr Collins, your client has been accused of running an illegal what do you have to say about this? Well, my client is an entrepreneur and one who conducts his business like anyone else, until we have substantial evidence to the contrary, he will not be denied his freedom. to say. For channel 24, back to you in the studios. Just turn on the news that Russian immigrant Victor Musry was arrested, and then released because of lack of evidence. This is the story, the burn bodies, the kids in the abandoned warehouse, over it. [heavy metal music] [heavy metal music] Hey dude! We need to sleep here! [heavy metal music] [heavy metal music] [heavy metal music] [heavy metal music] Come on! Let's go! [heavy metal music] Yeah the thing with the warehouse, can't happen again. It won't. Better not... you know you're flammable too. [dramatic music] [children screaming nightmare] Shut up! Sit down! [dramatic music] You can't escape... [suspense music] [suspense music] Don't say my name, because, they may be kill me! [suspense music] [suspense music] [scratching] [crying] That tattoo does not define who you are. Can I leave? I don't want to be here. Adriana, I think you need this. Here you can find peace with yourself, and in time, it could open up the doors Justice!!! do you think justice, Sit down... You are right... justice can never replace How do I replace dignity? You should tell me about your dreams, They traded my dreams for nightmares. Every time I close my eyes, All I can see are those pigs, fat, olds, smelly... climbing on me... raping me... how can I overcome that with therapy? Adriana what you've lived is in your past now. Trust me, I know that things are fresh and raw, but in time, you can move on. Right... into a bright future. Yes... you can make it so. You know, when I was, making money for that... pig, Musry, I heard stories, stories about girls trying to run away, from the brothels, did you know what happened to them? they're dead, all of them shot in the head. Do you want to know Someone it's got to come i'll answer, it'll be Musry, then he'll put a bullet through my head. When I'm awake, I'm afraid I'm going to die, When I'm asleep, all I want to do is die. Hey! let's sing together, Are you new here? No, I'm not, I'm actually the daughter of the missionaries from Guatemala. And let me tell you lot of stories to tell. Missionaries from Guatemala? Do you know any Spanish? Okay then, let's go get you ready! Do you know what? One of the worst things in life is, Stepping on water while you're wearing socks, You're so funny! It wasn't always like that, Why? it's hard to understand what happened to me. Ever since my mom died I've been going through deep depression, and I didn't know what to do. But one day, A friend of mine invited me and there, I met a God who heals, and that changed my life. Good for you... if my mom dies, I don't care... actually... for me... she already died. Hey! I don't know your story, but I do know something for sure, don't be afraid of your story. Your story is the key, that unlocks someone else's prison. What do you mean by that? You survived, what you thought would kill you. But now, take your crown, and move forward, Hey girls, come to the party! [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] Run to your father's arms, let us pray for you. [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [&quot;Libre&quot; song] [dance music] That night everything changed, way of the pain, rage and shame off my shoulders, Instead a flow of love and hope overflowed my soul. Pain was no more, resentment was no more, Now is only thinking about what the future will hold. brighter than ever before. Now I have, the will to live, the love of God set me free, and I can smile once again, [dance music] Do you wanted to see me? Yes! I just got a call from She wants you to come back to the dance school. She thinks you're a unique talent and, she wants to train you. Really? And there I was fighting with my past, Showing myself that future. Finally I'm at the place where I can, truly be free. [ballet music] [ballet music] Adriana... Stop the music! Adriana! you're very talented, Sometimes you're very focused, and when you are, you're exquisite! But other times you're distracted and you lose that passion. The dance has to live inside you. For that, you need to focus. Try it again. [ballet music] You know, I was just like you and it got me very far, I went on a world tour, and you can too... I will... I can do this! [knocking door] Hey! pretty boy! Nobody lives there anymore! but... I know what happened to Marie! I came home called the cops... He got arrested... Marie! are you okay? I didn't know, didn't know she was sold! -Did she run away? they they sold, they sold her! I didn't know that! I didn't know! What can I do? I didn't know they sold her. I can't I can't... LARRY: Hey! get out of my house! get out of here! I want my daughter! Get out of my house now! get out of my house! Marie, -She said she was going to go to AAA she did, you know one day she left, she never came back. I need to file a missing person report. So, why has it taken you so long to report this? I think it was over, I heard you say... sold, by that? The neighbor said, that when her mother found out she was sold, couldn't look for, they'll gonna kill them both. I saw in the news burned down and people were killed... I'm sorry, but, we don't have authorization to talk about ongoing investigations. What if she was in there? [phone ringing] Listen, there's a trial next week, the girl that you're looking for, may have been trafficked. Tyler another amber alert came in, I know that sometimes these the kidnapping of minors for human trafficking and I got to tell you, the number of times this is alarming! [police radio] [police siren] [police radio] Larry Olsen a partner one of three men arrested for taking part in the sex trafficking ring that preyed on young men and women by getting them addicted to drugs and then forcing them into prostitution. The state has reopened the case against Victor Musry! I guess those pictures must We are going to need Here... that's Adriana's address at the shelter. This is my last shot. If we can't convince her, to testify, Musry may walk out forever. You know Brian, I can relate to what Adriana has been through, I been through... something that I've never When I was a little girl, by my uncle Danny. He was my mother's younger brother. I used to tell my mother and she would tell me to shut up, and stop talking nonsense. You know, it's been... many years now, and, through counseling and praying, I have found healing. With everything that we have, and everything that you have left, we need to fight for these children. I will fight... with the last breath I have. I really don't think how serious a problem this is, I didn't realize, until a couple weeks ago, when I read an article that said, someone is trafficked every thirty seconds. [birds chirping] The road to restoration is very difficult. Sometimes it's years of recovery from total loss of autonomy, severe trauma, abuse... Yeah, it's crazy. This children are being trafficked from state to state. It's unbelievable! Or what I say, right, slavery is alive and well, in the land of the free. Come in, Adriana. This is Special Agent Colbert, Adriana how are you? They've reopened the case on Adriana, we really need you, to be a witness in this new trial. I know it's going to be hard but, we'll be right there with you. [crying] [door knocking] Come in! Adriana... Maria told me the good news! You are in the dance class!? Maria didn't tell you the others They want me to be a witness in the trial against Victor Musry. Helping to put the man who hurt you into jail is a good thing, I guess. He will never hurt you or again. Do you know what Dr Gill? of all the things I've been through, the hard of them all was, my mom sold me. And from that point on, I belong to them. I don't know how many days went by, until I stop crying... I just can't stop. [sad music] When I told him my mom would never forgive him, he said it was her idea. That she sold me for money. So sorry Adriana. [cars passing by] I'd call that a look at contempt and smug expectation. You're a pretty good judge of character, outside of the courtroom. Would you like to take a look at... some new surprising evidence? Why do you have these pictures, hmm? What's this all about? That man hugging you there, you know what he's been accused of? Sure, I know him, due to a lack of evidence. Ah we got some new evidence. We'll turn it in. I suggest, you stay away from this case, I might take those photos to the Press, won't be too good for your reputation. Adriana thanks for joining us, So sources says, the Victor Musry trial. Are you one of his victims? I'm not here to talk about my past, I'm here because of the right? I was told that I was here because you're a witness on this big trial. No, hum, I don't talk about I'm a free woman now, Oh okay, well then I guess, we're done here. ON THE RADIO: They are reopening we are hoping that the investigation continues and that justice is served. [car door opening] [door opening] Arthur! What a surprise, how are you? You're not gonna believe What is it son? Adriana may be a victim of human trafficking. I wanted to ask, do you think if I found her, that... she would be the same Do you think that's a possibility? We all need second chances. Look for her and God will do the rest. [crickets sound] I'm sorry that happened in there. I think I know how you feel. I went through something like what you went through. My cousins sold me into the sex slave trade. They took me to a party, they gave me some drugs and let the guys there rape me. And then those men, took me... very far from home, they threatened me, they... told me if I tried to escape, they'd kill my family. It was awful... at first... and then I got used to making money with my body, I lost, my innocence. I lost everything. When I was rescued, I genuinely thought my life didn't have a purpose anymore. But then, I started to realize that other people, were suffering and going through the same thing that I was going through, and that I could help them. I... worked... and I made money, in an honorable way. And I started this shelter for abused women. It has been a blessing, for a lot of women, of human trafficking. With God's help, I found purpose, for the pain that I'd been through. You can help a lot of women overcome their past. Specially you. You have beautiful gifts and talents. You can make a difference. You don't know how much Thank you. I'm outside of the Courthouse, for the high profile case Everything's gonna go well, All rise! The court is now in session. The Honorable Judge You may be seated. Victor Musry, you are here by charge with aggravated kidnapping, criminal assault, double homicide, prostitution and human trafficking. In a bloated defense the motion to suppress evidence. The prosecution is expected to wrap up this case this afternoon, with further testimony from a star witness. It happens faster than I can imagine. And at one point, I start believing that this is meant to do. I didn't really think about I just... tried to survive. And how often would you have to engage with these men? Every day, for three months. Is one of those men, seated in the courtroom today? That man right there, and staring at me. Let the record state the identification of the defendant. HSI special agents, investigate cases, in which criminals use the internet an attempt to exploit children. We work with our local, state and federal organizations, to target criminals. Agent Colbert, How do you build your cases? We conduct undercover operations, in which we target subjects, who utilize the internet, to pay for... engage in sex acts with minors. [emotional music] Are you ready? Yeah, but I'm not gonna lie, [emotional music] I'm very nervous. Adriana, this might be an opportunity for justice to be served to Victor Musry, and for society to see that this happens right here in America. You have to arm yourself with courage to testify against that man. God can help when no one else can. The prosecution now calls Adriana Miller to the stand. Please, raise your right hand, [emotional music] Do you swear to tell the truth, and nothing but the truth? I do. How old were you when you met the defendant? 15 years old. And how do the two of you meet? My mother sold me to him for drugs. Your mother sold you for drugs. Did you know what was happening? No. I was afraid to escape, they would kill me and my mother. What kind of things happened to you, when you were there being held against your will? Three of them would... tie me to the floor, and... take turns raping me for hours, How did you get away? One night, someone got drunk unlocked. Seven of us realized it, We all ran, but they fell behind trying to stay together, and I ran ahead and made it into the woods. I couldn't believe it when I found out they were caught and burned. Adriana Miller, Is the man who told you that he owned you in the Yeah. Can you please describe him by something that he's wearing. The man in the gray suit. Let the record state the witness has identified the defendant. No more questions your Honor. JUDGE: now. Miss Miller I understand how difficult this must be for you today. Adriana, you live with your drug addict mother, right? Yeah. And from what we heard today, sounds like you really had it tough at home, right? Yeah. I mean you said that she sold you. She didn't want you around, didn't she? I... yeah... don't know. And then you ended up in a place, where you were fed every day, nice place to stay, right? Cloth on your back. The truth is that you... just made up a story you knew the cops wanted to hear. Isn't that the truth? Objection your Honor! JUDGE: Sustained! JUDGE: To the point please! Let me rephrase your Honor. Miss Miller, you knew that Special Agent Colbert wanted you to identify today Victor Musry, didn't you? I don't need anybody to tell me what Victor Musry and Larry Olson did to me. But I need to tell the truth, because I want to be free, because I need to live. Your client tried to shut me up Mr. lawyer, but here I am, telling the truth. Mr. Musry, you say you're an entrepreneur, is that how you help the community? Sure. How did you start your business? I run a business for women who want to make money. I just help them find the means. And you help those women in the business of making money by finding men to have sex with them, didn't you? Answer the question, Mr. Musry. When I was a child, One day there's this... woman. She locked me in a storage room, and sexually assaulted me. Over, over repeatedly. And I wanted it to stop and I wanted to tell someone but... she said she'd kill my family. Mr. Musry! Life pushed me into this. This case against Victor Musry, than 10 hours ago and everything seems to indicate that today we should have a verdict from the jury in this case. You better make sure that this blows back on me. I've got it handled. You better have it handled. Come with me. Victor Musri, please stand. We the jury, find the defendant Victor Musry Hernan on count one, two, three four, five: not guilty. [audience disagreed] JUDGE: Silence, please, silence. On count six, murder in the first degree of Jessica Johansson, not guilty. JUDGE: This is your last warning! On count seven, attempted murder on Adriana Miller, not guilty. [audience disagreed] JUDGE: Bailiff! On count eight, Human Trafficking and Sexual Exploitation of Adriana Miller: guilty! [Applause] JUDGE: Quiet on the Court! This court will reconvene in six weeks for his sentencing hearing. Court is adjourned. This case should be a warning Predators will use technology to try to get in contact and harm your child. This case should also be to all predators. Local, States and Federal Law Enforcement Agencies are working around the clock to make sure they pay for their crimes. [emotional music] [emotional music] Adriana, what are you doing? That was absolutely amazing! You give me chills! with that composition, and the way you dance, ah! Just terrific! dance? It's mine. I've been choreographing and I wanted to show you. it's absolutely amazing! [Applause] [dance music] Adriana, ever since the first day I saw you I knew you have the fire of an invincible soul. Thank you. [romantic music] I know you don't want to talk to me, but I have to tell you something. I don't care how long I have I will. Arthur... I can't love again. I can help you if you let me. But I'm not the same girl. It doesn't matter. I want to take care of you. [romantic music] I'll be out there, cheering for you. [phone ringing] Officer Carreras, hi this is Arthur. I was wondering if you could help me find someone? Hi. Good morning, how can I help you? I'm looking for Marie Miller. is here. Are you relative? No. I know her daughter. I'm just trying to help her Do you know her daughter, Do you almost packed? -Yeah. [knocking on door] There's someone here Yeah her name's Claire, talk to you about your mother. [&quot;You can lifting me up&quot; song] # How could anyone look at # The wanna give his life wanna give his life to save me save me # # How could anyone look # and wanna lift me up life to save me again # ADRIANA'S MOM: first, I wanted to know that I love you very much, and that will never change, no matter what. At the age of 27, I finally came with the fact that I had an unmanageable addiction. I took drugs every single day. For years I tried to break the heroin addiction. One day, I woke up in a hospital room where a stranger told me about the saving Power of God. About 20,000 pounds fell off of me. I was a different person. I know... there are no excuses for in the past to you. I failed you. I hope someday you can forgive me. Mom. # You keep lifting me up # Mom... I forgive you. I love you, and I always will. # You don't give me more # # than you know I can take # # You keep lifting me up # # out of the mess I made # # You don't give me more # # than you know I can take # # You keep lifting me up # # out of the mess I made # # You don't give me more # # than you know I can take # [applause]