Hello. I'm Honeyjubu. Today I prepared a collection of dishes. At 5 am, I start my day diligently. Today is the day my husband goes to work early. I make gimbap and breakfast for the lunch box menu. Lucy picks out her favorite snacks. This is red catfish meat I bought at Costco. Vegetables stay fresh for a long time if you use a cotton cloth to store them. Adding tofu to kimbap is really delicious. I also boil the water I drink warm. Make a salad with carrots and pears. 2T olive oil, 2T apple cider vinegar, 1t whole grain mustard, a little salt and pepper. They say kimbap is really popular overseas these days. My kids love kimbap, so I make it very often. No matter what ingredients you put in kimbap, it's really delicious. Make it by filling it with your favorite ingredients. You can also make it with leftover ingredients in the refrigerator. Tofu is soaked in starch to make braised tofu. 2T soy sauce, 2T cooking wine, 2T water, 1T starch syrup, 1T sugar. Add salt and pepper and fry the carrots. Prepare the asparagus by frying it. Add salt, sesame oil, and sesame seeds to warm rice. I wash my hands thoroughly and make kimbap. When making kimbap, you need to press the rice well. Since kimbap contains a variety of ingredients, it is also a pleasure to eat. Just brush it with sesame oil and cut it nicely and it's done. Have a great day today. Dip it in flour and eggs and fry it until it becomes savory. We eat breakfast together before my husband goes to work. This is Lucy, who is desperately looking for dog gum. These are sesame seeds sent from farming in the countryside. There are a lot of stones and foreign substances, so I wash it thoroughly three times. There are more sunken stones than you think. It seems like a lot of care goes into each ingredient when making food . Slowly fry the sesame seeds over medium-low heat. Stir-fry until you hear a popping sound. Store the completely cooled sesame seeds in a container. Always diligent Lucy... Today's lunch is pasta with garlic. Add salt and boil the noodles. Top it with cheese and you have a super simple pasta dish. At 5 am, I start my day diligently again today. I prepare my husband's lunch box. Add cabbage, reed roots, and pine needles and boil water. Prepare king oyster mushrooms and shiitake mushrooms. 1T sesame oil, 2T water, 1T soy sauce. Abalone braised in soy sauce: 2T water, 1T oyster sauce, 1T soy sauce, 2T cooking wine. Add the stir-fried mushrooms and let it steam. Add salt and lightly blanch the tomatoes. 1T lemon juice, 3T oil, salt, pepper. The rice was delicious today too. Lucy smelled the smell and ran to the kitchen. For stir-fried cabbage, use 1T of oyster sauce, 2T of cooking wine, salt, and pepper. It tastes better if you add pollack roe. We make a salad meal kit, detox juice, and 7 side dishes to help you spend the week healthy . These days, I am exercising and swimming every day. While exercising, I became more interested in healthy salads and detox juices. This is Lucy, who really likes vegetables. Remove the stems of cherry tomatoes, which are prone to mold. Place cauliflower and broccoli in a steamer and steam for about 3 minutes. Eggs are delicious if you boil them for just 12 minutes. Add salt and pepper to the chicken breast. Add cooking wine and boil the shrimp. Prepare sweet pumpkin by steaming it deliciously in a steamer. You can keep it fresh by putting a boiled cotton cloth on it. It's really convenient to prepare vegetables in advance and portion them out. We also add savory nuts and grain crisps. Make the three dressings to eat together in advance. It's a refreshing dressing that even kids love. 2 lemons, 1T oligosaccharide, 1T whole grain mustard, 1t soy sauce. 2T grapefruit juice, 2T lemon juice, 2T olive oil, a little salt. I also make a dressing full of basil flavor. 3T cheese, 2T nuts, 3T olive oil, basil, salt. Tomatoes have excellent antioxidant properties, and kale is rich in beta-carotene. Celery is rich in vitamin C and is good for dieting. Adding vitamins, cucumber, and lime makes it refreshing. It's a healthy juice to drink. Store the remaining vegetables. Carrots that have been stored for over two months are still fresh. The garlic has been stored for about a month, but it's still really fresh. You need to cover it with a cotton cloth to keep it dry for a long time. For garlic, I use a mincer. Garlic loses its flavor and nutrients, so store it sparingly. It is convenient when cooking if you put the seasoning in a small container. If you store red pepper powder at room temperature, it can grow mold and spoil, so be sure to keep it refrigerated. Naughty Lucy is busy today too. I wake up early in the morning and prepare juice. Fresh juice in the morning is also great for kids who like to exercise. Start your day healthy with fresh juice. When I exercise, I eat a light salad. I eat with my oldest child, who goes to badminton class at 7 a.m. This is Lucy's morning. Today, I'm making 7 side dishes for Rice Thief. It 's cabbage kimchi, boiled chicken, cold cucumber soup, japchae, stir-fried squid, stir-fried anchovies, and radish kimchi. Add salt to the cleaned cabbage and marinate for 30 minutes. Soak the glass noodles, mushrooms, and seaweed in water in advance. Add salt and boil the chicken. Prepare cabbage kimchi seasoning. Grind the pear, garlic, onion, and radish with water. If you add cold rice, the kimchi will cook deliciously. Put it in a cotton cloth and use only the broth. 5T anchovy sauce, 3T salt, 3T plum syrup, half a cup of soju. Add abalone to chicken stew. Prepare the ingredients for cold cucumber soup. Boil the seaweed only slightly. Vinegar 7T, sugar 1T. 1T garlic, 1T fish sauce, 1T tuna liquid, 3T soy sauce, 3 cups water. Pork, garlic, soy sauce, salt, pepper. Prepare the japchae ingredients. If the noodles have been soaked for more than 30 minutes, boil them for only 1 to 2 minutes. Stir-fry the prepared vegetables with oil and salt. Stir-fry mushrooms in oil and water. Add salt to the spinach and lightly blanch it. Lastly, fry the pork. 4T soy sauce, 2T sugar, 3T sesame oil, a little soybean oil. This is a delicious japchae that is not hard. I prepare the squid. Stir-fry the green onions first, then add the squid and vegetables. 1T sugar, 1T garlic, 2T red pepper powder, 1T red pepper paste, 2T soy sauce. Make stir-fried anchovies, a popular side dish for kids. Lightly fry almonds and walnuts in a pan. 1T cooking wine, 1T starch syrup, 1T sugar, 1t soy sauce. Fry the anchovies in oil to remove the fishy smell. For raw radish, 3T crab fish sauce, 1T sugar, 3T garlic, 3T red pepper powder, ginger and a little salt. This is the perfect side dish that you want to eat every day. For dinner, the whole family gathers and eats it together. Prepare with pre-made side dishes. Warm home-cooked food is always delicious. Today I start my day with naughty Lucy. Today, I prepared a side dish that is good to eat when you don't have an appetite. Wash and prepare the ingredients for making side dishes. I make cucumber kimchi, my husband's favorite. Lucy likes the kitchen with unlimited snacks. Cut the cucumbers and pickle them in hot salt water. Make pepper pickles by boiling 10% salt water. Poke holes in the spicy peppers with a fork. Cool the hot salt water sufficiently. Prepare the ingredients for cucumber kimchi by cutting them into small pieces. Store the remaining garlic in the freezer. Ginger, red pepper, 1/2 pear, 1T salted shrimp, 4T anchovy sauce, 3T plum syrup, 1T rice. 5T red pepper powder, if it is too bland, add a little salt to adjust the seasoning. Wash the cucumbers and drain enough water. For my husband who has a cough, I dry ginger and drink it as tea. Slice the ginger thinly and dry it for about 7 hours. Add the prepared ingredients to the cucumber. Cucumbers stay crunchy and delicious for a long time. If you add about half a cup of alcohol, mold will not form. Store frozen garlic in a freezer container for easy removal. Ginger is also convenient when cooking if you keep it frozen. Make ginger syrup by adding sugar to the remaining ginger in the same ratio. A good dish for storing vegetables for a long time is pickles. It's really good when you eat fatty foods. I also make delicious chayotae soy sauce pickles. If you have sensitive skin, please wear gloves when trimming chayote. For pickles, 1.5L of water, 700ml of vinegar, 400ml of sugar, 1T of salt. For soy sauce pickle, use 1.5L of water, 1.2L of soy sauce, 500ml of sugar, turn off the heat and add 700ml of vinegar. You can add ginger syrup when cooking or drink it as tea. By the time the sauce had cooled down, it was dinnertime. I should drink well-dried ginger as tea when my husband gets home from work. Chayotae soy sauce pickle is even more delicious because it contains spicy peppers. I have some sauce left over, so I make soy sauce pickled asparagus. Blanch in salt water for just 30 seconds. If you're coughing these days, try adding a little ginger to hot water. I feel like the day went by really quickly today. This is Lucy, who is guarding the feeding machine. If you give rice water to your plants, they will grow really well. I get very hungry after exercising and swimming. First, prepare the octopus salad with cucumber vinegar. Prepare the ingredients for frying. 1T tuna liquid, 2T soy sauce, 4T vinegar, half a cup of water, 1T sugar. Egg yolk, frying powder, carbonated water. Fried food is really delicious when you make it right away. We also prepare salmon sashimi. For the green onion salad, 1T red pepper powder, 2T vinegar, 1T soy sauce, sesame oil, and sesame seeds. If you make cucumber salad like this, the cucumber flavor becomes stronger. Lucy really likes cucumbers. 3T double vinegar, 1T sugar, salt, sesame seeds. Today I'm making bread with sweet potatoes and potatoes. Prepare sweet potatoes and potatoes by steaming them. You can make it quickly and easily using mixed powder. Lucy smelled sweet potatoes. Dogs really like sweet potatoes. Mash sweet potatoes and potatoes while they are warm. Add bean paste to sweet potatoes and corn and cheese to potatoes. Flatten the prepared dough well and add sweet potatoes and potatoes respectively. Sweet potatoes are covered in purple sweet potato powder and potatoes are covered in soybean powder. Bake in an oven at 180 for 30 minutes to complete. Eat delicious bread full of sweet flavor with warm tea. It's a refreshing start to the morning. Today is gym and swimming day. I feel good on days when I exercise. I prepare yogurt and salad before I go to the gym. Add tomatoes, lettuce, celery, and eggs to the salad. Top the yogurt with fresh fruit. Today is the day of freediving class. Prepare snacks for the children before going to class. Lucy really likes lettuce. Make a bagel sandwich. Spread cream cheese on top and top with fruit. Add lettuce, tomatoes, ham, pickles, and cheese. Filled with ingredients that children love. My oldest middle school child is obsessed with freediving. I can now hold my breath underwater for about two minutes. I think the day will come when I can play with sea turtles. Make warm pumpkin soup and souffle pancakes. Saute the onion in butter, then add the pumpkin and water. Adding milk makes it softer and more delicious. 2 egg yolks, 20g milk, 40g cake flour, 1t baking powder. Add 26g of sugar to the egg whites in three portions. Add a little water to low heat, close the lid, and cook for 5 minutes. Flip it over and bake for 5 more minutes and it's done. It's soft, sweet and really delicious. Lucy, what are you doing? You're not eating that. It's so much fun to be with naughty Lucy. Prepare spicy stir-fried octopus and bean sprout soup. I cook rice with buckwheat. The seasoning for stir-fried octopus is 4T red pepper powder, 2T red pepper paste, 1T garlic, 3T soy sauce, 3T cooking wine, 2T sugar, and 2T tuna liquid. To make bean sprout soup, add salt and crab sauce. Bean sprouts, pork belly, octopus, onion, green onion, carrot. Add mushrooms and spicy peppers. It tastes better if you add sesame oil. Spicy stir-fried fish will revive your appetite. You can eat it deliciously at home, so be sure to make it. Saturday morning, I start my day diligently. Abalone porridge and cabbage kimchi to eat warm. Marinate the cabbage with salt and water for at least 30 minutes. Store the remaining vegetables wrapped in honey beeswax wrap. Add rice soaked in sesame oil and fry. 2T salted shrimp, 3T plum syrup, 5T anchovy sauce, 3T cold rice, 3 red peppers, 1/2 pear, 1/2 onion, radish. When the rice is cooked, add vegetables, octopus, and abalone. Season with tuna liquid and cooking wine. 5T red pepper powder, 2T garlic, salt, chives, chives, radish, cabbage. Hurry up for my husband who goes to work early on Saturday. I feel healthy after eating a bowl of warm porridge. Thank you so much for spending your precious time with me today.