The automotive world is filled with good engines and so indestructible that they have reached look at some of the most indestructible engines Toyota, Jeep, Honda, and more. So, let's get right to mention that this list is in no particular there's a lot of bad engines out there, there's your pick isn't on this list, drop a comment down no engine is truly indestructible, as all engines in one way or another. Okay, so getting straight like this than with the Toyota 22R and 22RE. This from the late 1970s through the 1990s and gained One of the most important features that gives the very uncomplicated design and extremely straight find this little engine in the Toyota Hilux, which much just the Toyota Tacoma or the Toyota pickup can also find this little 2.4 liter engine in the make a whole lot of power, but it practically to do to keep one of these in commission nearly 100,000 miles or so. That's it. And in typical overbuilt both the 22R and the 22RE. They flat possible, even if it meant cutting back on their is the fact that it doesn't make a whole lot of four-cylinder engine. It might make vehicles like drive, but it also makes them nearly unkillable. 22RE in 1995 because of its lack of power and engines to get things like the 4Runners to not toughest engines we've ever seen in any automotive truck engine to one much larger truck engine, is the next indestructible engine on the list. I know, the Cummins 6BT was used in a wide array just a truck engine, which is partially what makes the 6BT and what makes it such an indestructible fatal flaw, and that's the killer dowel pin, KDP is simply a timing cover alignment dowel pin of engine run time, vibration and heat allow timing gear assembly, which can either result safely or the pin getting lodged in the gears and it's a very well documented and very well known of different solutions on the market, so it's what makes the Cummins such an indestructible to look at the 12 valve, for example, it's a fully electronics controlling the system whatsoever. It sensors that break, there's no sensors that can correct fuel delivery or anything like that. It is the way of anything. Now obviously there are some but you get the point. The later 24 valve mechanical injection system, but it's still a very to see these things, a 6BT, whether it be a 12 miles with ease. I've personally seen quite a few one of the most dependable diesel engines of all the best engine, whether that's Duramax, Cummins, being the most reliable of the bunch. Maybe you pushing it. Now, I think it's pretty obvious that engines that Honda absolutely must be on there we went with an engine series from Honda that you why you might ask? Well, the B series, H Series, and robust engines, but there is something and that's the fact that it wasn't designed with more civilian nature of the D series flat out H, K, any of them. The D series was designed as other engine series I just mentioned a moment ago which ultimately does sacrifice on the engine's series is the little single overhead cam commuter EF, and EK. The majority of D series engines are overhead cam models that had a little bit more of pure commuter engine. Now, these little turds were ranges from 1.2L all the way up to 1.7L. But, 1.6L engines, as those are incredibly popular here is basically completely void of anything special. helps to add to the reliability. It's simple, and many stories I've heard about these little engines trying to kill them, just slamming them off of the just physically trying to kill the engine, and things are. All right, now I know the GM guys out makes them proud to own a GM vehicle, but I hate block of any generation. I hate that I'm about to sound like absolute turds, but there is no denying 3800 V6. Now 3800 was officially born in 1988 V6 engine platform, but right off the bat, the about. It was a little 160 horsepower natural and innovations that made it better than GM's upgrades in the early 1990s that bumped power horsepower, but that was only with the addition of the best version of the 3800 came around in 1995 had a ton of new changes that made it smoother, the naturally aspirated version coming in at 205 supercharged models, and then the new supercharged I know that on paper, 240 horsepower out of a and well, it's because it is pretty weak. But, GM those supercharged 3800 V6 engines, there's a lot pulley and a little bit of tuning, these things the performance figures weren't particularly because it was super tough. I can't tell you how along well after they should have been dead, which which is the ultimate Grandpa super sleeper sedan the highway. If you want a sleeper that's stupid skills as you learn HP Tuners after putting on this is the absolutely perfect engine for the Ford introduced an overhead cam design to their that ended up destroying the reliability of their beloved V8 engines, they offered one of the most that's the Ford inline six. Now, this came in including four different generations with a total those various generations. And to give you an idea 226 cubic inch engine was introduced all the way the two versions that you and I are most likely 300 cubic inch version, both of which are part of six engine. And these weren't designed for big rather, these were designed for the complete and to power basic commuter cars and simply just feature that you'll see on one other engine on both intake and exhaust ports to the same side of since the intake ports end up receiving a lot the 240 cubic inch version was phased out entirely 300 cubic inch model available, and it lasted engines block was quite a bit beefier than the and up top included an improved cylinder chamber part of the reason that this engine is so that it's not much of a powerhouse at all. This anywhere from 100 to 150 horsepower, depending on up in loads of non-automotive style applications, wood chippers, and so much more. This engine truly this next engine we have actually covered on all time and arguably one of the worst engines the reason it was in those videos is because lack of horsepower is what makes this engine 2.5L four-cylinder GM offered as a fuel efficient power is comically crappy at just 85 horsepower. that into context, if this was a 5.0L engine, It's impressively bad to say the least. But, on with an all cast iron construction and a complete combined with the ultra low power output, combines stress and ultimately never really breaks. And it even feature overhead cams, instead relying on with push rods to connect everything together. ever in terms of performance, it is one of the I saved this one for last, because this is an as I've had a ton of hands-on experience with wrong, although this is known as a Jeep engine, at engine, but an engine that can trace its roots American. And while the Jeep 4.0L doesn't share they laid the groundwork that the 4.0L was built AMC wasn't exactly thriving incredibly the 4.0L used many of the same parts and 232ci and 258ci family. And because of the fact it has some pretty odd design features that you For one, the cylinder head only has one side, and Ford 300 that we looked at earlier, meaning the head rather than being split, now this isn't because it pretty much just heat soaks the intake simple this engine design truly is. And unlike the the Jeep 4.0L doesn't feature overhead cams, camshaft residing in the block with push rods to engine is much like a tractor engine and it truly these things run on five cylinders for thousands run under temperature for hours on end from lack in a boat. I've seen just about everything with ever. If you guys enjoyed the video be sure to don't miss out on future videos, check out some on Instagram, TikTok, Facebook, we post a lot on