(ringing) - Hi, it's Doug. Have you ever had an X-ray taken before? Maybe you've seen an X-ray when you go to the dentist, or, if you're like me you get an X-ray done what part of your own skeleton looks like. Well, someone called Kien has a question about this bone right here. Let's give him a call now. (ringing) - Hi, Doug. - Hi, Kien! - I have a question for you. What would happen if - Ooh, that's a great question. The skull. It might be the most recognizable Technically, it's not even one bone, but lots of separate bones while we're still babies. And, of course, the skull is a symbol that lots of people use like you see on Halloween or a pirate flag or as a symbol that stands for death and those who have died, like you see if you While you might find to think of things like that, keep in mind a skull is not just something that a dead skeleton has. Each of us has a skull as living, breathing human beings. You can even feel it. So there's a positive, all the great things a skull does for us. Can you think of some ways the skull is an important part of your body? There's more than one way. Before I say anything more, it might be fun for you to Okay, you ready? One of the best ways to is to do a little thought experiment. Just think for a moment. What if you didn't have a skull? One thing you might have is that there would be absolutely nothing to protect your brain. Your brain is one of the most you could say the most important, even. It controls every other part of your body. It's where you think and that comes from your senses. Yet the brain is an incredibly soft, mushy part of your body. Having a skull acts like a natural helmet that protects your brain from from everyday movements you might do. But that's not the only thing Think about some of the Your skull has these two round holes, almost like little caves, that On either side of the that protect all of the inner parts involved in your sense of hearing. And don't forget: your skull as well as your mouth. That includes your tongue and your teeth for grinding And that's not even including the fact that it's starting from that you're able to take as well as food and water from here. But even this isn't everything When we look at a picture where we're just seeing the bone, it's really easy to forget your skull does for you. But if we add in an illustration of what sits on top of the bone, the muscles that are Without a skull, none of would have anywhere to sit. In fact, all of them are attached to different parts of your skull. It's these muscles that raise your eyebrow, smile, frown, or show someone anything you're feeling. So while the skull may be a the skull we each have in our head is pretty awesome and useful. And that's not just true for us either. Lots of animals have skulls too. Any animal that has a Birds have skulls, reptiles and all of the mammals too. All of these animals have their skull protects their brain. That's something all of But the skulls of animals can look really different Some are long, like this one, with a beak. Some are short, with Some are gigantic, with Some are pointy and sharp. In fact, scientists can know exactly which animal a skull came from just by looking at it closely. Learning to do that can But even just a few simple can teach you some really For example, check this out. Are the eye sockets facing or are they on the sides of the skull? That can tell you whether it's the skull of a predator animal, or the skull of a prey whose eyes are on the side of its head, so that it can be on the lookout for animals that might want to hunt it. Or, check out this skull. Can you guess what animal Here is something especially It's got a snout, but notice there's no holes There's no nostrils there. So, weird, does this It does. Look instead on the top of its skull. Now, you see two holes there? That's its nostrils. It's the skull of a dolphin. You might have heard before in the top of their head. It's their blowhole. Dolphins are mammals. They're not fish. They have to come up to the So do whales too. A whale has a blowhole as well. By looking at the skull you can discover that the blowhole is actually their nostrils. They don't have nostrils Instead, their nostrils are So in summary, a skull is of the body, both for Without a skull, not only would you have no you'd also have no home or for the muscles that control all of your facial expressions. That's all for this week's question. Thanks, Kien, for asking it. Now, after this video is done playing, my friends and I here at Mystery Science have created a special activity where you can learn more and create a paper skull mask. I hope you'll try it. Okay, for the next episode, I and picked out three that I'm thinking about answering next. When this video is done playing, You can choose from, could a mountain turn into a or why don't shadows have color? So submit your vote I want to hear from all of you watching. There are mysteries all around us. Stay curious, and see you next week.