I'm a sucker for any time I see a chunk of wood on the side of the road. I keep collecting these logs thinking someday I'll find a use. I want to get into more sculptural stuff and I think they have potential. I will admit that even though I've been woodworking for a very long time, I cannot identify a tree to save my life. So I have no idea what I've been collecting. This is one of those projects where I had a huge aha moment that completely And this video is brought to us by Squarespace. To cut this down on the bandsaw safely, I needed a flat spot, so I ran it over the joiner a few times. I must've had this piece for a while because it's pretty dry on the inside, which is exactly what I want. And after that first piece fell off, it was revealed that this chunk of wood is a beautiful piece of hickory, which got me pretty excited. So after roughing out the four sides, I'll run this over my joiner without using I can then take that flat surface and run it through the planer, which will create a parallel flat surface. I can then take one of those milled sides and run it up which I can then take that surface in the planer for a parallel and square face. It is without a doubt, a lot of work, and there's a lot of waste and dust, but it is worth it because this log was going to end up in somebody's fire pit. And it turned out to be a stunning piece of hickory. The rest of the shaping is going to be done on my little band saw here. And my limitation is the cutting height, which is about four and three quarters. So I got to cut this down a little bit more but this guy can handle it. So I drew up this football eyeball shape in Adobe illustrator. It's not meant to be a football or an eyeball. It's just what came out of me at the time. So I'm attaching that printout to the top of the board The trick to cutting thick wood on a small bandsaw is one, you need the right blade link in the description and two cutting slow. Give the blade time to remove the waste and cut just outside So the next thing I need to do is cut off What I didn't think about when drawing up So I have to hot glue it into a cradle and then run it through the bandsaw. Otherwise the teeth of the bandsaw blade will pull bringing your hands up towards the blade. Very dangerous. I didn't get a nice clean cut on the bandsaw. So I'm running the body of the box and the back through the planer. So everything is nice and flat. So the next thing I need to do is cut out the So when we close that kerf later, it will be hidden. For the drawer, you have to go really slow and cut right on the line. I think a lot of issues that people have is You'll get drift, you'll get a bad cut and it's hard to follow the line. Just go as slow as you can. So for the drawer, you cut off the face, you cut off the back, you scoop out the inside, and then you glue the three pieces back together. Again, this is a very dangerous shape to cut on the bandsaw. So I'm hot gluing some wedges on there to stabilize it. Okay. Making bandsaw boxes is how I got started in woodworking. In fact, I believe this was one of my first woodworking When I got started, all the bandsaw boxes that I saw online had a very organic amoeba type shape. So I brought in my graphic design background and started And I made a ton of them. I caught the attention of a publisher and they reached out to At this time, I was still working a full-time job for an ad agency and it All these years later, I'm still selling these books and I've written two other books with the same We have sold thousands of these and it's what got my name on the map and is one I just happened to be in the right place at the right time doing Life is crazy. This is as far as I got, as far as what I had planned. I knew going into this that I was going to make some sort of legs. So a moment ago I sketched up this idea and the And this is actually like a floor standing art This part of the leg would be a walnut cause I And then the very top of the leg would be hickory. So it's almost like the legs were growing So that was one idea that I was just sketching up. And then while looking in the closet, I found this guy. I've had it at least six years. This is Buckeye burl that I've had for a very long time and I haven't Maybe this is it because look at this. By chance, it looks like it's eating this eyeball. And this becomes like a wall hanging unit instead. While I'm cutting up this amazing piece of Buckeye burl, I want to talk to you about today's sponsor Squarespace. You might know Squarespace as a place to build and host your website, but it is so much more than that. If you've ever thought about turning your expertise into a course, Squarespace has the tools to help you create and sell your online courses. With customizable layouts, you can upload your videos, build engaging lessons, and even set up subscriptions or one-time fees. It's never been simpler to grow your business and connect with your audience. Squarespace now makes it incredibly easy to Whether you're selling products or services, you can handle everything from accepting payments via Apple Pay, after pay and clear pay to invoicing clients seamlessly. I have been using Squarespace for over 10 years and I They take care of the technical stuff so So visit squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, visit squarespace.com/makesomething for 10% off Okay, now let's finish up this crazy bandsaw box. So I ended up tracing the shape of the bandsaw box because it would have been hard to trace that shape onto the burl itself. I want the Buckeye burl to have a super high gloss finish That way there's some contrast in visual texture between the two pieces. So the Buckeye will get a super heavy coat of Total Boat epoxy and the Typically, there's a lot of sanding involved with bandsaw boxes because I get around that by flocking the inside of And we had another aha moment with the off cut of the Buckeye. It's already the exact shape of the box. And so if I re-saw a slice off, I can then glue that onto the front of the box. And it gives it this look like the burl is invading the The two pieces got epoxied together. I then added my custom blend of finish to the Hickory. I have a video on the exact formula of this blend. I also sell this blend at cost to my Patreon I then added some hanging hardware on the back and called it a day. This took a complete 180 from where I thought it would end up. I am trying to be more free in the moment And I absolutely love how this came out. I know this is going to be polarized and I know And that's okay. I sell signed copies of my bandsaw box book on my website. You can get it much cheaper on Amazon. I also sell PDFs to bandsaw boxes that are not in the book. And I'll provide that PDF to my Patreon members. That is going to wrap it up. As always be safe, have fun, stay passionate and make something.