All right, let's learn some knots, Now, if you are one of these people who cannot remember how to tie knots and when to use which knot, In this video, I'm gonna show you that can get you out of any situation and techniques, how to tie them super fast and in a way that you will not forget All right, let's begin. If I would ask you to tie you would do something like this. And if you tighten this, Now, if you would do the same, and wrap the tail once more, And if you tighten this and dress it well, you will get a double overhand knot, which is also known as a stopper knot. So this is the knot at the end of your rope. And it's obviously used to stop your rope from slipping through your belaying device and dropping your climber to death All right, let's continue. Make a gun with your right hand where the gun is pointing towards Now take the rope and and make an X here. Wrap the rope again So now, if you look into this, that on one side while on other side we have an X and the rope is going through the X. If we tighten this, or a stopper knot again. So in full speed, And if you would want a triple overhand, you make an X like kind of like extra X, and put the tail through both of them, like so. So you would get the triple overhand knot. Okay, let's make a gun again. And previously we had the gun This time we flip it around. The gun points away from the tail. And we will tie the same knot as before, where we go once, make an X, and now we make a bite like so. If you tighten this, which has two parallel strands on one side and an X on the other side. So this knot is a sliding knot. If I load it, it slides So this is really great knot if you need a tight For example, in the rope axis, it's very commonly used It prevents the carabiner or cross loading. Plus this knot is very, very small So this might be very useful where you need to get Now, one really important aspect is that it's pretty much impossible to visually check it. That's why you have to do a function test, meaning take your load line and pull. The loop should get smaller If you tied it incorrectly, this is what happens. The tail will slip out. And this is called a death knot And death knot basically happens if you point your gun towards the tail. So instead of that, you point away from the tail and then you will get a knot but always, always function check. Now to tie this knot around an object, take the tail and then you start like so. So you go once and then when you go second time, And now you want to take the tail as always. Tail goes through the X. And since this knot I like using it as a stopper knot tied to my red end of my rope bag. So a great little knot, but the biggest disadvantage of it is if you load it really hard, you will have really hard time untying it. In this case, when you have a carabiner, because you can unclip from carabiner and then it's much easier to untie. However, if you would tie then it's another story. All right, let's make but this time don't make it tight. Leave a little hole here so you can stick your finger through. However, instead of I'm gonna stick another rope through. Now I'm gonna tighten And now here is the trick. Notice the last strand on the orange knot So it's this one, So the trick is the same direction. If I go the other direction, So I go the same direction, I cross over itself, And then I put the tail So if I tighten the green knot, And now if I pull them together, and form a knot, which looks like this, where I have four parallel strands And if I flip it over, I have two Xs. One, two. So this knot is called And it's because fishers use this knot to join their fishing lines. However, in fishing lines, since they're very skinny and slippery, they often use triple or While in the climbing, it's obviously a great knot It's really secure. You can use different diameters However, one disadvantage of this knot is that same as with scaffold before, if you load it really heavy, it's gonna be hard to untie. And of course, there are that are even better I will cover them in future episodes. But for the basics, double fisherman's is what everybody should know. Okay, next is the king of the knots, And there are two versions of this knot. And if that's something new for you, I've already made a video how to tie this knot and Now, if you know into your harness, you also know how to tie it So you follow the same procedure So in case you don't want this is a great option. So the method or you tie around some object is called However, there is another way when you want to do this And as you can see, Okay, so this method is actually easier but I will try to do my best. So I have a loop here with the tail at the bottom of my palm. It's not here, it's here, like so. And now I will have to whip this tail. And this is how it looks, Now, at this point, notice the hole where this thumb is poking through and use the left hand to take this tail under and through that hole And I use my index finger to come and help to pull it through. Pull it through. And at this point, this strand, sometimes wants to be on this side, but actually it needs to be Now, if you tighten everything, so the tail strand needs If this is bottom, If that's the case, you will get which is also gonna be easy to untie because the load line, So real life speed where I just need to fix So this way of tying figure of eight is called figure of eight on a bite. So basically you need figure of eight. Now, when it comes to safety, you don't need any but this tail should be So basically one fist or longer. In my case, I have two and a half fists, so it's more than enough. And if you would have a thinner rope, you can obviously proportionally All right, now let's learn about hitches. Now, if you're wondering between a hitch and a knot, a knot can hold its own shape without any external objects needed, while a hitch cannot. So this is holding me, but if I remove this external object the hitch will fall apart. Okay, let's start with the clothes hitch. Take the rope with the right hand, Now the left hand crosses and takes the rope like so. Notice that the thumbs and I have a little bit of Now at this point, uncross your arms, and you will get something like this. Now the right loop goes So once again, I cross my arms, and then the right loop and then you clip this to your carabiner Like so. And then you can Now what's great about this hitch is that you can and it's gonna hold, you loosen the belly Let's say I want to stay at this length, so I'm gonna pull the other end now, like so. And I'm secure. So this cross and uncross technique when you have two hands, and if you don't have two hands available, this is what you do. You clip the carabiner Now since the gate I'm gonna use my right hand, and I'm gonna flip it upside down with the thumb pointing down, which is behind the carabiner. At this point, I'm gonna untwist my hand and clip it to the gate. And screw the carabiner. Now when the gate is pointing left, you need to use your left hand, flip it upside down grab the rope, untwist your hand, and clip it to the gate. And clothes hitch is another great knot if you like playing with sticks. It holds really well. I guess this will get A great visual check Both strands that exit the hitch need to exit from the middle of the knot. So they are both kinda squeezed inside, and they're exiting on the opposite sides. There is a rope between them. Okay, next hitch starts But at this point, instead of over the left one, in front of you, pages of the book, Like so. So here is another angle. I cross my arms, I uncross, Now what I'm doing here, before I'm clipping to the carabiner. And the reason for this twist that I did is to keep the break side of the rope, this one, away from the gate. So with this rope, when it's running, it's not running over the gate. So when I load, the knot will flip. This is totally normal. And then I can go down like so. And as you might have guessed, this is the knot or the hitch in case you would drop And now you need to go down. So take a bit of slack, like so. Now, one thing to know about this hitch is that the most breaking strength it has when these strands It's not down here like It's actually up in the case of a rappel. So, like so, and then you can So hopefully you will never but in case you do, That's also a good way to remember. You can also belay a climber using this. One thing to know about that is that when you're switching between the knot will flip upside down. This is totally normal. So it keeps flipping every time you switch taking slack to giving slack. That's how it should be. Another very critical thing to know is that it will twist So this is not the best knot if you want to rappel a lot, a lot, a lot. You will have a lot, a lot, So in case of emergency, once again, cross your arms, uncross, and then pray. And before you go down, before you unclip any other protection. All right, moving on to friction hitches. These are special hitches but when you load it, it bites. And this is super useful from backuping your belaying device to rigging something where or rescuing somebody or yourself. And I'm gonna show you three but don't worry, they're kind of similar. So I'm gonna explain the differences so you can understand in which application which one is better. All right, let's start with the Prusik. The first thing I do when I tie Prusik is move my loop to the side a little bit. Then I pass the knot and make it tight again. Then I pass the knot Notice that I'm keeping towards each other, like here. And then I pass a third time, like so. Now, at this point, to offset the knot. So I'm gonna pull on this strand while maintaining the knot neat. So that's the end result. Now, to double-check the Prusik, you can kind of see and all the coils are nice There is nothing overlapping here. And you can clip it to yourself, like so, and it should hold you. Now, Prusiks are not releasable and when you load it hard, And to help to release, you kind of want to open that mouth and that helps to loosen up the prusik. So Prusiks are very strong, So if you're not planning to move it much in certain rigging situations, All right, next one is a Klemheist. For this one, I like to offset and then take the other end And I measure one finger here, and then you start rolling around or coiling around. This is much easier than original Prusik. And at this point, you take the knot, pass through the upper loop, So again, it's important and also to make sure that this loop that you just passed your rope through is not longer than Of course, when you're gonna load it, it's gonna stretch, and that's okay. But if you make it too long, All right, the Klemheist. Same as the Prusik, it's very strong and not releasable under tension. However, unlike the Prasic, well-tight Klemheist And similar to Prusik, you want to open this lip That helps to loosen it up. Now, unlike Prusiks, So it works best if It kind of works if you pull up as well, but it's not designed for that, and it's gonna be much weaker. So due to the fact to release sometimes, a lot of climbers prefer when you need to ascend the rope. So you can move it easier up move it up and then load it. All right, and the last one It starts similar to the Klemheist. I like to offset this knot a little bit, and then start wrapping around And now at this point, instead of putting the knot what we did with the Klemheist, you want to take both of these loops and clip it with the carabiner. So once you load it, but it should grab. And autoblock is commonly used as a backup for your belay device So since it doesn't bite that much, it's still okay because to hold the break side of the rope. However, the ability is what makes it So here's another demonstration, Although being the weakest it still can hold my weight. However, if I pull on it Now, the great thing about these Prusiks that they can be made tied into the loop One thing you has to be at least than the rope you're gonna be using it on. And in general, the thinner the cord is, the stronger the Prusik is gonna grab. And for climbing applications, the good diameter is between Now, other things that affect how strongly the Prusik is gonna bite you're gonna make. So with every Prusik, you can loop it as many times as it's needed. There is no hard rule. Usually you start around three, and then you have to test it to see if it's strong enough, but not too strong. So it's great idea because it also depends and on your slippiness of your rope. And if your rope, for example, it's gonna be even slippier. So you might need more wraps. Also, you can tie Prusiks on two ropes. For example, when you're rappelling, is that two ropes have and usually the prasic will bite harder. So you might need less wraps. So very budget-friendly but you can also buy They are even better, because they are softer, However, make sure They're used for other applications. You need a thinner one for sport climbing. And in case you get stuck on the route and you want to escape, well, maybe you have shoes with laces that you can make your Prusik out of. And here, I forgot to mention one very important thing about Prusiks, that you should not rely on them fully. You always have to have All right, so of course, but to keep your brain from melting, I'm going to keep them And for now, I want to say for sponsoring this video, since I put a lot of energy to make them as quality as possible. It's great to partner with the brand who also cares about quality a lot. So thank you, Mammut. And thank you, every single of you by visiting my website. That helps a ton. So I can make more of these videos. I'm so bad at these outros. I'm going to leave it like that.