My name is Mert. I'm German-Turkish. I'm Andrew. I'm Kevin. I'm from France. We are in KLCC, in the we're going to see what people's first impressions video because, in an earlier video about 6 months the first impression of Kuala Lumpur is not I'm talking about. Then we're going to see what Malaysia. You don't like it at first, and it gets better, I think. But when you first see tourists, I think. The initial impression is not time? Yeah, I didn't like it. I mean, it was just do you think it's clean? No. This trip is for here already for so long or how long have you been after the first impressions of Kuala Lumpur. We first impressions are not so great and I tried like it? I'm just very impressed, you know? Petronas Towers, and it's just, it's just very many cities in the world similar. I mean, maybe right? In terms of, like, the skyscrapers and the what it's like culturally, so I want to maybe get it's like the daily life here, but the city's, European level. Without any doubt. It maybe even driving better here than backhome. True, the same it's not clean, but I think developed over the I think it's super clean, you know? I think it's say is, you know, it's a new town, relatively new unique character. I mean, in some parts, yes, like 20 skyscrapers next to each other. So maybe you know, is this? Otherwise, I think it's know? H. ve you been able to interact with a lot I just came yesterday, you know? But I, I've heard you know? They're super kind and welcoming. I was there 3, four months a few years ago I just. people on the Earth, so I imagine it's similar right? So maybe the facilities, everything is love Indonesia, and I just want to basically you know? Where is, like, a better place for the that. So, ah, okay. Are you here alone, or are yeah. So I'm actually also working, so yeah, I'm when it's in the morning and in Germany, I will to just discover and roam around, and afternoon, a lot of strikes. They, they cannot really I would say. So there's often delays with trains, I think things I managed here are really good. And I'd say world-class city. World-class city, have a message to the world or some wisdom to going to Thailand, everyone is going to, I don't a blind spot I would say for many people. So like, to the very touristic and well-discovered and see like a different world here, different know. If you ask them. in Europe. hey, I'm is on the map. Many people haven't heard of the has lots to offer. That's what I, that's would that's my message. It's my first time I got here it's great, yeah, it's a gorgeous city, and actually 6 months ago, and he was saying he loves not that good...? He should have eaten where I place right across from my hotel. It was amazing called Junk and they had a full of junk burger, I've ever had. Coffee is hard to find 'cause I The Starbucks is open. Yeah, today. Yesterday I you think? Oh my God, yeah, yeah, yeah. I So compared to Bangkok? Compared to Bangkok it's building materials that than So, um, compared wealthier. Oh, yeah, yeah, wow. And um, they use that I like about KL, I don't want to say anything spacious. I love Bangkok but I mean it's amazing. I've been taking pictures of trees everywhere, didn't get torn down. You planning to do something what I do usually when I go on holiday. Yeah here at the Petronas Towers, so yeah, I'm just going to stay? Uh, I'm leaving on Sunday, so just want to come back, I want to bring my friends. been in Kuala already? Yes. How many times have time. Can you remember the very first time when Uh... Just so-so. Yeah, okay? Because the traffic it's.... Yeah, yeah, traffic jam. And how about Okay. yes, because it's warm here and the staying here for so long? I study here. What nice city to study in, Kuala Lumpur? Uh, yes, okay. Yes. And because it's nearby my city. Oh, Guangzhou to here it's nearly 4 hours. So you go expensive. Hey, but do you also mix with local from other countries? It depends. It depends. But the food over here, lose from the Chinese food Do you like the food here? I just say it's not sweet. And I actually don't really like curry. Ah, is it also too sweet for you or is it also nice? hot pot. Do you think it's clean in Kuala Lumpur? that clean. It depends. This area is, I think area you go and... Have you been anywhere else and Singapore. Out of these three, these are which one do you prefer? Thailand. Oh yeah? And I've been here like from yesterday, so just one in? Yeah, yeah, from Australia. I've been working Yeah. You go back to Australia then after this? five months in Asia, like, having a whole trip. really cheap, cheap flight from Australia. Really I wanted to go there. And then I can go everywhere impressions of Kuala Lumpur? I really like it. I Okay. I'm living like in the suburbs, like, close airport to your hotel or your hostel? By... like 2 hours by bus so as I came like at 11 PM. So safe and all? I think for countries like that, to be honest. There are some suburbs that are it's quite clean. And do you feel safe here? Like alone, I felt like a bit...Not scared but... it's totally safe, I think for the moment. Where nice. So, and you from France. France. Where is to Paris a lot? Yeah, I have, a lot of friends of people saying like if you compare Kuala Lumpur quite clean. Yeah, but Paris has a bad reputation not clean and we have a lot of cigarettesbuts on was it good? Yeah, it was quite good, yeah. The first thing I felt is like humidity. We are both it's not as hard as I thought. I also figured stay quite a bit inside or in the shade or go let's say before, you know, get up early. Yeah, like, it's fresh and, and cool. If you enjoyed you would really help this channel if you share content in Kuala Lumpur or in South East Asia showing you the beauty of Southeast Asia Thank you subscribers, thank you members, and would like to say from KLCC in the heart of