Translator: Patricia Aguirre I like exploring the subject and in particular, I like that's what I'm going to talk about today. I've been lucky to spend the last 30 years Initially, as an exhibit designer, and lately as a creative director A famous ad guy, George Lois, said, &quot;Creativity can solve The creative act, the defeat of habit But I love this quote, And in fact, I could almost because, in a way, It captures everything I believe about the power of creativity But I'm going to unpack it a little bit, and share just five things I have learnt about using creativity to solve problems. The first thing is to define And this is very important. It seems mundane, but before you start you need to define to figure out what you have What's available? What resources It's a little hard to see, 45 years ago, they faced the problem that was caused They were on their way to the Moon; on the way there, an explosion happened, The biggest one was that the CO2 level It was making the air they were breathing They needed to figure that problem out. In order to figure it out, They had to define that was available to help them The guys in NASA ground control trying to figure out &quot;What can we put together? What can we create They needed to know thinking of something that was That wasn't going to help them at all. First thing that is really important I would say that trying to solve is like playing squash It just doesn't work. The second thing I have learnt They need to be provoked. You need to overcome the force of habit I want to talk about forces today. I am a bit of a science nerd I'm going to talk about Newton's First Law is unless acted upon What does that mean? That means that this chair here, which has been sitting here will stay there doing nothing until acted upon Simple enough. There are forces at play right now. There's the force of gravity down, It's a balanced force. It's a body at rest. You could say It's its habit state. And then an unbalanced force So I'm going to mash up and come up with what I am calling a habit will remain a habit That's what we're going An unbalanced force is an original idea. This guy, Edward de Bono, It's kind of a weird name. By the way, Edward de Bono the father of lateral thinking, He came up with a name Po. 'Po' is an extraction from words like hypothesis, suppose, possible and poetry. These words give you a clue It is also an acronym and that's the one I like: It suggests that there's that creativity requires some action A Po is an idea, but more than that a Po is a crazy, radical, That's the power of Po. So how does it work? Let's do We've all been in those And today we'll brainstorm ideas On the board we might have listed There's lot of Italian places, We'll stay away from those. We start. People are throwing out ideas. What about authentic Mexican? What about Russian? Nepalese? What about a high-end burger place? That doesn't sound too good. Then someone shouts out &quot;How about a restaurant Boom. That's a Po. A crazy idea that on the surface OK. So what do we do now? The third thing I've learnt You don't toss them out immediately. In order for that Po to be powerful, You need to let it live. You need to consider the possibilities. What would happen A Po is like a manufactured crisis. A restaurant that doesn't serve food. It's easy to dismiss it, And the way to treat it is, &quot;Well, that happened, it's a crisis, What are we going to do? In Apollo 13, they didn't need another Po The crisis was the thing that set up that provoke them to have to be creative, &quot;How are we going to do this? What are we going to do? How are we going to solve the problem?&quot; I know! What about we use We'll cut some hoses from the suits. We'll use socks. Let's use that. Let's put all the stuff together No one would have thought of doing this The crisis, the Po, that allowed us to consider to consider the creative potential and bring it up together They were up against time, as well. They had a deadline Deadlines are another great kind of Po. My favorite deadline, December 31, 1969. That's the deadline that was implied that they were going to put before the end of the 1960s. He liked that person &quot;How about a restaurant without food?&quot;, except he said &quot;What about we put a man He didn't manufacture he manufactured a real one. He put the US reputation on the line. And he did it with optimism. That leads us You need to be optimistically objective. You need to look at how a problem You have to be hopeful and optimistic that that crazy idea that's going to provoke new ideas, So let's go back to our restaurant How could that work? The Po is powerful We say, &quot;OK, let's make it work. A restaurant that doesn't serve food. It doesn't serve food If you go in there, you want to eat. You have to bring the food in yourself. People go to parks, they bring food It's kind of like an indoor picnic. What will we do? We'll provide We'll provide nice tables and chairs, That's the way we can differentiate. They bring the food, We give a great variety, great selection. Maybe we could have a sharing table. Lots of people bring their own thing. We have a sharing table over here, We can heat up the food and provide Maybe we can provide some entertainment. Maybe the waiters could sing. Maybe they could bring the food We'd provide a little stage. A little space for them to get together, And after a while you start to see We wouldn't have thought if hadn't let that crazy idea exist. And actually treated it that there might be a solution in there. And some of the things could actually be useful when it comes So in terms of a brainstorming exercise, in terms of being able to be open it is really,really useful. This is a little mock-up of what They built it quickly They ran off at the beginning &quot;What do these guys have up there? Let's figure it out and built this thing.&quot; They brought it all together, And they did it with optimism. They didn't think, No. They were hoping and praying. They were believing it would work. It's going to work! We can use We can use socks, this hose, we'll cut it off It could work. There's no creative value There's no creative value in looking It's far more productive, to look at the reasons I can tell you as a creative person I really do. All the time. And there's power in that. A lot of creative people There's a force in that Last thing I've learnt is to celebrate A lot of the work I do now I rarely work alone. I rarely have I work with a team. One of the things is that it isn't great to collaborate with People that think the same ways as me, that believe the same ways as me. It's really great to have a mixed bag, a whole lot of different kinds of people There's value It's a greater potential or the different idea Someone with a different that is put on the board Now we have to unpack that In that process we want to treat This is something I've learnt and like many husbands, I love my wife and we are very similar. We're very similar in lots of ways. And that's one of the things we share the same values. But we do think about things We have different ideas sometimes. Sometimes she'd say things And then, after a little bit, I realize This happened a couple We have two young children. We were having a disagreement about how we resolve something. During the course of the discussion, and I was like, &quot;Well, no. We talked it through. Then finally, I got to the point And then a funny thing happened. She got mad at me because she thought that I was just agreeing with her Then I got mad at her It was a great idea and I was trying &quot;It's not important for me to be right. Because at the end of the day, what really counted, Not whether I was right. This is a picture of the final air filter that saved their lives. I don't think anyone cared whose idea was or to use plastic bags I don't think anyone cared. That was what was important. Best idea wins. Not who has it. Just to quickly conclude: Number one, define the constraints. Know the parameters you're working within. They're helpful, can actually help you, Number two, provoke ideas. Force them happen, push them. Number three, give absurd ideas respect. Give them the respect Say, &quot;Well, this happen. We're going to talk it through. When you do that, be optimistic. Look at the possibilities Not, &quot;Eh... It's probably Again, there's no creative value And lastly, celebrate great ideas, And if there is especially collaborative creativity, We've got a lot of problems in the world, We talked about a few of them today. I'm going to leave you with a big problem. We should have a giant brainstorming It involves a space craft. It has humans on it. And the CO2 level is raising. And the level of CO2 that we're running out of time. We need to solve the problem. Everything we need to solve We just have to overcome We need to be creative and have new ideas. Best idea wins. Thank you. (Applause)