(rocket blasting) - [Narrator] After the race to the moon the United States charts a new And a robotic mission to Jupiter struggles to get off the ground. - [John] We started and really began to find the warts on it. - [Narrator] Meanwhile another spacecraft attempts to complete the first reconnaissance - [Torrence] The initial that we were going to be in great danger of getting really fuzzy pictures if we didn't do something - ISS wide angle electronics is off. (faint speaking) - [William] And at close encounter we would all be holding our breaths. You can't believe how exciting that was. - [Ed] The images that revealed a world unlike any (people exclaiming) - [Narrator] Yet even the future of planetary - [Female Speaker] I'm reconciling all this to know what the next generation's - [Narrator] The Footsteps of Voyager JPL and the beginnings of the Space Age. Next. (light music) I was strolling on the Moon one day In the merry, merry month of December - May, May! May is the month this year. - [Narrator] In December of 1972 Apollo 17 astronauts Harrison Schmitt and Gene Cernan took the Da, da, da, da, da, da, da Dee, da, dee - Okay, Bob. Let me tell you, Bob. This flag is a beautiful picture. That's beautiful. This has gotta be one of the I guarantee you. - [Narrator] NASA had But the race against the Soviet Union to be the first to the Moon had been won. America's priorities - [Gene] This is Gene And as I take man's last I'd like to just let what I that America's challenge of today has forged man's destiny of tomorrow. Godspeed the crew of Apollo 17. (intense orchestral music) - [Narrator] Long before this moment NASA was charting a new future with a very different kind of spacecraft. One with wings that could The Shuttle, as it came to be known, could be reused over and over again to ferry astronauts and cargo into space. Early designs envisioned an that would launch the Shuttle into orbit. This extraordinary concept as it was unrealistic. The final design was severely scaled back. What did not change were expectations. Proponents promised that access to space would The Shuttle was to be cheaper and safer. But to make the economic model work meant abandoning expendable rockets. The Shuttle's manifest for NASA, commercial companies, and even defense and But the Shuttle's reach went And that was not good news for - This was threatening the But in this monopoly craze NASA said, no, you can't just buy regular launch vehicles that were available. We're gonna liquidate those. We're gonna force them to close. - [Narrator] Bruce Murray was But he viewed the policy as a threat to the entire space agency. - And so there were two issues. One was my programmatic view that this was a crazy thing to do, and would, by the way, kill the planetary program, which it did for a decade. But more generally, it So the agency that had been able to do extraordinary things like Apollo was going to consciously transform itself to running a space transportation system because it had gained a monopoly. This was dreadfully wrong on both grounds. (rocket launching) - [Narrator] Murray's when the Shuttle first flew. The Shuttle not only looked it impressively performed like one. (people cheering) And Murray's opinions did nothing to discourage an from trying to hitch The team's leader was Charles Elachi. And he pitched a series of - And basically, it's a It will be configured in this arrangement. Once we get in orbit then the antenna panels will be opened which will take about to open the antennas. - [Narrator] NASA said And the second flight carried on board the Shuttle Imaging Radar A, the first in a series of radar payloads. - [Male Speaker] Okay, Sally. We've got the arm secured right now. We're just getting ready We've got the power on and we're getting ready to turn it on. - [Sally Ride] Okay, sounds good. - [Narrator] The radar experiments demonstrated how the Shuttle could be used to better understand our own planet. But for spacecraft the Shuttle's limitations (deliberative orchestral music) Jupiter. Only the Sun is larger than It is two and a half times the mass of all the other planets in The Pioneer and Voyager missions had provided the first flyby The next step was to send an orbiter. - There was something called the Jupiter Orbiter with Probe, JOP. And the science team was consisted only of fields and particle people And they wanted to build a probe that would go into the and the simplest spacecraft would have just be a spinning spacecraft. And you could slap some on the spinning spacecraft, and you had a winner. - [Narrator] Not everyone thought so. Other scientists were clamoring for different instruments and a camera. And that posed a dilemma. Taking images requires a steady platform while measuring magnetic fields calls for a spinning spacecraft. To solve these conflicting requirements, NASA assigned the project to JPL in 1975. The result was Galileo, a novel engineering design featuring both spinning - That quickly escalated major big design. Big cost change, big mass change. We started tearing this thing apart and really began to find the warts on it and, you know, attack them one by one. But the spacecraft got bigger and more complex as a result of that. - [Narrator] Galileo of being the first planetary mission assigned for deployment by the Shuttle. But to travel beyond Earth orbit would require strapping on There were two boosters One was the Centaur. - The problem with a If there's any kind of into the Shuttle bay while they're trying to it could be potentially catastrophic. A very volatile fuel. - [Narrator] The Centaur and NASA ruled out its use. - And they were right, It was not safe. So, cancel that. And the only other thing we have is a solid fuel rocket called the IUS, which is actually an Air And you can use that. But that won't get you to Jupiter! - [Narrator] That was was still on the drawing boards and it was not powerful enough. To use this booster also required a gravity assist around Mars. The launch dates slipped a year resulting in the first in a Then it was realized than the Shuttle could safely lift. More powerful engines had to be built. NASA next directed JPL to explore dividing the mission in two: launching the spacecraft and the probe on separate That plan was scrapped, too. Galileo was again delayed. - There's this kind of back and forth. And every time the JPL engineers are kind of back to the drawing board accommodating different different trajectories every time, they have and it's just a major headache here. - [Narrator] Galileo also became And now engineering on the floor of the House. - Earlier this year we passed a NASA authorization bill overwhelmingly in this House that said that we would go with the IUS. Now, you can vote any way you want to. I have no vested interest. - The problem here is that will get Galileo into It may be launched probably a year later, but as compared to the it will get there a year earlier. - [Narrator] The booster when President Ronald that by law ordered NASA to Galileo's launch date was but at least there was now a path forward. (camera shuttering) Or so it seemed. (deliberative ambient music) Galileo survived. Bruce Murray did not. In trying to keep JPL he had burned one - It's a real pleasure to be here. We at last have a Director. And it turns out he's as far as I'm concerned. A man I'm proud to call my (people applauding) - [Narrator] Lew Allen was a with a PhD in nuclear physics. His resume included stints as director of the National Security Agency, director of the National commander of Air Force Systems Command, and Air Force Chief of Staff. - My space experience in the Air Force was almost entirely associated with the National Reconnaissance Office. These reconnaissance missions than planetary missions, but they weren't all that different. So coming to JPL was in the sense that it was of the kind of work that I'd - [Narrator] Whereas Murray Allen's demeanor was calm and reassuring. - We who did not contribute but who have admired the envy you. And I consider it an honor - [Narrator] But there were concerns about how Allen's military especially by Caltech, - They were extremely that they were bringing just when the lab was going and this perception that well now JPL was just becoming basically - [Narrator] Caltech instructed JPL to play down He was also worried that the news media might view a general's arrival as signaling a dramatic change and NASA's capitulation to Goldberger declared there the civilian space or an open R&amp;D facility - So they worked hard to One way they did that was not as General Allen, but as Dr. Allen, because he did have a He did have scientific credentials. - [Narrator] Before Allen's arrival NASA's leadership had instructed JPL to take on work for the Pentagon and the lab had complied. One involved the Strategic JPL's role was to find ways of tracking the path of incoming missiles that were to be destroyed by lasers. Another project was underway for the Army, an attempt to sort and fast-moving and complicated events taking place on the battlefield. - That situation was so that in some desperation they turned to JPL because they and tough enough to make in this particular area. - [Narrator] But Dr. Allen's main interest was now space exploration. And early on, he announced that JPL would be actually to no more than 20% of its workload. And he articulated a policy restricting the type of defense activities the lab would take on - We should view the that the JPL role should be early, that we make our contributions on the front edge of technology and phase out then of the programs just as quickly as we can. - [Narrator] This policy coincided with a shift in Washington in favor of new planetary missions. Soon, Allen would have more work than the lab knew how to handle. - So our problems quickly that we were outgrowing our facilities. (people applauding) So we tried different techniques for restricting the size of the workforce. None of them worked. (laughing) The people at JPL who were far too inventive to be influenced via a broad policy idea that one shouldn't grow. And so we continued to grow. - [Narrator] Earth science Another was astronomy. The lab had played a vital role in the first infrared And now, JPL was busy for the much anticipated A radar mission to Venus was underway. So was an orbiter to circle Mars. There was even good news about Galileo. It was being packed up and shipped by truck convoy The spacecraft's next scheduled Then, it would finally But as Galileo made its way to the Cape another spacecraft was about to make history. (vehicles whirring) (deliberative orchestral music) After triumphs at Jupiter and Saturn Voyager 2 was closing in with the ice giant planet Uranus. Voyager's journey to this point And the wear and tear of a billion miles was beginning to show. The scan platform that was prone to seizing up. Transmitting instructions was an elaborate chore as the primary receiver and the backup was only partially working. Getting a signal back from One-way transmission time - The extension of the I think highlights really one and that was the Deep Space Network. - [Narrator] The Deep Space arrayed in three strategic This is the essential link with all of NASA's - Those encounters at Uranus and Neptune would have been impossible without what the Deep Space Network, the DSN, did to get that data back. When you think about it, you've got the Voyager radio transmitter powered at about 23 watts, which is about the power of And we're trying to pick up from well over a billion miles away. And picking out that from that vast background of outer space is really a remarkable achievement, - [Narrator] Plotting Voyager's encounter was another challenge. That was because compared Uranus is flipped on its side, caused perhaps by a - Uranus was a real planning challenge. And the reason why is and two, Uranus is kind And we're now instead of seeing where you can fly through this plane and get one after the other, we're looking at a bullseye. - [Narrator] That meant and its moons and rings would Coping with so much to see in would make this the most intense of all the Voyager encounters. - You're given this pulse And you get it all at once. You get high resolution. It comes up very, very quickly because these moons are small and you're flying by it at large velocity. So in a blink of an eye basically you go from a to in your face high resolution, and then gone again. - You're gonna go by every It presented kind of an extreme version of the scientific competition Everybody wanted to look - [Narrator] As he had Project Scientist Ed Stone sought consensus, and then made decisions. - I would take a poll. But it was not literally a vote in a sense because I didn't feel that the science should It really had to be decided on its value. And that had to be something that ultimately the group understood. In some cases, I had to make it was really weighing And it was a judgment call. - [Narrator] The biggest worry was whether anything could be seen at all. Anyone who has ever used a camera knows that taking a picture in focus requires a steady hand and ample light. Voyager was moving at over And sunlight at Uranus is 400 - One half of Uranus in fact, The initial calculation showed that we were going to be in great danger of getting really fuzzy pictures of practically everything And so we actually did some with the help of the engineering teams. (people chattering) - It ended at 0623. - We called it our anti-smear campaign. We basically improved our by remotely changing how we operated it. - [Narrator] Scientists could for their astounding precision. Voyager would arrive just a single minute off the predicted schedule, a schedule calculated five years before. Now came the mad rush to squeeze close to 100 - Off. (faint speaking) is off. There are no temperatures in alarm. All items are as expected. Temperature (faint speaking). - We were bringing our and sleeping overnight and not miss any of the great discoveries that were occurring on a regular basis. Even though we couldn't we knew that there were going (intense ambient music) - [Narrator] The initial surprise though was the lack of a surprise. - We thought we'd see bands like we had seen at Jupiter and Saturn. And Uranus presented to us a blank face. - [Narrator] That first Uranus turned out to be the coldest planet in the solar system. Here, winds blow more than twice the speed of hurricanes on earth. Another surprise was the The poles here reside near the equator, twisting and turning like a corkscrew. And to everyone's delight two new narrow rings and 10 The biggest surprise though - Larry, I've heard you refer to this as probably the most exotic - Well, I think exotic Miranda surpassed our No one possibly imagined what - Miranda just looked incredible. The amount of detailed structure, it looked like someone had just maybe like a clay or something, sort of squeezed on it and given it all these - Miranda was another one of of two or three different types of terrain that looked like you just and then ripped apart the images and then put them together - [Linda] It was clear that Some kind of activity had changed it from when it originally formed. - [Rich] It was probably hit which actually disrupted So you now have a big chunk of And these big chunks came together, which created these peculiar terrains. - [Narrator] This first provided a bounty of discoveries. And NASA saw the encounter to underscore to the press that 1986 was the agency's - Thanks, Jim. It's been a real pleasure as I'm sure it's been for all of you. It's been a brilliant - [Narrator] But the plan backfired. These reporters were almost to a person unabashed supporters of And the answer to one question had the effect of waving a red flag in front of a herd of disgruntled bulls. - This is pretty much the None of us in this room are of any real consequence coming - As I just mentioned, it is very likely that there will not be for a couple of centuries. And so this is it. - To what extent is the does not have its own Halley mission a loss of face or a step backwards in terms of keeping the United States preeminent in space technology? - What follow up plans you - I'm a kind of having a hard to know what the next generation's going to be doing in space. - What assurance can you really offer that the United States to pursue planetary science and that when we see it won't be international - [Male Speaker] Final question, Kelly Beatty, Sky and Telescope. - Dr. Edelson did a meeting of planetary scientists in October. Dr. Allen stated that planetary science does not seem to be highly Would you like to comment on that please? (laughing) - [Lew] Dr. Edelson? - Gosh, I didn't make that statement. - [Male Speaker] I don't think so, sir. - Maybe you oughta ask Dr. - [Male Speaker] I didn't - We do need to continue There are things which are And it should compete with other important things such as the great observatories. - And ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, We'd like to remind you - [Narrator] The rush to get Expectations were far And in contrast to Voyager the Shuttle program was not Access to space had not become routine, cheaper, or safer. Two days after the scientists at JPL paused of the next Shuttle flight. - We were meeting in our daily and we'd had them through the weekends during that time period. And we had just finished discussing what we were going to talk about in the press conference that day. And it was time for the launch And so we had the television and we broke our meeting up - [Male Speaker] T minus We have main engine start. Four, three, two, one. And lift off. Lift off of the 25th And it has cleared the tower. (faint radio chatter) - And we were pleased that And then suddenly, we and trails of material going And it slowly dawned on us that the Challenger had - [Male Speaker] Flight controllers here looking very Obviously, a major malfunction. - [Ellis] It was a tremendous shock. - [Male Speaker] We have no downlink. - We had two TV monitors up; one that was streaming the and the second with the at the Challenger. So hard to watch those. Success... tremendous success with Voyager versus the heartbreak of what (somber ambient music) - [Narrator] The loss of was a major shock to the nation and an enormous setback for NASA. All Shuttle flights were grounded. With no Shuttle and no there was no doorway into Galileo was wrapped up and Other missions to Venus, Saturn, and Mars were placed on hold. - All of you recall, I'm sure, that 1986 was to be the It began magnificently with But of course the year of space science was when the Challenger accident We are overall looking at a in the achievement of from the exploration of the solar system. Satellite programs will for a substantial period of time. (door thudding) (somber orchestral music) - [Narrator] As NASA's Shuttle program worked to recover from Voyager 2 continued on its journey and final planetary encounter. (people chattering) - Three, two, one. Just about a million miles left to travel for the robot Voyager spacecraft to the last planet in the solar system, its close approach to Neptune. Scientists are eagerly awaiting the closeup pictures of And Project Scientist Ed Stone says they'll be looking - Neptune, 30 times as far very cold, very remote - [Narrator] Neptune is so far away that it cannot be seen with the naked eye. It was discovered only through This was the best before Voyager 2. - It's very, very dark at Neptune. We knew that there were rings at Neptune. The rings themselves were Seen against a jet black background with sunlight which is 1,000 times dimmer than it is on Earth. So you've got everything - [Narrator] Once again Voyager had to be to have any hope of - If the spacecraft is which is to slowly weave, bob around it, it rotates around like this, you're just gonna smear everything. - And so we had to go into and come up with very to allow the spacecraft - [Narrator] More advances in A global array of antennas and Voyager itself was - The spacecraft has It's a deaf in one ear essentially, one of the receivers. It's tone deaf in the other ear. It's got an arthritic scan platform. It's hung up on us several times. It's got memory lapses. It's got other, you know, the kinds of things you can associate with degradation, with age. But nevertheless, it's got a personality and it's also got a brain. - [Narrator] And that a massive swirling storm, previously unknown moons and ring arcs. These were early signs that Neptune would not be a bland world. - It was kind of an amazing encounter. I'm still not exactly but it was a huge public affairs success. - [Narrator] With each encounter Voyager became better known. And scientists and engineers Some were even doubling - We'll do the opening. - We come to you. - You say a few words. We say let's have examples - The Neptune encounter. I got to be the host of the PBS show called Neptune All Night. It was four hours of sitting there in front of the TV monitor for people who wanted to stay up all night for the encounter. - Three, two, one. Roll the opening. - Opening rolling. - [Narrator] Another anchor was a young engineer named Suzanne Dodd. - With us this morning, I just got asked. I think JPL was looking who knew something about and what Voyager was gonna do. - [Narrator] Dodd joined the Voyager team right out of college. She had moved up the ranks and was now responsible for the commands that would have Voyager executing a daredevil fly by of Neptune. - I thought, okay, my career 'cause I built the And if it goes wrong, - [Narrator] A sense and journalists and writers were converging to be a part the last picture show. - It was like a reunion. I mean, they came out here and they melded with the scientists. The scientists had a great time. They got a lot of good press coverage. It was a festival. - [Narrator] And at No one knew that better than a Dutch-born, sleep deprived JPLer named It was his job to provide with the latest images that were coming quite in this era before the internet. - In those days as soon as they saw you come in with the boxes with photographs was everybody had a deadline. And it was exactly 15 seconds Okay. Just before you leave here, come by, and I will get you a bunch All right? - Thank you. Then I had to turn around, go to the photo lab, and see what was coming in see how it was processed. Then have 600 to 800 of those individual photographs printed, of each stacks of photographs that high. That had to happen through the night. But I had to stay there and printed, and glued on the Three weeks, I saw no bed. But boy, I wouldn't have There's no way you can describe, or I cannot, the feeling when you look at in the history of our species. Nobody else has seen it. - It's kinda interesting. Beautiful pictures frequently are the ones that also have a lot of (laughing) - We've been in the seeing Neptune as slowly to something filling the Neptune itself is a We are looking at a The surface, if any, is far below. We have no idea what's deep down there. (people exclaiming) - And at close encounter we would all be in von And you'd get these incredible pictures which nobody had ever seen before. And you'd sit there and You can't believe how exciting that was. - [Narrator] As Neptune's dark spot the size of the Earth other features became apparent too. Just below the dark spot was circling Neptune so fast Here winds blow over 1,200 miles per hour, the fastest in the solar system. Voyager was moving fast skimming just above the (intense ambient music) Then the gravitational force of the planet bent the spacecraft downwards Scientists who were accustomed were still amazed by what they - Last night was certainly I think it's the most exciting night that I can remember from that we've had with Voyager, and there have been some exciting nights. Without a question the images that were returned this morning revealed a world unlike any - It seemed like a lot of these flybys often happened in the middle of the night or early morning hours. It seemed like that and (people chattering) - Well, it's like all of those things. Voyager put all the things and put it in one place again. - I think for me, one of the highlights, to see those early pictures come back and people pointing at what do you think that means or what do you think is going on? - [Ed] What is it? - It's a crocodile of the solar system. (laughing) - Beautiful. - Oh, there are craters there. - [Narrator] What Voyager saw was a frigid world of rock and ice. - And it also had a very thin atmosphere. And the atmosphere had these these very, very thin narrow clouds. You guys see a limb haze? I think that's a wind streak. - [Brad] Oh, they are wind streaks. No question about it. - How can you have a wind streak with such a tenuous atmosphere though? - You get the winds to blow. - To follow the migrations? You had to blow very hard. - If you get the winds blow fast enough. - Yeah, but did you calculate in a (faint speaking) atmosphere? - Obviously, it knows how fast to blow because it's certainly - Triton had a very, Very few craters. Very odd, chaotic looking terrain. Very disturbed. There are areas that look I mean, craterless. - [Narrator] Here perhaps in the entire solar system. Triton's surface has few craters, which suggests that the surface is for some A smudge on one of Voyager's images so small as to almost go unnoticed provided a clue as to why. - We saw these vents of things. And the thing is only like 20 I mean, it's one of the And it's got things erupting on it. - [Narrator] And though the implications were spectacular. (intense ambient music) These were erupting geysers shooting out material miles into space. (intense rumbling) In other places, there were all of it believed caused underneath Triton's surface. - A world at the very, very Frozen. We thought it would be And it turns out to be That was a great surprise. - I think we were all just that it had been. I mean this, for everybody, had been the journey of a lifetime. There's no doubt that from this mission had never been matched by any other mission. Voyager discovered the which really told us that The objects in the solar and are continuing to evolve. And I think for a science team that was a unique experience which will be the highlight of the Voyager scientists. - I think we should just who's here from that 1972 imaging team? (people laughing) - I think it was very sad for some of the people on the project who had been there for all four encounters and really had had their whole life revolve around these four encounters. They had their plan their children in between encounters. And you know, you could watch your family - Here's to Kennedy. We couldn't have done it without her! (people cheering) - So not only are you sort of done with the science aspect of the mission, but you're really losing as they go out and start - If I really think about what's happened in the last few days, it's intellectually perhaps one of the most Emotionally, it's one of the saddest. I've been here... For the last 10 years I've worked on this mission, always anticipated one realizing they'd be fantastic, realizing that there'd be And it's over. We've done it. We've finished the first reconnaissance of the entire solar system. We've rewritten the textbooks. What do you do next, you know? - [Narrator] The adventures In 1990, Voyager 1, over three and a half billion snapped these images. This first ever family was the idea of scientist Carl Sagan. - [Child] Hello from the - Sagan also led the team that designed Voyager's Golden Record. It is a greeting card containing sights and should one day somewhere a wayfarer were to stumble and wonder who had sent A member of the record team and later Sagan's wife was Ann Druyan. Together, they wrote about our pale blue dot. (soft piano music) - Consider again that dot. That's home. That's us. On it, everyone you love. Everyone you know. Everyone you ever heard of. Every human being who ever Our planet is a lonely speck in the great enveloping cosmic dark. In our obscurity, in all this vastness, there is no hint that help to save us from ourselves. For the moment, the Earth It underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another and to preserve and the only home we've ever known. (people applauding) (upbeat rock music) - [Narrator] At the end of the encounter at Neptune and Triton a celebration organized by Carl Sagan and the Planetary Society The evening featured a surprise appearance by rock and roll great Chuck Berry. It was a fitting choice as Berry's music was now sailing outward toward the stars aboard Voyager's Golden Record. That was only one of many The Shuttle was flying again. Three months before the Neptune encounter the Shuttle Atlantis had This spacecraft used radar to map the surface of Venus in 3D. It was a natural follow-on JPL had flown on the Five months after Magellan's deployment Galileo was also deployed and Magellan and Galileo were two of only three planetary spacecraft ever carried aloft by the Shuttle. Lew Allen retired in 1991. He used this skit to help say his goodbye, riding off into the sunset with his wife. Allen died in 2010. Ed Stone became the new sheriff in town. Even while serving as he continued on as In 2013, Stone, still the only chief scientist announced that Voyager 1 had the region between the stars. This historic event happened during the watch of Voyager's Suzanne Dodd. All this was still ahead. But on this evening of before Chuck Berry struck Carl Sagan addressed the assembled crowd with words that are as fitting - [Carl] Every human culture They mark the transition from We are gathered here to celebrate Voyager's right of passage. A machine designed, built, has broken free of the Sun's gravity, explored most of the and is now on its way to the great dark ocean The men and women responsible They are heroes of human accomplishment. Their deeds will be remembered Our remote descendants may live on some of the worlds first If so, those descendants as we look on Christopher Columbus. Voyager reminds us of the rarity and preciousness of what our planet holds, of our responsibility to If we are capable of such grand, long-term, benign, visionary, high technology endeavors as Voyager, can we not use our technological gifts and long-term vision to To take care of one another, to cherish the Earth, and bravely, to venture forth to the planets and the stars. (upbeat rock music)