[Ultra Intense Music] So it's been a little while hasn't it? Yes, the Windows 98 PC is back after all this time! [Steve Ballmer] CAN YOU- [Michael] So, why has it been gone? Well... Because I've not really had anything to do a video on with it. i mean that's literally the only reason. Some of you guys have I've seen a couple comments about it and it's any content to make featuring this computer a really awesome viewer donation from Hassan. for sending me this package right here. dedicated viewer donations video as I typically do. in this video because of what we have in here. Because Microsoft operating systems and applications. So you can see why we've got the Windows 98 PC here today. Yes, we're going to be trying to install that French copy of Windows 98 looking up anything. I do not speak French, I don't read or understand French. Now to be completely honest, I don't really think because of how many times I've installed Windows 98. operating system so many times, you generally you just know what's going on, you know what I don't really think it's going to be that Who knows, it's an MJD video, anything can happen. But before we get to installing it, we And we will be taking a look at all the other So again, huge thank you to Hassan for your very generous donation. from across the top here. And yeah you can see over here, I mean, it definitely traveled a long But, let's see if everything inside is intact. Just got to cut that last piece of tape there. And here we go. Okay, so we're just going to take everything That is a lot of Microsoft software. So we'll set that aside. And here we go. So, Hassan mentioned in his email, I looked back We have a copy of Microsoft Flight Simulator, And I believe a few other things. Now a few of these are sealed. Like, I know that the copy So that could be a topic for a future video, who knows? And, like I always say guys, if there's anything here that piques be sure to let me know. But again we're just going to So, that's everything in here. It's just that on its way over here it definitely got damaged. But hey, what can you do? So yeah, here it is: Microsoft Flight Simulator for Windows 95. Brand new, sealed, in the box, or in the package here Super cool. So this will remain And we've also got a copy of Windows NT Workstation. Now I believe- yes, this is Service Pack 4. So right here we have the actual operating Service Pack 4, December of 1998. Yeah, that seal is not broken guys check that out. That is brand new. I mean well, new old stock. I mean it's got some cracks in the jewel case here. But, that is still So this will remain sealed as well. We'll set that aside. I've actually not seen Microsoft packaging So this is the copy of Office 97. Pretty cool and this has been And, we can just take this out So, you've got a lot of documentation here, a lot This right here is your manual- quick start guide of sorts. It gives you a little brief description of each Most of the software is contained on these 2 disks right here. And then you've got Auto Route Express So yeah very cool. We also have right here, this is Microsoft So we'll bring this out here and see what we got. So we've got 5 CDs. And finally the main star of the show! This right here is the French copy of... Window- Wait a second. [beep] Okay so, let's just go through what we have in here. You've got: Encarta World Atlas version 3, Ancient Hey! Creative Writer 2. We've talked about that before in passing on this channel. Pretty cool. Yeah, now we actually have a physical copy of it. So yes, you got a lot of documentation in here. Alright everybody, so that completes the Now I'm sure some of you are wondering &quot;okay, where's the Well to be completely honest, I actually don't know. I looked back at my email thread with Hassan just to verify In fact, he sent over a photo of the jewel Obviously, this is a CD jewel case. So it's not like the I mean we went through everything on So, I honestly don't know if- I mean perhaps Hassan But, whatever the reason is, honestly it doesn't matter. This is completely voluntary. I am really appreciative And this is certainly a really cool package. Like I've never owned French Microsoft software before. And could potentially provide some future content for you guys. So Hassan, I want to thank you once again. But this is actually going to work itself out. Things have a Because we still have a copy of Windows here. And we're going to be installing this on the 98 PC instead. because I have not installed Windows NT Workstation So this could absolutely pose more But let's go ahead and set all of this stuff aside. And as I said guys if Perhaps you want me to unbox this copy of- Well not really unbox, but open up this copy of Microsoft Flight Well, here we are guys. Here's a setup that It honestly feels weird being here Because it's been so long since Now one of the things that I'm curious to find out about Because you may remember if you saw my That I did in early 2020. Even though this was only available in Russia, the entire installation that you would buy here in the States, and it was entirely in English. the Russian didn't take effect until On the other hand though, I did recently install is in the works but has kind of gotten put on the was entirely in Italian. The entire installation If i had to guess, I'm going to suspect that this Yep, it's in French. Yeah, I'm sure all the French speakers in the But like right here, I can tell what all the options are. So Enter is Continue, R is to repair, F1 is for help, and F3 is to quit. We're not a quitter. We're going to press Enter to continue. And right here it looks like it's identified And this is- I think this is it says MS-DOS right there. 1024 cylinders. I think this is probably talking about an MS-DOS partition. Okay, this looks like the license agreement here. So we have to press page down, page And then we press F8. So right there &quot;OEM DESKTOP - FR&quot; for French. The 31st of July, 1996. And I guess that is the file name right And okay, here's our configuration screen. So it tells us- Here we can change the language. But we are not going to do that, because again, that would And... so it's standard PC, that's fine. What is this? Okay this is display. So- this option looks like it's &quot;Automatic Detection&quot; And here is where you want to install it. So we're is down here- well the only option so we're just going So there we go. And we'll press F- or, not F3, Enter to continue. And... Okay, so we're kind of stuck in a bit of a loop here. And because show you here is saying. I'm kind of screwed screen, I know what this is telling you, it's asking you want to utilize. So your options are: &quot;press &quot;C to create the partition&quot; So we're going to just delete the partition here that I've already created. So we'll press &quot;S&quot; to delete. And so now we have non-partitioned space. So we can try to install it on the non-partition Now it doesn't matter what you choose. Which I feel like this happened before one time. I think maybe Because we were able to upgrade it without any But it says- so the the installation program, And then your options are &quot;press Enter to go back&quot; or go back to this screen here. So I'm guessing for We can go here and of course, try to delete this. Maybe it's too large of a partition? So let's just delete it here, and then I can do it on the number pad but not on the- Okay, so let's do just 2000 MB. That was it. That was it. That was the problem. So we just did a 2000 MB partition, so about 2 GB. And that worked! Okay, so now it's formatting the And I did not, I promise, I did not use Google Translate or anything to figure out what that last screen was telling And that is what I'm committed to doing for the entirety of this installation. And right here it's asking you where you want to We're of course going to use the default &quot;WINNT&quot; directory. And right here it's... I don't know exactly what this is saying. What is this saying? Oh probably just the installation program will examine your disk yes. Verifying drive C. The CD starts to spin up and, yep, there it is: &quot;copying files.&quot; Perfect! So really smooth sailing so far guys. I mean, we ran to that We were able to just work past that by Which is great. But everything else, I mean as I anticipated, I Just because I have installed- now of course, I said that I haven't installed But, I have installed other NT based releases When the pre-installation phase began using the Pre-Installation And became graphical as opposed to what we have here. So I knew what to expect going into Once we restart here. So I think- I see this, which I believe means success. So that's good. And i think it's just asking you to remove the disk from the drive. So let's do that, let's eject the drive- or not And we're going to press Enter to restart Yep, that's exactly what it's doing. So this is converting the FAT file system to NTFS. These earlier versions of NT unlike XP for instance, do not format the drive directly to NTFS. It will format it And here's the glorious NT 4.0 boot screen. Yes, this is the boot screen technically. I mean you got the product name, and the version number, SP1. We'll press &quot;OK&quot; And &quot;D:\i386&quot; We just have to wait for it to spin up here. There we go. &quot;Windows NT installation.&quot; I'm guessing it says something like that. We've got our three steps: Now here are your options. So you've got: Let's go with the custom option here. We'll put in our name... Oh yeah, we are definitely not using Because that was me trying to type &quot;Michael&quot; So, yeah. Oh this will be hilarious because I have a QWERTY keyboard. I don't have any other keyboard with a different layout. So if that was an Because this is gonna be hilarious. Is this AZERTY? A-Z-E-R-T-Y This is going to be really interesting because &quot;M&quot; is &quot;,&quot; And if you do- you know, &quot;M&quot; is basically... Oh no, yeah. So this key changes because &quot;SHIFT+M&quot; is &quot;?&quot; &quot;H&quot; is the same &quot;A&quot; is now &quot;Q&quot;, right so those two swap positions. &quot;S&quot; is the same D-F-G-H-I-K-L Okay, so this entire row basically, except for the &quot;A&quot; is the same. I do remember that. I have seen an AZERTY layout before. But i just don't- I mean so it's it's slowly coming back to me here But I mean, I don't have the entire layout memorized Where is &quot;M&quot;? Okay, W-X-C-V-B-N Oh right here, okay, so this is &quot;M&quot;. So M-I &quot;I&quot; is the same, &quot;C&quot; is the same. H &quot;A&quot; is going to be &quot;Q&quot;, &quot;E&quot; is the same, and &quot;L&quot; is the same, okay. We have our product key entered. Is this like for WORKGROUP? Actually, I think it might be for- oh... &quot;ZORK&quot; You know what? We're gonna do &quot;ZORK&quot;. That's what we're gonna do. And this is your Administrator password, This I believe is asking you for a startup disk... Which we're not going to do. And then here's where you get to choose what components And now we get onto the installation, So we'll do that. Looks like it's asking you to connect to a network. So we're just going to change this to &quot;No&quot;. Which I believe is that top option there. And then, here we go. All right, so now it asks you to select your time zone. So we could change this if we want to- we'll just leave it at that. I've seen the same message before.I believe this is So, VGA compatible graphics adapter is what I'm guessing. [Timelapse Music] And there we go guys! We have Isn't that awesome? And of course not just NT 4.0- the French copy of NT 4.0. Oh my gosh, there we go guys. I think actually the last time... Was it the NT upgrade saga? I think it was. I think that's the last time So we're going to press CTRL+ALT+DEL. We've got our Administrator account with There we go! Welcome to Windows NT. And well, there you have it everybody. We have successfully installed Windows NT Certainly wasn't as much of a challenge as some of you perhaps If you did, be sure to give this video a Turn on those notifications if you haven't already to And as always, I want to thank you all so much for