Now, what I want to do is give you some characteristic I'm going to list about nine verbs which describe If these are present in your life more than one, you should begin to check. And bear in mind, all these because we're dealing The first verb, entice. Demons entice. They tempt people to do evil. And if you analyze your experience often comes in a verbal form. A beautiful gold pencil has and something says to you: Take it. Nobody will know. If it was your pencil, they'd take it. Anything that has a voice is a person. Behind that voice None of you have ever Demons harass or harass, depends on They study you, they know your weak moments, they know just how The businessman who's had His secretary was inefficient. On the way home He was an hour on the freeway. believe it or not, and the kids are running And as he gets in through he blows his stack, okay? You know what happens? That demon of anger that's And after that his wife He's still a loving father and husband but there are certain times She notices a kind of He loves his wife and his children. He makes life miserable for them And then he's so ashamed and I don't know what made me do it. Well, we do know. Number three, they torment. Now the Bible speaks about I believe that demons In Matthew 18 in the parable the servant who wouldn't forgive was delivered by God to the tormentors. I have met hundreds of Christians You know why? Unforgiveness. If you have any unforgiveness you are a legitimate And Satan is a legal expert; he There are various forms of torment. There's the example When you look at arthritis, Twisting, torturing, crippling, binding. Mental torment. One that's unusually You'd be surprised how many this battle. It goes like this: Your aunt died in a mental went the same way. Then And you can hardly imagine the Then there is spiritual torment. is the accusation that you have If you are concerned about you haven't committed it. Because are not the least bit concerned. So that's not your problem. Your which is taking away your peace All right, number four. They... Wait a minute. They compel. I think there is no more distinctive Almost anything compulsive Compulsive smoking, compulsive but let's not stop there. Compulsive Gluttony is just as much But it's a respectable one, you see. You can't be an alcoholic in church, There are other forms of compulsion. Garrulity. People who can't And they are a problem too! Number five, demons enslave. Very close. You see, let's say you've committed You repent, you go to Jesus. You receive forgiveness Just as if you'd never sinned. But if after all that you still to commit the same sin again, even One very common Some psychologists and people I just don't even argue about that. But I know there are and hate themselves for doing it. And every time they say They are enslaved. And there is a demon of masturbation. Let me tell you right away: It has certain specific manifestations. What will happen is the person's So many people say: What's the matter And sometimes they go stiff And I just whisper in their ear: Renounce it, claim the cleansing But it's very stubborn. Many times people have to actually in the Name of Jesus, to get rid of it. Now you put four and five together. Four plus five equals addictions. Okay, compulsive, enslaving, you put We're all familiar with Some are very unusual. My first wife a Pentecostal church member, She just wanted to smell nail varnish. She told us: When I walk into the I've got two options. I can either buy When she was delivered if that thing it came out screaming and it tore her. There are other addictions, you know. TV is just as much an addiction They walk into the room They don't know but they just have to reach for it just like an alcoholic And I think probably it does more Number six, they defile. They make you feel dirty and unclean. Especially when you're You're about to get and this dirty image or this filthy Anything that rises up when and opposes you Or when you want to read your Bible. One common example You know, the Bible speaks If they want to read their Bible they're asleep by 10:15. they can stay awake until after midnight. There's a supernatural force there hates them reading their Bibles. Number seven, they deceive. They are the deceivers. I believe basically all forms of And you know what opens I doubt whether there's ever any through the doorway of pride. Number eight, they weaken, make sick or tired. There's a demon of tiredness. A woman once said: I can't stand this session I was about to get sorry for her I challenged it and it said: She's tired when she gets up She's too tired to pray, That's one of the ones Or they kill. Remember Satan is a murderer. And there's a spirit of death that he sends out to Now if we're going to take it would be the word restless. Demonized people are The person who can truly probably doesn't need deliverance. I'd appreciate the ministry who would clean off the board, so that Do we have a volunteer some where