Previously in the RH Saga we encountered the simplest example of an L-function. So what at the heart of mathematics called duality. In linear algebra you have vectors and their mechanics you have bras and kets. In group representations. And in number theory, you have prime numbers explanation: L-functions are the objects that a much more precise definition of what an look at two examples. [Music] The Riemann zeta function can be written as 1 over 3 to the s and so on. Here the sequence so on. A general L-function can be written s plus a3 over 3 to the s and so on, where The numbers in this sequence are called the and today we won't distinguish between the coefficients on the other hand. They contain So here is one example of an L-function. One one zero one two zero zero one one two zero zero zero zero three two zero and so some random numbers, one one zero two two not be an L-function. But this is one of those that happen to be an L-function or the coefficients in this sequence? [Music] Could you for example predict the next entry Here is a more complicated example of an L- zero, two, one, minus one, one, zero, zero, six, minus one, two, zero, minus two, and [Music] These two sequences are examples of motivic constructed from polynomial equations. The from the equation x squared plus one equals K. the second example is the L-function constructed plus y equals x cubed minus x. We'll label &quot;constructed from&quot;, I'm referring to a certain produces a sequence as output. if you want to treat this machine as a black just install Sage for free or go to the type this one line of code: The equation you can sort of see here. Here equation defines something called a number function coefficients of this number field. For the second equation you can use this code: we use the shorthand or label &quot;14.a5&quot;. This curve and we're asking again for the first And you can change this to any number if you The main goal for today is to study these appear from the equations, and find the underlying of what mathematicians call the Langlands Before we jump into the specifics of the two you the LMFDB, the L-functions and modular In the LMFDB you find L-functions and objects curves here, number fields. In the Hall of delta function, and there's a lot more. Let's Here we see this quite famous picture of the the Langlands program. On top we have the independent entities on their own but often from some other object. And these other objects, picture we see the three major classes of representations on the left, and Galois representations to its own L-function. We have two motives already, because any polynomial a motive, that was the equation x squared The motive K has its L-function &quot;L subscript of numbers we just saw. Now the conjecture whenever you have a motivic L-function, so you can find an automorphic object from the If you have a motivic L-function and you manage object exists, then your L-function has what's equation. This in turn means, that it makes for your specific L-function. All of that is a story for next time. Today K and E, and their L-functions. [Music] Ok, let's have a look at our first L-function. The mysterious sequence for this L-function so on. Let's put these numbers in a table. Here we have the index n, one two three four a n so a1 a2 a3 a4 at the bottom. Let's just The first two is here at a5. There is actually are one one zero one two. I want to give a is constructed from the equation x square the equation x squared plus 1 equals 0 is complex numbers. What we do is that we start with the real call i, with the property that i square plus and multiplication you can then generate more is what we call R adjoined i, or with a special Now we can do the same thing again but this with the integers. So we have the integers we think of everything we can generate with set of numbers is written Z adjoined i, there called the Gaussian integers after the mathematician as a two-dimensional plane. The Gaussian integers coefficients. For example 3 plus 2i or 2 minus are Gaussian integers. Definition: the norm a square plus b square. For example, the norm that's 9 plus 4 so that's 13. Let's now compute the norm of a few small care about that now. The norm of one is one. The norm of i is also one. The norm of 1 plus The norm of two is two squared plus 0 squared And we keep going like that. [Music] Now let's count. How many points have norm 1. Well there is one two three four points in can be rotated into another by a 90 degree So these four points they just count as one, by i is the same thing as rotation by 90 degrees. So for norm one there is one point. For norm are no points. For norm four there are two points in the five there are two points. For six there are zero points, same for seven, One one zero one two zero zero if we look This sort of explains how the equation x squared one one zero one two and so on that is the So we have passed from the equation to the Now there are two major challenges. First, it's still not so easy to see how to of the sequence without doing the actual counting Is there a recursion or some kind of rule ones? Second, we got the L-function somehow from Is there a way to get straight to the L-function Look at this. What I do is I write the sequence here on This procedure is a loop where I first subtract I take the first top element and subtract below so one minus nothing is one. Then I distribute copies of one all along In the second column I take the top element One minus one that's zero, and I distribute in jumps of two. Third column I take the top element and I Zero minus one is -1, and I distribute copies in jumps of three and so on. In the fourth the fifth column we get two minus one that's Then zero minus these numbers that's zero, Let's animate this. [Music] Do you see a pattern? Look at the diagonal! one, zero, one, zero, minus one, zero. This is it! This is the pattern. I can now reconstruct the L-function using just by running everything in reverse. So I fill in the diagonal first, then I distribute of subtraction is addition, so I just sum The sum of 1 is 1, the sum of one and zero zero plus zero, is one, one plus one is two Now we did not use the equation K at all, a much simpler object, the diagonal. Now this diagonal is actually an automorphic L-functions in nature, and we have reconstructed automorphic object, together with in some coefficients are just one one one one one The Langlands program. We need one more example. E. The equation was y squared plus x y plus The L-function was one minus one minus two minus four and so on. The machine that takes in the previous example using this counting In this example I'll describe the same machine Now we will count solutions to the equation Whenever you have a polynomial equation with of solutions mod m for any positive integer Let's start with mod 2. And in this example it's faster if we factorize Mod 2 means that x and y can only be 0 and And all computations are done mod 2, so for The right hand side is always zero since either Therefore the left hand side must also be That happens either if y is zero, the first Otherwise if y is one, the bracket must be All in all mod 2 there are three solutions. When y is zero x can be anything, and when 3, is what we wanted to find. That was mod 2. Now let's count solutions mod 3. x and y will be zero, one or two. And all computations are done mod 3. The right hand side is the product of three be zero when we work mod 3. And hence the entire product is zero, that's must again also be zero. Now either y is zero and x can be anything be zero, which means x is one. Finally y can be two, again the bracket must All in all there are let's see, five different The next prime would be five, and the counting If we do the work there will be five solutions with Sage. [Music] Now, we need a large table. Top row, labeled n, is just one two three In the next row, labeled p, I've put the primes Under these primes I'll write the solution solutions. Mod 3 there were five. Those we six eleven and seventeen. I'll just label this row with &quot;SOL&quot; for Solutions. The goal is to construct the L-function from steps. First for the primes we just subtract the minus 3 is -1, 3 minus 5 is -2, 5 minus 5 The last one is 13 minus 17, and that's -4. For any equation there may be certain primes and for this equation E, I can compute that computation is straightforward, I'm not showing Step two, for the table, is to do the powers of five, so the prime powers. For the powers of 2, 2 is a bad prime, and for the prime powers should be a geometric then minus one, then one again, and then minus 1 and -1 for all powers of 2. For powers of three, three is a good prime, but there is a recursion for the values at down to taking minus 2 squared, that's four, me 1 for the value at nine. Step three, for the remaining values of n number six, six is two times three, so to times -2, that gives me a 2. For 10, ten is 0, and that is zero. And finally if I decompose need to take -2 times 1, and that gives me And now we have constructed the L-function numbers. And this procedure is close to the general prime powers then, all the other numbers. Okay we computed the L-function from the equation. But again, we have the same two major challenges First, is there a rule of some kind, that and second, we got the L-function from the the L-function without using the equation. We need coins. [Music] Here I have red coins, denominations one two The rule is unlimited supply of each type. Blue coins 2 4 6 8 10 12 and so on. Let's say this is dollars, two dollars, four Yellow coins 7 14 21 28, and green coins in Okay say I want to pay you one dollar. In a red one dollar coin. Say I want to pay you two dollars. In how you two of these, or one of these, or one All in all three different ways. How about three dollars? Let's see I could one, or I could use these three, or I could ways. [Music] Let's put all of these combination counts Actually we'll start from zero dollars, and is to not give you any coins at all. One dollar one way, two dollars three ways, 32, 55, (that's a Fibonacci number), 76, 122 Now you know the usual multiplication table, here and up here. 4 times 3 equals 12 and Maybe you say this is boring, but look at 20, and maybe it's an interesting exercise for now. Let's construct a new, more exciting, multiplication First, one side consists of these coin combination three and so on. Second rule, the diagonal sums should be the The first diagonal sum should be one, so I top, since 1 times 1 is 1. Now I get 1 times 1 is 1, 1 times 3 is 3, Now the second diagonal sum should be zero. That means I need a minus one here, and that I can fill out the second column, minus 1 The next diagonal sum is zero again, so I top, and I can again fill out the rest of Next number has to be one, that gives me a [Music] Look at the top row. 1, -1, -2, 1, 0, 2, 1, We have used the coins to construct the L this process, is that we constructed the L in any way whatsoever. Now maybe you say that this coin counting already for twenty dollars, the number of But, it is possible to rephrase this coin and with that toolbox, it's very easy to compute For those of you who know about generating L-function, can be written as the product minus q to the two n, times 1 minus q to the you you recognize the numbers 1, 2, 7 and So, to summarize, we had an L-function coming it also by a completely different method. In fact this generating series is an automorphic and it gives you the same L-function as the of an elliptic curve. [Music] I want to zoom out, and say something about The Langlands program today, consists of a but the original main branch, which is directly Langlands over number fields, and this main One theme is functorality and we'll get back reciprocity. Reciprocity expresses the idea, that any motivic with the same L-function. The objects on both sides of the correspondence, or degree, depending on the context. And Langlands reciprocity is a statement about on. The correspondence between elliptic curves of Fermat's Last Theorem, is part of Langlands we wanted to convey with our second example, includes something called Artin reciprocity, is quadratic reciprocity, that Gauss discovered. I think, eight different proofs. Now our first example today, K, is a special reciprocity, so in some sense, it is the simplest Langlands reciprocity. If you want to read something very accessible this absolutely beautiful book by Edward Frenkel In the table of contents, you see all kinds theory&quot;, and at the end, &quot;searching for the There is one thing I'd like to show on page is similar to the one we worked with today, similar to the one we obtained from the coin Finally, imagine that you know that you'll can only bring one person. And suppose you or anything like that, you just want to learn before you starve to death. Then the right person to bring along, is Matthew of Chicago, and click papers and preprints, reciprocity there, if you want a much more subject. Here is the abstract, and you see almost all laws, L-functions, relating arbitrary motivic so on. So many of the words we used today are rigorously [Music]