If you're just getting started, For the first two years, we've got believed that this was possible. You know what nerds are working on are what will be the giant companies You have to go work You also have to kind of have thick skin that you're stupid. My name is Keller. I started zipline Zipline serves about 4000 hospitals We deliver blood transfusions, vaccines. At this point, we're signing care systems or huge e-commerce Today, zipline is the largest commercial We just crossed our millionth commercial As a kid growing up in Phoenix, Arizona, I loved reading science fiction, that was really hopeful about the future. As I grew up, I kind of started the future only gets better if we make it. So, like my grandparents humans on the moon, they could also fly We don't have either In some ways, technology moves backwards talented teams of engineers working on a and make it globally available. My name is Keenan Wyrobek and I'm Anytime we've been able to make something it and like it made their life better. Like I got that bug The thing I'm known for before zipline Ros Robot Operating system. It started as a PhD project to create Ros is everywhere. Pretty much every robotics company So I spent seven years on Ros and that's It seemed obvious to us there was technology in academic labs. But to us, the thing that was more to build the apple of robotics, not making its way out of the research Robots really like boring problems. You want repetitive, You just do the same thing It's sort of like running water It's not necessarily the most exciting if it wasn't working. We felt there was just so much promise ten times faster and half the cost, that We keep hearing about health campaigns causes it to get stuck or to fail. We visit a country and we're We see, you know, Someone pulled us aside and said, I think there were One was meeting this researcher using cell phones. They had given cell phones to all these and they'd ask to text in when they had and they didn't have the medical product For pages and pages of the spreadsheet death outcome, death outcome, death. And you look at the missing supplies. And these are all things they have in And I remember thinking So like, what do you do And he was like, nothing. In those early days, We all could have had you know, like we didn't pay ourselves Ryan was being recruited companies that you've heard of. And he decided to instead move to Las Keenan had dropped out I think we all were sort of united by getting to build something totally new Maybe psychologically, we like that We thought it would be fun The challenge is that slammed in our face like nobody believed We ended up talking to the Ministry nerds, we're going to use these aircraft and health facility in the country, And she looked at me, you know, Keller, shut up, just do blood. And she told me this story her life in childbirth, and she went for like 18 hours and they And then we just happened to be lucky talking about zipline, And I think she connected it in her mind probably crazy and there's probably not But if this is a potential solution, And so it was like that one little opening commercial contract that zipline ever blood to 21 different hospitals in Rwanda. We were talking on like pencil sketch of the concept. That's it. Most people think drone. They think something with rotors like this we call platform one. It looks like a large RC plane. But because we went deep we knew they cared about two things. They cared about range. And if you're going to do those two It cannot be a drone. At the time, every investor we had, why are we doing a fixed wing aircraft? Why are we doing an airplane? And we said, well, what they want, and this is the only way If we make the other thing we will fail for our customers. I still remember the look on one to a health clinic and took it and threw and made such a loud whack that you They're like, nope, And then of course, we went from that That comes down slowly enough that From folks like me who come from robotics, are not like us. If people think are robot, you failed. And especially in healthcare, our to deliver to their tech savvy patients. They want us to deliver Right. And so I always think of it If my grandmother would be okay with it, To be clear, she won't be. So it's a very interesting bar engineering But once you've got it and all of a sudden it, you know, you're on to something. I definitely remember this one moment. We were still delivering remember getting woken up at about 2 a.m.. Keller, we have a problem. You know, it's not And so I said, what happened? And she said, well, we delivered into this inaccessible place on the roof. And I thought, oh my God. I mean, clearly something had gone like we had missed by like 50ft or more hey, I think we fixed the problem. And I said, oh, by the way, Is it still up there on the roof? Like the technician went and got a ladder and got the blood and they transfused And I remember hearing that Like this is an example where we screwed You know, like it made me realize that, your customer will meet you halfway. Today, zipline is the largest commercial We just crossed our millionth commercial but we actually have customers doing a million deliveries a day for them, like the United States and Japan. Demand has just grown exponentially. And at this point, we're signing new whether they be huge health care systems focused on building the capacity that will a technology and an operations perspective I saw a flag in a gymnasium of a school we do this not because it is easy, but It's so perfectly describes You know, we were like, That'll be easy. And then, you know, once you were then then you actually have to you realize and you have to solve those problems. That's the reason, probably, required to start a startup like zipline. People often joke that hardware is hard. We have to be really good We have to be really good We have to be good at software. Then we have to be really good at success and sales really being good across That's the thing that makes it so hard But the flip side of that is that we think to 10 years, we're pretty confident that that are going to be created I mean, you look at Apple or you or you look at SpaceX like these companies because it is hard. Venture capitalists And they and they want to build ideas And that can just grow super fast And I think this leads to a lot like scaling data infrastructure, I mean, I think if we were to open our questions of like, what would it take to that we'll be proud to hand to our kids? What are the important problems for 8 billion humans who live on Earth? There are a lot of these problems real products in the real world. I don't think people should be I think it's hard to build these kinds the ones that are going to move humanity There are a few key things. It's really important to fall in love with a technology or a solution. Because the reality is, if you're Like, we didn't understand all the nuances to be required in a solution to really What was really important is trying to, like, sell services And we learned by doing and we learned under test circumstances and even crashing You know, we crashed a lot before we yourself to engage with the real world, as fast as possible, see if you can You know what nerds are working on Today are what will be the giant companies If you pick something that's obvious if it's obvious, it's well understood, with $1 billion of capital We needed to pick something that was that we could go become experts in that. Well, before anybody else was paying I think you have to have that foresight. You have to go work on something that's treated like you're a weirdo, too, why are you wasting your time on this? This is stupid. You also have to kind of have thick skin that you're stupid for years what you're working on is, is worthwhile. That's my advice.