and I've been in education for 10 years. I've hit rock bottom because it's exhausting. I cut hair at home. I have cleaned houses. You know, the kids joke with the teachers in Oklahoma you almost have to. This is Kily and Angela. Both are teachers at public schools in Oklahoma Both are single mothers with three kids. And, like thousands of teachers across Oklahoma, This is how much money I have in the bank. 53 cents. I have a cut off notice. I have a past due phone and cable bill too. This kind of lifestyle is shockingly common And in 2018, they finally reached a breaking We love children and we love to teach. It's ingrained in us. It's what we do. It's who we are. And we're not being compensated for it. And we're not gonna be able to do it anymore. Oklahoma teachers are the lowest paid in the salary of about $42,000. You could work at a gas station and make more. This came in the mail and it's terrifying. And it is foreclosure paperwork on my house. I corresponded with Kily and Angela every two highly educated people with full-time I make $42,600 a year, and that's supporting it anymore. I'm currently one car payment behind two Last year at our school we had food pantry. We were sending as much home with the teachers I wanted to know why thousands of teachers So I asked Kily and Angela to show me what actually looks like. A government program called WIC helps Kily But it's usually not enough, and she often her kids. We got these boxes. They sent food home with the children and So I've got about a month's worth of Saturday Angela's life is not too different. Despite the fact that she's been teaching $42,000 before taxes. To fill in the financial gap, she drives the quilts, and drives for Lyft. Her day usually begins around 5 am. I am walking out the door at 5:35. Yay, I'm going to be on time actually. Today, Angela's going to Walmart before her classroom. Oh that's cute. This will get us our butterflies and flowers. Now I have to grab some snacks because they It's pretty much common knowledge that teachers class supplies. And it's not chump change. A 2016 report showed that teachers across supplies, and that 10% of teachers spend more That was an expensive trip. $45.64 that I just spent on my classroom in Teachers do get a small tax deduction for get close to what many are spending. $250. That's all I can claim. I don't know any teachers that only expense-- trying to say. This is perhaps even more necessary for teachers in per-student spending. Education funding has dwindled over the years, repeatedly slashed taxes for businesses and The latest round of budget cuts was so massive, to a four-day week. Our district has embraced the four-day week. Last year we were able to save $180,000. This isn't the state's only embarrassment. Oklahoma also has a significant teacher shortage, in other states. In one survey, educators who left said they they did in Oklahoma. Even the state's 2016 Teacher of the Year I don't know what it's gonna take for have a serious, serious issue. We haven't had a pay raise in 10 years, and So imagine going into the career that you paid a dollar more than what you got paid Would you continue to do it? In a scramble to make up for the shortage, teachers, or 'Emergency Certs'. This issue has exploded in the last few years, certifications issued since 2014. I have an aunt that was here this weekend She's like, 'Kily I just got my first in Oklahoma. You don't have to martyr yourself. But if we all leave then who's here for these More Emergency Certs? I don't want to leave these children with I do. I don't want to leave these kids 'cause I don't want to leave these kids 'cause At this point, Kily is not only counting down she's counting down the money left in her I've made my budget for the rest of the $40 for a full tank of gas, $3 to $5 for grad school Kily just sold some extra stuff, and after spending money until payday. Over the next few days, Kily does everything So this is what we do to make our own soap This mayonnaise with one tablespoon a piece months to come. So this is me digging through change in the At 7-Eleven. A teacher went in and is buying me a soda Hopefully tonight for dinner my grandparents my cohort members at grad school will bring A day before payday, Kily is literally down That's how much money I have until tomorrow--payday. Wow. I'm pushing for you guys. Thank you. Y'all deserve it for sure. I appreciate that more than anything. Should'a been a long time ago. Yup. At this point, the walkout is just a few days The story is dominating the news and everybody Angela: Do you guys think we should continue We should pay em, 'cause our teachers deserve Angela: So do you think the teachers walking Oh yeah. If the teachers compromise, it's not gonna Angela: 'Cause we don't have enough-- Angela: Yes. In a last ditch effort to avoid a strike, on cigarettes and gas, giving teachers a $6,000 This was far from the $10,000 raise that educators state lawmakers haven't increased taxes You can't call it a raise when it's not a It's not a raise. If you do the math, it would take $6,000 tomorrow just for inflation. So how do you feel now that the walkout is I've been waiting on this like this. It excites me but it's scary. I think the general public sees it as the No we're not being greedy. We want to continue to be able to do what And if we don't get this we can't keep doing I can't keep doing it. I don't want [intercom] sorry... I am so broken right now by the way things So I'm hopeful that they change so that I don't change I will. What has kept you doing this for almost 30 Why are you still teaching and doing all of I don't know anything else. This is my life. I love seeing that I really can make a difference I taught high school for a long time. I had a group of boys. No other teacher could handle them in class. They were Seniors, they were done. They didn't want to be there, but I worked got them graduated. And when I see that all of them, who could a nurse, a couple of them are working oil and they're contributing to society. Knowing that I played a role, it's like OK, It's just what I'm supposed to be doing. I don't want to leave. I wouldn't be happy. I've had jobs where I made really good money. I owned my own hair salon before I got a teaching I've been a financial adviser. I've had money, but that didn't- that didn't But when you put me in a position where I I have to do something and I have to make I'm slobbering all over myself. I'm flustered I don't want to leave. This is the singular defining moment for generations. We're all in this together. We have to change. It is the day of the walkout. We're about halfway to the Capitol. We're about to pass the Governor's mansion. The Governor's mansion is up to our right! Say hi to Mary! Hi Mary! What up Mary! Give us money Mary! The first week of the walkout was, by many Tens of thousands of teachers and supporters to capacity every day. This is the line to get in. Oh holy holy look at all those people. I'm a sub for 18 years. I have high schoolers making more than me But as the week went on, more and more teachers their promise to pay teachers during the strike. One of these districts was Angela's. I am headed to school, and I feel like a complete However, I can't afford to lose a day's So I am going in against everything in me. We were told if we go march again, it will We cannot use leave because we wouldn't And this is not an emergency because it was So our district is the only one in central Even with some teachers returning to class, And Kily spent her days at the capitol. Being on the highway and seeing the signs Feel like for the first time the public, like, Unfortunately, not everyone was so supportive. Teachers want more, but it's kinda like They come into this house and wanna act this I'm not voting for another stinkin' measure I do not believe that I should have to pay my taxes to go to school or give you a raise Okay so it's day 5 of the walkout. We got an email saying that we needed to put So I may have lost like $250, $275 today. Doesn't matter I'm still here at the protest. I've got the phone plugged in here in the car... At this point, the walkout is phasing out, not at school. This is the thinnest crowd that I have seen What day are we on? Day 7? I'm supposed to be at work right now. But I went and signed in and signed out and I teach students and teachers and neither supposed to do all day? Oh wow. This is sad. I mean there's still a crowd but not anything I'm mad enough I had to get this on camera. Look. On day 10, the head of Oklahoma's largest Senate Republicans won't budge an inch on She doesn't speak for all of us. Two more days. We need two more days. We are going back to school Monday, April I guess it really is over, because I can't Kily did go back for one more day. But on Tuesday April 17th, she finally returned The vibe here is stressed. I've had two people come to me and say, I won't be here next year. I've accepted a job somewhere else.' It's just really sad. Everybody's sad. I don't know whether to stay and fight and or to try to leave and do better for my family. Even though the walkout effectively ended, with a group of other teachers. I caught up with Angela to see how she was I was just so sad that this is what it came And I felt almost disrespected by the comments of the legislators and stuff. All year long, we supported you. And now you're gonna come here and act like Go right ahead, be pissed at me if you want to. This is the thing that really left me scratching There seems to be overwhelming support across Yet, voters are electing representatives who I asked a couple of former candidates for behind this disconnect. There are a lot of single-issue voters out I was out knocking doors. So I would, I would introduce myself - 'I'm and I think what's happening in public education I was shocked at how often the conversation Like, that was it. Like people were making their decisions based If you're a teacher and you're pretty Evangelical, being told you can't vote for a Democrat because the standard, they're going to let transgender Like these are the kind of scare tactics that When I was campaigning this is the stuff that You know, I'd knock on a door and be like, What are you concerned about? Oh I'm concerned about the bathroom issue, Because they don't have teachers or books.' Have you ever voted for someone who isn't Yeah, I have. I have. And ones that I probably should have looked my own investigation has been my-- Yeah I I mean that's really my next step is to be process. How did you feel having to give up after so I was hurt. I was angry. I cried. I felt like we'd lost. I feel like in November there's going to be I feel like we're gonna clear house and they're I don't think they realize how far and wide Like I still see it. Like I still see it worldwide. I don't think they realize that this really is