Kazari Project Now at Gifu Base! Welcome! Nice to meet you, I am Kazari. My name is Yaginuma and I am in charge of public relations! Best regards! What kind of base is this, Gifu base? The base in Gifu is home to a unit that handles aircraft parts, an anti-aircraft unit, and the Flight Development and Test Wing, the only unit in the Air Self-Defense Force responsible for testing aviation equipment! It's called the Flight Development Experimental Group...!! These three are the larger units. It is also the &quot;oldest airfield in Japan&quot; and has a rich history as an airfield. Have the oldest airfield...! I'm looking forward to it! I hope that you have seen enough airplanes today to enjoy them! What will you be doing for me? Today you will have the opportunity to experience the &quot;F-15&quot; cab! Before boarding, I will give you a pre-briefing on the cabin safety and the sequence of events. Wow..! It's a briefing..! Best regards. Today, as you can see here, an aircraft called F-15. It's called a small aircraft, but it's a fighter! Is the F-15 a small aircraft? Large planes like the C-2 are called large planes, while others are called small planes, and fighter planes are also called small planes! When I heard that it was a small aircraft, I thought it was a T-4 or T-7 or something like that.lol This time I will ride in a luxurious F-15, so please commemorate me! Thank you very much..! (impressed) I am looking forward to it! The F-15 is basically a one-seater (single-seater) fighter, but today we have a two-seater (double-seater) F-15! You will ride in the back seat! This will be an experience cab, so we will turn the engine on to full once and you will experience the acceleration called afterburner and return. You will experience a series of flows! ~Detailed briefing underway~! We have been thoroughly briefed! After the briefing... Are you going to let me put something on now that you are going to be a trial cab? Yes, I will! I will put on these three items! Oh! It says &quot;Experience Boarding Kazari Mr.&quot;..! Thank you very much! Buttoning up... Tightening the zipper! Buttons and zippers on the legs as well!. Tightening the zipper. Like this... Opposite leg please. I'll close the back as well. Looks like it's heavy. It's quite heavy, so be careful... lol Heavy. loool Closes until it clicks. Closes also the belly part. Finally, the bottom also please! The string coming out of her butt, like she's sitting on a swing... lol! Like sitting on a swing? From the front? lol Through the belt from the bottom... (I can't see anything (with the equipment), lol was properly installed!) There is a little more to attach! Kazari-san is a little full of wounds at the stage of putting on her equipment. Pull down as far as you can. Oooooooh! This is tough..! Harness fitting OK! See you soon! It looks like this! Pilots always wear equipment like this! It's so tight. lol Since this is not a flight, I have fitted it lightly, but it would normally be tightened like that.lol Finally, there's the helmet...! Please match the face ... Close with a click! Going to apply pressure now, so air is coming out! Oooh... ah! lol What is this doing? We are checking for oxygen leaks. A beeping sound is heard. Please speak and see if you can hear it. It's okay! Amazing..! Thank you very much! Now it's time to go to the F-15. Preparation completed! (FOD measures also taken) I'm so excited..! My back is stiffening. I'm done preparing, let's go! Let me show you around. The speed is roughly 130 to 140 km/h! 130-140! It's not that fast, so you can feel the acceleration! Enjoy! F-15. Cool..! Salute! Please! Fix! This will be the F-15 I described earlier. Please follow me as I go around and briefly explain! Please follow me! Wow. It's an F-15! I've never seen it this close before! I am very happy. It's a large fighter plane, a very large one! Compared to its neighbor (F-2), this one is still bigger. I see! Since it is a fighter, it can carry a variety of weapons. Here it is...the F-15's 900-round machine gun! It can carry 900 rounds of 20mm, or 2cm diameter ammunition. 100 rounds per second. 100 rounds per second! If you keep shooting, in nine seconds... It's gone. lol It's a thing where you aim and shoot, so you only have a second or two actually... you only shoot a little bit at a time. It's more like aiming and shooting than shooting and aiming all the time! I was under the impression that a machine gun would keep on shooting! I was playing Ace Combat, so lol. Oh lol. I can't load (bullets) so... lol This is the fuel tank! Touching the fuel tank...(pervert) I think it sounds like a lot of fuel when you tap it! It's full of fuel, so the sound is heavy or The sound is definitely heavy... it feels choppy This is called a missile launcher, and this is where the missiles are loaded So, when you actually load the missiles here, the missiles are launched from this rail with a bang. What do you mean sha...? Sha... Let's go around... This is the back side of the engine. Please get on the stepladder and watch from behind) Please be careful Please be careful with your hands, sir, because you can easily lose control of your hands. I'll be careful..! I've never seen an engine this close up before..! This is always doing the afterburners..! Wow~. Eh, I'm excited! lol! I can see it's quite large compared to my body. Here's the hole for dumping fuel. The other side has the same thing, so that if the fuel is too heavy for the landing, you can let it out from here. With a whoosh. The greenish lid on top is called an aerial refueling hole. When the aircraft is refueled in the air, the door opens and a stick-like object from an aerial refueling aircraft is inserted to refuel the aircraft. So that's where they refuel in the air. Unlike a regular F-15, it has two seats. Basically, the F-15 is a one-seater, but it is a two-seater fighter for educational and various other purposes. I'm excited because I've never seen a two-seater F-15 before. Have fun today! Now that we are ready, let's get on board! Please! Let's take a ride on the F-15! Let's take a ride! Wow~! Amazing! Pretty high..! Climbing into the back seat. Get in through the right foot! All I'm saying is wow.lol Receive helmet and put it on. Standing in the foreground is a female maintenance worker. Cool. Hand sign for pilot and mechanic to mutually fold their arms. The JFS has started with a signal from the maintenance crew. JFS(Jet Fuel starter) As a geek, I can't get enough of this startup sound! The sound has changed! The engine gradually starts up. Pilot and maintenance crew are communicating and checking. Good luck! and the sound of cheering... Am I the only one who thinks so? lol Wooooo...! (shouts out in my mind) Thank you for waiting. Please note the intake. I can't get enough of this moment!! JFS slows down when engine speed reaches idle. Next, it is Left Engine's turn to do his best. During the inspection process, I also have the voices of the mechanic and pilot inside my hot mic. After inspecting the legs, the flight tugs are removed. More details later in the video... Here it comes too! I never get tired of this sound no matter how many times I hear it. I can eat 3 cups of white rice lol There are a lot of instruments moving in front of me, but I can't show them to you. Sorry. Now next, look at the left intake! Phew. I can't get enough of it! After the pilot checks the surroundings, the canopy closes. Kazari, who still seems to have plenty of time to spare.lol Check horizontal tail fin. I can't find the right moment to speak because the pilot is talking during the inspection process.lol Outside, engine controls are being checked! Spread out and pinched...so cute! (?) This is a very precious image as you can't usually see it from this angle. And my guess! Listen to the sound after this... The best! Now we will be ready shortly. *Please enjoy the in-flight audio from here on out. Are you having trouble breathing? I'm breathing a little bit harder. Is this true? Is this the rougher one?lol I'm &quot;sorry&quot; for the sound of my breath. Press me on the left... Yay! Then I'm going to press... Uh-ooooh! G-suite****Prevents ischemia of the brain by constricting the lower body. The suit itself is constructed like a pair of pants and is connected to a connector in the cockpit with a hose. When excessive G forces are applied to the pilot, compressed air is automatically pumped into the suit to compress the lower body and reduce blood loss. If you press the button for about 3 seconds, it will usually bulge out when G (gravity) is applied. What is G? For convenience, when considering the magnitude of acceleration as 1G (1 gee), we call it 2G if it is twice as large, and 0.5G if it is half as large. When you press a button for about 3 seconds, it will be roughly the same size as when G (gravity) is applied, and so on. It was an awesome outfit..! You can always push me if you want. Thank you.loool Maintenance: remove intercom. Yes. Maintenance: last chance apron. Maintenance: thank you very much go ahead! Great! They say, &quot;Have a great day!&quot; Yes, they do! Amazing..! (I'm kind of impressed with the Kazari) Is the seat position ok? I think it was probably at the top. Yes, it's okay. Can you see it clearly? Yes, I can see well! I can see well! I'm going to move it forward a little bit. Ahh, I'm a little forward. The inspection is proceeding handily. A shimmer from the engine. Something about the timing of the speech... awww. You can speak at any time you like! lol Really? Thank you! I was in the middle of checking so I don't know when to speak!!lol I've calmed down a lot, so I'm fine! You can tell me what you want to ask, or whatever you want to ask, as you go along. It definitely feels spacious! It feels bigger inside. That blue fighter on the right next to it is so much smaller. F2 F2 It's so narrow. I guess the inside space varies from aircraft to aircraft. The stepladder is being removed. It signals that the safety pin has been removed by the maintenance staff. It looks kind of like a crab. Pounding... Amazing! Other aircraft! (They are coming back) I think I'm going to leave about the time this settles down! Yes, I will! I'm going to leave now! You can see the F-2 coming back behind us! Okay, I'll get out! Yes, I'm out! Please! I'm nervous..! Okay, I'll get it! Please...! I'm off! Kazari waves to everyone. The maintenance man saluting the aircraft is cool. I'm off! The sky is so beautiful (carefree) Wave to them! Oh, wow! It turns quite smoothly, doesn't it? Yes, it does! I've never been in a fighter plane, so I don't know how maneuverable these things are.lol I don't understand.lol Would you like to touch the control stick? Eh! Really? (Are you sure?) What? Wow, wow..! It's moving a little bit if you look to the right or something as you move it. Oh, it's true! It's moving! The great wing is moving! I'm so happy..! I was always in a position to watch them take off at air festivals, so I wondered what it was like to be on the takeoff side...! Impressive. You tried that mask you were talking about earlier, the one with the amazing oxygen coming in, right? I was like, wtf?lol This right-left, when you're running, the maneuvering is done with your feet. Rudder! If you put the hand down already, but do it to the right, like this. If you do it to the left, it looks like this. It's meandering so much! Eh, wow!&quot; Does that mean you're in a hands-off state right now? It's true! Amazing! Usually, before entering this runway, I go into an area that is a bit swollen, and the maintenance crew is always here to do a final check before takeoff. When loaded with missiles, the maintenance crew turns on the final switch to make the missile ready to fire. I see! I see you have a maintenance person here as well. Basically here, not here today, lol. What is Last Chance? There is this bulging ... tarmac-like area on the runway! Well, can I come in? Yes, please. No, I'm nervous. Okay, I'm going in. Wow..! Wow, wow! I've never seen a runway like this. Okay then? Please! Ah! Huh! Uh-oh! Gwah! Ugh! Haaaaaaaaa. Waaaaaaaaa! I can't stop laughing.lol loool *It's already slowing down. Well, maybe another 3 seconds or so and then it would have taken off. I see!lol Hold it down a little bit before you do that. The feeling of a roller coaster fall. ... It was like feeling that on the ground somehow..! That was just before takeoff, wasn't it? That's about three seconds to go. Ehhh! lol That's amazing ah..! It felt like my butt was pressed against the seat. I don't know, it felt like, I don't know, I just wanted to fly when I got here. I feel awesome and weird too.lol I accelerated but it didn't fly! Suddenly it feels like I'm braking a little bit. I'm going to talk to the air traffic control for a minute. Okay, I'm going back! Yes! Please! I wanted to fly already..! lol I really hope you take the proper test and fly next time.lol This apartment on the left. Please wave to him. It's true! Wow!! Everyone's waving, everyone's waving, everyone's waving. People in that area, they're always shaking! lol Glad to hear that..! But you'll never know I'm on board. lol loool Apartments near the base, good because you can do that sort of thing ...lol I thought this is what it's like to be on the riding side at an air festival. It's like this! lol When I actually got on the aircraft, I felt that runways are very short. Yes, it is! (It's so fast!) It seems so much bigger when you look at it as a base... Yes, it's a moment - it's a moment! You'll have to ride this one to find out. Come and get it so you can fly! LOL! I want to fly! If I could fly, it would be an amazing world because it's a fighter plane and there would be G's and stuff. Can I go on a roller coaster even if I don't like roller coasters? Is it okay at all? Thank you also for the F-15 that carried the Kazari...(tears) I'm back. Noshi. I was so nervous, but I was so impressed... F-15 with Kazari on board returns. Brave from all angles. Back on the apron! The canopy opens! Water~! The pilot is hand-signing. No1.2 engine cut sign says. They get out of the fuselage. Watch your head... and don't let up on the final descent. Have ho. It was fun...!! Almost flew away. lol I wanted it to fly as much as possible. lol After the flight. The fuel trailer is standing by the aircraft as it comes down! Preparations for re-launch begin immediately. Fueling the aircraft. Maintenance after disembarkation is also very important. Glad to see them refueling up close. Refueling from the trailer, just like a moving gas station. Moving the hoses as soon as they are done refueling. The movement is lean and shows a high level of organization. It was an opportunity to see again how many people are involved in the movement of just one aircraft. And what a surprise, we also heard from the maintenance crew. I just got off the plane and I'd like to ask the maintenance man a lot of questions about **** the aircraft! Best regards! I'd like to ask a lot of questions, but first... Why is this area covered? Loosen the rudome lock bolt. The antenna cover, which is what the tag is attached to, is attached in a conspicuous way so that when you fly the aircraft, you don't forget to remove it! So &quot;REMOVE BEFORE FLIGHT&quot;! It means &quot;REMOVE BEFORE FLIGHT.&quot;! I have this keychain. lol Ahhh! You (sell it) a lot! What is this one? Pitot tube: Attached to the tip of the wing or fuselage of an airplane, it is mainly used to measure the speed of the airplane based on the difference between stagnation pressure and atmospheric pressure. The pitot tube is a sensor that measures atmospheric pressure, but if it gets clogged with dust, etc., or if the shape of the circle changes due to a bump, it will not perform well, so it is protected by a cover. I see the pitot tube has a cover. It has a REMOVE BEFORE FLIGHT. What is this one? The nose gear... When this is removed, the gear is ready to retract. Normally, a safety pin is inserted in this manner to prevent the gear (wheel) from accidentally retracting. Remove before flight! So this one is also prominently red. So if this comes off, it can be stored. The letters NOSE GEAR! So basically everything that can be stored has a pin on it. That's right! It's on the places where it's dangerous to operate. Ah! The wheel stops! I love wheel stops. lol What is this? It's an inspection hole panel! When the engine is running and oil pressure etc. is applied, the gauges here move. The mechanic checks it and closes the panel after confirming it! I see..! What is this? It's a hook. When the brake fails, the hook comes down, hooks onto a wire on the ground, and stops. Is this one the same one? It's called grounding, and since we have a lot of electronics on board, I channel static electricity to the ground to keep them from malfunctioning. Here's something from a refrigerator or microwave oven. Here's something called the &quot;danger zone&quot; Danger zone? Flames come out from here when starting the engine. lol Oh oh oh!?lol It's in the form of a tiny engine attached and turning the main engine. So basically, do fighter planes have a danger zone? Almost every aircraft has a danger zone. I had no idea...!! I see you have a flame. I thought it was just afterburners. lol Thank you for all the information! Finally..! I had a very special experience! What a surprise I am! I am on the wing! Have ho. Don't step here either! I'm on the back of an F-15...!! I'm going to have him step over here... Yes! I'll step over..! You can ride on the wings of the F-15...! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the back of the F-15! The back of an F-15 is very wide..! It's about the size of two tennis courts. lol It's about the size of two tennis courts!? There are about 34 tatami mats. Amazing! This is not easy to..! A sight not to be seen. lol Since we're here, let's take a selfie... Hey everyone! How did you like this video? I hope you are interested in the Air Self-Defense Force. I had a valuable experience and I was really moved by it! See you again in the next video! Extra This is the most advanced aircraft at Gifu Air Base. This aircraft has a permit to operate in the airfield area. So basically it can operate in the apron district. I have permission from the FOD. I can run to the other side of the red line there, but this time we will run inside the red line. Now let's go! Preview of the next installment