(lighthearted guitar music) (audience clapping) - Thank you, it's a honor to introduce Professor Yuval Harari. Dr. Harari is a lecturer at at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He received his PhD from the He is a best-selling author, he was the author of &quot;of Humankind&quot;, that was number one in The New York Times Best Seller and just recently, appearing &quot;of Tomorrow&quot;. He's won numerous awards including twice the Polonsky Prize for creativity and 2012 and numerous other Oftentimes, when we we imagine them focusing some particular era, some 20 years, some particular author, something of that sort. My apologies to historians in the audience who I may have insulted, but this is sort of our stereotype. But Professor Harari of that sort of narrow perspective. He has demonstrated a remarkable capacity to ask really, really big questions and to contextualize them He asks questions such as, how do we get from being that he compares to than jellyfish or as 70,000 years ago, to dominating the globe the What are the stages that And how can we understand those stages? Are we happier today And remarkably and curiously And one of the most is what makes humans special? What distinguishes humans that are out there? And his answer, for at is relatively straightforward. He argues that humans are able to evidence flexible Yes, other animals can cooperate, chimpanzees can cooperate, but not in large scales though, but certainly not in that humans are. Bees can operate in large scale, but not flexibly. What distinguishes to be both able to operate and to operate cooperatively and flexibly. And then he asks the how do we do it? How are we capable of manifesting this remarkable flexibility And here his answer is really very timely, especially in this time of fake news and alternative facts, things that we are the sort of, how can people believe these things? How can this be possible? And his conclusion is that, in fact, our capacity to believe in such things is actually part of what That ultimately, it's and our ability to believe in fictions, to hold collectively a belief in fictions, which is what gives us So, our fake news and and our willingness to believe in this, although these may have may also be reflective of in the first place. So he argues that there're aspects of reality. There's objective reality and then there's the fictional reality, which is what makes us unique and special. And the things that he is most of the things that things like religion, corporations, countries, even money. All of these are fictions, but they are tremendously They are what give us the and allows us to operate So ultimately, according to Dr.Harari, the power of humanity is and believe in great stories. And I'm confident that Dr. Harari will demonstrate this capacity to tell great stories this evening. With no further ado, Dr. Harari. (audience clapping) - Thank you. So thank you for this introduction, and thank you all for coming to hear me. And I want to speak not how we got here, but about the future, And in fact, I don't has much of a future left. We are probably one of the last in a century or two at most, I guess that humans like and earth will be dominated by or entities. Beings that will be more different from us than we are different from And we are beginning to see the signs of this revolution all around us. And I want to tonight to focus on one particularly important sign, which is what is happening to authority. To the shift, authority is For centuries, for we have been accumulating in our own human hands, but now, authority is to shift from us to other entities, and in particular, to shift But before discussing these algorithms, and their potential for being I want to spend a few minutes looking at the last few centuries, which saw really the in the shape of the ideology For centuries before, humans believed that the in the world, is not their imagination, is but most humans thought that from outside, authority from the heavens, authority The most important sources in economics, in ethics, were the great gods, and their sacred books, and their representatives on Earth. The priests, the rabbis, the popes and so forth. Then in the last two, three centuries, we saw the humanist revolution, a tremendous political and which said basically, which from the heavens down to and said that the most the supreme source of authority, in all fields of life is human beings, and in particular, it is the feelings and the free choices of human individuals. What humanism told humans, is that when you have whether it's a problem or whether it's a problem of an entire society, or an entire nation, you don't need to look or from the Bible or some big brother. You need to look for the in your feelings, in your free choices. And we've all heard thousands which tell us, listen to and follow your heart, do what feels good to you. And these are really or advices about authority for the last two or three centuries. In almost all fields of life, if we start with politics, so in a humanist world, in a world that believes is human feelings, in politics this manifests that the voter is the supreme authority, the voter knows best. When you have some really like who should rule the country, who should be president, so you don't ask God and and you don't ask the Rather you go to each and you ask, &quot;What do you think? &quot;What do you feel about this question?&quot;. And most of the time, that decide the issue. It's not rational thinking, And the common assumption is that there is no higher You cannot come to humans and tell them, &quot;Yes, you think like &quot;But there is some higher authority &quot;that tells you that you are wrong&quot;. This was the case, for but not in modern humanistic politics, certainly not in a democracy. The same thing is true What is humanist economics? It's an economic view that says that the highest authority is the whims of individual customers. The customer is always right. How do you know if an economic decision is the right decision? How do you know if a In a humanist economy, the customers vote with their credit card, and once they've voted, there is no higher authority that can tell the customers, Let's say you want to produce what is the best car in the world? So let's say Toyota or the best car in the world. They gather together the in chemistry in economics. They bring together the best they even throw in the best artists and the Oscar winners and whatever. And they give them four and design and manufacture And they do it. And they produce the Toyota And then they produce and send them to car or all over the world. And the customers don't buy the cars. What does it mean? Does it mean that the customers are wrong? No, the customer is always right, in a humanistic economy. It means that all these They are not a higher In a communist dictatorship, you can come to the &quot;the car for you, &quot;the Politburo decided in its wisdom, &quot;that this is the perfect &quot;and this is the car But this is not how it works in a liberal humanistic economy, where there is no higher The same idea is also found What is humanist art? It is art that believes that beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. How do you know what is art? How do you know what is good art? What is beautiful and what is ugly? For thousands of years, philosophers and thinkers and artists had all kinds of theories and what is beautiful. And usually, they thought that there was some objective yardstick. A divine yardstick probably, that defines art and beauty. God defines what is art Then came along humanist aesthetics in the last two centuries and shifted the source of Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. In 1917, exactly a century ago, Marcel Duchamp took an declared it a work of and ever since then, if you went to a first you probably saw this image history of art course in one of the first lessons, and the lecture shows the image and asks the students, And all hell breaks loose. &quot;Hey, it's art, it's not How do you define art? And at least if this is or humanist college, the lecture will steer the discussion to the conclusion that there or yardstick for art, or for beauty. Art is anything that human beings think or define as art, as beauty is in the eye of the beholder. If you think that this is beautiful, this is a beautiful work of art, and you're willing to to have it in your home, and it costs millions of dollars. Now the Fountain by Marcel Duchamp, then who is there in the that you're wrong? And that you don't know what So this is humanist aesthetics. The same principle also What is good and what is evil? What is a pious action and what is a sin? So in previous eras, again, you went to God or you went to the Bible. Let's say, with the case of homosexuality. So in the Middle Ages, the Catholic Church came and said homosexuality is a sin. Why? Because God said so, because the Bible said so, because the pope said so. And this was the source Nobody cared much what people Now, in the era of humanist ethics, the saying is we don't care or what the Bible says We want to know how people actually feel. If two men are in love, and they both feel very happy with that, and they don't harm anybody, so what could possibly be wrong with it? It's very simple. The highest authority is the authority of human feelings. If humans feel good about something, and nobody feels bad Of course, there are also in humanist ethics. What happens if I feel let's say an extramarital affair, but my husband feels very bad about it? So whose feelings count for more? Then you have a dilemma you have a discussion. But the key point is that the in terms of human feelings, not in terms of divine commandments. It's interesting that today, even some religious fundamentalists And they're using the and not the language I come from the Hebrew and every year for the we have in Jerusalem, our own gay parade, which is a very rare day because this is a very for most of the year, but the gay parade is a because then you have and Muslims and Christians and to shout against the gay parade. (audience laughing) So we have one day of (audience laughing) But the really interesting that at least some of them use. They go to the television or to the radio, and they say it hurts our feelings. They don't say God said that homosexuality is a terrible sin. Some of them say so of course, but when they go on television, they would usually say they shouldn't hold the Gay Pride Parade in Jerusalem, because it hurts our feelings. Just the same way that gay people want us to respect their feelings, they should respect our feelings and hold the parade in Tel Aviv or some other place not in Jerusalem. (audience laughing) Now, again, it doesn't about the argument, the interesting point here is that even such religious that it's more effective in terms of human feelings, and not in terms of divine commandments. And finally, since we are in a university, so let's say a few words So what is humanist education? For hundreds of years when people thought that the supreme source of the main aim of education to that outside source of authority. If you thought, for example, that the Bible was the or God was the highest then the main purpose of education, was to teach you what God said, and what the Bible said, and what the wise people In humanist education, since the highest source of and your own thoughts, the chief aim, the most important aim is to enable you to think for yourself. You go to everybody from kindergarten to the professor of that university, and you ask them, &quot;What are &quot;the pupils, the students?&quot;. And they will tell you, &quot;Oh, &quot;and we try to teach physics, &quot;and we try to teach history, &quot;but above all, &quot;I try to teach my students This is the highest ideal because this is the source of authority, you have to be able to connect to it. Now, all of this is now under the cloud now facing a huge threat a deadly threat. This entire humanist not so much from or from dictators in North The really big threat to is now emerging from the laboratories, from the universities, from the research departments because what more and more is that this entire story of humanism is really based on outdated science or an outdated understanding of the world, and in particular, an of Homo sapiens, of this Humanism is based on in the ability of humans and a very strong belief in human feelings as the best source of But, now scientists are saying, first of all, there is no Science is familiar with just two kinds of processes in nature. You have deterministic processes, and you have random processes, and of course, you have and determinism, which result in a probabilistic outcome, but none of that is freedom. Freedom has absolutely no or biological perspective. It's just another myth, another empty term that humans have invented. Humans have invented God, and humans have invented heaven and hell, and humans have invented free will, but there is no more truth to free will than there is to heaven and hell. And as for feelings, they are not a fiction of our imagination, but feelings are really and there is nothing metaphysical or supernatural about them. There is no obvious as the highest authority in the world, and most importantly, what scientists and engineers is that if we only have enough data, and enough computing power, we can create external and their feelings much better than humans can understand themselves. And once you have an algorithm and understands your feeling better than you understand yourself, this is the point when from humans to algorithms. Now, that sounds both frightening, So I'll try to explain what it means. First of all, what does it mean, that feelings and organisms You can say that, in a way it's possible to summarize more than in the life sciences and and in evolution, in just three words, This is now more and not only in the life sciences, but also in computer science, which is why the two are merging, and what this idea that what it really means and not just human, also chimpanzee and elephant and dolphin feelings, sensations and emotions, they're all just a biochemical calculating probabilities Feelings are not some metaphysical quality that God gave Homo sapiens and appreciate music, feelings are processes of calculation, biochemical calculation, shaped by millions of to enable humans and other mammals and other animals to make good decisions when they are faced with and reproduction. What does it mean? Let's take a concrete example. Let's say you're a baboon and you face a typical In order to survive, you have to eat, in order to survive you have by somebody else. And let's say that as you you suddenly see a tree But you also see a lion, And you need to make a decision for the bananas or not. This is the kind of problem and like humans have been facing for millions and millions of years. Now in order to... This is really a question of I the baboon, I need to that I would starve to death versus the probability if I try to reach for these bananas. I need to know which probability is higher in order to make a good decision. For that, I first of all need I need data about the bananas. How far are the bananas? How many bananas? Are they big or small? Ripe or green? It's one situation when we are talking about 10 big ripe bananas, and it's very different if you have just two small green bananas. Similarly, I need information, How far is the lion? How big is the lion? How fast I think the lion can run. Is the lion asleep or awaken? Does the lion look hungry or satiated? I need all these kinds And of course, I need a how hungry I am, how fast I can run and so forth. Then I need to take all and somehow calculate the probabilities. How does the baboon do it? The baboon does not take out or calculator and start No, the entire body of the It takes in the data with our sensations, with our sight, with our we take in all the data and then the nervous system and the brain, they're the calculator calculates the probabilities, and the answer will the answer will appear as If chances are that I should then this will appear as I will feel very courageous, I feel I can do it, or my hair will stand out, and I'll run for the bananas. If the result of the calculation then this too will appear not as a number, but as an emotion, this is fear. This is how fear emerges. And I will be very frightened and run away from there. So what we, in day to day and emotions and so forth, according to the standard theory these are really biochemical algorithms calculating probabilities. Now until today, until this idea, this understanding that emotions and feelings are really just a biochemical process this didn't have much because nobody had the capacity and nobody had the to analyze that data, and really understand For thousands of years, all kinds of authorities tried to understand what what do we think? What do we feel? But nobody was really able to do it. The Catholic Church in the Middle Ages or the KGB in Soviet Russia, they were very interested in hacking humans, but they couldn't do it. Even if the KGB followed and recorded every conversation you had, and every activity that you took, the KGB did not have the and it did not have the to really make sense the human brain or within the human body. So until today, when humanism told people, don't listen to the pope, don't listen to Stalin, listen to your feelings. This was good advice. Because your feelings for making decision, they're the best algorithm in the world. Your feelings, human feelings by millions of years of natural selection, algorithms that withstood in the world, the quality tests of natural selection. So if you had to choose and listening to your feelings, it was very good advice, what humanism told you, The Bible was just the in ancient Jerusalem. Your feelings were the best that has been shaped by of natural selection. So it made good advice to But now, things are changing. We are now at the intersection between two immense On the one hand for more than a century, at least since Charles Darwin, we have been gaining a better of the human body, and of the human brain, and of human decision making and human emotions and And at the same time, with the rise and development we have been learning and better electronic algorithms, with more and more computing power. Until today, these two were but now they are coming together. I think the crucial thing in the second decade of the 21st century, is the merging of these two tidal waves. The wall separating biotech which you can also see in the market, that corporations like Apple or Amazon or Google or Facebook, that began as strictly are increasingly becoming biotech. Because really, there is no between the two. And we're very close to the and unlike the Catholic Church, Facebook or Google will be than you understand yourself. Because they will have the data, they will have the biological knowledge, and they will have the to understand exactly how you feel, and why you feel the way that you feel. This is already happening which is the field of medicine. In the field of medicine, it's Authority has already from humans to algorithms. I think it's a very fair that the most important about your body, during your lifetime on the basis of your feelings, they will be taken by algorithms on the basis of what they know about you and you don't know about yourself. To give a practical real life example, which made a lot of headlines. Two, three years ago, there about Angelina Jolie. She did a genetic test, she had a mutation, I think And according to big data statistics, women who have this particular mutation in this particular gene, they have an 87% chance Now, at the time, Angelina Jolie She of course made all the tests and checks and she did not She felt also perfectly healthy. Her feelings were telling &quot;You don't need to do anything&quot;. But the big data algorithms, they were telling her They told her you have a time And even though you don't you had better do something about it now. And Angelina Jolie very preferred to listen to the algorithm, and not to her own feelings. She underwent a double mastectomy, and also published her story, I think it was in The New York Times in order to encourage other and perhaps take similar preventive steps. So this kind of scenario, that your feelings tell but some big data algorithm you're not okay, and you prefer to listen to the algorithm, this I think is more and more going to be the shape of medicine in the 21st century. But it won't remain We are likely to see a in almost all fields of human activity. In the past, say in the Middle Ages, you had the monotheistic telling people authority from the gods. If you have a problem in your life, listen to the Word of Then you had humanism, let's bring down authority from the clouds to human feelings. Don't listen to the Bible, don't listen to your own feelings. Now, we are seeing the or a new ideology, which we can call dataism, because it believes that comes from data. And dataism shifts back to the Google Cloud, to the Microsoft Cloud. And dataism tells people, &quot;listen to Google, listen to Amazon. &quot;They know how you feel, &quot;and they also know why you &quot;and therefore they can &quot;on your behalf&quot;. What does it mean in practice? It's very important for me as a historian, to always bring down not only authority from the clouds to humans, but also bring down to concrete examples from So what does it mean, from our feelings to So because I write books, So let's take an example A mundane decision that you need to take what book to read? So in the Middle Ages, you went to the source of and you asked the priest And the priest will it's the best book in the world, all the answers are there, you don't need to read any just the Bible is enough. Then came humanism in the and told people, &quot;Ah, yes, the Bible, &quot;there are some nice chapters there, &quot;but so many parts of it, &quot;they really need a good editor. (audience laughing) &quot;And really, you don't &quot;other than yourself, &quot;just follow your feelings&quot;. There are so many good books You go to a bookshop, you you take this book and that you feel some gut instinct, connecting you to a particular buy it, read it. So this was the humanist way Now with the beginning we go to the Amazon virtual bookshop, and the moment I enter an algorithm pops up and &quot;I've been following you, &quot;I've been following &quot;and based on what I know about you, &quot;and statistics about millions &quot;I recommend these three books to you&quot;. But this is really just The next step, which is is that Amazon in order it needs more and more data on you, and your preferences and your feelings. So if you read, like me, if you should know that as you read the book, for the first time in history, the book is reading you. It never happened before. You go back to ancient times or you go back to the early so Gutenberg brought print to Europe and they started printing books, but all these books printed by they never read people. It's only the people who read the books. Now books are reading people. As I or you read a book on Kindle, Kindle is following me. Kindle knows which pages I read fast, which pages I read slow, it's very easy for Kindle to know that. And Kindle also notices when and perhaps never coming back to it. Based on that kind of information, Amazon has a much better idea what I like and what I don't like. But this is still very, very primitive. The crucial thing is to to get within your body, to get within your brain in your mind. And this can start to happen today. If you connect Kindle to which is already in existence, then Kindle could know, when I'm bored, when I'm angry, based It's the same way that I what your emotion is by We can now have Kindle And based on that, Amazon of what I like or don't like. But this is still primitive, because it still doesn't The really crucial step, and we are very, very close to that step, is when you connect Kindle on or inside my body. And once you do that, Kindle will know the of every sentence I read in the book. I read a sentence, and Kindle knows, which means Amazon knows, what happened to my blood pressure, what happened to my adrenaline level, what happened to my brain By the time I finish the book, let's say I read By the time that I finish reading I forgot most of it. (audience laughing) But Amazon will never forget anything. By the time I finish &quot;War and Peace&quot;, Amazon knows exactly who I am, what is my personality type, and how to press my emotional buttons. And based on this Kind of knowledge, it can do far more than In different situations, it could be taken in different ways. If you live, let's say in North Korea, so everybody will have to and if you enter a room and you see a picture of Kim Jong-un, and your blood pressure and then that's the end of you. (audience laughing) In a liberal society, it can go in different directions. Amazon recommending not but far more important things Like let's say that I'm in a relationship, and my boyfriend asks me, either we get married or we So kind of one of the that any animal needs to about mates. So let's say you're either we get married, or we're separating, no third option. So, in the Middle Ages, you would go to the In the humanist age, in they will tell you just follow your heart. Just try to connect to your authentic self and just follow your heart. In the 21st century, the advice will be &quot;Oh, listen to Amazon, &quot;ask Google what to do&quot;. And I would come to Google or Amazon, and I would say, &quot;Google, &quot;What do you recommend that I do? &quot;What is the best course And Google will say, &quot;Oh, &quot;during your lifetime. &quot;I've been reading all your emails &quot;and all your search &quot;I've been listening to &quot;I've been tracking whenever &quot;I saw what was happening to your heart. &quot;Also, every time you went on a date, &quot;I followed you around &quot;and I saw what happened &quot;or to your heart rate or &quot;And I know your DNA scan &quot;and all your medical &quot;And of course, I know &quot;also about your boyfriend &quot;and I have data on millions &quot;and unsuccessful relationships. &quot;And based on all this data, &quot;I recommend to you with (audience laughing) &quot;that it's a good idea to get married. &quot;That's the best thing But Google will tell &quot;that I even know you don't (audience laughing) &quot;And I also understand why, &quot;because you think you can do better, &quot;because you think that, oh, &quot;And your biochemical &quot;the African savanna 100,000 years ago, &quot;it gives far too much importance &quot;to external looks, to beauty. &quot;Because this is what mattered in &quot;the African savanna 100,000 years ago, &quot;it was a good indicator of fitness. &quot;And you are still following &quot;from the African savanna. &quot;But my algorithm is much, much better. &quot;I have the latest &quot;in the post modern world. &quot;And I don't ignore beauty, &quot;I don't ignore good looks. &quot;But unlike your algorithm, &quot;that gives good looks 30% in weighing, &quot;in evaluating relationships, &quot;I know that the true impact of looks &quot;on the long term success of &quot;So I took this into consideration, &quot;and I'm still telling you, &quot;that you're better off married&quot;. And in the end, it's Google doesn't have to be perfect, it just have to be better It just have to make consistently than the decisions people And people often make in the most important They choose what to study or and after 10 years, they, &quot;Ah, this was such And Google will just have And it won't happen overnight, like in some immediate We'll ask Google or Amazon for their advice on and if we see that indeed we than the decisions we then we trust them more and more, trust them more with our data, and also trust them more with authority to make decisions for us. And it's really happening all Like if you think about So more and more people to Google Maps or to Waze, or some other GPS application. You reach an intersection, your gut instinct tells you turn right, Google Maps tells you, &quot;I know that there is a And you trust your intuition, and you turn right and your late. Next time, you say, &quot;Okay, and you follow Google's recommendation and you arrive on time, you learn not to trust your intuition, it's better to trust Google. And very soon, people reach a point, when they have no idea where they are, they lose their spatial and find their way around space. They just follow blindly is telling them. And if something happens and they are clueless. They don't know to find This is happening already today, and it's not because some it's decisions we are all Now, two caveats before I open First of all very important to emphasize that all this depends on the idea that we are in the process and in particular, of and the human brain. But we are still very, very far and even further from And there is a chance that in the end, it will turn out that organisms There are some very deep things about the brain and the mind, and all this dream will So this is the first thing we still, we are not yet there yet, really understanding the human The other important thing to bear in mind, is that technology is never deterministic. You can use the same technology in order to create very This is one of the chief You could use the technology of the Industrial Revolution, trains and electricity and You could use that to create or a fascist regime or The trains did not tell You have here a very famous image. This is East Asia. An image of East Asia at from a satellite. And what you see the bottom a sea of light. And in the top corner you see And in between the dark this is North Korea. Now why is North Korea so dark, while South Korea is so full of light? It's not because North about electricity or light bulbs. It's because they chose to with electricity than the people So this is a very visual that technology is not deterministic. And if you don't like some of the possibilities in this talk tonight, you should know that you can So thank you for listening, and we now have time for some questions. (audience clapping) (lighthearted guitar music)