(truck whirring) - Pathetic. Sad. (lighter flicking) You're sad. - Hm, so sad. - Yeah. Dad asked you to help, - You have no idea what I am doing. - [Jamie] Yeah I do, I, You're doing what you always do. You're, you're making Help from what, who the fuck knows, Beth? So just keep it up, just keep acting like the only and we'll all keep giving you attention. - He asked me to wreck Well, I'm sure you could Jamie, huh? I bet you suck dick like - Ow! - Ha! (Beth screaming) (Jamie chuckling) - That make you feel good, huh? Big man? - Yeah, actually it was quite liberating. I feel like I had a massage. - Fuck you. - Yeah. - Fuck you. - I'm the only one you haven't. - You know why you're so soft, Jamie? Huh? Because you never lost, you never lost anything in - Well, I lost the same mother you lost and the same brother. - You don't have them, There is a difference. - [Jamie] Okay, I can't Why don't you, why don't you explain the why don't you rivet - I'll show you the difference. (gun cocking) You gotta watch 'em die to lose 'em. - Well, I should be so lucky, but you're incapable of It's just everyone else - Do it. Please do it. Do the world a fucking favor. (gun shot) (tires screeching) (intense music) (whistling) (intense music) (intense music) (whistling) (intense music) (truck whirring) (birds chirping) - You guys are fucking idiots! You'll rot in prison for this the rest of your fucking lives! - No, no, no. It happens all the time. The lost souls, they come they can't bear live another day, so they decide to end it all. It's really toughest They never understand why. - Fuck you. - Don't you look at me, you piece of shit. You look at him. He has to understand what he's up against. That semi that ran into was that an accident? - It was a convenient opportunity. - [Rip] It ain't so fucking I want you to tell him about the land. Tell him how you get it. - We inflate the land prices, run up the property tax You know how much the You think I'm gonna be the last person who's gonna want to take it? Now, your father he has two choices, either to sell it or to lose it. That's the fucking truth. - Now you know, Kayce. Jimmy, go on and cut him down. - Fuck you guys! Fuck you! Fucking idiots. (horses neighing) (Dan grunting) - Let him hang. - Hey man, can I- Hey man. Hey. It's like I'm a fucking ghost. So uh, where'd you learn to cowboy? - My family ran relay You ever seen people run It's like that, but on horses. My dad had me break all the colts 'cause he said that makes the horses quiet. - Where's your family now? - Dead or in prison. - We got a lot in common. - You look like the roadie You couldn't ride a horse - See if you strap me - Oh. - No, I was talking about our families. - I told you I don't have one. - That's what we have in common. - Excuse me. You wanna dance? - Sorry man, we're having a conversation. - I didn't ask you to dance, I asked her. - I'm good, buddy. Thanks. - So that's a no? - Yeah, that's a no. - [Avery] Jimmy. Answer's no, buddy. We're having a serious conversation. - So uh, fuck off. - What the fuck did you - Sorry. Fuck off! - All right mother fucker, Be right over here, mother fucker. - [Avery] You need to learn - We're with the Yellowstone. No one's gonna mess with us. (Jimmy grunting) (glass crashing) - Mother fucker! - What the fuck, you son of a- - Take him out! (men grunting) (subtle country music) - What's going on? - A bunch of the - What do you mean worked over? - They had the hell beat out of 'em. - I'll take care of this. (subtle country music) (dramatic music) (people shouting) (bull roaring) (objects crashing) (bull roaring) (intense music) (bull roaring) (people shouting) - Jimmy, you fucking call Call him out, Jimmy! - Him! (punches landing) Yes, right there! (overlapping shouting) - Get his ass! - Right here, get his ass, get his ass! - Right there, right there! - Let's get this son (overlapping shouting) - Right there, right there! (bat landing) - How you like that, mother fucker? Get his ass! Come here, bitch! - Green shirt, green shirt! - What you call low man work, Jimmy. - What do you think you are? - Why isn't Cowboy out here? - He's a day worker, Jimmy. His ass stays in the saddle. - Worked on a few ranches, my ass never left the saddle either. - Well, maybe you should - Don't I know it. - What was that? (intense music) I didn't hear you. Won't fight, won't work, but you'll sure eat our food, won't you? And sit in our field and - So this is your field, is it, Rip? - Hm. - Hey, these are set. - Jimmy, go get on the quad. (intense music) Hey! The fuck you doing standing there? Start wrapping wire. - Hell, I'm leaving tonight. You can spend my week's wages at the bar for all I give a shit. - All these great ranches Why not go back to one of them? Why don't you get in my truck, hm? - 'Cause I can't leave the state. - There's plenty of ranches in Montana. Nah, it's because they wouldn't have you. Why is that, hm? I start making phone calls, what I'm gonna find out about you? - Well, I reckon I got a fondness Guess we got that in common, don't we? (Walker grunting) (punch landing) (intense music) - I'm gonna take your fucking heart out through your throat, Walker. Shove that little fucking - This goes down, we gotta pick sides. - I'm on whatever side you're on. - You won't die today, Walker, but you'll be taking your last step. Let's see what kind of cowboy - There you go. - I'm done with this place. You gonna shoot me in the back, old fart? Go for it. (doors shutting) (trunk rattling) (wires cutting) (cans rattling) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) - [Biker] Let me guess, - You gonna burn it? That's your plan? - Might burn you with it. - Why? Why would you do that? (liquid sloshing) - We weren't bothering - This field's mine. That fence mine. You damaged both, then you This is my home. If I did this to your - Well, I'd kill you. - That's right. (dramatic music) (metal clanking) The man said if you didn't and you didn't leave. We keep our word in this valley. - Fine, we'll leave. - No, it's too late for that. - I said we'll leave. - I don't want you to leave. I want you to dig. (dramatic music) (dirt crunching) - The sun's starting to - [John] Yeah. All right, that's enough. Nobody said get out. Yeah, not much point in that. (dramatic music) - I have children. - [John] So do I. From what I've seen, yours (dramatic music) Where are you from? - California. - Figures. (dramatic music) I'm gonna leave these right here in the middle of my field and if you ever come back again, I'm gonna fill 'em, you understand? - Thank you. - Thank you's not an answer. Repeat what I say. I'm going back to California. - I'm, I'm going back to California. - Montana doesn't want you. - [Biker] Montana doesn't want me. I'm never coming back, I swear. - I'm gonna hold you to that. (dramatic music) (shovels scraping) - Sporting Club running buffalo now? - Sporting Club ain't - Yeah, well whose are those then? - Don't matter, as long - You got permission to - Nah, I just decided today, I'd run some buffalo across - Yeah, well I don't want my cattle getting brucellosis from - Keep your cattle on - You oughta tell your boy to watch the base in his - Boy? (intense music) (punch landing) - [Wade] Hey, I'll blow all over this field. - Then fucking do it. - [Ryan] Reserve Agent I'll shoot you where you stand. Put that fucking pistol down. - [Wade] Reserve Agent? Dutton still running that scam? - We don't know you. - [Wade] You wouldn't, but your boss does. Tell him Wade Morrow said hello. We'll see each other again, I'm sure. - You better hope I never see you again. - Next time, fight me fair. - Shit, I'll fight you fair. Get off your horse. - I'll save that for a rainy day. - I need proof that those - If you're man enough, come and get it. Come on. - Last time I saw you, Guess life don't mean - I spent 30 years inside a concrete box fighting to survive, praying that a bird so I'd have proof of some better place than the hell you put me in. - No you, you put yourself in it. You didn't deserve the bird. - You could have told the truth. You could have told him what she'd become. - She became what you made her. Then you killed her for it. I raised your son with I made him what he is today. If he chooses to let you un-make it, I can't stop that, but if your plan is to get me back for what you did to yourself, I will treat you like everyone else who showed and I'll rid the fucking world of you. Best Salisbury steak in 'cause you never know which (door squeaking)