Welcome to undisclosed location in Texas miles. It's a pleasure to have you here Esme to a third nice tomorrow. Yeah. Well we met before they have become friends quickly We me too. We we share some similar views and come from very different angles, but we're gonna have a great time today and I just want to Announce to those that are listening to us today. There's gonna be a third voice It's a voice that will translate clarify anything you say in English or anything that will be sent back in Chinese so that third voice will come in and out of our Conversation and I think that will provide clarity for our whole audience. So we'll we'll stay there And so your story is one that is hard for anyone to believe your story is amazing Your rise in China your exit from China and now the position that you're in in the United States is one that people find hard to believe I Don't find it that hard to believe I believe almost everything that you say and I think telling your story to the people of the world and the people of America and China and everywhere else is Very important for the world understand what China's grand strategy is who's who is miles Kwok? Why are why are you in the United States? all of these questions are gonna be great questions for you to answer and then I've got some other very specific questions about data and the Chinese Communist Party and more importantly the two currency worlds that you and I seem to believe exist and and Be so important to China's success or failure going forward. So please share with me Why are you in the United States? Well, what happened when you were in China? Why did you leave? China Thank you, sir. Yes. I'm a young Greece. No good. Sometimes. I need a hope but Early, I won't use the my chilis. Okay, you answer. Okay meatwad's done I want to try to do the hope perfect. I think it's very easy to answer the I mean America because anti-ccp The Chinese Communist camera, I I want to qualified. I don't anti-chinese I don't anti-china. I love Chinese. I love you know my country China. Yes I hate the CCP I won't think of them down under I want to take of this redeem down You love the people you love the culture of the country. You do not like the government Yes, the garment and the CCP come to party a lot of people in the US feel that way then yeah Then I won't give America the warning. Yes You are in dangerous way You are too naive belief of the CCP, yes You say where the America is too naive to believe what the CCP's? Yes. Yes This is why I won't provide about the CCP any truth political culture Army, and the economy. Yes. This is why I'm here These why is the CCP won't take me back They pay the billions They signed the people's come America won't use any solution make it a deal Send me back and that's why he make me Can even me you know this? Yes many They've tried so basically what's known is the Chinese Secret Service the MSS Yes has come to London has come to America to try to take you and take you back. Yes Also, they try user anything one, you know, kill me They would love to kill you you I think you are potentially China's number one. Enemy the government the government not the people Number one is a steaming vendor number two. No, maybe using number three So sir, I'm I'm here. Yes, I have no I have believed you silent. Yes, you have put a call asylum Yes. Yes. Yeah Then I wonder the water know about the CCP the truth everything okay there what now is a very dangerous because CCP you look before when years ago I cook you to treat her. I Mean, yeah police clue about the CCP. Yes in being actor actually One chief Shan besides me and the check him off Everything you know about the atrocity. Okay, so don't tell us yet about Jack Ma at the end of the interview Yeah, you have a very bold prediction Yeah, and I'd love to hear your view on what's going to happen to Jack Ma but not yet. Okay, okay So you're you're talking about this? What happened with the hna chairman? Being let's say they would say he well he died or fell off a two foot wall this summer Others including yourself would say that he was assassinated fan bingbing was put into into jail for supposedly tax treatment will get get to all of that, but let's go back to the CCP What is the grand strategy in your opinion? What is the grand strategy of the CCP in relation to? In how it governs its relationship with the United States What is the CCP after I think this, you know when years ago when years ago? It's the September fall is the same years of they just went years I want a speech in the Hardison But they blocked me because of China cameras threatened is a Hansen the other today great great day. It's the Over-the-rhine years. These are the words the prattling pens. It's me there There you go there so you were gonna speak at the Hudson Institute. Yeah, and they stopped it. You stopped by China threatened Yes the evidence then One years ago. I have a press conference in the DC I Called all the American to work China CCP half of the plan calls three F is One is a week America week in America. We camera yes to You know to make a kill America This is very seriously. Okay, three is a making, you know a terminal America who Wendy knows I'm a terminal terminal People got it so stable I give it a warning but rarely bad I think when years ago So I think this guy's crazy cat liar. Correct? Leave her guy to me the trust right then. This is the year You just look before right you look what happened? Yeah, what did you see? You see everything that happened? Yeah, this is haben There's a white the few months. I bought it actually that their chairman type put a wands in the French Yes, all the people all Mouser grew up maybe toggles the true, so Still UCP have a strategy three F America. Got it. 3d you Tom? Yeah this right And for those that haven't seen you before on video One year ago you predicted that the chairman of hna would be killed within a year. Yes, sir. And 363 days later he fell off a wall in Provence. Yes, right. Maybe it was just coincidental. No, no I drew a the chairman died. Yes, why years ago I see The two guys actually one is the president. Why is the chairman want to be one guy one guy? It's apparently in the one year because one children won't kill him because they want you know, he's superior any Qualified the information about cooperation. They loomed AGA the queue people they pray in the outside official Despises them right? What is the habit then only what me I See the guy not is the taker Soviet title word is the one cheese and China CCP camera kill him Walter him and this is this is the concept of the government The government edifice have caught the Chinese Communist Party in theory. They don't earn much money each year Right in theory, but in practice what you're what you allege is There was this magical Twenty-eight percent shareholder of hna that the New York Times wrote about That no one knew who owned hna It was an insurance company that started at zero in the last eight years and rose to prominence Yes, and there was a shareholder that no one knew who they were Miles Kwok you say that that shareholder is Wayne Kishan and his family. Yes and Originally, I think people thought that that was crazy and that you were bombastic and now as things are happening as you predicted People are starting to believe more in you. Yeah you and I have had the opportunity to spend many hours together. Yeah, and I believe many of the things that you say because everything is connected Whether it's miles Kwok talking about the chairman of hna or wanker Shan or fan bingbing or What's going to happen to Jack Ma which will still talk about a little later. Those things are all related to how the CCP? Enriches itself. So what you're alleging is that there's a lot of corruption at the top That's correct. Yeah, and so what do you think the Chinese leadership is worth today? How wealthy do you think they are personally? Oh This is very easy You know China is I read your GDP em were the 10 trillion dollars, right? It's about twelve and a half. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, trying to hop the money cause we're now you check the last ten years Where does the money go? Yeah it goes Well to the printing press yeah today. I wish the steaming ban you talk about one question Yes, why China print her too much? Currency China? No you Felician you've officially up. Yes Why very easy to keep the order? Older, yeah American Albury that all the country the cost by GTP's and 90% gives the people Yes Chinese Arita the country 10% give the people your check American all the social housing here how much? More the 20 trillion. Yeah, China how much? Have a feeling maybe lower housing. You know the housing. Yeah, why? China absolutely, the very low cost we take the money to the outside so you're saying you're saying it's it's the same thing as a Government kleptocracy in Africa. Yeah, definitely She in the you know in the outside. Yes country Yes, but these are world angers. Very wanting the useless ready You know, there's a happy new, right? This is the way you know, you look at America a an enterpreneur any you know? You were cement Chinese kind of the company know they kind of threatened in a bigger picture there's this concept that a nation-state like China and China has said globally that their Economic system is superior to that of Western capitalism Yes and when you when you peel back The onion you see that there is no larger income and wealth dispersion Then there is in China because the elites are the kleptocrats and the people have very little Yeah, and those that actually rise through the ranks of this hybrid system end up going to jail or falling off a wall and Right is that it's a very important distinction to draw When you look at the economy of the CCP versus the economy of Western capitalism. Yeah, right hundred was incredible So I'd loved I'd love to ask you a couple of questions about that, you know even Premier Li Has stated that Chinese economic statistics are unreliable. Mmm. What do you think? the real economic Statistics are as far as GDP growth and I know you and I've had several conversations about the FX reserves How do you think about the numbers that are reported for GDP growth versus what they really are and the FX reserve number versus what? It really is. I know that's a specific question, but we'll move move on from this. Yeah. Thank you, sir It's a good question. You know, we need a look of all China economy. We need a local four point four points yeah, one is the I am - I Am - how much yes, basically cash in circulation. Yeah for those that are that aren't economists. He has a 23 29 trillion dollars China printer army be because this is EVB currency. Yes Secondly, you need a look at all about China. It's about personal interest accrues Right. Yes No 20 night really this no Caruso - March 3 You need of all bank the pay the band the bad bank pay advance. Yes, 45 percent 45 percent of the loans or more I think yeah Fall it's very important. You see For easy access changed. Yes currency of currency exchange I think yes up Tom Tom. You look at Hong Kong without us we should artists. Yes. I'm MB miss Doris Nobody no Chinese. No also American Company in the China can move, you know, hugely money go to outside, correct? Even you earn is the money Columbus laws away So this is a full point I give you answer no Party can't give a China economy co2 stable reliable impossible the Nozick jump in the cheetah the word the mega fake economy they have this is a printer the currency this You know came true the currency move it'll outside. Yes So you've moved you've taken us to the place that brought you and I together. Yes You came to this conclusion Long ago and you're right. I think you're right, of course because you you agree with me so there So this this concept of two currency worlds is one that is lost on many people yeah, uh, The the RMB economy of China is internal Yeah, and the economy of China in dollars is external Yeah, and they're desperately in need of dollars because that's how they trade with the rest of the world. Mm-hmm What what was so compelling when I met you? The most compelling thing that you showed me was the chart of Chinese M to the moving graphic Yes and will provide that moving graphic to the real vision audience? Separately in this video but more importantly Chinese m2 has grown from one trillion dollars worth of RMB Yeah, - as you say thirty trillion dollars on an economy of twelve. Yes, they've printed more money Internally than any one country in the history of the world as a percentage of GDP And as a percentage M2 growth versus GDP growth thing has ever come that close Yeah, so they've created a false economy of RMB and the exchange rate in dollar So you you took us to another place. You took us to Hong Kong for a minute. Yeah, right. Why does geez little colony of Hong Kong Still pegged to the dollar if China's economic model is so great. Why is that? very easy the answer sir, you know ko Hong Kong Dollars, you know, it's the tallest Hong Kong dollar with American dollars today. You just are the reason it's a peg the pay. Yes You know bank real rich reef sanitary chief your reserve we serve China Yes, the PBOC PBOC and Hong Kong Bank chief. Yes. Is it Norman Channing HKMA? Yes, these are fake These are true You ho can handle these Right Bank of China Hong Kong can be part of scene. Yeah. See see, these are the Mafia group seem, right? We're trying to the laundry money the station. Yes, I generate your your allegation Is that the Bank of China Hong Kong launders money for all of the for all of the Chinese leaders? Yeah, always you look go to New York. You say fine over China the building the bankers nor the duty Yeah, all the windows block always really Good to see okay. So I talk all of our American friend you say could sleep and over trying to never open the windows But it's more the building. Why isn't that more the 2000 employee you were here? How come for the 2003 you there? Why? This is vises them laundry system is a mafia Good worker there, then that'll really bank. So the Bank of China the Bank of China in in New York all the worst 2000 employees and they're doing you're saying they're doing everything from being spies to being mafia to being a Money launderer. Yes, this is for sure so search this there's a why I give you the answer very easy Hong Kong the tourists know the Because the China all the propaganda, you know Klee all the Hong Kong people the head you wonder you try so we can hover you you can push you know stronger than hundred dollars, but at least dude is to the come true that Foreign, you know currency go outside. Yes, and now is a big travel big because President Trump You know give the world, you know treating the would Say no your ass their training war who the economy down? Hmm. Well, the economy was already slowing Yeah, where's the floor before we went into trying to input a trying to put together a border adjustable tax or our tariff? has just made it a little worse the timing of The Trump administration this tariffs is not good for China. Yes I don't know if it was intentional or high right, but it's very bad. But even you go back to Hong Kong Norman Chan and the HKMA they've spent 78 percent of their reserves the excess reserves fighting the peg. Yeah This pegs been in place for more than 30 years and now Hong Kong imports us monetary policy So they're having to raise rates while China's economy slows down. This could be a very big problem for Hong Kong Yeah, I think it is another big problem. I see I want to go back and see this China It's a you call the you know, because of American with the try another tweening the war. Yes, trying that la become no good It's a cool to jump. Okay, so you're saying that the trade war is going to cause Chinese economy to drop? Yeah, did the watch was already dropping before they're into the white hunk on the bank. No, it's a very weak They have a to toys Make up fake Economy same time at me, man. Yes second is to open the close We are at I we know word Dollars. Sorry you mean you basically liberalize the arm. Yeah yet it let it free. Yeah So this is a white Hong Kong dollars. It look lassiter mad Dong dong China. Mainland. CCP is twice hop back hop back But nobody can read security hunka thought I would cut job one day CCP fan of the solution. No Hong Kong dollars No Hong Kong you your assertion is that at some point in time China will just take over Hong. This is a coat Yes physical the walnut right? These are pure Hong Kong dollar then I May be a challenge around American dollars right these have finally made to the reason. Don't talk to me about to see so Solve the China Sea were to tell the media that you know how you the piece needs, you know? See know you guys is there's a tree there tree. Oh no important the one goat challenger American dollar These are pure Hong Kong dollars. Okay Lee wanted they want to challenge the supremacy of the US dollar Yes is the way these days. First of the one it is a pure hunger dollar Lynch calendar murmuring about us so at the last party Congress Basically there were far few Chairman's of companies added to the Standing Committee in the Committee of the Politburo Right less corporate interest whether they were heads of SOE Zoar heads of private Quasi private companies much less business people on the Standing Committee and in the Politburo mmm is she trying to send a signal is he trying to change the the structure of the Standing Committee in the end the Politburo himself and take take out business interests and make it more The thought of she how do you think about what happened there at the party congress? So I wonder you qualify I need a transitive. Okay, I pay him a Student say either today you to the Iranian the type, you know, you know I guess all not an injured took Shane has a Town that had the took a comment on how Melissa Keshava solution here are gear parts a good student. Yeah means yet. Yeah. Yeah Determinative of India. It's a girl turns out to the boy English opinion So I want you know, I won't pay the guy too much of travel. Is he I want him, homie That's perfect. Yeah, so This is for sure. There's a happening Here today, I have the YouTube. No, it's the ma'am at all China ccp central government last of the three months the one by one Talk not how straight seeing the a privacy and renew say that again The CCP. Yes, one chief fan. Yes, and another leader at the malluci name. Yeah, is it? Including Jackie bah. Yeah last three months June July August. Yes, September z+ I don't even know come here you talk to Them go check them out. No guys. I won't leave you the country will be the country. Got it I want the new consecration to country giving me all the shares and come true the power basically give us all your wealth Yeah, do the why you see that? Jekima the if of all that these are the kings of the power K for the government Yeah, they call 500 people it's you know team unnamed. So what miles is referring You know what you're referring to now is just two days ago. Yeah, it was reported in China Yeah that Jack Ma had to sign over. Yeah ownership this is the dual life and Some of his ownership in VI e Alibaba. Yeah to five unnamed individuals yeah, which is a very strange thing to happen for one of the most powerful chairmen and CEOs and in China who is now Immediately retired and we don't know what we still don't want your prediction yet as to what's gonna happen So, please please hold that back. Let's let's ask. I have a few more questions. I really want to ask you a given the fact that the Chinese banking system is now call it a four hundred percent of GDP and You say that 45 percent of all loans in China might be bad What we say in the US as a funny saying we have a rolling loan gathers. No loss. Yeah So if you have forty five percent of your loans that are bad and your banks are four times your GDP You're insolvent, which major Chinese Bank in your mind is at the highest risk of failure My students were all the time in the bank all of them although Zoe banks all the joint stock bang Yeah number ones the bank over time Bank of China number two mission Bank Pinching Bank number three is the call Trinity ready for action. You see? Yeah divert Bank is Family, neither laundry the money. They don't give you anything. You can't really peeling tape So all the china patterns seemed a part of the same, but number one pang of the Chinese aha, number two mission Bank, you can use your bank all the the leaders of form of the leader families the you know, I see so you're saying that many of these banks work with the leadership in? Enriching them. Yeah. Yeah. Also three it's a developer package develop Africa Palestine all right the fun of the reason call we haul with the per country. No, these are longer than money. Yep so during the failures in the past of Hainan Development Bank Guangdong international trust and Investment Corporation get ik and the p2p Platforms that are failing today right there. We've had 200 p2p platforms fail in the last couple of months Do you think the government will make investors whole or do you think the government will allow losses to happen? Enjoy? The the every year change to the solution, but the theme of the goat take the money from poor people back Ricci or you look at China has a fine. Yeah, purple find out the group many years ago This is a hundred appealing The money is investment is the kind of wrong like right is the work of is among chan to be for political of the puerile, you know No no of the political secretary monkey Andrew gray family owned these final solutions finance a confining a curve a Hundred appealing harmony they want then I can p2v This again just come party you highlight war the proposition people the Cheetah you the solution negative you payback I see so so investors in China are the ones that lose their money man The leadership gives a solution where they take what's left? Yes, and the institutions fail. Yes. Yes So they're the why you can see the P so P if that happens though if that happens How do how does the leadership control the population from revolting? How does a revolution not happen, you know? Let's say a lot of banks fail. Yeah, this a white is you see the last of five years what does having? Saarbrucken true In the world war, you know parents who knows it could real China Sakura came to the five years cyber control Sabra control Yes, wasn't you fear way to one of the people free they fear revolution if we're illusion? Yes, this is reason I feel massive war cognitive Izuru these scandals saxy do the money just ease It's why we're in an airplane hangar, right? We can't be out in the public God knows what would happen to it? So these are why you know counter cap is a white china You know, how came true. There's revolution cyber can go first sagging. You look the gtp there. How much to pay call? Union side security control how much you see these Hundred billion dollars these farmer GDP is a kind of true often for people normal people p2v the people leave them rather than any leader family, they all the rest of the who the people sign the good people to tell yes, these y ccp is the word is the mafia group and the way that they've been able so what's fascinating about this big financial experiment that the the Communist party is engaged in they control the narrative, right? They control the press mmm They control the people they control the price level. Mm-hm right of various things in china. They control food prices they control energy prices and and in the end they also could that's how they control the economy and control the people from revolting and What you're saying is if the economic gravity hits China, which it looks like it's hitting now Given the fact that they're now running a current account deficit and things are slowing down very quickly That you think that they won't be able to control all of these things. Yeah, is that correct? Yes, correct So you nose count part not only came to these in came to everything. Mmm including saxy Including what sucks sucks sucks sucks Sex Sergei right China philosophy is the last four years Through them three three things one. I recent the country everything Alana to party they Belong copy I receive belonging to party. Okay, I recently by listened to party This is everything listen is the party giving you so you need for gym three Even you father your mother Not that good - Paddington party Everywhere China I see Suzy they can do what you'll find their mother You cannot live you find their mother Ruth you what you live the party you love your party more than your yeah Then is who give you everything party. Hmm? What is the you hundreds and Eason party? This is ridiculous. White American all the media Where's the world a stabilizer? What no one need the autocracy rugen in the china everywhere? You ask the older people will contrast the one-party. When do you father you mother, right? Well, no. No, why is everything you look like how to give you in positivism? Perfect segue? Yeah into why do the economist in the West. Yeah, why do the economist in the West believe? everything the Chinese Communist Party tells them why do Why is this notion of globalism? So so prevalent amongst the the the economists in the US and in the in the Western world Why do they believe the Chinese Communist Party? Why can't we see what's really happening now? I feel like if you read in the press in the last six months It looks like people are figuring out what the grand strategy of the CCP is it's changed a lot in the last year Yeah, but why do the economists believe what the what the government says? What a Western economy? Yeah. Yeah, very easy you are to can't were too kind the DCU too naive these are too bad In long term Americans 50 years to khuda life the nervous thing. You have the pedal regime is there you too can Second reason you ought American, you know finance I do including you I hope another person too greedy true. They are have the big new a program BG y PG wack Oh We discussed this, you know, tell us what BG, ys B is the coke blue collar, you know, it's the use of weapons had a hiker Information. Yeah using information You're not using technology Appeal. Yeah technology transfer and theft maybe theft is be these american those big big big money We estimate it's two to three hundred billion a year if you read Yeah, those if you read the report from the Defense Department or the White House, it's two hundred three hundred billion a year yes, so that's be you did a B G is a tendencies goat Goat is the benefit money American power these think as China tamarkan is as big of force Pretty good poverty even see you can pay you to you do everything for them. They can coerce you with money Yes, this is why you look at all the rise the world Don't you go to your hydrophones and you give it up my hand renewing to want really time Billy and Ruby must be bio Disease so jisub and it's in the money pay you got it. Why? Sacristy sex safe. Yes So they talk amuse a Reaper guy Yeah, I just like poor ad says sexy the always uses a why I'm making you Reaper. You've been problem I see so you go to China. How are you? Not you don't have the video because at I'm not going to any hotel And you some our prophet our put leave half of the video we take any tips one day certain you so Compromise they blackmail you IRA using outside Investment. This is a copy a way massive. You win the work the narrative 8z narratives in the way You look all the American public, you know sit Even when he's a lot being go to parties in trouble sign the mouse will go back Well, they give you the license the camera lessons. You keep it appealing the cash. Yes. So this lets go there for a second why you say and and I've become aware through the administration that There been several letters Handwritten. Yeah By either wanker Sean or she or someone very high up in the CCP. Yeah where they've taken an American Whether it be you've said Steve Wynn or sheldon adelson or lloyd blankfein or Steve Schwarzman Yeah, any of these people that are that are Western capitalists looking to do business in China? Yeah And they've delivered these letters to the US administration. Is that true? Hundreds into war and these letters are looking for your extradition Yes this at one after you why do the letters do from New York of the restaurants? I'm with her. Why don't know well we do their William. Will you clarify that for us please a machine? Maybe I don't know that you can know you're the fool you and could make one me Kwame Goku Mirinda if I found of candor turn Come from the normal citizens in us Normals in us from those business guys easy when impending money The new band in fontana, right? csdb owner heard that you're Meeting level people. They taking money's duty o technology Under your everything back then use of the shoes money Why is a financier guys the wind still human and you feel as a guy Jesus a PDA? There's a fundamental reason the worker worth money. Shouldn't those people if they're carrying letters from? One government to another shouldn't they have to register as a foreign agent? Hey, are they breaking? I think would they be breaking US law? Diver neither for sure. Yep organ. There's a way I want to ask you I will mark and Frank white. No American Possible either no, I would be I doing the vacation these Thing is a book in the Lord. Maybe maybe maybe the FBI should look into this. Yeah, I don't think so. I Hope I hope because no it's the CCP in America. I'm a beer. Well, they try it disappear Everything does I'm a worry sir. Yeah Okay, so we cover so many things there in China's a big place and their strategy is very difficult to elucidate in one hour right Yeah But is there is there political out what what I've noticed lately in the last few months is I've actually noticed some media outlets saying that She's political power given his the position He's taken in the tariff battle and the fact that the economy is headed down is his political power waning is it? Is it in question at all? Is there anyone challenging she in China? Yeah Pablo the Shia. I need to be careful I need a translator, please. Like like like there's a who Xinhua or someone's anyone is anyone challenging she yeah yeah, she was a phenomenal singer She - she didn't turn to the trainees a shot Yeah Lana took a Antonio Mueller and she charged and how does it Cindy we know about the she you not have a Who are seven principal Iran tomorrow, but I can't give you answer Don't talk a she don't talk. Don't talk. I wanna yeah CCP no more future no more two years of future. I believe these in two years no more future No, no CCP, because of the economy headed lower. I Okay, you calling me he's had a revolution Okay, so you think that you would take it back money, please? Yeah, I'll tell you a secret. I'll tell you a story and the President Bush 43 His last state dinner with who Jintao yes He actually got to speak with him alone. Yes and president. I room alone only one. Who what? Yes, no translate very rare. Yes. Tell me the tinglies. Okay English. Yes so President Bush asked who Jintao he said what worries you the most? and President Bush says I'll start he says what worries me the most is a potential for another terrorist attack on the United States soil And you know, what who Jintao said? Yeah, he said Jobs, I need to create at least 20 million jobs per year or there'll be a revolution and I'll be out of power So so you what you're saying is if the economy turns lower that there might be a revolution and the CCP Becomes restructured with I regularly polyols are he told President Bush? Me directly. Yeah Another story many people talk of this, but it's a totally you misunderstand what it is the truth Okay, Eugene. How is a China CCP leader? I know him very well. You know that very well. Yes, I know personally We're about good the present good the man and not to the politician. Okay? China CCP have the system Talking you. How can talk a lie? make you know criminal and a liar they Teach you how to lie and cheat reason, okay I reside Palestine manner today you looking for about China ever since you say? Yes, you say no they say no say yes This is a Hannibal Greg. Okay, who did not know? Whose go back cover all the leaders? They note is a good fabric. I'm that caught alight I see Lizzy, you're sayin. Oh it was intentional. Yeah scooting thought was my friend. Wouldn't not only were the one who killed him Right. I say they Billy the only one worried who won't kill me. I can see then I can take it more money How can take more girls no more worry, don't toss them. So you sleepy no one person is good Okay, I'm gonna go to the fun stuff So tell me why why do you think fan bingbing was was it was? Disappeared and just recently reappeared. Why do you think she was taken by the by the CCP? One years ago. I I called him a bother see one years ago Funding being must be having trouble by one chief son, and why can't one? Jeez, I have this actually with one being I see in the video Seems to me in the New York piggyback you you said that you basically said that she is Wayne cuz Sean's girlfriend yet I haven't seen many in event and then she took offense to that and sued you in New York. Yes Hey, I see the video from the time. Why did she go to jail? Because you know, why don't you send one says shut up don't send miles of work goes on outside when there is blue is me then they take the bank money and Wonder you don't talkative. Don't talk this go to your home Canary or finder you everything take it back disappear history, then threaten her don't talk War I so think about the way I'm then yeah See how much money had she laundered. Oh my god. It's this is a huge remember? I I'll call the members as these IRAs. It is a crazy guy liar guy at the one word rumored Feeling the peeling billions of dollars. Yeah, I think were being about everything for sure I have some friend is along the money as many years ago is a suitor her Once you shine just one week one points to repeating or maybe immediate phone pango vagina through Bank of China. Yeah I'm not a 3bd a family time the developer Bank easy then being do you take a 20 percent? You know commotion she got to keep it Didn't see jobs fee not act. That's better than acting. Oh, I really want to live you make 200 million at a time. That's a You have to fall in the Camaro 700 you where the housing? Well, so so that that seems so outlandish that it's hard to believe that's true for you to say that Someone just sets to keep 20 percent of four billion dollars running through two banks in China what you're saying? That's how it works. Yes Sometimes 20 percent you example another guy is a Hong Kong Yeah, I really think that developers in that China you need a cash. This is a funny Missy Okay, when we giving you 2 billion, but I want to study 5% the guy also the good friend come Yes, how can do this as they don't do this one day you go to jail. Yeah, don't do this too much 35 percent immediately move. Okay earner the perfect 750 million dollars that's the price crazy and these things are going on every single day in the Chinese banks. Yeah Do you think that US banking regulators know this I Don't think so hundred. Some people know I leave the one talk because of the benefit I've studied China for a long time and I've studied their banking system for a long time and these claims are hard for me To imagine that they're true. They're very difficult for me to believe One would think that a rules-based global financial? especially Interconnected in the banks that that this would be found very quickly But what you're saying is since the CCP runs the banks they can do whatever they wanted. Yes There's a way I really America sir, Carol, you know, I see you some of their you know Giving me the paper. Yes, very pretty. Yes, really shocking me. I guarantee Directly tell you I see many hedge fund managers. Use the first one number one Give me the about the China economy Any families correct? Ain't no hundred person. Not a hundred like a challenger me. I'm But use number one is really no China economy truth I really shop so I translate give all the my hedge fund all the my friends easy Wow, this is so so good is a person to you think I thought the trial economy and you give me that you know The information about China Bank Shaka me right no more. People know these these are true. This is real Immediately can happen you can check Hong Kong dollar China, you know is the economy is the job. Yeah. Thank you, sir Thank you all all right, we're gonna conclude this interview with one prediction Yeah, and we we talked when I when you and I first spent many hours together. We talked about Jack Ma. Yes and the signing of his shareholder Ownership era shares the assigning happened two days ago So unfortunately our this interview didn't happen three days ago But you told me who made you made two pretty bold predictions about Jack Ma. Why do you think he resigned or retired? Sorry retired from Alibaba. And is Alibaba run by the CPC and What do you think is likely to happen to Jack Ma in the next year or so? I think Hakeem is only to wait all the time has a feeling not only to way I always probably why yours only two things happen jail jail and By dead, he's either going to jail or he's gonna be killed. I think we might just fall off a wall Yes for the kill music kill you. You're only talking jack and ma Alibaba. Yes. You never fought Kuma is the type of piracy company called finance group finance group. Yeah, this is yeah Is it It's very important to the Chinese financial system. Oh my god. He challenges the banks. This is a really erna money You're not good at you know, is it the machine is it a competitive money? Yes, Ali Baba's a liar cheater. The thousands of thick one is a cheat America These are all the life item since it's all the truth fantasies of finances really good They really can earn the money and American commercial value stealing the dollars a trillion dollars These are the little bag who you look at the history, Germany 1927 to 1942 Hitler coming same way take all the new Turkish occupied Luigi country the another hand gives all the shirts Equity give the family same way. So this is the check and map before Before it's a hope young family You know on the money as you all the China and the preneur, it's a hope and other people make it a babies. Yes No, they need to take back the babies. You can either own the jakkamma. You'll get off when we jail And now that we kill you everybody same good result No dot that is a that is a prediction that our audience is going to also have a very hard time with but I think if you take the time to understand you miles Kwok and also your your Insinuations your allegations. It's all starting to prove to be true so I think it I think it I think it takes someone people should be taking the time to understand what you're saying and We just saw two days ago that he had to write sign over these shareholdings And so this is a bold prediction that is Going to I think be very controversial From a very controversial person. Yeah, but III thank you very much for taking the time for this interview Miles, and I look forward to spending more time together and learning more about the Chinese financial system. Thank you, sir. Kale. Thank you The pleasure do you believe in me? I believe you take money back America Seriously you Universal in China and the Hancock is the queue normally people I don't have money dude, even keel America. Also figure you money bears funny understand kills. Thank you Isaac pleasure Everybody figured that this was the end of the interview But before he left miles wanted to return to the chair and make one more very important point Okay miles one thing that I wanted to make sure we cover today is Something that's topical and newsworthy in literally this morning is the the head of Interpol among hung way as has gone missing and the official statement from Interpol says that they've they've named someone else to be the head of Interpol in in the interim and that they're going to make sure that the relevant authorities handle among hung ways Disappearance. Why do you think moong Hong way is missing in China a 1 years ago also I called in is the guy know whom we must be go to two-way jail and Kill, I want to go out in the YouTube. You said that a year ago and you? Said he goes to jail or he gets killed Yeah, there was a third actually there was a third thing that could have happened to him Yeah, if he what if he brought you back to China, yeah. Yeah, how do you be good? Yeah. Oh, yeah Also, the reason yesterday all the people talking to me told me is a mouse. Why is it right, you know rest the guy? One reason it because you don't stand the you back because they didn't he didn't get you didn't me, you know, send me back Right secondly him for me kill. I turn a one gem the chairman. See you Wait a second. Yeah. What are you saying? Exactly? Yeah, sir is the because Fagan reason the Together drawing with one chief and these are with whole buncha kill action a1 yet in the Palomas Improv on so you're saying you're saying that the head of Interpol? Might have had something to do with the death of the chairman of hn a.m. Come on Then sir, I wonder you look about is the french call. What is it? Ernie? Don't go down. How does he? The elderly then why The 110 times for the one they murder him I'm first the one only one a lot No, the kind others take a selfie guy is the one cheese and kill him who hope While everybody proboscis shut up shut up. Give me any tips any Videos new camera a new picture they disappear. This is threatening everybody. You're saying that all the surveillance is gone Yes account. We I stand a Three-team first time because there is rather than my team in the vacation you a you sent a team. Yeah of your security personnel Yep, all my New York NY p to Provence. Yeah, pro want to try to find the videos Yes and there no videos you new we do they all please take back this red all the people to shooting Interpol using a product of the videos Interpol and French Leafless lugu please why we listen to one chief fan Why do you two motor is the one one can wear you want to teach the theater everything? Why are you struggling in Twitter? Don't cock go back to China Recover the driver to meet anybody the target of flow ones. Please don't see any New York and my pity people this is a Immediately rest of my family go to jail. I really call me in the jail mouth You can never see Morimoto cooler ones and their meat I even talk more they won't kill me So they've told you that directly, it's already man. You've had so many times so You know, I have a sum of the recalled one day I could put out These threatened easy free. I mean why I want the first make person carvings in the nice man. You're gonna do a press copyright To me don't do this then no. It's a moon way. It's a big important guy. You will add to the present comments I put out the guy evidence him and maybe don't go back to China goo come America I see they won the political silent. These are the dangerous sea time, but he went back to China and now he's missing Yeah, they didn't know these they know these are you know moon moon ways friend. Okay. She's a friend Oh the rampway men together, you know we will yeah. Okay, so Why don't you sign smarta? See when Wendy the guy is a cool to America Cobre the Miss America CIA Because we'll have a first ECB. So is it Kobach? I have a big meeting rest. I see So this reason is he gone for for good all the family as your family? All the family is a respiratory arrest and for good. Yes These are the one years ago. I see the guy who only to wait Wow So there's a big big III the stories. These are these are hard so hard to believe Yeah from my perspective that that these things happen in broad daylight and no one in the press Understands this narrative, right? Reincarnation reincarnation and creamy skew many Normal people the lead wrestler too many people they make an interpreter too many good people including me Yeah, so this is the reincarnation also the CCP See as a mafia group. No, no human. Right, right No, you know version though they are you see you you have a rarity I use you. Even you threaten me kill jail No this happen. There's no money what I hope you're wrong. I hope you're wrong. Yeah about long Hong way I hope you're wrong about Jack my I hope you're wrong about these things Yes, you've been so right in the past that I wouldn't bet against you. So, thank you again miles. Thank you Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. Thank you