a while ago, I shared how to make tart crust. and the greatest thing about this tart crust is that you do not have to blind bake. meaning there's no need to bake twice with pie weights for any dessert. you just have to bake once. making this tart dough is extremely easy. it's probably the easiest tart dough recipe I've ever made. but I totally understand that the most about how to roll it thinly and evenly and today, I'm sharing how to make perfect tart since the last video, I got so many questions about tart cust. so i'm going to answer them at each step and also in the all right so first, in the bowl, add flour, powdered sugar, almond flour, and salt. mix roughly. this is optional. and add butter. cut into small cubes. and mix it at low medium speed until it gets very sandy. and this method is called sablage method. sablage means sandy in French, just like how it looks like. we're going to add eggs to it after this, but by rubbing the flour and butter like this and coting butter all around the flour, it creates a shield. and the liquids from eggs cannot connect with flour as much. the original recipe I shared required 1 and 1/2 eggs but upon request, today I'm sharing how to make it but I'm going to list both of them um so that you can pick. mix again until well combined. and that's it. it's super easy to make this tart dough. at the very end, check if it's evenly incorporated. i like to divide the dough in half because it's going to be so much easier to roll out the dough with a smaller amount. and now, it's important to chill the dough enough in the fridge and rest the glutens in flour to prevent the dough from shrinking too much in the oven or getting uneven. I recommend chilling at least 1 hour but ideally more than a few hours. and if you have a food processor at home, you can make it even quicker. add all the dry ingredients and the cubed and add eggs and continue pulsing until it's evenly combined. the dough is firm when it's completely chilled, so to soften it if it's necessary. and apply a thin layer of bread flour all around the tart dough so that it's not going to stick to the table and I like to use bread flour for this because it spreads more evenly and it doesn't get absorbed into the tart dough as much as when you're using cake flour or all-purose flour. start by gently pressing the dough like this just to and I try not to touch the dough directly because my hands are warm and I don't want to touch it to soften turn it 90deg and repeat this process until you feel it's softened enough. I always start from the middle and roll it upward and come back on the middle again and roll it downward. turn it 90deg, ensuring enough flour is applied on the working surface. dust more flour on the surface if needed and repeat the process. roll it upward and downward. it's important to add the same pressures from both hands to spread the dough evenly and roll it out into 2 - 3 mm. it might seems very very thin, but do not worry because the tart dough gets a little bit thicker after it's baked due to the eggs inside. with the thickness, the tart gets very lightly crispy, and I have to say it tastes so much better than a thicker crust. okay, so how I judge is.. when you insert your hands or dough scraper or something under, you should be able to see through the color slightly. and you can also use parchment paper to roll out the dough. the same steps and tips apply. so push the dough first. and roll it out after that. I still like to apply flour on the surface. it's kind of difficult to spread it very thinly, and and if it's needed, chill the dough to make it firmer and come back. now, I'm going to show you how first, I'm going to start with the most classic tart pan. and when you are using a large tart pan like this, I highly recommend chilling the dough. it's going to be very challenging to move the soft dough onto a large tart pan without breaking it. cut the excess dough all around. and roll it onto a rolling pin. quickly push the edge like this to drop the dough inside the pan because the dough gets easily cut off with the sharp edge. and next, fold the edge like this. this is extremely important. if the corner is not completely fit in and there's a space or gap between, the side of the dough slides down in the oven as it's baked. so fold one by one all around and create sharp corners. once it's done, press the side of the dough with thumbs to attach it to the pan completely and lean the excess dough over outward like this. and I'm going to show you two ways to cut roll it on the surface like this. and turn it 90deg. and do exactly the same thing. or you can use a knife or dough scraper. I personally really like this way because you can create a very sharp beautiful edge. as a final step, dock the surface with a fork. this is extremely important so that the bottom is not going to start rising up in the oven. when you are using a small tart pan, cut and place it on top of the pan on the very center. push the edge and drop the dough inside the pan. fold the edge. and push the side. or, for a smaller tart pan, I sometimes do differently. so take the edge of the dough and slowly curve it as you turn it like this. the dough slowly goes down as you do this with this method, you can create more beautiful surface without gathers on the side. the rest is going to be exactly the same as earlier. and push the side. cut off the edge. and dock the surface. and you can reuse those scrubs later. let's move on to the classic ring. dust flour inside the ring so that the dough is not going to stick to the table. and you can either push the edge to but in this way, you'll see more gathers on the side because the side of the tart ring is completely straight. so push the side really well to make the thickness even. or can do the second way I showed you earlier, after the dough is inside the ring, do exactly the same thing as earlier the next one is a perforated ring. the steam in the tart dough can get out from the tiny tiny holes while it's baked in the oven, which creates an even more beautiful surface. apply a thin layer of soft butter inside the ring. the tart crust comes out a little bit more easily by doing this. and I'm going to show you two ways to fit the dough in the ring. you can pick whichever you like. with the first way, attach the stripe on the side first. push the edge like this to connect them. and using a cake ring or cookie cutter, cut the circle which is a little bit smaller than the tart ring. and push the edge like this to ensure it's connected. and press the side with the thumb to attach it to the side all around. and next, cut off the excess dough. and dock the bottom with the fork if you are not using a silicone mesh mat. and with the second way, cut the dough with the ring. make sure that the edge touches the ring. and then, wrap the stripe on the side. push the side evenly with good pressure and ensure that the dough is attached to the ring. press the corner with good pressure so that you not going to see a huge gap between after the cust is baked. and you can do exactly the same way with the smaller perforated tart ring. and as a bonus, I wanted to test one more Let's test it out and see if it's actually good. so and I'm going to show you the result later, but and finally, let's bake all of them. it's very to rest the glutens in flour again. I personally use the freezer most often because it's more powerful. the baking time really and rotate the baking sheet or change when you're using tart rings, you can use I highly recommend getting a mesh silicon mat if you want to create the most beautiful-looking tart crust. you do not have to dock the bottom of the dough when using it because steam can gets out from the tiny tiny holes. now, the crust is more fragile when it's warm. so wait until it cools down. place a cookie cutter or tart ring, or something like that on a table. and place the tart pan to remove the side. and you could detach the bottom very easily by pushing the crust like this. if it's still attached, find a tiny gap between them and insert a small cake spatula between. and carefully slide it to detach them. with the tart ring, I find it easier to remove when the side is not fully covered like this, push it up to even out the thickness. do not attach the piece on top because it can snap more easily. and the same tip applies when the dough is too and also when the side looks really messy push it really well. and push it up to even out the thickness. when the crust is stuck to the ring, either the butter was not applied inside the ring, or it was not cooked enough. it was under baked. as you can see, the crust shrink tiny bit as there are two most common ways to make tart and one of them is today's sablage method. meaning rubbing butter and flour together to create the sandy texture. and the other one is called the creaming method. you cream the butter first and add flour to it later. with creaming method, you tend to whip the butter a little bit with a whisk and because of that, it contains more air in it. the air expand in the oven, which makes the crust a little bit more uneven and thicker. like I showed you earlier, wrap it tightly. and you can store it in the fridge or freezer. it's also possible to fit the dough into the tart pans or rings and freeze it. and bake them whenever you need them. you can store the crust at room temperature or in the fridge. I tend to add a silica gel in the container to soak but if you don't have it, you can actually bake them in the oven again, either at the same temperature or a little bit lower. and that is going to release unnecessary moisture out of the crust and it's going to bring back the crispiness again. work in a very cooling environment. but if the AC is not working, the best thing you could do is probably using parchment paper when you roll the dough. sandwich the dough with parchment paper and after you roll it, chill the dough, move fast to fit it into the tart pan. and also don't forget to chill them completely before baking. I hope you enjoyed the tutorial. if you did, please let me know. and if you made this tart crust, please let me know. and what kind of tart you made with this tart crust. thank you so much for watching. I'll see you in my next video.