When you think about it, a 25% tariff on I mean, Mexico is now become the number States, followed by Canada. highly, highly integrated, particularly, sort of already been touched on autos I mean, autos is one of those industries parts literally crossing the border developed into a car. of 25% on each one of those parts, each ends up becoming developed into a car, significant this idea of a 25% tariff on I mean, again, you think about it that countries is now in the order of $2 minute, you know, accounting for 10 trade. trading partners, again, with this tariffs, a trade tool, you know, again, something that is not particularly trade complaining about fentanyl or about, you issues, but yet using this tariff tool box and again from again many people's terror and certainly not just the Yeah. salvo? He's a negotiator. there so that perhaps, you know, his and give a good deal. Yes. be very, very transactional. for announcing it well before he's even I mean, he is clearly looking for and I to come to him with offers of things And I think you already heard a little going to say, which is why are you Canada, with respect to fentanyl and really not been the issue that the again, a flood across the border, coming And the issue is whether this is partly have them be treated differently. opening salvo of a negotiation to try to Again, it's a and the problem is a So, again, the bargaining will begin have to show in order to to demonstrate that would be acceptable in order to get Eli, let's bring you into the I mean, as Jennifer indicated, these are These are, you know, direct trading Does it change the calculation for you strategy now? So, look, President Trump is going right These are the three largest trading And I think we have to be really careful people's expectations. Trump's 2.0 so far is that it's good for And we've seen, you know, bond yields on Now, there's a limit to how much bond We've also got during the equity rally starts creeping up. Now we could see the ten year move And history shows us that if it goes problem for the equity uptrend that So this is something that we have to be As Linda, of course, this is ahead of It's also ahead of that December move. basis points. the Fed? on autopilot for the next 2 to 3 cuts I mean, they've just started rates. hasn't come on yet. wait and see on how the data comes in. minutes which saw, I think certainly They are watching out for how, you know, And again, if Trump's tariffs moves the they're not looking for, I think we to be a problem for markets. reaction in the dollar at the highest I mean, how concerning is debt is a That is a problem. and this a problem for Trump, too. We've heard that, which is why I think, Bessant as treasury secretary is is a Yesterday, in fact, I think we saw the nomination. And I think, you know, he has expertise going to be really instrumental in meeting had these tariffs but yet have Jennifer, we heard from Eli saying that Does trump understand how tariffs work? partners, it may come back to bite him Well, you know where he does not, because certainly he kept trail that it was China that was paying the tariffs, when obviously the reality paying the tariffs. these tariffs falls on the American And again, just to be clear on the with respect to these Mexican and bringing these in because these are Again, they're largely bringing in parts And so when our importers now have to components, it makes everything that expensive. over to what's going to happen with to add an additional 10% tariff on top I mean, to me, what's really significant additional tariff coming in from China. ready products that are sold at Walmart It's electronics. It's it's it's watches, it's appliances, Those have largely been spared from But now they are going to get hit by And again, a lot of that I think you're in terms of increases to consumers for things. And by some calculation, US imports I mean, Trump won the election on the squeezing most of the Americans. in the U.S. How might that impact growth going So I think it's going to have a very again, a lot of what's being imported just change at the last minute and say, from China, I'll buy it from somewhere Mexico because those component parts and tested and. by that particular American company that And they cannot simply immediately turn in from somewhere else. again, U.S. It will have an upward pressure on pressure on economic growth and We saw this when the Trump tariffs went steel, and then ultimately the tariffs from China. look at. And the goal stated goal was to return United States. do that? far has been no, because those tariffs steel and aluminum that there were job There was retaliation, again, heavily by example, of agriculture exports. exporting lost their jobs. date has been a negative one for the economy. these idea of increasing the tariffs, two largest trading partners, the effect downward pressure on U.S. And for China. This is an economy that's just Yet when it comes to the markets, you China, that you should be overweight. So that is largely a function of I mean, so much negative news have been Really the was 60% terrorist has been And I do think the Chinese authorities deal with what's coming. How can they counter this? quite a fair bit in terms of the They've tried to do a lot of local government financing as well. fiscal right. a dual track economy over the last One is focused on exports. Trump's terrorist club. side, now, they're struggling right now. holding in reserve fiscal policies to And with Trump's terrorist being counteract that when it comes. Sure. I think, you know, on the monetary side, That's going to probably more to come in inventory on the housing side as well. inadequate and frankly disappointing so terms of boosting consumption demand. in terms of business confidence as well, the first half of next year internally. you be buying right now when we see a What would you be buying? so probably more domestically focused, tariffs. earlier. excellent companies. right now. approach is really the quality you There are stable, growing companies that So we think they are still on a bottom A lot of attractive opportunities in Jennifer, before we let you go, what are and then down the trade war? So just to understand it, I mean, US's commitments. Canada and Mexico, we committed to these rules of origin qualifying as Similarly, we agreed within the WTO tariffs than those that were listed in So all of this violates the United partners, which means that Canada, rights at some level to challenge these retaliate. to to bring these challenges and to And the issue there is whether that's this tit for tat road, you know, again broader trade war, which has much more I mean, certainly if we don't see the have a hugely negative effect on the