(audience applauding) - Imagine opening a novel at a bookstore, or walking past a light post words of positivity on Words like, &quot;Change is coming or, &quot;In case you need a sign, It has the power to make a bad day better, just turn it around. That's the intention started by our next guest when And it's exactly the kind of Pilot Pen wants to shine a light on as part of their Erase Let's welcome the Random Note Come on y'all. (audience cheering and applauding) Thank you for joining us, yeah. I would love to be in a bookstore and find a little random note. That's just so, it's just a random act And this, unfortunately, actually, this was all kind of born for you of bullying, right? - It was, yes. So when I was seven years old, I was like every other kid, a lot of fun and then someone I trusted that was very hurtful and it basically said, &quot;You are not kind. You are not respectful. And you are not fun to be with.&quot; And it broke my heart. - Wow. - And so, you know, I went of my life feeling a lot and just really turning inward. And then I turned 14 and &quot;Okay, you're in high school. What do you wanna be when you grow up?&quot; And the only thing I could think of is I just want to be happy. I want to be like I was - Yeah, absolutely, and - Yeah, so I'm looking around and, you know, out in the who has the blueprint for who is really feeling it I was finding a lot of people who just felt like they were and I thought, &quot;Okay, I need - And what did you do? - All right, so you know, you're 14, you don't have a whole so what I did is I took what I have, a pen and a piece of paper. And I used to set up shop in the cafe at the local bookstore, and just cut the paper into scraps, and start writing the on those pieces of paper. And then sneakily tucking at the bookstore. So that when folks would buy a book, they would take it home and, hopefully, maybe - [Kelly] Yeah. - Yeah. (audience applauding) And you didn't need, That's what I'm saying. It doesn't take money to change the world. It takes kindness. - Exactly. - This is such a beautiful, but can really change the - Exactly, yes. - Yeah. So this grew from an anonymous So how so? - Right, so you don't go seven-year-old to changing And that's okay. - Yeah. - And for me, what that looked like is I was doing this on my through high school, through college, and then I graduated college, and I was leaving a bunch of notes through the city of Pittsburgh and they started replacing my that said, &quot;I found your notes. Now I wanna find you - [Kelly] Yeah. - Yeah, so I took the risk and they got back to me and said, &quot;This should be a movement. You need a website. You need some social media. Do this.&quot; And that inspired me. So I launched Random and created the Instagram the website, randomnoteproject.com. And it's through these channels and then when somebody finds a note, they can upload a photo of the note along with the story of what and share it. - [Kelly] So powerful. - [Gabrielle] So you can So, you know, if you're I don't know if I can make a difference, you get to see it in print there that you did make a difference. - Yeah, the direct impact. Oh, that's beautiful. So how many notes you think are out there from Random Note Project, how many? - Kelly, I have a confession. So I am in New York City - Yeah. - And as I was flying here, I And then yesterday I just found through the city of So anybody that's in New York It's scavenger hunt time because they are out - Challenge accepted. - Yes, yes. - I love this. - Yeah. (audience cheering and applauding) - It's such a beautiful thing. What's, like, your advice for others who wanna write random notes? - Yeah, well, okay, so, I have left tens of thousands of notes and that means that it's, you know, available for anybody else to do as well. If you want to write a All you have to do is think of the words that you have longed to hear, or words that have been helpful to you. Grab a pen, grab a piece of leave them wherever you go And it's that simple. Just add randomnoteproject.com so people know where to upload them. And you get to watch yourself make a difference in the world. - It's such a beautiful idea. You guys, if you wanna with Random Note Project, grab your Pilot FriXion of the &quot;Kelly Clarkson Show&quot; You can be the change you