It may not look like much, but the amount of strand of fiber the size of a human hair is Fundamentally, in like one fiber pair, half of the simultaneously. That's how much capacity is And so, it's so much more capable than all the Fiber-based networks make up the majority of the Fiber-optic subsea cables spanning thousands of data at nearly the speed of light. Meanwhile, the massive data centers that host all connections. Increasingly, fiber connections are providing them with fast, reliable internet. Fiber is future-proof, yes. And it's probably the best broadband technology To understand the technology behind fiber-optic changing, CNBC visited Corning's optical fiber Carolina. Most famous as the maker of Gorilla largest producer of optical fiber by as the largest manufacturer of fiber cable in We have fibers that were installed at the very they are still running today. Usually, the lifetime of a system is not the So the lasers that are transmitting the light or well before the glass will fail. From the time that we've invented fiber until now, of fiber manufactured and installed around the To put that in perspective, that is enough fiber But only 43% of U.S. households have access to a fiber internet In some instances, particularly in rural areas and prohibitively expensive to deploy fiber and it it. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that passed in divide, With $65 billion dedicated to expanding Such government support, along with a number of fiber products. Fiber-optic internet is a type of broadband Commission defines as any internet service, which per second and upload speeds of at least 3 Though, after seeing the importance that internet argue that this definition needs to be changed. If you've ever shopped around for an internet different broadband connections. DSL or Digital Subscriber Line, delivers internet Cable services use the same coaxial cable for In more remote areas where DSL or cable are not or satellite internet. But by far the best internet connection available Unlike DSL and cable, where data is transmitted signals, in fiber, data is usually transmitted the form of light pulses. Copper is a metal and that can degrade with time. That doesn't happen with a material like glass. Also, optical fiber is extremely strong material You can make a knot with it and it's not going to It doesn't suffer any interference for So it's a more robust material, it's more capacity, much more bandwidth. You can put much, much more data into an optical Fiber-to-the-home can give consumers much higher and the sky's the limit. It's limited by software more than hardware. Transmitting data in the form of light is not a a problem. Impurities in the glass cause the as it traveled down the length of the fiber, a The British post office came to us with a people. And it just happened to be a race that we In 1970, Corning came up with an optical fiber sent over massive distances with minimal signal In 1983, New York and Washington, D.C. became the first major cities in the world to be link. The anatomy of a single optical fiber looks A core made of ultra-pure glass is surrounded by signal and traps it inside the core as it moves Both layers of glass are then encased in a Dozens to hundreds of these optical fibers are cable. We need a glass that is orders of magnitude more So it's a totally synthetic process. What we do, we mix a combination of different chemical reaction and we generate soot particles. So very tiny little particles of soot glass or rod. From there, the resulting rod, known as a preform, white, porous material is transformed into an The newly formed glass is then heated and core of the optical fiber. Then steps one and two are basically repeated at that's used to trap the light signal. Finally, a protective layer is added to insulate large spools. The finished optical fiber is either shipped out other facilities, where it's bundled into a cable The telecom boom of the late 1990 and early 2000 sought faster voice and data transmissions. But this demand quickly dried up with the burst When the internet bubble burst, which you could relative to what the demand was. And so then that led to a relatively bleak demand But now demand for fiber optic connectivity is In Q2 2022, Corning disclosed that the optical revenue, reaching sales of $1.3 billion, a 22% Meanwhile, experts estimate that the global fiber If you look back over time, we've actually been growing at a compound annual growth rate into Corning says that the government push for fiber company's demand for fiber-optic products. Demand is so high that it's even caused a global The biggest economic challenge to deploying supply chain disruptions as a result of the Covid And that affects everything on the line from the resources to deploy systems. And so we're seeing that projects that would have years now in order to fully deploy. Corning is also feeling the crunch. Can Corning currently keep up with demand for both The answer on fiber is yes. The answer on cable is not yet, but we're working So on the cable side, it's a regional business the entire industry is constrained. We saw that coming a couple of years ago. And in fact, the factory you're sitting in right now. We have one phase of expansion underway and And you're sitting here today seeing that. Across the street, we have our next phase that It'll be ramping up towards the end of this year The company has also said it will open an optical service the European market. Experts point to several factors feeding this The first is the pandemic, which made it clear social equity providing access to education, Typically, internet traffic grows about 25% per year of the pandemic, we saw it double to 50% for The expansion of 5G is also driving demand for Many rural customers are turning to wireless available. To achieve the quality of service demanded by 5G, and every single one of those antennas has to be required. While telecom providers like Verizon, AT&amp;T and fiber-optic products, big tech companies, increasingly buying a bigger share. If you look at a hyperscale data center, which is applications, the amount of fiber in just one what it would take to do fiber-to-the-home In recent years, tech giants like Google, Meta, building their own subsea fiber-optic networks. Subsea fiber-optic networks were traditionally companies, usually telecom providers like AT&amp;T These companies would then lease bandwidth to the capacity on existing networks rose and the tech decided it makes more sense to build their own. Experts say that the majority of long-haul In the case of subsea fiber cables, which connect cost hundreds of millions of dollars and take The process requires surveying vessels and the cable along the sea floor. As the cable approaches the shore, it's buried in human activities. Most long-haul terrestrial fiber cables, which But some connections, especially last mile can also be installed aerially on poles, which is Internet service providers are usually in charge last-mile connections that have been especially where the addressable market is small and doesn't provider. When you get to these more rural applications, at case for private industry to invest in those And so I think government stepping in and having right way for companies like Corning and all of partners to build the network that everyone Experts say the biggest cost in deploying fiber is itself. Anywhere between 60 and 80% of the cost of a You need labor. You need to have the ability to go in and shut The sector also faces labor shortages. It's projected by 2025 to do all the broadband There's a need for 1.5 million installers. Currently, the industry has 650,000, so that's a To help bridge this gap, Corning, along with AT&amp;T, network specialists. Meanwhile, others like Meta are working on Despite recent investment in fiber deployment, the Still trails other areas of the world in fiber Fiber adoption in North America and particularly than in markets such as Europe and Asia Pacific Overall, Europe and Asia, we have seen over 50% By comparison, only about 21% of U.S households The majority subscribed to cable internet, which Early adoption of cable TV and cable broadband key role in the lagging of fiber deployments and Since early days, consumers in the United States were very quick in rolling out their networks major cities. And they were also one of the first Jurkevic says that part of the delay in U.S. fiber deployment stems from the strong political About 18 states have some kind of hurdles for and offer services. Some of these restrictions can include pricing, that are lower than incumbents' prices. So there is no incentives for consumers to be Or, for example, in some areas, if there is even offer their own services. And that single provider could be a very, very In contrast, Europe has leveraged municipal particularly across the Nordic countries Sweden, Another factor contributing to the low fiber may be the sheer size and geography of the It's much easier to connect Singapore, which is a people live in an apartment buildings compared to Despite the challenges, experts believe that fiber some of the other solutions available because the If you look at one example of recent development Billion to develop, and peak capacity on this That's covering the globe. If you look at just one fiber-optic cable, for launched transatlantic, that cable has 250 than the entire Starlink system. And when you look at the cost, the entire cost within the next two years is a fraction of the So satellite is terrific for reaching these But the impetus to get fiber to everyone has more cost effective and so much better in terms users. There's no comparison. I think more and more people are realizing that Eventually, fiber networks are going to be needed And if you're looking at the long term, once you capacity. So it's a really valuable asset once For now, many Americans still don't have the that will change. All the subsea networks are fiber. All the long-distance networks are fiber. All the metro ring networks are fiber. And the last segment of the network to really central point out to everyone. And so over time, we believe, say over the next