Today is going to be an epic fight, taking 450 pilgrims on the 747 behind me. A MASSIVE OPERATION We're in a situation here. Feeling blotted and short of breath. Maybe it's first time if Maybe first time Why they change to the white group? For many, many years they've been waiting for this journey. All eyes will be focused on this pipeline. Here we got the crew of our 747, say hi! So today's a hodge flight. It's very different to a normal passenger flight. I don't think anyone has documented one. Our crew has just arrived and now they're preparing to load the baggage, load the food and also refueling the plane and we're ready to go. So, I was told there are about 450 pilgrims will join on today's flight, and lots of them are really seniors in their 80s and 90s. Some of them are first time flying on an airplane. Going 10 hours to Jeddah, that's remarkable. So it's interesting that everyone has a standard suitcase, some with the photos and their names, and this is coming from the ministry. If you go to Hajj, you have a set of baggage. I noticed they don't have a boarding pass. But she has a number in the in the Document. They have a number, so they know where they're sitting. They'll just look for the number. Documents. Yes. Number so they know Are they sitting number? Yeah, just look Number yeah blue in the right side and uh if the number uh red is the left side The Harshfly have a unique seating system. They just gave you a number instead of 21 delta 33 kilo you just have a number so It sits here, 060, 059. So when the pilgrims board, they've already been explained, so they know where exactly to go to. Pretty smart, instead of, you know, first time flying and exploring and waste a lot of time. See you next time, thanks! Thank you, thank you, going to aviation, everything, first time. Peace. Pakistan. Bye. Wow, first time hutch First on 740 First 9-7-4-7. Yeah. Good morning ladies and gentlemen, my name is Vitaly, I'm captain on flight Garuda Indonesia 4119. Today with me my valuable colleague Anton. Client. And we are gonna fly from Jakarta to Jeddah Expecting flight time roughly is nine hours. We're expecting weather to be smooth. And we are going to fly initially flight level 340, then step climb to 370. So this is the upper deck, I think you look familiar with you. This one has the original Singapore Airlines SkyBed Suite. came out of factory in Boeing 2001 and Singapore retired in 2012 and they continue to fly. So it has this first generation of slopey flatbed. And today, actually there are Hajis also in business class. Let me just close the door and see what I'm wearing. Give me a Garuda Indonesia jacket. I look like an official now with this purple vast. Okay. The engine just started And all the pugils started chanting. It's quite amazing. It's very different to a normal flight. Yes, we are ready, we are cleared for push and start, November Charlie 7, phase 2 November Charlie 7, and power break is set now. Okay, pushback clear, November Charlie 7, break release. Brakes released and we are ready for start engines. Yes sir! Yes, sir. Engine area clear for starting. For texting guys only call after break. That's your play controls I think you can allow me to pay a car for taxi, remove steering pin and give me visual signal from convenience side, have a good day, thank you. N411R, Departure, good day and climb 5000ft as I did. N411R, climb FL280. Continue climb 280, N411R. So we are about one hour into flight. We have a situation here. There was a patient. A harsh pilgrim not feeling well, so he's laid flat. on the pit of wall cedar. And there's actually a doctor and nurse from the whole group of pupils. I'm looking after the peel grips. I actually, uh, not feeling well as well. Um, I think I got food poisoned earlier. I have this sick feeling in my stomach and it come and goes, come and goes. So, uh. Lucky when I got to the 747 early at boarding, my energy spiked. But now, I just want to settle down and take some rest. Feeling blotted and short of breath from poisoning for sure. Luckily I came to the rear of the 747, there's a couple of spare rows, I can lay flat and just start to feel better, it's definitely not a usual flight for me. I really want to cover all the exciting stuff, what the crew does on the hatch flight, but First I just not feel well right now. I just need to get some rest Without an answer, do you want to eat beef with yellow rice? May I open your table? Thank you. It's kind of tough because when you have food poisoning, you just don't have appetite to eat anymore. Especially the fry stuff, the greasy stuff. Don't want to touch it. All I could have is some plain rice and some juice. So I'm in the galley here. You see all the cabin crew on this flight. They're from Garuda, but they're wearing a different uniform. Abaya, like Abaya is only used for high flight only because we are Destination is like Madinah, Makkah. That's why we use all abaya. That's for hijab fighter. But you're wearing the orange scarf Yes, we are all wearing orange scarves, my friends do. Yeah, and the green one and orange is for senior and junior, and purple is for mate meeting happy, and the blue one for person. You guys are contractor, you only work on hatch flight. The Rudy Divici Implosion. You don't operate normal Baruta Indonesia blockade. Yes. So how many... So how many months do you work? We only work for two months in Garudinusya for high flight only. And H-Flight is always memorable flight for us as a flight attendant because H-Flight is a national event in Indonesia and all eyes will be focused on this H-Flight. That's why we always coming back again and again for H-Flight. It's prestigious. What does she think? But you just worked two months. Yeah, it's been two months. Yeah, it's for two months, but it's honorable! But other than that, what do you do other 10 months? In other words, I work as a freelancer to drive minds and others. So good news that I found my energy back after lunch got some more sugar from the juice I want to talk about the hatch operation. It was really A massive operation, airlift operation for pilgrims to go to Saudi Arabia. In one month's time, Indonesia transported 200,000 pilgrims by airplanes. Here, I found Christina. Christina is from Aquiline International, who owns the 747. She's in Makassar, operating a month. I want to hear from her. So yeah, I've been stationed in Bakusar for one month. And it's a very intricate process of how everything works on the ground and on board. The most interesting part is when the passengers arrive. So, we don't have a sleeve that is connected to the airplane. We have buses that directly bring the passengers to the plane, and then we have... The staff takes out their luggage and lights them up in front of the buses. The luggage has the passengers' faces on it and numbers, so it's very easy for them to find it. And then we have people with flags waving at them to tell them to proceed to this entrance of the plane so they don't get confused. Super organized. And actually I'm so honored to be a part of this mission because it's... It's always nice to know that you're helping people achieve something that means a lot to them. I thought it is cool to mention that this 747 was in storage from 2015 to 2022. It was grounded for seven years after previous operator TransAero went bust. So it is truly a miracle to see her flying in the sky again. My name is Anton. So, the concern now was the flight on flight level 360. You can see that after the takeover cattle is a small, the turbulent zone over the Internet. But after the international zone, we kept the super long zone over the Colombo. Now, we are going over the position of Mumbai FAR. The turbulent zone over Mumbai, what's the pattern now? But you look on the outside the weather really is nice But until all the destination weather will be the good. Thank you so much Maybe it's worst time. Maybe first time, even they went inside, they don't know how to lock the door. The door. I had lots of people on the first time flying in an airplane. So let alone first time using an aeroplane bathroom. So she's been helping, like helping them because they don't know how to lock the door. And some of them may not even know where the toilet bowl is. So they have to wash the toilet, clean the toilet. How many times have you been done it? I think more than... 20? 30? I think you've done a lot because I've been watching and she's been helping everyone. I look really weak, compared to most of the pilgrims. Um, I couldn't eat all the food on the second meal. Which is a beef rendang with rice or chicken with rice? Oh it has a bit of poutine. A little bit of bread and I'm feeling tired and feeling just not well in my stomach. And most of the pilgrims I would imagine, it's one of the first time they fly on a long haul flight like this. for 10-hour flights, and they're eating well, they're behaving well, they're extremely quiet, and now we're just about two hours to land. It's like a snack box for takeaway For Thank me Well, we are now already entering Saudi airspace. I believe this we see the desert landscape changed And look at them, they change, they dress like this. You're ready for Hodge Ready to go to Macca. Tonight? Tonight you'll reach Mecklen. It will be a very emotional time, I think, for all the pilgrims here. Perhaps you know this better than me. Why they change to the white groups? This is called ikhraq and for the religious for religious progress. Lose your purpose. If you apply the HATS now, maybe your implementation to HATS will take 30 years. You have 30 years waiting list to hot I'm ass-waiting his head. You paid $25,000,000 first deposit. Yeah. Yeah And wait for 30 years. Yeah In another 30 minutes, I want to make announcement about the maker. Can you tell us what is Meatcourt means? Mekot is a starting point place for start Umrah or Hajj. For Indonesia, Mekot is Yalamlah. And we have 30 minutes now. Yes. To the Starting point of hatch. Hello, Dilucan 411A, Raja Dafaana Direct, radar contact, video speed 170 knots, and we're good to go. We'll call you back for low shortly. Indonesia 4119, descend 6000 feet, feed localizer only runway 34L, standby for ride list. Indonesia 4119, localizer established, runway 34L. Russian 4119, roger that, descend 2500 feet, cleared for altitude 234, left stand by for frequency change. Tower, good day, Russian 4119, request establish runway 34L, speed 170, 5 knots, call now to runway. Indonesian 4119, runway 34L, cleared to land runway 330, 120 Runway 34L, cleared to land Indonesia 4119, thank you Airbus A330-EFB, can you read you 4-1-1-9, double-check near ground, runway 34L, Airbus A330-EFB. I say it myself, double check, let it land. Say, let it land. Let it land. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye. See you. See you. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Thank you. See you. Bye-bye. Thank you. Thank you. Have a nice hot. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Have a good Hajj. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Bye-bye, bye-bye. That was great. I would love the kindness from you. Thank you. And I've never seen someone so patient, like, you know, the heart flight for all the pilgrims. This is amazing. Really, I can feel like it's coming from the bottom of your heart. Like, you know, like. Autopilgrim It's such a happy ending, isn't it? It just made me feel amazing. Seeing people happily arrived. For many, many years they've been waiting for this journey. Now they're here Taking all the trash out, wow. That's awesome. 450 people, that's a lot! Oh, you already recycled. Yeah. Paper and a pen. Yeah, paper in the paper. Whoa. Yeah, we took a break. Oh, yeah, we separate the cover and all the threads. Extra work. Extra work for you, yeah. So these are used unused Uh, I'm here to- Unused Who's around? With the completion of our flight, that concludes the stage 1 of the Hajj, bringing over 109,000 Indonesian pilgrims to Saudi Arabia on Garuda Airlines. It was an absolute honour and privilege for me to join them on this flight. I experienced some of the most amazing human kindness from all the passengers and the crew. It was an experience to remember for a lifetime. I wish them a safe journey ahead.