- Fox number one. So, that is me, locked And that is a very special We're testing whether the fox likes me, because it's actually bred to And, in that moment, I'm really I'm just minding my own business. Exotic pets are weirdly compelling, especially on social media. They're like a glimpse where we domesticated raccoons But, they're not really domesticated. Animals like cats, dogs, horses, pigs, we bred them for to live alongside humans. Exotic pets are hand raised, but they're basically still wild animals with maybe one exception. (soft music) We drove up into the to meet a very few rare animals. They're foxes that are born without any built-in fear or They wag their tails at They're very curious about you, though they are a little camera shy. There's nothing quite like them. Aww, I got a lick, I got a lick. We're visiting Amy and David Bassett at their Canid Education It's sort of an interactive zoo built to introduce the The Bassetts got them as pets, but not from an exotic pet breeder. They're the result of a nearly 60-year long Russian science experiment. Victor, sit, sit, good fox, good fox. It all traces back to a Soviet geneticist named (speaks foreign language) In the 1950s, (speaks foreign that was radical for its time, that domesticated animals like dogs are friendly to people because of genes that govern their behavior. Meaning, the process that tens of thousands of years There were friendliness as they adapted to live alongside humans. These foxes exist because of the way (speaks foreign language) tested his idea. In 1959, his team began at the Institute of Cytology and Genetics in remote (speaks The criterion was simple. The foxes that showed the when approached by experimenters The less friendly foxes weren't. They selected the next and the next generation, (speaks foreign language) died in 1985, but the work continued and by 2004 nearly 70% of the foxes had reached an elite level of friendliness. By some measures, they which is how a few years back two dog lovers found - We had absolutely no idea. They're very cheeky, very chew and tear everything apart. - [Host] David and Amy currently own five of the only 10 or 15 foxes in the United States. They cost around $9,000 all the way from Siberia and they came with a learning curve. - We learned quickly that they So, they will poop and pee everywhere. So, it's not very easy to have them in your kitchen, say, when they jump on the counters and poop. - [Host] The Bassetts have since adjusted to life with foxes, but they've learned that being being man's best friend is another. - While they are certainly tame, they're fascinating they're still foxes and you don't make a dog, you Anymore than when you domesticate - [Host] So, (speaks recreate the dog, but for anyone studying how wolves evolved into dogs, the foxes might still represent a behavioral stepping stone. - [Host] Clive Wynne is at Arizona State. He studies the unique relationship and the way that dogs go above and beyond simple friendliness towards humans. - [Host] Accord to Clive, hyper-social dogs emerged from and no one's really sure how it happened. - [Host] But, the (speaks might offer a clue. Clive and his team have a simple test to see how far along the foxes are on their path to doghood. And they told us how to carry it out. So, the experiment is really simple. I have a one-meter radius circle all the way around me and they're gonna bring into this enclosure. The idea was to see the foxes would spend inside my circle. We tried first with the three (speaks foreign language) foxes and one-by-one they and then relaxed somewhere else, which has been Clive's - [Host] For comparison, that was hand-reared by It never set foot inside the radius and it never relaxed. And, for a final I gotta ignore you for two minutes. Afterwards, we got to spend some more time with the (speaks foreign language) foxes and they were completely tame with us, just not so friendly. Clive and the Bassetts suspect that this is because of their They were bred for but then barely socialized as youngsters, and that's important, too. - [Host] Clive and his team behavior to build out a roadmap But, locked inside each of one that might help explain - [Host] Anna Kukekova is a at the University of Since 2002, she's been collaborating with the institute in Her goal is to reach the absolute core of the fox experiment, the specific genes involved And a few weeks ago, she and in Nature, Ecology, and Evolution that made a lot of progress. - [Host] Anna's research is valuable, because it directly compares the genes of wild and domesticated foxes. We can do that with wolves and dogs, but we can't infer as much about it. As dogs evolved, friendliness just wasn't the only trait that mattered. For example, they also So, we can see which genes but it's harder to know whether those really are behavior genes. On the other hand, there that (speaks foreign friendliness towards humans. So, here it's a little easier to associate behavior with DNA. - [Host] This is such a big deal, because there's a lot of So, these genes that Anna found, they could help us across the board. And, given that, it's gene editing tools to domesticate entirely new animals in the lab, maybe. - [Host] But, back in reality, where does that leave the foxes? They're still being but they're also trickling which puts them in a strange no-man's land between a wild animal and a companion. They were not created and they're certainly not dogs now. But, if you know to look for it, there's a hint of something - You take the short they'll come to you. If you're open to it and What's the significance who just came to you for comfort and that's kind of what in order to bond with a fox. It's these small moments that have huge significance to them. (soft music) - So, one thing we didn't even though (speaks foreign for friendliness, there were a lot of physical changes to the foxes, too. Their coats were different, even their skulls changed. It's called domestication syndrome and you should read about