We are on Coron Island in the Philippines and we are staying on our own private houseboat. In this episode, we're going to take you on a tour of our magnificent houseboat which is located in a hidden lagoon. I cannot believe this is where we are staying. Join us on our private boat tour! Where we swim in the most stunning lakes and snorkel in crystal clear waters alongside colorful fish. Huft, that was a real buzz. But the highlight is the famous Twin Lagoons. Check out this water. Philippines, you definitely have the most turquoise water. This place is literally paradise. That's our houseboat right there. I'm so excited. Oh my God, we're gonna have So excited. Welcome to our own private houseboat. This place is crazy. There are 14 houseboats in this lagoon. We're staying on one of the new glass houseboats. So, the first area I'm going to show you is the dining area that we have here. It's got little lanterns and a fan, a lovely cozy place to sit and have breakfast or lunch. Really looking forward to using this space. Also comes with our own filtered water over there. Such a beautiful spot. And over here we have a beautiful, huge deck that's looking over the entire lagoon. Say hello, Ella. We also have a kayak here, so really Okay, we have another seating area. We have to be really careful because It's so beautiful just sitting and looking at the vegetation and the beautiful limestone landscape. It's such a nice cozy place to sit I'm going to take you into the first bedroom. Oh my gosh. What an amazing place to wake up in the morning. Look at this view. The houseboat has wi-fi, but they also give you this small iPad. So, that you can WhatsApp the reception There's also a walkie talkie as well. So, if there's any problems with the internet, you can always contact the Lots of storage here, a full length mirror. There is air conditioning as well, but there is a small charge for this one because I have to run a generator for So, there's one there and one over here. So, you have to be really careful not to fall in. I was rolling the suitcase before and the suitcase almost went into the lagoon. There are these glass sliding doors that completely close. So, later on when the mosquitoes come out, But it's beautiful with these glass doors because in the morning when we wake up, So, plenty of space here for your luggage and for storage. More storage over here and a spot to put a small suitcase. And this is the bathroom. Okay, let me show you what we have in here. There is a shower on this side. And then over here, we have a marine toilet. So, this is the marine toilet. I never thought I would call a toilet cute, but it actually is quite cute. You have to switch this button across to make the water run. Then you do your business. Then you need to stop the water. And then you do some of these ones. Oh, and try not to splash it everywhere, of course. And then it sucks it down into the tanks below the houseboat. And they don't let any of it out into the lagoon. It all gets taken away by these small boats that come along and they get rid of all the waste water I don't know where, but they take it somewhere else. Let's go see the other side. So it's... almost identical to the other side. Have the seating area here. Follow me. Again, you have to watch your step. Okay. And we have this really cute dining space over here. It's a bit bigger than the one on the other side and it's got really cute lanterns and it's got a fan too. And we have another area for just lazing about and relaxing and just enjoying the surroundings. This is seriously a pinch myself moment. I cannot believe that I'm here right now. This place is so beautiful and It looks just so inviting. Oh, we have another kayak. and an outdoor shower. And from anywhere, you can pretty much just jump in. See, it even tells you. It actually says here, jump. So definitely gonna do that a little bit later. I can't wait to take a dip. They've recommended not to swim at night because there's a lot of jellyfish around in this area. And at night when they have the lights on, So, we have to be really careful of the jellyfish at night. So, no swimming at night. Okay, come with me. Show you the next bedroom. Welcome to the master suite. So, we have lovely bed. And again, what a gorgeous view. Oh my gosh. This side's a little bit more private The other side, you're obviously open to the full lagoons. Okay, and we have more storage. More storage here. Plenty of place to put your luggage, and there's an identical bathroom to the one next door, complete with marine toilet, a shower, and two wash basins. This is one pretty spectacular view. I have a beautiful view of the lagoon plus Coron Town on Busuanga Island, all from my bedroom. Like, that's crazy. Our lunch has just arrived by boat. Hi. What a cool service. Hello. Currently having chicken in a coconut sauce and oh my gosh, it is delicious. Absolutely amazing, Exactly what I felt like. There's not much else to say, it's just really good. Come on. Ella was getting a little hangry before. So, I'm really happy that she's eating right now because she's a little scary when she's hangry. Casper and I having grilled fish with rice and broccoli and we also have this delicious stuffed squid. It's stuffed with all types of vegetables. Oh my God, I actually don't know how we take her out sometimes. It's a little bit of a worry. Yeah, so looking forward to digging in. Now you're probably wondering, how do you get to this paradise of an island? Well, the easiest way is to take a flight It only took us about 40 minutes. So, we then got picked up from the airport and taken by a van down to a harbour, which was approximately half an hour's drive. We then jumped into a speed boat and it took us about 20 minutes So, a few steps to get here, but definitely well worth it. We had such a fun time swimming in the lagoon. It was crazy how many fish and corals It was also a great spot for kayaking. We are going on a boat tour around Coron Island. We're gonna explore some of the lagoons and lakes. So, the boat people have just picked us up now and we're gonna go on our private boat and start exploring. The water here is so turquoise, it's absolutely beautiful! I don't think I've ever seen water this clear before. Just on our way to Layangan Lake and we've Oh my gosh, check out the lagoon behind me. It is so blue. Wow, that water. We are at Kayangan Lake and it is brackish water, So, 70% fresh water, 30% salt water They have these beautiful rock formations and there's fish and the water is just so clear and turquoise.. It is absolutely beautiful. We are here before 9 o'clock. 9 o'clock is the time when all the So, I guess that's the benefit of staying on Coron Island is that we're so close to sites like this So, we can come early before all the tourists come. Oh my gosh, the water is absolutely beautiful. It is perfect. Oh my gosh, it is so nice and it's so clear. I can just see these cute little shells on all the rocks and these little fish swimming around. But yeah, the temperature, it is exactly how I love water. It's so nice and warm. You can see I'm carrying this lovely orange life vest. So, it's mandatory when you swim in the lakes here. That you have to bring the life vest with you. Oh yeah, that's so nice. Nice temperature. Okay, one, two, three. So lovely, isn't it? - So pretty. Wow. I feel like we look a bit white. A bit of a tan, I think. We have just arrived at our next stop, It looked really cool actually coming into docking the boat. There was this rock wall you could see, and basically on the other side of that rock wall, That's where you find the lake. Not as much of a boardwalk along this lake, So, it's a little bit more cramped than the other lake. The sun is just starting to come out It's shining on the water, making it so turquoise. This particular lake is actually really deep and it is so clear that you can actually Oh my gosh, I love being out on the boat. It's where I feel most alive. So yeah, it's bringing me back to my childhood. I love being out on the water. We are heading now to Coral Garden, which I think is a reef. So, we might go and do some It's a bit bumpy today, but it's absolutely beautiful. This landscape is stunning. These karst landscapes remind me a little bit of Ha long Bay or a little bit like Prana Bay in Thailand. So, it's quite a nice spot to go snorkeling. There are both soft and hard corals down there, and there are quite a few fish. That was very nice. Saw some beautiful corals, some cute fish. very refreshing, perfect water temperature too. I hate water that's too hot or too cold, so it's perfect. I haven't done snorkeling like that in a long time. That was so beautiful. Often when I go snorkeling, I feel pretty underwhelmed because and there's not many fish, but that was beautiful. There was this big blue coral. It was absolutely gorgeous and so many fish. That was a real buzz. I'm so not graceful at all. We just got to this beautiful beach, so we're just gonna lie and relax The water is so beautiful. You have the rocks in the background, and then the beautiful crystal blue water. And I also like the look of the Filipino boats. I don't really know what they're called. It kind of looks like a type of catamaran. I really like the look of those boats. They look really cool. I know we've probably said it a lot of times throughout the vlog, but can we just like have a moment How turquoise is this water? I've never seen water this turquoise. Philippines, you definitely have the most turquoise water. There's actually no soil on this island. So it's basically one big, beautiful rock. For the locals, this isn't so good because they can't get any income from So their main source of income is fishing. Also, there's no fresh water on the island. So, they have to get their resources We would definitely recommend doing this tour. It has been absolutely beautiful. We just arrived at the famous twin lagoons and there's such a lovely boardwalk here. It looks a little busy up ahead, We're currently at the first lagoon and you can only enter the second lagoon via kayak. So, we can see lots of people kayaking Behind me you can actually see there's a bit of a shelf and then it just drops and it looks really really deep. The color of the water completely changes This place is literally paradise. I know we keep talking about this water all day long, but we just cannot get over how beautiful, It is absolutely stunning. And these rock formations, wow. It is really, really beautiful, absolutely spectacular scenery. We're heading back to our houseboat now. We're gonna go and have some lunch, and then we might take a bit of a dip and yeah, just relax. I cannot believe this is where we are staying. It is in the most beautiful location. It's so crazy how we can literally It looks like lunch is arriving. We've just come to the main reception and it is absolutely gorgeous. It is set in a lagoon, so there are cliffs on either side and absolutely gorgeous views all around. There's an upper and lower deck and if you come over here There's also seating and sunbeds So, you can just jump straight They have a bar and they have a tour desk I have Jayam here with me. He's from one of the local tribes here on Coron Island. So, I just want to ask you a little bit about the tribes and how many people work here at Paolyn. 204 staff, but 20% is from the local town. 80% is from the tribe. Okay, so 80% of people that are working How many members are still a part of the tribe? Almost 3,500 population live here in Coron Island. So all of that is a tribe. Okay, that's amazing And what opportunities has Paolyn A lot of opportunities from Paolyn, like especially work, scholarship for go to school, Yeah, okay, wow. So, it's made a big difference in your life. Yeah? Before, I don't know how to drive the speedboat Now so I the captain of the Paolyn Houseboat. and also i speak a little bit English, I think he speaks really good English, So, awesome. But it was really nice to meet you, and Sp, thank you for visiting the little paradise of the Coron island and thank you for choosing the Paolyn House - Yeah, thank you so much! - Thank you, thank you so much. Please like and subscribe and follow and share. - Yes. We've had an amazing time here on Coron Island and we definitely recommend Paolyn Houseboats. Okay, that's it for this video. Don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel. So, that you don't miss out on any See you next time on Living the Jo Life! Caught my hair, aaaaahhh! There you go. This is from Coron town, which is the other island of... I want to say Burrawanda Island? Burrawanda Island? What's the island name? - Busuanga I knew something kind of exotic sounding. Oh my god. Just as I went to step up, the whole platform just moved. We also have a stuffed squid here. All right, I'm going to show you. Take a look at that big boy. - Yummmmm Oh, I just dripped squid juice all over the table. How are my eyes looking, by the way? - Pandery. - Do you see that? It was worth it.