(groovy music) - For more than 50 years, Toyota has been the go-to simplicity and reliability. When compacts from Detroit like breaking down at random times, overheating or catching on fire, the Toyotas just work. And it's not because they had or because they were So why? Why are Toyotas so reliable? Today, we're going to look that Toyota prevails over the competition, how their philosophy is different from American and European manufacturers, how their mindset produces on the planet, and how you That's right, you can be Big old thank you to Skillshare Let me tell you, I do not miss the days of sitting in classrooms like this one, listening to the I'm not interested, and seeing I got a 2.0 in high school. What can I say? I'm a hands-on learner. Skillshare is an online learning community where millions have come together to expand their creativity. They offer literally that will fit into anyone's schedule. Say I want to learn more about filmmaking. We got all kinds of classes for that, like Cinematography Maybe I want to expand my guitar skills so I can end up here. (chuckles) Whoa, that'd be pretty cool. Maybe I'm trying to find Hey, don't judge. Knitting is calming. Or so I hear, I have No matter what creative path you're on, Skillshare has a class to help and use these skills in real life. And guess what? You can take as many classes as you want and it's only 10 bucks a month. So what are you waiting for? Expand your creativity today. And the first 1000 people to will get a free trial of Now let's get back to it. I'm going to figure this out. I just want to start off by saying that this is not an advertisement for Toyota. They're not paying us We're just fans of them, and what they do. Toyota is successful for so many reasons, but their philosophy on are what set them apart. One of the main principles of the Toyota production system or TPS, is jidoka, which based on the from watching Initial D, translates to automation The way jidoka works is that and every component starts off hand-built. Think about that. Toyota engineers build each until it's perfect. Then automated assembly until the engineer can be Then, and only then, does it become part of Now for other manufacturers, Most manufacturing processes from the very beginning. This means the parts can and then assembled on the production line. Toyota's process is a slow one for sure, but it ensured that the parts work, and that they fit together, and that the engineers fully Toyota only does this for new which is why they use so across multiple models. That's also why Toyota doesn't Parts bins aren't anything new, it's just that Toyota simple parts for their bin. The more customization and the more parts they have to build. And maybe they've got to find a new way to make that part fit, for getting the two pieces to match up. Jidoka can snowball really quickly. Because of this, Toyota reuses especially the parts that work well. Toyota's 2GRFE was a simple V6 engine that's made its way into the RAV4, the Sienna, and the Venza, and the Lexus RX 350, and the Corolla Super GT. A race car. Other companies reuse parts as well, but it's mainly a way to keep costs down. In a weird way, every 'cause Toyota spent so building the parts. Do you want to see what happens from the ground up? Take a look at the LFA. If you want to know more check out the Bumper To (engine revving) It may not be the most but it's how Toyota has of reliability, not just in a few models, but across the entire dang brand! The Toyota production system have been adopted by Next time you go down to Chipotle, take a look at their assembly process. That's how Toyotas are made. (funky music) Kind of. But Toyota's not going because of their guacamole. Seriously, 2.30 for guac? Come on. Principle number two is called kaizen. Kaizen is a Japanese philosophy that promotes change for the better. The idea is that it's always to make it better, even if Now I know that sounds in the face of what we just talked about, but here's how it works. Any employee, at any level can stop production, if they see an improvement or a problem that is The assembly stops, the makes the necessary changes, At Toyota, no one is going to get punished for stopping production. In fact, they promote what is called just in time production, which basically means if you that's time you could have Finishing early is a bad But apparently not for my ex. Western manufacturers, however, are always driven by That's how they evaluate Companies like Ford want to know if you can have it done on time. (buzzer) Companies like Toyota want to know if you can have it done well. (sparkle) In the mid-2000s, the Ford in Dearborn, Michigan would At the Toyota plant in Kentucky, employees would stop the production line 2,000 times a week. At Donut, we also use which is why no matter how early we finish one of these videos, we're still tweaking it the But kaizen isn't just a way for the sake of it. After years and years Toyota has found that many are caught long before When employees have the freedom The team can work out the and as employees get more they solve problems earlier therefore saving money For most other manufacturers, if a problem with spotted they'll tack on a fix but the underlying problem is still there. Have you ever heard your dad say, &quot;Measure twice, cut once&quot;? That's kaizen in a nutshell. Except they're measuring, It's a little neurotic. But, worse. Kaizen has proven to be that companies like GM and Ford are now trying to integrate it into their own production lines. Toyota have also gotten to implement kaizen into And that's a big part of why in the Supra and the 86. But there's another reason other companies build their sports cars. And it's something that While all this management it does result in one major drawback. Toyota has never been known for While their most popular sports the Celica and the MR2 nobody would argue they're fast. Even the great Mark 4 Supra, which is famous for being able did not have great performance stock. That's not to say that I mean, they have a whole and now GR, which is Gazoo Racing, that make very fast, very But most of the 8.8 million would not be considered fast. This is thanks to the idea of Function comes first. Fast comes second. Toyotas are built for and fuel economy. In fact, Toyota is so dedicated to this that many tuners will are some of the toughest ones to tune for. On top of that, Toyota is to their engineering. They make small changes over time, small steps to make their even better. And that makes sense, because Take the iconic 22R-E engine, for example. Toyota produced these inline all the way to 1997, with This engine is famously bulletproof and can be found in the Hilux Surf, and one of This 2.4 liter four cylinder with the six cylinder BMWs in the 80s. Can you think of, like, an from that era that can say the same? Like, there's the Iron Duke, and that wasn't famous, it was infamous. Ugh. It's not uncommon to see 22R-Es with 300, 400,000 miles on the clock. And that's thanks to a few things. One being that Toyota made They're over-engineered, and they don't rev very high. The 22R-E has a rev line of 5,700 RPM, which is unusually low for It's possible that the ceiling was higher, but the reduced rev line means on the engine over the course of its life, increasing its lifespan. They just don't make that But that falls in line of practicality over performance. And that's one of the reasons is this incredible longevity. I mean, some families only buy Toyotas. I mean, Joey has like four of them. He just bought another 4Runner. I don't know where he's keeping them. But it's entirely possible because Toyota is just that smart. The fourth gen 4Runner's is a super durable iron block engine that can also be found in a the Tundra and the Sequoia. They made such a good engine. They're just like, screw it, let's put it in all of our cars. The most power puts out from the factory is 324 foot pounds of That's enough to get but they're not exactly bragging numbers. But you want to know what is brag-worthy? Taking your business beyond cars. In January of this year, Toyota announced they'd of jidoka and kaizen to the next level, and build not just cars, Now I've, look, I've mentioned this thing but now I have an excuse They're calling it the Woven City, and it will sit at the base the coolest mountain to There aren't a lot of but the idea is to have an entire city powered by next generation tech, to see how those technologies The Woven City isn't some giant lab, where if it doesn't work, It's going to be an actual And they'll have to contend with any flaws in the infrastructure. It sounds daunting, but how else are you going are an actually viable renewable resource? How are you going to to make roads safer? How else can you make sure aren't a totally terrible idea that will only escalate the and drive us down the These are the questions I truly wish the Woven City the best. It'll be interesting to see how the tenets of jidoka and kaizen Life is not a product, so I'm not sure how tools will affect the quality of living. But if the infrastructure is then Toyota will probably pull it off. All right, so autonomous aren't super sexy, but don't think for a second that Toyota is going to be content with being seen as humdrum. You had another think coming, pal. The new boss over at Toyota got onstage at the Detroit Auto Show and said, &quot;No more boring cars.&quot; At first, we all just thought he meant the Camry would get side skirts But then we started to some cooler stuff. Toyota built a sporty hot They call it the GR Yaris. This car is not practicality It's got the highest specific Specific output refers of engine displacement. So the GR Yaris with 1.6 liter engine and a specific output of 167.5 horsepower means that it makes 268 horsepower. The engine is powerful and brand new. The all-wheel drive And if the principles of jidoka and kaizen have been applied to it'll last long enough for 'cause it's not coming to America. But I heard they might put so there's some, there's some hope. So here's my theory, okay? Toyota has spent so much that it's become ingrained in their engineering and practices. And now, now that they've got that down, they're starting to chase performance. A decade ago, they made who just needed to get from A to B. Heck, they made the Prius. But in the last few years, and won the WRC. And yes, you've got to But you've got to be reliable too. If you don't already know, we have a podcast called Past Gas that's available everywhere as well as YouTube. We also have a membership program called the Donut Underground, videos, you get access to a The community is super nice, and we pop in there every now and then. We're not putting any Just, this is just for Check it out, follow Donut on all social Follow me at Nolan J Sykes. Be kind, see you next time.