2011 was an important year for RuneScape. After declining since 2007, they made a sharp Free Trade - an extremely unpopular decision and real world trading. But they weren't going to allow things to prepared what they called the "Bot Nuke": They would drop the nuke a single week prior face to face - an extremely bold move to try risky one. It's easy enough to say you're going to thing entirely to actually do it. The botting communities shrugged it off, but In fact, they were so confident, that then-CEO to anyone who could make a working bot within And Jagex had good reason to be this bold Every single bot for RuneScape was crippled, that the account was on a one-way ticket to Overnight, Jagex had ended botting in RuneScape. So you can imagine Mark's surprise when, botting website stepped through the doors his laptop. Hello RuneScape, Will Miss It here with a Today's story is an exciting one that I of, but definitely not the whole thing. In fact, what I'm about to tell you comes on the matter. I've done my best to bring it into a single on it yourself and come to your own conclusions. Oh, and as always, don't forget that botting, are against the rules of RuneScape. Just so I don't get in any trouble from I definitely hope you enjoy today's video... But don't try any of this at home, kids. December 2010. If you want a botting client for RuneScape, RSBot, Arbibots... All your favourite cheating software is available And with customers paying a handsome fee for Not just with their extremely active forum, of the largest RuneScape fan-sites around. While there are a lot of bots made by just today we're concerned about two of the biggest Now, despite the large amounts of bots in the actually seeing much of the reward. The owner of Powerbot, Paris, was raking in dollars a month, on top of money coming in Powerbot was a massive success, and a success Understandably, Jacmob wasn't very happy Most of Powerbot's success came from the just responsible for hosting them. In fact, Jacmob believed that the only reason bots, and the site would be nothing without So, Jacmob reached out to Paris with a deal: but would let Paris keep 70% of the website's You might think that sounds like an odd deal, in the money; only in managing a successful Despite the relatively generous offer, Paris with Jacmob staying on as a developer. However, by this point, Jacmob had formed Together with Arbiter, he planned to start now hosted in a place that they could manage And so, RSBuddy was born - a domain was set Automaton Softwares Limited. He founded the company in Germany, as the of speech. Everything's legal in Germany. Before Paris was even aware of the birth of the growing discontent in his own house. Jacmob's offer had started something of about Paris' leading style; leading to a who stood with Paris, and those who stood Amidst the flames, Paris brought in a new RSBot in Jacmob's place. Now, if you think that sounds like the last soon as Jacmob found out, he resigned from throttle on RSBuddy's development. By pure chance, this was actually a critical time, Jagex announced the return of Free Trade. Introduced 3 years prior to combat rampant the huge amount of players they had lost to The community is rejoicing. I mean, why wouldn't they? One of the most unpopular changes of all time But for each second Jagex spends preparing the floodgates open to real world trading menu, and it was a bot-making arms race to The return of Free Trade wouldn't just be It would be the best update that the bot-makers So goldfarming is about to come back in a to take the crown from Powerbot. The next few months are going to be critical to all the new clients. If either site makes a mistake, it'll be So, remember how Paris replaced Jacmob with Well, Liang has some pretty big boots to fill, They give it their best shot... But while making some changes, they overlook the software. Uh oh. Enter Gh0st. He discovers the flaw, and boy, is it a gaping With access to Powerbot's server, he uploads RSBot to the site. As Powerbot users downloaded RSBot from their keylogger alongside it - one that not only that also kept track of their in-game Bank Uh oh. Well, I'm sure nothing bad comes of that. Let's check in on the other team. Towards the end of the month, Arbiter also later, RSBuddy is released to the public. The site quickly gains traction. Both Arbiter and Jacmob are well known and and botters are more loyal to the software a mass exodus of users over to the RSBuddy So as February approaches, Jacmob's new in years. Now, even the most rule-abiding players knew So as the update hit, the economy crashed. Anticipating the goldfarming rush, whips, were panic-sold en masse, causing their value Players expected the market to be flooded so they sold them in advance... Which tanked their value. The goldfarmers didn't even need to do anything; Which is funny, because the goldfarmers weren't time they had built up any significant amount It was all gone. Not just what they'd botted, but all of all vanished. Or, to be precise, they'd been stolen. Huh, I wonder if that had anything to do with Now, mass hijackings aren't the sort of this exploded in the community. And it didn't take long for the common thread hijacked was an RSBot user. Even if they were all rulebreakers, the botters out for one another. And so, they spread the news as much as they botting software. It's a Keylogger in disguise. Not liking Powerbot's chances, here. Rumours also quickly spread that the notorious Players claimed that he had stored up thousands page - and all the money he had stolen had massive profit. Powerbot fought these rumours, however. On February 2nd, they released a statement: It had been Jacmob and Arbiter. This was all a dirty trick they'd played simultaneously sinking their greatest competitor for all of RSBuddy's illegal activities, How devious. Days later, Arbiter released his statement Paris was lying to save face, and to make tainted from the start. Gh0st also wanted in on the very exciting for the incident, explaining how he had gained code. The return of Free Trade had been a bloodbath. But despite the massive hit that Powerbot They may have lost the battle, but they had With Liang's loophole now fixed, both sites little about. But by the end of the year... That would have changed completely. Hey, buddy, are you okay? Ugh, not really. I'm dealing with a hijacking issue right It looks like someone has been snooping on Wait, aren't you using a VPN? Of course not. I don't want to have to wait ages for each Buddy. Pal. Guy. I've got something that can solve all your For the last time, I'm not going to- NordVPN. Oh. NordVPN has over 5500 Super Fast servers in securely AND speedily. No one is going to be snooping on your data, - and hey, Nord doesn't keep logs, so they to. It even works in China! Jeez, they got it working in China? Okay, that sounds good and all, but I'm doesn't live up the hype. Hey, if you don't believe me, go ahead and guarantee if you're not as impressed as Okay, okay, you've convinced me. I'll sign up for it later. Well you better be quick about it, because for a 2 year plan. They're starting their final sale, so make Awesome, thanks. Wait, who's Will Miss It? ...I'll see you around. ...Does that guy even work here? Several months have passed, and both sites Despite Powerbot's setback, they still had to have just as much star power as Arbiter Both sites operated at full capacity, but Powerbot charged premium for most of their scripts, in line the same service for free; in line with Jacmob's. Since the choice between the two basically I'll let you guess which site had the edge. RSBuddy was quickly considered to be RuneScape's beyond that. In fact, RSBuddy was RuneScape's largest And with Jacmob hard at work on RSBuddy 1.5, was only going to get larger. RuneScape users had wondered how Jagex planned return of Free Trade - but at the start, it Botters were getting away with it, and Jagex The situation got extremely dire after Jagex's videos in RuneScape History: "Is this the In mid-August 2011, Jiblix, a well-known and how rampant the botting problem had become, in that year's Golden Joystick Awards unless In response, Jagex de-moderated him from both about the problem. There were mass protests over this ingame... And still, no solution in sight. As one of, if not THE most heated topic in was guaranteed to be a JMod bloodbath. There was no way to hide from the players But, bang, out of nowhere - and not a moment the infamous bot nuke that claimed it would I opened the video talking about this, so - but, as said before, the CEO of Jagex offered bot within a month of the nuke dropping. So, October 25. Pewwwwww... Booooooom. Jagex may have been bold about their claims, The nuke worked. For the first time in years, the game dropped All the worlds were nearly dead, with around worlds, which were previously often too full In one week, 12.7 million accounts were banned country for it, China, saw account registrations of several hundred thousand down to just 953. Jagex estimated that within the first week 40% of their active playerbase. And the bots were down. The communities scrambled to get them back of a month on his challenge. He would have been impressed if someone was Needless to say, the botting communities tried, Jagex had won. The botmakers couldn't beat the nuke. So, four days later - on Saturday 29 October 2011 to rapturous applause. He presents the statistics for the bans, and An hour later, he exits the stage - a smile villain to the community's champion. But as he exits the stage, he is approached No doubt a player pleased with his work, he But they're not smiling because of the bot They're smiling because they've beaten 18 year old Jacmob tells it straight to Mark Skeptical, but intrigued, Mark invites Jacmob Jacmob pulls out his laptop, turns it on, RSBuddy 1.5. And, sure enough, Jacmob is a man of his word The nuke has been defeated. After an entire hour on stage waxing lyrical before his eyes. And as one man of his word to another, Jacmob November 4th, 2011 - just a week later. RSBuddy announces that they are shutting down, isn't very social. This confusing u-turn of their stance makes joining Jagex. As he does so, his other team members admit were given the chance. Jacmob also reassures the users of RSBuddy for them; their information won't be used down for botting, but Jacmob will be spending something he is extremely confident that he'll So, what happened to Powerbot? Well, a few days later, Jagex released a statement most popular botting websites. Ah. Yikes. In the same statement, they also cleared RSBuddy pursue them as a "gesture of goodwill" Huh, it's almost like they coordinated that his first day in their office. With quite the reputation behind him, Jacmob Something inconspicuous would let him put It's Jacmob. He picks "Mod Jacmob". Under this genius alias, Jacmob starts to initiative. At the same time, he starts attending the to do on the side. While Jagex staff had a lot of programming didn't have the inside knowledge that Jacmob valuable asset in their attempts to finish In later years, Jagex staff have admitted Gerhard's prodigy. Hired without the barriers the other staff Jacmob had a prime position that the other In fact, JMods often ran their ideas through management, so they could use him to fast Together with Mark, they also made up two release of the Well of Goodwill, using money through their personal accounts. Jacmob certainly had the most unique position For example, when a money pouch bug was discovered 200 players; something that Jacmob wasn't A lot of responsibility for an 18 year old "Hey, Jacmob, can you go ban these guys Thanks." "Oh, hey, Jacmob, can you go snoop on my Wow, that's what she's up to these days? Christ." "Yo, Jacmob, can you go like and subscribe Now, you may be wondering what happened to Well, Arbiter actually continued to keep developing Arbiter claimed Jacmob was well aware of it, Now, when Jacmob said he was going to put lying. The bot nuke had been effective, but with people were starting to get around it. So Jacmob had been working on his own project. Optimus, also known as Botwatch, was Jacmob's in May 2012, to much success. If anything it may have been a little too received a large update, but also accidentally Mod Emilee made a statement saying that this Jagex then spent a lot of time manually checking since just unbanning everyone would unban Despite this small setback, Botwatch proved - while not outright eliminated - bots started Jacmob has certainly left a legacy at Jagex. Apart from being a crucial member of the team the development of Old School RuneScape - producing enabled the client to have a resizable mode. Yeah, you can thank Jacmob for that. However, he wasn't the only ex-cheater to Gh0st - now working under the name "Matthew" in 2013 to try and make a third party client, popular, such as Swiftkit; but for Oldschool Dubbed "Orion", the client went on to Despite Matthew's dubious past with, y'know, In early 2015, after Mark Gerhard left Jagex a job at Gerhard's new business - and, ever resignation to Jagex. Additionally, with Gerhard becoming an investor - they were quick to set their sights on the In discussion with Matthew and Skiller, Jacmob With this acquisition, ex-CEO Mark Gerhard of Oldschool's most popular third party With this, Orion went through some rebranding, nowadays - OSBuddy. This name had been bought from a separate Automaton brand. Though the team was skeptical of the name, botting client, Jacmob reassured them that It'd be fine. Okay. Where to start... So Jacmob was right, the name was the least But over the coming years, OSBuddy would see A lot of this stems from Jagex working out hound other third party clients. As a result, disgruntled players started to on OSBuddy - and as you can imagine, there For starters, Mark Gerhard's involvement Kind of odd that the ex-CEO is involved with off of the game, no? And then there's Matthew, who, as you can Not just the stuff we've mentioned already from Matthew was uploaded to Reddit, showing disagreed with the client. Then in 2017, a HD version of Oldschool was may remember from the 2011 Rotten Potato Robbery. He claimed that Matthew had created a fake a future mass-hijacking, like the stunt Matthew OSBuddy did however go to Reddit to confirm to upload any files to the OSBuddy client, by him. Regardless, Jacmob has seen massive success Before he even joined Jagex, he's estimated through RSBuddy in a single year of existing of legal action once he actually joined Jagex. Arbiter, Jacmob's ex-colleague, did over to write botting scripts for Oldschool. His RuneScape 3 bots were eventually shut Arbiter is also hopeful following Jacmob's makers may be able to increase their lead of the picture. Powerbot was unceremoniously shut down in against Jagex. Paris either went back to France or Troy, that joke. Thank you all so much for watching this long employees. It's kind of weird how the connotation of isn't it? At least we didn't see any hour-long, overly I'll see you all again next week as we dive equally exciting history. Thank you once again to our sponsor for this is Will Miss It, and I'll see you all later.