You put a hole in the wall! I'm pretty sure we all saw that viral clip out of China where the guy's like kicking this TV and it doesn't break. And if you guys are anything like me, you probably Googled it and tried to find out some more information. Like what is this TV? Who makes it? And is the thing actually kick-proof? And there's no information out there. Fortunately, we have dug into the root of this and this, I am assured by the friend of the guy who runs the warehouse that ships our lttstore.com merchandise, that this is in fact the kick-proof TV. Unfortunately, all the packaging's in Chinese. I don't know what this brand is. I don't know who this guy is. And I don't see any indication on either side of this packaging that this thing is in fact kick-resistant, let alone kick-proof. But I'm gonna kick it anyway. Not yet. Later. Later this message from our sponsor. FreshBooks accounting software is custom-built for small business owners like you to help you stay more organized and productive. Try their 30-day free trial at freshbooks.com forward slash tech tips. We're gonna have that linked below. Andy, I don't think I stand a chance here without my trusty Chinese translator. So can you come in and hook me up, please? Oh, wow. Thank you for that. Let's start with this. Do you know this brand? I know this brand, but I almost forgot this brand exists. Okay. So it's like Curtis. It's like, oh yeah, they make portable CD Walkmans or whatever. Like LED. I got that. What's this? Basically screen, TV. Basically this part says our brand. The total value of our brand is like 7.5 billion Who puts that on their box? Who cares? So it's must be 55 inch 4K. This is a fairly budget TV. I think it's priced at about $400 for the 55 inch. Look at this. You can immediately tell that there is a layer in front of the actual display panel behind it. Honestly, that kind of seems like cheating. We made a kick-proof TV by putting the TV behind a gigantic thick layer of glass. Is it glass? Well, I don't know that it's glass. It's quite ripply. So it could be some kind of a plastic or a composite. Standard VESA mount. Only two HDMI inputs. Composite component. Wait, two composites, no component. Look at this antenna. Huh? VGA in. That's curious. And it's apparently a smart TV. It does have an RJ 45 jack. Isn't China 120 volt? Nope. 240 or 220. Even though it uses the same prongs? Yeah. Same prong, but 240 220. Let me call Brian, the electrician. Hey. You've reached the voice mailbox of Linus Sebastian. Please leave a message. No, I'm just with you. Hey Brian. Oh my God, he hung up. Wait, new idea. Maybe we don't need Brian. We'll take it over to the workshop. The outlet for the mill wouldn't work, but it turns out that the four prong outlet for the lathe, I actually have this old adapter that I bought for the server room that I never ended up using. We got power. Wee. I wonder if there is a, is there a physical button on the back? Aha. Hey. Oh my God. It has an ad the first thing when you turn it on. That's hilarious. That's terrible. I can tell you right now that this panel is not fast. You can actually see the ghosting, the trails behind these things as it's just moving across the screen, even though it's so slowly. And you know what the craziest part is, is we weren't even connected to the internet yet. That Buick ad is in the TV. Like it's all, it's preloaded. Wow, it's super slow. Look at this. What is this? Is this an ad? That's an ad. That's why they need the kick-proof TV. Just cut it out with the f***ing ads. So what are we looking at here? We've got some Chinese dramas. We've got some super slow response on this thing. This is like super crazy reflective, but so that's the thing, is one of the things that Apple did so well on their mobile devices over the last 10 years is reducing the air gap between the front glass and the actual panel, because that air gap is where you get a lot of the distortion and that's where you get a lot of the reflection. Okay, so I gotta pay for that. You have to pay for that. Can I play a preview? Maybe. The black levels on this are terrible. And you said this was a VA panel, right? It's a Samsung panel. Samsung panel, apparently. I guess a big part of the problem though is just that we have ambient light and we've got this horrible reflection. Look at this, I got English subtitles and everything. Other than the reflection issues, I would say the viewing angles meet expectations. You're losing a lot of color saturation, but I think that is to do with the reflectiveness. So what I'm looking for is if we minimize the reflections, does the color quality change? Oh, it does, yeah. Because what you'll notice is that you actually get a ghost of the image that is refracting off the front glass. Oh yeah, I see that. Yeah, yeah. It's hard to say if the problem is the panel or the glass, but if I had to guess based on that this is a Samsung VA panel, I would say it just has to do with this gigantic air gap and how much it distorts the light that's coming out of the panel itself. So is that it? It's time? We were being a little facetious before. We can imagine some scenarios where having a more robust TV might be important. Test number one, gaming in VR and you forgot to put on your wrist strap. Andy, let's simulate the VR experience. Can you put my hood over my eyes, please? Ah, ltdstore.com. Thanks for that. I'm playing my Beat Saber. I'm slicing, I'm dicing, he's slashing, he's whacking. Is it broken? Ooh. Did it break? Why are you guys making those noises? Okay. Don't worry, this controller's already a dead one. This time I'm going for like a big sideways slash. Did it break? No. Like the whole TV was like wobbly. Where'd I hit it? This part. Not even a scratch. Nothing. Scenario number two, something a little more intentional. Close your eyes and imagine this. You're on Blood Gulch. Let's capture the flag. You got one more cap and this 10-year-old shreeking into the microphone no-scopes you from across the freaking map. There's plastic residue from the controller that I'm wiping off the TV. Did you see that? The residue? So that's not part of the TV. I go like that, it's gone. Of course you didn't pay good money to see us throw controllers at the TV. You wanna see us kick it. So we're gonna start with a simple test that's very close to what they do in the viral video, which honestly speaking was pretty weak sauce. I'm gonna take my shoe off, but they basically went like this. Okay. Meets expectations. I mean, I'm hitting it reasonably hard. I think we've got the same TV. Now let's kick it up a notch. Get it? No. Do I need to be cool? Yeah, be cool and tough. Okay. I'm Dennis. Dennis, black belt, taekwondo. This time you've got some friends over. They're playing charades and they've had a little bit too much to. The clue is. Power Rangers. Jackie Chan. Gymnastics. Taekwondo black belt. Glasses. Nerd. Scrawny. Dennis. Oh my God. Oh, look it. Did he break it? I see a mark. Where? Oh my God. Can you see it, Brandon? Yeah. Nothing. What? What? No way. David. Taekwondo black belt. 12 years of soccer. Single. One year ballet. Not single, you're gonna get in trouble. Wait, yeah. New scenario. You invite over a friend to check out this sweet new Taibo, you know, video that you've been following along to. And your friend's a little enthusiastic. Oh my God. You put a hole in the wall. But wait, wait. James, a little bit of jujitsu, a little bit of kickboxing. Mostly just happened to be on set. New scenario. You got someone over and you decide to just kind of rough house and wrestle in the living room. So this, this one's really fun. You just put your feet together like this. And the idea is that the right foot must stay planted. You can only make contact with just your right hand. So it's like a kind of, yeah. Now it's looking good. Oh! Is that cheating? Okay, I didn't know you were going to go right then, but it's good. So that was, the difference between that one is it wasn't quite as sharp a point of contact, but that was my full body weight. Huh? I'm Nick, big sports fan. Come on. Yeah. Oh! There's some residue again. Is this where you hit it? Yeah. I mean, that's where you hit it. Let's see, does it wipe off? And it's gone. So the image quality ain't great. The viewing angles kind of suck, but is it as advertised? Yeah. For better or for worse, whatever your reason for needing a kick-proof TV is, this thing is kick-proof AF. Unreal. I cannot believe that this thing actually held up. That was with shoes. I mean, okay, sandals. But the bottom of them are shoe-like. The HD 6XX headphones, which were a collaboration between Massdrop, now drop.com, and Sennheiser, have sold over 90,000 units. They're an all-time bestseller on drop.com, and no wonder. The HD 600s, which they are based on, are my daily drivers at home still because they're comfortable, they're rugged, they sound great with a nice, balanced mid-range, natural-sounding bass. And, I mean, what else do you need? They've got a 1 1/8-inch plug for everyday use, they come with a 1/4-inch adapter for professional use, and they include a two-year warranty from Sennheiser. Click the link below and get yours today at drop.com. New users on the website can get $25 off these headphones. Go. This is incredible. I wanna check out the screen protector next. Can we get that? Yeah. Let's get that. Guys, make sure you're subscribed so you don't miss that. We've got a follow-up here, boys and girls. The screen is very fragile. Please handle with care.