Game of Thrones appears to be about war and person who ultimately wins the Game of Thrones fighting wars, because as violent as Game screen ins't wielded with physical force. So, even though Cersei says things like She actually acts like this It's the same in our world. Power is not always mini conflicts that are occurring under the And these mini conflicts are, while less physically chance of winning the Game of Thrones. So, in this video, we're going to explore between Tyrion and Daenerys. And you're going with, and how you can use his principles in with the 4 W's of power. The first W, controlling WHEN things occur. silence will be broken in this next clip. In this scene, Tyrion and Jorah are completely and Tyrion is from a family that she hates. this situation. And this scene shows how she power. When Jorah interrupts the silence, when the interaction begins. And what this shows is the importance of sitting is something that other characters really out Joffrey versus Tywin and notice who fidgets The power dynamic here is obvious. Less movement person is reacting to the other person. Clearly, is Tywin. And that is the point of the first it ends, and if you can sit comfortably with first W. We're going to talk specific tips for your that Daenerys wins Round 1 in terms of handling she wants them to be there, and the conversation So let's now go to Round 2 and the second video how Tyrion is excellent at finding what in that end. He's also excellent at making in any interaction. So, watch now as he makes like he is screening Dany for a chance to This type of screening occurs all the time going to ask why an applicant is a good fit, that at some point and say, &quot;Wait a second, buyer typically will ask, &quot;Why should I buy your say, &quot;Why should we work with you?&quot; This is from the situation elevate their status and Now, oftentimes, the WHO is more important So watch this example of Tywin and Joffrey feel more or less important. Clearly, this scene is shot in a way that is lounging above him while Tywin stands beneath. are set up. They have a nice chair. You sit this, with tables in off limits areas, velvet In these situations, you are at a disadvantage which can be very tough to switch out of. his social inferiority in the situation and to stay in that literally lower position. And you see how quickly that bravado switches to Gleeson's part, but the point is that ideally, in analogous situations. Without making a that reinforces the uneven power dynamic. So i mentioned interviews before just to give worked really well when I was doing consulting case interview as an excuse to change your adjacent to the interviewer to show your work, And that simple shift from moving from across you weren't just proving yourself to them, it too. The root of creating this kind of importance in saying why should I work with you, and elevate your status, you need a deep-seated Power resides when men believe it resides. small man can cast a very large shadow. So, in order to have power, you need to believe with Tywin. Now you don't need to be like superior. It isn't about believing that you that you believe that you do not need any you may want to create a relationship with date, whatever. But, then, you'll be fine whether you do or when your life is on the line, like it is But in terms of the situations that I've mentioned, is to mentally review the reasons that you to mentally review all the options that you from the position of it will be nice to get date, but you won't come across as powerless So, anyway, let's go back to Tyrion's position Watch how Dany ask Tyrion a question, and answer, answering it in her terms, he begins See how Tyrion doesn't directly respond to story? He is controlling the agenda now. Dany to her. The story has a bit of mystery. Where And she puts together very quickly that he's relevant to her, and, now, Tyrion has her wanted her to at the beginning. You, in your own life, can direct what people a fascinating story, especially one with mystery, The point is take their attention in any way seat, because once you've gotten that attention, In the case of this clip, Dany goes right She asks him why she should keep him around. It might seem like she's still attacking him, that Tyrion has dominance over. How he can help there and she's not. He shifted the WHAT of the conversation from help me?&quot;Just with a simple story. So Round the rest of the conversation as he hammers And, then, moving up the stairs to switch actually advising her. And you can see that at this point, Tyrion her and she is listening to him. So, the final this one sealed from the gecko. She started her, perched at the top of her throne. But just to illustrate how powerful location isn't in such a dominant location. And they go without saying that you want people your turf. Have a first date at a place where meeting in your office. In short, whenever status. Now, Tyrion probably doesn't think very firm command of these four W's. And even able to snatch back power from winning these When he can't control WHEN the conflict occurs, he can't control WHERE the conflict occurs, In your own life, you can start to notice what you want. The most actionable piece of advice I can the right place. And you do that by focusing in any interaction. You do that by focusing it's a job interview, a sales pitch, a first feeling like you need something, because that can be walked all over and you will be. Get your mindset back to your options. Be you'll do better just about every single time. that I did years ago, Not everything in life a winner and a loser. It's a helpful perspective but don't get obsessed about it. You got to balance an eye for power dynamics way to win is just to ignore power dynamics bit too Zen for you. If you want me to talk But, in the mean time, if you're looking for video that covers the four emotions that guarantee If you hit those in the right order, it doesn't a board room, at work. It doesn't matter. anyone because they're based on the emotions So, if you're curious what those emotions take you to a page where you can drop your video and you'll understand what those 4 emotions Also, if you've enjoyed this video and you button on screen to subscribe to the channel. I love Game of Thrones. I'm happy to do more But, really, at it's core, this channel is confident self. And we're going to cover that means advice videos with me on camera, sometimes other times that means me breaking down famous So, if you have a suggestion as well of someone on Game of Thrones, or it's the topic, go stuff is so helpful to me. This channel exists things that are going to be most helpful to Let me know what you want to see in the Comments that is the thing. In any event, I really forward to the next video and I hope to see