Today, I'm going to clean the refrigerator! ``But, it's such a hassle~'' While you're struggling, the one on the left isn't that bad, but this one must be dirty... Check the seasonings, too, and reconsider cleaning and storage When you clean and organize the refrigerator, it beeps. I'm panicking... hey, the inside of this case is dirty! ! Washing it makes it refreshing ^^ Checking the expiration date It was 2023... Let's wash the sauce and soy sauce that I bring to my lunch box Once again, I bought the lard that my husband uses (I think there will be one last use) and thought I should get rid of it before I forget. I had an idea (How to organize the refrigerator and relieve your impatience) Just think about it in this state! ! I can't use this because I'm going to make tea, so I guess it's better to buy a larger one than a smaller one.There I also have garlic, but it's easy and I end up using it. left door pocket When you go to Kaldi, you will want to try various things. I wish I could use regular soy sauce (my husband wanted sashimi soy sauce) I am worried that the water purification pot is taking up a lot of space... Don't leave the vegetables in the bag, wash them and make them ready to use right away. If possible, take them out of the bag they were in when you bought them. After that, I put it in the refrigerator.It gets dirty easily, so let's clean it. I used to store root vegetables at room temperature, but it got too hot and they would rot, so I changed to storing them in the refrigerator. I copied the viewers and divided them into 3 bags each! I'm the kind of person who likes to try a lot of things to see what works for me ^^ Since I don't store pumpkins I don't use it in the refrigerator, so I use the Nitori storage case in the vegetable room. I'm about to use it, I have to use it quickly Onions wrapped in plastic wrap instead of silicone bags This is also Nitori (not discontinued...too bad) Standard Products pot cover (I peeled off the inner vinyl) Now If you start buying whole Chinese cabbage, you won't be able to buy rice. I'll put the case in this gap. I'm not sure what to do (I even left it there) Continued on another day This is a bit different from the previous organization using Nitori goods. Remove from egg carton and store Originally, products used in combination like this Even if I moved the shelves, I couldn't achieve this shape. With this, I can't put it on top, which is very inconvenient. This way, you can put it on top (change of way of thinking) I'm using it incorrectly, but it's working very well for me. Mustard and some leftover curry roux A combination of tofu and juice ^^; Natto will be stored in the freezer, so I won't put it here. Half-used koji, rice flour, etc. The beer in the door pocket was no good because it wasn't cold enough ^^ Although it has a large capacity, the sauce disappears surprisingly quickly. The previous one fit, but I can't close it because the size has changed. So it takes up a lot of space, but I put it here. I'm about to run out of miso, so I'll move the rest. I use it as is without refilling it. Store miso and Chinese seasonings at the top. Need space for leftovers and pre-made food I just put it in an empty container. It is convenient to make slits or cut up sausages for lunch boxes. The shallowest drawer in the freezer is difficult to use, so I don't put much in it ^^; A mixture of what is done and what is not done Is there a better way to store frozen strawberries? I don't eat natto every day, so I freeze it right away. Daiso storage container that I adopted a while ago Right now, I don't have bread or frozen lunch boxes, so this is what I do. Thank you~ Refrigerator ^^ I don't like this! If you think like that, your home appliances will break too... I like the refrigerator, but it's the same with other home appliances. Keep it clean and use it with care. Thank you for watching until the end. Follows, comments, and high ratings are encouraging.