To create foam for a latte, you must push air into the milk with the steam. I see you looking at me. No, you do it through the camera. Now I made it weird. One of the trickiest things to learn by watching videos alone is milk steaming and latte art. Without hands on training, it can be hard to know what's going wrong, especially when all the videos only show you what you should be doing. And if it really were that easy, we wouldn't be here. I feel certain you'll be able to steam glossy, latte-art-ready milk after I show you the top mistakes baristas make when it comes to steaming milk, that's latte art ready. To create foam for a latte, you must push air into the milk with the steam wand. This is called aeration or stretching the milk. The goal is to expand the milk volume by about one third. If you use too much milk for the pitcher size, you won't have enough room to properly stretch the milk without the risk of overflowing your pitcher. If you don't use enough milk for your pitcher size, you won't leave room for the steam wand to submerge under the surface of the milk, which could lead to creating too much foam or blowing out the milk. Especially if you have a powerful steam wand, use a pitcher that's a few ounces larger than the drink you're making and fill it just below the spout, or about three to four fingers length from the bottom. When you pour, you should be left with only a thin layer at the bottom of the pitcher. Play around with your cup and pitcher size and how high to fill the pitcher with milk. Wand placement is critical. The wand should be halfway between the center and the wall of the pitcher to encourage a vortex that incorporates foam as you create it. More often than not, baristas either have it too far to the side, making a milk whirlpool that can quickly get out of control or they'll have the one sitting dead center in the milk, and it'll look more like a jacuzzi when steaming, bubbling up and splashing everywhere. The correct angle will make a better final product. Personally, I like to keep the steam wand in the spout of the pitcher as a home base and then move it towards the right so the steam wand sits halfway between the center and the left side of the pitcher. It feels right to me. Try it out. The other position you need to be cautious of is depth placement. I recommend starting with the wand just slightly under the surface of the milk so that when you turn on your steam wand you don't blast milk everywhere. If the wand sits above the surface, when you turn it on, you'll experience what is technically called a milk-splosion. (giggles to self) If the steam wand is under the surface of the milk, you're safe, so don't be afraid. Once the wand is on, slowly lower the pitcher until the wand is just kissing the surface. Your queue for this is a gentle paper tearing sound. You'll know you're in the right position when that happens. One of the biggest mistakes I see baristas make is aerating at the wrong time. The difference in foam created when the milk is still cool compared to when it's warm is dramatic. To get latte grade microfoam, you must aerate or stretch the milk while it's still cold before the milk passes 100 degrees Fahrenheit. You can either use your hand like I do or a thermometer. Depending on your steam pressure. You may need to aerate all the way until you reach 100 degrees or only for a second or two. This takes some experimenting. If you wait to aerate until the very end, you'll be left with large sea foam like bubbles that stay separated from the milk. If you aerate the entire time, you'll have an abundance of extremely stiff foam. If you don't aerate at all, you'll finish with just very hot milk. And if you don't aerate enough, the milk will let you know. Once you reach 100 degrees or have created the amount of foam you like, submerge the one back underneath the surface of the milk until you finished heating the milk to its final temperature. Milk not only aerates differently at various temperatures, it tastes differently, too. When you introduce heat to milk, the sugars break down, making the milk much sweeter. However, if you overdo it, it can curdle, taste sour and ruin the foam. Ideally, the final temperature should sit between 130 to 150 degrees with a general rule of alternative milk at slightly cooler temperatures. To ensure you reach a high enough final temperature it's important to hold the pitcher properly. Most people aren't able to keep their hand on 140 degree metal pitcher for more than a second or two, so I recommend holding the pitcher by the handle and using your other hand to work the machine and gauge for temperature. So do a taste test, figure out how hot you like your lattes and how long it takes for your machine to reach that temperature. Every type of milk has a different make up of fats, sugars and proteins. They will not all steam the same. The higher the fat content, the more you'll need to aerate. So with whole milk on the Linea Mini, this is about six seconds of aeration and 15 seconds until reaching final temperature. With half and half, it takes about eight seconds of constant aeration to get the same foam consistency as whole milk for low fat milk, about four seconds of gentle aeration. If you prefer a non-dairy milk, make sure to see barista blends as these have been formulated to steam as similarly to whole milk as possible. If you steam milk perfectly, you may not need to spend much or any time on grooming, but not taking a moment to make sure your milk is ready for pouring latte art can ruin your chances at success. Before pouring lightly tap any bubbles out of the pitcher and gently swirl it a few times until it's nice and glossy. Liquid in the milk begins to drain from the foam after steaming. The longer it sits, the more it separates. If you steam milk before pulling a shot or let it sit too long. The milk may be hardly usable. A quick tip for you if this happens. Swirl the milk in the pitcher until the foam incorporates again or try a pitcher transfer. It'll never be as good as pouring immediately after steaming, but it can save the milk. Once it's smooth and shiny, you're ready to pour some latte art. Get the hang of steaming first and then leave any thoughts, questions or comments below, and I'll be happy to help. Once you're feeling good, you'll be ready to pour latte art. Thanks for watching.