Though in the West, this conflict is often known War Two, one of its major combatants, the Empire Daitoasenso, the Greater East Asian War. This name the Pacific itself, but in the construction of a Though their goal was the defeat of the Western their true desire was to become the sole overlords fell against the Japanese behemoth; and even the Asian sphere was now under the control of however, a new warzone emerged, one that brought death and misery. From Pearl Harbor the Americans and their Allies stood fast as they Japanese invincibility weighed heavy on their see them victorious in the end. Thus, join us as from the smoke on the waters of Pearl Many of the ships and battlefields we'll be life for you to enjoy by the sponsor World of Warships is a free-to-play at the helm of over three hundred naval battles across a variety of beautiful realities of seafaring to bare against Pilot battleships, destroyers, aircraft all lovingly modeled in full detail. warships community is the place for you, with a to show off craft and get them fighting in The game gets monthly updates with new so there's always more to see, featuring life experimental ships that never saw We said this is on PC, but as console versions are also available for free. So if you want to get a perfect mix of and a close look at loads of ships from the free. Download the game at our link in use code WARSHIPS to grab a load of As we've seen in the previous episodes, the since the embargo enacted by the US in July, 1941. the Dutch East Indies, the Philippines and Malaya, destroy the American Pacific Fleet, had all been carried out successfully by late November. that war was imminent, engaging in negotiations possible for their forces to adequately prepare. under Vice-Admiral Nagumo Chuichi had already left time was running out for the United States. In Pearl Harbor, the main naval base for the Pacific advantages, making it perfect for accommodating planned to bombard these ships using dive-bombers, hoping that the destruction of these vessels would that's why they didn't target the submarine base Harbor. This attack was so important to get an to the extent of preparing mock ups and models so much so that thousands of hours of air time attack while the Type 91 torpedoes of the era shallow waters. Yet the plan of Admiral Yamamoto Harbor was a naval base, so rescue services would be on shore leave, thus reducing the amount was that the American ships were moored in shallow be salvaged and repaired with comparative ease. three aircraft carriers of the Pacific Fleet the attack. This was something that the Japanese detailed reports of all vessels and schedules at even though these carriers were one of the most in the American base, Major-General Walter Short possible attack on Pearl Harbor, believing that a sabotage operation. In that regard, all army at Wheeler Field, although this also made it were secured; coastal artillery was put on alert; and ships and naval aircraft started to patrol their preparations show, they were definitely while cruising onwards, Nagumo received orders on Pearl Harbor, scheduled to commence five was worried that they might encounter American the Japanese task force had finally reached its with Japanese midget submarines starting to stalk attempting to shadow their prey into the safety open. Meanwhile, Nagumo ordered the first wave Commanded by Fuchida Mitsuo, the first 183 planes carriers some 250 miles north of Oahu. At 06:30, towards Pearl Harbor. A couple minutes later, was sunk by the destroyer Ward in what would be the radar post on Opana Ridge identified a group and then notified headquarters, which didn't for breakfast. At the same time, Nagumo ordered commanded by Shimazaki Shigekazu. Commander Oahu at 07:40, relieved to see no enemy aircraft deploy into attack formation at 7:49. Because dive-bombers and the torpedo planes simultaneously the main objectives due to the concentration systematically bombarded by the dive-bombers A6M Zeros. Most of the planes were completely to get into their fighters to lift off and torpedo forces split into two strings, with 16 Island and with 24 planes going south to Hickam enemy battleships and aircraft. Some eleven arriving at 07:53 and completely neutralizing the Ewa Marine Air Corps Station came under attack scout-bombers burning and utility aircraft attacked at 07:55, six minutes after the assault unaware with a rude and violent awakening. As Field, torpedo planes nosed down on Pearl Harbor, water. Northwest of Ford Island, the ex-battleship explosions, while to the south of the island, the the cruiser Helena was hit. On Battleship Row, the by torpedoes at 07:57. At this point, alarms had decks to man the anti-aircraft guns . Soon after hits that left her capsizing, while the battleship that penetrated the deck and caused small fires. these bombs, but it continued to fire against the behind the Oklahoma, the battleship West Virginia by a total of seven torpedoes that opened while on the other side, the battleship California hit her around 08:05, tearing two huge holes that Arizona was hit for a fourth time at 08:06, a powerful explosion that a fireball erupted from suddenly extinguished due to the concussion, but the repair ship a couple minutes later, forcing West Virginia was also set on fire by fuel leaking sinking due to the damage. 429 men died that day losses including its two leading commanders . This the US would receive in this attack. At the same aircraft carrier Enterprise some 200 miles quickly engaged by the Japanese, but its efforts the aircraft at Hickam Field. Around 08:10, battleship Nevada , causing a small flooding, but gunners. Ten minutes later, after some relentless Arizona , the battleship Tennessee was hit by two although fragments of the bombs were sent flying the West Virginia. Around 08:30, Japanese aircraft undergoing a refit at Dry Dock No. 1, and then minutes. Although one of the bombs caused large the Pennsylvania only got hit once and suffered Shimazaki's second wave reached the east coast of and at 08:45, the California was struck by considerable damage, although she continued Japanese planes made their last sorties with her flooding and then started to get away from battering occurred as the second wave was over the Koolau Mountains, 78 dive-bombers intending to continue the bombardment 18 bombers and 17 fighters attacked Kaneohe and around the south of the mountains to attack Hickam but this time the US forces were determined to made strikes on the hangars and managed to explode south to Bellows Field, shredding with machine-gun the Japanese resumed their bombardment over the so they continued towards Ewa and Wheeler. The hitting the battleship Maryland at 09:08 would continue to fight for another day. Around finally exploding the destroyers there and the strong American resistance forced the Japanese starting more attacks over cruisers and destroyers the second wave would be much less successful than Around 09:50 however, the Nevada would be struck thus suffering severe damage, although she would California would also succumb to its damage around she would finally sink over the next three days. remain in Hawaii while he conducted his finally returning around 11:00. When he his report dissuaded Nagumo from ordering a third like the submarine base or the oil yard. He and because they had lost the element of surprise, the future. The operation, however, was considered eight battleships , among other vessels , damaging 3497 casualties on the US with only minimal losses superiority in the Pacific and could then continue smoke had drifted away in Hawaii, the American and it wanted revenge. The Japanese war Washington before the attack on Pearl Harbor, but the message caused it to arrive one hour after FDR would then give his famous Infamy Speech, targeting Japanese treachery to urge Congress the Pacific War had begun, as the Japanese were against British Malaya, Hong Kong, the Philippines As we've already seen, the United States possessions for too many years since their victory approaching like dark clouds on the horizon, the leading to a considerable weakness for July of 1941, after the Japanese occupation including both American and Filipino forces Douglas MacArthur as its commander-in-chief. region with the old Asiatic Fleet of Admiral with the Pacific Fleet based on Hawaii. This destroyers , although it counted with a albeit not big enough to successfully struggle responsible for the defense of Guam, while the of Admiral Husband Kimmel's Pacific Fleet. In the including one fully-American regiment, three two tank battalions, ten inexperienced coastal and anti-aerial artillery. MacArthur also the command of Major-General Lewis Brereton, as the Philippine Air Corps' six squadrons force to stem the Japanese offensive. In Guam, could be successfully defended, naval forces were counting with some 271 Navy personnel, as well McNulty and some 246 volunteers of the Guam Admiral Kimmel had noticed the valuable strategic year, ordering the construction of naval-base into a stronghold, something that wouldn't be Defense Battalion of marine units for the defense other three battalions assigned to Midway and and Palmyra Islands, while the rest of the a new detachment of the 1st Defense Battalion was command of Major James Devereux. In late November, of Winfield Cunningham, while the defenders of Major Paul Putnam, consisting of twelve limited by the war in China and the attacks they could only count on 2 divisions and a possessions in the Pacific. The rest of the hard their Special Naval Landing Force, the Japanese the Philippines in particular, Tokyo had planned Philippines to have full control of the air. To amphibious invasions against the main American capabilities. Once air superiority was assured, against Luzon and Mindanao , then advancing across locations . The 14th Army of Lieutenant-General Divisions, as well as the 65th Independent Mixed to carry out this operation, and they would be Lieutenant-General Obata Hideyoshi, consisting also appointed Vice-Admiral Takahashi Ibo's 3rd primarily showcasing a variety of cruisers and long-range aircraft in the form of the 11th Air to destroy the Asiatic Fleet, cover and support supply lines and reinforcements. Meanwhile, the selected to conduct operations against the invasions of Wake and Guam. For the attack on Wake aerial bombardment, followed by naval landings on designated as "COMDESRON 6" and commanded of a covering and support force of cruisers and an occupation force , and 450 SNLF marines. For Detachment of Major-General Horii Tomitaro, mainly Regiment . To support the naval landings on Guam, Division of Rear-Admiral Goto Aritomo, consisting SNLF marines . Inoue also planned to occupy the the Howland and Baker Islands. For this operation, of Captain Miyazaki Shigetoshi, consisting of to escort the 51st Naval Garrison Unit in its the 24th Air Flotilla was placed in charge and Gilbert Islands. As we've seen, on December setting up the final preparations for the Japanese days later, Homma's men departed Haha-jima en Tumon Bay, on the southwest coast near Merizo, other invasions, however, would have to wait Meanwhile, at Wake, the American defenders around 06:00, quickly rushing to man the islands' around Wake, with the rest being prepared for off from Formosa, heading towards the Philippines At this point, army bombers returned to Taiwan, was over, even though it had just begun. 34 island towards Wake, while from Saipan, Japanese minelayers . At the same time, Japanese bombers Baker, and the Gilbert Islands. As a result, were damaged and Howland lost two of its four Marshalls also began to embark en route to the SNLF marines landing on Makin and Tarawa unopposed there . Two days later, the Japanese would completing their invasion of the Gilbert Islands. caught the Americans unaware at 12:30, bombarding and its radar station. They then headed to Clark American aircraft on the ground, leaving only 17 East Air Force was shattered, assuring Japanese At the same time, Japanese bombers at Wake then bombarding the airfield and destroying the American camps, defenses, and seaplane facilities, to the Marshall Islands. In a single day, the at Pearl Harbor, leaving the American presence some 490 SNLF marines had already landed in Batan further execute air operations. This convinced Fleet to withdraw and join the British and the aerial bombardments over the remaining American destroying most of the remaining aircraft and Thus, MacArthur was left without naval or air his ground divisions. Wake and Guam were also the American defenders were prepared to brace damage. More air attacks would follow on December fighting in the Pacific. Around 02:00, Goto's engaging the men of the Guam Insular Force Guard firepower. They subsequently advanced towards South Seas Detachment landed at its objectives across the island. Some fighting ensued on Agana's that further resistance was pointless, calling surrender his forces, making Guam the first In the meantime, we are going to return to Wake December 11. Early in the morning, Kajioka's and proceeded to take positions for the landing the bombardment of the American positions on the his forces to track their objectives and to hold of their batteries. Around 06:00, as Kajioka's Deveroux knew that it was now or never, and so a rain of fire fell upon the Japanese warships. the Yubari, hitting her four times on her port while engulfed in smoke, a destroyer swept without much damage before Kajioka's escape. opened fire over the destroyer Hayate, hitting broke in two, and finally sank; the first Japanese targeted another destroyer, hitting it once, but already gotten off range from the American guns. fire with three destroyers and two cruisers, major losses on any side. With the retreat of the Japanese had been defeated; although this Wildcats soon pounced on the retiring ships another destroyer and to severely damage one with only one of the Wildcats receiving some the Japanese immediately retaliated with an air which had been pinpointed by Kajioka's forces. batteries to the east end of Peale to avoid more Japanese behemoth had been stopped, and amidst the the East, it brought hope back to the defenders as the Japanese would come back once again In fact, by December 14, Japanese bombardments Putnam would then start working straight away with the first repaired Wildcat successfully Meanwhile in Johnstone and Palmyra, after the Harbor that luckily didn't do so much damage, a that caused serious damage to a powerhouse. some fierce aerial bombardment in the last two managed to recuperate another of its Wildcats. defenders in Wake would learn of great news, as relief expedition was already on its way. Back Force 14 under the command of Rear-Admiral Frank eight destroyers, the carrier Saratoga, the Defense Battalion. They would depart Pearl Harbor reinforce the defenders at Wake. Kimmel had also Brown, consisting of the carrier Lexington, with the task of striking Japanese bases thought diverting Japanese forces away from Task Force Island was very high. But unbeknownst to them, Admiral Kimmel was relieved of his command of the replaced by Vice-Admiral William Pye. Pye had he still allowed it to continue for the moment, to recall both task forces back to Pearl Harbor. Kajioka had suffered a humiliating defeat at Island. Kajioka had underestimated Wake's he was forced to limp back to base with two his complete failure, Kajioka wasn't relieved from more assistance for a second attack. Operations had concluded successfully in the first week, to command. Inoue thus assigned him the 6th two destroyers from the Gilberts to replace carriers , two cruisers and two destroyers that ground-support with their aircraft. Now, Kajioka attempt to take Wake Island, departing Roi Additionally, the arrival of the carriers Soryu that the defenders were going to be subjected to destroy all the remaining Wildcats and also At the same time that this was occurring, as well as President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Conference. The Conference would last until which we will discuss down the line, but the of the "Europe First" strategy, already proposed would prioritize offensives in Europe, while in By December 23, meanwhile, Kajioka's reinforced early in the morning. Under the cover of night, marines with naval and air support, hoping that and staging a diversionary bombardment over the Japanese started to land at Wake Island, locations and a further 100 marines landing on the ensued, especially around a 3inch gun manned fire on the patrol boats used to transport the Major Putnam and the crew of the VMF-211 squadron, Japanese attacks. Although Hanna would manage to Japanese still landed all their forces and got to Deveroux and Commander Cunningham in the dark, so last line of defense in front of his command post. had actually infiltrated undetected on the eastern line of defense. And at Wilkes, Captain Platt and then executing a surprise attack that inflicted weakened. But despite the marines' best efforts, trying to save as many lives as possible. The hold most of their positions on Wake for twelve reached them, but at that point, Deveroux and and could not check out on them because they assault. The fall of Wake would nonetheless but their sacrifice would not be forgotten. that the British presence in the island of New important naval bases in the Pacific: the Truk an invasion of Rabaul in New Britain and Kavieng General Horii was earmarked to carry out Operation main strength of Admiral Inoue's 4th Fleet. Due the Pacific, back on January 4, the Japanese had Australian-controlled Territory of New Guinea, in the South Seas Detachment departed Truk escorted the Australians had a garrison of around under the command of Colonel John Scanlan; while sent to Kavieng for the protection of the island including Carriers Akagi and Kaga sent over 100 Though the Japanese planes had been detected by Of York Islands, Scanlan only had two Wirraways when the enemy aircraft started its attack. fighters were rapidly forced out of action, with one suffering heavy damage. Then, the Japanese attacks against shipping, wharves, airfields hulk Westralia, setting aflame the Norwegian Rabaul's oil tanks, aerial defenses and several remained undamaged after the fierce Japanese 2/22nd Battalion covering the harbor area, with and on the Lakunai and Vunakanau airfields. Due to were concentrated at Vunakanau and demolitions a Catalina flying-boat discovered that four enemy route to Rabaul, and managed to send a warning to Scanlan moved all troops from the exposed the troops "to be massacred by naval gunfire", Raluana . Scanlan added that the troops were a decision which resulted in some men going quinine and other essentials. Finally, the Lae and demolitions were started on Vunakanau. 60 Japanese aircraft, which concentrated their airfield and along the ridge running laterally to Company had established concealed machine-gun fire and one crashed into the sea beyond Nusa Induna Star, the only transport of the commandos. the Induna Star at Kaut Harbour and demolitions the town could not be defended . The following airstrike on Rabaul, with 45 fighters and bombers the coast defense guns at Praed Point. With the Scanlan decided that there was no point in the evacuation and demolition of the town. Thus, island, completing the evacuation in haste around 400 SNLF marines landed on New Ireland town of Kavieng and engaging the small force of to blow up the airfield . After a fierce struggle, the Sook River, where they would start guerrilla that the enemy's probable landing places would be the possibility of part of his force being cut astride the connecting isthmus, he decided concentrate the companies south of Blanche Bay . plan was different, as there would be three sets Bay to occupy Vunakanau airstrip, the main force Point and Praed Point and invade along the a secondary force under Horii himself had to land from the sea. The aim of Horii's three-pronged numbers by attacking from all quarters so that defenses could be organized. During the cloudy anchored off the ocean coast, nowhere near where Horii ordered his troops to prepare for the from the black outline of the mountains of landing craft. Two hours later, the barges took gliding across the surface of the water under the but light from the erupting Matupi volcano and the craft to shore. Though the Nordup beach turned the bulk of the 144th Regiment managed to land rapidly moving to occupy Rabaul and Tawui Point . at Matupi Harbor, subsequently seizing Praed Point the administrator's house after overwhelming a The Kuwada battalion, meanwhile, began midnight. Its 8th Company was to land at Raluana to land south of Vulcan Crater to cover the right the shore, and no landmarks could be identified confirm the designated landing points. For this north of Vulcan , where they met heavy Australian company then moved southwards avoiding the front by the enemy's machine-guns and mortars. The 8th rapidly overrunning the weak Australian positions Battalion had to cut a path through the jungle to unlike the other two incident-free landings, were ferried across Simpson Harbour to assist rearward slopes of Vulcan in an effort to the Australian defenders had no other choice but same time, Scanlan withdrew his headquarters remnants of "Y" Company at Taliligap to Company to cover Owen's withdrawal . By 09:00, was rapidly becoming untenable as Horii's forces would soon have to withdraw behind Vunakanau . it was useless to prolong the action and ordered the Warangoi River or the Malabunga road, He added that it would now be &quot;every man for withdrawal in small parties. Meanwhile, the Kuwada successfully fighting off three Australian attacks Taliligap position shortly after midday. Finally, successfully seizing the airfield while the later, D Company also began its withdrawal, this point, organized resistance against the soldiers and civilians split into small groups the north coast and southeast to the south assembly points or emergency supply dumps. Only down the eastern coast of New Britain; for pandemonium in trucks and cars until these but often with little idea of where they were were struck down with tropical disease or carried out extensive mopping up operations including one particularly gruesome within two weeks, more than half the fleeing At New Ireland, meanwhile, the commandos managed attempted to escape the island, but the transport en route to Port Moresby , with the commandos soon on New Ireland had finished on January 24, with its neighboring islands for four days straight, at Namatanai would not be discovered and April and May. In the end, 34 Australians about 160 were massacred at Tol in early February Against this, the Japanese lost only 16 of the 1400 personnel at Rabaul successfully who later was promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel and the Kokoda Track Campaign. Out of the prisoners 1053 would be put on the Japanese passenger ship unescorted, the Montevideo Maru sailed from Rabaul Sturgeon torpedoed and sank the hell ship off of the 1053 Australian prisoners. Those prisoners aboard the Natuno Maru to a prisoner of war camp they were released in September of 1945. IJA engineers began repairing and upgrading the uneven and on soft ground, but Lakunai, next to it was suitable for fighters; and by mid-February, the Japanese, the military facilities and with Rabaul soon becoming the biggest Japanese South Pacific region. But the Japanese were during this period. The Americans, after their to respond and take the fight all the way to the led by the mighty and often invincible aircraft How did the US respond to Pearl Harbor? Enterprise as she narrowly missed being caught 7th 1941. She was however immediately brought to at dawn to scout the area and land at Ford Island. Japanese aircraft and anti-aircraft fire from the Dauntless were shot down from the Japanese and messages of the attack, she made the decision 6 Wildcat fighters, 18 Devastator torpedo bombers to find any targets and were diverted to Hickam upon entering the night sky of Oahu the Wildcats down, killing their pilots while a fourth aircraft the Americans. One of the first carrier operations Japanese began to attack on December 8th. Admiral was sent to relieve Wake Island while Admiral Lexington would undertake a raid on the island However while enroute to Wake Island, at 9pm indicating the presence of 2 IJN carriers and 2 William S. Pye to cancel the relief and redirect another tough break for the Americans. In the Norfolk for the Pacific via the Panama Canal. Diego on December 30th and became the flagship for Task Force 17 . Hornet was on a training mission crew was experimented by launching B-25 Michell know the meaning of the experiment and she would for the Pacific. Task Force 14 replaced Admiral sent to patrol the vicinity of Midway on December escorted convoys carrying marines to reinforce Force 11 commanded by Vice Admiral Wilson Brown Atoll. Task Force 8 commanded by Vice Admiral reinforcing American Samoa on January 11th. Samoan waters, Task Force 8 and 17 were dispatched Force 17 would strike Jaluit, Mili and Makin Wotje and Taroa. Task Force 17 was screened by in the predawn darkness on February 1st. At 17 Dauntless to strike Jaluit, while 14 Dauntless faced a fierce tropical thunderstorm with many aircraft managed to attack a few Japanese shore to return from the raid as a result of extreme attacked Makin Atoll also under poor weather. They flying boats and severely damaged gunboat Nagata but the pilots found no real military targets. from the Jaluit raid, Yorktown's destroyer escorts attacked by a Mavis flying boat and asked for her intercept. Pilots E Scott McCuskey and John firing simultaneously destroying it. Yorktown 1 Seagull floatplane from Louisville. Task Force neutralize a number of airfields to give itself enemy airstrikes. The issue Enterprise had was she thus she was forced to allocate 2 divisions of none of the Dauntless or Devastators would have have enough bombers and thus Cruisers, Salt Lake Chester would bombard Taroa. At 5:00am Enterprise consisting of 37 Dauntless and 9 Devastators the force came over Kwajalien the enemy began to the grounded aircraft, hangars and small buildings down, 2 by Claudes and 2 by Anti-Aircraft Flak. ships moored in the anchorage. They destroyed Yasukuni Maru and hit the cruiser Katori as Simultaneously the 5 Wildcats reached Wotje and "Nell" bombers and Claude's launching to intercept strafed and bombed the airfield. The Wildcats thus 9 Devastators and 2 Dauntless squadrons the air attacks it was not enough to neutralize began to bombard Wotje, whilst Chester and a pair tried desperately to attack the enemy and one the Task force to withdraw. Then 8 G3M Nells raced to bomb her as she launched 6 Wildcats to as close as 30 yards away from the Enterprise, all Wildcats took down 1 Nell before they withdrew. 15 warships damaged and light to moderate damage was 8 lost 5 Dauntless, 1 Wildcat and 1 float plane Gilbert Raids, Task force 8 was sent back to Pearl Force 16 . Task Force 16 was directed to depart which had been occupied by Japan since December on February 24th preparing to launch aircraft 36 Dauntless and 9 Devastators set to reach Salt Lake City, Maury and Balch had detached searches detected the ships before they arrived attacked them hitting no targets. The 4 US ships aircraft arrived. The Dauntless of VB-6 bombed hit a radio station and oil tanks. VS-6 hitting grounded aircraft and strafing gun fire and forced to ditch off the islands coast, also launched their Curtiss SOC Seagull seaplanes the north-west part of Wake. On their way out with Balch managing to sink one. The following Island situated 600 miles northwest of Wake. Task of Marcus and Enterprise launched a strike group strike force made it over the island whilst it was flares illuminating the island. The Dauntless of and oil tanks. VS-6 followed this up by hitting It turned out there were no enemy aircraft as 1 Dauntless was lit on fire from anti-aircraft both pilots were taken prisoner. The Japanese crucial San Francisco-Australian sea lane supply solve the threat by sending Task Force 11 to raid air strike followed by a surface bombardment. As morning of February the 20th they encountered an radar picked up incoming aircraft, so Lexington to intercept them. The patrol shot down they had sent word back to Rabaul prompting Vice from Rabaul accompanied by 4 cruisers against Task from Vunakanau airfield en route to attack. Task Rabaul and began to flee the area when at 3:42pm launched 6 Wildcats to intercept, followed by 4 of the first 9 Betty's to arrive were shot down , heavy fire. Their bombs landed 3000 yards shot down at the cost of 2 Wildcats who received but a Dauntless pilot shot her down. The second 4:49pm. With the majority of Wildcats chasing the to confront this formation. The 2 Wildcats made a V formation managing to shoot down 3 Betty's dropped their bombs missing Lexington by only would make it back home as they had sustained had lost 23 aircraft, 130 men at the cost of 2 The American raids had a major psychological Americans were willing to risk their carriers to Consequently, The Akagi, Kaga and Zuikaku naval forces raiding the Marshall and Yet The IJN carriers were unable to track the a new mission. By mid-February 1942, the Japanese on Timor were scheduled for February 20th, and shortly after. In order to protect these landings neutralize Darwin. Darwin, Australia, was the key outbreak of the Pacific War, several Australian to strengthen defenses in the Dutch East Indies Darwin had become an important Allied base despite its strategic importance, the city was and 2 3-inch AA guns to counter high altitude low-flying aircraft. The air forces stationed with CAC Wirraway advanced trainers, and the light bombers . They were also backed up by 9 13 Squadrons on February 19th after the evacuation 10 USAAF Curtiss P-40 Warhawks were passing would be attacked. A total of 65 allied warships Japanese fleet was commanded by Vice Admiral force comprised 188 aircraft from the Akagi, Kaga, the attack on Pearl Harbor. In addition to their Ambon and 27 Bettys from Celebes. The fleet was 7 destroyers and 3 submarines. This would be the history of the Commonwealth of Australia, and The IJN carriers launched 188 aircraft at 8:45am 36 Zeros. The Akagi contributed 18 Kates, 18 Vals Mitsuo Fuchida, who had commanded the first functional radar to provide Darwin early warning, Father McGrath of the Sacred Heart Mission on radio signal to Darwin. The message was relayed raised until 10am as the RAAF officers assumed Petty officer Yoshikazu Nagahama was flying a he arrived over Darwin early and alone. He engaged them. At 9:58am, the Japanese aircraft began the first ship to be attacked, strafed by several bombers commenced dive bombing and level bombing the first wave of Japanese bombers sank three other vessels. The U.S. destroyer Peary sank in transport Meigs sank, killing 2 people, and the was hit, causing a terrible explosion killing 45 Just before the attack, 70 waterside workers had pier that was hit, blowing many of them into are known to have died from the bombs or in killing nine civilians. All but one of the at RAAF Darwin. The remaining P-40, flown by 1st the first attack, and managed to shoot down bombed and strafed the base and civil airfield causing severe damage. The first wave lost up to 5 damaged. At 10:10am, the bombers began to make two Philippine-registered freighters lying outside second wave was made up of 54 land-based bombers, which arrived over Darwin as its sirens rang again wave separated into two groups flying at 18,000 while the other approached from the North-East. dropping their bombs, turning around and the Australian heavy anti-aircraft flak guns the high-flying aircraft. All the bombers made a on the RAAF base was extensive, but casualties B-24 were destroyed, and six RAAF personnel were a small number of Vals during the afternoon which had been noticed by the first wave coming Melville Island, with 11 of her 84 crew killed. Island, killing 4 of her crew. The bombing of support efforts to Java and the Philippines to be 11 above ground oil storage tanks, located on 236 people were killed with 300-400 wounded. 30 aground and 25 damaged. Over 681 bombs weighting which exceeded the tonnage dropped on Pearl Harbor aircraft damaged. The loss of life at Pearl Harbor estimated 236 for Darwin. As the attack leader, overwhelming force against such a soft target, "It was used to crack an egg, it was then". The victories would contribute to what many historians seen later on in the Battle of Midway. launched Operation K , an unsuccessful air boats against Pearl Harbor. They failed to and the Pacific Fleet and they only caused this raid was launched on March 10, but one of F2A Buffalo near the Midway Atoll, provoking Now, we turn to the island of New Guinea, where operation after the fall of Rabaul. To fully cut off the British dominion, the invaders were New Guinea and Tulagi in the Solomon Islands; but the Salamaua-Lae area to establish an air base for Back on February 8, the invaders had expanded from capturing the airfield there without opposition. Japanese would then prepare for the invasion of South Seas Detachment to capture Salamaua and its rapidly secured the area. They were to be escorted and six destroyers, under the command of Admiral also been subjected to an air raid by a US Wilson Brown that forced Admiral Inoue to delay bombers were launched to intercept the American of forcing the Americans to turn back, the loss the operation. To prevent another air raid over consisting of 4 heavy-cruisers, 2 light-cruisers Goto. Finally on March 5, the invasion force Under a violent storm, the Horie Unit landed on SNLF marines landed at the coast to the south of defenders had already retreated to Wau after of their facilities for the invaders. After only a its airfield and the town of Kela, while the SNLF the meantime, two task forces were assigned this time over the recently-established Japanese had achieved great success on their previous raids Minami Torishima, and Admiral Chester Nimitz, believed that this attack would have the advantage Brown's forces had advanced undetected to the Gulf where he ordered the SBD Dauntless bombers, TBD lift off and prepare for the incoming attack. At preparing to head for their objectives. This so the element of surprise was on their side. The around 09:20 and immediately started to bombard were at Lae, and they were repeatedly strafed by them, resulting in their complete destruction . some bombers approached targets of opportunity, minelayer Tsugaru and two more transports. heels of the Lexington group, repeatedly assaulted flagship. Although the Americans believed the control the damage after evading 67 bombs and Salamaua, inflicted severe damage on a seaplane Brown's strike, eight B-17 bombers from Townsville causing further damage on the facilities and Allies had inflicted large-scale damage during and was a portent of the future direction of had lost four vessels and had to send seven the successful counter-attack were hidden in the of Brown's raid though, the Japanese had achieved Allies had much to fear if Australia was cut off. For now, we'll return to the Dutch East Indies, of Java back in early March signified the but there were still small garrisons or guerrilla these places was Dutch New Guinea, which up until navy unit of up to 1500 men was formed on March and occupy the strategic points of that island. Ceram Island escorted by a small fleet under it first landed on Boela without opposition, From there, the invaders moved to Fakfak, Babo and then headed north, diverting to occupy Ternate and On April 12, the Japanese finally got to retreat into the mountains. A small garrison was force continued eastwards. By April 20, the encountering almost no opposition on any of the Dutch had an insignificant strength on the island, force, leaving only the small garrisons already of the ADBACOM, as we have seen, the Pacific of the United States. While General MacArthur was the remainder of the Pacific Ocean was entrusted the US Army and Navy divided among the commands of frequently compete for resources and accuse the cooperation between the Army and Navy. Yet today, between Army and Navy elements, something that the Japanese were also consolidating their gains every last one of their objectives with relative Plans for an invasion of Australia were drawn, but instead favoring renewed operations against so the Japanese would just focus on the New Guinea Samoa and New Caledonia to completely cut Admiral Inoue had sent Rear-Admiral Kanazawa Masao naval force to occupy strategic points in these units would first head to Buka Island, airfield before returning to Rabaul. On March 28, at Shortland Island two days later. From there, where the 20 Australian commandos of the 1st inland to later be evacuated. Soon, the invaders where they would further build naval and air bases Inoue would also send Japanese forces to Islands and Talasea , while also starting to his next main objective. But amidst Inoue's force the Japanese to switch their main efforts forces were sent to the Allied-controlled southern lifeline for Australia, Admiral Ernest was planning a bold bombing raid against the long-range bomber bases in the Philippines think outside of the box for this one. The only a carrier-borne attack, like those the Japanese but the American aircraft carriers would have to any of them would be fatal. Here's where Captains a plan to launch land-based B-25 bombers from a their weight and increase their fuel capacity, but raid from a safer distance. The only issue was the Americans decided that the pilots would have to negotiate with Chiang Kai-Shek for the use of was weary of possible Japanese retaliations, the plan was for Admiral Halsey's Task Force 16 carrier Hornet, and get within 400 miles of bombers , commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel James strike against the Japanese mainland on the the Japanese mainland and the Imperial Palace was 5th Fleet of Vice-Admiral Hosogaya Boshiro, armed merchantmen and gunboats, patrolled the boats and picket ships that were deployed offshore the Japanese counted with the 26th Air Flotilla composed of land attack and carrier-based naval to General Prince Higashikuni Naruhiko, mainly interceptors and some prototype Kawasaki Ki-61 assigned more importance to their expansionist not believing their enemies were in any shape to war. But they were wrong. On April 2, Task Force final preparations and training for the strike. Pearl Harbor to intersect with the course of the 13, then continuing west towards Japan without picket ship Nitto Maru sighted the American force who decided to send his ships and the Kido Butai actually expected to engage the Americans the miles close to Japan. In turn, Halsey sent some followed by the cruiser Nashville, which managed been discovered, Halsey then ordered to launch farther than planned, so Doolittle and his pilots Hornet at 08:20. Meanwhile, Halsey would rush back and safely arriving on April 25. The launch was attack in daylight and cover a longer distance. into five flights, which would hit different objectives at noon, completely catching the been alerted but were not expecting an attack so Tokyo, dropping their bombs over several military the area covered in a smoky haze. Some Japanese bombers, but they were amazed to see their bullets that they had effectively shot down three no bomber was shot down. Aside from Tokyo, three warehouses and dockyards, with one of them causing which was being converted into the light the last flight of three bombers dropped their useful information over facilities and defenses bombers made their escape southwards, very large 5th Fleet's aircraft arrived there, the Americans bombers then successfully flew to China, to where one of them had to head north to the Soviet Union Edward York would then crash on Soviet soil, where in China, but due to fuel shortages, bad weather to crash on the interior of China, so all the 16 lives and eight pilots getting captured by the Raid had been a complete success. Although the that the Japanese were not really invincible, and leaving the Japanese shocked about their had been humiliated and would have to increase homeland to 250 planes. As a result the IJA began to prevent the eastern coastal provinces of China Due to this humiliation, Yamamoto then decided was imperative for the safety of Japan and for In that regard, he wanted to meet the US Navy in a Although originally there had been opposition one to blame for the Doolittle Raid, so the focus the Western Pacific offensive. Thus, the Japanese the major turning point of the Pacific War. has proven its military might unstoppable as from Nanking to the island of Java and from at the main base of Rabaul, Admiral Inoue prepared he had at the time successfully achieved all his region , the continuous air bombing attacks Moresby and northeastern Australia proved to be admiral had selected the capital of Papua as his aircraft could also target northeastern Australia as those carried out against Salamaua and Lae, had something that forced the IJN to put on hold until sufficient naval and air forces could be the hands of Admiral Yamamoto, who at this point Central Pacific, specifically against the island a decisive battle against the American carriers. Osami , opposed this plan, stating that this could to be fought in the enemy's backyard. But as we've collapsed after the disastrous Doolittle Raid, so who believed in controlling an interlocking Japanese far flung perimeter in the Pacific, he was thankfully granted the 5th Carrier Port Moresby operation before it was used against into several phases. First, Rear-Admiral Shima down the Solomon Islands to establish a seaplane flank of the operation. Then, the carrier task Coral Sea to execute a series of surprise air Inoue believed that there would be no American in the Doolittle Raid as IJN assumed all but one so he judged that the air bases at Townsville operation and had to be quickly neutralized. expected Allied naval forces to appear, so the Sea to intercept them. Finally, Admiral Kajioka's haste towards Port Moresby to land the South Seas companies of SNLF marines by May 10. They would Marumo Kuninori that would also set up seaplane the convoy's transit. Furthermore, both invasion included the light carrier Shoho, commanded by American codebreakers had successfully deciphered alerted of the impending attack on Port Moresby. Nimitz then decided to send all four aircraft Sea to disrupt the Japanese offensive. Two of the Tokyo raid and, even though they departed Sea in time to participate in the operation. This assume the offensive, under the overall command of Fletcher's Task Force 17 was to depart Tongatabu would be reinforced by Task Force 11 , led by supported by General MacArthur's Task Force 44 and Area. Meanwhile, the Japanese were carrying out also faced some reluctance from his admirals, on April 29 to cancel the carrier-borne the invaders finally put in motion the operation from Rabaul, covered by Goto's fleet . By May 2, and the 24 Australian commandos in Tulagi began in the island before evacuating themselves as on that night, around 400 SNLF marines Tulagi and Gavutu supported by aircraft immediately beginning construction of the planned needed reconnaissance over the eastern Coral Sea. on the central Coral Sea but had not yet been against the Japanese at Tulagi. Concurrently, cover Kajioka's convoy, so the Japanese had no launched its first wave bombers, achieving Kikuzuki. The same aircraft then turned around bombers soon followed. The resulting raid was very and four landing barges. A fourth strike by strafing the five Type 97 flying boats on Tulagi it for the price of revealing that there were raid over Tulagi had surprised the Japanese on the Takagi's carrier force. Back on May 1, this force trouble as they were unable to complete their to Rabaul but bad weather had been preventing provide the necessary air cover for Tulagi. quickly rushed to the southeast to retaliate, but the American admiral rendezvoused with Task Force The following day, with all his forces merged task groups in preparation for battle. During this Sea in search of the enemy, and although Fletcher carriers, he was unaware of their location. to attack Japanese Port Moresby invading force, with reports of the location of the IJN force and boat managed to spot the American force, compromised. He also believed his enemy to of Port Moresby, so he headed to the Lousiades to refueling to the northeast when the flying boat's south to chase the contact, but Admiral Hara was forces managed to get close to one another, but scoring a deadly blow. At this point, however, Kajioka's invasion convoy had departed Rabaul time the battle was going to occur; and Marumo's Deboyne Island to construct a seaplane base there. Fletcher was heading straight towards him. At dawn for one another, Fletcher sent a group of cruisers prevent the Japanese convoy from passing south of this point, as whoever got it first would have the things wouldn't turn out so marvelously. What his his escort, upon reporting this, Takagi allowed Shokaku ; and upon getting there, the 78 aircraft were surprised not to find a carrier force. and in 18 minutes, both ships were left sinking. carriers until the afternoon, something that was could not launch another strike that day, luckily Furthermore, he was now receiving reports that so at least he knew the location of the American admiral also received information northwest of Rossel Island, but Fletcher was so he decided to send a total of 93 aircraft had been directed against an incorrect objective an area rich in more suitable targets. In the the north until the engagement was over and Goto against the enemy. Unbeknownst to him, these Lexington's air group, led by Commander William of the best-coordinated carrier-borne attacks of a Zero and two Type-96 A5Ms, which only got to SBD-3 Dauntless dive bombers were dropping their port to evade her attackers. Initially, this was hits that caused massive fires in the hangar deck. the TBD-1 Devastator torpedo bombers fell upon At this point, Yorktown's air group arrived and, they successfully hit her with around 11 bombs apart and with a death toll of 631 men . By noon, but Fletcher decided against launching another nightfall. Although Fletcher was happy with his at the same time. He had been spotted southeast bombers from Rabaul quickly fell upon him. Crace's luckily prevented a disaster, suffering only light For Inoue, Operation MO was now in shambles, the north while also sending two heavy cruisers to now depended on the success of the carrier search to the west. They would be followed by find nothing in the area. On their return home, yet they thought they were their own. Intercepted upon trying to land on the carriers, the Japanese their loss would leave them outnumbered the close to one another, with the Americans moving in a favourable position for the incoming carrier to carry out their final scouting operations they were looking for. Yet again, Hara would be which was reported south of the Louisiades. A Japanese were east of the Louisiades in an area prepare the strike, but it would be the Americans 75 aircraft were already en route towards Hara's the 69 aircraft of the Japanese had managed find themselves in such horrible weather that they led by Lieutenant-Commander Oscar Pederson, was it could only score two hits on the carrier , air group then arrived, but, scattered by the the Shokaku, inflicting heavy damage but overall none of the torpedo bombers were effective during Takahashi, on the other side, was far more and 23 SBDs on patrol duty, yet the American they started their attack. Immediately, 18 torpedo that attacked Yorktown missed all their shots, an anvil attack and scored two clear hits on the Takahashi's dive bombers were the next to strike despite the anti-aircraft fire, managed to hit on her. 14 bombers also attacked Yorktown, but the actions of the Wildcats only allowed them to score in all, Lexington had been badly mauled, but it actions of the defenders, however, had shot down ditched or jettisoned due to the sustained damage. down two additional Japanese planes, including 87 aircraft for the Japanese, added to that of aircraft, plus the Neosho and the Sims, although done by the torpedoes on Lexington would prove to retreating south and Hara was retreating north, caused large fires and forced the Americans to it was still unknown to the Japanese, and with Inoue had no other choice but to declare the Deboyne Island was evacuated by May 12 and the Takagi and the Zuikaku tried again to search long gone. The loss of one aircraft carrier was a tremendous strategic victory and had stopped their success during this battle would directly While the Americans had suffered a key loss with Japanese air and naval forces had also been light aircraft carrier Shoho had been sunk, the she had to head back to Truk for repairs and the amount of aircraft losses. For the Japanese, the annoying, but knowing that the Shokaku and Zuikaku significant. They believed that at least they so the four Japanese carriers assigned for Admiral Yamamoto was still rehearsing his planning to support it with a surprise strike attention of the defenders and to neutralize the their codebreakers and cryptanalysts were hard at place and time of Operation MI, as well as the Admirals Nimitz and King immediately started to to draw plans for a trap that had the potential decisive engagement was brewing in the Pacific. had been unsuccessful, Admiral Inoue approved the of the Nauru and Ocean Islands. These two islands richness in phosphate, a resource mined for making invasion fleet under Admiral Shima, mainly built assembled to invade Tulagi, departed Rabaul for detachment of around 400 men towards Nauru. Okinoshima was outright torpedoed by the American minelayer suffered enormous damage from the attack Shima then moved his flag to the destroyer Yuzuki he continued onwards towards his objective. But as Admiral Nimitz had sent all of their aircraft Fletcher's carriers had quickly arrived the two carriers under Admiral Halsey that had in the area. Acting on the obtained intelligence Nimitz directed Halsey to head towards Nauru as a Japanese reconnaissance aircraft from Tulagi proved to pay off, as Admiral Inoue had no which lacked the air cover to safely conduct had been disrupted by the appearance of enemy just like the invasion of Port Moresby was. War Two were the midget submarines, also known as tons, crewed by very few submariners and normally launched and recovered. Italy famously used 3 of Alexandria on December 19th 1941 which placed attack killed 8 crew, disabled 2 battleships, developed its midget submarines late into World of Europe and later disrupt supply lines with X-Craft to place timed-explosive charges on sea used the X-Craft during Operation Source in which Lutzow based in Kafjord Norway. Tirpitz was over seven months. Unlike its British and Italian submarines intending to employ them during fleet from seaplane carriers to run amok through the a result of the emergence of carrier supported focus of their midget submarine program for the harbors. What emerged was the Type A Ko-Hyoteki were making preparations for their attack on diversionary attacks in the hopes of convincing the south or west of their recent conquests. Six Eastern Attack Group led by Captain Hankyu Sasaki Auckland and Sydney. On June 8th, 1942 both "Glen" floatplanes for an aerial reconnaissance vulnerable targets . Meanwhile early on May to pick up Ko-hyoteki-class midget submarines at Islands. I-28 was torpedoed on the surface and Truk on May 17. The remaining submarines outfitted enroute for the Solomon Islands. I-24 was forced battery compartment blew up, killing the midget not a great start for the Japanese. Luckily the Earlier on May 16th, the I-21 and I-29 had select targets for an attack. I-29 was sailing vessel Wellen and on that evening fired upon damage resulting in a scramble of anti-submarine 24 hours they failed to find the submarine naval officer in charge of Sydney Harbor to had left the area. On May 23rd, I-29's floatplane Cove's radar unit detecting the aircraft, they expected allied aircraft operating over Sydney presence of two battleships or large cruisers, numerous merchant shipping. The Allied Fleet Radio partially intercepted the floatplanes report and Muirhead Gould allegedly did not react to I-21's floatplane, piloted by Ito Susumu performed with the mission of mapping the location of major observers spotted the floatplane and wrongly the allies realized they had no aircraft airborne Wirraway fighters to locate the aircraft. They FRUMEL had intercepted more radio chatter between indicating that a submarine or multiple submarines defence measures were put into place at Sydney. By 35 nautical miles northeast of the entrance the I-27, I-22 and I-24 dispersed in an arc releasing their midget submarines. The Sydney indicator loops , six outside the harbor, between South Head and Middle Head. A partially between George's Head on Middle Head and Laing of the net was complete, but wide gaps remained anti-submarines HMAS Yandra and Bingera, auxiliary numerous patrol boats armed with depth charges . HMAS Canberra, HMAS Adelaide and multiple lesser launched at 5:20pm, followed by M-24 and M-22 Middle-South Heads loop at 8pm, but the reading minutes later a watchman spotted the M-14 passing Pile Light, reversed and trapped its stern in the as the watchman rowed toward it to determine what Yarroma to report his finding. Yarroma passed on only got there by 9:52pm. HMAS Yarroma and Lolita object was a midget submarine, Lolita dropped two requested permission from HQ to open fire as 10:35pm the M-14 activated its scuttling charges, forward section. At this point Muirhead Gould gave that there might be other enemy submarines. M-24 which reported the contact to command but nothing undetected at 9:48pm and followed a Manly ferry she was spotted by a searchlight of the moored its 5inch guns and quadruple machine gun mounts. and she inflicted only minimal damage. The senior prepare for departure and for the USS Perkins to orders were revoked by the sceptial Captain Howard that night Muirhead Gould was hosting a party Bode. HMAS Whyalla and Geelong began firing upon bridge where at midnight it was able to submerge she found herself west of Fort Denison and turned opened fire on M-24, M-21 slipped into the harbor illuminated her, sending an alert signal to HMAS fired off 6 depth charges. It was assumed the most likely by taking refuge on the harbor floor. observe blackout conditions and at 11:30 set off boarded Lolita at midnight and allegedly began their reports. Junior officers recount a similar both crews later claimed Muirhead Gould and Bode order Garden Island flood lights remained M-24 fired two torpedoes, most likely at USS close to USS Perkins starboard bow and the other hitting the breakwater Kuttabul was tied up sinking her and damaging K-IX, 19 RAN and 2 proceeded to dive and tried to escape the harbor. She was found in 2006 by seven amatuer scuba had multiple bullet holes suggesting USS Chicago's her . Ships were ordered to make for open sea 3am Chicago spotted a submarine periscope passing the harbor. At 3:50am, HMS Kanimbla fired upon the Sea Mist and Yarroma spotted M-21 around depth charges with Sea Mist scoring which inverted and rose to the surface before charge which inflicted damage on her own two 17 more depth charges. At some point during The 5 Japanese submarines waited off Port Hacking of the midget submarines. I-22 left the group to Auckland and Suva while the other four submarines I-24 patrolled south of Sydney, I-21 patrolled and I-29 patrolled Brisbane. I-24 managed to Iron Crown on June 4th and I-21 sunk SS Guatemala Australian waters to sink 3 more ships between Sydney on the morning of June 8th. Just after Lighthouse and fired 10 shells at Sydney Harbor Suburbs with the last landing in water. I-24 artillery batteries from retaliating. USAAF pilot, disobeyed orders and took off to try and find causing his Airacobra to crash into a paddock at at 2:15am the same day north east of Stockton the BHP steelworks. Her shells landed all no fatalities. Fort Scratchley returned fire, but on Sydney harbor was a failure for both sides. several warnings of Japanese activity on the east mentioned . The performance of Muirhead Gould and on the night of the attack. The Japanese had lost sinking of a single barracks ship. The proceeding three merchant ships and caused minimal property midget submarine attack on Sydney Harbor had no weeks to support the attack on Sydney proved a the 21 dead sailors aboard Kuttabul could be 200 Navy personnel attended a burial ceremony for bodies of the four Japanese crew of the two midget improving the conditions of Australian POW's cremated the four Japanese bodies at Eastern over their coffins and rendered them full naval but defended his actions based on respecting authorities noted the funeral service, but this conditions for Australian POW's. During the guerre d'escadre "fleet vs fleet warfare" and warships. The IJN doctrine was built around the as was done at the battle of Tsuhsima. They role was to locate, shadow and attack Allied task merchant shipping in the Pacific and Indian Ocean vast minority of missions. The IJN's doctrine of posing a threat to allied merchant shipping. By submarine fleet sank 184 merchant ships. In ships and the Americans 1079. Japan lost roughly tons of cargo. The submarine campaigns against feats in military history when it comes to the effectively destroyed. Japanese merchant ships everything required for the nation's war effort, The allied war against Japanese shipping led Japan's failure to reciprocate or hinder the war Almost six months have passed since the that gave birth to the Pacific War. In this the one that was better prepared for war and the as they rapidly steamrolled across the Burma, the Philippines, the Dutch East Indies pressure on important countries like Australia US feel threatened over a possible invasion. The things would quickly go downhill from this point as well as the carrier battle at the Coral Sea, forced Admiral Yamamoto to seek a decisive battle he was sailing into a trap... a trap that As we've covered previously, the origins of the Doolittle Raid, which saw Admiral Yamamoto Central Pacific, with the ultimate goal of American Pacific Fleet. Yet for this, he had fleet carriers for the planned invasion of Port the Japanese ambitions were checked by the Admiral Fletcher, which managed to leave the employed in the invasion of Midway. The cost, they lost the carrier Lexington while the Yorktown On their estimates, the Japanese believed they had his four remaining carriers of the Kido Butai on the other side, American intelligence had of invasion . Admirals King and Nimitz knew to conduct their offensive, even having at their the enemy. Immediately, the American admirals battle while also preparing an ambush that had was adamant to employ the 7 battleships Nimitz knew that the way to conduct naval warfare power now laying with his aircraft carriers . In West Coast out of harm's way, while he endeavoured The other two carriers of Task Force 16 , under battle, along with the impressive 115 aircraft which could provide him the ability to have Nimitz' carriers would be awaiting under a point 325 miles northeast of Midway, from where destroy half of the Japanese carrier force. This had envisioned to catch the Americans with their had planned to use Admiral Nagumo's carrier force assault reminiscent of that of Pearl Harbor. Island while the invasion fleets advanced towards would land on Midway, while the Ichiki Detachment 1500 marines was to capture Sand Island. Yamamoto their naval forces on Hawaii, leaving the Japanese build bases on them and carefully lay up a trap of Fleet out of the war. For this trap, the Japanese including a secondary attack against the Aleutians that the odds were in their favor. Once the the dispersed Japanese vessels would converge on Yamamoto, the Japanese battleships would play the enemy battleships and delivering a final from the 6th Fleet were also to be employed on the Midway, with the intention to scout their strength harshly criticized due to this overly-complex full surprise and to disperse his overwhelming considerable fleet , led by Admiral Hosogaya, which included a carrier strike on Dutch Harbor clearly secondary objectives unworthy of the invaders too far away to actually participate in the operation was off to a bad start, as Nagumo's day later than scheduled. Even though this at Midway, Yamamoto didn't see fit to make any Task Force 16 departed Pearl Harbor under with Yorktown doing the same - 72 hours later she repairing her as she sortied. Although Nitmitz American forces, the senior admiral was in so the experienced Fletcher was given command of Spruance was put in charge of Task Force 16 out of assuming command, Fletcher launched 20 Dauntlesses carriers to a new position 175 miles west of to gather useful information over the enemy were attempt at Operation K due to the strong American the 6th Fleet's submarines arriving late at the American carriers had already passed. On the the first Japanese fleets started to arrive spotted by American PBYs and suffering some aerial Luckily for the Japanese, Nagumo's carrier force and then started to launch 108 aircraft , led by Midway during the early hours of June 4. Although Captain Cyril Simmard, the commander of the Midway PBYs for search operations. This resulted in the from Midway by 6 Wildcats and 18 F-2A Buffalos air battle turned out to be a disaster for the only shooting down 2 Zeros due to the large pilots. Tomonaga would then go on to strike damaging support facilities there but receiving the end of the attack, the Japanese had failed to lost some 25 planes , which forced Tomonaga to were particularly heavy on the carrier Hiryu, 18 that it originally carried. While the Japanese taking place. During the early morning, the PBYs carriers and alert Fletcher of their presence whoever could attack the other carrier force first the Americans had wisely dedicated considerable a total of seven aircraft to fly to a range of 300 Fletcher ordered Spruance's carriers to head south aircraft was reserved was because Fletcher was two Japanese carriers. At 07:00, Spruance Hornet's planes quickly got into the air, as their second deckload ended up delaying its groups from the same carrier. Meanwhile, a wave from Midway to Nagumo's location and started to had devoted 29 Zeros for air patrol, so the An hour later, the second wave under Major Lofton but met the same fate as its predecessor. Half of struggle, including that of Henderson . A third consisting of 11 obsolete SB2U-3s, then appeared, of only 3 bombers. Around this time, Nagumo had Midway, using the aircraft that had been reserved As he hadn't received any reports so far, he in the area. Yet just as the strike group was detect a task force of at least 10 enemy ships in report, Nagumo suspended the second wave's strike, The so called-Nagumo's dilemma left him two hand to take initiative, conducting a piecemeal Midway requiring to ditch or wait for returning because IJN doctrine did not endorse &quot;Piecemeal enemy carriers so early on, and now most of bombing. Although Rear-Admiral Yamaguchi Tamon an immediate strike, Nagumo decided to wait for not to take any action, instead hoping to quickly initiative to the Americans. In the meantime, had been discovered by the enemy, so he decided to to support Spruance's strike against the 1st Kido and was by now arriving at Nagumo's location. At had been recovered, the first 15 Devastators Hornet's torpedo planes, which then fell upon by the 18 Zeros that were on air patrol. In a destroyed by the invaders, failing to hit any launching their own counter-strike. As the attack and more fighters , which were running out of from Enterprise headed against the carrier Kaga. objectives by the Zeros, but at least five of the rest of Hornet's strike force had having been given bad coordinates for the attack. to return to their carrier or to Midway, with to low fuel. Luckily, Enterprise's dive bombers, managed to locate the Japanese vessels through an they were arriving, so was Yorktown's air group, enemy. Facing 41 Zeros on patrol, Yorktown's began their approach towards the Japanese carriers towards the Wildcats, resulting in a series Devastators of Lieutenant-Commander Lance Massey carrier Hiryu . At the same time, with most of the torpedo bombers, McClusky's and Yorktown's bombers bombs over the carriers Soryu and Kaga. By 10:25, were scored on Soryu, causing extensive damage on Seeing that Akagi might survive the attack bombers from Yorktown aborted their dives on Kaga Best himself managed to score a hit on the aft upper hangar and causing a huge explosion among last of the strikes was carried out by Massey's Hiryu but failing to hit the carrier. With the of 67 aircraft but had destroyed 14 Zeros and and Kaga sank that afternoon with the loss of 1522 shocked Nagumo that refused to leave his flagship, then getting scuttled the next morning by orders of the last remaining carrier , immediately after the departure of the Americans. Mustering reinforced with 27 Zeros that were on patrol, the Yamamoto and Kondo's fleet started to advance to the cruiser Nagara had decided to turn his surface units. At 11:55, Kobayashi spotted Yet his fighter escort was miles behind, so when formation was shattered. Only seven of Kobayashi's approaching Yorktown from two directions. In the expertly maneuvered around the enemy carrier and starting large fires all over Yorktown in one of Japanese had lost 13 of their bombers, Yorktown mortal damage, so Fletcher decided to move to the to support the burning carrier. Upon getting Admiral Yamaguchi decided to commit his retreated from the Midway attack with many Americans. Led again by Tomonaga, the makeshift Kobayashi's group was recovered. At this point, had been restored , so when Tomonaga got sight attacking the same carriers Kobayashi had attacked on patrol, with 8 more coming to reinforce them escorts were used effectively, giving Tomonaga's Yorktown. Flying a damaged plane , Tomonaga by the defenders but managing to maintain control drop. Unfortunately, his torpedoes missed, as did five torpedo planes would go unrewarded. But then invaders, surviving several attacks by Wildcats Two of these torpedoes hit the port side of the devastating effect. The five torpedo planes would with four of their escorts, while the Americans, the listing carrier . While this attack was forces coming towards Task Force 16. At 15:30, led by Lieutenant Wilmer Gallaher, to finish off strike for the afternoon, Yamaguchi was taken by 17:00. With the 13 Zeros on patrol outnumbered, just five minutes later. Although they lost against the carrier, penetrating the hangar deck Yamaguchi decided to go down and perish with his He was arguably the best carrier officer of the Hornet then appeared, heading to attack targets of attack of June 4 concluded, Yamamoto still hoped victory. He replaced Nagumo for Kondo due to his and sent the submarine I-168 to shell Midway. until June 5, thus leaving the Japanese forces to order the final cancellation of Operation MI upon assuming command of the American forces, any surface engagement, which was what Yamamoto Spruance began to launch strikes against the the destroyer Tanikaze, which shot down four Additionally, Admiral Kurita's four cruisers were trying to evade an American submarine. After cruisers Mogami and Mikuna suffered a new strike twice while Mikuna received five direct hits and hit, the heavily-damaged Mogami managed to escape salvaging efforts were being conducted on could be successfully salvaged. Yet the sudden Yorktown, hitting her with two torpedoes and also torpedo hit. At 05:00 on June 6, the carrier the battle had been a huge success for the 144 aircraft on top of the vessels recently four of its carriers and the cruiser Mikuna, as successful and it would take a long time for the carrier force crippled, the Japanese would lose for the Americans to go on the offensive. Alaska, and the Aleutian Islands in particular, dangerous invasion prospects, both by Japanese the 1922 Washington Naval Treaty banned military including both the Kuril Islands and the Western American northern flank extremely vulnerable, with taken almost overnight by a hostile force" . By the horizon, the American government had begun the allocation of $350 million for defense, the of military bases across the territory. Under the Western Defense Command would be established unorthodox Colonel Simon Buckner Jr. to command was to construct an adequate air force, and as the Aleutians via funds he had embezzled. He the now Major-General Buckner had 5 operational meantime, the Alaskan navy was assigned a small Guard cutters and S-boat submarines, while a small Warhawks and obsolete B-18 Bolos was delivered Harbor, however, the hard-working Buckner now operable airfields supporting 45000 Army coast artillery regiments and a tank company . put in command of the recently-established 11th bombers . As for the Japanese, like we've already invasion of the Aleutians and a strike at Dutch with the invasion of Midway. Operation AL was Admiral Hosogaya of the 5th Fleet, divided into Butai of Rear-Admiral Kakuta Kakuji, two invasion destroyers, a submarine detachment , a seaplane the heavy cruiser Nachi, and a distant covering previously said that this operation was used by giving the Americans the notion that they were chose to meet the Japanese in battle at Midway. purpose, as they could cover the northern flank of shield Japan from any future American strike this is what modern historians believe nowadays, the operation as a feint to lure the American done with Operation MI, American cryptanalysts and an offensive against the Aleutians, concluding Midway. Admiral Nimitz then decided accordingly while the bulk of the Pacific Fleet was directed sending Rear-Admiral Robert Theobald's Task Force King. Built around 2 heavy cruisers , 3 light and other naval units , Task Force 8 had the to which it arrived on May 27. Theobald and oppose the Japanese landings and to reverse the Northern Force had been assembled at the Ominato day later. The Japanese would invade Kiska Island Detachment of Major Hozumi Matsutoshi, consisting was charged with the occupation of the islands intelligence had successfully identified Kiska yet Admiral Theobald disregarded this information, warrant an invasion and therefore choosing to Kodiak on June 1, heading to a position 500 miles much due to the strict radio silence imposed for Kakuta's carriers had gotten to their launch point concealed by the dense fog of the Pacific coast eight minutes before the northern summer's local with some 46 aircraft , led by Lieutenant his pilots might not know how to return to their the thick fog from flying in formation, way towards their objective, but their flight who had taken part in the strikes at Pearl Harbor was too low for effective dive-bombing. Thus, leaving only 19 aircraft under the command of on Dutch Harbor. The Japanese were expecting they would be met by US fighters from Cold Bay Furthermore, the defenders had been expecting General Quarters an hour before the detection of the seaplane tender Gillis around 05:40. Five made a strafing pass of Dutch Harbor's facilities, on air. Immediately, anti-aircraft fire erupted in the harbor, yet they couldn't prevent the over Fort Mears' installations . Sixteen two barracks and three Quonset huts, while the Mount Ballyhoo without achieving much damage. transmitter and destroy another Quonset hut, and an Army truck and some naval facilities at Power had been achieved , and the vessels at harbor, his strike over, Samejima led his torpedo bombers Warhawks by ten minutes. Upon learning that there dispatch a second wave of 33 aircraft to destroy weather iced up the planes' carburetors, forcing 4 Type-97 E8N floatplanes from the cruisers discovered by Umnak's Warhawks and suffered two Kakuta's carriers were spotted by two PBYs, yet they were quickly shot down. The Japanese Admiral of Adak, but he was disappointed with his Dutch second attack instead. On the morning of June actually report Kakuta's location before getting six from Cold Bay were launched to strike at the heavy fog and had to abort. Only one B-26, under to find the enemy, but he was shot down without and Captain Robert Meals' Marauders from Umnak their attacks were very unsuccessful as well. At Kakuta was at last able to launch his second under the command of Lieutenant Abe. By 17:40, the and got to destroy one PBY that was intercepted Abe's dive bombers began to attack Dutch Harbor's 6666-barrel steel fuel tanks, some 22000 barrels attack was followed by Lieutenant Masatake on the top of the seaplane hangar at Mount damaged an ammunition storage before departing Port Glenn had come to meet them, resulting in a and two P-40s destroyed. Concurrent to the second developed unfavourably for the Japanese, resulting Butai. Alarmed about his failure to decisively ordered the 2nd Kido Butai southwards to join the American forces. But Kakuta was already committed that his carriers had to refuel and that they After conducting a successful refueling during its travel southwards on the morning of June 5, who by now had realized that the Midway disaster retreated and Kakuta advanced to rendezvous with launch a worthless scouting operation over the Dutch Harbor was imminent. With the American the nearby Adak Island was also discarded, yet Kiska and Attu anyway. On the night of June 6, the put ashore at Kiska's Reynard Cove and rapidly 02:15 on June 7, the 10 American sailors deployed awake by the overwhelming attack of the Japanese mountainside and survived for a couple of days they eventually had to surrender . At the same Major Hozumi's North Seas Detachment was only the difficult task of climbing the difficult soon, the island was taken and its 44 inhabitants AL concluded, Yamamoto dispatched a strong fleet Aleutians. Meanwhile, with the Battle of Midway the aircraft of Admiral Spruance's Task Force the 2nd Kido Butai. But just as Spruance had reconnaissance managed to discover the Japanese feared that the Japanese land-based aircraft so he decided to recall Spruance's task force The Japanese then began to turn the islands in the North Pacific, bringing a wide array of anti-aircraft guns. In response, the Americans interning some 881 native Aleuts in relocation villages to the ground so the enemy could not use had been a disaster, with the full extent of it managed to secure a foothold in North America, American population. But, as Buckner said, having terrain and of the staunch American defenders, But it will be their children who get as far as to the States. And by then they'll all be American their newly-conquered islands, Buckner, Theobald long-range air-sea war of attrition would thus US was in no position to launch a major offensive "Thousand-Mile War", the Americans would launch Kiska in the month of June alone, including the American intelligence detected Kakuta's carrier it was a renewed invasion of Alaska. This the first mass airlift in US history, in which 140 to Alaska through 46 seized civilian aircraft. his lost territories, he had now been sufficiently force that the Japanese could throw at him. territories in North America to be attacked by Harbor, 9 submarines of the Japanese 6th Fleet They were tasked with performing reconnaissance submarines would go a step further and carry On December 10th, the Japanese learnt that an the US mainland and sent 9 out of 12 submarines enemy carrier. After a stressful 4 days, the was established for the submarines, they were Pacific coast and begin attacking allied merchant of the Japanese submarine forces, would direct for the operations. These 9 submarines had a range around 23 knots, armed with up to 18 torpedoes December 18th, the I-17 attacked the US freighter, The I-17 fired 5 times upon her with her 5.5 inch feet shot one torpedo which passed under the Samoa explosion made the Japanese think she was hit allowing the Samoa to escape to San Diego. On Oil Company's tanker, Emidio , 20 miles off the the Emidio upon discovering the I-17 a quarter outrun the raider but was rapidly overtaken at 20 the first shot taking out Emidio's radio antenna. ship hoisted a white flag and the crew took to carrying 3 crewmen who fell into the water and total would hit the Emidio before the I-17 would responding to the sos sent out 15 minutes prior. leaving. After the planes left the I-17 resurfaced stern, passing through her engine room and killing flee the scene. The Emidio drifted until it ran January 1942 . At about the same time Emidio was SS Agwiworld 20 miles off Cypress Point near stern of the ship alerted the Captain, Frederick the I-23 tried to get broadside of the frantically her while simultaneously firing. The I-23 shot and submerged in failure. On the morning of SS H.M Story was 55 miles north of Santa Barbara stalked her for over an hour. When the H.M Story 3 torpedoes missing her with each. A US Navy forcing the I-19 to submerge and flee the scene. sailing from Port San Luis bound for Vancouver, luckily hitting the only compartment not loaded as the I-21 began to shell them at point blank safety, the I-21 opened fire with machine guns visibility was quite poor and no one was wounded. schooner Barbara Olson was sailing for San Diego her seaward side. None of her crew would know launched from the I-19. The torpedo had gone under the I-19 was a few miles north off Point Fermin the Catalina Channel. The I-19 shot 2 torpedoes lumber into the air and killing a man. Though but instead managed to beach herself off Fort on December the 20th and as a planned finale to the 8 remaining submarines were to make attacks mainland targets to fire 30 rounds each from their islands. However on December 22nd an unexpected December 27th from Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto. Christian festival out of fear of offending their of American reprisal attacks. 5 days later Rear headquarters the submarine force was low on fuel Yamamoto called off the attack altogether. Despite Farallon Islands decided to do something daring. Nobuo fired at least 1 torpedo at the Golden Gate and embedded in a sandbank of Marshal's beach attacks of December 1941, US coastal defenses were Axis ship would shell the US mainland. At 7:07pm, fireside chat, the I-17, captained by Nishino Kozo Refinery . The I-17 proceeded to fire the first tank stored behind the beach. Most of the shells as duds . By 7:35, assuming the Americans would and retreated. The attack did only slight damage had been attacked! Local residents of Ellwood trying to escape a potential invasion. Captain to defuse the dud rounds and one detonated sending only assigned service member to receive a purple American soil. The submarine attacks of December and the American people's paranoia of possible I-17 it set in a hysteria. On February 24th, the an attack on mainland California could be expected a report was sent out to anti aircraft batteries that enemy planes had been spotted. Air raid Los Angeles County and a total blackout was rushed to their positions. At 3:16am, the 37th caliber machine guns and 12.8 lb anti-aircraft sporadically until 4:14am. Several buildings, with 5 indirect civilian deaths . This became and in 1983 the air force reported the entire weather balloon and war panic. On June 7th, the the Aleutian Islands Campaign, began to stalk Juan de Fuca . The I-26 fired a torpedo hitting her quickly. Then the I-26 turned her attention to the I-26 was patrolling the coast of British Estevan Point Lighthouse. The I-26 began to open attack on Canadian territory since the Fenian at Estevan Point heard the salvo's crashing staircase to warn his wife to take cover before he stayed to observe the shelling, fortunately lighthouse . Although the I-26 failed to hit its effect on coastal shipping as all lighthouses use by the enemy. Near where the Columbia empties an American military installation built near held 10 inch coastal defense guns, antiques left disappearing guns . The fort was manned by the Battalion led by Lt Colonel Lifton M. Irwin and midnight, the I-25 captained by Meiji Tagami mine fields in the area, when it surfaced at the rounds from its deck gun in the direction of Fort so he ordered his gun crew to fire as quickly Lt Colonel Lifton M. Irwin ordered an immediate men to return fire which would have revealed their baseball field destroying its backstop. another next to a concrete pillbox and one I-25 made a hasty escape after doing little to no the Aleutian Islands campaign helped create the so many operations doing minimal damage one challenge to strike at North America. Warrant during a deployment in the Aleutian Islands above Kodiak Island at 9000 feet and observed that complete indifference. This led Fujita to suggest utilizing a Yokosuka E14Y "Glen" floatplane. This launched from submarines to perform reconnaissance folding wings and was transported in a watertight as the I-25. The proposal was endorsed by Prince who was enticed by a Japanese official who had Seattle Washington, who mentioned that late summer was decided, the air raid would drop incendiary 15th 1942, the I-25 left to make what would be the a reprisal for the Doolittle raid. On September and his bombardier, Petty Officer Shoji Okuda bombs. They flew 50 miles eastward passing over National Forest, Howard "Razz" Gardner spotted and the first bomb and 6 miles farther the second. damp from rain to allow for the fires to develop Keith V Johnson hiked to Wheeler Ridge where throughout the night to contain the fire and by help. Fujita performed a second raid on September that no one would expect a repeat attack. He flew release over Grassy Knob near Port Orford Oregon. wet foliage refused to catch a wild fire. 20 years Brookings, just 10 miles due east from Wheeler would not face a war criminal trial, Fujita served At the festival, Fujia presented his family's his regret . Brookings treated him with respect visits to Brookings serving as an "informal Fujita sponsored 3 students from Brookings-Harbor him with a deciatory letter from Ronald Reagan . and in 1992 he planted a tree at the bomb site as Fujita was made an honorary citizen of Brookings october of 1998, his daughter Yoriko Asakura, Though the Japanese started the war with a bang, of Southeast Asia, completely crippling the taking most of the American Pacific possessions, lead directly to two of the most decisive and the Kokoda Track. Already, we can see that the yet the Japanese were also prepared to fight to time would eventually prove that a fight with but it is during this early period that to heal their wounds and build an arsenal big all of that thanks to the brave men and women against a Japanese behemoth that was at the height zenith of its glory. They could have cowered in eventually managed to turn the war around. But, of their story; the beginning of the Pacific War. this video, get the game for free More long-form videos and more videos so make sure you have subscribed and pressed subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and youtube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals