Hi everybody. Coconut is a fruit that grows in tropical regions. It has a hard shell, white flesh and nutritious juice. Coconuts are widely used in things like food, fuel, and building materials. In this video we talk about products made from coconut. A few of them will surprise you. You will feel relaxed while watching this video. Please subscribe to our channel and like the video. Coconut tree is drought tolerant and requires low maintenance. This tree can live up to 100 years. The method of collecting coconuts is usually done with long poles. Coconuts have great potential as a sustainable food source. Indonesia, Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Brazil are the most important coconut producing countries. Coconut shell has a hard and fibrous structure. They usually remove the shell using a sharp knife or machete. As you can see, this method is a bit dangerous, but it is the most commonly used method. Coconuts, separated from their first shells, are taken to factories for processing. Coco peat production. Coconut peat is a material obtained by processing coconut shells. It is widely used in horticulture and agriculture. The washed, dried and ground coconut shells are then passed through the sifting process. Coconut peat in different sizes is pressed and packaged. This material has a light and airy structure. It is also excellent at retaining water and can also release it slowly so your plant can absorb it better. It is an excellent material for cultivation in hydroponic and aeroponic systems. Coconut cream. Coconut cream is a delicious and versatile ingredient. It can be used in desserts, sauces and many other recipes. This is how production is done. White meat is ground and mixed with water. The mixture is filtered to obtain coconut milk. Coconut milk is separated into cream and liquid milk through a process called centrifugation. The cream is concentrated to obtain a thicker consistency. The cream is pasteurized to destroy microorganisms and extend its shelf life. The pasteurization process includes heating and cooling stages. Coconut cream powder. Coconut cream powder is a product made from dried ground coconut meat. Coconut shell charcoal. Coconut shell charcoal is obtained by burning coconut shells. It is known for burning intensely and producing very little smoke. Coconut Oil Production. Coconut oil is a natural oil obtained from the flesh of the coconut fruit. It is solid and white in color and has a tropical aroma. Coconut oil is used in cooking, cosmetics and medicine. First, the shells of mature coconuts are carefully separated. The shells are then used as raw materials for the oil extraction process. Coconut meat is grated or sliced and dried. Drying can be done in the sun or in the oven. Coconut oil is rich in medium chain fatty acids such as lauric acid. Coconut oil contains antioxidants that may help protect cells from damage. Coconut oil may help speed up metabolism and promote fat burning. Dried coconut meat can be separated from oil by two methods. Pressing and cold squeezing. In the pressing method, coconut meat is pressed using a mechanical press. This method allows obtaining high amounts of oil. Heat may be used during the pressing process, resulting in producing unrefined or cracked coconut oil. Unrefined coconut oil undergoes chemical and physical processes to remove unwanted odors and flavors. Refined coconut oil has a lighter color and more neutral taste. The final process is packaging. Refined or unrefined coconut oil is packaged in bottles, jars or other containers. Coconut fiber mat and coconut rope. Coconut fiber mat and coconut rope are natural products made from the fibers of the coconut husk. They are durable and versatile materials that are used in various areas. Coconut fiber mats can be used as decoration and floor covering material in areas such as gardens, balconies and terraces. Coconut rope can be used in areas such as carpet weaving, basket making and furniture making. To date, humanity has made the most of the coconut resource. And it looks like he will benefit from this in the future.