Jurassic Park is a movie that needs no one anyway, because that's how the Based on the 1990 novel by Michael Crichton, guaranteed to be a smash hit. The book was attached to direct, and Jeff Goldblum was willing And success is exactly what it found. If you were at least twice. And if you died in 1992, you were it made all of the money in the world. The world giving it to Jurassic Park as well. dinosaur spookums, dinosaur Well, we all know the answer to that, did we get them, both for the first film and for They have their fans, but so do serial killers. we will indeed be ranking every The rules are simple. In fact, I just told mobile games, LCD games, and so on. However, for browser games. We're doing this for a couple of them. And second, so that you can see how understand why we'll never cover them again. created his own game called Amazon in 1984. do with Jurassic Park, but look for it on our They Were Bored Ranked from Worst to Best, Let's rank 'em. from TripleJump...and welcome...to Every Jurassic #38: Scan Command: Jurassic Park (2001) Do you know what I love most about self-checkout and scanning them into a temperamental reader avocado and a bag of gym socks. Pure bliss. and you also love dinosaurs hitting each hands on Scan Command: Jurassic Park. This game and combines it with the thrill of dinosaurs Each time you scan a barcode, you are ostensibly to win fights with other dinosaurs, who presumably Critics were not impressed, with their complaints They reported issues with the scanner not time it failed. They raised concerns of needing so your house for them than actually playing the of the scanner being so unresponsive that he #37: The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) Say what you will about the Game.com... the knowledge that I am not alone in my suffering. between two of the characters from the film: Sarah as being the character Julianne Moore played, You'd think the choice would affect gameplay, but it just changes which mess of pixels will blur doing literally anything else with your time. stages. I'm telling you this because you'd Game.com has roughly the graphical capabilities The game also came out for the R-Zone...I think. as this one or if it was specially designed commercial made it look as though your eye is in but the only gameplay footage we could rectangle trying to squeeze past another #36: Jurassic Park: Paint PC that Jurassic Park: Paint and Activity Center was Pix. I think it's more accurate to say that it effort out of fans' wallets as possible. The game that this was designed for very young children. children? The movie was PG-13. Certainly nobody over the age of zero would want to play this. which feature voice acting in the same man muttering to himself on the bus, your ride stories than they are disconnected slideshows words often enough that they clearly shouldn't Also, we understand that the art in but if we didn't already tell you this were this were Laura Dern or He-Man? It's dreadful #35: Dinosaur Stampede (2018) If we can count on anyone to bring us people behind the most embarrassing Doritos, whose scientists were so preoccupied with they didn't stop to think if they Dinosaur Stampede features clips from the such as a riveting scene in which Chris Pratt Flash-style cutouts that somebody's nephew strung is to move a gyrosphere either up or down to avoid And even though they clearly do have dinosaur are represented by a Road-Runner-styledust cloud. into hazards, or brake, if you'd like to be eaten Real prizes were up for grabs, but we'd imagine World merchandise to your cart on Amazon than eventually winning a baseball cap. It wasn't much #34: The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) The Lost World for the Game Boy has a plot. You play as a character so bland, he almost this game might as well have started life is. The goal is ostensibly to find eggs but the more immediate goal is to see how long and asking God what you did to deserve The levels are large and mazelike, with no clear to go there. The controls are fine, but you it difficult to tell which gaps you can clear of unwelcome backtracking. The foretracking is bad Every so often Harvey Keitel calls you up Sorry, Harvey. This isn't the first time I've #33: Jurassic Park Explorer (2007) It's another ranked-list first We haven't covered any topics at least that we know of, so it's not as starting now, we might do just that. and a game board, and you'd be forgiven for former.The instructions tell you to take turns but there's no goal on the board. All you do is select from the DVD menu. You could do that or you could just play the minigames in The DVD has a measly seven minigames, guessing which dinosaur you see through the fog, as low-effort as something can get Strangely, the box suggests that you can "play at people bought hybrid DVD/board games with the #32: Trespasser (1998) I bet you expected this to be at the very bottom were. Trespasser is not a good game. It deserves than the reputation of brain-eating amoebas. feels more like you play as a marionette made the way in which your character responds to these human body - went on to inspire games like Octodad is that those games knew that this was ridiculous. then puts you in control of a Gumby figure Trespasser provides a full gaming experience than it is. The only way to know how much verbal cues, so good luck picking those out by looking ata tattoo...on your...come on, guys. I but even they would think this is gratuitous. out by Computer Gaming World for a special was...oh dear. Right. It is all bad; ignore me. #31: Jurassic Park III: Island Attack (2001) Games are supposed to be fun, right? I'm the point is that they're meant to bring you because Jurassic Park III: Island Attack Island Attack is an unresponsive, repetitive, concepts imaginable, from pounding repeatedly on jumps on a tiny screen, to trying desperately something - anything - even once, for god's sake. you and want to drain every ounce of enjoyment game cartridge in half and spit it into a roaring ending, in which you continue to own this game. medium of animal vomit, it controls like rather than commands, and it sounds like Playing it is every bit as much fun as waking #30: Jurassic Park III: Dino Defender (2001) Dino Defender is often considered because its developer - Knowledge Adventure and partly because it's as bad as And yet there's very little that can be You control the little robot from Power Rangers other than say "ay yiyi" and sing about Jesus. throwing a switch now and then. Periodically escaped from somebody's box of Colorforms. sometimes remind you of Oddworld...at least in "Why am I not instead playing Oddworld?" game aimed at young children, but the lack of like to do in a dinosaur game, and "manage circuit Progress in the game does unlock printable trading "printable trading cards" might be the #29: Jurassic Park III: Danger Zone! (2001) Danger Zone! was developed by...Knowledge Adventure? my sanity intact. This one takes the form of indeed quiz you on dinosaur facts, but being learning about something, so I don't think Players take turns moving around the board, expect of them, and then asking their parents reuses some graphical elements from Dino wouldn't be able to successfully forget that game. multiplayer, but Danger Zone! has an upper limit game significantly less versatile than most nature of the experience, there's no reason that been implemented. Not that you'd ever find but still. It's the principle of the thing. entire entry without quoting Kenny #28: Jurassic Park (1993) When Jurassic Park released in theaters, its the most visually impressive movies that had holds up today. It's puzzling, therefore, spectacle in the first home video game, the the NES was far from a graphical powerhouse, but Park, it's pretty clear somebody isn't trying. with dinosaurs, which as a description is far Instead of being played by Sam Neill, Dr. Alan costume. It's your job to walk in circles, collect dinosaur eggs and mystery boxes, which The game was also ported to the Game about the NES version was that you could we actually recommend this version on the grounds #27: Jurassic Park (1993) Is the SNES version of Jurassic Park the same on this one, and if you disagree with where all of these versions in one long entry. but it's sure not better enough to matter. version, and plenty of others are similar enough a few tweaks that take advantage of the hardware, Those are clearly noteworthy, as implementing building is an impressive feat, especially on a resembling fun, they're difficult to navigate, and Why rank it higher, then? Well, it's either, and this does - technically - which suits a Jurassic Park game. Also, the so...playing the game is still like being in hell, #26: Jurassic Park (1993) For flip's sake, is every Jurassic Park this version of Jurassic Park looks like we discussed, but it is different. For instance, That's...something? It also contains unique levels unfortunate development during...development. develop Jurassic Park games, and certainly that could. That's why these games look the same; made and adjust it for different hardware And so when the team working on the PC they adopted the visuals and mechanics more because the PC development team allegedly had a in evidence in the finished version, such as a feature in the movie. Left to their own devices, approach entirely. Instead, they inherited a hey, at least the first-person sequences are #25: Jurassic Park Interactive (1994) How do you convince people to buy a console that, $1,300? If you answered, "With an exclusive answered "With an exclusive Jurassic Park minigame I'd say that Jurassic Park Interactive were but I honestly think that quality never connected reskins of older games, only times. Just what we always wanted, eh? have wanted...you know...a Jurassic Park game, you shoot at giant floppy disks. The game allowing forsome serious "you've captured their There are a few sequences that are bigger Half-games, maybe? Half-arsed games, more like! dilphs, for short - while nothing happens; and navigating a maze full of velociraptors #24: Jurassic Park 2: The Chaos Continues (1994) Despite the name, Jurassic Park 2 was not based on for thinking that it was, being as they're both At first, the game seems to have some decent each of which has a distinct explanation of of any of those missions and be faced with the six missions even drop you into exactly the same would be less of a problem if the game were fun, how much fun do you think it is? but that's about the closest we can get to a the difficulty is absurd, and you only quickly, I'm pretty sure it qualifies as a completely at odds with the actual game, and Alan for a starring role in the next Contra. The #23: Jurassic Park: Dinosaur Battles (2002) Jurassic Park: Dinosaur Battles is one weird but you're ultimately controlling dinosaurs issue with Jurassic Park was that there issue with Fight Club was that there weren't The plot centers around the work of Dr. Corts, who who would battle each other to the death. I don't even know if she called the project you stumble across the fruits of her labor, you with skills you unlock through DNA sequencing. the animations of each fighter rarely feel like and there aren't enough playable dinosaurs to a dinosaur fight club, the developers missed it's you vs. the A.I. in the fight of a All of that said, it is weird and at least tries, which isn't something #22: Jurassic Park Institute Game Boy Advance when you realize that it's just a minigame Dinosaur Rescue makes at least partial sense: It developed with the assistance of paleontologists. have gone over well - I confess I did not in order to attend a lecture in a language I tacky and disposable as souvenirs traditionally none of which are about dinosaurs being or "dinosaur" and "rescue" being These games involve avoiding stampeding dinosaurs, with a Tyrannosaurus Rex. One thing you've absolutely adorable, with everything having it a huge amount of personality and helps it literally the only thing this game has going for screen with five very basic score-attack games as digging up. Wait, have I used that joke #21: Warpath: Jurassic Park (1999) Michael Crichton reportedly starting writing Cloneasaurus- in 1983, meaning that it revision, and rewriting before the book hit become a pop-culture juggernaut. However, he to a game as bad as Warpath, so it balances out. other. That's it. You can pick the dinosaurs at which they hit each other, and you can hit each other. It's a one-on-one fighter that short of simply not putting a disc in the case. at least serve as a fun novelty. However, It's as basic as a fighting game can possibly "quite unrealistically," according to that was clearly typed by someone with #20: Chaos Island: The Lost World (1997) Chaos Island: The Lost World is a Chaos Island: The Lost World is a strategy possibly want? I mean, "a better one" It's unfortunate that Chaos Island isn't as great Not least being the fact that the actual cast acting. This includes big names, such as Julianne fly-daddy himself Jeff Goldblum. And the central squadron of fighting dinosaurs - is excellent, all-ages appeal of Jurassic Park very well. as the game doesn't become interesting and never your dinosaur friends on groups of hunters and is fun the first few dozen times it happens but a bad game, but for all of its potential it ends a great game in its DNA, but that DNA needs #19: Jurassic Park III: The DNA Factor (2001) This is not a game in which Simon Cowell scours the A plane transporting jars of DNA (...right...) (...right...) and it's your job to run around, (...right.) I guess. DNA was in the movie. Actually, Mind blown. Anyway, you get to choose difference being that you'll either regret playing nucleobasesthat are roughly the size of your head, real life. Seriously, if your nucleobases are the No part of The DNA Factor is fun, least boring levels that occupy several planes without judge what's ahead of you as opposed to It does contain some important We learn that the scientists didn't do anything just played Puzzle Bobble with adenine, cytosine, #18: Jurassic Park (1993) What did every child love about Jurassic Park? to each other, of course. But some very strange understand it, but here we are. BlueSky Software demographic with their Jurassic Park game for the dinosaur...as well as Sam Neill with arthritis. real effort obviously going to the one in which the better of the two modes, mainly because it's and the soundtrack appears to have been composed much fun. Playing as a raptor and shredding little but the blind jumps and awkward controls if you wanna get cretaceous about this. the sense that he doesn't go flying off to navigate tight platforms, but it's still become briefly weightless. It's better than what #17: Jurassic Park - The PC tie-ins, we usually get...well, versions of the cupcakes along the way, or some such thing, charts very different territory. The game is a 1993's The Journeyman Project. Superficially Project was made to promote a log flume. designers of the real-world ride were evidently the premise of the ride is also that those who designed the fake dinosaurs that were meant dinosaurs. Did I say the premise was interesting? As you click around and get mauled by terrible backstory, including the fact that and that the park employees evidently enjoy did I say interesting? I must have meant "deeply #16: Jurassic Park (1993) Jurassic Park on the Mega-CD is a decent - if have some effort invested in it. The story takes wigged out and killed everyone. You play the remaining eggs, so that dinosaurs may continue Many sources claim that the game has a real-time Yes, if you do stand around doing nothing I'd be impressed by your patience - but moving various tasks will drain the timer much even more frustrating. Not only will you need when, where, and how to use them...with the in spite of the fact that a mouse Jurassic Park is not compatible, leaving you It's not a particularly fun game, and there's much better than the grainy animations we string of barely interactive FMVs. God knows #15: The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) The ability to play as a velociraptor in the Mega point. It was such a selling point that people It makes sense, then, that The Lost World contains them!...as well as some people you'll only bother It's not a great game, and it's more than a Jurassic Park games were still following 8-bit players feel what it's like to be on both sides animal in the crosshairs, and learn what it's only chance of survival. And the game succeeds that life stinks as both a person and a dinosaur. as a Special Edition, giving fansa playable because it meant you could give up much earlier #14: The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) In The Lost World, you are Roland Tembo, played in the film, hunting is a major drive for the you have the option of either gunning down The former is certainly easier, but the latter and powerups. It's a simple system, but it goes a otherwise have been a simple dinosaur massacre. great. On-foot segments offer vehicles to keep which you both give chase and are chased - are sounds great, right? Right! The answer is right. being as repetitive and tedious as we'd Missions consist of simply walking around almost completely squandering the potential that World for the Mega Drive is not a low-effort #13: Jurassic Park: The Game (2011) Hey, remember when Dennis Nedry dropped the we've got the story of what happened See? Nobody cares. For a story that takes place you'd think that Telltale could have something the audience stopped caring about When Telltale is doing great work - such as with writing carries the experience far beyond however With Jurassic Park, though, that writing rarely There's also an annoying tendency for characters While the story does provide a number of suggest that they wouldn't at least want to Surely they should be able to work together or hacky writing? You be the judge. or the word of any other critics. It's the players giving it a wealth of 10 out of #12: Jurassic Park III: Park Builder (2001) Jurassic Park III: Park Builder is easily lost in game in which you manage the park itself, nor was for the GBA in 2001. They released threegames As such, it's easy to view Park Builder another glance. Not a long glance, mind you; in the series and all of them were better, but It's extremely simple, with little to do other but it's also deceptively challenging, with money to turn things around once your finances start that their dreams are untenable. resurrect prehistoric species, Jimmy; lemonade stand is going to be any different? #11: The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) The Game Gear version of The Lost World which is saying next to nothing, I know, but I'm little platformer. And I do mean little, as you you to sneeze. Still, it controls decently in a truly inspired idea, you can tranquilize That's so perfect that I can't believe Actually, looking back at how little can believe it. I'm sorry I lied to you. doesn't always make the best use of them. For boss is doing this with his legs. Still, though, (What? I have long sneezes.) but it does slow down along with the rest of the screen, making it sound like the digital #10: Jurassic Park: Rampage Edition (1994) In spite of its title - which makes version of the previous Jurassic Park game game that serves as a sequel. At the same BlueSky took the opportunity to correct That game released two months after the film much of an exaggeration to call it a rush after the film, giving the developers more The result is a game that revisits a and executes all of them better. The controls are is...well the controls and the level design are for a more colorful style with thick, comic-book velociraptor or Dr. Grant. Why is Dr. Grant back If BlueSky really were trying to give us "Jurassic succeeded. I just wish they'd gone for "Jurassic #9: Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis (2003) Have you ever watched Jurassic Park and thought, If not...why not? That guy did a terrible job of you led your guests directly into a dinosaur's Regardless, Operation Genesis gives you a chance Zoo Tycoon-style, with the ultimate goal of seems pretty unnecessary. You've got the only anybody care if the Michelin Guide only gave it "Oh, we'll try Cretaceous Circus instead." Anyway, now that I'm done venting my nearly two decades ago, I can say that It even has a Site B mode that allows you to likely confusing the hell out of the give dimension to these creatures beyond #8: Jurassic Park 2: The Chaos Continues (1994) It's surprising enough when a Game Boy game but when it's this much better it's miraculous. of the developer as a saint. Jurassic Park is perfectly competent, which means it's the SNES game. It's a fairly standard platformer confusion that saturated the maze sections more straightforward here. Strangely, it's guys; one more and developer Ocean is The game features boss fights and auto-scrollers too difficult. And while the necessity of sounds tedious, it's really not too bad. In fact, you wonder why they bothered putting them in than it is a breadcrumb trail. it looks and sounds better than the SNES game as it's official. Call the vatican. We need to #7: Jurassic Park (1993) One of the better Jurassic Park games tends to honestly, makes sense; the SNES and Sega's own every respect, and the Game Gear wasn't exactly game. And so when most kids in 1993 asked they almost certainly asked them for The Master System and Game Gear with the former obviously having the superior latter do lead to some issues, such that the driving sequences seem to have you it's a good platformer that controls well and It's also pretty short, however, with a Collect all of the Jurassic Park icons, though, five whole stages! This one ends with a boss this the second Worst to Best video to feature #6: Jurassic Park Arcade (2015) The name may put you in mind arcade game, and that's almost certainly Arcade - developed by Raw Thrills - is more of multiple films. Raw Thrills actually purchased enamored by that game's sense of pacing and but the resulting mashup of Jurassic Parks past Its intentions are good and its graphics are employees had never worked on a rail shooter to life. There were also troubles with the as members of the development team each had their It is nice that the ultimate goal of the game Of course, in order to capture the dinosaur at hundreds of others along the way...ah well. Can't eggs, am I right? I am not right, otherwise human beings #5: Jurassic Park III (2001) Sega's two arcade games went out of their "tranquilizer darts" at the dinosaurs rather than you were knocking them out. That dinosaur haven't exterminated a species; they went on a Jurassic Park III - developed by Konami - you're mowing down living history with hot lead; The previous arcade games weren't exactly moving quickly along, eliciting exactly the sort gimmicky shooters work so well. often has you standing motionless while but a sense of repetitiveness sets in early there's not the same need to keep pumping you instead feel like it's None of which makes Jurassic Park III and this is a perfectly competent which both had more love invested into them and #4: Lego Jurassic World (2015) Xbox 360, Xbox One, 3DS, Vita, PC especially if you were underwhelmed by Jurassic first four films in the series, reimagined as the when you step on them in the middle of the are likely to find something to enjoy here, and keeps things from ever feeling too familiar. games of this era leaned upon a kind of template, it's a sturdy one, and it's hard not to feel through little plastic trees on their way to eat If you've watched our Every Star Wars you'll know that Darth Vader is Chewbacca's handheld devices are usually quite different the vast majority of the experience is intact on small amount of content you'd lose with those Actually, it's also on the Switch now, so #3: Jurassic Park (1994) In 1994, Sega released the first Jurassic Park experience with both rail shooters the game they produced was perfectly within a miniature Ford Explorer and get bumped "Hold on to your butts"? More like, I am not right, because the vehicle's motion and was unlikely to disorient anyone, let alone That should keep our legal team happy The game was a tie-in to the first film, You and a friend take on the roles of who survived the disaster on Isla Nublar in didn't shoot more dinosaurs on the way out. They It's a genuinely great game, and it "family-friendly monster movie" atmosphere of sequences. It might not be the best Jurassic play - but it deserves high marks for actually #2: The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) Sega's arcade game tie-in for the first one. The company then got to reimagine the difficult to say whether or not it's superior. game was a rail shooter that lacked the literal World has light guns, making for a more exciting though that's not to imply that the first game was exclusive to Japan- introduced even advanced hydraulics, and a gust of air that would which is the cutest thing in history. promising that scrapped levels and features That never came to pass, as the Dreamcast fared did. But whatever else it could have been, the Superior to the first one or not, And apparently it is superior. Just look at the rankings #1: Jurassic World Evolution (2018) With a lot of these "Jurassic World" games, actually "Jurassic Park" games with some have attempted to give fans the opportunity to but none have been better than Jurassic World further, with park management being one part your own park being another. Never before right down to the inevitable escape of the Critics, a bit surprisingly, were divided on some called it too complicated. Some called it genuine case of there being no "correct" way to developer Frontier not only for the work they did afterward, in the form of patches and updates. cast reunion, with Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Jeff Conspicuously absent is Richard grounds that he died four years prior. Typical. &quot;Spared no were smarter and just watched some highlights World Evolution 2, and it has every chance of it's worth being grateful for what we've got.