Video hoped would go together like cheese and toast. Instead, it's typically more like cheese Still, they keep trying, and we can't think than by making you suffer with us through Before we begin, let's go over the rules. For starters, we are grouping franchises together. Reboots get entries of their own, but sequels that preceded them. We know that may not be a popular choice, if we didn't group them, it would be almost No matter how we slice it, though, we still You've been warned. Also, we will only be considering theatrical movies or direct-to-video movies. And though it probably goes without saying, games - such as King of Kong or The Wizard as Wreck-It Ralph or Tron. The films are ranked primarily in terms of intake, but we employed some common sense Only a bit, so don't worry; you'll still wrong we are. Additionally, prepare to hear the British Rotten Toe-may-toes. We hope you will forgive us. And finally, a rule you've all been waiting that includes mobile games. Please hold your applause. Let's rank 'em. I'm Benand I'm Peter from TripleJump, from worst to best. #75: This movie was the result of filmmakers seeing Tekken license was available for free. They decided on a lark to scoop it up and inciting a riot. At least, we hope that's what happened; anyone involved tried to make this movie any Tekken was released direct-to-video in most Japan and the Philippines, which was somehow It does hold an impressive 0% on Rotten Tomatoes, That's an achievement in itself. #74: You may or may not remember Dead Trigger. In 2012, it wasa decent first-person shooter It was hardly a cultural phenomenon, but you the then-nascent mobile gaming market. So when Dead Trigger was made into a movie 2019? Somebody made a decade-old mobile game into What...? How...? I'm speechless. Well, I'm not, but I can't curse on this Anyway, I'd love to tell you what people have any critical reviews at all, proving this. #73: Alone in the Dark II (2008) of awful films. It therefore takes a hell of a lot for one but Alone in the Dark is up to the task! Itaveraged 1% on Rotten Tomatoes, which, if too generous. Director Uwe Boll took the original script it into a mindless action film. It got a sequel, but if you really want to one from 1982. The title is coincidental, but it has just films do. #72: The classic video game Double Dragon was a Los Angeles in search of a magical medallion, I mean, it wasn't; it was just a game about in the duodenum, but don't tell the people We're sure they worked very hard on it and For instance, did you know there were zero Excellent work, Double Dragon.The movie was you could probably have worked out on your #71: Uwe Boll is at his UweBolliest in House of which means it should have pleased fans just are. House of the Dead holds a score of 3% on Rotten most beloved films. One of the few positive reviews came from severe head injury. They praise it for doing an "incredibly makes me wonder if they have any idea what means. #70: (2008) It doesn't matter. This is anotherUwe Boll film, which means redeeming qualities, and has a single-digit The Dungeon Siege name itself is irrelevant; It's about a group of terrible actors and They speak words from a script they were handed on. Our heroes contend with poor effects, plot The story continues in two direct-to-video #69: Remember the game BloodRayne? Maybe not. It was alright, but there's been no shortage 2002. Remember the movie? Definitely not, because if you went to see The film was an incomprehensible, idiotic it was directed by Uwe Boll. BloodRayne earned back less than 15% of its until you see its 4% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Its first direct-to-video sequelwas released Even the distributors knew nobody would buy #68: For a genre that doesn't lend itself very of adaptations of one-on-one fighting games. In fact, there have been a fair few Fatal one to secure a theatrical release. Did it deserve one? Well, about as much as any movie about people Critics were pleased with the animation and cast of characters, but the storyline - focusing - pleased nobody. If only other kinds of video games existed. Say, "action" or "adventure" games. Then maybe the story would have fit... #67: Far Cry is a fine example of virtuoso director upon another franchise that is forever elevated Wait, sorry; I misread that: Far Cry is yet Uwe Boll leaving his stink all over something Making back less than 3% of its budget, Far fans of movies, and fans of being alive. Ubisoft has expressed interest in bringing They've even revealed that they will give every way: that being anyone who is notUwe #66: A freeware horror game popularized on YouTube an impressive life of its own. It has been adapted into a series of anime who don't wish to sleep anymore. It was also adapted into both live-action The animated film moves the story from a mansion of Corpse Party. It should have tapped into that game's writing movie is worth enduring. Fortunately, the live-action films are better. Unfortunately, you won't have to wait long #65: With The Legend of Chun-Li, the filmmakers live-action Street Fighter film in every way. They succeeded in outdoing it in terms of The Legend of Chun-Li sits at a score of 5% 11% seem like a cause for global celebration. To this film's credit, it can't be easy other until one of them dies, and focusing is probably the best way to go about doing To this film's discredit: everything else. #64: Uwe Boll's Postal is the lowest-grossing Though, thanks to Dead Trigger, it only holds Taking its inspiration mainly from the game spirit of obnoxious, grating nonsense. The film opens with an extended comedy routine of Sept. 11 - yes, really - and ends with in a field. Yes. Really. Boll attempted to crowdfund a sequel (in which, through time to assassinate Archduke Ferdinand), certainly wouldn't cover the cost of your #65: Monster Strike The Movie: Sora no Kanata (2018) app of all time? Of course you can; we wouldn't have posed Monster Strike. The game's fanbase in Japan is huge. Unfortunately, the English-language web is Strike The Movie and its sequel. There aren't even many reviews. The most informative one we found was on Letterboxd, "Though it's a classic story, it tells That's it. Honestly, even if I had been able to watch it any better. #62: Gujian, a series of Chinese RPGs, has drawn I haven't played them and therefore can't that certainly suggests that the games are Legend of the Ancient Sword, based on Gujian brings with it a flurry of media attention. And yet, Legend of the Ancient Sword bombed, it to be good. The movie immediately became one of the Chinese down there with Lobster Cop. Which, I promise, I have not made up. #61: From the first game's release in 1990, it heavy inspiration from sci-fi cinema. It wasn't until Wing Commander III, though, scenes into the games became realistic. That game features live-action cutscenesstarring McDowell. It was a smart idea; there must have been that design team... All of which makes it surprising that when opera of its own, it was utter rubbish. Reportedly this was due to a last-minute script Maybe the real problem, though, is that it #60: Ao Oni ver2.0 (2015) film; it was adapted into a live-action film group of characters played by different actors. They even have near-identical posters. Eachreceived middling reviews. They're in Japanese so we can't read them, that gave Ao Oni such massive exposure to majority of their criticism went towards the of the first film, an ending that negates Wasting your time watching these? That's the real horror. #59: The Movie (2014) Music Award: Minna de Sho o MoraimaSHOW! (2015) The Targeted Magical Aikatsu Card (2016) arcades, you may not be familiar with Aikatsu! And I...haven't spent much time in Japanese Not that I think I'm the target audience actual, collectible cards to help digital Several games were released for the 3DS, but Ditto the anime series and movies. That's probably fine, as critics described longform adverts for the cards. Is that an unfair assessment? I think we can all agree I am not qualified #58: Many games have become movies, but Street a movie that then became a game. What's more, it becamea really bad game. Was it as bad as the film? Could either answer be considered a positive Critic Leonard Maltin said the movie "should No Sex." If anyone has any clue what he meant by that, One common bit of misinformation is that Street Raul Julia. In truth, Julia appeared in Down Came a Blackbirdone Is it good? Well...could it be worse? #57: Final Fantasy XV was released in 2016, though actually finishing it. Content originally planned for the game was Kingsglaivealsoconsists of material that was nobody would buy DLC that was just a longer it as a movie instead. Offering absolutely nothing to those who hadn't little to those who had - even those who It scored only 13% on Rotten Tomatoes, so Fantasy XVI's opening cinematic on the disc #56: With a subtitle like Bikini Samurai Squad, I will at least say that the film is based as "sword-fighting big sister." Several of the games have seen Western releases, I wish they'd kept the movie to themselves, It and its sequel - with the equally evocative for their writing, directing, and special and completely unnecessary. The main character's casting was also criticized, much if she was any good. #55: Seer 2 (2012) Seer 4 (2014) We'll go ahead and count Seer for this list. It's not as though we'll ever have another Seer is a science-fiction-themed social network elements. Comparisons have been made to Pokemon, which without localized Pokemon games until Sun room for something else to fill the void. It's even gotten five movies so far, and could conceivably be updated for generations Seer may have begun life as a knockoff, but #54: When Super Mario Bros. was released in 1985, It made lifelong fans out of countless gamers itself as one of the most important titles But there was one question on the lips of Bob Hoskins?" Enter the very first live-action film based It's Mario in name only, but a Bob-Ombdoeswaddle In a way, the film was just as influential At the very least, it influenced decades of #53: Released in 2004, the visual novel Fate/stay to spinoffs, retellings, adaptations, and The fact that it was adapted into a film is not possibly live up to expectations. The visual novel had too much content to fit The script ran to over 1,000 pages, compared Ultimately, the film focused on a single arc story; a necessity, but one that disappointed non-fans. Not an ideal outcome. #52: RPGs almost certainly offer the sturdiest Their strong emphases on narrative, characterization, advantage. What films cannot capture as easily, however, RPGs. So what did Dawn of the Seeker do to address Not much, really. Basing the film around recurring character indeed the character's portrayal was almost everything else was divisive, from the film's of animation. Robbed of a chance to leave one's imprint as being quite disposable. #51: Like Street Fighter, Ratchet &amp; Clank was a Unlike Street Fighter, Ratchet &amp; Clank didn't process. In fact, Ratchet &amp; Clank The Movie The Game to Street Fighter The Movie the Game, which upon it. The film itself wasn't received all that the game on which it was based, and 12 years Better late than never? With a 22% average on Rotten Tomatoes, maybe #50: Silent Hill: Revelation (2012) with the town ideally being the setting of What matters is what the characters learn are forced to confront, not what the town The two Silent Hill films struggle to understand Each of them toys to some extent with actual more than "this town is Hell and Hell sure That's unfortunate. At its best, Silent Hill told psychological Its own actual movies deserved to do that, #49: We mentioned earlier that Super Mario Bros. a live-action film. Would you believe it was the first one to Well, only believe it halfway, because it's released the very same day. I tell you, you wait all day for a bus and naffanimated buses? I kind of lost control of my metaphor there called Star Soldier, and Toho turned it into It bombed. Moving on. #48: Wait, this isn't that terrible movie based Don't worry; this is a totally different somehow even worse. The Hitman games earned their fans through a symphony of planning, execution, and reaction. There was a genuine elegance to the violence deadly works of performance art. His movies, however, seem to think he's Failing to even hit double digits on Rotten to be able to say about watching Hitman: Agent #47: Sakura Wars was one of Sega's last major its own hardware. It made its original home on the Saturn and The final game - at least prior to its 2019 My Love. The film, set between the events of two of its music and animation.That's hardly surprising, retained for the film. Strong criticism was leveled at the storyline but it was at least one more canon installment #46: Higurashi no NakuKoroniChikai (2009) title When the Evening Cicadas Cry, Higurashi on this list. Whereas the other visual novels got animated went the live-action route. It's a strange decision, but it may have The anime adaptation, for instance, drew criticism of the violence and horror. The live-action films, by contrast,represent They feel pretty basic by J-horror standards, prefer seeing your murderous anime girls in #45: It's something of a pattern that animated live-action counterparts. We'd say that's strange, but then we look it couldn't possibly be otherwise. In Tekken's case, its live-action film was producers and writers have no idea who these a crap." Blood Vengeance is no masterpiece, but it fighting that gave the games their appeal. The CGI film is heavy on spectacle and won't something that was recognizably Tekken. What a concept. #44: Really, it should not be this difficult to Shove Agent 47 into an interesting environment a combination of cleverness, foresight, and You could either embrace the corniness or into a 90-minute masterpiece of tension and Or you could make a mindless action movie we guess. Timothy Olyphant has said he only took the So I guess we can at least be glad that the isn't homeless. #43: The Ni no Kuni games famously featured animation creating some of the most beautiful, memorable, So when it came time for Ni no Kuni to become cheaper.Whether or not that was the reason box office, we can't say, but it certainly NiNoKuni is not a bad film by any stretch "inspired by" the series than like an or animation of the games, what was meant #42: We expect these movies to deviate from the What we don't expect is for one to be so developers issues a statement to disown it, Critics were even more...critical; thisweirdly Tomatoes. Mark Wahlberg at least received a high-profile role. Alright, yes, it was a Razzie, but beggars Also, Max Payne is both the name of the film There. Now you don't have to make that joke in #41: Japanese horror games being adapted into films What is a rarity, however, is one of those of its release. February 9, 2006, saw both the release of in theaters which, despite the title, was This may have been meant to expose the game Forbidden Siren into a film series in its The games saw only one more entry and the #40: Roco Kingdom 2 (2013) Roco Kingdom 4 (2015) with, but in China it is an extremely popular It's so popular, in fact, that it wasn't of four films, not to mention a television Not living in China I can't pretend to know designed for young children. Roco Kingdom is often compared to Pokemon, critters. That alone may explain the amount of adaptations If you're going to pull inspiration from revenue streams. #39: Dragon Nest 2: Throne of Elves (2016) thanks to a years-long open beta and positive It was translated and localized many times players. When the inevitable attempt at a motion picture Korea; it happened in China, so large was It didn't quite make back its budget, but English-language release and a sequel, both The game remains popular to this day, so it's the films. #38: Doom seems like both the best and worst idea Best because everybody played Doom and loved Worst because...well, look at it. Not much in the way of story, is there? Granted, Doom 3 brought a stronger narrative most fans pictured when thinking of the series. It's also not what the filmmakers seemed Roger Ebert put it best: "Doom is like some won't let you play." The movie failed to recoup its budget, and to video. #37: It's sometimes difficult to remember that fighting games. That's Dead or Alive's own fault, with to its female characters' bodies above all This is the series that popularized jiggle designed to titillate. The film is exactly as intelligent as anyone fun. It made back about a quarter of its budget. We aren't saying a Dead or Alive: Xtreme idea, but we're pretty sure it would have #36: Namco Bandai's Talesseries is known for and enchanting settings. Basically, it's known for everything necessary film is what it got with The First Strike. Serving as a prequel to Tales of Vesperia a stand-alone story would have likely brought that audience to the games. The animation is great, the music was well-received, were praised for their performances. If only it weren't tied to one specific it. #35: Mortal Kombat: Annihilation (1997) fighters ripping each other's heads off Friend, there's enough for an entire trilogy. That was the plan, anyway.The first film, Anderson, made $122 million on a budget of Gene Siskel called it "the only halfway Backhanded compliments are still compliments!The Replace the director, recast the roles, and It was a critical and financial failure and Shame; I heard some people were going to beat #34: Serenade (2015) no Fantasia (2016) became popular enough upon its release to production almost immediately. It was well-enoughreceived but did not do getting a one-day-only theatrical release. It is worth mentioning that a live-action but it's unclear whether or not it made That is to say, it's unclear to me, a British prior to recording this sentence; it's probably watched in a theater or on their couch. #33: Basing a movie on a racing game is a filmmaker's make The Fast and the Furious." Buying the rights to Need for Speed does bring EA is not the sort of behavior we should condone. Anyway, fans of the games were no doubt thrilled on the big screen, such as cars and roads. It's nice enough to see Aaron Paul, at least. Perhaps he wouldn't be driving so fast if Braking, like with a car when you want to You'll laugh tomorrow. #32: Clannad got spinoffs and adaptations in manga, Visual novels in theory should make for easy gameplay-driven experiences into cinematic the setting, and the story. In the case of Clannad, that's just what Obviously the branching plot had to go, so Nagisa Furukawa being given the focus. Fans are split, many preferring the anime, Notably, it was also the final film directed dating all the way back to Astro Boy, before #31: Best Ten (2014) Prism Tours (2015) PriParaMinna no Akogare Let's Go PriPari (2016) GekijobanPriPara&amp;KirattoPri Chan: KiraKira King of Prism: Shiny Seven Stars (2019) games released primarily in arcades. The machines are compatible with physical the characters. The first film was made to spotlight 10 performances did get a theatrical release, so we decided We didn't decide to watch it, but we did Several screenings of the film even featured hosted segments of the Pretty Rhythm anime. If only the Super Mario Bros. film had screenings to "Do the Mario," it could have been #30: While it's the unbearable stupidity of the public consciousness, Street Fighter also a few months prior. It was produced for a fraction of the cost an incredible seven times higher: 78%. Critics and fans were pleased, with the main the Western release, which added an ill-fitting That's since been rectified in later versions. It was so well received that elements of the series. Very few of these films can say that, thank #29: One of the best things about Assassin's anywhere, at any point in history. Even so, I think it's safe to say nobody Ubisoft was reportedly excited for the film's into the lore, with the intention of eventually together, creating one large, multimedia canon The film reviewed poorly, though, with an around $100 million, so the company decided It's difficult to disagree. #28: Dragon Quest could have translated easily Familiar enemies and names and systems recur an enclosed continuity anyway. That makes Your Story's decision to specifically More odd is that this 2019 film adapted a Then again, a lawsuit alleges that they adapted much as they adapted the game itself, but It's a messy situation and a messy film, We think they should be happy, though;as we've #27: Lara Croft: Tomb Raider - The Cradle of 2001'sTomb Raiderwas received about as well at the time - that is to say, critics begged for Angelina Jolie in the title role was all She was an excellent fit and the biggest complaint Two years later she did, with The Cradle of perform nearly as well. Distributor Paramount blamed the financial Tomb Raider games weren't good anymore. "Come see our movie based on terrible games" evidently. #26: Resident Evil: Apocalypse (2004) Resident Evil: Afterlife (2010) Resident Evil: The Final Chapter (2017) Anderson's Resident Evil series includes Quite impressive, considering nobody liked Much of the criticism went to protagonist Not because she was bad, but because focusing to cameos. Oh, and they were action films instead of made to ensure they'd please nobody. The worst part? George Romero wrote a script that was never The godfather of zombie cinema adapted the to see it. But don't worry; we might stumble across #25: Many of the films on this list are bad and Only one of the films on this list almost it was based on. The Spirits Within is far superior to most Protagonist Aki Ross was the world's first films. She was even given a press tour, which, of The movie flopped, however, and did so notably with Square, understandably not enthusiastic just blown $140 million on a vanity film. #24: Yo-Kai Watch: EnmaDaio to Itsutsu no Monogatari (2015) Sekai no Daiboken da Nyan! (2016) (2017) Game development is a business, and we can't franchise that could bring a steady stream That's exactly what they were looking for with strong parallels to both Pokemon and Of course, it also has a film series, within If it seems a bit cynical to design a franchise noting that the first film has an incredible The intention may have been to make more money, every penny. #23: NekoAtsume: Kitty Collector is...well, I can't mobile games that revolves around buying things. Which, come to think of it, doesn't narrow Anyway, you decorate a small area in order Then you...keep doing that. That's not the most riveting concept for no Ie is instead about a struggling novelist. Quite how attracting throngs of stray cats is beyond us. Then again, just thinking about it has allowed something to this after all. #22: e! (2014) about training up-and-coming young idols for A concept such as that can cover just about just about every kind of story in the games. The film - The Idolmaster Movie: To the both halves of the idol equation, with well-established proteges still navigating the quirks of fame. Is this for everybody? No. Is it for me? Also no. But the film won a number of major anime awards. Compared to the Razzies most of these movies #21: Pokemon: The Movie 2000 (1999) Pokemon 4Ever (2001) Pokemon: Jirachi Wish Maker (2003) Pokemon: Lucario and the Mystery of Mew (2005) (2006) Pokemon: Giratina and the Sky Warrior (2008) Pokemon: Zoroark: Master of Illusions (2010) and White--Victini and Zekrom(2011) Justice (2012) Awakened (2013) of Destruction (2014) Ages (2015) Marvel (2016) (2017) Pokemon: Mewtwo Strikes Back Evolution (2019) movie from worst to best, please let us know We aren't going to do it, but you'll feel The films themselves more or less run the The lowest Rotten Tomatoes score goes to 1998's informed was the first movie, with 15%. The highest goes to 2018's Pokemon the That in itself doesn't sound great, but it Seven Samurai, and there's a very good one of these. #20: Released in 2000, adult visual novel Air was It found a wider audience with ports for the its explicit sex scenes, of course. Both versions attracted a dedicated following, and, the year after that, a feature film. Compared to the anime, the movie focused more the protagonist and a character from one of This was seen as a better approach, as the Which, to be fair, you may prefer. We are not here to judge. #19: Sakusen! (1986) Mario Bros.: The Great Mission to Rescue Princess material a full seven years before the live-action at all. Is the movie great? No, but it's recognizably Mario. It's less-recognizably Luigi, who the animators looking at the bulk of this list; we'll The plot centers around the bowl-scrubbing you probably could have guessed. It ends with a demoralized Bowser working didn't see that coming. #18: flower (2017) butterfly (2019) Heaven's Feel devotes itself to a single This film, however, learned from that film's This time, the story was given the space of from being lost and making the story far easier Critics and fans enjoyed it...at least, they The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a delay It's important for a story we love to stick up or down the list. At the time of writing, however, the Heaven's wanted. That's worth celebrating. #17: Few games on this list can be said to have of Warcraft. For that reason, we shouldn't be too surprised movie of all time. Having Duncan Jones - an actual good director didn't hurt but, overall, critics considered Warcraft holds a score of 28% on Rotten Tomatoes, fact that the film seems to lay the groundwork It may have earned more money, but Warcraft than anything else on this list. #16: Described at the time as basically being "Shenmue, that Sega might indeed find success in the It also clearly lent itself well to film, foundation of countless beloved classics. Critics and fans were impressed by...y'know...a Like a Dragon retained the wryness of the It also told a story that was familiar to who hadn't played the game. In short, it was a genuinely good movie that See? It's not that difficult. #15: Corpse Party Book of Shadows (2016) that could. It's about school children playing a parlor through a warped version of their world. That's similar to the plot of the first both games released in 1996, with Corpse Party Light on gameplay, Corpse Party was heavy It lent itself well to adaptation, and has The game and its sequelalso got live-action Corpse Party is a disarming experience, and media than nearly anything else on this list. #14: The film may not come up in conversation much Time is actually the fourth-highest-grossing pressed to tell you why. The game, to be clear, is still quite good. It's one of the better video-game reboots, and holds up well. The film, however, despite being a box-office of impact. Plans to turn it into a franchise fell apart, only thing he learned from doing the movie accepted. If only he could rewind time... #13: The Angry Birds Movie 2 (2019) comes down to how much time you spent on the The idea was simple: You would take a number at pigs. Then, afterward, maybe you'd play Angry Okay, okay. The game was a genuine hit, leading to merchandising, It stands at 43% on Rotten Tomatoes, with Its sequel, however, was received much better, Impressive results for movies based on a game #12: There are few things more relaxing than playing The Movie, you can even relax your thumbs. Great pains were taken to ensure that the spirit, with some of the games' staff working Totaka. It worked. The story of 11-year-old Ai finding her place exciting thing on this list, but it might It performed so well with Japanese fans that announcement that they had no plans to bring #11: Fatal Frame is a series of horror games in It's basically a version of Pokemon Snap The first game wasdesigned by a team pulling find. It ended up being so scary, they were disappointed finish it. It was loosely novelized as Fatal Frame: A from there into a scary movie of its own. The film was praised for its examination of become a celebrated horror movie in its own #10: With a reimagined Lara Croft getting a series for films to get a reimagined Lara Croft as This was Alicia Vikander, who suited the character Angelina Jolie did the original. Criticisms were similar to those levied at being seen as unnecessary, and the speed with unrealistic. These are things that could easily be ironed production. Hopefully we'll still get one. Like the rebooted games, the film was much #9: Could Professor Layton end up being the next The crew that worked on this one certainly Layton film every winter. Of course, they said this in 2009 and we still our breath. The movie isn't half bad. Fans of the brain-teasing games will be well-served style of animation. It's a standalone, yet canon, story about to appeal to both those familiar with the animated Sherlock Holmes who ingests marginally #8: If there's one thing you absolutely need medium, it's the style. The animators behind Bloody Fate understood retelling of Bayonetta's first adventure. The film features most of the game's English The original release of the game in Japan the film, a Japanese cast was assembled from Their performances were so well received that in both for Bayonetta 2 and to at last record the first game. That's a high and well-deserved honor. #7: When a Sonic the Hedgehog movie was revealed, From the character's glory days being decades to the complete lack of necessity of a film succeed. And yet, it did. The negativity surrounding the film turned concerns to heart, re-editing it to feature Did that make the film better than it would Probably not, but it did make it more successful Don't let anybody tell you that complaining #6: Being as the video game Rampage was itself in history - including heavy hitters such it to translate back into film fairly easily. And then one might watch Rampage, and one It's honestly not a terrible film; it's fun as a movie about big monsters smashing Interestingly, when it was released in 2018 in the history of Rotten Tomatoes. That's still only a 52% average but...y'know. Progress. #5: Resident Evil: Damnation (2012) Okay, hear us out: Resident Evil, but featuring It's just crazy enough to work! Don't get us wrong; the three CGI Resident true to the spirit of the series, alternating in a way that works quite well. The characters - often with returning voice and we get to see what a number of them have them. Everything looks and feels like the Resident place. All it took was giving the franchise to people #4: Detention is an atmospheric horror game that It's quite good, and so is the 2019 movie, production and won a number of film awards. It draws its inspiration from real-life horror: incarceration, and execution known as the (It goes without saying that the game and It's a regrettable period of history that from memory. From a social standpoint,Detentionis the most Unless, y'know, you care deeply about the #3: Capcom's Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney games visual style and over-the-top take on the Turning it into a live-action film instead was therefore a risky prospect, and yet, miraculously, The silliness of the series was retained shockingly leaned into the ridiculousness while taking Reviews fromKotaku and Nintendo Life have similarly high praise coming from IGN, Destructoid, Is it deserving of that praise? Well, I have no...objection! #2: (2013) Dream (2014) Persona 3 The Movie: No. 4, Winter of Rebirth Persona 3 is often cited as having the best Another game may contain your waifuor husbando with the inevitability of death makes for Wisely, the cinematic adaptation-a quadrilogy game in all of the ways fans could have wished. It takes the basic structure of Persona 3, of a movie, and finds new ways to fill gaps gameplay. You know, when I say it out loud like that, #1: This probably isn't a surprise to anyone. Detective Pikachu was heralded by a number of all time, and whether or not you agree, would appeal to so many. It's adorable, it's funny, and it presents that it appeals to fans without limiting its Of course, it's easy to overlook the fact of the film; arriving late in the life of to miss. That makes this a rare case of a film raising rather than the other way around. It is also the highest-rated live-action video-game Okay, not great, but it's all relative! It fared a bit worse on Metacritic, where video-game movie. It's right behind...let me just check...Mortal Good lord, people make me sick... And that's every video game movie ranked How many of them have you seen? If the number is greater than four, we suggest Did you know Detective Pikachu would be #1? Did you wish Hitman would be #47? When TripleJump Pictures releases its adaptation play Francis York Morgan? As always, we hope you enjoyed the video. Share it with your friends, even if it's we are. Also, if you have suggestions for other "Every us know. We've ranked almost everything in existence, You can follow TripleJump on Twitter here, the things you enjoy by having a look at our Finally, don't for get to like the video, to the channel. I'm Ben and I'm Peter from TripleJump,