Let's make the biscuit dough to put on the Choux surface Loosen butter at room temperature with a spatula. Add the sugar and mix with a spatula until smoothly creamy. You may use a whisk. Sift flour and fold lightly with a spatula to make a loaf. If you have a food processor, you can make dough more easily. Just add all the ingredients and mix with a food processor. Put the dough between parchment paper or Teflon sheet and make it 2mm thick. You can push it up to 3mm thick, but if the dough gets thicker, the total number can be reduced. I used two metal bars to even out the thickness of the dough. Set in the freezer until the dough hardens. The dough is thin, so if it is left in the freezer for 20 minutes, it quickly hardens. Peel the sheet from the dough and cut it into 5cm diameter circles using a cookie cutter. Store in the freezer until use. Sieve the flour to be used for Choux dough. For eggs, mix the whites and yolks thoroughly, then weigh accurately. You must use eggs that are not cold at room temperature. Place the flour on a 5 cm diameter round cookie cutter and leave a mark on the Teflon sheet. Add water, milk, salt and butter to the pan. Butter must be cut into small pieces. Heat the mixture over high heat to make it boil. Stir well with a spatula while heating to melt the butter. If the butter is cold or in large chunks, the butter still does not melt when the mixture boils. If it does, the mixture will heat longer than necessary, causing the dough to run out of moisture. When the mixture boils completely to the center, turn off the heat, add flour, and mix quickly. When the starch component in flour meets the hot liquid, it is gelatinized. This plays the most important role in choux's hollowing and swelling. Mix until you don't see the powder and it becomes a lump. Turn on the fire again, and mix the dough evenly with a spatula and fry the dough for about 1 minute over high heat. The dough has already been gelatinized to some extent, but it needs to be heated to make the dough completely gelatinized. If this is not done properly, the choux will not swell well. If a thin film is clearly formed over the bottom of the pot, remove the dough from the fire and transfer it to the bowl. Let the eggs cool for about 1 minute until the steam goes out so that the eggs do not ripen in the heat of the dough. Let cool to 60 degrees Celsius. Add the eggs one-third first and mix. It doesn't mix well at first, but if you keep mixing slowly, the dough will absorb the eggs. You can do this using a hand mixer or kitchen aid. Before adding the eggs again, the dough must be in a completely uniform state, otherwise lumps are likely to form. Add half of the remaining eggs and mix again. From now on, add the eggs little by little and make the consistency of the dough into a suitable texture. The amount of eggs needed to reach the desired texture can vary depending on the time the dough was roasted, the temperature of the dough, etc. So, even if you put less than 110g of eggs, the dough may already be too thin. In addition, even though 110g of eggs have been added, the dough is too thick to require additional eggs. Of course, technicians who make choux pastry every day will add a certain amount of eggs. However, we are home bakers. It is better to flexibly control the amount of eggs than to spoil the choux pastry because of the incorrect dough consistency. The dough should form a smooth V shape at the end of the spatula. And it should have a shiny surface. This is a slightly watery dough. The dough looks coarse and falls off as it tears when dropped. If the dough is in this state even though you have added all the eggs, add more eggs. It is a slightly thin dough. When the dough is dropped, the dough flows slightly more fluidly. And it keeps falling. I heard that there are many chefs making dough with this consistency. Therefore, this dough can be used. Be careful, however, if the dough is too thin, the shape of the choux will be flat. Put the dough in the piping bag. Arrange the dough well to prevent air from entering the piping bag. Piping the dough into a circle 5 cm in diameter. This is almost the same way as when piping macaron dough. Be careful not to make the choux pastry dough larger than the Craquelin dough. If one dough is slightly smaller than the other, you can add dough. Put the cold and hard Craquelin dough on the surface. If you want to keep the dough frozen, just freeze it in the freezer. After baking for 15 minutes at 190 degrees Celsius (375 degrees Fahrenheit), lower the temperature and bake for another 15 minutes at 170 degrees Celsius (338 degrees Fahrenheit). Never open the oven door while baking! Choux is shrinking. I like choux with a firm and crispy texture. So bake until the color is slightly brown. Even if it looks like it has been completely baked, the inside may be soggy when cut, so bake for a long enough time to evaporate moisture. Grilled on a Teflon sheet and grilled on a perforated mat. In the original choux, the bottom is slightly concave, but if you bake it on a perforated mat, the bottom can be flat. Now let's make the custard cream. Mix the egg yolk and sugar. Mix only lightly until sugar and yolk are well mixed. Sift flour and add. Mix until no powder is visible. Add milk and vanilla beans to the pan. For vanilla beans, cut half lengthwise and scrape the seeds with a knife. Vanilla bean pods also have a lot of vanilla, so put them together and heat them. Heat only until the edges of the milk boil. Adding a teaspoon of sugar to the yolk side instead of the milk side will prevent the film from forming. Stir well, adding little by little, so that the yolk does not clot. Transfer all mixture back to the pan. Stir well in the pan with a whisk and heat over high heat. As the starch in the flour heats up and gelatinizes, the liquid thickens and begins to form. Stir vigorously as the resulting lump will not disappear if you don't shake it strongly with your hands. In particular, stir the bottom and edges of the pot, as it is easy to leave residue. Custard cream can have a bad smell of flour if not heated enough. If you keep stirring while heating, it will suddenly become slightly thin and the cream will shine. Turn off the fire when it boils as if a large air bubble bursts across the pot. Add butter and mix. Filter through a sieve. Remove vanilla pods. Place the custard cream over ice water and cool it with a spatula. Custard cream is the easiest to grow bacteria between 20 and 40 degrees Celsius. You have to spread it wide and put it in the freezer, or cool it quickly on ice water to drop the cream quickly. As the temperature of the cream decreases, the concentration will gradually increase due to gelatinized starch. Now, let's mix custard cream with whip cream to make Diplomat Cream. Whip cold whipped cream over ice water to make it solid. If the whipped cream is not firm, the Diplomat cream is too thin. So whip it well until it's hard. If you have a pointed horn when lifting the whisk vertically, you are done. Put half of the whipped cream on the side of the custard cream first and lightly fold it with a spatula. If you apply too much with a spatula, the foam of the whip cream will go out and the cream will become thin. Add all the remaining whip cream and fold it gently with a spatula. When the color is uniform and the texture is the same overall, it is complete. I've tasted the cream right now, and it's crazy. Drill a small hole in the bottom of the choux with a pointed tip. Inject the cream into the choux as much as you can with your hand holding the piping bag. Wipe off any areas where the cream is protruding slightly. Choux is best eaten as soon as it is made, but if it is not possible, keep it in the refrigerator. I'll cut it. The crunchy choux is filled with delicious cream. Tasting the fresh-made crunch puff is the privilege of the home bakers. :) Thanks for watching