The business of tires is a slow growth and low The total market value has in the past few years, and much in the coming years I mean, it grows a little a lot slower than GDP. So, you know, in some ways toothpaste, much like the The industry is competitive spikes in raw material treat its products as knowing the difference another. Price is usually the future may look a lot Some believe a real move to realm of opportunity. After all, EV tires cost changed 20% more often. The latest tires are EV's heavier weight and acceleration. More range. If EV does kind of evolve car population like some what I call the gold rush From 2017 to 2022, the US about 9%, and the top three than half of all tire sales Americans bought 330 increase of less than 1% Overall demand is expected 2027. It's a low growth business, all take for granted to So given that backdrop, um, say amongst the most followed over the years. The industry is highly prices, which companies Tires are made up mostly of something called carbon durability and gives them On the other side of it, buyers as almost like the made of. NorthCoast estimates that as many as indifferent to which brand Tire changes can't be either. Some people drive a Other factors are the in and unpredictable events When you take all these know, the global nature of operators and competitors, customer base that's kind rather than brand. And then the inability to customers are going to come It just creates a dynamic 1st, it's awfully difficult going to grow 3% or if it's One of the main ways that each other is by creating a And how do you differentiate You try to make it last So in essence, the R&amp;D that their business is hurting It's slowing the frequency tires last longer. So it is a it is a really Now enter EVs which pose We're very good at making different a different At first glance, today's 150 years ago. A mostly rubber tube But a lot of innovation has Michelin, one of the world, created the radial Over the years, the rubber that are put in them have That includes compounds that temperatures, allowing for Today's tires are made of adjustments to these The types of compounds on can tune the tire for performance. Racing tires, possible. Consider the wheels on a drag racer, on the road. Tires like conditions. Most road tires them, in addition to other in bad weather. But treads performance, gas mileage or Pull on one part of this, The real trick is to pull EVs provide both challenges that help distinguish tire One interesting one EVs are a mixed blessing as it noticeable. So you think about like the when it bounces. That's the air inside the As you bounce, the same thing. It's got, you And as you go over bumps create that. What we see is that there can be a vehicle's designed with There are ways to reduce to dampen the sound. Another challenge: EVs most precious resource. Gasoline is still far, far typical EV battery. You get a lot more pound car than with the current technology. The battery Chevy Bolt weighs about 960 The comparable gas powered nearly 550 miles on a Its fuel tank holds 13.7 above 80 pounds. Researchers are, of course, While EV batteries don't as gasoline does, EVs do far more efficiently. Only about 16 to 25% of the gas will actually power the a fuel burning engine loses energy to heat, radiating parts of the car. EVs, however, deliver about to the wheels more if there technologies like Vehicles also lose energy something called rolling Basically, just a force rolls. The same force that rolling ball. Because EVs don't suffer reducing that energy loss much more important to possible. Improving the impact on an EVs range. We've done studies that have the range of an electric maybe even 15%, depending That means if a vehicle has get an additional 45 just One key challenge, and the biggest boon for tire tires. This might be the first development standpoint in tire demand to increase. EVs weigh a lot more than The Kia Niro EV, for heavier than its Ice This isn't perfect, but a a turbo diesel engine has a pounds. The GMC Hummer EV EVs also accelerate faster accelerates from 0 to seconds max. The Niro EV does it in 7.8. Many EVs can easily attain quickness. I'm sure you've had the and if you've driven with a EV, one of the first things they're going to hit the the ground, and they're your chair, and you're impressed. This is because of torque, a engine delivers to wheels. Electric motors don't have engines, so they can essentially instantly. That is what throws you A car taking off like that they try to grip the road add more weight on top of scrubbing the asphalt hard. The regenerative braking additional force on the direction to slow the A high performance tire in anyway. Now you put the that type of a tire and quicker. I mean, some of tires out in 15, 20,000 because they're wildly While EVs expand, tt's hard really good thing for manufacturers. Michelin expects the EV tire about 6 to 7% by 2027. It's about 1 or 2% right Analytics firm AlixPartners tires is expected to grow rate through 2031. Meanwhile, ICE vehicle decline 2%. The average age of a over 12 years in 2023. The firm estimates the cost that time will be about vehicles. EV tires are need to be replaced about And we've been hearing this for about 2 to 3 years A Tesla vehicle replaces instead of every 40 or 15,000 might actually be a It might be, you know, even Sometimes, if you think kind of an expanding for tire companies, which happened in decades. The biggest manufacturers tires should last a lot Bridgestone Turanza EV tire warranty, and Goodyear's mile one. We've developed some of regardless of kind of how happens. So we're going to general. But but I think proliferation is going to of exactly how quickly it's Then our tires are going to and last longer. So as we get five years not going to be a 12,000 It's going to be an 18,000 So I think you're going to eroding of the replacement R&amp;D into the category. Other tire development challenges and intelligence. The Goodyear the Tesla Cybertruck are measure tire temperature, rubber is actually in Pulling that data together how much tread is left on need to be replaced, and so Another area that has seen diameter. The ever vehicles has boosted demand Rim diameters of less than replacement sales in the growing. Diameters of 18in February 2023 year over The size proliferation is EVs that we're seeing have inch, 22 inch wheels on Tires that wrap around a matter what they're towed, They're more expensive. As people go and gravitate manufacturers will continue as they are getting And so what we've seen is years, a significant of raw sizes in the market. The industry is very but it continues to become gets, you know, newer and sizes. And I think we're starting to see 23 and 24 become a big part of the While all of these rapid vehicles, onboard sensors, opportunities for growth. They do strain the budgets operating on razor thin We've only got so much We've only got so much capability. What parts of after at the expense of the market? And so I think diameters going up, some of necessarily get all of the because we've got to focus to to make sure that we're grows.