No doubt you've all had the conversation if you won the lottery. How much would you give away to family and Or would you just spend, spend, spend, and According to CNN Money the biggest lottery between three people. A year later in 2017, one woman scooped $758.7 of $480.5 million. If you don't know, you can take your win Sounds great, but tell us what you think about Show, When winning the lottery was a horrible You may have already seen the documentaries, by cunning relatives and friends suddenly of the pie. You will know how it can tear families apart, greed. These are sad stories for sure. The last one might even bring a tear to your 10: Return of the killer lover was the luckiest woman alive when she picked in 2007. It's said her plan was to start a trust But Murray only got to live with her winnings the scene begging. She wasn't interested in getting back with her to death. He was arrested soon after. A lose-lose situation, which we will see is 9: A murderer in the family fate, except this time it was family with 39-year old Dampier was over the moon when that he wasn't stingy, either, treating His sister-in-law and her boyfriend got the they kidnapped him and then shot him in the The pair were soon arrested. Dampier's widow was later asked what winning "I think it is a curse," she replied. 8: Don't trust anyone won $30 million in the Florida lottery when The former laborer didn't spend big at first, According to reports he was constantly harassed He once told his brother, "I'd have been I thought all these people were my friends, money." And it got worse. He went missing and was later found buried The killer was a woman he'd befriended who money problems. Her name was Dorice &quot;Dee Dee&quot; Moore, and she's first degree murder. 7: Drinking to the grave have been murdered for their money. All the reports of this happening were in universal. Take the case of Brit, Keith Gough, who won rates) in 2005. Gough got straight down to the business of and apparently drinking himself to oblivion. He wasn't the brightest of lucky people, after giving it to some shady guy to invest. He not only ended up selling everything he the line BMW, his executive box at Aston Villa he got into money troubles. He died of a heart attack, and financial problems His friends said the lottery virtually killed "Winning the money was the worst thing that It's very sad," said one old friend. 6: Taking your own life who won $31million in the Texan lottery in He was followed around like many others by of his winnings. He didn't hide the fact he was rich, though. It got so much for the poor guy that he moved He also made some terrible financial decisions, It seems it all got too much, and two years he put a gun to his own head. Prior to taking his own life he said, "Winning to me." 5: Losing everything you need a West Virginian who won a staggering $315 He wasn't too careful with his cash, having where he kept a money-loaded suitcase. He later had another $200,000 stolen in a Then he was hit by grief after losing his her mother- his daughter- died two years later They'd both been spending his fortune for "My granddaughter is dead because of the She was the shining star of my life, and she the press. Incredibly, years later he said he had nothing down. "I wish that we tore the ticket up," he 4: Too much, too young Donnelly won the lottery in 1997 - not a talked about the pressure of being rich. He once told a newspaper that he was scared "It was very hard to deal with all the attention I even had people camping outside my house. It put a huge strain on me and my family.&quot; He was found dead in his luxury home when It's thought he died of natural causes, a part in his demise. 3: Back to the trailer park back to rags. Evelyn Basehore won $3.9 million back in 1985, In 2000 she was back in a trailer park, saying "I won the American dream, but I lost it, It was a very hard fall. It's called rock bottom," she said. 2: Thug life Michael Carroll, called a "Lottery Lout" He even called himself "King of Chavs". What is a chav? That's a long story, but we guess you could a white trash type of hoodlum. Anyway, this young delinquent won a massive in 2002. At the time of his win, when he was just 19, and was still wearing an electronic tag so Winning didn't stop him from getting in 10 years later and ALL the money was gone, gambling, and "thousands of prostitutes." We are not sure how he, or his poor lungs $2,300 a day crack cocaine habit. What did he have to say about his rise and "The party has ended and it's back to reality. I haven't got two pennies to rub together I find it easier to live off PS42 dole than Dole means unemployment benefits. He couldn't get away from crime, or criminals, As his money was running out some blackmailers ran him out of town, but not before he paid 1: A mortal loss stories, even though we are not sure you can In Thailand the lottery is serious business some who don't have many options in life. People make merit at temples and pray for Superstitious folks get exploited by seers numbers in dreams, or if someone has, say, people will queue to pray to it and hope it The numbers might even appear on the license A ghost may even whisper the winning numbers So yeah, it's serious alright. So serious that in 2018 a man called Jirawut found out he had the winning numbers for the The 42-year-old threw a party and got really find his winning tickets. It's said he became very depressed after He then shot himself in the head. His suicide note read, "I'm really sorry, lottery prize.". Apparently, the tickets were never found, After hearing all this, we guess you are thinking Are we right? How would you deal with the cash explosion person cursed by a lottery win? Let us know in the comments!Also, be sure The History of the World. Thanks for watching, and as always, please See you next time!