- Today I am gonna show you Here's everything you need to know to get the beautiful rise, and the best texture in the center. And I'm craving some sourdough The first thing you're gonna do is feed your sourdough starter. I like to do this early in the morning. Using a kitchen scale and easier to measure. In a jar, combine equal flour and lukewarm water. For one loaf of bread, Most days when I'm making sourdough, I just go ahead and double and that way I have sourdough Now, thoroughly stir that together, scrape down the sides, cover and I like to put a to monitor how much it's rising. Let that rise at room temperature. With a healthy starter, you should see it more within four to six hours. Our starter has risen beautifully and it's at its peak of activity. This is where you wanna This is called an active starter. Now we're gonna make the bread dough in a large mixing bowl. And of course, we're gonna and zero it out for easy measuring. Now we're gonna combine We have our bread flour, and I like to add a or whole wheat for a little but you could just use bread flour. Also, make sure to add the salt. It's possible I have forgotten it before. And trust me, nobody so do not forget the salt. Whisk those together thoroughly, then we're gonna add the water. Make sure it's lukewarm water. You don't want it to be more Also, make sure to use Avoid chlorinated water, which can slow down the yeast activity. Next, add 100 grams of and you can see how I between each ingredient. This allows for just really efficient and accurate measuring. Stir with your spatula just Then use your hands to really Your hands are your because you can feel when the flour is really well incorporated. I do like to pinch the and it will be a very That's what you want. I find it helps to use to help get the extra and to clean the sides of the bowl. Cover the dough with a clean kitchen towel and let it rest at room This is called the bulk Every hour you're gonna uncover it, and with wet hands because from sticking to you. Gently lift up on one side of the dough and stretch it upwards. Make sure you don't tear the dough, then fold it over onto itself. Rotate the bowl a quarter turn and continue to stretch and or until the dough resists pulling. Keep coming back to it every hour to do your stretch and folds. This process helps to and creates a better texture Also, if your house is very cool, it does help to keep about 70 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit. You can put this in an or just keep it in a warm We're gonna do our fourth to tighten up the dough. And you can see that the so it will resist more to pulling. You may be able to fit three, maybe four stretch and Now it's time to shape your loaf, turn your dough out onto a At this point, you wanna any of the air bubbles. So I find if you just turn your bowl over, it'll slowly ease its way out of the bowl. Start shaping your dough by For a round loaf, start at the top and fold Gently pressing down in the center. Give the dough a slight turn Repeat until all four sides are folded in. Set the dough seam side down. Cup your hands around the dough and tuck the sides underneath Cover that with a clean kitchen towel and let it bench rest for 20 minutes. If you find that your dough you wanna re-tighten the loaf. Your goal is to create a tight skin on the surface of your dough. This will help ensure a better oven spring and more even rise. If it seems loose, to tighten the loaf. Cup your hands around the Then pull it towards you on the counter. This will help continue to Our dough is now ready to transfer into our banneton bread basket. Generously dust your basket with flour. You can either use bread flour, or my preference is rice flour because I feel like it and I will show you the difference later. Cover with a clean kitchen towel and refrigerate for at least This cold fermentation stage the great sourdough flavor of the bread. When you're ready to bake, you can either use a dutch oven which is my go-to. And I will link to these for making sourdough bread in the notes. About 30 minutes before baking, set the dutch oven or and preheat to 500 degrees Fahrenheit. I've got my thermometer in And I also have a pizza This will keep the bottom of the bread from browning too much. Once your oven is fully preheated, it's time to score and bake your bread. You can keep your loaf refrigerated Also, if you wanna refrigerate your loaf for more than 24 hours, I do like to put it in one That way it'll keep the too much in the refrigerator. Now we're gonna put on some oven mitts and carefully bring out the preheated pot. I like to line the bottom with a little bit of parchment paper, then invert the dough right into the pan. Next, you'll need to score your bread. This is important to help in the oven. I'm using a bread lame, which is just a razor You can also use a sharp knife When you're slicing, go from one end all the way to the other, cutting almost parallel to the bread. You wanna be a quarter It's okay to go over a second Using your oven mitts, carefully and put it into the oven. Once it's in the oven, reduce the heat to 450 degrees Fahrenheit and bake for 20 minutes covered. I'm gonna quickly show you how to do this if you have a Dutch oven. Transfer the loaf onto a score the bread, then lift and transfer into your hot Dutch oven. Now, take the lid off and continue baking for another 20 to 25 minutes, or until you've reached Once the bread is out of the oven, transfer it to a rack and to room temperature I wanna start by saying, you You've got this. Now, you have all the tools and all the information you need to make a beautiful loaf of As you can see, I made more than one loaf. I wanted to make sure as I could be for you guys. And then also, just take a You'll notice the difference So this one is the one with just bread flour. And you can see it has like a white crust because the flour gets kind It's still very pretty, and I've made many, many loaves with this, but I feel like the rice flour is superior because look at this, it also does soft really easy that's why I keep a pastry brush to just kind of brush off and then it reveals the Look at this, it's so lovely. You'll love the texture too. But really, either one works, so if you don't have rice flour, whatever, you'll still get great bread. Okay, and we're gonna pick the one that has cooled down You never wanna cut open a loaf of bread that's still warm or hot because all the steam will evaporate. And that steam needs so that it forms properly. Otherwise, it'll get gummy and And this is our loaf that is already fully at room temperature, so we're gonna cut right into it. Although, I don't know, this but I'm telling you, Gonna slice right in. You can hear that crust Oh, I love the sound. I'm so excited to show Okay, I think it just went All right, before I reveal what's inside, another thing that I is the difference it makes underneath your Dutch oven. See which one was it that This one, look at this. And I have to thank my friend Marina from Let the Baking Begin. That's where I learned this trick. So this is with the pizza stone. Look at that, look at that. With the pizza stone, You see how it got kind I think this is better, okay? Just a tip, you know? All right, here we go. Okay, here we go, here we go, here we go. The moment of truth. Dun, dun, dun, look at that. Look at that, it is so, so soft, and it just reshapes when you squish it. Look at that, it is the airiest bread. My kids go bananas for this. It's so, so delicious. You guys will love it. I'm gonna go ahead and just cut myself a nice slice right now. I personally love the end The crust is my favorite, can you tell? So that's what I'm gonna do. And honey, do we have butter? I feel like I need to have butter. Some salted butter for my taste test. That was close. Yep, my favorite salted butter. This is non-negotiable for me. This butter makes everything better. We all know this, facts. Okay, it's a little bit hard. Usually I like to have some so that I can enjoy my bread. I literally always have a loaf of bread, laying around all the time. Okay, here we go, listen to the crunch. Oh, I love how that crust is so crisp and chewy. The crumb is just airy soft. Oh, it's so good. And sourdough has so many It's easier to digest. It does actually have a lot of benefits over regular store-bought bread, so I hope you guys give this a try. Once you've mastered sourdough, there's so many sourdough You're gonna love it. I've just begun my sourdough journey and I've been doing this for years. And there's so many ways Everything from sandwiches. My son loves avocado toast in the morning. It just goes well with everything. Peanut butter and jelly is next level. It also keeps really well. So I love to bake a couple loaves at once. And I know our family will within a couple days. And so what I do is once they're cooled I'll cut them in half, And if you freeze them the when you thaw, it's literally So I'll bake once a week. I've got bread in the freezer life is good. I will share all of my tips and tricks and recipe in the notes. I hope you guys try this. I hope this is the start to a very long and wonderful sourdough journey. If you guys have any suggestions let me know in the comments. We'll see you in the next episode Oh, come to mama. Mmm. Oh, I have a cook book. It's really good. I will link to it in the comments and let me know where you spotted Sharky. Okay, back to eating. (bright music)