Translator: Yifat Adler Hi, everyone. I'm Laura Overdeck and today, how our fear of numbers in the most ordinary ways every day. Before we start, How long do you think the stripes are? They have a standard size. Most people guess They're actually ten feet long. And the gaps between them are 30 feet, How about highway signs? How big do you think It's always the same. It's probably about These things are because thanks to speed and distance, they don't look the way they should, and you're going to find out only if you go and look up the numbers. And what's interesting is, even if we do know the numbers, Look at what we do to Alaska. You know, it's always If you map Alaska to the same scale It's huge. Now, the fact that Alaska doesn't really affect us day to day, But the road stripes do, how far we are from the car in front of us And it turns out that that lack pervades all kinds of actions we take The problem is that math in our society It is seen as a dry, tedious subject and when you leave &quot;Oh, I'm never going to But the fact is, we see in the news looking for people with the right skills, These are the innovators or new medicines, or all the other things So that's bad enough. But I would argue which is that everybody on the street Just to live daily life, to be able and how you make a good decision, And we're not talking about This is just understanding numbers The problem is just like if you don't do the street math, you can really go down And as a society, collectively, we can really go off the rails as we're going to see. Now, thankfully the math is easy, so hopefully these are things So let's start by looking at Turns out there's something you do If you multiply that by six, that tells you how many hours So if you play video games that doesn't sound so bad, right? But that's 240 hours a year. That's a week and a half of your life, And tasks we do add up that way too. So, if you wash your face and you take a towel and rub that's 1,800 times a year and your crow's feet, You don't want to do that, right? When you do the math, And what is the math here? which is the same as adding Things add up, and as they add up, Making one bad choice But if you make that choice daily, in three months you've done it In a year, that's a third of a thousand. What makes the numbers get really big, is when you multiplied that out not just So, when you are sitting in a traffic jam - because the road construction and they're not really it's not just your time that's racking up, it's all the people pumping through Day after day, week after week. Jury selection. There're over 3,000 county court houses all of them with people sitting for hours, Or the DMV, right? The DMV makes you come, check in, before you can finish This is nothing short of sadism, right? (Laughter) And, you know, there's You know, there's no ticker in the sky, adding up everybody's hours of making us all wait The reason that we instinctively is because time is money, If you have a job, If you're a family member you're producing something, Volunteers have value. So, every time you use So, if you drive a couple of miles Let's say it's 20 cents cheaper a gallon. So, if you fill a whole tank, that's going to come to The question is, People might say: &quot;Well, you use That fraction of a gallon The swing vote is the value of your time. Because if you take 10 minutes at federal minimum wage that's a $1.20. Now, if you're not working, this might be a good decision because there isn't But if you're working, and if you make more, If you make 60,000 dollars a year, It might not be worth it. And the more you make, the more and the better the deal So, the point is every time there's always a cost So, when you pick up something or you hunt through the Internet or through your junk mail or on a bigger scale, if you take on a home improvement project in every one of those cases, And what's the math Again, this is just multiplying, right? It's multiplying your time When you stop and do the math, you find that some of your decisions the way you thought they were going to. Now, the reason you have to value is because no one else The Martha Stewart Living website that are going to make your life better. This one says that you should for every time you take or a teaspoon and a half of salt, you should write that down, so you know Because you know, picking up the box I don't know that any responsible person to see what kind of time that chews up, if you did that day after day Another tip on there said you should print out and put them all so you know what date they went in. You know, a marker works just fine, Again, no one is valuing your time, Again, as with jury selection, the DMV, when you multiply this out you get bigger and bigger effects. And sometimes with the best of intentions. Charities are happy to ask for our time To bake for the big sale, to round up the auction items I've never seen a non-profit to see how much was put in, and how does that line up Obviously there's a value It feels good, people bond, But if this is a charity that's really the top priority really is to raise money. And if we are not doing we might not know whether Now, we see a common theme here, which is that when we don't it's harder to think about them. When your chocolate wrapper tells you it's not actually true, they are there. And there are all kinds of numbers that we are not thinking about it. So quick, how many of you know how much income tax you've paid Kind of have to stop Which is scary, because it is we hand over to somebody else every day. But why don't we think about it? We never possess so we don't have to hand it back. And when we do catch it's usually weekly or biweekly, We don't sense how the numbers pile up. Now, that leads to a third way And that is because we don't see how small numbers we don't see how small numbers and which pieces of the pie So, a few years ago, I couldn't understand why our electric bill Not just the dollars, So I crawled into the bushes and then I went and turned off and I turned on one thing at a time to see what happened to the electric meter And I was stunned by what I found. After the air conditioner, the biggest user of electricity We kept having more kids More loads per week, The kids keep getting bigger and dirtier. And that really started to add up. And once we zeroed in and realized we knew the solution. Stop having children. Immediately. So, what's the math we talk about here? Just understanding parts of the whole. Americans hate fractions. It is the cliff that every kid, a lot of kids fall off This is the reason that restaurants Because taking one fifth makes us nervous. But, if there is one form it's understanding parts of a whole, and how we can find So, look at road rage. yes, you can go a little faster beeping at the idiot in front of you. You might be able to add on As you see, that's You have to drive an hour and 40 minutes if that's the gain you're getting, because it is Or, when you're looking at a budget. You know, chopping 20 percent But chopping 20 percent off When we know how the pieces line up, We can see many cases in society that's really going to move the needle. A perfect example is the SAT. This is the test that high schoolers take their choice of college And if you line up kid's scores you see that the wealthiest kids the poorest kids score it lowest, and everybody else falls neatly And there's a really big gap. And people argue that test prep It turns out if you look test prep gets you an average It doesn't explain the 400 point gap for the wealthiest kids And that's because 50 hours of test prep What we're looking at is 16 or 17 years Compared to the kids who are in trouble, kids who live comfortably because they've got They're going to school They're being read to, because their parents know to do They live in a house rather than on our poorest neighborhoods, where it can be one book So, by the time they've gotten here, of a life that is completely different. 50 hours of test prep The math here is easy, right? 30 points? Or the remaining 370 And by the way, schools Before we beat on schools and teachers for not getting you have to remember that a kid lives in a year, It's only part of the equation. For kids who are already in high school, we can't rewind and redo Test prep is all that's left. That's why it's so admirable and David Coleman at the College Board, are working to have free access It's a good thing it's free, Not even just to do well on this test, To have the reading and the math skills to be able to live everyday life. And for the kids who haven't got it's a time to think about on how our communities provide How we can provide more awareness, so that we can nurture So as we see, numbers shine that we might not want to look into. But we have to look into them, right? So, how do we turn this around? I think there are One is that from the get-go, as something that is not only fun, but totally woven into their normal life. You know, at night we read to kids, and so they learn to love books, I never hear people talk about And that should change. Kids should see that it is really part Secondly, in our schools, regardless it has to tie-in with real life Kids should taste the excitement That's what our math should look like. Because that's what they're going to do And, finally, for those of us we have to retrain our thinking, We have to see how there are numbers and in every decision we make, and that there's a number in every object, If we are aware of that, And in most cases the numbers We just have to do the math. Thank you. (Applause)