The story of Polybius is one of the It started as one of the Internet's earliest urban legends and despite not having much evidence, the Polybius story lives on. It goes like this: in 1981, the United States government commissioned an addictive arcade game. Gameplay was similar to Tempest, and incorporated puzzles and subliminal messages. It has horrible physical and mental effects on anyone who played it. It caused seizures, hallucinations, amnesia, night terrors. In extreme cases, the game caused suicide and even sudden death. The Polybius arcade cabinets and they only appeared in Portland, Oregon and the surrounding suburbs. Men in black suits visited the arcades to download data the game generated on each of its players. Some say that the mental and physical toll the game took on its players was the government's method Others say that Polybius was designed for mind control. It was published by a company called Sinnesloschen, which in English very roughly It created chaos and forever Then, as quickly and mysteriously it vanished. For years, Polybius tales were relatively quiet, but that changed in 2006 when someone who identified himself as Steven Roach posted on a Coinop.org forum. He claimed that he set up and that he and his fellow to do so by a southern American company. He say they knew they were creating an addictive game but panicked when Polybius gave He said they disbanded the company shortly after Polybius was pulled from the market. For some people, Steven Roach's post was as It corroborated a lot of what people For them, his post was proof that Polybius existed, that it addicted and hurt its players, and that the game really was So that's the story but... is any of it actually true? Let's start with the public record, and let's just assume that Polybius really existed and that it did hurt its players. Mainstream news sources such a controversial game. In the early '80s, arcades were condsidered pretty seedy establishments. Such a scandalous story On top of that, there were publications that focused solely on the gaming industry. But when Polybius supposedly it was never mentioned. In fact, the earliest references to Polybius only appeared several years after and were written in the context of But just because it didn't appear in the media doesn't mean that Polybius never existed. What about those kids who got sick in arcades? And what about the men in black suits? This was all pretty intriguing to journalist Cat DeSpira. She grew up in Portland. She moved there when she was a young teen and she actually hung out at the arcade where Polybius supposedly tormented its players. She spent a good portion of her adolescence there and remembers that Portland was She says that sometimes unmarked cabinets would appear in local arcades. They'd be labeled simply &quot;New Game.&quot; Or they'd have a name, by the time it was officially released. Despite spending a lot of time in Portland-area arcades, Cat didn't hear about the Polybius But instead of writing Polybius Cat looked into it. In fact, she spent months researching the story. And what she and other researchers have found is that there are kernels of truth to the Polybius story. One bit of truth is that kids got sick at arcades. Around the time that Polybius was allegedly released, 12-year-old Brian Mauro developed an upset stomach while playing a video game. It made the news. Brian had been playing for 28 hours straight. He was going for a record but a stomach ache brought on by too many Coca-Colas took him out of the running. Here's the thing though: he was playing Asteroids, not Polybius. Later, at the same arcade and on the same day, a 14-year-old named Michael Lopez But he was playing Tempest. A year later in Illinois, an 18-year-old named Peter Burkowski died from a heart attack while playing Berzerk. So people have gotten sick while playing video games. And some have even died playing video games. It's true that flashing lights in the right pattern can cause seizures. Some people probably have gotten but none of these incidents In all likelihood, they just helped and make the story seem more credible. But what about the men in black suits who came to download data Well, there's a kernel of truth there, too. In an interview with Eurogamer, Todd Luoto, who was working explained that the FBI did That's because back in the early '80s, arcades didn't exactly have a family-friendly reputation. Arcades were sometimes seen as havens for gambling or drug abuse. In early December of 1981, right around the time that Polybius was on the market, and not long after the Portland boys got sick playing Asteroids and Tempest, the FBI concluded a year-long investigation into a Portland-area arcade owner who was accused of rigging Then in 1982, after a seven-month undercover sting operation, federal agents arrested 25 suspects in Games People Play arcade in Seattle, Washington on charges of racketeering. And then there's Steven Roach, the man who claimed to help create Polybius. While some believe him, his story seems sketchy at best. In his long, rambling post, he makes several grammatical errors. He even misspells the name of the A lot of people have raised doubts Sinnesloschen, which in English translates to &quot;sensory deprivation,&quot; but apparently is an awkward word combination that a fluent German speaker probably wouldn't use. Cat DeSpira, one of the journalists believes she tracked down the Her conclusions are unsettling. In her article, she writes that he and his wife ran horrific behavioral modification schools for children, where the kids were subjected It's a disturbing story, but it's hard to know whether the was even really named Steven Roach, let alone whether he was the same Steven Roach that Cat discovered. Either way, the Steven Roach post A mystery with some kernels of truth but not much evidence to back it up. Whether you think Polybius is real or not, we can probably all agree that the story isn't going to die out anytime soon. It's one of gamings biggest urban legends. It was a joke on The Simpsons. And last month, a Polybius game was even added to the PlayStation store. Personally, I don't believe Polybius was ever a real game. But it does make for a good story. That's all for this episode of The Gaming Historian. Thanks for watching! (&quot;Gaming Historian&quot; theme plays) - [Woman] Funding for Gaming by supporters on Patreon. Thank you.