Tonight's speaker is one of Jefferson Lab's own, Doctor Higinbotham graduated in 1992 from major in physics and a minor in mathematics. He attended graduate school at the graduating with a Ph.D. in nuclear physics He joined Jefferson Lab in 2001 and In the course of his work he proposes ideas for new experiments, and helps carry out experiments conducted at the Lab. He mentors doctoral candidates as well as and has twice been awarded the U.S. Department of Energy's Without further ado, I introduce to you Douglas Higinbotham, [Applause] So, thank you all for coming out tonight. So, in 60 minutes we're going to cover three big questions. What are the building blocks of matter? What are you made out of? What am I made out of? How do we do an experiment here at Jefferson Lab? And, finally, why is it important? So, everything I tell you about up until that point is basic research. A basic question. It's an old question. It's basically a question man asked himself As we build up society, a very natural question, &quot;What is the world around us made out of?&quot; Many famous minds have pondered that question. This is Aristotle's answer to that question. And, if you think about it, think about the world you Water, for survival. The earth, for growing things. Fire, for warmth. And the wind. For sailing, fishing. All these things went together in a natural pattern. And, though it's hard in Newport News to see you'd look up and see the beautiful stars in the heavens, so we'll call at the aether. That was kind of Aristotle's out. So, everythingthat couldn't be explained with That could be the divine substance. This is a beautiful picture of everything. I'm sure they're quite proud of themselves for coming But, we didn't stop here. I'm going to jump way forward... This is the periodic table of the elements. So, we've gone forward nearly two thousand years in human thought. What you're looking at, and for those of you who had chemistry You've seen this before. Hydrogen. Helium. Lithium. This is an organization of all the It was organized by its properties, so this row - hydrogen Explosive, very reactive. On the other side of this table, the helium, argon. These are inert. They don't react with anything. In the middle, the metals. The gold, the silver. This is organized by the properties of the elements. A very natural way to organize things. What people hadn't yet done is figured out &quot;Why?&quot; Why did nature arrange itself this way? This is just organized by the property of the material and its weight. Jumping forward another step. Quantum-mechanical table of the elements. It turns out that just by organizing things in a periodic table, That's a big, scary word. Quantum mechanics. What the heck does quantum mechanics even mean? When you guys are driving a car down the road can go any speed you want? What stops you? Speed limits. Okay, but can you go down Jefferson Avenue, can you go 43 miles per hour? 44? 45? 43.5? You can pick any speed you like. If you go too fast, the Newport News cops will pull you over. But, it's any speed you like that your car is capable of going. Quantum mechanics is a different world. It's a world we're not that familiar with, but is around us. It says all different variations are not possible, You ever see a neon light? It glows a pretty color. It glows a single color. It's a transition. It's a quantum-mechanical transition. Only certain wavelengths are allowed. It would be like only certain speeds are allowed. That you could only go exactly 45 on Jefferson Avenue. Not any less or any more. That's the idea of quantum mechanics, And we get down to the very very small, Everything is in discrete steps. And this periodic table, it turns out, is Hydrogen, with one electron and one proton. You then go to helium, with its two And you've filled an outer shell. Once a shell is filled, it doesn't This whole concept, the coming together of quantum mechanics, So, they were starting to figure out where I have over 100 different species, Protons, neutrons and electrons. This entire table, every element, all the way up to you very heavy elements Protons, neutrons and electrons. Even cooler, as we studied our various elements... This is hydrogen, helium... Turns out they're different isotopes. You can have different numbers of protons and neutrons. So, for hydrogen, for example, just a proton by itself. Or, proton with a neutron. Or, a proton with two neutrons. That's hydrogen, deuterium, tritium. These are isotopes. Still, all built up from protons, neutrons and electrons. And, for me, in school this is So, my high school education, protons, neutrons and electrons. Those were the building blocks of matter. That explained the periodic table. If you understood a little bit of quantum mechanics, you Beautiful. But, is that the end of the story? If it was, I probably wouldn't be standing here. This is where we've gotten to today and So, this is a complex nucleus here. Shown, built, of protons and neutrons. Just colored red and blue. If you zoom in on one of those objects, what we found They're made up of even more stuff. So, starting with our earth, wind, fire, water... You broke it down, we figured out it's We've now broken that down and found that our And we came up with these fabulous words: quarks and gluons. So, today. To this day, we still think quarks are And they're held together with glue. Gluons. Scientists are very creative with their words. So, this is today's picture of This is all of them. For most of what we do in everyday The protons, made up of two up quarks and a down. This is the entire table of all the fundamental particles. I've even included the recently discovered Higgs boson. But, this is it. Up quarks, down quarks make protons and neutrons. Two ups and a down is a proton. Two downs and an up is a neutron. And you can go on from there. And there's all kinds of particles Does anyone remember Einstein's formula? E equals... What does that mean? E = mc^2. Great. Energy to mass. So, if I pump in energy into a system, I can make mass. I can make matter. So, one thing a lot of people don't appreciate is, where we don't have the highest energies, a Higgs boson like they can at CERN, to make the elementary particles. Some are called pions, kaons, lambdas. It's a whole particle zoo. But we can pump energy into a system and make new matter. By just pumping energy in. And, what happens is, you end up with different For you and me, it's up and down The rest of this family of quarks are fairly esoteric. Charm, strange, top and bottom. All have been found. Gluon holding it together. Photons. That's certainly part for everyday The electron. Neutrinos, which have been very popular to study. Very weakly interacting. This is the family. This is what we currently think would be And this really was the missing piece, the Higgs boson. So we think we now have a set. What we don't know, and its the mission how do you go from this set of So, we understand protons, neutrons and electrons. If I have those pieces, I can build up We have found these fundamental smashing things together, and What we don't know, and is is how do you put quarks together How does nature do it? So there's two thrusts going on at this laboratory. One, theoretical. We have a huge array of computers working trying to solve something called which takes these building blocks, puts it into a computer algorithm using to see if we can figure out how Can we really model it? Can we really start from this set and It's a huge effort. Takes a lot of computing power. Under way to this day. At the other extreme, we experimentally What makes them really strange: That's weird. With a proton or a neutron or You always can see that one object. Everything we're used to, everything it down to its fundamental block and see it. With these guys, in general, And by doing many many experiments and that you can observe, you deduce the quarks. Now, my friends up in New York take gold and smash it on gold at extremely of quarks and gluons, which is a beautiful idea. So, for a brief moment, you can liberate constituents in a plasma before it evaporates. That's the best we've been able to do. And, certainly experiments at CERN Here, we look at what these quarks So, I'll just give you a little There are roughly 2,000 scientists who There are very few places left that Here in Newport News, Jefferson Lab, That's the big nuclear physics There's one more coming online in Michigan. A lot of university of Virginia professors... Virginia universities. There's William and Mary, Hampton, Old Dominion... They come here to do nuclear physics. So, these two thousand scientists - of people travel here to Newport I have a good friend from Slovenia, It's really an international facility to study quarks and gluons. We roughly get 10 Ph.D.'s a year from Jefferson Lab. That's over a third of the Ph.D.'s in are granted here in Newport News. So, this really is the hub of nuclear physics We have college programs, high school programs. I'm currently mentoring a high school student. And these are fabulous programs to And any of you in the audience today really Department of Energy and National not only at this laboratory, but there's opportunities to go to So, go out the California to SLAC, or even to CERN, in Switzerland, to see And as I said before, our basic mission how do you go from quarks and gluons We think these are the fundamental to understand how you go from It's a fundamental question. And, our problem is, you never see just one. They're always confined, and coming So, I assumed, I think assume correctly, How many of you have done a science fair project? About half. So, I want to present a Jefferson Lab experiment How long does it take you to From beginning to end. Days? Weeks? How long you think it takes me to do an [Amusingly Loud Kid] Years! Years! Good job! So this is just a cute experiment. So, you know, how many paper clips You probably could play with different batteries. So, for your science fair project, using hypothesis on how it works, you do the experiment, and the most important thing for a science fair project, data and analysis. Data and analysis. I've seen beautiful science fair projects. They come up with great experiments and Right? You want to test the hypothesis. You need to come up with some idea that you're testing. Right? So, for this picture behind me, I need a variable. Maybe try different combinations of Data and analysis. And in the end, I draw conclusions. I want a really big battery if I want to Science fair project. My science fair projects. So, I may be 44, but I'm still doing science fair. It's just gotten grand in scale. So, Jefferson Lab. Nuclear physics experiment. I have an idea. I have a question I want to answer. Proposal. It's already a little different than science fair. Usually, you write a paragraph to your teacher, she goes &quot;Yeah, that looks nice. Electromagnet. Great.&quot; Here, you write a document. It tends to be of order 30 pages long, though I have to admit that I've seen ones over 100, where you write down your idea, you reference all that has come before, and what you expect to get out of the experiment. You then defended it. So, you take 12 senior scientist, you stand up here, just like I'm standing before you, I try to convince them that this is the greatest experiment, and we need to do it. And, of those long documents we've written, two-thirds are rejected. In general, having worked here for That come here are all world class. It's almost a shame we can't do them all. This rejection factor - we lose two-thirds - I can't do every single idea people come up with. So, we have to prioritize. We try to guess what the best science is. And, part of that is picking a diverse If your experiment hasn't run after three years - 3 years?! This laboratory typically has a So, more likely than not, even you're going to come back and you're So, your idea needs to remain topical. If it's not, we'll pick something else. Funding. A lot of the experiments here need money. They need new equipment. So, not only do you need to convince our it's a good experiment, you're going to need National Science Foundation or international should fund this. This really is going to have a huge If you can get your money, avoid jeopardy, you can build it. We then review the experiment to make sure it's ready, both for its scientific point of view and for safety. Then we run it. Running. How long you think an experiment takes run here at the lab? Day? Year? Most of them, about three months. We've had ones go as long as two years. We've had some that are just one day. And everything in between. But, in roughly a few months, And, we can run as many as three After the experiment is done, we've generated Usually a couple of years. And, it's the data from the experiments generating Ph.D.'s. Finally, you get to publication. Writing it all down. And it's approximately one decade. So, 10 years, from the beginning to the end. Now, of course, people are just doing one experiment. They have several going at a time. So, you may be working on the idea of one while You're also analyzing some data for So, it's an ongoing process and people have So, I want to give you one example. So, we do many many experiments here. I just want to give you an example, a taste, So, hear's a question: &quot;What happens when a So, protons and neutrons... Yeah, so... Nope, she had... What do you think happens Anybody? Yeah. Nuclear fusion. So, a proton and neutron free, go together, That would be fusion. Absolutely. So, in my cartoon here, I'm actually So, this is suppose to be protons and neutrons This picture would be helium-4 with four. But the proton and neutron can come close together. Process of fusion. Would it be possible to see the deformation of the quarks? So, this is a cartoon of protons and neutrons, And it's showing two of them coming Could I do an experiment to probe that and learn a What's happening inside carbon, for example? In fact, that was the experiment. The idea was take carbon and see if I can find inside see if I can probe carbon when the proton See if I can see something special coming out of that. So, electrons coming in, electrons scatter. That's our primary tool here at Jefferson Lab. Its an electron machine. We take a beam of electrons, put it on a material. It can be hydrogen, carbon, lead... Whatever we like. Whatever we're studying. We know the beam from our accelerator friends Step one of our experiment. If I want to see particles coming out, In this cartoon - electron in, electron out - And I want to see what comes out, if anything. But, I do that experiment. This was originally proposed in 1997. They somehow got off the hook for a year. They came back in 2001 for jeopardy. Finally got approved. So, '97 start date. This is the aerial view of Jefferson Lab. Jefferson Avenue along here, on the road. So, those hills that you see when you're our experimental halls are located. Our accelerator starts here. That's where our electrons are produced. It's all under ground. It's a racetrack design. Electrons can go around as many as five times. Then they're directed to one of our three experimental halls. And they set this place up so we could run all three at So it's a machine running at 1.5 gigahertz. That's a big frequency, but everyone has And each hall receives 500 megahertz of beam. We can do three experiments at the same This is the cartoon view. First picture is making the electrons. So, does anyone still have a CRT TV? The big, heavy TVs? Yeah? A few of you. All those TVs were the way we used to make electrons. Literally bent wire, run a current through it, can focus it with a cathode, put on That's history. So just like only a few of you have that type a TV, We use lasers. Yeah, lasers are cool. In fact, Einstein didn't win the Nobel Prize for E = mc^2. Einstein won the Nobel Prize for the photoelectric effect. The idea that you could put laser light, put photons, So, all of the electrons that are liberated here a material called strained gallium arsenide. That makes our beam. Goes around our racetrack as many as five times This photograph of our accelerator that pushes And our arcs, that bend around. These are simple bending magnets. And these are superconducting accelerators Six billion electron volts is We have just upgraded the machine. We've just got approval to run. Actually, had the Virginia governor We can now get up to twelve billion electron volts. The reason we push in energy - the higher I go in So if I want to see the very very small, That's why all the facilities, whether it's whether it's quarks and gluons or Higgs bosons, And this is the principal that drives that statement. Heisenberg. One of the old masters of quantum mechanics. So, one formula. One formula only for Delta-x delta-p greater than h-bar over two. Uncertainty in position times an uncertainty For tonight, it's just a number. Point two GeV times femtometer. What Heisenberg's talking about is it's impossible to know It's again a quantum mechanical idea. One you're not used to except, in a way, we are. Ever used a camera? If someone's running really fast and you take a picture So, you know when you took the picture. Where are they? They're blurred. They're spread out. So, you know time, but you don't know position. If I use very high speed film and photograph There's no blur. Now I can't tell how fast they're going. It's from the blur that you can tell, from looking at photograph, So, there are examples in the classical world of this same This is a fundamental limit. As far as we know, no way out. On the other hand, it explains why at Jefferson So 10 billion electron volts, or 10 GeV, lets me get Really lets me see what's inside. This is a cartoon of one set of our microscopes. We call them spectrometers. In this cartoon we have people, here. This is in our Experimental Hall A. Electron beam in. Put a target material in the center of our hall. I detect scattered electrons and This is what it looks like in real life. Cartoon. Two microscopes. Real life. A mess. Target's still in the center of the room The same device. Absolutely enormous. I need the really big to see the really small. I need very powerful magnets and detector systems. And this physically is what it takes. One thing that's great about this photograph And scientists love to build stuff for an empty spot. So, back to the experiment. The idea they had in mind, send the electron beam in, and see what comes out. Does one thing come out, lots of things come out? And thats where the blank spot is, Would I see a proton coming out, What would I see? The idea require building new equipment, shown in a cartoon. They wanted a new scattering chamber, A bending magnet. A scintillator and a neutron detector. They detect protons coming out or neutrons coming out. We gathered the magnet from Amsterdam. This is it sinking into the Dutch soil. We brought it here. Recycled it. Group in Israel made particle detectors for us. A group in Glasgow mode more of our detectors. University of Virginia built the scattering chamber And Kent State provided neutron detectors. So, for all the experiments we do here at the Lab, it tends to be a community effort, an international effort, getting scientists here building equipment And this is what it looked like when it was all put together. They have a bending magnet, so if a proton came Neutrons have no charge, so they don't get bent by a magnet, would pass through a lead wall and be detected this back detector. So, they had a great experiment to do. Electron in, electron out. Protons going forward and see what comes back. Are they protons coming back, neutrons coming back, to try They started in '97. Reapproved in 2001. We finally ran. It only took a few months to actually run. We had three Ph.D. students: one from MIT, one from They lived here for over two years, analyzing that data. They start with the information of charged particles passing compare a theory, write theses and papers. So, finally getting all that done. Three Ph.D. theses, an article in the Journal of Science, And what we saw surprised a lot of people, We came in on carbon. Electron in, electron out. Proton forward. And what we saw was always a neutron coming back. It was as if, in carbon, there are The expectation was we'd see lots of Real life was proton-neutron. That's why it was an exciting result, It got a lot of press. And we tried to do a good job of And the importance, beyond this cartoon of this actually has implications all This is a cartoon of a naive It's mostly neutrons. And, naively, you'd go &quot;Oh, there are a few &quot;It's mostly going to be about a sea of neutrons.&quot; What our experiments said is &quot;No, protons So, in a system like a neutron star, where there be sitting there doing nothing. They're going to pair up and That's a paradigm shift and, to this day, this has become So, from beginning to end, about a decade. So, we did an experiment where we learned a little bit about what It has implications not only for nuclear physics, but astrophysics. I think that was pretty cool. But... Who cares?! This is all basic research and it's nice, it's nice figuring out and thought that goes into doing these experiments? Who cares?! These are expensive experiments to do. So, I'm going to give you a few examples of who cares. One. Kathy McCormick. She got her Ph.D. here at This is a truck driving past something. Does anyone have a clue what that might be? It's a particle detector! Absolutely! If you want to know, in the trans-containers that that there's no bombs - nuclear bombs - you need because when you're working with business, time is money. Here's the idea. Put particle detectors that the truck gas to drive by. At the same time, we're weighing the truck. If you do have weapon in that truck, a nuclear weapon, because a nuclear weapon emits radiation that we can at Jefferson Lab, or you have shielded it was so much lead Either way we're going to know something's funny, So, Kathy McCormack cares about nuclear physics. Who else? Gordon Cates, professor at the He was very interested in something He wanted to study the neutron. Helium-3 has two protons, one neutron. We've known for a long time that the magnetic moment So, he's trying to learn about He came up with a very clever way to polarize Then he had a brilliant insight They were complaining about the inability of an MRI machine... Magnetic resonance imaging, which is but they don't use the word 'nuclear' at the hospital. Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of the lungs. This is what a picture of your lungs Has anyone sucked on helium gas from a balloon? Yeah, it's inert. On that periodic What if you sucked in a little Gordon's That's this picture. So, Gordon came up with an idea, who was actually Princeton at the time, listening to people complain about their says &quot;Hey! I have polarized helium-3! They literally tried it in a baggie and a straw. Suck some in. Did the image. And - POW - it worked. So, Gordon cares. Who else cares? Tancredi Botto. This is one of my colleagues He went to work for Schlumburger. Oil exploration. What the heck does oil How do you know where to drill? Schlumburger's a company that's been around They tell people where to drill. What Schlumburger does, they drill exploratory a radioactive source down the hole, taking data They can tell you from the data exactly what the So, they're using particle detector techniques to map out, And, when you're drilling for oil, you look for So, oil exploration also relies on nuclear physics. Thea Kepple cares. She works here Jefferson Lab and was Scientific Director Inoperable tumors. How do we go after it? We have built, here in Hampton Roads, a proton accelerator. Leveraging the resources and knowledge and people as well as some very charismatic people at Hampton University. All got together. They built a proton accelerator here. What's really cool about protons is that they stop very suddenly. If you have an inoperable brain tumor, through your brain, and have them stop on the tumor, Thea cares. And this is just a huge windfall for And, finally, who else cares? And this is probably the oddest example of all. James Simons cares. Last I checked, he was the 88th richest person in the world. James Simons was the originator of quantitative finance. He took the techniques and skills - mathematics, etcetera - that His original paper dates back from the late sixties. So, his company was one of the first. What's amusing about his company, He doesn't want business majors. He only hires Ph.D.'s in math and science. He can teach anyone business, but he can't teach Monte Carlo simulations, all the tools that He hires some of our best and brightest. They apply that to business and I think He's done extremely well in quantitative finance. So, there's just a few examples, and I tried to that have come from Jefferson Lab. So, time to wake up and ask some questions. Thank you! [Applause] Yep! In the back. [Audience Member] What's the purpose of sending Ah! Excellent question. So, the reason we're sending the electrons around the track So, at a facility that came before us in California them down a mile through an accelerator. And it the accelerator pieces, that are extremely expensive. So, the clever idea they had for this facility is And magnets to bend the beam around are cheap. So, we accelerate, bend around, accelerate, same accelerator again to get even more energy. It's all about money. I can put the accelerator in a smaller footprint, and Yeah. [Audience Member] Going back to that, What will limit you in the end and, actually, we have as a charged particle get bent around, it'll start that grows very fast with energies. So, eventually So, it's almost like a race car at the racetrack. You get up to 200 miles per hour, 300 miles per Same idea, different situation. Yep. [Audience Member] How long is it exactly around Roughly a mile. You start from the injector, Yep. [Audience Member] (Too faint to make out. So in the halls, some the domes are bigger than the others. I only talked tonight about one of our What I didn't mention is those two giant spectrometers So, we need a huge room to be able to do that. And we have - That particular hall has the biggest dome. The hall immediately beside it has a very small dome. Their detector basically looks like a giant, Nothing moved. So, an enormous detector, but it fit in So, those hills are really custom... are built above And, the idea was, different experiments In a very general level, Hall A was two microscopes and in Hall C, you could build whatever you wanted. [Audience Member] You mentioned this when you were All the places you named were federal agencies. Is there Any private corporations? So, one of the biggest at the So, James Simons, who was originally a math professor, with the funding of our sister lab in Brookhaven. And, probably the more important thing he's which is providing a lot of money where we, as scientists, put our So, yes, there are some private revenue streams. For our federal funding, I think what's most important money that comes here because it's really easy raise Has a lot more weight if you also get your on the world that also say &quot;We want to do this That helps tremendously. And on all of our big experiments we built big, their manpower, their equipment, their money... Yeah. [Audience Member] When an electron turns, Yes. [Audience Member] So why don't you just make it, into just a straight line, so it doesn't and accelerating and it hits the, So, the question was, &quot;Why not just make a straight line?&quot; And you also mentioned the speed of light. So, our friends in California, at SLAC did It's more expensive. It's as simple as that. It's more expensive to make the long straight But, you're right, they can get to a higher energy. It's a trade-off. The particles we accelerate here at Jefferson Lab - We take electrons, one of the smallest fundamental Twelve billion electron volts. It's going 0.99999... the speed of light. Brute force. You can't get past the speed of light. We keep putting in more energy, You never get exactly to the speed of light. Yep. [Audience Member] ...always have to go at the speed of (... unintelligible ... ) Do you always hit the same place at the same time So, it's very much a... So, I'm taking a foil of carbon and I'm putting and lots of events so I can figure out what happens. It's almost like playing a game of pool where and you're firing the cue ball in there and but you don't actually see the moment that it hits. I don't see that part and that's actually I see what comes out. I have to figure But, you do enough experiments, if you you never saw the rack of balls, you could figure when you fire in from different angles. Yeah. [Audience Member] Is it safe (... unintelligible ... ) underground? Yes. So, when Jefferson Lab is running, That means there's radiation when our machine is on. There's radiation from the electrons bending. There's radiation from the electrons We turn our beam off, almost with the exceptions of the material I'm it will still be activated, and our dumps. So, if you look carefully from Jefferson Avenue, They have large vats of water at the end that [Audience Member] ...it's not going to get anybody. We dont... We aren't in there when the beam is running. And they're very careful to make sure no So, beam running, everyone's out. We have a Yeah. [Audience Member] Is the radiation emitted So, it would be electromagnetic. So, alphas and betas would be Yeah, in the back. [Audience Member] I mean, as best I understand it, it'll also be increasing in size. Starting off as at this, by the time it gets, Whatever the number is. How much larger I don't like... I don't think 'large' is the right Mass. So, an electron, in the units that We'd say half an MeV. And we're accelerating it to 12 GeV. So, we've put more energy in it than it weighs. Which is an unbelievable amount. And we've seen pictures of a nuclear and turned that material partially into energy. We take the electrons here, we've now put They're still not going faster than the speed of light. Now, whether you want to look at it as it gained mass And, quite frankly, it really depends on how you Whether you want to think of it as a very massive It doesn't matter. E = mc^2. Energy. Mass. There's an equivalence there. So, its okay. Yeah. [Audience Member] When you run your So, where does this radiation go So, the question is, &quot;Where does the radiation go So, for example... I said we turn on the I turn it off, it's gone. So, electrons going around there arc They're being absorbed in the walls down in the Hall. And, as soon as you turn it off, all those photons hit the walls, get absorbed. They're gone. Going into heat. The same thing is going on when you go goes through the x-ray machine at the airport. They're putting radiation on your bag. They're looking at what passes through, the x-rays Turn off the machine, it's off. [Someone in Audience] Or your microwave oven. Microwave ovens. [Audience Member] What's the configuration of your carbon target? Just a foil. I order it from a company called Goodfellows. They will send you a nice big sheet of carbon. We cut it down to a nice foil. Put that foil in the beam so it's perpendicular. Run the beam straight through it. It's a very simple set-up and it's very easy to [Audience Member] (... unintelligible ... ) What are the walls made of? Concrete! [Audience Member] How does, how does That's -protons- that are getting rid of the tumors. So, again, the idea is radiation can damage cells. That's kind of why we worry about getting exposed to radiation. It can damage cells. You can get a tumor. On the other hand, if I can put the So, the proton therapy machine here in They would do an MRI. If you heard brain That means I can't operate get it out. I do an MRI scan of your head. I'd locate exactly where the tumor is. And then I would put the protons exactly The technology to build a machine like the proton The problem was we didn't have the You really needed an MRI machine. You need to be able to scan the brain I don't want to put the proton beam and have protons So I needed an MRI and I needed a computer. I needed a powerful computer really to So, it's a really clever trick. I'm going to put protons and I'm going Just on the thing I want to kill. So, I can use radiation to kill the bad stuff, too. So, in this case, we're using Yep. Speak up? Oh, okay. Yep. [Audience Member] If you were in, like, the proton therapy, would the radiation go inside of your body? So, the question... If you had the proton machine and they're A little bit. And, there are tradeoffs. So, most of the energy from the proton will stop on the tumor. A little bit goes through your brain and The clever thing that they do when you go in for they'd send the beam in from your left side and, They come in at different angles. So, they're not going through... So, they go through different parts of your brain. Give very small dose as possible to brain tissue, Try to kill the tumor. Any small amount of radiation can harm you, But, very small amounts have been shown to do very little. In fact, we're getting it right now. You're always getting radiation. So, the rate of radiation we get right now is called a millirem. We get roughly 365 millirem a year of radiation. And that's just part of being here on this planet. Radiation comes from our sun, hits our atmosphere, cascades down, So, a square meter - so this table - it's a hundred Right now. I can't see them, but they're there. So, radiation is around us all the time. And, that's one misconception people have about radiation. They just hear 'radiation' and go 'BAD!' without really And, there is a trade off between When you're at the dentist. You have So, you're getting a little bit of radiation, and the develop into something worse outweighs the risk of So, it's always a trade off. [Moderator] Let's take a moment. Some of you Some of you may wish to stick around a little bit longer. I'll go ahead and open the door, or you can use the back door. If you need a piece of paper signed for school, The rest of you are welcome to stay So, if you have any more questions, just come on down. Thank you very much! [Applause]