- From frying oil to flying Let's find out guys. (upbeat, rocking electric guitar music) - Here's a sample of the These actually came out of - It's not as strong as the Jet A. This feels like a diet version But it's certainly the it's very transparent here. It's all look like very clear. The big question is, So with the sustainable aviation fuel, and a 747 has four engines, but one of the engine is So that's where the is going to go into that on a 787 can take 100% (upbeat, rocking electric guitar music) - Hey, this is Charlie all all the way to sunny Tucson. This is our Rolls-Royce And I'm about to give - What a pleasure. My first time walking My favourite aeroplane, 747. Look it up Experimental, Tucson. - Hey, welcome inside the This the nose of the plane We have everything removed. It gives us more space for maintenance. (upbeat, energetic electric guitar music) - So today we're going to be flying the new SAF fuel, on the flying testbed. So it's just really good. Today, we're going to be and decelerations to see We're going to switch the engine off and switch it back on again, and look at the progression of the relay to see how that behaves So the pilots are going to be doing all those kind of manoeuvres. And right here, I'm going to be looking at the engine in a bit more detail. I'm going to be looking I'm going to be looking at how the igniters behave during the relight. So yeah, it should be a good flight. - [Sam] Are you confident the engine can use 100% SAF - Yes, on the Trent 1000 engine we've done some ground testing to de-risk the SAF running on a Trent 1000. So we're very, very confident that we can get this engine (upbeat, dramatic electric guitar music) - Isn't this cool? The whole section has only one seat here. And I'm the only passenger in the middle of the 747. And see here, we still - Oh yeah, yeah. - You know, the projectors. - That projectors and all, and then the screen will be here. - [Sam] On the testbed you have movies. What are these stuff here? - So this is when we modified from... We have an electronic start that we have to put on wings. So this aircraft had to be modified, specifically, for electric start. And then we kept seats in the back, therefore balanced for the - [Sam] Okay. - And obviously, nobody sits back here when we do our flight testing, 'cause there's no drop down oxygen. We're now in the full - [Sam] Look at this. - Don't see that on a plane very much. And then up here, Sam, we The flight recorders. - Yeah, yeah. Spiral staircase, they 'cause it's kind of cool. Let's go, man. - It's been awhile, I remember myself, coming onto one of these spiral staircase. It's beautiful, classic Oh my gosh, there's actually, (chuckles) business class seats on it. Wow, look at this. My one doesn't quite recline, because I think the green it's kind of giving away the I think it came from a very So you guys can guess it and look up the history of this aeroplane. (upbeat, intense electric guitar music) I'm with a legend here, (Buzz laughs) Who actually flew to He flew to China before were restored in 1973, delivered one of the first 707 to CAAC. - First flight with a Trent We're expecting to have a normal flight. Don't expect any kind of surprises with the engine and the fuel. It's going to be a We have a lot of test conditions to do, so we're going to wring out the engine, and the fuel combination. The route of flight will We're going to climb to a medium altitude, about 20,000 feet initially to perform a few tests as we head to the east to Western Texas. The entire flight, we're estimating at about four hours flight time today. (engine whooshes loudly) (engine whooshes and whines) (engine whining and revving) (engine roaring) (engines whining and roaring) (engines roaring) (engine whooshes) - I love that jet fuel smell I'm not sure it's the Jet A, or the sustainable aviation fuel. (engines roar) (Sam speaking faintly) - The inboard lights are on. (co-pilot mumbles) - Okay, got inboards on. Got your steering and we'll go up. Get this stream going, okay, here we go. (engines whooshing) (metal rattles) First speeds alive. 80 knots. (engine whooshing) B1. Rotate. (indistinct) Gear up. (engines roaring) - I love seeing that 747 So it's going to take the over to West Texas. And hopefully, it'll come back. And let's see how the performance using sustainable aviation fuel. Can aviation go green? Let's find out. (upbeat, rocking electric guitar music) So after the plane took off we the engineer's monitoring on the Flight Aware. Right now, it's doing just over New Mexico. The only 747-200 in the How's it performing right now? Why is it still a little - Currently, the aircraft is at the slower speed replicating that we're going to do We'll be accelerating the aircraft, decelerating the aircraft, changing altitudes on the aircraft, just to replicate the - You know, I would have go on a flight to feel the acceleration, deceleration, but I'm not an engineer. - That's right. on the ground, now. So while the flight is out testing, I have an expert from Boeing, He's going to explain to us what exactly is sustainable aviation fuel? - So I'm holding a sample of It's the same as normal jet fuel, except it comes from sustainable sources. It can come from any We tend to focus on waste-based things like used cooking In the future, forestry waste, municipal solid waste, agricultural waste. Really any type of carbon source, any kind of biomass can provided it's made sustainably. - But is the SAF really that there's not enough - It's a little bit of a where there's low supply, and So we need to get the scale up in order to drive the cost down. But we can't get the scale up, until the costs come down. So we really need some to help bridge the gap and the future supply base, so it can be economical for the - [Sam] How many millions are we producing right now? - Today's production volume is around five to 10 million gallons per year. But we're looking forward to the next decade or so. The Biden Administration has set a goal of hitting three billion And that would be a great - So Sam, we've now We're descending back down 20,000 feet to try to get back to Tucson. (engine whooshing) (wind whooshes) - [Co-Pilot] 100. 50, 40, 30, 20, 10, five. (metal rattles) (wind whooshes) (engine whooshing) (indistinct) 360 here. - 60. I think that's what he said. (equipment beeping) All right. Good job, Buzz. - Good job, Brad. Good one. (engine roaring) (engine roars) - I saw a very graceful So we're coming down to the hardstand, try to meet the plane now. (upbeat, rocking electric guitar music) So I can't wait to hear from you guys. How did that test flight go? - Today was successful. We were able to complete as we set out to. - So we used the SAF fuel through the Trent engine today. We did some sharp accelerations, so that the pilots did to full throttle, and It's all looking really good. We're going to look into that and it's really looking - [Sam] Tell us about today's flight. - Well, I have to say it was very routine. It was just exactly like a normal, any other flight that I've I've been flying this testbed And today's flight was - [Sam] So what did you do to - Well, the orange colour and make it easier for that in fact is the Trent engine, and not one of the others. Because it's easy when and you want to do a We set the Trent engine up to the condition they want to test, and then we use the RB-211s to maintain the altitude and air speed that we need to do. You can see the engines. Throttles will look sort of They're never lined up. - [Sam] What's this little string on this? - Well, that's just a reminder (levers clicking) we want this engine to be at idle, only because it makes the We want to cool the Trent for five minutes at idle before we shut it down. So typically, we don't use the Trent during approach and landing. We just make a three-engine approach and landing using that. And that's not because but then after landing we have before we can shut it down. And we'd already be back at (upbeat, energetic electric guitar music) (everyone applauds) (Buzz applauds) (upbeat, energetic electric guitar music) - Every test flight is I am looking forward to the (upbeat, energetic electric guitar music)