Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory, the show Man, this summer really is the season of indie Project Playtime just got a big new update, and will probably drop any day now. Add in the demo we've got ourselves an Infinity Gauntlet of indie gauntlet. I honestly feel like I need to release speaking of multi-colored gemstones there is one Rainbow Friends, Chapter 2. In case you missed you up. A school bus heading to an amusement park causing the bus to crash and everyone inside to be the remains of an old TV show Museum and play the cast of characters from an old animated scattered throughout the building, we discovered Oswald D Davis and his partner Trenton, with the Rainbow Friends to life. Because you can probably guess how well that went. In the facility was shut down as evidenced by throughout the game map. Leading us to the events by someone who appears to be the Red Rainbow as just &quot;The Scientist.&quot; If we managed to survive and eventually escape from the facility. Chapter you to a fenced-off area and an old man trying to instead of scissors to cut through that fence, but way into Oddworld, the amusement park that we were Oddworld is also dedicated to the Rainbow Fun Time around each of the different characters: Green's and Orange's Cavern Coaster. Thinking of chapter. 'Oh, he's adorable. He's my favorite.' Red seems to have brought with him some new Cyan to hunt us down in any and all ways they can. around collecting items required for our escape, days, we're only having to survive for a couple later, we escape the facility on the Park's roller the end, and the chapter closes with the promise us busy looking around for bags of sugar and light thing to collect: the lore. Is there lore? Looking But this time it's not there. Or, at least it's Friends after chapter 2, is so much more than just colored characters. To solve this one, we're Roblox games connected by a shadowy organization Blood. And that my friends, is our journey for that everyone has when they first boot up chapter playthrough. I just couldn't shake the fact that works. I'm not gonna skip this. I'm not gonna oh man. Oh, that was a severe head trauma right Whoa, how did I get up here? Who even are you? ourselves, this guy is sus. We start the game and then we go yeah that seems like a totally blindly do everything he asks. Not a great plan. that he simultaneously knows more about Oddworld he's trying to break in, which shows that he's Guy. Or spy on the experiments that are going on. with the fact that the Rainbow Friends are now Blue running around, he knows that it's suddenly coming here was a mistake. He also knows about the lured away with cake. Or how you can escape from Insider knowledge. He's not just familiar with workings and mechanics. On the other hand though, his decision to break in. Oh no, coming here was and fast. Literally the way we came. You were could probably get out of there. So he wanted creatures are dangerous but wasn't aware that repeatedly lies to us as evidenced by him tasking then be surprised that we were able to find an an SOS light? I mean wow, you guys must be good let's take a look at his design. A leather jacket. the perfect match for one of the two characters co-founder of the Rainbow Friends. It seems like a two guys match. Except long time theorists will In my previous Theory I said that Oswald turned characters existing simultaneously. So what's as that. Red isn't Trenton. See I can admit when the Rainbow Friends Family for something, but from the first two chapters. First things first, the picture from chapter 1. And that's because the 1972. You see before entering Oddworld at the to the side of the fence in the lobby area and generator is one nine seven two. All it does is block on it, but that right there is telling us likely acting as the start to the Rainbow Funtime we've seen with other indie horror franchises, the kid's franchises. And, they're not just making up huge time for the types of kids programming that was the era of Mr Rogers, The Electric Company, but you had these big casts of characters with mesh together all that well. Random animals and was the early days for this sort of programming of what worked, just like the assemblage of yellow dino, green monster, blue person, orange roughly coincides with a similar sort of kid's Rainbow. Which also was popular all throughout I'm starving. Zippy, you always want people There's even an episode of Rainbow named Friends. coincidence than anything. After watching a few that much connecting the two. I just thought Oswald started the series in 1972, what happened? rivalry between the two of these characters. In a see a white board with various messages smudged garage code. Now the Animal Control line is likely escaped. Throughout chapter 1 we saw that the of time, forced to live in stables under the to be showered. They were treated like animals, happen to be hungry seems to make a lot of sense. that says change garage code. You'll notice that a crown, an obvious reference to the character of figure next to it that's been erased. It seems over. Take the crown for themselves, and quite struggle between the two is also reflected in the all the other calendars you find throughout the trip, a reference to our school bus first arriving 1st on this calendar falls on a Friday, you can year the game is meant to be taken place: 1994, 2022 mark. June 30th 2022 is when Rainbow Friends July 1st, being circled followed by the words and canon. Anyway, that tells us that it's been in 1991. But this calendar actually gives us a lot more dates highlighted: July 4th for fireworks, show. These highlighted dates, I believe not but also gives us an idea of what Red is aiming the course of five nights. That means that our why there are leftover fireworks for Red to use challenge. However clearly there is someone else date is scratched off using blue, including date that has not happened yet. Technically that's those dates is a note saying move to August for in blue is trying to stop or slow down Red's plan. Chapter 1 with this random line on a wall written have ourselves two named characters in this especially with Trenton obviously being the old during the next chapter, process of elimination must be Red. The park is named after him. He's the proper garage code as we see from the opening have themselves a backstory considering Red has chooses not to, instead just using the fireworks our old man, must be the one in blue breaking into reclaim the crown for himself, erasing Red from too far. Here's what I think happened, the two in its early days, but then something started to more characters. Make them more realistic. And chase sequence, we run past robotic versions Old animatronic versions of Blue, Orange, Green they weren't good enough for Red. They weren't the actual Rainbow FunTime Friends which came out ousted from the company for being resistant to 2022 where I suspect that Red is now using the them. The chapter's final sequence we run past which we know are living creatures, floating past up to something... trying to make everyone into partner. But now that partner is back. Trenton partner, make him stop the mad power trip that mean that Trenton's that good of a guy. You see this... and that's the Easter egg that led me first place. See when you look through the glass changes from a cool guy in a leather jacket with a purple ribbon. Clearly Trenton is hiding guy. But who, or what, is he? Well, I think this Rainbow Friends. One thing that I didn't notice Oswald's final login dates have a company name on right? Well yeah, but it's also so much more. Two FantasticFile_3903 and Rockmage_1234. both pointed Roblox game entitled, The Little Ones, produced for Rainbow Friends. In fact, a cover image for it updated to? Nothing. At least as far as I can I suspect that it was just to draw attention back the monitors. So how is Little Ones connected to far as I can tell right now. It's a game where one escape a warehouse populated with dozens of little keypad that was used in Rainbow Friends has but I don't think that's too much to go off Unfortunately, the only connection between the two while connections to Rainbow Friends aren't another game that's worth calling out. It's the friend is bit by a spider and transforms into a friends. This game was made by Rainbow Friends's it's interesting is that there are pictures of the a series of labeled VHS tapes, one clearly marked Friends? Well because of this. Spider has one pass odds that you can become the spider in the main center on that spider pass? A businessman with the exact face that's hiding inside of Trenton's be a series of Easter egg connections from two it could. But those have already happened in other you can actually go out and around this building these games, Little Ones and Spider. That right see these explicit references and connections in something a little bit more. Like maybe Trenton spider in disguise, or some nefarious businessman bringing terror and dread to all these different have a solid answer. The tapes and lost ones are of these three games are linked together. Trenton tiny mutants, or large pillowy mascots through water supply. Speaking of, at the end of the come with you? Despite his insistence that you he stays behind. His work there isn't done yet. There are multiple exit points as you safely go tell you to get off at any of those. He explicitly exit. Something tells me that the elevator to the where we expect. We're not done yet. And in only true friend that we have... is ourself. But trying to turn everyone into mutant monsters to that pretty easily yourself with today's sponsor securing your money with an all-in-one finance your cash so you know that you're handling it price of everything from games, to food, to the and your colleagues into brightly colored blob to help you stay smart about every last cent. So I do appreciate a good theme park. And now that the attractions, I want to take him on a tour of you've ever gone to one of these places recently. I'm not just talking about the price of admission ticket prices that fluctuate based on how busy guys. These places have basically figured out ways which means that you have to figure out ways to Thankfully. SoFi makes that easy. With SoFi, you That is 11 times the national savings rate SoFi savings account is earning more in just five big bank. SoFi checkings and savings also has no getting you paid up to two days early, and will you sign up for direct deposit. That right there to afford. Who knows, you might even be able to it all is that SoFi and I are teaming up to give to enter for that chance of 10 grand is sign up using the link down in the description. Or, just Please make sure that you're either using the link are the only ways to enter our specific giveaway. today's episode. And as always, remember, it's all