Come on! I have every intention of my three months probationary and of joining it fully and properly at the end of that time. There is, unhappily, a little matter I should perhaps share with you. Oh, what's that? I have no intention my three months probationary period. There is a ship which sails for england in exactly three months. I intend to be on it. Sho-hut! Right, atten-hut! Present arms! It's exactly how I How very uplifting for you. But then I didn't expect But I do, my dear fellow. You forget, this place has We want to get cleaned up and present ourselves to the adjutant. If we can find him. Or indeed anyone. You don't suppose there's Millington, while I tolerated your imbecilities on our journey together, they won't be appreciated here. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon. You must be pradah Singh. And you, sir, Mr. Drake. If I may say you look under whom I had the honor to serve. Thank you. I had the honor to serve also under your father, general millington, though I was, of course, Yes, I understand your father served with the regiment, pradah Singh. And my grandfather served. In my family, it is the tradition. Pradah Singh, where is everybody? On the prairie ground, sir. It's the anniversary of Of course, well, They should be back within the hour. I'm instructed that by that time you should be in attendance here, The colonel will then I hear correctly, ladies? Ladies? Yes, sir. For god's sake, man! Gentlemen, officers and men of the 20th Indian light cavalry, today we commemorate, the award of the Victoria cross to captain John Scarlett, for his outstanding bravery. On this, it is once again my duty and privilege to present the cross to Mrs. Scarlett. Colonel, this medal to you for safekeeping which commemorate the honorable Where the devil are they, pradah Singh? Just coming now, sahib. 2nd lieutenants millington and Drake. May I present the senior subaltern, Gentlemen, welcome. Pradah Singh, could you fetch we have just a few moments to spare. Sahib. Oh, my dear fellow, um, just anything. I'm about to expire. My companion is joking, of course. We are fully aware of Oh, good, splendid, well done. Thank you, pradah Singh. They're damn silly, these little tests. But one must be certain. You must be millington. No, Drake. I have that dubious honor, Oh, I'm sorry. Well, sit down, chaps. There's a lot to tell you and Oh, we are allowed to sit? Yes, of course, why not? Don't pay any attention. I thought it might be another Mr. millington has a very Oh, I see, very funny. You're sitting in the colonel's chair, Oh my heavens! I wouldn't want to add Now then, to watch over you chaps Make sure you know Let me remind you of You don't speak to anyone, nor will anyone speak to you, It's my job to speak to you but never to a senior officer, unless addressed first. In which case, you reply, &quot;yes, sir&quot;. Now, in which case, We always call the colonel colonel in this regiment. Quite. Eminently sound arrangement, Good, now, when the colonel arrives, we shall withdraw to a corner, At an appropriate time, announce strangers in the mess and introduce each of you individually. No one will pay the least attention, except the colonel, who will say, thank you, Mr. fothergill... You will say nothing. We shall then wait for when you will present yourselves and we shall withdraw to your quarters. Parade, section right, quick right! And now, as for the ladies, they will be in the colonel's I think, only madame strang has help, And, um, Mrs. Scarlett. Yes, yes, I think I should perhaps say a word or two about Mrs. Scarlett. She is a lady, very much admired Her husband was awarded the She is a regular feature However, she is not above Now, don't misunderstand me! She is very much a lady, but. Yes, of course. Most distressing. My point is that junior officers are well advised to She is a very attractive woman. However, You understand me? Made a point with Mrs. Scarlett? Oh, I see. of which, you know nothing. Just remain courteous, but, uh... Distant? What is this filthy old Mr. millington! That was captain's Scarlett tunic. He was wearing it when he was cut down. It must have been a very messy event. Warfare is not noted for its comfort! Nor is the future of young officers who fail to acquaint themselves with the history and Still, when you come to think of it, it must smell absolutely frightful. How is young truly getting around, Not too bad, I think, colonel. Damned idiot! in a day or two. again soon anyway. Colonel, May I present Mr. millington Thank you, Mr. fothergill. Surely that can't be He looks far too young. With respect, madam, I hardly believe you could You also look far too young. Well, Mr. fothergill. I'm sorry, sir. Sorry, I did not here that, I must have failed to make my instructions plain, captain Harper. Mr. fothergill, of the duties of your office. That is why you hold it. I am waiting, Mr. fothergill. Present yourselves, men! I have the honor to present myself, Mr. Drake, sir. Thank you, Mr. Drake. I also have the honor to present myself, Do you lack a name, sir? Millington, sir. Ah, come here, Mr. millington. Sir. if I ever hear from you again, it will be for the last time. Do you understand me? May I be I allowed to say... You may be allowed to say nothing! You may be silent! Is that clear? Return to your place. Mr. fothergill, if you find that your duties are too arduous for you, I'm sure we can find a way to have you relieved of them, understood? Sir. You bloody fool! What the hell were you playing at? My dear fellow, I'm... I told you to remain silent while there were senior I certainly didn't mean to get... I don't know what your game is, but let me tell you this. If you put up one I'll make sure you're before you even finish probation. Do you hear me? Mr. fothergill! Now go to your quarters, move! Charge! Mind that leg of yours, young truly. I will, colonel. Few weeks now, Not with millington, major. Ought we get rid of him, sir? Well, it's not easy. Son of a general, Well done, lad! We see intellection are very difficult. Quite right understand, sir. Seems to drink rather at dinner, Yes, sir, but strictly speaking, there's no ruling against that, sir. As long as he can hold it. Hmm, well, if he does, I would do it, I'd wheel him out of the mess as quickly and quietly as you can, hmm? Right, sir. Well run! For a first round, the boy seems to be What do you say, Lionel? Remember Toby's first round, Lionel? Regimental history, colonel. It was three years ago, wasn't it? Yes, this was his first posting, Yes, that was the end of it for him. And for me, in a way. You only had that one boy, didn't you? Yes, still, one accepts. But one plans, you know? Toby was to carry on the line, It's still something I can't... = pig, pig, pig! = pig, pig! Points, point. Pig! Well done, Alastair. Well done, sir. Good run. Come on, I need a drink. By special request of Mrs. foster, we have a ladies excuse me waltz. That's there, colonel. Well, in the bathing machine laundry, they're too young to hear it. Nonsense, a little vulgarity never did anyone any harm. Well, it is a damn funny yarn, sir. Oh, you're an outrageous woman. Come and dance with me. And stop corrupting my junior officers. I'm open to corruption at any time, Anything to report, Mr. hart? No, sir. let's visit the guard room. Mrs. Scarlett. You really shouldn't drink so much, No, ma'am, no, I shouldn't. You are acquiring quite Does that concern you? Personally, not at all. I think I could enjoy being Don't be tiresome, Mr. millington. Why aren't you dancing? There are so many young would be glad of your company. Pretty girls some of them. It's pleasing to hear beauty pay tribute to mere prettiness. Mr. millington, one compliment too many in public. That's why I'm taking care tonight to pay my compliments in private. You will pay me no more No, don't go, please. Did you know that when two swans mate they mate for life? So I've read. I must say I find it rather sad. Why? to die before the other. Is that why you drink then? For the lost swan? No, madam. Don't concern yourself about it, How old are you? Does it matter? You have all life... All life before me, as they say. You come to us laden with advantages, To you it seems I come with none. Am I quite out of favor? Good night, Mr. millington. Refer to yourself in your good voice. Alastair? What are you doing here? Admiring the stars. And you? Mr. millington, go away. You will please go away? And if I don't please? For heaven's sake, be sensible! You seem to think yourself quite a ladies' man, mr millington. My reputation travels before me. I should like to think we had something in common, Mrs. Scarlett. It is a great mistake to I was looking for the And my impression of you, madam, is, that you are a woman. You are behaving stupidly towards me. I shall call out. You tempt me, you tempt me indeed. May I fetch anything for you, colonel? No, no, pradah Singh. I am in need of a new pair of legs. I shall endeavor to see that you are not disturbed, colonel. Colonel, dear, I thought you were feeling a little tired. Oh, I'm fine. don't get up. forgive me, my dear. What's the time? We should be able to leave soon. I feel we've said good Yes, but the usual late-stayers. Marjorie, of course, and the hopwoods. And that colonel in the lancers. Foster, peregrine foster. And his wife. It's been a lovely ball. Has it, ma'am? It's something one feels one owes to the past. Colonel dear, What? with bounding young men I should so much like to dance Oh, dear. Must I? Very well. Help me! It's Marjorie! My dear, what happened? Please, help! For god's sake, Brandy. Drake, fetch the doctor, quickly. Marge! What the hell happened? Let's get her to the mess. What's happening now? She's been attacked, come with me. Alastair. It's all right. Give me the Brandy, please. Let me through, please, gentlemen. How did this happen, ma'am? She's been attacked, doctor. Let me see, my dear. Is that true? You were attacked? Yes. Marjorie, someone attacked you. You must tell us who he was. Him! It was him! My god, you wretched! Major roach, Colonel, captain Harper, detail two officers as close escort. Sir, Mr. hart, Mr. fothergill! I don't agree with you. To hush this matter up to protect the honor of the It must be by general court-martial, it must be by due The due process of military law yes, It's secret and convenient. And justice of a kind can, but is not justice that Colonel, A public trial, or a private trial. With its private consequences. On your feet. Morning gentlemen. Be seated, please. Gentlemen, last night there if dealt it were with, could profoundly affect Fortunately however, a procedure exists which makes it possible to be kept strictly within the confines of That is why you are here. When Mrs. Scarlett has recovered, Mr. millington, I shall now explain to Subaltern's court A president, in this case myself, Also, a prosecuting officer You will understand, gentlemen, that a subaltern's court-martial It is outside of the normal structure of discipline and command. Should a senior officer he would be obliged to end it. Make no mistake, are summary and absolute. There is no appeal to higher authority. Do I make myself clear? Yes, sir. In addition to civilian personnel, officers of any rank as and when they are required. But, should a senior officer be called, his appearance in court will in no way affect his official which of course do not exist. Is that understood? I don't think you'll find this amusing for long, Mr. millington. No, sir. Is my duty as president of this court to decide on its composition. Before I do so, your defending officer How very nice. And you mean now? Now. I don't suppose I can No, perhaps not. Well, in that case, I choose Mr. Drake. He is a gentleman of honor. Very well, Mr. Drake will defend, the prosecuting officer Who else? of the court, will be Mr. hart, Mr. truly, Sahib. Mr. Drake? obliged to accept this duty? Mr. millington has chosen you, Yes, sir. You will now return to duty, gentlemen. Mr. Drake, you will remain here. Mr. millington, you will wait outside under escort, Mr. hutton. Sahib. to quarters until the trial begins, I appreciate that you have been under something of a disadvantage since you arrived here, Mr. Drake. And that fate is determined to keep you linked with Mr. millington, It's just that I'm anxious Of course, nonetheless, it is necessary that Mr. millington be defended. But I hardly think you need It's very much an open and shut case, But, it's still my duty to defend Mr. millington as well as I'm able to. Naturally, to say in his favor. I mean, it's a matter of honor, The honor of the regiment demands that Mr. millington It is necessary to go through You are not a fool. You know what is required of you. To be fair, sir. To be fair to the regiment. Good, excellent, carry on, Mr. Drake. Mr. hart. Mr president, reads as follows, the accused officer, he did attack, wound and widow of the late captain vc, of this regiment. That by this action, reposed to him by his colonel, brought the name of this and conducted himself in a manner unbecoming of an The charge ends, Mr. president. Thank you, Mr. hart. How do you plead, Mr. millington? Guilty or not guilty? The accused officer pleads not guilty, Er, Mr. president. Not guilty, Mr. Drake? Well, um, yes, Mr. president. I see, very well. Mr. fothergill. I call my first witness, Mr. hutton. Doctor. If you please, sir. Be seated, doctor, please. I'm obliged to remind you, sir, that you are on your Of course. Doctor, on the night of the 17th, Mrs. Scarlett claimed You attended her. In your opinion, Most certainly, it was a gross, And did she suggest who might have been responsible? She made a direct accusation. - Against whom, sir? And were Mrs. Scarlett injuries such as to sustain this accusation? Well, injuries are not in themselves evidence as to the However, Mrs. Scarlett has I asked her again to be certain in my own when no longer in a state of hysteria. I believe you examined Mr. millington and that you found a gash I did, yes. how he sustained this injury? He said that Mrs. Struck him when, sir? I gather during the Are you saying then that Mr. millington admitted to you that he I suppose by now he has to anyone that has asked him. Thank you, doctor. Mr. Drake? Mr. president, gentlemen of the court. Doctor, the, what exactly did they amount to? Well, the palms of the hands were skinned. And her legs down there. Her knees were bruised. She had cuts about the body. And her dress was torn. Could these injuries in running through that surround the folly? Yes, I think they could have been. Doctor, had, had Mrs. Scarlett been in any another sense interfered with? You mean, sexually? Mr. Drake, Mr. millington is not charged with rape, but with assault. Yes, but... The court does not require an answer to that question, doctor. Well, then, doctor, that this attack was, relatively speaking, a failure? It wasn't a failure, Mr. Drake, Apart from her physical injuries, Mrs. Scarlett was in a state of terror bordering on acute hysteria. Quite so, precisely. Yes, sir, but, um, well, I'm not clear. I'm not clear exactly why Are you serious, Mr. Drake? I mean, Mr. millington was Mr. Drake, this court will not find drunkenness as a mitigation of any act on the part of Mr. millington. But surely, sir, No, the responsibility for drinking to excess remains his alone. I'd drop it, if I were you. The cards are stacked against you. Mr. millington, you will be silent! Mr. Drake, have you any further questions for this witness? Well, Mr. Drake? Yes, I, I have. Doctor, would you not expect that a woman of Mrs. Scarlett's experience would be easily Mr. Drake, but to judge Mr. millington. But surely, Mr. president, No, Mr. Drake, it is not relevant. But on the very day we arrived here, Mr. fothergill warned that Mrs. Scarlett certain officers to... concern to this court may or may not have said to So far as this court is concerned, Mrs. Scarlett is a woman of the highest character Do you understand me? But, sir, Mr. president. How am I to defend this officer if you'll allow me no You are entitled to as president of this court, Drake, for god's sake, sit down. You're embarrassing us all. He has no idea what is required of him, Should have made your That is enough! They expect you to go through Not to indulge in a talent What a bourgeois creature you are, Well, Mr. Drake. I have, uh, - Thank you, doctor. Fothergill? would be to call Mrs. Scarlett, sir. But I would hope the defending officer would accept a written I quite agree. Mr. Drake? I'm not sure, sir. Well, I must have time to think. Very well. The court will reconvene Thank you, gentlemen. You will leave the mess Mr. millington, Mr. Drake, you will remain here, Now, Drake, what the devil do I was just trying to do my duty, sir. To ensure Mr. millington Do you mean to suggest that he will not receive a fair trial? But, surely, sir, There is some doubt in No, sir, none whatever. Tomorrow, as clearly he wishes you to. As for yourself, we shall see how you conduct yourself You've made an excellent beginning here, I should not like to think we have been mistaken in you, too. Here is Mrs. Scarlett's deposition. You will be requiring it, since you will not be calling her. That is all, Mr. Drake. Captain Harper. Well? isn't Mr. millington Are you being willfully obstructive? Do you appreciate to what extent we are already indebted Do you realize, that had she made an official charge against him, Mr. millington would now be by officers not of this regiment. And so should we. But, sir, is his disgrace Why, Mr. Drake? Well, if he is found guilty, you will surely be I do not think so. Mr. millington will find that Of an unpleasant nature, to be sure, but admirably suited to his character. You mean to keep him here? For a year or two. Five perhaps, or even 10 or more. The option lies with us. We will see how long to learn a simple lesson. That this regiment is not to be mocked. I see. for Mr. millington and do you understand? Sir, No, Mr. Drake. You have an admirable opportunity of serving this regiment. I shall follow your progress Good night. Sahib, sahib! Ask about Mrs. bandanai, sahib. Ask about the bleeding. Who? Hey! No, wait! I'm sorry, sahib, But who was that? The servant of mame Scarlett, sir. Mrs. Scarlett? I should take the No, no, no, pradah Singh, who is Mrs. bandanai? She is the widow of jemadar bandanai. He was a hero of this regiment. He died with captain Scarlett. Could you arrange for It's not usual, sahib. It might be of assistance You know that he is in trouble. His trial continues tomorrow night. You greatly admired his father. I'll see what I can do, sahib. Thank you, pradah Singh. Ah, my knight in shining armor! I have news for you, my learned friend. The battle is over. I'm changing my plea to guilty. Well? confident, aren't you? You won't. You won't get out of here, you know? No? Or perhaps five, or even 10 or more. Until then, What are you talking about? I'm quoting the adjutant. My dear fellow, they intend to keep you here, I don't believe you. They have duties for you, You are to be taught a lesson. You are to learn that this My god, I never thought of that. Nor did I! Come in now, please. Court is now in session, Mr. president, as you already know, this afternoon Mr. Drake informed me that he would not accept I had obtained from Mrs. Scarlett, but insisted that she should I therefore propose to call her now. Very well. sir, I would prefer that Mrs. No, Mr. Drake, very well, you shall, now. With respect, Mr. president, if you will permit me to Certainly not, Mr. Drake. Again, with respect, sir, I am entitled, as laid down by you, before the members of this court, to call any witness Very well, whom do you wish to call? The second in command, sir. Is major roach aware of this? He is waiting in the lobby, sir. Mr. hutton! Drake, what are you up to? If you please, sir. Sir! Please be seated. I Mr. Drake. You sent for me this evening, sir. You felt I should know that you had witnessed the attack on Mrs. Scarlett by Mr. millington. - I did, yes. Well, I'd been on duty with Mr. hart, inspecting the guard room. And I was on my way, alone, through the gardens, I was nearing the folly coming from it, a man and a woman. The man seemed to be, well, he seemed to be pleading. Then I recognized it was sharp and clear. She said, &quot;Mr. millington, &quot;that your advances are Or words to that effect. Did she sound angry, sir? Oh, yes, she did, And frightened? she was fully in command not frightened, but angry. And what happened then, sir? Well, followed by Mr. millington. You saw them clearly, sir? Yes, in a patch of light There were more lights than Yes, sir, and then? Well, Ordered him to leave her alone and walked angrily toward the mess. She walked, sir? She didn't run? Was she distressed? Mr. Drake, I've told you, Yes, sir, and Mr. millington? Well, I don't really know. I lost sight of both I thought he just made off, but, uh, you say he claimed she laid him up. It's possible, of course, Quite so, sir, and then? Well, you know the rest. There was a great consternation, everybody running, myself included. When I got to the, uh, when I got to the mess and Yes? Well, I, I was greatly surprised. Mrs. Scarlett was in a terrible state. Much worse than I would've imagined. Why do you say that, sir? Well, there's, uh, there's no excuse for Mr. millington's behavior, But I saw nothing violent or extreme. Otherwise I would've put an end to it. Thank you, sir. Thank you, major roach. We are most obliged to you It was my duty. Though I'm bound to say I consider the regiment ill-served by unauthorized Good night, gentlemen. Well, Mr. Drake, it seems to me that your defense witness, major roach, has given us a detailed account of precisely of the offense with which Mr. millington is charged. Perhaps I should remind you that you are here to not to prosecute him. Thank you, Mr. president. In the nature of this trial it's well to be reminded Mmm, quite. Are you now willing for Mrs. Scarlett to be called? Mr. hutton! If you please, ma'am. Ma'am. You will appreciate, ma'am, that this disturbance to I'm not at all disturbed, thank you. Ma'am. Mr. fothergill? I should like to ask you Were you attacked on I was, yes. By Mr. millington. You have no doubt about that? Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Drake? The folly where the attack took place, it's a very isolated spot. I was wondering, ma'am, how you happened to be there. There are moments, Mr. Drake, even on the most enjoyable occasions, when one wishes to be alone. It is so, ma'am. And it was here that Mr. It was, yes. Did you, No, at first I didn't realize how determined he was. Forgive me, madam, but, you are an extremely attractive woman, no longer married. You must have had to deal with silly young gentlemen before this. Not young men who were viciously drunk, Viciously drunk, ma'am? Mr. millington made it to use me as a means of getting himself dismissed from this regiment. I see, so, uh, I was, yes. What with? my arms, whatever came to hand. And did anything come to hand? I don't understand you. Well, did you pick up a stone, perhaps? No, I don't think so. Or a branch from a tree? If you please, ma'am, I think Mr. Drake is referring to... A deep gash, some teo inches long, Oh, yes, yes, of course. I do remember now. It was a stone, I picked up a stone. I don't think so, ma'am. I searched the area around the folly for an hour this evening, and there was not a stone to be found for 100 yards in any direction. It may have been wood, a branch. No, ma'am, Nothing with which you could possibly have struck Mr. millington. Really, this is quite absurd, It is indeed, ma'am. Mr. Drake, it is perfectly obvious that when Mrs. Scarlett broke he fell against a tree or a wall. No, I didn't! I was hit! Of course, if you wish to Certainly not, ma'am. Mr. Drake, this has gone far enough. I'm sorry, sir, I was mistaken. Misunderstanding, ma'am. I see now what must have happened. You, you broke away from Mr. millington and he fell back against and then you ran Yes! Well, naturally. In his evidence, Major roach? Yes, ma'am, major roach appeared in court a few moments ago. It seems he witnessed Oh, I see. In his testimony, major roach has said that you walked away from Yes, well, then, perhaps I did walk. Walk or ran, Really, you are splitting hairs. Yes, Mr. president. Well, let's say then at, and then you ran. Well, uh, perhaps you were afraid that Mr. millington I was, yes! violently in the first place. What exactly did he do to you, ma'am? Well. Yes. Yes. Did he try to put his Mr. Drake! - He may have done that. I can't remember... But you must remember. This was a terrifying experience You ran screaming all What are you implying? That is all, Mr. Drake. I have one more question Sit down, Mr. Drake. Mrs. Scarlett, why are you lying? How dare you? How dare you! Ma'am, if you will allow me. I'll tolerate no more of this, In future, you can play your This court will reconvene and this entire matter Court is adjourned. Good night, gentlemen. You have finished yourself here, Do you hear me? You're finished! in this court is typical of then I would not wish to remain. And I thought this was So it is, my dear fellow. A regiment of the highest honor. As you yourself have made plain to me. What's going on, Arthur? Why should she lie? Don't know. Look here, Arthur, you really will have to It isn't too late, you know? I fancy I can survive without sympathy, Yours, least of all. You disappoint me. Well, is it just pride, then? Wounded pride? Why not, bougeois principle. But that's, of course, Well, that's true. Pradah Singh! Your pardon, Drake, sahib. I saw you come here, Why? You asked to speak with Mrs. bandanai, she's here. Please, won't you come and sit down? There is a young officer in trouble. I want to help him. But without you, I can't. Ask her if she was attacked, sahib. Were you attacked? As Mrs. Scarlett was attacked? It is true, sahib. When? Six months, who attacked you? She will not tell you, sahib. Well, what happened then? I was with an officer. I had been with him, laid with him. He had left the bungalow, I was alone. Then came another man. A man in Scarlet and gold, He threatened me. He forced me to crawl around I had to make noises like a pig! It is the game. It is the game, Sticking the pig with a sword, from behind as it runs. It's not possible. It is the game, sahib, I'm certain. But who could do such a thing? Ask her, pradah Singh, who was it? She cannot tell you, sahib. She dare not, Please, Mrs. bandanai, Scarlett. What? What did she say? That the man was captain Scarlett. But, but, that can't be, He was killed. Well, then, what did she men, She meant what she said, sahib. That the man you look That ought to give you Hmm, thank you. If you want to speak to me, Mr. Drake, You're at Liberty to do so. Thank you, sir. It's just that I was looking Yes? of the story of the 75 revolt, but I would be most the end of it, sir, at first hand. Why, Mr. Drake? Sit down, sit down. Under the circumstances, Thank you, sir. You found captain Scarlett's body? And Toby strang. Yes. It was not a particularly The tribesmen in that area But captain Scarlett was recognizable, There was the uniform. The captain in this regiment. It could have been no one else. You saw that it was him? Yes, I saw him. But perhaps the mutilation was such that you couldn't actually swear that it was captain Scarlett. But as I say, No, I suppose not. And the colonel's son? He died two weeks later. Terrible for the colonel. Yes, it took his hard. He blamed himself for that particular patrol. Well. I must leave you to your game. Well, tonight's the end of it, do you think? Arthur? I've been thinking. I now know that you are not guilty. What? but you're not vicious. No. I want you to trust me. Tonight's proceedings but whatever happens, This trial, you're destroying yourself here for no reason. You needn't concern yourself with me. I do, You're mistaken, and nor do I want to. Court is now in session. Mr. fothergill? I have written depositions, from the colonel, major wimbourne, colonel foster of the If Mr. Drake will accept them, the case for the Mr. Drake? Thank you. Mr. Drake, do you still wish to recall the doctor and Mrs. Scarlett? I do, sir. Very well, Mr. hutton! If you please, sahib. I'm sorry we have to recall you, So am I, but never mind. Doctor, two nights ago I questioned you concerning Mrs. Scarlett's injuries. You did, yes. Why did you not tell us with a sword? What are you saying, Mr. Drake? Mr. president, I'm prepared to back every statement I make tonight, however unpleasant, - But I haven't got a sword! Continue, Mr. Drake. Doctor, I believe that six months ago, you had occasion to examine - That's so, yes. Yes. But what is this to do with? She'd been attacked with a sword, It's possible, but... Doctor, the game played on mess nights, yes? on wheels. What is the object of this game? Is it not to Pierce the animal Yes, it is, but... What part of the animal? I don't think it matters. That part which is naturally presented in flight, the hind quarters, I suppose so, yes. Doctor, where did this game originate? In the field? Presumably, yes, And is it the object in the field to Pierce the anus of a Of course not, Oh, I see, That is enough, Mr. Drake! No, sir, it is not enough. Doctor, in what part of her This is abominable! Are you suggesting that whoever it was- I'm suggesting what, That six months ago somebody with Mrs. bandanai in the role of pig. That is a most horrible idea. Oh, yes, it is! But were not her injuries The court requires an answer Her injuries were consistent, yes. On the night that Mrs. I believe that you examined her, I did, yes, but there can be no connection between the two cases. None, doctor? This, this is the dress worn I got it from her servant But, fortunately, she thought it to be too valuable and kept it. Doctor, doctor, these blood stains, do they coincide with Approximately, yes. Well, on the thigh. High up on the thigh? On the thigh, Mr. Drake. Here, doctor, It looks like a tear. The cut made by the point of a sword? Let me see that dress, Mr. Drake. I believe Mr. Drake is right, doctor. That's a cut, not a tear. It could well have Thank you, sir. In which case, doctor, do not Mrs. bandanai's and suggest that they were both attacked in the same manner by the same man? Yes, yes, Yet, Mrs. bandanai was Yes. Mr. millington was in england. You agree, doctor? So if both attacks were that man could not have I suppose not, but Mrs. Scarlett! Mrs. Scarlett accused Mr. Millington, And having examined her, you still accepted her statement? Without question? Of course I did! Yes. What is your theory, My belief, sir, is that Mrs. First by Mr. millington, can be called an attack. And secondly, by another man, having first used the hilt of it to knock Mr. millington unconscious. And who was this man? When Mrs. bandanai was attacked, she was taken to hospital? Yes. An officer of this regiment? You must answer, doctor. No, captain Harper, to go far beyond its I refuse to answer any more questions. I am afraid, Mr. Drake, I know your intentions are honorable, Mr. president, before you take any action to stop these proceedings, I beg you to allow me to because then I believe I can Captain Harper. And you, Mr. Drake, come with me. This court is now adjourned. That way, gentlemen. Mr. Drake, this regiment has a history stretching far back in the past. A history of honor and integrity. Yet the doctor tells me foul in its implications, which is a gross and to every officer in it. I have said nothing, colonel, that I cannot prove to be true. You cannot prove an impossibility. No officer in this regiment is capable of what you suggest. With your permission, colonel. Yes. in honor say other than to be right in this affair. I'm convinced that Mrs. Scarlett As Mrs. bandanai had been attacked. Mrs. bandanai? You didn't know about Mrs. bandanai? Mr. Drake. if you've already been lied to... I have not been lied to. We do not lie to one Gentlemen do not question You are suggesting that I You are prepared to stake your honor and your future with I have no other means of And you, captain Harper, are you willing to stake 12 Yes, colonel, I am. Very well, If you fail, you will not expect either of you to remain with this regiment, We have hurt a man I trust you are aware Yes, sir, I am. Thank you for supporting me. It is necessary, at whatever cost, to support the honor of the regiment. Good night, Mr. Drake. I've been called again. What do you intend to do? I'm afraid. My dear girl, no one knows anything, no one's going to know anything. Just keep silent. But if things go wrong? You know very well, they'll take India away from you. Where could I go, england? There's no one, Mrs. Scarlett, I have only one purpose in mind, to reach the truth. Do you believe that? Thank you, ma'am. You recognize this, of course. On an examination of this dress, the court has accepted as Mrs. bandanai was attacked, And not by Mr. millington. He had no sword. That is true, is it not? Yes, it's true. I must ask you, ma'am, if indeed did Mr. in any serious sense at all? No, not at all, Mr. Drake. He has not the violence in him. He didn't assault or? He begged me to cry out. He begged me to accuse him. He could not bring himself to harm me. Then you withdraw the charge against him? And make no complaint of any kind? Only of inherent gentleness. And gentleness is not a crime. If you think not, Mr. Drake, then you are in the wrong place. He is one of the few gentlemen I have ever met in this regiment. I must ask you now, ma'am, to give the court a true He came out of the darkness, suddenly. I tried to get away, but I fell. His sword! He laughed, as he cut me! I was crawling, trying to get away! He ran around me, cut me again! And all the time, he was saying, oh, no, he was saying! He was saying what? Pig! Pig! Pig, pig, pig! Who, who was it, ma'am? Who was it? Oh! you accused Mr. millington? Because you recognized you attacker, and knew you could never accuse him. Mrs. Scarlett, was it not your husband? That's the truth of it, isn't it? That the man who attacked you was your husband, captain Scarlett. My husband is dead. Can you prove that? No, I can't prove it, no one can. Then how can you be sure it was not he that attacked you? Oh, don't be stupid, Mr. Drake! For the same reason that I Because I saw who it was! And once again, ma'am, I can't tell you that. Mrs. Scarlett, who are you protecting? I have nothing more to say. Madam, And I refuse to answer him. Don't you understand, Mr. Drake? It doesn't matter who it was. Which man it was. They are all the same! Stupid, cruel men who Colonel, don't you know what They are all John Scarlett! Every one of them! Mr. Drake, you will explain, Colonel, it is as I said. There is an officer in this regiment who attacks women with a sword. And I now believe that he dresses in that uniform. Captain Scarlett's, uniform. You are mistaken, sir. Why should anyone wish to If I might ask major wimbourne that question, colonel? He is waiting outside. Very well, call him. Mr. hutton. If you please, sir. And about bloody time, too! With respect, colonel. Sit there please, sir. Well? an attack was made upon Mrs. bandanai. You took her to hospital. What of it? I found her. I found her! What the devil does that matter? In your bungalow. Is that where you found her? What if I did? How did she happen to be there, sir? Well, now, how the hell should I know? Had you not invited her All right, I had. No crime in that. You found her, you said? I'd gone out to inspect the guard. I was duty officer, as I am tonight. And when you got back, you found that she had been attacked. And so you took her to the hospital? Yes. As you know, Mrs. Scarlett has now been attacked in the same way. I know that Mrs. Scarlett has By, uh, millington, here. In the same way, That has been established. Oh? I see. Who was it, then? I'm hoping, sir, Why me? very well. And you were a close I was. who has many of his qualities. A good soldier, a fine sportsman, a man who enjoys the company of women. Yeah, that could be me. What? Oh, for god's sake! You don't think I did it, do you? Why not, sir? Ah, if you want to know why not, you better examine your evidence, Which evidence, sir? When Marge, Mrs. Scarlett was attacked, I was dancing with Mrs. foster. Everyone saw me. I don't believe you. Ask him, ask fothergill. He took the depositions, Mr. fothergill? Yes, it's true, Mr. president. I saw major wimbourne myself. And both the doctor and Mrs. foster have sworn it in their depositions. Any more bright ideas, laddie? Oh, I know, you're thinking, if it wasn't wimbourne, who was it? Could have been major roach? He was some distance away, That's right, I saw him, running. Was it the doctor, then? He was with colonel foster. Yes, and I was with Mrs. foster. So you are right back where you started, You seem to have ran out of suspects, You know who it is, sir. If you don't help me, Then I must remember to stand with my back to the wall, mustn't I? Sir. Mr. Drake. I have duties to attend to! Yes, thank you, major. Colonel! I'm sorry, colonel. Sit down, please, Mr. Drake. Captain Harper, the charges against Mr. millington having been withdrawn, I invite you to conclude without delay. Gentlemen, as President of the court, I instruct you to find Not guilty. Not guilty. I also find him not guilty. Rise, please, Mr. millington. As you have been found innocent of the charges brought against you, you are now free to Colonel? Mr. millington, you have been unjustly treated by this regiment. You yourself have behaved I trust we may now see a new beginning. Yes, colonel. I welcome you into the regiment. Thank you, colonel. Gentlemen, this court is now dissolved. I must thank you, Arthur. You have nothing to thank me for. I have a bourgeois Good night, Arthur. See that I have a full report of this first thing in the morning. Thank you, Mr. fothergill. I'm sorry, colonel. No, Rupert, you have behaved With exemplary courage and fairness. You've done well. I only wish we had done less well. Good night, colonel. Colonel, I do take little pleasure in what I've done. You did what needed to be done. I have this morning received Do you wish me to accept it, I should like you to accept it. I'm sorry, colonel, put the honor of the Your honor and the regiment's They must be. Yes, I understand that, colonel. That's why I must go. Very well, I accept your resignation. With regret. Alastair. I couldn't tell you then. You would have been obliged The regiment would never What we've hidden has I want the matter ended now. Very well, leave it to me. It should be handled as a matter of honor. A matter of honor. It's not as you think, Ben. Oh, yes, I am the regiment. What I have allowed to It is well my time here is nearly done. You will not again No! Get all those lamps out. Quickly! Is there anything further, sahib? Don't come back. You've been very anxious to meet him, haven't you, Mr. Drake? Now you shall. What? When I turn down this lamp, Why? Because he always does. We talk together, But, sir, you can't... on telling us what we can and can't do! But you know nothing, nothing. You think all this is about honor. No, it's about comradeship. Friendship. If you'd witnessed the To see a man, a friend, his sex, ripped away, a man no longer. But, sir, the sword, the mess game. Why should Mrs. bandanai be singled out for They were unfaithful. In his mind, had made them pigs. And that's how we treat Now you will sit over there, Mr. Drake, in that chair, in the shadows. You may watch, Good evening! Oh, turn on the lamp, you silly bugger! I can't see what I'm doing! That's better. You won't be needing that You won't be going anywhere tonight. Why not, old boy? Haven't let the side down again, Yes, only I'm afraid I The regiment must be rid of you. What, old boy? Alastair. Lionel, look! I saw him, Alastair, oh, god. I saw him. I know. You were possessed by him. As though there were two. I am possessed by him. I am two. I tried. But when he takes over, I, I, I do know What I've done. It was me, oh, god. It was me. Lionel, too much damage has been done. I can no longer protect you. Do you understand me? I understand. Then I should tell the colonel that captain Scarlett is dead.