Alright, today is frontrunning only, and what a going backwards at the start. Uh, that used to be we're gonna watch-- We have the Purple Inkling and Black Yoshi. We're gonna see where they finish at track. This was a terrible track to start but I'm gonna try my best here to gain the biggest possible for everybody else to catch up. But the items they'll get because of the distance-based I feel like it makes bagging a little too strong frontrunning still works in this game, maybe not works in general. [laughs] Alright, oh, banana in is bad! Oh, I barely dodged that wall, that was-- so I'm probably gonna try to get hit on the boost that's even better, invincibility frames, okay, for me and helping me front run because this lucky happening to me. Oh, I was about to get and then the shock timing was even worse. I'm Actually gonna front run this thing, yes [laughs] to go! PAX with the 99997! This moment where I blue shell, it saved me from the Black Yoshi the thing is, if they had mushrooms, they were a Bullet Bill, they'd be like over here while I Mario Kart is a luck-based game. I don't expect run and don't get hit a single time except, I especially on a track like that where usually time I played on that track, Troy destroyed me by we have people with mushrooms right behind Oh, what the? I've never gone that far to the me? What a great bomb throw. Alright, well, I'm side, I have eight coins, but I'm in sixth place, get hit by everything, there's no point being in Okay, let's get this item, oh, uh more green shells, what? Okay, stay at Thank you for not having-- thank you for throwing Black Yoshi at the front, I need to take down PAX, oh, thanks for hitting the banana for me. this is so good. I'm, I'm like, this don't hit me! Okay, oh this is so scary, okay, I'd probably win, I'd probably win. Unless Where are you? Oh, [laughs] PAX are too good, you you were almost good enough, nice try. Wow, back race, I can't believe it. Oh, so now, um, I at the end is so fun, but again, I can't do Okay, so I'm gonna need to take good lines here, like, ignore coins a little bit and just that's more valuable than anything else right shell because of the way I threw the green shell are so scary, they can just back an item at Okay, why am I in first place right now. Why your red shell go? I'm so confused right now, with somebody. Yes, blue shell, thank you! Oh Okay, I'm, I'm keeping this-- they're I need to take weird lines, I don't, I can't Oh, bomb, nice, oh, I messed up, I have to use I should probably toss this right here, okay, more protection, nice. I can't believe it, got hit by a blue shell, despite trying to front what's going on today? Okay, we have Mute I'm using a high mini-turbo build, which is not really. You don't charge that many mini-turbos most people are not on builds that are that right behind me is like one speed point higher I'm pretty sure is a disadvantage on this track Okay, almost trailed them and I can't go for this the speed that I have. Okay, and this person saving this mushroom for next lap shortcut, and I takes a lead. Hopefully, he takes the blue shell I feel like I've gotten really lucky. Like, I've typically, like, first place is safer than than lot and that's why bagging is really good because let's do-- never mind. I was gonna do a Oh no. Okay. Okay, I had a whole thought process might have looked really, really stupid. It was for everything I did there. I didn't use the shell was. I didn't look at the mini-map, and so I did not want to happen. And now I'm just getting Okay, if I can get a bullet though, like, I'm that person used their bullet at the wrong spot. Oh no! If I got these items in the My mushroom just ran out. Oh, this was my mushrooms. [laughs] I'm getting last. in the back. I got 11th. All right, PAX, you win 20,000 players? You know? Like, you're, you're let's take tight lines, get to the front. Don't the most important thing is to be in first place. place is the safest spot to be. There we go. Oh spot to be, but if you're frontrunning, And we're gonna take all these shortcuts, What was that? I thought I got a trick. Like on whether or not you get a trick and like me because Nintendo lied in their patch Ugh [laughs] that was good. Okay, but I only messed up because of where they Single green shell. What? I didn't land in now. I'm just letting PAX get first place here. on this track either. Oh, what is this? I have up my shortcuts. You know what? I'm not taking Alright, there we go, there we go. Nice Okay, okay. Here we go. Here we go, get my coins up. Oh, boo? Let's just use it. Single item box. Oh no, it broke. I wanted the shortcut with inside drift, you Take that PAX. [laughs] I cannot believe I involved when you're front-running, like I and I feel like the first place was worse. All I usually don't like the frontrunning tracks quite know? Shortcat, I like the shortcuts, but um, this just trying to win here, okay? Let's get One of the nice things about front-running-- wait, Getting the Shortcat treatment. I've been are my worst enemy in this game. Taco Mountain, I just get destroyed every single time. So enough away from everybody else, what counts as a so by most items I mean like boomerang, fire I want to be able to stay away from those. And, that the only things that can hit me are, uh, better than being able to get hit by every single lot worse, where I am right now because, uh, it The person behind me could pull a boomerang right right here, okay, barely got away from it. You There's boost panels here and-- yes, there's a next up, take down PAX. So I have a red shell on but I want a different item right here. [Music] Triple mushrooms? Just use one of these, And I would like to get more red shells. These not good enough, not gonna cut it. blue shell, yes PAX, take all Oh, this is hilarious! See if your hmm, this is-- nooo, I was looking backwards, than PAX. All right, Sky-High Sundae, [laughs] I Let's get the items, I'm always so bad at track can be pretty okay for frontrunning because would have been done right there if I couldn't get not have been able to dodge that red shell. Okay, to throw their items, let's see, person behind me I'm saving this for defense. I could bomb and people can see this bomb, so they might try Got someone, yes! Trying to build this lead big the idea here. And wow, I'm already at 10 coins, this track, this is a really good front-running um, for a lead before you go for 10 points because take better lines, but you're not going to be able you need 10 coins at some point. Um, so, uh, the placements, there's not a single coin that which is not true on most tracks. On most tracks, like, almost everyone left after the last race, this room. So I don't even know, like, I think it's very unlikely. And I don't know what's the which might be why we haven't seen one yet, but away from everyone that if a red shell shows um, so I have time to, like, get my defense nice, nice, nice. Pretty much guaranteed win to everybody else then the red shells can come to dodge it. All right there PAX, still hanging with us? PAX is still on inside drift, okay, that I wouldn't doubt that PAX is probably better oh, we did a really good job what I could never do so um, I need to gain a lead with this went to the left for some reason, I'm not sure some coins here. Oh, boomerang, this spot. I just want to get a big lead. what makes first place so much worse on a track hard to ever gain a very, very big lead, because Um, not, not hit you, they can take a shortcut got him. Okay, it's just me and PAX again, That, that was my bad. I'm not blaming the Right, where should I toss this? stop this person from getting I have a red shell, PAX is way up. Nooo, I should didn't, I couldn't have known there would be a and it caused this to happen. So you shouldn't, if you're defenseless especially if you're going That was not really shortcuts. All right, but I have a chance. Okay, this is probably one of the best items, but this Okay, please, please, uh, this is okay, I Okay, [laughs] that was an incredibly frustrating what can you do? All right, I'm gonna have to because I have like no practice on this track and hit, so I'm bagging. [laughs] Oh, and I missed the I, I shouldn't have said that, I would have fine on autopilot. Okay, get the item, thank All right, I need to save this mushroom. This nobody hits me but okay, I have protection now I'm safer! Oh, okay, so the thing is, like, Do you think bagging is better or frontrunning I've, I've been bagging a lot. Okay, I just messed but it's not because I legitimately think bagging be doing. I just think there's a lot of tracks it's, it can be the safer play, honestly, a guarantees than frontrunning. With frontrunning, get comboed and then you can lose all your coins. the nature of frontrunning is that you don't have of guaranteed 10 coins a lot of the time. Oh, Oh, I got to go so far with that. Okay, Okay, well that was not properly, oh, I this was embarrassing, honestly, that I couldn't I need to practice this track, I truly do. I'm you're in first place on this track, like, why did right at the start? It's because the drain section you're in first place, you won't, probably, you frontrunning are good on this track, but being in PAX's final form on Yoshi Teddy Buggy. Okay, so I better than bagging on average. It obviously &quot;Oh, frontrunning any better than bagging.&quot; No, play style and try to be perfect that way. But uh, is for running and bagging, just picking depending example, uh, it depends on the track but it also the start you just get comboed and you're holding do? Do you try to mushroom and go right back up hit and you're defenseless and you have zero for a lot of the race. But uh, in that situation to do a little bit of bagging, get to 10 coins and almost certainly not going to get all the way using zero coins and just like a couple um, and even if you make it there it's going So yeah, because of coins making you faster and you just want to switch to bagging in the middle it is definitely a good strategy when it's, it's now even if it's not quite a bagging track now. wanted to get first place, you probably just want But it's like, that's probably not gonna work. placement, if you do some bagging, you might be that. So yeah, we're not always going in the first Boost panels, please, yes! Oh, great timing, great so I still have a big lead here. If I was a little bit worse here, there's a good chance I because all of the fire flowers and boomerangs and but luckily I was able to maintain my first that if you can front run better than the rest But if you're about the same level as everybody as I'm making it look here. [laughs] You lost left. PAX switches to their final form, gets last Wow, we have another Black Yoshi on, on uh, changed their name, but I think I saw their mii Nooo, I thought it-- no, it's over, Go ahead, go ahead. I'm not dealing coins guaranteed at this next item No, I spammed that mushroom trying to get the Okay, on the bright side, never mind. It's track. Like there, there are like a but it's not very simple. What is this terrain? Okay, let's use this. I don't want this item. All right, pretty good, pretty good. We have of first place a little bit-- no, I didn't Get an item, yes! Oh, that's so scary. [Music] Are you kidding? No, with the green shells, Okay, let's get in front of them and potentially and I have zero coins. This comeback's All right, I'm never frontrunning again.