Say you're throwing a dinner party If you want there to be at least three three who are strangers, how many people do you need to invite? The solution to this problem can be defined by what's called a Ramsey number. Ramsey numbers are central to the Graph theory is a study of networks. if you give me a certain system and maybe you give me some information about the system, what patterns can I expect? Finding Ramsey numbers for networks is one of the hardest problems in all of graph theory. This year, in a surprise announcement... I didn't know they were working so it was like a secret An international group of researchers the Ramsey Number Problem. Networks can be abstracted as graphs, basic structures consisting of connected by lines called edges. Studying patterns in graphs can reveal systems like computer networks or optimization. When considering large graphs, mathematicians like to ask: When will This is where the Ramsey number comes in. It's in some sense this threshold randomness on the other. Take a complete graph of N nodes where all the vertices are connected by edges. Start coloring edges either red or blue. The Ramsey number R of K is the point The solution to the party which means the Ramsey number of With six guests, you are guaranteed to have a set or or all strangers. What about the Ramsey number of four? The answer is 18, but from We don't actually even know what the But for us, really the main and most growth. So as K grows, how In 1926, English mathematician, Frank Ramsey introduced Ramsey numbers He showed the Ramsey number Five years later, Hungarian who famously proposed hundreds of found an upper bound or limit for 12 years later, Erdos identified a lower bound. They had bounds and they said but they didn't know the right answer. Somehow everybody wanted to Someone amazingly, despite the interest I mean there's an exponential Decades later, mathematicians, Rob Morris and Simon Griffiths So it just seems like there's a lot there. But there's sort of some important The team's first approach used a technique The method sorts complete colored It works like this. Start with any node. Look at the connecting edges. If there are more red ones, then delete all the blue edges. Put the original choice in the red bucket Put nodes with more blue Repeat until everything is sorted. To improve the efficiency of the team turned to a tool called a book. The book, it just says, I want to try to take a bunch By pulling out the monochromatic you can speed up the search for a It seemed that we had a viable and it was just that, we just need this one piece to make We thought, okay, maybe in but then later we collapsed. In 2021, graduate student Marcelo Campos joined When I came in, they were working and we worked on it for two Eventually, the team tried their a set of numbers called Off-Diagonal Ramsey numbers. Basically what happens is we relate it and our algorithm actually works This insight then led to an improved By March, the team was ready At first, we were just going to post the okay, it might be nice to actually And they all had very cryptic names, &quot;Recent Advances in Ramsey Theory&quot; or something like that. In three coordinated lectures across the team revealed their breakthrough. I mean news spread like wildfire. By my phone was blowing up. The researchers succeeded in reducing exponentially. After 80 years of trying, this is the first improvement which is a very big deal. So we have a new tool. We developed this new algorithm but we don't really know what I think everybody is now trying to see That's what Feynman said, every time I hear of a new idea, I try it on my three favorite problems. Have a look at these tiles. Can you tell whether any of these shapes never repeating? For more than half a century, mathematicians have sought what's called an aperiodic monotile. This year, a tiling enthusiast together with a team proof of it's existence. There's no reason why this It's all a bit of a blur to be honest. Intricate tile patterns go back millennia patterns of Islamic palaces. For researchers, the study of tiling theory is more Tilings are a good model the atomic structure of But the mathematics that leads the philosophy of logic. The simplest tile patterns are ones They're called periodic tilings. But it's also possible to take this same that never repeat. This is called non-periodic tiling. But you could ask, could I have a set of tiles that but when they made the tilings, those tilings were guaranteed Infinitely tiling sets like this are called aperiodic. In the 1960s, graduate student, Robert Berger found a tile set of more than 20,000 shapes that could be combined to tile a plane, aperiodically. His work set off a By the 1970s Nobel Prize-winning Sir Roger Penrose had discovered aperiodic tiling sets consisting of only two shapes. The most famous of At the time, mathematicians wondered It was natural to ask if you But nobody knew how to do that, and nobody knew how to prove This elusive shape was playfully pun of the phrase for 'one piece.' The question of whether an Einstein tile 50 years until David Smith, a hobbyist interested in puzzles Dave was just engaged in an shapes and the kinds of interesting I've experimented with hundreds of shapes. While playing around with a software Smith stumbled onto one I thought, that's odd. I've not And then I went on to cut out some shapes. Dave glued the shapes together in larger limit of what he could do by hand. Usually what happens But with this I didn't. But I didn't rule it out. It was at this point he contacted who creates pattern building software. He said, can your software give us larger so that we can see whether the surrounding whether it looks like we The shape Smith discovered can a honeycomb grid of hexagons. First connect the midpoints of the opposite sides of the hexagons. This divides the hexagons into six smaller kites. Smith's shape is made up of eight The pair named the new shape With his software. Kaplan constructed concentric rings I was able very quickly with 10 layers of surrounds, 12, 16. It was around then that Dave said: Could this be an answer to the Kaplan and Smith knew but to prove that the hat tile they needed some assistance. So they reached out to others in the mathematician Chaim Goodman-Strauss, and software engineer In just over a week, they had a solution. We've got to credit Joseph for bringing he, in record time, he just got it all lined up and said Their proof involved piecing together themselves like this. First, take the hat tile shape and H, T, P, F. These four metatiles can be compiled called supertiles. Then these four supertiles can be eventually tiling the whole plane. Remarkably, while the researchers were Smith made another surprising discovery. He sent me a second shape, one that And he said, his email was amusingly apologetic. I'm sorry about this, An analysis of the turtle shape by Joseph stunned us by saying, and then he said, in fact, the turtle and all the shapes in that continuum At either end of this continuum lie, two unique tiles named both of which are periodic. In between these outliers, the hat and the turtle shapes fall on aperiodic tiles. News of this discovery spread quickly. This particular paper is probably papers in existence. We all downloaded it and But amid all the attention came a After we put our hat there was one objection to it that About one seventh of the To some, the two reflections in fact two different shapes and not a Which begged the question: Does there exist an aperiodic That's a fantastic follow-up Astonishingly less than a week after Smith discovered another new shape. I thought, well, it's got a lot and all the sides are equal. Dave said, well, hang on. What if I force myself never using reflection. This intriguing shape dubbed the 'spectre' of the hat-tile continuum. Another round of analysis led to a proof aperiodically without reflection. A true Einstein tile. Again, a miracle, no but just good luck that It still is a bit of Because I've always felt that I wanted to discover Given a set of numbers, how many can you choose from so that If you choose too many of there are some three of them The study of number patterns like these additive combinatorics. The biggest unsolved problem left at arithmetic progressions. So it came as a shock when two computer significant breakthrough on what's problem blowing past the previous record. It was a big surprise, and my immediate Graduate student, Zander Kelly, didn't set out to find this proof. We were working on this problem which is this classical question in We thought it had connections We started digging into it, and It's a pretty famous problem. I mean, certainly in pure math, but also it's well-known in theoretical techniques used to attack it. An arithmetic progression of length three is just three numbers with the For example, 1, 2, 3, or 3, 7, 11, or 5, 10, 15. So you just have three numbers, and and it's exactly in the middle. The three progression problem mathematicians Paul Erdos and Paul Turan. The pair wanted to know how many numbers in a set without creating In 1946, a method was found to construct sets giving mathematicians a In 1953, a ceiling was discovered, a threshold beyond which a set must inevitably contain a three-term progression. Since then, there has been only slow As far as I know, the actual fundamental technique itself Zander and Meka looked through the existing of new approaches. So the surprising thing I would say set of tools, were there in previous works. The pair combined two tools that hadn't The density increment strategy focuses You find some subset of your set where you can zoom in on that subset. So you're shrinking the The density of the set has increased. We've made some progress in the sense three-progression in a denser set. An algorithmic procedure called sifting is used to find universes in which the set is dense. So basically you start off with this set progressions in, and it So there's sort of numbers It takes the whole set and it in different directions, like a couple times. It sifts out the noise, right? You're We're able to find this hidden With these combined tools, Kelley and Meka were able to dramatically But as outsiders to the field, the pair sought input on Just sent it to a couple people a look before we've released it publicly. It was just like a pretty big claim, so. Kelly sent his paper to mathematicians, the previous record Given the huge leap forward of the bound well, it can't be done that easily. And then we basically spent the rest of paper, and by the end we were convinced that it was correct. Yeah, so we're very excited about how questions in, going back to theoretical Questions in computational complexity, But there've been so many cases where out of nowhere there's this sort sort of solved in a beautiful, fantastic way using tools that we thought