Today we're gonna talk about how to create That's right, by the end of this little show create that elevator pitch in one sentence, need to go in it, and how one of my one on to get hired on the spot. So, let's talk about this. Elevator pitch. You might be thinking, &quot;Why do I even need Well, let's talk about this for a second. I can think of many reasons, but I wanna talk One is, you've got to have away to introduce setting, whether you're doing it in person, you're doing it online, this elevator pitch application for the LinkedIn headline you So, there's many, many ways to use it, to of others, so that they can understand who But also, one thing that I think gets really like this is, how valuable it can be ... I or a focal point. It's very easy today, in the world we live in general, but as far as your careers go, What should I try? Should I switch careers? Should I?&quot; You know, before you know it, you sorta incrementally, away from who you are, what you're about and do. And, you need a little anchor point to pull So, I think that's a very, very valuable reason So, just a couple of really good ones. And, I always like to warm up with that because the tactics. So, so those are a couple of great reasons. Now, let's talk about how to create that elevator So, I wanna preface this by saying, there's about this, and every trainer's got his or This is just the formula I like, I want you spin and twist on it, and I want you to be and what you feel most comfortable with. But, but, I can tell you, there's three really your introduction of yourself. First one, who you are or what you are. Second one, for whom you do it, and the third or whoever it is, groups, will benefit. So, how will they benefit? So, who you are, for whom you do it and how And, let's look at that. Let's get to an illustration here, just so These three parts, who you are, for whom you Now, that how they benefit, you know, the but how they benefit is the money piece. You wanna be able to show this world and these or institutions or whoever it is that you're And, from an internal, that clarity marker point, the benefit of serving others is what So, it's great for you to do things that make make you happy. But, when you have a necessity, and you feel able to share it and be clear about that, tough. When stuff gets tough. So, I wanna switch back, show you my face well how do we put that sentence together? Now, at this point, I could just give you of people how to do this and watching the that they go through, I wanna give you a little the challenges that you're probably gonna and I wanna help you avoid it. Okay. So, I have a client, he's a coaching client, He enlisted my services to help him in his When somebody does that, they get a handful the phone or we go through the computer and that, or we meet in person if they're geographically This guy happened to live in my town, so, session. And, before the first session, for anybody you gotta do. You gotta gather some thoughts about yourself than they think, but there's a little soul through all the stuff, we get together in So, he and I are meeting for lunch, we sit table, we order, we ditch the menus, and we're I ask him, as we begin, 'cause I wanna see &quot;Tell me what you do, and tell me what you So, he starts talking. And he's talking, and talking, I don't interrupt he takes a breath. Well, about 10, 10-12 minutes into this, I Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop. Stop. Stop.&quot; I said, &quot;As fast as you can.&quot; He says, &quot;Well I was, there's a lot to tell I said, &quot;Well, you can't introduce yourself 10 or 15 minutes about who you are and what So, he said, &quot;I want you to tell me in one He says, &quot;I can't tell you in one sentence, I say, &quot;All right Mr. Smarty Pants, tell you Let's go for one sentence. I'm gonna ask you three questions and I want can.&quot; So, he says, &quot;Okay.&quot; So, I asked him, &quot;Okay, what are you?&quot; And he said, &quot;I'm a CIO.&quot; And I said, &quot;Stop.&quot; And then I said, &quot;Okay. Okay, great. Who do you do that for?&quot; And he must have thought this was a trick He said, &quot;Well, companies.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, stop.&quot; And then I said, &quot;Okay. And what do they get out of it?&quot; He says, &quot;Well, when I work with them, I'm and whatever, and we're creating solutions help them generate revenue, or reduce their So, basically, I try to increase profits.&quot; I say, &quot;Okay, stop. Write that down. Write that down. Just write down what we just said, just those So, he writes that down and here's what it So, I'm a CIO who helps companies optimize and reduce cost. That was it. Took us just a couple of minutes to create Call it a pitch, call it a headline, call want. But, let's take a look at this, because I your hamster running about how this applies So, the first part here, I'm a CIO. Okay, he's a CIO. You might be a business analyst, a financial President of sales, a sales leader, sales be. So, that's kind of the front part. Who helps, all right, so he helps companies. He could've said, manufacturing companies, small companies, startup companies, fortune have said groups, he could have said educational The entertainment industry, the market, the Optimize their IT resources. Okay, that's his key thing. That's specifically what he does as a CIO. And what does that lead to? So, they can, so the companies can, increase Now, we could have said, increase profits, he's a strategic CIO. So, we want companies who are looking at him, helping them generate revenue, not just reducing But, I wanna say this a few times, so they needs the be in your pitch, because the so is you're introducing yourself, what you are So, your beneficiaries, your companies, your customers, your whatever. What are you enabling them to do? What do you think mine is? What are you doing here? I'm helping you with your careers. I want you all leading rewarding careers. That's what gets me out of bed every day. That's what really gets me excited on Thursdays. Because I know you need me and that's why So, I am, my mission is to enable you to lead So, what are you doing? What is it? So, start to think about that. All right now, I wanna take you back and I guy. So, we get done with this, we get done with painful exercises about PIM and self-awareness that he needs. We get his resume in order, that's next, right? First you wanna work on yourself, then you polished up, we sling it onto the world, all He goes to an interview for a company he really candidates, so it's very much in process, four interviews. He interviews with the HR department, he talk schedule as a last round to go meet the CEO And, coincidentally, I think there were three My guy just happened to be last in the process, He gets into the room with the CEO, CEO shakes CEO opens his portfolio, he looks at him, you do.&quot; Not, tell me about yourself. Not walk me through your resume. Not what are you gonna do to the department Tell me what you do. Now, I'm sure, at this moment my client is Or, he's probably not what he was thinking, my words.&quot; But, but, he says to the guy, &quot;Well, as succinctly optimize their IT resources, so they can increase And he stops. And then he stops. And, the CEO, who I'm absolutely certain is sense of humor, closes his portfolio, stands I almost wish I was sitting in the room, because from his face probably went ash white and And, he turns to the CEO and he says, &quot;What And the CEO looked at him and he said, &quot;The The right thing. And, the job's yours if you want it.&quot; And then as the color started to probably on to say, &quot;Because anybody who is that clear and what they do for the companies they work And, and, I'm also guessing with that clarity, me and that's very important because I'm very their units on their own. So, the job is yours if you want it.&quot; Now, I've come to know, the CEO sits back 30 minutes, but there's a lot of reasons why gonna get hired in 18 words, but, this is We talked about a couple of ways that you to introduce yourself, emails, LinkedIn headlines, internal clarity marker, so don't overlook Okay now, if you like this step, I mentioned part video series. There's a video series that I created about with the titles, I think I've settled on, It's in the job description of this video. It's free, it's on the YouTube channel, you And, it takes you from this elevator pitch why and confirming your why and testing your you can assemble a virtual environment for And, it's a great series for people who are It's a great series for people who are changing for people who just simply wanna change jobs right stuff, they're investigating it properly So, no matter who you are. It's a good watch. So, I hope you take me up on that. Now, if you guys are still here, you 171 one up button. Share the video, share the video, and put at it. I can see it going feverishly, zipping on I'm taking 'cause I get distracted. Now, if you are somebody who is listening of the podcast platforms, I'm letting you week have fun. And if you want more along these lines, then up this video on how to create your elevator