Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. I am at the White House, in America's capital, Washington, D.C. America makes a lot of Hollywood. But they don't make the most But the country that makes the most India. Every two years, the country of India fills up enough film with unique that stretch all the way from this city, in London. That's double what Hollywood That is a lot of movies, but is real-life a movie? I've discussed the frame does the resolution of the human eye compare to a camera or screen? VHS, LaserDisc, DVD, Blu-ray, IMAX. Numbers like these are they tell us the total number of picture A figure often used to describe digital more is better, but to be sure numbers are not resolutions per se. of the equation. Resolution is about distinguishing fine details and that depends on a lot of other factors. For instance, the amount of light, the what the millions of pixels are actually how close the subject is. I mean, up close Salvador Dali's painting of his wife resolved into boxes. But from a far, well, it's Abraham Lincoln. For crying out from far enough away, low and high, even resolved differently from one another by your eye. How different nearby pixels are from one spatial resolution. For instance, if I go out-of-focus the number of pixels in the video frame detail. Now, with all this in mind we can still compare human vision to a digital image, Assuming everything else is optimal, how image on a screen large enough to fill look like real life, without any pixelation? Now we are getting somewhere. Kind of. The analogy is still crudy because a camera snaps an entire frame our eyes move around. The brain amalgamates their constant stream of information sight. In fact, the image created by the would hardly even be acceptable on a our eyes create images like this picture But for one thing, unlike a camera, in the way. For instance, you are always looking at your own nose, and maybe even if you have them. Luckily, our brains don't matter and they don't change. But thinking those are is a pitfall, literally, latinly. The fovea gets its name from the Latin for 'pitfall'. The fovea is the pit on your central two degrees of your field of view, about the area when held at arms length away. Optimal only possible within that little area. has a brilliant illustration. It points out other problems, like blind spots - literal blank spaces in our vision where the optic nerve meets and no visual information is received. If you bought a camera that did this, you would return it. You can find your own blind spot by closing your right eye, fixating your left eye extending your left thumb and then moving it left-of-center slightly slowly carefully it's not there anymore. Crazy(!) we don't see the world horribly, like dragging foveal resolution wherever we need it. And our brains' complex visual system fills in details, merges images from both eyes and makes a is a processed image. well, meat-generated imagery. is a great way to demonstrate this blue circle in this picture. The white here is the same as the white here. A camera isn't fooled, a screen isn't fooled, only you and the fleeting gumbo of is fooled. Our vision is not analogous to a camera. But our answered because human anatomy allows us angular distances. Famously, Roger N .Clark used a figure of 0.59 arcminutes based on the size of our total field of how many of these distinct elements The result was an approximation of how many individual picture elements - His answer? 576 megapixels. That many pixels, packed your entire field of view, regardless of proximity, would be close enough to be undetectable human eye. But we should factor in the fovea, because Clark's calculation assumes eye to move around. But a single glance is more analogous to only about 7 megapixels, optimal acuity the fovea covers during a fixed stare, are needed to be rendered undetectable. rest of your field of view would only need about 1 megapixel more information. Now that might are plenty of modern technologies that better than we can differentiate. Apple's Retina Displays truly do average eyesight can't differentiate from typical reading distances. But the fact that densities that can fool the human eye is not a sign that we see in any kind of megapixelly way. Human vision just isn't that digital. I mean, sure, like a and discrete number of cells in our retina. But the brain adjusts our initial that is a wishy-washy top-down processed blob of experience. It's not made of pixels and furthermore, unlike a camera, it's not digital camera file. Absolutely no evidence has ever been photographic memory. And what's even visually resolve the real world, like a movie camera, we also don't narratively resolve like most movie scripts. The point of is an idea. An idea that initially drew me to this question. We play roles in the movie of life, but it's a special kind of movie. discrete, resolved, like pixels, with whereas the real world is all about ear resolution. I like how Jack Angstreich put it in 'Cinemania'. In a movie, a character can make a across the street and have the credits But in the real world, after you cross you have to go home. The world goes on. Life doesn't appear in any particular pixel resolution or narrative resolution. Things are continuous. The world was running before after you are gone. Your life is a plot and ends and occurs in medias res. Damerish opens illustration for without endings says it perfectly. In life, there rarely is the end. There is only the and. And as always, thanks for watching.