(wondrous music) (spacey synth music) (mysterious piano music) (mysterious piano music continues) (doorbell rings) (mysterious piano music continues) (mysterious piano music continues) (vacuum hums) - Oh, hey, Mya. You about done? - Yeah. I'm almost done with the bathroom, and then I'll vacuum up this rug, and I'll be good to go. - Good, good. Hey, listen, I'm gonna be taking off for about a week, and I wondered if you'd be able to take care of the place for me while I'm gone. Is that all right? - Yeah, that works. - Excellent. I'll write you a check for this week and for next week. - Okay. - There you go. You're still looking for an apartment, aren't you? - Yeah, I haven't had any luck yet though. - Those things are expensive these days, I know. Listen, I'll keep my eyes out for you, okay? - Thanks. - [Man] Okay, take care. - [Mya] You too. (eerie mysterious music) (engine revs) (soft mysterious music) (message beeps) (soft mysterious music continues) (message beeps) (soft mysterious music continues) (rake scratches) (soft mysterious music continues) - Hi, can I help you? - Hi, I'm Mya. I'm here for the cleaning job. - Oh, well, thanks for coming. I was just doing some lawn work. Nice weather, huh? - [Mya] Yeah, nice day. - Did you come from far? - Mm-mm. My place isn't too far from here. - Come with me, and I'll give you the official tour. Yes, this is it. Let me show you around and get you acquainted. Mya, right? - Yeah. Davis. - Right on. Matt Baumgardner. It's official, right? Oh, let's go upstairs. (footsteps tapping) After you. (eerie music) My sister lived in here, after our father died. - Sorry to hear that. - Well, thanks. It's been eight and a half... No, nine years. Well, anyways, it's been vacant. (eerie music continues) - Is there a washer or dryer? - No, they're broke. I go to a laundromat once a week. - That'll work. - Well, good. - When do you think I can move in? My other place, the lease just ran out and so, the sooner the better for me. - Whenever, I guess. - This is exciting. Thanks, Matt. - Lemme show you the rest of the place. And I'll get you a key for this lock. - Okay. (door creaks) So, is this all your mom's stuff? - Yeah. She was a collector, sort of like me. - What kind of stuff do you collect? - Records, books. You should see my room, it's a huge mess. But that's not part of the job. And the basement either. But everything else. - Mattie, I'm gonna be taking off. Hi, you must be Matt's new housekeeper. I'm Eileen. I'm Matt's younger sister, and also his former roommate. - It's nice to meet you. - Are you sure you're up for this? Matt's kind of messy. - I like to call it slightly disorganized. - Well, there's a reason I moved out. (Eileen chuckles) I'm just gonna take this. - We're selling some things on eBay. Just collecting dust. My mom used to collect these little painted porcelain animals. - Oh, I actually think my grandma probably had some stuff like that. - Yeah, you're probably too young. What are you, 20 something? - Yeah, something like that. - I'm sorry, I didn't mean to be too forward. Well, you have my phone. Text me when you're ready to move in, and I'll get you a key. - Okay. - I'll be outside. - Okay. (soft mysterious music) (soft mysterious music continues) (soft mysterious music continues) - Let me guess... My brother said he hid the key in the mailbox. 'Cause nobody ever looks there, right? (Eileen chuckles) - Eileen, right? - That's me, don't forget it. So, I brought some fresh linens from home, and I also tidied up the place for you. - Oh, thank you. Do you live nearby? - Oh, close enough. Maybe an hour. When I heard my old room was gonna be occupied, I thought the least I could do was tidy it up for ya. So, are you gonna be bringing some more of those things from home? I can give you a hand if you want. - Um, no, this is it. My other place came furnished, so I just have some dishes and clothes. You know, just basic stuff. - Well, this place comes furnished too. Enjoy. - Thanks, Eileen. - You're welcome. (Matt knocks) - Hi, Mya. I was just checking in. Do you like the place? - Yeah. Think somebody needs the furniture too? - Oh, sure. It's been in here since Eileen left. Pretty dusty, I heard. - That's okay. I'll just start cleaning up here tomorrow. - Um, I got you a housewarming gift. (soft music) My mom used to collect those. - [Mya] Are you sure you don't wanna keep it? - Oh, no. You keep it. Heck, I've got a bunch of those around the house. I tell you what, when you're cleaning, if you see something you'd like, just let me know. - Okay. - Okay. Just text me if you need anything. - I will. (soft eerie music) (mellow music) (vacuum hums) (mellow music continues) (mellow music continues) (mellow music continues) I don't know if there's an opener. Oh. what the hell are you doing? Put that back. - Chill out. It's not like he's gonna notice. This place is kind of a dump. - [Mya] I didn't notice your car outside. - Yeah, it broke down when I got here. Alternator or something. My dad's gonna get a friend from work to fix it. Anyways, Gabe gave me a ride over. Come on, you remember Gabriel. - Oh, yeah, your boyfriend. - Whatever, we've known each other since like first grade. But yeah, he's into those old cameras and stuff. We took some photos. - [Mya] With or without clothes? - Seriously, Mya. We're just friends. You can join us anytime. - Uh, tempting, but I'd rather not take nudies with you and Gabe. I'm just kidding. I saw him at the store last week, and we chatted for a bit. - I drove through the old neighborhood. Your house looks the same. - So does yours. - [Emily] Hey, how's your dad been? - Good. - I didn't mean to bring up anything you didn't wanna talk about. - [Mya] It's fine, it's not your fault. - Hey, have you thought about enrolling next semester? There's loans and stuff. - We've been over this so many times. I can't. If Dad needs something, I need to be around. But I'm saving up for nursing school, remember? - Yeah. Looks like you've been doing pretty well for yourself. Running a business and everything. - You wanna stay here tonight? - Yeah. I'm in town till Thursday. My parents are driving me insane. - Let's go see my room. (eerie music) Do you remember how competitive your dad used to get when we played Candyland? - Oh my God, yeah. - Your mom would always get so embarrassed. - Yeah, like dude, you're playing with a bunch of kids. Just go out. - Candyland is not that serious. (Emily chuckles) - [Emily] Oh, hey, I got you something. Heads-up. - What's this? - They passed out a bunch at school. I figured, when you're out jogging, you might need something. Just in case. - Seriously, Em, I can handle myself. - Just throw it in your purse or something. Geez. (Emily sighs) I'm tired. I drove all day. - [Mya] Yeah, it's getting pretty late. - Hey, do you mind if I use the shower before we go to sleep? - Yeah, of course. There's towels in the bathroom. - [Emily] Cool. - Whoops. Almost lost him over here. - Boom. (toothbrush rustles) (Emily spits) (soft mysterious music continues) (footsteps thudding) What's with the water here? Smells weird. Mya? - Oh, yeah. It's just an old house, where it smells. (mysterious music) (mysterious music continues) (mysterious music continues) (tense unnerving music) (tense unnerving music continues) (tense unnerving music continues) (tense unnerving music continues) (tense unnerving music continues) (Matt stomping) - Shut up! Shut up! (Matt stomps) (unnerving music) (hands slamming) (unnerving music continues) - Um, hey, Matt. I'm gonna start cleaning here in just a few minutes. I've just been catching up on other jobs. Did you just get in? - Is someone living upstairs? Is someone up there? - No. No, no, no, no, no. I have a friend that came to visit. She stayed the night. Why? Did I do something wrong? I can tell her to go. - No, no. I just heard something. Maybe it was mice. It all makes sense now. - I'm so sorry. I didn't think to tell you. Don't worry, she's gonna leave today. - Maybe next time... Ask for permission. (unnerving music) - Oh... Yeah, of course. Yeah, I'm sorry. (unnerving music continues) What the hell are you doing up here creeping around? - Mya, that dude, Matt, or whatever the fuck his name is, is acting weird as hell. - Can you keep your fucking voice down? He's gonna hear you. - Probably his hidden cameras watching us take showers or something. - Are you trying to get me kicked out? I'm not the one, it's his place. - I'm not the one who gave you a fucking creepy clown, Mya. - You done? - Yeah, because I have to meet my parents for lunch. The highlight of my day. Do you have a Band-Aid or something I can borrow? I cut my foot on the floor out there. - Yeah. Hold on a second. (eerie music) Sorry. This is older than the house. (tense music) - Mya, I didn't mean to bring up old, bad memories the other day. - It's okay. I know you think about Elyse too. - I should get going, before he comes back. - Do you need a ride? - No. Gabe is picking me up around the block. - Okay. (unnerving music) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (containers clattering) (unnerving music continues) (weed wacker buzzes) (mysterious music) Hey, Dad. How are you feeling today? (soft pensive music) I got a new place. It's free too. Well, I have to clean for some guy in order to stay there, but it's really nice. Quiet neighborhood. You'd like it. (soft piano music) Do you remember that one time when we all went to the beach, and you took me and Elyse to look for sand crabs, and one of 'em bit her on the toe? She started crying and wanted to go home but, you were telling us that there was a magical dolphin waiting in the ocean to swim with us. I knew you were teasing us, but she didn't. She talked about that dolphin all the way home. (soft piano music) I miss her, Dad. I miss Mom. I miss you. I miss our talks. Dad? Dad, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to. I'm so sorry. I don't know what happened. (soft piano music continues) Dad... I need you. (tense music) - Hi. Is Mya home? - Oh, she's gone for the moment. Can I leave her a message? - Oh, no, I'm in town for today. I tried calling her, but she must have left her phone off. - You must be Emily. Yeah. - Mya said you were visiting. You had some car trouble? - Yeah, but it's all fixed now. I'm heading back tonight, actually. - Where are my manners? I'm Matt. - Um, I can totally stop back later. She's probably cleaning for someone. I just figured I'd swing by and check. - Oh, no, no. I can let you in. I have a spare key for her room. - You weren't planning on moving in, were you? - Oh, no, definitely not. - I'm just giving you a hard time. Follow me. I don't bite. (unnerving music) (unnerving music continues) It should be in here somewhere. These old doors use a basic skeleton key. - I can always come back later, if you can't find it. - No, no, that's fine. Here it is. So, do you go to college? - Uh, yeah. - The one in Evansville? - Yeah, that's it. Second year. - I always wanted to go to college, but it never worked out. Say, can you give me a quick hand with something? I hurt my back the other day, and I need to move a dresser over a little bit. It's in my room. - Oh, I don't know if I can lift it by myself. - No, no, no, no. Just scoot it over a little bit. It'll just take a quick second. - Sure, I guess. (unnerving music) - I don't know why I keep this door locked. Habit, I guess. (door creaks) Sorry for the clutter. Guess I picked up my parents' habit of collecting too much junk. - Where do you need it moved again? - We'll just move it a little bit. My mom loved this piece. Her mom gave it to her. Been in the family a long time. - [Emily] Uh, where do you need it moved again? - If we could just move it back a bit, so we can have a little more space right here. - Okay. - Oh, Emily... Must have flared something up. Can you give me a moment. - Yeah. - My sister keeps telling me that I need to get it checked out. Guess I'm just too stubborn. (tense music) (door creaks) - That must be Mya, I better... - [Matt] Emily? - [Matt] Thank you for helping. - Yeah. - I'll get around to it another time. (unnerving music) - Mya. - I thought you were leaving. - Tomorrow. (door creaks) - What? - Mya, you need to leave here. - I told you, I can't afford classes. - No, I mean this place, there's something up. That guy is weird. - Where were you when I walked in? - Helping him, Matt or whatever, move some old dresser. - You went into his room? - Yes, and he has a room locked in there with a padlock. - You're freaking me out, Em. - We can stay at my parents' house tonight, and then we can come back tomorrow with my dad and get your stuff. - Emily, you can't be serious. - Mya, trust me, please. Oh my God. You are serious. Come on, Matt? Matt downstairs? - The guy is totally off his rocker. Why is his room locked? - The same reason mine is. Privacy. - [Emily] After what happened to your sister, are you even serious? - Wow. Classy. - I'm sorry. - You know what? Why don't you go to your parents' house. Or better yet, why don't you drive your privileged ass back to that fancy university of yours? - So now I have a free handout? - Well, not all of us get the same opportunities in life. - You know what? Fine. This was a mistake. (eerie music) (water runs) (eerie music continues) (footsteps thudding) (eerie music continues) (footsteps thudding) (eerie music continues) (footsteps thudding) (ducks quacking) (camera shutter clicking) - Hey, Gabe. - It's 35 millimeter. This is gold. I mean, I shoot on this, but this is ancient. I don't know how you came across this. - Um... It was my Dad's. He- - Oh, say no more. Em told me about your dad. Tell you what, I do have a dark room set up in my place. And if you're not in a hurry, I might be able to help you out with this. - Yeah, that would be amazing. Thank you. I mean, there's no rush. And if you need money, I'm more than happy to- - Oh, no, no, no. It's okay. This is on the house. Just glad you're doing all right. - Thanks. Maybe we can hang out sometime. - Yeah. - Yeah, I mean... If you're ever in trouble with the IRS, I can maybe help you out with that too. - You're such a nerd. (unnerving music) (door creaks) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (door creaks) (unnerving music continues) (dramatic piano music) (dramatic piano music continues) (dramatic piano music continues) (dramatic piano music continues) (dramatic piano music continues) (dramatic piano music continues) (unnerving music) (Eileen tapping) - Hey. Matt evict you already? - Um... Sorry. Matt's younger sister? We met when you were moving in, remember? - Yeah, sorry. Rough night. - It's all right. When I'm in town, I go jogging out here, and then I always treat myself to some donuts. It's counterproductive, I know, but it's what I like to do. I have some extras, if you're interested. - Um... Matt's probably wondering where I'm at. (Eileen chuckles) - So, there's not enough cleaning that could make that house shine. I know a little place we could go. - Um... Yeah, sure. - All right, come on. (unnerving music) (unnerving music continues) - Was I expecting company? - Hey man, I'm a sucker of old houses. I really love the architecture. It's exquisite. - Usually when you come on someone's property, you ask for permission first. - Right, yeah. I'm just here to see Mya. I'm actually here to drop something off. Here. You can tell her that's from Gabe. She'll know what it is. - I'll make sure she gets these. (unnerving music continues) - Matt used to mow lawns in the summer and he'd use the money to buy donuts. And he'd always share 'em with me. And we'd eat so many that mom always wondered why we didn't have an appetite for lunch. (Eileen laughs) - Did you guys always live in that house? - Yeah. Only kids on the block. The summers felt like they would never end. (Eileen chuckles) Mom and Dad were always away on some excursion or auction or something like that. And we found ways to pass the time. What about you? Did you always live around here? - Yeah, we were on Forest Drive. - [Eileen] By Willard Elementary, right? - Yeah. - [Eileen] Okay. - We were in the little cul-de-sac behind the school. - Any family in the area? - My dad raised us after my mom died, but he just has some health issues, so. - Aw, I'm really sorry, Mya. My sister... She was abducted when I was 11. Probably heard about it on the news. - Yeah, I think I do remember hearing about that. Of course, I was in Maine at the time, and then I came back to move with Matt, you know, after our dad died. - Yeah, well, I'm sure you saw it. It was all over the news, and on every flyer. Riding the bus home from school sucked. Everyone just stared and... Every day I'd come home and check her room to see if she'd come back, but she never was. We never found her. - What was her name? - Elyse. - It's pretty. So... Aside from sharing a roof with my dumb big brother, any plans? - I'm really just trying to save up for nursing school, so this job means everything to me. I really appreciate what you both are doing, helping me. - No, it's all Matt. He might be a little off, but he's got a heart of gold. Hey, I've actually gotta run. But thank you for meeting me for coffee. - Thank you. Thanks for the donuts. - Oh, you're welcome. See you later. (soft music) - Mya? You had another visitor. - Was it Emily? - No. Some fellow, Gabe? Gabriel? That's what he went by. He had a camera. - Oh, yeah, he's just a friend from high school. - Well, he's kind of nosy. Mya, this isn't gonna turn into regular thing, is it? 'Cause I can always find somebody else. - No, no. Matt, please. I need this. Please. I'm so sorry. I never gave him my address, or anyone else. - Hey, just relax. I heard you had breakfast with my sister. She said if I even think of getting a new cleaning person, I might go missing. (Matt chuckles) - [Mya] Thanks, Matt. - Now if I could just get a good cook. (Mya laughs) - You'll have to pay me for that. - I'm going to the store. Do you need anything? - No, I'm okay. - Yeah. Hey, Mya? You look nice. - Thank you. (unnerving music) (mysterious music) (mysterious music continues) (mysterious music continues) (mysterious music continues) - Of all times, right now? No, we are not doing this. - [Matt] Eileen, it's settled. - And what about the girl? - What about the girl? She can find another place. - Don't play dumb with me, Matt. - I told you, I'm selling the place. I'm done here. - Oh, you go right ahead. See where that gets you. Better yet, why don't you sleep on it? (unnerving music) (object rattles) (hammer bangs) (unnerving music continues) (eerie music) (dramatic piano music) (letter rips) (dramatic piano music continues) (dramatic piano music continues) (Mya heaves) (Mya grunts) (latter clatters) (tense music) (cover clangs) (tense music continues) (Mya sobs) (tense music continues) (tense music continues) - That looks really good. - Um... So just this wall, right? - Uh, yeah. Oh, and thanks for coming out today. You know, things have been a little chaotic around here. My daughter is visiting from Tulsa, and that's her daughter, Alexis. - What grade is she in? - Second. No, wait, almost third. You know, I just don't see her often enough, and I'll take every minute I can get. Um... Do you think that maybe we should open a window or something? You know, for the smell? - Um, yeah, sure. - Alexis? Why don't you go out front and play for a little bit while this nice man is working. - Okay. - Okay? I'll be out and check on you in just a little bit. But stay out front, okay? - Okay. (unnerving music) (unnerving music continues) - [Matt] Is her mom heading back today? - Uh, tomorrow, actually. She's visiting some college friends. - That's quite the drive. - Oh, sure is. They drive it twice a year. I used to fly, but things are just getting so expensive. Do you have kids? - [Matt] Um, nieces. - Oh, nice. How old are they? - Seven, six, and Maddie's four. - [Woman] Hm, youngsters. Boy, they can be quite the handful at that age. (Matt chuckles) - Yeah, they can. Um... (tense music) (paint squelches) - Alexis? Oh my God! Oh my God! Alexis! She's gone! Call 9-1-1! (unnerving music) (unnerving music continues) - Mya. Mya? - Hey, sorry, I had my music on. - Oh, no, that's all right. So, I'm looking for Matt. I just wanted to talk to him for a minute? - Um, I haven't seen him. - Oh, okay. All right, thank you. - Hey, sis. (unnerving music) (Matt chuckles) You know, my sister's something else. She thought she heard a mouse down here. - Huh? I'm sorry. - Oh, that's right, you couldn't hear me. My sister was thinking there was a rodent in the house. We you get 'em up in your room and the attic. - Um, I haven't seen any. - Do you mind if I put some traps out tomorrow? I'll be in and out. - Yeah, sure. I'll just be cleaning anyway. - Okay. And Mya? - Yeah? - I have something else for you. It's not fair for you to do all this work and not get paid. - [Mya] Thanks. - [Mya] This helps. - It's almost like you're part of the family now. (Mya chuckles) - Does Eileen have any children? - Um, no. I think she wanted some though. Why did you ask? - Sorry, I didn't mean to pry, she just... She just seems like she'd be a good mom. - I'll be in my little cave. - Okay. (tense foreboding music) (train whistles) - Did you not see I called you like 20 times? - What do you want? - Well... Getting sloppy, stupid. - Oh, fuck, no. - Destroy it. (dog barks) Look, I don't care what you do, just destroy it. Get rid of it, I don't care. For fuck's sake, I'll do it. My God. Do you still have those pills? - They're in my back room. - Okay, all right. - Please, Eileen. I don't wanna be a part of this anymore. - Aw. Does Mattie wanna keep another pet? - [Matt] No. - It's too late for this, Matt. We're gonna do this. Sounds good. - Eileen... Let me do it. - Fine. I'll keep watching in case your new friend wakes up. (unnerving music) (door creaks) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) (unnerving music continues) Fuck. (tense music) (saw rustles) (tense music) (Eileen screams) - Em. Em. (unnerving music) It's okay. Hey, hey, hey. It's all right. - I want my mommy and daddy. - What's your name? - Alexis. Are those bad people going to come back? - Yeah, they're coming. We gotta get outta here, okay? Come with me. Go that way. (unnerving music continues) Alexis, I need you to listen to me very carefully, okay? I need to get my friend out of here, but I can't do it without your help. I'm gonna help you through this window, and I need you to run as fast as you can to the first house that you see, and knock, and ring the doorbell as hard as you can until someone answers. Do you understand? - Yeah. Will you be okay? - Yeah, I'll be okay. Tell them to send the police to 630 Rockingham. Can you repeat that for me? - 630 Rockingham. - Good. And what are they gonna do? - Send the police. Your friend is hurt. - 630 Rockingham. - [Mya] There you go. (tense music) - I told Matt this wasn't a good idea. - You were a part of this? - Yeah. What do you wanna know? - Where's my sister? - Oh, there were so many. - If you're gonna shoot me, you might as well tell me. I don't have anyone left, so I don't give a fuck what you do. - Oh, you're brave. Sure, I'll tell you. She's gone. And she was Matt's favorite too. - You killed her? - Oh, honey, she was in such bad shape, we just put her out of her misery. Beside, you were the one we wanted. - How could you do something like this? - Because... I wanted someone to keep. And my big, dumb brother made for such a nice distraction. But that's all over, because he's dead, she's dying, and you too. - Fuck you. (Eileen gasps) (sirens faintly blaring) (knife clatters) (unnerving music) (unnerving music continues) (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues)