IO games, you guys absolutely love them I think the last when we played was the Fortnite version which was actually really really cool and tons of you have you been asking me to play this one. It's called CrazySteve.io, which is basically some kind of like weird Minecraft .IO as you can see in the background looks a little crazy Not quite sure what's going on, but people are blowing each other up for diamonds And I think I just saw a gravestone weird controls move attack speed up hold space to stop and chat Yeah, we don't want to chat. Let's not do that. So I was reading through this earlier and it makes zero sense. It's obviously been translated from some other language that the game Crazy Steve io is created for fun and fast fighting makes sense The main task in crazy Steve is to score as many points as possible and be the coolest Cool emoji to do this. You need to collect diamonds and apples They appear on the map for diamonds you charge more experience than apples, but thanks to Apple You can recovery your health a lot of diamonds fall out of the killed rival. Do you understand what we are inclined to? yippie You need to scatter around the dynamic checkers to shoot the bow attack with the sword shoot from the fireball and use every other weapon in every way to kill the rivals Gun emoji and then take the diamonds for yourself on the map running animals and that can kill em recovery health Let's just put in a nickname. I'm going to put in my nickname and see what happens. Let's choose a skin. I Better be on here. Am I on here? Please? Let me be on here. Please. Don't do this to me. I'm not on here I'm upset. I want to be I mean we have to go derpy right? Let's see what happens. So we move around with this oh dude, the lag is crazy. It doesn't move that quickly. I've got TNT I've just dropped it and it Exploded what's with the experience bar down on the bottom? But I have no idea to hold down the right mouse button. Oh jeez. You can boost I need to get those back I just pooped out all my diamonds gone down to level one again whoops, which is this explodes going on I think the higher the level you get the more you change. Oh, no, leave me alone. Leave me Oh and the more you change your weapons, so what's on? 36,000 score, that's crazy. Someone's trying to explode me and I'm not a fan. Oh, what's this? Hey, you got to wear a helmet as well. I can't see my eyes have gone All you can see is my tongue and my dribble. This isn't gonna help, I'll upgrade to iron though. I'll take it So do you not like eat each other you just fight? I'm pretty sure that's what's going on here. Come here. Explode explode him explode. I think I exploded myself I did I've got slitter of health. What an idiot. Are you joking? No, I got killed by a a chick inside of a minecart with a diamond sword. What a shame. Well, that didn't go Well did it lets try that again. Of all things a minecart. Oh, diamond helmet give me that yeah, lets go what was that It's a cake I've got a bomb. Is that a bomb? Oh, that's a pig. The pig killed me. What's this though? I'm like shooting eggs I want this. Yeah I want the fireballs definitely. No, leave me alone. Leave me alone. Leave me alone. Leave me alone I'd need to remember that the, I thought that was another player. I thought it was weird. He didn't have anything else on him It's the animals that they warned about in the bas translation. Right, so I'm 32nd I need to get to 4000 score to even be on the top ten. Am I gonna win this absolutely not It's also showing me an arrow to something. That's chase it and see what happens. Oh, wait a second We've got a big ol obsidian bow right now. I'm just gonna follow this arrow See what it goes to it could be pointing to where I'm gonna end up dying. Who knows or maybe it points to the guy who's got the most which is currently 39,000 so this could be bad. Oh wait It's a gravestone here. Give me give me your stuff. Give me your stuff I think we can shoot these to get the money out of them Common, I want your stuff. Give me your stuff. Oh, I'm on 1k sweet I think I'm gonna stick with the the bow and arrow for now the arrows change direction Where is it going? What is happening, oh the minecart. Give me this. Yes. Oh Dude, I wish I had my skin in this this would be great. Oh I'm 13th. That's pretty cool I don't know how much the minecart helps you. I'm thinking it's gonna be pretty good. Whoa. Oh my goodness People are dying all over the place. Give me your diamonds. I'm running over their gravestone, which is up It's a little bit creepy not gonna lie. I don't to lose this. I need to get another Thousand to be able to overtake 10th place. I think I can do it I don't know how many other people are here, but I can't find any of them and there's a ton of diamonds over here I think I've got this. Oh I can hear explosions. Oh jeez total massive as well. That means the person is huge Who's chasing me? I'm 10th! Yes Okay, we're doing well we're doing well. We actually getting bigger. I guess we're not gonna be able to tell until someone goes past Oh geez no, don't they've exploded themselves. Good job. Thank you for your diamonds. The tnt's are really unreliable They stick to you until you push them right you come here. No, I kicked out. I kicked out. Oh, jeez No, no, no. No, this is bad. Don't do that again, please you stay out of here I don't know how much damage is gonna do but he's trying to exploit me exploding my car. No Does this not affect him? I'm bouncing I'm out. This is bad. I'm ninth. I don't want to ruin this No, leave me alone Get away with your TNT, please. I've got another minecart. Watch out buddy. I think I just got him actually Yes, got rid of your Golden Hat. Oh my goodness We're in the battlefield now guys. Oh my word things are gonna go back. I've gone down to 10th because of somebody Get him get him get him. Yes No, I just outrun the TNT back up tonight. I'm on 4k, okay, is that how much health we have? I kind of need some protection right now Oh Those things are good. Yeah, those things are very very good. Stay away from me The arrows aren't very good at all their hearts, No! Look how little health he had. I'm so upset. There's my little gravestone as well. What on earth man 4300 is our best. We're going spooky for the next one back down to level 1. What about these eggs? Let's try the eggs out. Oh, no. Oh, no. The eggs are crazy. The eggs. Absolutely crazy Oh, dude I'm gonna explodes. Ya I'm dead. I'm so dead. This guy is massive. His eggs are huge This is dumber than his skin. Oh my word these oh my goodness I might actually be able to do this, if he doesn't manage to place his TNT we might be alright Am I about to take this guy down? Come on Come on, so close. So close. No leave the TNT alone, buddy. Leave it alone We just took him down. Oh, you have no idea how much he had we took down someone who was We're still collecting it. It's struggling to collect. I can't carry it all 3,000 lets go. There's still stuff to collect. Give me this. I want it Why can't I take it? Straight up to 12th place with that big old KO It won't let me grab the rest of the big diamonds So I'm just gonna have to you know, chill from here wait to the apples give you health The apples give you health. I need this helmet. Thank you. I need a better weapon though this these eggs aren't gonna cut it I don't think I need the exploding fireballs. I got the bow by accident. Whoops fireballs Fireballs, where are the fireballs? I'm just trying to heal up right now. Where are they? No, that's a big explosion Someone's coming in with their eggs as well. I can't see where they are though. Ow, someone hit me with that long shot just now Steve calm down. Both of you calm down, please. I can't be having this You're gonna explode any second now and you leave that alone as well. This is mine. Come here. Come here He's stealing all my diamonds. Oh, I just killed two people. Oh No, he's got more health than me. He's got my health than me. I need to run. I need to run. I'm out of here No, leave me alone. Leave me alone. Leave me alone. I'm still shooting. I don't even know why I'm dead. I'm so dead. No, 5260 Oh, I didn't realize we were so high. Let's go I don't currently know how high we got on the leaderboard then but I think we're playing as an upside-down iron golem I've got myself a minecart from the get-go as well back to basics even though this looks super basic I am I'm having fun. I Probably shouldn't be having this much fun. But I am so don't judge me please the person up top has 51,000 it's calling this game because it doesn't mean that someone with 50,000 can just come across and eat you you can take down someone Who has a lot higher score than you like we did before? Yes fireballs. Here we go. How is this guy seeing me though? I don't understand. Oh my goodness, there so powerful these fireballs move move right now Thank you. Ok I need to nom some apples. It's actually not too bad to get into the top ten If you hit those tnts though, it's super good See what I mean? I just died Instantly because he laid like four TNT. I am a chick watch out. Elmo just died. I would take the rewards Thanks for the 25 points. This is a very very apt weapon. I am a, oh geez I'm a chick and I'm taking this guy down. It's not taking down much health, but I'm trying yes Get out of here Alex you had like no score anyway. Diamond helmet gimme. Thank you. I can't see but it's all good Okay, guys, I just realized there's a mini-map. I'm going to this giant splodge and seeing what happens what is down here? Oh, no, I don't think so Come here. No, oh my goodness. He just blew himself up. What is the giant splodge? Oh, Okay, yep, it's the big guy it's the 59K guy let's let's leave him alone. Oh no, my diamond helmet back Please keep my diamond helmet back. No, I can't take it back. I'll take this one. This one looks cool This is gonna help me out greatly because I can now see Where people are before I've even there. Hey, hey pipe down pipe down right now. I'm dead He's knocked off my helmet. Get away. Get away.Try and recover. Try and recover. It's so hard to run away I need a better weapon This chick is dead. I'm so dead. I'm gonna pop any second now Ha ha I am King Oh, perfect golden crown for a golden King and that's better It doesn't actually cover my eyes this time going towards the big boy. There's only one King on this server, and that's me Yes, give me this give me the minecart and we're good to go. There's someone down here Oh my word. How do I destroy this guy? You can't basically I took his minecart though. You saw that I took down almost half his health He's gonna pop he's gonna pop he's gonna pop. He doesn't know what he's doing. It's he just spinning around laying TNT All right, he's gone he's definitely gone. Okay one more try kingy let's do this watch out for the pigs. Okay Oh Big attack what's that diamond sword about? I want the diamond sword. Does that mean you can like push into people and Just kill them? I think we got killed by that right at the start didn't we? Oh jeez. Okay, there it is There it is. Almost killed him. Almost killed him. No, my tnts went the wrong way. I was so close. The chick again Was it the same thing? I think it was the same one. I'm well upset. What have I just clicked? Hello What is this, cat and mouse? What is happening? Do I? The mouse, you can be a mouse or a cat I'm not quite sure how I got here. But there's a lot of mice here. Do we beat up the cat? I Think we do. Oh we got absolutely destroyed Wow Okay, this is a thing as well. Look at this army. It's kind of creepy if you're randomly generating as a cat you're dead You're done you what's gonna happen. Anyway, this was meant to be a video about this I hope you enjoyed it. If you did, leave a like that would be greatly appreciated I might check out some more of these IO games because obviously they've made loads of them You can also check this out in description below It's more fun than I thought it would be anyway, but if you did enjoy again Please leave a like and subscribe all that good stuff. I'll see you in the next time. Goodbye .IO (Well that was a peculiar IO game)