In early 1989, famous animation director, David It contains a relic of the past. No, not the thirty-year-old coffee. Rather, some of the earliest depictions of season. These five can be spotted waiting for the Removed from the show after just 10 episodes, they're among few things ever cut from the With over 700 episodes to date, there are than there are these faces. Now, it's no mystery why these characters DVD commentary reveals the segment was cut It was replaced with this shorter shot of 2. Well, that... and these characters break the Rules that were created after the season one Whoops. These internal guidelines tell Simpsons animators Arms like these. And eyes doing that. This is what the Bus Stop Bunch might look These commissioned illustrations follow many drawing. Today, this rulebook spans hundreds of pages. And down the rabbit hole we go. Behind the bus stop is a world of art, science, It's a place where complex ideas are broken Then arranged in ways so delicate, our emotions. Or in other words, &quot;I just think they're neat&quot; To figure out which rules they follow. And, more fun, which rules they retroactively It's time to explore... the &quot;No-No&quot; sheets. April 1991 saw the debut of Simpsons Illustrated. A companion magazine to the show, it only But it certainly left behind a legacy. Its premier issue contains an interview with director, Wes Archer. The interview features Archer's now-famous Giving the &quot;do's and don'ts&quot; of drawing character Don't draw characters cross-eyed. Don't complete the circles for eyelids. And don't make smiles pointy. Okay, pretty mild stuff. But just the tip of the iceberg. These rules come from large style guides created its footing. Style guides are references for animators, time. The entirety of the Simpsons' style guides But bits and pieces have surfaced over the The Simpsons Production Art Twitter account sheets. As have books, like Cartooning With the Simpsons, the Pros. Funny enough, many of these rules were penned Meaning he brought the Bus Stop characters When the 30th anniversary of Simpsons Illustrated Wes Archer combined many of the No-Nos into The eyes in particular are unsettling. So let's start there. Lisa's eyes break one of the most fundamental Characters can be drawn a bit wall-eyed, but Sorry, Quigley. This rule was established to prevent the show cartoon. Drawing a character wall-eyed, however, is art style. Used less frequently nowadays, wall eyes are of emotions, from confusion to excitement. Quoting a No-No sheet, &quot;The Simpsons do a explained to them or done to them...&quot; &quot;The humor is often that you can't tell what's are happening -- and then they react.&quot; Knowing the difference between wall-eyed and We arrive at eye crime number one. The Bus Stop has some rule-breaking pupils. Though, only partially. The shapes are nice and round. And the sizes check out. I learned that the pupil-to-eye ratio should Too small, Bart believes in conspiracy theories. Too large, Homer's a buzzkill. You can spot large pupils all over the early Sticking with the eyes. Eyelids adhere to the original rule sheet This was corrected sometime between layout The blinking, however, does not follow the In the Simpsons' universe, both the top and Unless you're Milhouse! Nobody's like Milhouse. Though, Silverman's original drawing gave It's an unusual sight in Springfield. Almost as unusual as seeing more than 4 eyelashes Only two people at the Bus Stop have eyelashes, Though, Left's placement is a bit off. It's easy to overlook this attribute, even For instance, Lisa and Maggie have their mother's But Maggie has fewer because she's a baby. When it comes to eye placement, I thought But, it was a false alarm. See, there's, quote, &quot;A needling problem with &quot;No one-point tangents!&quot; &quot;Either eyes overlap clearly, or they are Unless the character is wearing glasses. Well, these eyes are barely touching. And so are these. Then, I kept reading. &quot;Do not pose them in this in-between-drawing &quot;Inbetween-drawing&quot; being the keywords. These one-point tangents exist only for a When the characters are in between their standing You'd need to pause the show at just the right But, we'll be coming back to these topics For now, now we've covered the eyes. Unlike this character's hair. Transitioning to the hair, and we have some Quote: &quot;Do NOT design incidental characters &quot;One, hair and head the same.&quot; &quot;And two, Homer beard line.&quot; &quot;In other words... don't out-Simpson the Simpsons.&quot; A couple people at the Bus Stop have Homer And these two have their hair color matching There are even more broken rules if we include Which we should, because the bus was meant See, The Simpsons was often referred to as Meaning that it debuted around the time US Crew members would occasionally hide blink-and-you-miss-it ability to pause. One of the very first of these freeze-frame You were encouraged to pause the show when We can thank VCRs for replacing this simple with this sprawling shot of Springfield in But, back to the hair. This character's hair may not have always Silverman's original drawing gave him a different Something closer to, maybe, Kent Brockman? Regardless, the new and improved designs fix Head-colored hair was dyed. And when it comes to facial hair: And the other went with a clean shave. Resembling a distant cousin of Barney, perhaps. Speaking of relatives, quite a few of Homer's And Krusty the Clown's makeup bears a resemblance to be Homer in disguise. This plan fell through early on though, and Fast-forward to season 7, and Lester and Eliza But they deliberately out-Simpson the Simpsons, Most of the other hair rules I found are character-specific. Like how many loops are in Marge's hair. Or how many palm leaves Sideshow Bob has. My takeaway is that hairdos are explicitly Even seemingly-messy hair, like Barney's, This squiggly hair doesn't look like it's The number of loops changes several times. Then we have the character on the right. Her hair gains great detail after a head-whip. Who is this fine-haired pedestrian, you ask? Well, I dunno. But she reminds me of Misses Gross. Kinda. Misses Gross was a planned season one character grumpy crossing guard. She was supposed to make her speaking debut But the scene was scrapped, and all that survives When Bart and Lisa go to cross the road and Misses Gross hits them with a &quot;Don't tell Underneath all that anger is a talented singer. Misses Gross was originally a performer in This time, her character made it all the way But didn't make callbacks. She was replaced in the final animation. Missing the bus once again. Moving on to the next section. Can you figure out what's wrong with this Pause if you need to, it's subtle. The answer is... the teeth The drawing looks ever-so-slightly off because They don't match the shape of his head. As far as we're concerned, there are zero If mouth profiles were drawn with depth, we And if we could see teeth, there are quite Teeth are emphasized all over the character &quot;When doing the teeth, you must have at least &quot;4 lines is better than 3, 3 is the minimum &quot;Don't draw teeth too small.&quot; And &quot;only use sharp teeth when directed&quot;. Like in Last Exit to Springfield, for comedic This sharp-toothed Homer from the Tracy Ullman It also retroactively breaks two additional One. Never draw a line through the teeth. And two, No Demonic expressions! In the words of David Silverman: cunning.&quot; &quot;They often do cruel and, sometimes, cunning &quot;But they don't plan to.&quot; &quot;They just react.&quot; &quot;They don't think 'I'll do this and get back &quot;Their minds don't work like that.&quot; &quot;They're impulsive, reacting to the situation If you're wondering why this rule was established, Euuuh. Let's look at a friendlier face. Okay, good. Happy Bart. Quote, Stop doing this-- &quot;Stop doing this cutesy, curved-up, happy &quot;This ain't Don Bluth! If they're laughing, maaaybe it's okay, but &quot;It's a little toooo precious.&quot; &quot;Don't over-emote! Don't overact!&quot; This ties in with Groening's whole 'less is Quote, &quot;Keep things simple&quot;. &quot;Lots of cartoonists who should know better that merely clutter things up.&quot; &quot;You can convey space, motion, and feeling The Simpsons is a masterclass in this. Just a few small line changes can drastically And I can think of no better time than now A face so polarizing it's no longer used. A face so noteworthy it comes with the disclaimer: Do not use unless instructed to by director.&quot; A face known only... as Twister Head. Twister Head was used a lot in the early years While it was occasionally used as an in-between-frame It was primarily used by Bart emphasizing Twister Head falls into the category of drawings Accent Drawings aren't meant to be held very They're brief, serving only to enhance an Stretcher Mouth is another accent drawing. And it too comes with a caution! We don't see many, if any, accent drawings There are some exaggerated reactions, but And that's okay! The fact so many Accent Drawings look unsettling the rules. They're not overusing these. I'm reminded of this drawing by Jay Lender, For every one over-the-top expression, draw Twister Head would be phased out sometime Coming back in Treehouse of Horror 25 when Continuing on with the Bus Stop faces. Lips are well-defined and not too pointy. With no signs of what is known as &quot;duck-billing&quot;. Ears are drawn correctly, just the right amount And noses are positioned in usual ways. Cartooning With the Simpsons states &quot;pupils But I'm hesitant to dock a point here. Guy just has a big nose. Large noses or, even pig-like noses for that Otherwise, Moe would need a rhinoplasty. Oh -- they... did that plot already? There are plenty more face-related rules, Stop. Mostly because the characters never interact Like, there's this thirty-page document just to each other! Lip-syncing is also an interesting topic. But alas, no dialogue. By the way, there's potentially a bunch of Lip readers, now's your time to shine. Quote, &quot;Let's say you're dealing with a scene talking.&quot; &quot;There is no recorded dialogue for what they &quot;But we now need to provide a bogus lip assignment &quot;Here's your chance to write dialogue on the Now, for all we know, these background 'conversations' But, in theory, one might be able to approximate I'm curious what jokes animators hid in the Just not enough to reverse-engineer it myself. Anybody? When it comes to clothing, I was hard-pressed There's character-specific stuff, but no general So, I cross-referenced the Bus Stop Bunch wiki. To see if there are any matching outfits. Plenty of characters wear open jackets with Silverman always envisioned this character I had trouble finding one so big, but radio Red dresses and shoes are common in Springfield. As are outfits with ruffles around the neck. This look is a combination of what Smithers, Finding a shirt with buttons laid out precisely I remembered Shelbyville Abe. And lastly, maybe-Misses Gross. She's hard to clothes shop for. I can find bathrobes and... wizard robes that But not many characters wear dresses with The best match might just be this woman from So while Misses Gross has rare clothing, it's But the outfit is something you can find only Right beside the skeletons. Quote, &quot;underneath Homer is a thin guy trying &quot;This bizarre exercise is to merely illustrate approached with human anatomy in mind.&quot; &quot;That is to say, they have: elbows, wrists, and shoulders that rotate. &quot;You can build a Homer suit around this regular correspond to the key features of his anatomy.&quot; The anatomy of the Bus Stop Bunch checks most Though, the woman in red lacks elbows, resembling Nitpicks aside, Simpsons characters have always and proportions. Even some of the ridiculous season one background However, if this character existed nowadays, soft and squishy. More circular. Simple circles are used to construct so many Not just in terms of shape, but also scale. Ned is 5 1/2 head balls high. Marge's hair is twice the height of her head. And Maggie's head is 4 1/2 eyeballs tall. Speaking of little eyes, I spy a few hands But this changes to the standard four once And when the running does start, we have some Something emphasized all over the Simpsons I get it. Animating a moving body is difficult. Quote, &quot;These drawings of Bart are, in fact, &quot;How bad is this? Let me count the ways.&quot; &quot;One, oddly shaped Frankenstein head.&quot; &quot;Two, stupid, little grin.&quot; &quot;Three, big butt.&quot; &quot;And four, dopey poses.&quot; &quot;Arrg! Sorry, I can't take much more of this. If you find yourself drawing like this, start &quot;Do not turn in to your director.&quot; &quot;He will brain you.&quot; Sounds harsh, but I've been cherry-picking For every one strongly-worded note, you get is doing overall. Here's a note with both frustration and praise: hell.&quot; &quot;The nurse is fairly okay, though her perspective With Bart, however.&quot; &quot;The question is: what's right with this drawing?&quot; &quot;The answer: nothing. It's just plain ol' bad.&quot; &quot;And now, through the hands of a good artist.&quot; &quot;Heaven is achieved.&quot; &quot;Eric Stefani redid the layout for me. And I went from heavin' to heaven.&quot; &quot;Notice the clarity in form and perspective.&quot; &quot;Also note how the hand is rendered. The nurse's expression is improved as well.&quot; &quot;And now the punchline... this scene was cut!&quot; At least practice makes perfect. ... Is what I would say, until my research House. The Squirrel House is an unused shot of the Allegedly, it took artist Lance Wilder a day It was animated, but cut from the final episode on standard-definition televisions. The line art was too dense. Wilder didn't want his effort to go to waste, So he used this drawing on personal greeting The takeaway here is, again, don't add complicated Be it human bodies or squirrel bodies. The animators will thank you. Last but not least, let's look at the animation Starting with color! We'll refer to this black-and-white 1989 promotional It contains a lot of neat stuff. Like a copy of the original Simpsons typeface. The rarely-used Simpsons logo. And it gives us the specific Pantone colors The iconic yellow matches. And the other colors can be found in the show's colors. The character's clothing will change tones for you. Minor blemishes are bound to pop up because How many frames are we looking at? Well, we only get to spend roughly 5 seconds At 24 frames per second, they're visible on-screen Let's break down what they do during this The first 60 or so frames see them posed idly, This is an image we should be quite familiar Bart skates by, stealing the retro bus stop The characters are appalled. Remember in between frames from earlier? Yeah, there aren't any of those here. The characters jump from one pose to another It's rather jarring for the Simpsons. But, credit where credit is due. These poses follow the advice of Simpsons Who says that a good pose can be read as only And even without color, some of these characters The next 8 frames of animation are great. Kudos to animators Craig Clark and Kevin Petrilak. You can really get a feel of the characters' of darting forward. Some of the 12 principles of animation are We have squash and stretch. Exaggeration. Anticipation. And follow-through. After the lean-back, the bunch runs left and of Simpsons storyboard artist, Chris Roman. In &quot;Storyboarding: The Simpsons Way&quot;, Roman compose a Simpsons scene. He gives advice, such as: Show at least three planes in a room. And, if &quot;two scenes happen in the same locale, The latter is used a lot during the opening. We transition from Homer to Bart to the Bus away. There's even a fourth, well-hidden cut when They're running down a road different from Moe's is moved into the background to pave One side effect of not breaking up this long then right to left, then left to right again. It all happens pretty seamlessly. But season two fixes this back-and-forth by the whole scene. Just an observation. Finally, we have the 8-frame run cycle. It's well-animated and is comparable to references. But does it break a rule? The document, &quot;Miscellaneous Timing Notes&quot;, how to properly time their animations. When animating a crowd of people laughing, Everyone laughs, but NOT in unison. Each person should be in a different laugh When animating a crowd of people clapping, Everyone claps, but NOT in unison cycle than the person next to them. So does that mean each person should be in to them? I couldn't find anything on that. Though, in the context of the Bus Stop, I a deliberate, stylistic choice. These characters exist not as individuals, They stand still together. They act shocked together. And they lean back together. So it only makes sense they run away together. Out of frame... Never to be seen again... &quot;I must go now. My planet needs me.&quot; Our investigation into the Simpsons' Missing I hope you enjoyed this look into the show's A big thank you to the crew members and fans Their archival efforts cannot be overstated. You might be happy to learn other animated own No-No sheet equivalents floating around When it comes to the Bus Stop Bunch, it's that break the rules. But as we've learned in animation: nothing Every step, every blink, every line is deliberate. It takes the talents of many people to produce Rules exist for consistency, and higher-quality And every once in a while, it's okay to break To quote Matt Groening one last time: artists, designers, and animators could make &quot;But I've rarely followed those rules myself.&quot; &quot;I draw by instinct, and that's how I originally &quot;Without any rules in mind.&quot; Appearing in just 10 Simpsons episodes, the the corner, yet unforgettable once you notice. A coffee stain on a drawing.