We are starting a 2 night 3 day camping trip. Hello everyone! This time we are going to A campsite located in Yangyang, Gangwon-do, Korea, surrounded by mountains and a clear river. We have arrived at the campsite. Let's take a look around and start pitching. There's a river flowing right below the campsite. There's a lot of rain forecast for the next 2 days of camping. I'll pitch the tent quickly before it rains. The tent we're using this time is the Coody Familia Air Tent. I also brought a shelter. Now that the weather is not so hot, We will connect the shelter and use it more widely. It is expected to rain a lot, so let's install urethane windows. Now, we will continue with the interior settings. Air bed It is not so hot, but it is expected to rain a lot, so we brought the air conditioner to get rid of the humidity. It's finally starting to rain. Gee6 Graphene Warmer 2024 Wiselab sent me an electric camping mat (graphene warmer). It's still summer, but it's cold in Yangyang, Gangwon-do, where the temperature drops to around 20 degrees in the morning. So I think I'll use this electric mat very usefully! I'll put it in my sleeping bag and turn it on in the evening. Coco~ Oh my, it's pretty~ It started to rain heavily. There's a pretty river right behind the campsite. Wow~ It's deep in some places~ It's good. It's so good. The water is so clear and cool and the height is just right, so it seems like a great place to play! I'll come back to play when the rain stops. Now, I'll connect the shelter to the tent. I'll fix the tent by driving pegs into the ground so that the connection part doesn't flap. I'll also turn on the lights. I'll use the shelter as a kitchen. It's raining continuously. Isn't the sound of rain amazing, Coco? I have to touch Coco a lot so she doesn't get bored :) Okay~ Now the inside of the tent is a bit cozy. Shall we take a look at the rainy scenery? I brought the screen. I'm going to watch a movie and play games at night. It's raining hard now and it'll get dark soon, so I'm going to have dinner early. Tonight's menu is Grilled beef / pork intestines I brought a grill to grill as much as I want. I'm going to season and marinate the chives. I brought shiitake mushrooms because they taste good when grilled together. I'm going to chop the green onions and Cheongyang peppers and add them to the barbecue sauce. I'm also going to chop the Cheongyang chili pepper. I'm going to cut the chives into bite-size pieces. I brought some sweet pumpkin to share as a snack. Wow~ So pretty. I think the yellow one would be really tasty. I'll steam it in a pot. I'll make some barbecue sauce. 1 tbsp minced garlic 1 tbsp peanut butter Half a can of ssamjang Appropriate amount of cider Mix well. I'll also try seasoning the sliced chives. Soy sauce Sugar Garlic Red pepper powder Sesame oil Vinegar It's well-cooked. We'll start by grilling the beef intestines. Coco ate the food first. I'll give Coco the pumpkin as a snack. Coco eats the pumpkin well as a snack. Today's drink is refreshing makgeolli. Ah, this is the life! The chewy and savory taste of the tripe and the salty, spicy, and savory taste of the barbecue sauce! This time, let's grill pork intestines (makchang). Wow~ This looks really delicious. I like this makchang chewy and more delicious. Mmm~ The mushrooms are delicious too. The mushrooms taste like makchang. The river has risen a lot. Current temperature 24 / 75.2 We had a delicious dinner and now we're going to eat some snacks and watch a movie. I connected the auxiliary battery to the electric mat and turned it on in advance. It's warm! The weather is getting cooler now. Cloudy and rainy. 21 / 69.8 Coco, let's go to sleep now~ I think I'll sleep well thanks to the electric blanket, which is warm and fluffy. The next morning. Coco. Should I go in the water? The rain that had been falling all night has stopped for a while. I came down to the river to play in the water before the rain started again. The rain stopped and the water flow is weak, so it's peaceful and nice :) Looks like Coco is feeling cool too. We're drifting along with the current, going down and then coming back up again. Shall we take a look under the water? I can see the fish that I couldn't see outside. I'll play a little more and then go. We're back to the tent. It got chilly after playing in the water, so I'll quickly turn on the electric blanket. You can adjust the temperature in 3 steps with this button. I gave it to Coco. :) Isn't it warm, Coco? Coco is sleepy because it's warm. It started to rain again. I'm going to go buy ice at the campground store and take a look around the campground. I'm going to make red bean shaved ice with the ice I bought at the store. First, I'll grind the ice with the shaved ice machine. Now, I'll put various toppings on the ice. Red Beans Bingsu Jelly Bingsu Rice Cake Condensed Milk Chocolate Syrup Roasted Soybean Powder Coco, you eat snacks too~ Eat donuts too. Blow away the last of the heat with a cool and sweet snack~! This is the moment when all the stress from this particularly hot summer disappears. I keep getting bitten by mosquitoes, so I'm burning mosquito coils. Now, I'm going to put up lights all over the tent to brighten up the inside for dinner. Tonight's menu is chili shrimp and oyster blade steak. Wow~ The shrimp are big. Onion Cheongyang pepper Add the chopped onion, pepper, garlic, and butter to the pan and stir-fry. When the garlic turns golden brown, add the thawed shrimp. This looks really delicious! Sugar Red pepper powder Soy sauce Vinegar Ketchup Now stir-fry over high heat until the seasoning is well absorbed and it's done. Pepper Parsley Powder The chili shrimp is done, now all that's left is to grill the steak. Steak Garnish (Asparagus, Sweet Pumpkin, Shiitake Mushrooms) Pineapple for Sauce Coco~ I'll grill some meat for you~ Before grilling the steak, I'll grill some meat for Coco first. I'll let it cool down. Add butter and minced garlic to the pan. Now I'm going to grill the steak. I'm going to make a savory sauce, so I'll season the meat lightly later. I'm also going to make a simple salad. Caesar dressing I'm also going to grill the shiitake mushrooms and asparagus. (Did you forget my food..?) I'm going to grill more mushrooms. A little salt and pepper. Now that the meat is cooked, I'm going to take it out and make the sauce. Add pineapple to the butter oil that the meat was grilled in. I'm going to make steak sauce by adding yakiniku sauce. Delicious! Once the sauce has reduced a bit, I'll add onion slices. Now, let's cut the meat into bite-size pieces and plate it. To finish, add lots of garlic flakes. Coco~ Let's eat~ Now~ You can't have alcohol with this kind of dish, right!? This is Gray Whale Gin that goes so well with today's dish. (This video includes product sponsorship from Good Hunting International.) We'll make a gin and tonic with Fever Tree Premium Tonic Water and lime juice. Gray Whale Gin is a distilled liquor GIN made by a distillery in California, USA, with the purpose of protecting the ocean and saving endangered whales. This is an American premium GIN distilled 8 times or more with kelp, almond, mint, juniper berry, and fir on a lime base. Oh, it smells refreshing! I'll put in gin and tonic water in a 2:1 ratio. Add a little lime juice as well. Good Hunting International Co., Ltd. is the GIN importer of excellent GIN brands that can be tasted in famous hotel lounges such as GIN SUL, Shilla Hotel, Intercontinental Hotel, Chosun Hotel, Parnas, Mondrian Hotel, etc. I will enjoy it! It's delicious! The chili shrimp is so delicious!! I'm having a bite of sweet, nutty, and savory steak along with sweet, sour, and spicy chili shrimp. And then I'll take a sip of gin and tonic! Oh~ Refreshing taste! Oh my, so pretty! Sit down~ Hand~ Hand~ Right~ Nose~ Right~ Nose~ Right~ :) High five! Right! Now let's play some thrilling games. (Rise of the Tomb Raider) Jonah: No one is going. - No one's going over that mountain right now. Lara: The lost city's over there. Jonah: Just a little bit more! - Look at the view. Lara. Jonah: Grab my hand! Jonah: The wind is crazy! Lara: But we have to keep going! Lara: Damn it! I tripped a little. - It's okay. Lara: I'm going to cross over there! Jonah: Yeah, grab my hand! Jonah: Got it! Jonah: Oh my God! Jonah: Can we really find the lost city? Jonah: What do we do now? Lara: We're here, Jonah. Lara: We have to crawl up from here. Jonah: Careful. The ice might fall! Lara: Okay, are you ready? Jonah: Of course! :) Jonah: I'm going to hold on here! Lara: I can! Jonah: This is crazy, I can't jump! Lara: Stay there! I'll hang the rope from above! Lara: Jonah! I did it! - I see the ruins! Jonah: Got it! Lara! Are you okay!? I woke up to the sound of sudden heavy rain. I don't think I can sleep anymore, so I'm going to enjoy the sound of rain. Coco is here too~? Ha~ It's cool and nice. It's cold because it rains a lot in the morning. The cat is here. I guess the cat came here to avoid the rain. It's light and soft, so it's great to lightly drape over like a blanket. The morning is bright. I'm leaving now to get up and go home~! I'm leaving now after a relaxing stay in this cool place with fresh air and clear water. Thank you for watching until the end.