You probably have lots of folders and contain lots of valuable information. available to people throughout your organization? called Agents in SharePoint, which is available folders, or files, and with just a few clicks then you can share it, say, for example, in questions. It's really easy to set up, so let's first off, we need to get to SharePoint. Log corner, let's click on the Waffle icon, or you'll see all of your different apps. Let's SharePoint homepage, and here you can get back to to the site that you would like to add an agent Company Hub. We use this site to store all of like our recipes, our employee handbook, prices, Every SharePoint site now comes with a pre-made on this SharePoint site. Let's test this out. In Copilot icon. This opens up the Copilot pane over in Outlook, Word, Excel, or PowerPoint, this I have some example prompts that I could start where I can ask a question about this SharePoint question in mind for a long time about the Kevin get each week? I know there's a document somewhere Copilot can pull that out. In the bottom right, amazing benefit! Here, it looks like each employee cookies per week. That must be why our employee you should try this, preferably with Kevin Cookie at the end, we see a citation for where it this number, it tells me that it found it in the Hands deck that management shared with employees. specific SharePoint site and all of the files scope your interaction with the AI to multiple or just individual files. To do that, we can left-hand side, let's click into documents. This the different files that I have stored on this from customers asking us about the ingredients in and sometimes they ask about order status. Our questions, so I'd like to see if maybe I could that way we could help the staff and make them be relevant is, here I have cookie recipes, let I have a price list, and I also have status on You can select up to 20 different items, and with more coming soon. To create an agent, there select your files, up on top, you can click or alternatively, simply go down to one of the three dots, and right here, you'll also see an And look at that! We now have an agent. Like I we probably want to make a few tweaks. If Documents Agent. That's not very descriptive. In this agent, let's click on this edit button. This identity, the sources, and the behavior. Let's a better name. Right here, I'm going to call it we can also set an image for this agent. Let's and cookies. I'll double click on that, and that's I can also describe this agent, and what the a helpful virtual assistant that quickly let's now switch into sources. Within sources, let's say you also want to include another and you could also include additional files. I already selected. Up on top, let's switch into screen, you can see an example of what this agent like to modify the welcome message as well as some I can do that. Right here, I'll type in a change some of the starter prompts. For example, of our cookies have nuts? And what's the status I can also type in instructions for the agent. about the content in the selected files. That tone. We're a cookie company, and we don't let's use a casual tone. That makes a you also have the option to add advanced for example, that you want to connect to your you can do that. That's beyond the scope of this the bottom, let's click on save. Then, in the top view. Over on the right-hand side, we can now If you click on this dropdown, you can see all Let's start by clicking on the starter prompt. Do and that populates a text field down below. Our peanut butter cookies have nuts in them. If noticed that there's now a new file. Right here, and it's a .agent file. This behaves like can apply different policies. You can set click on this dropdown, and you have all the same Now, I don't know if that many of our retail within SharePoint, but I do know they're going be able to interact with this agent directly I can click on the Share icon, and here, I over here in the right-hand side pane, I'll click different actions, and here, I can copy a link the link's been copied. Let's now head over to new group chat. Down below, I'll type in a message created. Here, it recognizes the agent, and in Right up above, we can see the agent. Let me the agent to this chat, down below, anyone can simply type in the at symbol, just like you would start typing in the name of the agent. And here, click on this, and now, I can type in my question to Alex Martin delivered? And over here, let's the really cool thing is it pulls information and now, everyone on the whole team has access to document where it found the answer. All right, me know in the comments if you're planning to I could have an agent reply to all the comments watch more videos like this one, please consider