Water? Come on Do you want water? Do you want water? No, thanks Do you want water? No Do you want water? No Nice Great Come on Shen Hou Give me one Thanks Hey Excuse me You're blocking my view The water's not free How much? 3 yuan 3 yuan? It costs 2 yuan in the supermarket Why you ask for 3 yuan? What a profiteer I bring it here which saved your energy Why don't you say in advance? How can you be like this? You are a profiteer I don't care I won't pay It's unreasonable for you to drink water but don't pay Go away or I'll call the teacher Forget it It's not easy for her The supermarket is far from here 1 yuan for her effort What effort? Who's that girl? Which one? The one who's selling water Why should I pay for you? I won't pay Her name is Yan... Yan Xiaochen She majors in Finance and lives with Wu Qianqian Okay, fine then spit out the water you drank What can you do? Pay the water or spit it out Hurry How many bottles left? I'll take them all I still have 3 boxes Bring them for me Thank you Everybody Shen Hou bought water for you Come get it Great Thank you What a nice person Thank you Great Thank you Thank you Give me one Give me one, thanks Here you are I want one Thank you Here you are Give me the money Thank you Thanks, Shen Hou Here Thank you Thanks, Shen Hou How much? Let's label this curve Hou Since we met you haven't been in relationships It's already the last year in university you are still single You are a coward You don't have the courage You can't deal with women According to what you know about me what am I afraid to do? I'm only not interested in these girls I know you too well You are afraid How about we have a bet? For what? For whether you dare to ask girls out for meals If you can't you have to call me Father What if I can I will call you Father Boring Then how about this? If you can for three days I will do whatever you ask me Okay This is interesting Okay, then I'll choose one Go ahead That one You see? The one who sells water Yan Xiaochen Ask her for a meal Go ahead Go This long-term supply curve Pay attention everyone I won't make a role call today So many people are absent Go ahead or you have to call me Father Go ahead Wait I'm not afraid Take this for me Go He really goes You call me? Right What do you want? I want to treat you a meal Do you know who I am? Yan Xiaochen of Finance Department Are you betting? Sorry, I It's okay Last time you bought my water Now we call it even I can really treat you a meal It's always you who refuse others What do you think? How does it feel to be rejected for the first time? What are you talking about? The thing is fake but the feeling is real Tell you what Yan Xiaochen is not hard to chase Just tell her you are rich Can you say something good? Everyone's bad in your eyes I am seriously teaching you, okay? What? What are you thinking? How about you make a demonstration? How? Chase after Yan Xiaochen? No way She's not my type No Don't you like Guo Meihui of English department? That one, okay? For 3 days I will do whatever you say Don't you like her? Chase after her I'm helping you You help you Really? What do you mean? School opens again Welcome all the students You shock me You do so many things I can see you everywhere Hard work makes one rich Okay Where is Shen Hou? Shen Hou Why do you mention him? Tell you what Don't think about him You are not his type Nice, Zhao Yuhuan Of course Give me this Burnt? Here Don't move Are you okay? Is it painful? I'm okay So nice Amazing Sorry I have a phone call Where are you going? I have a phone call Hello What? What do you mean? She stands me up, right? Yan Xiaochen Shen Hou Profess affection to Shen Hou Right I want to tell Shen Hou I like him Don't go Don't go All right I gotta go What happened? What happened? She said she likes me Who? Yan Xiaochen Go away You two Go Hey Clean it up Just leave it here Leave it here? The security staff will catch you How much did you spend? It's none of your business Clean it up I don't care What are you doing? Isn't the food good? What day is it today? It's Friday It's been three days What's wrong? What are you talking about? Where has she been? Yan Xiaochen? How do I know? Go find her yourself I did She asked for a leave Then go to the girls' dormitory to wait for her That's girls' dormitory I didn't ask you to go inside I will treat you Where are you going? You really go You really like her Why are you here? I want to ask you whether your words count? Yes Then be my girlfriend Did you hear that? Why? The yesterday's Right Didn't you say you like me? So we have to be together? Really? Looks like it's real Two people must be together if like each other? I don't know Two people must be together if like each other? Of course Why not? Two people must be together if they like each other? Her words are so hard to understand That's right She doesn't want you to understand I think she still remembers last time we bet on her Now she's fooling you Do you have any advice? Fool her Chase after her Are you out of your mind? Do you really like her? What? Is there any problems? Then tell me why do you like her? I don't know Eh It feels good He's out of his mind He's completely crazy Be serious You want to chase her then find out what does she need Lost again Xiaochen Buy some hairy crabs and send to room 208 Be quick You're here Here Here Thank you Do you want this? No, I'm good What does he mean? Yan Xiaochen The exam is forthcoming I know you always get good grades Can you tutor me? How? How do you charge? Are you sure this one will be tested tomorrow? Look at him Where's Hou? There's something on his face Send him messages Right I called you Why didn't you answer the phone? I ordered boiled fish for you It's already cold Right Now people cheat in this way? Others can hardly tell Really Clean it up Why are you still here? The evening self-study will start soon Go and have dinner Okay Don't move It's dazzling It's okay It's getting dark What? Nothing Wait a minute I'm leaving Don't you clean it? What a fool Inform the family Call your mother to pick you It's serious I can't manage this Look at him Shen Hou Tell you what His photo has been spread over the forum He's adorable Tell you what the characters on his face is so cute I wonder who wrote it Do you think he has a girlfriend? Yan Xiaochen? Hi I told you but you didn't tell me It's unfair It seems you didn't learn well In the first chapter of Public Finance Fairness and efficiency Fairness is product being distributed in line with human ethical and moral standards Obviously we don't have this problem According to what you said I didn't learn due to your bad teaching Besides this afternoon you fell asleep How to count this? How about I share a half with you? What you owe me needs to pay back Remember? Remember Now it's fair By the way Have a candy when you are unhappy You are welcome You are welcome I'm leaving Xiaoxiao We decide to give you this lucky coin You take the college entrance Hope this coin will bring you luck Take this and get good grades Okay? It's mine now My dad treats me so well You are taking your dad's luck Our daughter with this lucky coin will definitely succeed in exams Sure Happy new year Happy new year Good luck That's the situation and problem as I told you I've chosen the place But in terms of decoration you grils are better Help me with this When? Tonight So urgent You need a great quantity I can't make it in such a hurry Eh How about you offer more money? I ask some people to help Just a small amount of money for you Okay, that's the only solution Transfer to me quickly Okay, bye Hello Xiaochen Don't forget to tutor me today I'm not in school Where are you? Don't be late I may be late Sir 79 yuan in total Do you need a bag? Yes please I'll talk to you later She's coming Hou She's coming Hide Hide yourself She's coming Throw it Yan Xiaochen I like you Be my girlfriend Are you betting with others again? Not this time These days I found you are really a very special girl I really have a crush on you Yan Xiaochen Be my girlfriend This time I'm really serious Besides two people like each other should be together Say something Are you willing to? Yes What did you say? I said yes Yes Yes Then now Perfectly matched now What should we do? I I have to get the express delivery I'm going to the dormitory Watch out Watch out Dad Dad Dad Xiaoxiao Dad will sent you to your favorite college and do whatever you like If you don't return the money I will destroy your house Rogue Liu Qingfang If you still play cards and lose money, I'll leave you alone Hello You've run out of money again? I see Hello Yan Xiaochen I have something to do I want to change the shift with you You get the overtime pay No problem I'll come right now I arrived I'm so sorry I have to work an extra shift I'll be right there I'm so sorry Sorry What took you so long? I've waited for more than 2 hours I'm so sorry I know It's because of the work I don't mean to keep you waiting Why are you always like this? Because this part-time job is important for me Do you have any difficulties? Tell me if you do Never mind Let's go Leave it to me Let me do it Eh Tomorrow afternoon we have a basketball match with your department You have to arrive on time and see how your boyfriend beat the ex-champion By the time you send some water and everyone will admire us They're coming Shen Hou Finance department Come on Finance department Finance department Shen Hou What are you doing? Shen Hou The game is starting soon come now or don't come Shen Hou Shen Hou Come on Come on Come on Shen Hou Finance department Keep up Pass to me Don't force yourself Go Shen Hou is the best Defend Pass Nice Go Hurry Shen Hou Move Go Go Run Defend Give me Come on Pass the ball Here What are you doing? Do you know how to play? Stop fighting What? Stop fighting What are you doing? The game is over I announce the winner is finance department We won We won Brilliant Brilliant Succeed Great Sorry The number you dialed is power off Why are you here? I came to see you. The doorman So I was waiting for you here. How long have you been waiting? Not long. Just two hours. Tell me. Why did you stand me up this time? Today I... Enough. Stop. I can almost guess what you Put other things aside. But... Can you not switch your phone off again? Do you know how worried I was I didn't mean to. My phone's broken. I couldn't switch it on. Your phone's broken? Fine. You always have your reason. But I'm really angry this time. I was so angry. I lost the game. Tell me, how are you gonna make it up to me? I bought two movie tickets for tomorrow. I don't have school tomorrow Let's watch a movie then. Fine. I'll be up. Smile for me. I'm leaving. Sorry I'm late. Has it started? It's okay. It just started ten minutes ago. We still got time. Let's go. &quot;The popular and the classic interwine. Great movie. I don't know if it's because &quot;Welcome to East China Voice.&quot; Sorry you missed the beginning because of me. Actually, I think it doesn't matter What matters is that we watched it together. &quot;It's wonderfully complicated indeed.&quot; We present to you the theme song Now you look like a girlfriend. What do you think a girlfriend should be like? I don't know what to say. In a word, she should listen to me more. You did great. If you spend a little more time Time to go. Wait a minute. For you. I'll get my phone repaired and keep using it. Take it. In case... In case I would be the one getting worried. But it cost a lot. I really can't. Then... Then I'll lend it to you. By the way, remember to text me. And if you got no time, I'll see you instead. See you. Good runner. Gentlemen It's two hundred and seventy-six yuan in total. Do you need a bag? Yes. Two cents a bag. Plastic bag not for free? This is a flat fee. What flat fee? I bought so many things before. The bags are free. Just give me one. Sorry, in our shop, bags are not free. What a joke. Charge money for plastic bags? I have never heard of it. I... You are a liar. Or your shop is fraudulent. Malicious charges. I want to see your store manager. I need a talk. What are you pointing at? Mind your behavior. Who are you? What are you doing? I am her boyfriend. What's wrong? Boyfriend. You... This is the way your store treats customers? Ok, I tell you. I today, today. Don't touch me. I will call the consumer association. I will complain. Your store will close down. You know? Gentleman. Sorry. You are bullying me. Calm down. Calm down. Yan Xiaochen. You want to be fired? What are you shouting? It's not her fault. Only you can shout? I can shout, too, let me tell you. Complain, right? I can... I am a customer. The customer is God, you know? Sorry... You can't bully me just because you are tall. So what? You can't bully me. Hit me, I dare you. Sorry. Sorry. Manager. Sorry. It's not your fault. Why are you apologizing to them? Look. Take a look. What kind of employee did you hire? He's going to hit me, do you know? I know, you calm down. So sorry. What a salesclerk. Do you know decorum? Sorry, sir. Yan Xiaochen. You are fired. No, manager. I can explain. It's... -Why bother? Just go. Just go. You calm down. Can you stop talking? Calm down... Look at your employee. I'll give you the plastic bag for free. It's free. Don't be angry. You calm down, sir. She has been fired. She wants to charge me money, you know? I know. How's it? Am I cool just now? You messed it up, you know? He almost poked that finger... To your face. Then you can't yell at him. Why are you so impulsive? I just want to protect you. I lose my job and I even won't get paid, you know? You quarrel with me. Just for that little salary. How much? I can give you. What's wrong? Are you humiliating me? I did not mean that. I mean. You take my money. It's better than working here. What's wrong with my job? I work. I earn a living myself. I can spend at ease, how about you? I... I just care about you. Want to protect you from being bullied. How can you say that to me? Yan Xiaochen. You've gone a bit too far. I am your boyfriend. Not as important as your job? Who do you see? Liu Xinhui. Awesome. Zhao Yuhuan. What are you doing? Focus. People say. you only have seven seconds of memory. What does that mean? Means that you don't hold grudges. Like me. Not to mention. I'm a big man. I am tough. Maybe I should text her. Tell her what I want to say. No? Well... I can go to see her directly. I'll listen to everything she says. That's it. Bye. Yan Xiaochen. I have something to tell you. I have to go to work. Don't leave. Just a few minutes. It's my fault last time. I just want to spend more time with you. You are working during the day. I text you tonight. Often, you give no reply. I figured it out. It's my fault. My fault. I didn't give enough sense of security to you. Don't work in the future. I can support you. You still don't understand. I understand. We are in college now, right? After I find a job I will make money to support you. I don't think you should push yourself so hard. Actually, it's not a question of We just have totally different ideas. What do you mean? We are peers. What's the difference in values? You don't understand. Yan Xiaochen. You don't want to talk to me, right? Ok. Let's break up. Ok. Let's break up. Anything else? Let me go. Yan Xiaochen. Goodbye. Goodbye. Look at that man He's so hot Yeah, how can he become her boyfriend Our canteen is here Our canteen was decided by a famous designer It has upper and lower floors which can an accommodate a thousand people at the same time There is no restaurant bigger and So I will invite you to eat here good Even the soup of the spicy hot pot in our school Is drinkable There are many kinds of pastries in this stall Ramen, stewed noodles and sliced noodles Dumpling, wonton and scallion pancake There is a spicy hot pot here If you like spicy food then it is a good choice for you They also have Brazilian barbecue and kebab There are all kinds of exquisite side dishes The meat and vegetables match well look British Fried Fish Chops Japanese sushi rolls if you have a habit of eating dessert after a meal Then there are some fresh fruits here yogurt There are also Cantonese refreshments By the way It has free soup over there Unlimited refills The flavors of the dishes are from the north and the south as well as the west and the east There are all kinds of Chinese and Western food And we have various barbecues and various soups for you to choose Here we have whatever you want to eat It really has all kinds of soups here and the dining environment is also very warm Don't you mind Why should I mind Then what do you want to eat Order whatever you want to eat I'm easy okay Then you go find a place to sit Let me order okay I haven't eaten in the cafeteria for a long time It seems that I was back to school days again thanks Cheng Zhiyuan Where are you? I'm looking for you What's up You mean I can't bother you If you don't have problems then why you bother me Who is the man eating with you in the cafeteria today Isn't he your new boyfriend We just broke up It really surprised me that you find It was so difficult for me to ask you He is not your boyfriend How can you have lunch with him as long as he asked you out How about we also hang out together tomorrow no How can you reject going out with me while eating with another man Please save me some face Don't you start a new relationship before I start it Why Because it was you who expressed love first You really don't think about it anymore? This opportunity for postgraduate Many students in the department are applying for it But only your grades and conditions are the most suitable I am already hunting for a job What a pity Thank you Mr. Wang Qianqian Is anyone here Xiaochen hasn't come yet She may need to do part-time job this afternoon Today the teacher will draw the focus one the exam it has no front seat here I will just sit here Don't mess around This seat is reserved for others Yan Xiaochen Here here Come and sit That seat is broken Sit here Why are you unwilling to sit with me? We have broken up Isn't it awkward to sit together? What's so embarrassing about breaking up? The reason now we can be like ordinary friends is because we have broken up There's no need to be embarrassed Unless you have something you Or... what You can only sit here The teacher is coming, sit down quickly Why not sit in the last row? you guess I'm not used to it that so many students are here today All right In order to keep the students who seldom come here to have a lesson I will give a lesson for an hour first I will set aside half an hour for you to draw the focus on the Will we go find Monkey later? I don't want to stay with that rich boy so close I will decide that according to the situation I'm so sleepy You really don't remember why you sit here? You and Shen Hou are back together? You say what should I reply to this? Or You are not willing to boring These are the focus of our exam I hope you can review them carefully You are about to graduate I believe no one wants to fail to get the graduation certificate because of failing in my exam We understand that I wish you all pass the exam successfully Thank you, Sir Thank you, Sir The class is finished Thank you, Sir Go go go Follow up quickly Go Something happened Didn't you say you will decide This is the situation What's the situation Where are you going quick Yan Xiaochen Wait a minute I have something to ask you I heard that you refused the opportunity What's wrong Then you are planning to find a job If you're really planning to look for a job I suggested that you should work less now Because from now on Job fairs of major companies are all coming to school one after another Considering that the students are all having class in the morning so some job fairs will be arranged in the evening I know you didn't expect this These are the time and location of the company job fair and the company's name What do you mean what You are the one who wanted to break up with me What do you mean by doing these now? you guess I don't want to guess And I just want to dig a hole for you to jump then maybe you will be willing Are you kidding? I am serious You make a joke when you want to make a joke You become serious when you want to be serious You treat love like a joke Joke? I let you do whatever you want when we were together I cooperated everything with you What you are looking at? You were so kind to that man that day as well as the foreigner who teaches English You were smiling all the time And your boss You are so compliant with him But why are you so stubborn to me That's none of your business Are you my boss? I will smile to whom exchanges resources with me I am kind to the person Who is my boss fine You treat me as your boss from now on You listen to me about everything and you can make a price at your will Let me make the price right My salary is twenty yuan per hour if I like the job My salary is two hundred yuan Two hundred is two hundred What about we make the salary 30,000 a month Then I ask you Not to eat with any bad guys and also not to become others' girlfriend in advance deal you just want to save face okay I'll play this face-saving drama with you since your money is enough deal but I'm not doing it for my own face Bye-Bye How much did he just say Thirty thousand He overpaid it Brother, you are crazy You gave her Thirty thousand Are you mad That's right It'd be better if you invite us for a meal Only fools wouldn't agree to that no what do you think Beauty Lend me some pocket money I don't have pocket money I have Alipay You can transfer money to me I don't use Alipay What about Yu'E Bao What is that Stop talking Give me your phone Hello We are closed I'm looking for someone. Who are you looking for Yan Xiaochen She just left What's wrong Who are you Her boy friend back door thank you hurry up Brother I really don't have Little girl Do you dare to bully her Do you dare to bully her Please don't hit me stop fighting What happened Shen Hou Go go go Call the police call the police Go go quickly Hello is there 110? Yan Xiaochen I just saved you Shouldn't you say thank you I can handle this Even if you didn't show up How powerful you are Do you want me to spray you? Wait a minute what Hold This is your work cloth From now on I am your boss You should do whatever I ask you to do And you can't do whatever I ask you not to do In short You have to listen to me Then What do you want me to do for you I want you to be my girlfriend bye I will wait for you by the school lake at half past ten in the morning If you are late for on minute then Remember to put on work clothes If I remember correctly We are in a relationship now Then I don't need to remind you of the distance between a couple By the way If you wanna hold my hand, then just tell me Thanks for your reminder I almost forgot Careful They are back together What's up I feel like we missed a hundred million while we were playing basketball for a few minutes The monkey lost ten thousands, right? Look I can't believe my eyes Why are they together again What's the situation with them who knows Boss can you let me go Your palms are sweaty There is a detailed introduction on this list Okay good You can learn more about it Hello Please take a look thanks Why are you going to do later Of course it's private time after I finish my job It's none of your business It should be working hours as long as you are in school I'm going to the job fair Don't tell me you are going So At least you should wear a formal clothes You don't know that those financial workers judge people according to people's appearance you I have strength And not everyone will judge you according to your appearance Bey I must go You never turn back until knocking into the wall I have strength Let me see your strength Yan Xiaochen No one wants you Don't you know that You should wear a formal clothes You know where you can buy a cheap formal clothes with high quality If you want to buy the one with high quality then go to the shopping mall to buy it But if you want to buy a I have no idea where you can buy it then I told you that I would take you to go shopping The goods here are very expensive Which one do you think I can afford What about this Let me be your shopping guide I promise to help you choose the cheap and nice things Do you know what I want to buy I'm sure I can help you choose the most suitable for you welcome We just take a look here Okay Come here Miss check this out Do you like it You come see this Sir you have a good taste No no no no This is too expensive You've earned thirty thousand from me You think I don't have two thousand yuan But You can try if you like it We have a 30% discount here 30% discount Please try it Then I'll try this one This way please It looks great on you Really great Pants' length is also suitable Pick two more Okay How much Five hundred and ninety-nine So cheap Their shop has a 30% discount 30% discount No no no Yes Yes Yes 30% discount This is good Your clothes look good Really good I tell you The store you visited last time has 30% discount Miss Which one do you like between the two I want this one okay This one has 30% discount so it is five hundred and ninety-nine Swipe Why don't you buy more clothes the price is so low today thanks Let me do this Welcome next time Come here come here let me tell you It has a 30% discount here Hurry up The one you like welcome Let's do more shopping I can call it a day, right I saved you so much money and I also helped you choose the right clothes Anyway I'm your boss and benefactor So what do you want At least You should invite me to eat something delicious What do you want to eat At least you should invite me for a sea, land and air feast okay Hello Ok I got it No matter how much you lose Put it on my tab I must hang up This is what you called Sea, Land and Air Feast Chick runs on the land Seafood swims in the sea Mineral water comes from air Sea, land and air You really do everything to save money How can you say something that's against your conscience Smells good It should taste good Don't you eat them Since it is for me to eat It'd be a big loss if I don't eat them This is mine It's all mine It's all yours Eat Thick Soup Seafood Noodles Stewed Chicken Noodles with Mushrooms I heard that you are going abroad what you don't want me to go You have your choice It has nothing to do with me So if you won't miss me no matter whether I go or not then why do you ask me? I just think that It's a pity that I lost an opportunity to make money I'll get a bottle of mineral water I also want another bottle What are you looking at your eyelashes are long Then I will let you see them more clearly Not only you can watch them but also you can touch them What are you doing You don't usually laugh When I look you at this way I think you look pretty Why don't you love to laugh Because there is nothing laughable how come You must haven't come across things that make you happy Have you heard a word God doesn't give you what you want It's not because you deserve something better It's because You don't deserve it at all Who said that I will bring back your smile now I haven't finished the noodles yet So cute It is coming down The fish is greatly huge Is that one? Here come the small fishes Wonderful Look, the ones ahead are more prretty Look ahead Five minutes later Our mermaid show is going to be performed Please move your steps to the deep sea exhibition We hope you have a good time We have the longest subsea tunnel in the world In our museum You will be amazed at the graceful gesture of the jellyfish Mermaid Look Where? I saw it Yes it is So wonderful It's awsome This mermaid is a man? How come? Why is a man? Yes, it is OMG That is the feeling when dream comes true I can sense my happiness indeed But it seems that I'm hanging in the air approaching the sun excitedly while fearing fall down abruptly We are seperated by the glass screen which seperates us from two different worlds Maybe he will leave me one day just like my dad In the world, all lovely things will fade away one day Thank you This is the reward for your pretty smile Some accidents on the candy It is definitely squashed Why do you always have candy? Because I want you to be sweet all the time when we're together Don't you eat? No How is it? Is it sweet?