You have spirit guides who are yet aware of their presence. And in this video, you're going to learn And so it takes a tuning your awareness. Within attuning to the energy planes, to receive the guidance, the warmth, the So the way this is going to work is then we'll actually go through them and So that we can together connect with our and love who are available to support. To assess, to guide you. It just takes tuning in. So the first step is to set the Now, this is something that you may be Central, especially when you're first of higher guidance with the angels and galactic family or your ancestors, wanting to connect to, it benefits action to differentiate this moment. As sacred as the time where you're inward, away from the external and the higher realms of spirit. So you can make contact. So this could be something as simple as defusing an essential oil, or just finding All around. And then the second step is to Breathe and focus on your breath. Shift your awareness within. Relax your body. You can go through the different feet, your calves, your abdomen, and directing your awareness. Within and as you move your awareness may have about what it's like to connect Because while it will be Different than you expect. And it may be subtle at first, that subtle experience of contact, And so let go of expectations. Relax, open your heart and enter in. Step three is to find your central column. Of light. And so the way this is done is So you're in this relaxed, centered state from your heart, from your mind, awareness down through your root chakra, which is. Opens and allows your attention, your grounding to the earth below you feel all of it is feel the light at the are a part of, that you are one with. And that is one with all. And then let that light from the upward up in through your root chakra, solar plexus, your heart, your throat, crown, opening your crown chakra. You can literally say, I now open Your energy streaming op in a crystalline at the top of your head, blossoming Reaching out, lifting up into the light your crown, and then step number four, So you can say something like, I now angels ascended masters of the highest answer in and connect with me directly. And so it ends here. You could call for a specific ascended attuned to feel a resonance with. You could call in your galactic the highest Christ of light. Connect with me now my team of light, who And then step number five Return to an inner focus, a awareness, diffuse awareness. So you're not searching, you're You're just relaxed and aware As your spirit guides, And again, when you're first spirit, the contact is very subtle. It may simply feel like a warrant. A lightness, a presence, or you visual, some sort of sensation, you The more you practice this, the the more you sense and honor and The more that experience. Deepens and becomes richer and becomes It takes developing an opening. Your interdimensional. Your inner subtle psychic senses. So let's go through this practice all this moment right here now, make contact your team in spirit who is available Now. Okay. To begin, let's now declare this moment Shut the door if you need to switch your to direct your attention, your awareness surrounded with divine light and love. Tune in. To the light all around. As you direct your awareness Breathe, relax, and let go. Let go of whatever's been happening Let go of any sounds or distractions tuning in to the center of your chest. Your heart chakra, letting light that is all around you. Breathe in light, breathe in, breathe Breathe in and tune your awareness inward. Breathe out and begin to tune into feeling Now let your awareness flow down. Grounding down in a Let your awareness float down to feet, flowing down, all the way to the where you connect with an incredible light glowing energy, but you are a part of it. And that is connected to all of it, is of the earth stream up in through your through your root chakra, your sacral, up through your heart, your throat. Your mind's eye, the center of chakra at the top of your head. Allow your crown chakra to open and allow into the higher celestial realms, the to connect with your team and spirit. There's already immense light flowing And letting go and relaxing Opening to connect with Now speak aloud. I now call in my team of guides, of the highest Christ light. Connect with me now. Support me and becoming aware of your Relax. Allow your heart to open. Allow your awareness to relax and diffuse, Of your team in spirit reaching love, with presence, with healing. Feel into that. Receive the transmission from your Letting go of any expectation as like, be like, and just allow. Spirit to connect with you and the inner planes, connecting with And then if you're beginning to guidance do you have for me now? And listen, receive. The blessings, the guidance, the who you have made contact with, Continue to work with this practice. Just BA. And receiving the blessings of spirit. And I can assure you that it can and spirit so that in an instant you can Opening your heart, grounding to the upon your team, and receiving the the validation, the support that's From the realms of spirit who are reaching out to you now. If you would like a little extra support Check out my video on that here. Remember to ask your angels will see you in the next video. Bye for now.