When we left off in part 2 of this series, IBM control of the PC market, a market and were in serious danger of becoming just one with much higher costs and significantly The gold rush mentality that was driving explosive was so strong that even companies who had built systems were starting lines of IBM compatibles, named PC series and Tandy with the equally Commodore mostly kept its focus, insomuch capable of keeping a focus on anything, its successors, and its shiny new line of Amiga there in the PC compatible gold rush to pass But it wasn't just large and well established upstarts were also mushrooming up, such as Dell, The end result of this was that IBM's market share to 38 percent in 1987, down almost half from even more significant figure in light of the fact still included major players such as Apple that introducing the original PC, IBM was reduced to market. And there was no sign of the bleeding new compatibles coming to market that undersold By the mid 1980s the barriers to entry into the thanks to the proliferation of OEM Asian compatible white label systems, that could be who would then slap their own logo on them This cannibalization of IBM's weaknesses in IBM's control of the PC off the shelf architecture of the PC. essentially the entire architecture was available As a side note, for consistency sake I will be although it was variously known as the PC/XT the I/O Channel once it was updated to 16 bit usually called the AT bus, and then was finally the various major clone manufacturers of the late The bus is how the various pieces of a computer, communicate with each other. The IBM bus was personal computer, as every personal computer more commonly known as the S-100 bus, to the However the ISA bus was the one to meet broad compatibility with it meant that a hardware plugin As a reminder, IBM hadn't really expected this BIOS chip would prevent any cloners And illegal clones could be easily handled Sadly, the BIOS chip had not proven the obstacle was bad enough when Compaq reverse engineered it for their own clones and didn't sell it to others. engineered the BIOS for sale to anybody that tedious process of reverse engineering the BIOS that both Compaq and Phoenix Technologies' cloned But this was just half of IBM's problem. The with a certain rapidly growing company based Bill Gates, had successfully licensed MS-DOS rights to it. This enabled Microsoft to sell interested in purchasing it, and as previously Microsoft were making a fortune licensing Furthermore, Microsoft had a very strict policy out on a sale. They would do whatever it took to prices were always negotiable and one Microsoft even a price list published for MS-DOS A further annoyance to IBM was the fact that almost always had the letters "MS" and their attempts to get people to refer to IBM had to solve both problems simultaneously They needed a new hardware solution that was contracts and drooling lawyers as it took to second, they needed to come up with an operating owned and controlled, not licensed. An IBM and Microsoft out of the picture entirely. two-fold attack, they would ensure that they licensed and controlled, and would Any would-be cloner would have to come to IBM, and the hardware it ran on from them, paying a steady stream of revenue flowing into IBMs the mainframe business they had built the company Not that IBM had financial troubles yet, but it would be difficult to sell mainframe computers done just as well by a three thousand dollar PC. Additionally, if IBM felt like it, they and software at all, ensuring that only destroying the IBM compatible clone market. years later when he returned to Apple, destroying Apple's complete control of its hardware this by refusing to issue new licenses to Mac OS 8, forcing existing ones to keep using the and buying back the clone license for In the words of a 1997 Wired article: "The allowed to continue only with products for not be licensed to sell new Apple technology. the new Apple-licensed proprietary designs&quot;. clone market ceased to exist in its With the exception of a few rogue startups existence the moment they pop up on Apple's computers apart from Apple. If you want to buy of OSX, there is one company to get it from. IBM's solution to its first problem, replacing the was also a clever idea in theory. Since the there would seem to be no way of collecting any of it. But IBM had a *insert Baldrick clip of create a brand new standard, called Micro-Channel, incentive to switch to it would be the fact that This plan was the brainchild of Bill Lowe, one of PC who we met in Part 1 of this series. standard would be an entirely new line of The first one would be an upgraded version of processor instead of the somewhat crippled 8088 that it would be fairly similar hardware wise, and compatibility with existing hardware add-ons. 286 processor, a processor that Microsoft and the final one would be IBM's first 386 based model that was really just the original the other three would all solely be available models would also come with the new 3.5 inch data than the older 5 1/4 inch floppy drives found IBM also had replaced the BIOS chip that so hard to clone, with a new BIOS called the somehow be invulnerable to reverse-engineering. System/2s, or PS/2 for short, and IBM and implementing the new Micro-Channel development work with Microsoft as its junior the new operating system that would replace named OS/2. More on OS/2 in a minute. and showed off the PS/2 family. In Blue Magic: Personal Computer, a contemporary book released how the new systems were perceived at the were truly impressive" but admitting several "use most software available for IBM-compatible computer. Its Micro Channel bus was not compatible available for IBM-standard computers." and a very risky one. IBM was asking the entirety for all their power, were completely that the user had already purchased over the Today computers typically have only one or two Even further, the vast majority of computers audio, and input/output options all integrated laptops or tablets, it isn't really even an But the 1980s was a very different time for era frequently needed extensive plug-in cards on the motherboard or don't even need. A few be things like hard drive controller cards, audio MIDI cards, additional RAM cards, real time clock and many others. There were actually so many add like AST, got their start by designing and multiple expansion cards into one drop in card. expansion card that integrated six different a parallel printer port, a battery backed additional 384 kilobytes of RAM in order to max This early multi-function card catapulted and gave them the platform needed to expand into launching their own line of PC compatibles and As a side note, the 8 Bit Guy has a great I would highly recommend watching as AST was 90s personal computer market, before they rapidly With the PS/2 line and its Micro Channel years of investment and potentially thousands of of the actual computer itself. A person might spent a bunch of money on add-on cards 386 in 1986, carrying forward all of his Additionally, to add insult to injury, the new with the old standard, they also cost more. A to get most of the same features they had pay even more per card for the privilege. to push this new incompatible standard in the words of a contemporary Byte magazine technically progressive, and destined to fail due the creator of the PC standard in the first computer company in the world. If they could from a hardware perspective there would be no more PS/2 architecture and especially the Micro-Channel Any company who tried to copy it without sued into oblivion, and the licensing fees difficult if not downright impossible for While IBM's standard licensing agreement in the product's selling price, the new licensing five percent of the final selling price, adding Furthermore, IBM also had what it considered to been unable to match the frantic development new generations of computers every 12-18 months. inertia, IBM thus kept getting beat to market by with a 386 based system by almost seven months. but IBM decided to give itself a leg up and same effort. And so, the first generation of PS/2 deliberately hobbled to only half speed. in the words of Robert Cringely's Accidental Micro Channel horsepower, which would be presented would then be called Micro Channel 2." PS/2 line that was twice as fast as the allowing IBM to compensate for far lengthier no way this strategy could possibly backfire on would follow them to the brand new standard, and putting them in a position to either go out of a license to use the Micro Channel architecture. The 1987 PS/2 reveal was accompanied by the system that would be replacing Microsoft's DOS plan to regain control of the PC market. But IBM as they partnered with none other The reasons for this strange partnership are Bill Gates had heard that IBM was going to develop to pull IBM's license for MS-DOS if Microsoft Another possibility is that IBM was wary of their confidence somewhat shaken by their failed solely in-house that they had brought to market TopView is itself worthy of a full video, but for It was a shell that ran on top of MSDOS, allowing as well as giving MSDOS a basic form of open WordPerfect and work on a document while a spreadsheet. In practice however, TopView that multitasking really only worked on very light Additionally, since TopView was solely character GUI, since things like mixing graphics fonts on screen inside of a document were not A quick note: although some of my sources Wikipedia entry for TopView says that it did have So far as the user was concerned, they were still than standard MSDOS, required a more powerful user experience. TopView also certainly didn't in any way whatsoever. Windows, although in an to market in November, at least sort of looked and required 99 dollars to buy. Even still, very few copies of Windows 1.0. in a more advanced MSDOS bought Windows and A few companies, such as MicroPro, invested a lot that used TopView's abilities in much better badly burned with its failure as well. The press with reviewers such as John Dvorak labeling it In Merrill Chapman's entertaining book In Search story from when he worked for MicroPro and their word processor, Easy, at a conference. some reason shown up and taken a great deal of "Show us again how you cut and paste text," they'd They brayed as I banged on a keyboard instead a font onscreen? You can't?! Wow! We can see they held their sides and laughed hysterically. was a complete failure. As Chapman states upper management at MicroPro, sometime "Customers don't like it. They've seen the The press hates TopView; they think the Mac they want to make cool Mac-like things Faced with such a monumental failure, IBM's No matter how much IBM loathed their dependency would be setting themselves up for failure all on their own again. A better plan in IBM's co-develop a successor MSDOS, but ensure that Whatever the reasons for their decision may IBM and Microsoft signed a "Joint Development operating system would continue to be supported a replacement that was called "CP-DOS" in IBM may have been developing OS/2 jointly with was their product and Microsoft was at best a of OS/2, with the right to license it out if OS/2 was going to boot MSDOS out of the hopefully along with its annoying founder and called "OS/2 Dreams", it would be "either into the twenty-first century, or the operating Byte missed the fact that as far as IBM and saw no reason why it wouldn't. If Microsoft switched to OS/2, then their biggest cash cow to competing with application software or Fed up with seeing a steady stream of royalties out MS-DOS to the very cloners that were killing only put an end to this torrent of cash, but MSDOS's manifold weaknesses and was designed to Since IBM gauged its programmers productivity was certainly going to have an enormous amount of mean operating system machine as possible. warrants a completely separate video of its own, OS/2 was planned to be a multithreaded, handle up to a whopping 16 MB of RAM, a And yes it's true that by the mid 1980s you could but then you had to struggle with software and workaround like expanded memory, which clunkily 640k by means of bank switching RAM. A great workarounds developed is over at filfre, check IBM's lofty ambitions for OS/2 immediately clashed different cultures struggling to mesh together When it came to the original MS-DOS, IBM had no development on it themselves. But for OS/2, trying to coordinate who was working on what, right direction was an almost impossible 1986, immediate cracks in the partnership's facade culture clash continually exacerbated enormous In the words of Neal Friedman, one of Microsoft's for people at Microsoft and for people at IBM too. of the spectrum. At IBM, things got done very You went high enough to find somebody who things without getting approval from the joint a tiny little bug, to get approval for anything. and matters were not helped along by the fact the final word on all design decisions and Microsoft was clearly viewed as the junior partner incapable of making rapid decisions, or reaching their byzantine policies and procedures and of the bureaucratic hierarchy, ensured that time. And when building an operating system, And every one ate up an inordinate amount of time. incorporate what was known as SAA or "Systems behind SAA was that OS/2 would be somewhat capable of running on the full range of IBM up to mainframes with either no or only programs written for OS/2 to run on any IBM lock on the market from mainframes to micros. after all IBM had seen enormous success with a full range of computers, although obviously and were compatible with each other, making very straightforward. But times had changed and the market was moving away from expensive agreements and heavily marked up hardware, with network cards and a shared server. not only dramatically increase the development to designing a new car that was also capable just in case you wanted it to be compatible with on this and thus work on OS/2 dragged on for for OS/2 expanded at an exponential rate thanks to In 1987 OS/2 finally limped onto the market. And after years of effort? A massive resource hog improvements over MSDOS, presented the user with All of OS/2's fancy new features and design had gotten so far behind schedule that the actual the rest of it, and thus the initial release was command prompt only, without the overhead of OS/2 was extremely slow. And at all required a massive increase in For an additional 340 dollars, more than three bundled with your computer anyway, you got an required 5 to 8 megabytes of RAM to run computers rarely had more than 1 to 2 megabytes still being sold with only a fraction of that. The itself had set six years earlier, when it released Another source, Merrill Chapman's In "4MB of memory to be useful, 8MB to step And as a reminder, if you really wanted a GUI for 100 dollars, version 2.0 of which was released in a minimum of 512k of RAM to run, although the minimum specs quickly wished they weren't. 128k of RAM, which was barely sufficient and it's quickly released successor, which allowed the Mac OS to run extremely well. at that time, and it was only black and white, system so long as you respected its limits. IBM system that potentially required 1600 to 2800 That was a lot of money, equivalent to 3400 to to release Windows 10 with the requirement that it and really should have at least 256 GB, it Although one tangible benefit of running Windows least four concurrent tabs in Chrome, something IBM also did nothing to clear up the confusion scheme, where people assumed that OS/2 would Of course IBM had no interest in clearing OS/2 and PS/2 meant that people would of course A number of companies did hop onto the OS/2 that were hoping to launch into a less crowded that were beginning to feel that dealing with There were a few heavy hitters in the who fully committed themselves to This would wind up painfully The PS/2 line was launched into the marketplace opposite of their extremely well received introduced the original PC to the world featured extremely clear and easy to understand, the PS/2 members from the famous TV show MASH. Although Loretta Swit, Gary Burghoff, Larry Linville, Farr appeared in a series of TV commercials and Although developed by the same marketing agency Lord, Geller, Federico, Einstein, the contrast with the original IBM PC commercials and The Tramp commercials had worked well due extremely recognizable character played by Charlie In an AP article on the new ads, the Richard Lord, chairman of the ad agency, said the Chaplin character ''could carry all the products'' He said the idea of computer ''connectivity,'' had also become a more important Using a group of actors in the ads, Lord said, computers being used in a variety of situations. do advertising, but not as their famous and one that left many people unmoved. audience, as Apple's infamous "Lemmings" Ultimately, IBM felt that they had been so that they eventually terminated their relationship dollars a year in ad accounts. But that was In fairness, bad marketing was undoubtedly the Even good marketing would have struggled a product that was not only expensive, all of their expensive hardware add-ons. the problems that this would incur, especially actually slower in many cases than many clones buy a new computer that required them to give and buy all new replacement add-on cards that but were actually slower as well seems strategy but that was what IBM decided to do. fewer add-on cards than its predecessors, of functionality built in that previously was putting video out directly onto the or VGA that was built into all PS/2 motherboards. would still have needed to, for example, MCA ones. And some users would have just more esoteric ISA add-on cards did not exist Furthermore, IBM decided that not only would PS/2 every Micro Channel clone they sold, they would license fee for every single PC clone they had have to cough up large sums of money to not only retroactively pay IBM millions for computers PC bus that IBM did not own the rights to. At might be saying that this sounded like a bad idea. started 1987 by confidently waiting for cloners to that any cloner who tried to reverse engineer engineers or very good lawyers. He was confident clone it, and thus the would-be cloner would be at probably be unwilling to give, at least initially. any overtures, Lowe started publicly saying that cloners for the right terms. Still nobody came. "practically begging other companies to to own the new standard if nobody else used it?" line and Micro Channel, Compaq even quietly did a but without wide market adoption, there was little ISA bus. And those machines were what was selling, line and its complete incompatibility with their Still, if Micro Channel had been running at its fast as the older bus, and that might have been by making it attractive enough for consumers and expense and buy the new machines and rebuy all plus the massive fees to use it and the no legal right to...the existing cloners were the broader consumer market behind them. The new Intel 80386 chip or they wanted good old And IBM was offering neither option in a format incompatible with consumers existing hardware Lowe. Yes, IBM actually killed off their top market adoption of its incompatible replacement. especially because the market could still buy of the plethora of other cloners. Fortunately America did not affect IBM's operations in Mike Armstrong, had recently moved to take kept the AT in production, and it continued to be IBM was correct in diagnosing the problem with 386 and its 32 bit architecture, a new bus was equipped with the 386 and future 32 bit processors IBM had failed to make Micro-Channel that new replacement bus that was ready to take its own IBM's chances of regaining control of the PC Unsurprisingly, the company that would lead other than Compaq. Compaq had been quietly as fast as Micro Channel, but was also fully the very thing that IBM had said was Compaq reached out eight other significant Street Journal called The Revolt of the Clones. the adoption of a Micro Channel alternative. Epson, HP, NEC, Olivetti, Tandy, Wyse Technology, market share of 33.5 percent of the PC market. fractious alliance of fierce competitors, to present a united front against IBM and avoid Out of this unusual alliance of bitter competitors Standard Architecture, a full 32 bit bus that did backwards compatible with the old AT ISA bus. hardware standard and they would never regain backfired badly, as one source bluntly put it: below the waterline at IBM. No one knew it IBM had lost its battle to force a new industry hardware. However, if it could succeed with the operating system that every PC ran. Given controlling the software the hardware ran on would to replace Microsoft. Software had extremely high Microsoft to merely being an application such as Word and Excel, probably a large and Although interest was initially high for OS/2, line only release, plus even more delays in the massive cost of the memory required to run it, and many started to pay more attention to Windows. its stubborn refusal to leverage its vast RAM base of OS/2 and get it to a critical mass. Given to run OS/2, IBM could have started bundling OS/2 In the words of a product manager for "OS/2 without memory was a one thousand dollar 4MB memory stick, it was a million copy seller" late 80s, with 1 MB sticks going from 100 dollars from giving OS/2 away with RAM and driven market top ever thought about adopting this strategy. special version of Windows 2 that took advantage multi-tasking multiple DOS programs, if you had features of OS/2, although it was still behind the Although still three years away from the 3.0 Windows 2 gave the user a GUI that ran well required 512 kilobytes as minimum specs. they could pick OS/2 which cost a fortune and they could go with Windows, which was reasonably and ran acceptibly, especially if you had a really care too much about Windows being pirated market share it got, and Microsoft made most for preinstall on new systems anyhow. as the pricing for the software development kit or than even Apple's SDK's and one that stood in practically gave away. For large companies companies or individual programmers, the initial IBM also failed to set up any programs to help secure shelf space on retailer's shelves or help One other problem with OS/2 is worth mentioning. of 1988, with the Presentation Manager user interface and making it look far more it couldn't print to any non-IBM printer. IBM printers besides the ones it sold, and most Printers in the 1980s were far more expensive than for the user, especially if they had one of the of OS/2 was not only confronted with needing to dollars, pay a small fortune for enough RAM to of OS/2 specific software...but they also Windows was looking more and more attractive copies a month. And Windows 2.0 could actually of 1989, IBM released OS/2 1.2 which still Sales of Windows 2.0 rose even further thanks Windows 3.0 which promptly sold two million OS/2 into a permanent vault of obscurity. market failure, there are a couple hardware day in some form. First of all was the this small analog port, typically purple for found on some towers even today. Second was the 15 for connecting a monitor to a laptop or tower, although it has essentially been entirely OS/2 actually soldiered on for well over a decade was in December of 2001, with IBM's support of 2006. Never quite managing to break through IBM's it still attracted a dedicated user base that was reliability. Scott Adams even refers to OS/2 users poking fun at the fact that OS/2 die-hards operating system than Macintosh users were. of the IBM PC. I had a lot of fun researching you enjoyed it. The next computer history series I an in-depth look at the rise and fall of OS/2, Both subjects have been touched on in this series, If you want to see more videos along with what computer history subject you would thanks for watching! If you enjoyed this video,