Noah: I mean I had all these people that followed when the book hit the shelves, I was terrified. to see a side of me that they have not seen Tom: Everybody, welcome to Impact Theory. that human potential is nearly limitless but same as actually doing something with it. introduce you to the people and ideas [00:00:30] dreams. Today's guest is a real American hero. 9/11, he immediately enlisted in the military. headed directly for the front lines joining to the 101st Airborne Division. into his second deployment, the Humvee that nearly killing him. He woke up five [00:01:00] arm and left leg both amputated. He had to endless recovery and rehabilitation before but even then, he wasn't out of the woods. him turning him from a friendly, vibrant man His marriage dissolved and his frequent drinking a DUI. He [00:01:30] knew at that point that Now, look. He is the first to admit that his despite the ups and downs, the second act than the first. Determined to be a good role to the gym and began to rebuild himself, mind were so inspiring that he began to attract of triumph over tragedy [00:02:00] has seen appear on Ellen and the Today Show and star American Grit. earned his way to third place on the mega-hit in welcoming the founder of the No Excuses Living with No Excuses: The Remarkable Rebirth Army Sergeant and all-around badass, Noah Noah: Thanks for having me. story has obviously been on my radar since story of somebody who is insanely vulnerable the journey has been like but really has made that you're in is amazing for somebody that for somebody that doesn't. Walk me through back up. I got into at a young age and always carried it was manual labor. When I ended up in the because it's very physical and when I was [00:03:30] was struggling, I knew that I was was one of the things that got me into changing which wasn't easy at all. I mean I tell people was a side of fitness that I was not used was insecure, didn't want people to see me Tom: You started going late at night, right? ... There's a lot ... I meet people all the want to get in shape but they're worried about and I got to experience that but then, as I didn't care what time of day I went. Then, I tell people I had to convince myself I was way, just to myself because no matter what stronger, faster but I could stand there and than me and think, "But could you do it I mean deep down, I hope he could but you you're doing what other people can't. When say, "Well, then you have struggles ahead it more." I think that mindset of doing me to want to do the best. I like the balance that you're talking about win, right? I want to play at the highest Now, that doesn't mean I want them to trip best as well but I still want to win. You've and you talked about that notion, that so let alone be able to thrive once they get all call a warrior's mindset? I don't know not. with it, because I know for me, if I understand that because I felt like I had found a home, so now, I had to find something new that piqued going. After I got back into shape, started Mudders, marathon, something as simple as it but [00:06:00] wanting to always talk my and have other speakers, like I want those I'm going to do better." I'm about to get my adrenaline going. which ... Really, my question is about how their own life? Tom: You struggled so much in your journey some process to your self-talk, to how you get moving again. the same mindset of that doing what others ... I am very close to my kids. I have three are my motivation. When I was going into the time, you have to have something stronger The day that I walked out in the living room I knew that I was showing my two boys what grow up to be and I was showing my little what she's going to look for one day, I knew I admit to people, I talk about it in my book, overnight. Just because I had that realization I would make a mistake, fall flat on my face up and going and it was the thought of them getting back into shape, doing whatever it I tell people all the time you have to have me, it is my kids. I use that in, whether it is, we all get scared. That's what makes stronger than that and say, "You know what, more important that I have to do this for." that doesn't have kids or they don't immediately want it, they want to get in shape [00:08:00] Noah: Yes. It was not easy but I mean you lives that is important to us, whatever that someone saying, "You know what, I want to it is, you got to want it bad. I am big on told people they probably have nieces or nephews That's what you have to go off of. There is There was someone watching [00:08:30] you I ended up in the spotlight and now, my story motivate one person, that is a world of difference that mindset. I was like, when you do things, doing it for someone else. You live a life of service in a way that is maybe a slightly more obscure story from your 9/11, joining, like they get that immediately like he ..." You live a life a service. come and go. You're still going to be living in county jail and the big guy was trying Noah: Cellmate's cookies. this, to me, was incredible insight into who Noah: [00:09:30] There I am. I'm in the county sitting there. It's crappy food. is after your accident. the county jail and I'm sitting there and big, burly guy and walks over and says to and then drinks his watered-down Kool-Aid, [00:10:00] that little bit of flavor is all drinking water out your sink and he just took there thinking, "Okay, don't get in the Well then, the guys who were there for a long he'd go and get snacks, whatever they wanted. cellmate, every night, I was trying to have just ... You couldn't. He was out there. He that day." I was like, "What day?" You was like in his 40s. He just need to get back in with me said he shouldn't be there. He he was there. this guy. He had his cookies. I'm sitting that big burly guy goes into our cell. I'm in there?" One of the guys playing [00:11:00] like, "I think he's eating his cookies." "No." I went in there. I just tore into He said, "Man, I'm just in here talking." I said, "You need to get out." I mean down and just stared at him and he just stood to his cell. was like, " [00:11:30] Oh crap. I'm only You all see in TV. He's making something I'm only here for 10 days. Then, for dinner, down for dinner and he walks over again to his tray and says, "No," and he slides me slides his Kool-Aid to me. [00:12:00] I he walked off. Suddenly, I'm like top dog then on, like there's a TV that's up on should we put it on?" I was like, "I don't They wanted my opinion on everything but I mean to ... I wasn't trying to be alpha of guy. The guy [00:12:30] had ... I mean, everyone in that cellblock was worried about that one I love telling that story because it's crazy Tom: It literally is out of a movie. When Noah: A movie life, biscuit? because in the book, we're inside your head, the chills. The moment before when he takes 10 days," like, "Don't get involved," more times. It's like clearly still on your is the same shit that got him in trouble in know he's going to do it." I love that you wanted to be alpha. It was so consistent protect somebody else. The fact that your kids, the camaraderie that you had over in another after another and [00:13:30] service Do you think of yourself like that, as living Noah: Well, I come from a family full of military into wanting to take care of others. I just all be taking care of each other in one way doing my book, I hired a girl that I've me write it. She pointed that out to me. [00:14:00] but that's what drives you." She pointed then I quit, then I started, then I quit, Tom: Isn't that Corey? obesity and then suddenly, I was like, "Let's what got me going, is knowing I was doing that having my kids being my motivation, I with the success I've had, I still turn things speeches on leadership and I say, "You know, of companies," and I'm like, "Do not forget be successful, was to take care of your family." make, I think what lessons it's going to them and I will turn things down. me and I wanted to do it but we had one phone back home. I said, "Thanks but no thanks. Another show called, turned them down. Dancing in a house in LA and I said, "Thanks but do it." Deena Katz, executive producer said, Birmingham, you'll rehearse there and fly say was, "Crap. I guess I'm doing it." Noah: Yep. somewhere even more interesting than that. is motivated by service. Tell me about your This really surprised me. or two before that, we had several tornadoes a state of emergency. A lot of people lost out and was doing disaster relief work. I out there working. It felt ... That was the I felt like I was accomplishing something from sunup to sundown. When I got home one I was just about to go to bed, I was tired, these people saying Osama bin Laden has been "What is this?" is about to speak. I turned the TV on and there waiting for him to walk out and he comes Saddam Hussein was killed. I remember when fighting. It doesn't matter to us." When didn't know if it affected me yet until my texted me. I said, "I want to thank you [00:17:00] Even now, it's like, just her saying life was changed, I lost two of my limbs because it was that one text from her. I mean I got I sat on the couch and I cried because what mean everything changed. I didn't realize inside and I needed that cry. I needed that Tom: What really brought that home for me a part of who you are, so thinking of you I needed to protect America from her enemies," actually a really interesting idea and I wrote you still use this notion of enemies? Then, being killed affected you and I thought, "Whoa," sort of kicked all this off and to me, having that you're not in a military context, is beating an obstacle course? The obstacle course Noah: [00:18:30] I don't think so. My mindset time. I never once would be the guy that's I was fun to be around. I was physically fit. leadership but I also had this mindset that Tom: Yeah. Tell me about that. That's making Noah: I don't want to ... I feel like it sounds have ... I think you're a better soldier if is done. Everything is taken care of. You're I'm either going to deploy over and over will die in combat. I was not prepared for okay with death. Now, I'm 35. I'm not in the I don't know. If I'm on a plane and we hit My mind says different. I'm not the same. but I don't now. To me, when it comes to the something that ... I'm a pretty positive guy to want to outdo. I've seen, I've had organizations That drove me to do certain things or to fight just for veterans' issues but for veterans me and there's a lot of other veterans that we're going to make a change, we have to start I take pride in the fact that I'm one of those pride that I'm out there and showing that go on and do other things. I think that, yeah, but there's also this, there's these groups though. You always ..." The mindset is that We just have to get over what we've gone through To be able to be a successful soldier takes go over there and deploy over and over again We have to get their mind right and these more people, more veterans that are out there now I'm doing [00:21:00] this, now, I'm doing Tom: All right. Let's talk about mental health book and certainly in what you've had to go in the book are amazing. I think that they- Tom: I can only imagine. For anybody that what we're talking about. You were really as like, "Hey, I'm a stud. Look at me." Absolutely love that part of it. Amazing. routinely to say that thank you for that and Noah: Yeah. I didn't know how people are going that followed me from Dancing with the Stars I was terrified. I was like all these people not seen and they're going to hate me. It very open and honest. kind of audience that you would build off of very much like sort of right down the middle when you were angry were like it's sort of For you to like put it out there and be like, so that you understand, like I'm not justifying was like, "God," It was so defenseless and to walk through that but then it got me process?" but I was like, "What would he say like What would he do if it's a soldier? What would not a soldier?" Having gone through it and what that process looks like, how do we ... and address the problem and we'll just say of of one-offs on a one-to-one, what does that Noah: Well, I think [00:23:00] what needs way with mental health but we have a long Tom: Where would you say how far have we come Noah: We acknowledge it. We acknowledge it. agree [crosstalk 00:23:14]. in the past. It was, I think, in World War these different things but it was not acknowledged to be talked about more. I think the more we are and the more we can [00:23:30] understand When I woke up one morning and saw that in about his depression, it made me really happy "Well, you lost an arm and a leg so you them. I was like, "Depression is real. You Some are caused by something traumatic. Some I feel like if you had heart problems and would be concerned about you, want to know honest with the crew, anybody you work with. Noah: Yeah, but the most complicated organ suddenly there's a ... We don't want to talk that's what people need to realize. You can we need to need to realize. The reason I did thought I was alone. I didn't open up to anybody and it's going to help them, so [00:24:30] I kept thinking that one person is going to Well, now it's opened up this dialog and A and people want to talk about ... I gave I was going to say it was ... They were old my speech. As I was closing, I kind of mentioned out of the winter months and it hit me again and so it was on my mind and it came up. As people probably aren't connecting to what they lined up, the amount of people that thanked I was. I thought they didn't want to hear. it needs to be talked about because it's not more and more that it's an issue and the it is for people to be honest with themselves Tom: Yeah. I really strongly agree with that with anxiety, it's that same thing of like, going through it, if you're able to talk about said, you learn when you teach, right, so to try to combat, it's like, "Oh yeah, that of reinforce it and systematize it. [00:26:00] do you think differently about somebody that's that versus somebody that- I think the depression is real and can affect can happen in your life whether it's combat Tom: Is the path out different? Here's an example I give. Combat never gave the happiest than I was in combat. Noah: Yes, I loved it. I mean you get this or death. It's what people go to the movies Tom: Let me just say that with a smile, by Noah: It is. It's exciting but- like adrenaline and excitement and nothing at you. Tom: I'm pretty sure that's like a verbatim Noah: Yep, it's [00:27:00] just hard to find Tom: Yes, probably for the best. suddenly after that first deployment, I was I put in a [inaudible 00:27:14] go to Special second deployment, they were going to take Forces. I was like, "Well, I'm not leaving had this vision of the future. Then, I wake are gone. My career is gone. Yeah, there's of the future and it's taken away, you don't where you're heading right now. If you woke again, you can't even do the show anymore. reading the book. they get hung up on the past. I don't know proud of this little thing I came [00:28:00] on Married with Children scored four touchdowns any of those, all those seasons, every episode, that. He lives in the past. He never moved else that has gone through something that Be proud of what you've done and where you've life. Now, it's time to conquer something mine." That's how I got over my depression, When I got back into fitness, well then, it ran races. I felt like fitness was the answer. asking people if they've accepted fitness I got ... After Dancing with the Stars ... Noah: My speaking engagements picked up and [00:29:00] Business got busier and one day, was like, "I haven't worked out all week. down to my bed and I thought about it. Well, it. If you do it right, you need to plan your to achieve. Well, in business, you plan where steps and what your goal is. Well, I was doing Tom: Interesting. achieving little goals at a time, building other day ask me what I see myself in five I can't answer that. I'd love to be in the have found is in life, you can plan things to adjust and that's what plans do." The five years is to still be trying to be the that I keep focused all the time, is being if something happens, I'm not in the public then, hey, shift gears. Do the next thing. this time and do the next. I call it total BS. I actually believe it for you, dealing with your injury [00:30:30] when he was born? That seemed terrifying. his small intestines, spending three and a even we went home, all this equipment hooked didn't know what was going to happen but I when I was injured. That's just being honest. I felt like I had to be the one to say it's later, even after we're divorced, she said then when I got injured, I was like, "Well, was interesting because my father has one Tom: That's so weird. Tom: Reading that, I was like, "What, what, Noah: [00:31:30] To grow up with a father life, I remember he didn't ... It was hard and I asked him. I said, "Did you ever think said, "No. I always was afraid ..." He of his limbs. It never crossed his mind that was this interesting thing that happened. my son, Colston, that went through all that days with him, lifted my spirits because then tough but I have something else to live for. therapy and my sisters walked in with him. my sisters reminded me that the room was crowded and everyone just piled out. You know what mean it was very emotional to see him. if that's the thing that you're living for, the [crosstalk 00:32:56]- my first deployment, [00:33:00] I had a wife, everyone took two weeks leave, I turned it Tom: I remember that story. her that it didn't come up for me but I didn't a picture of Colston with me everywhere I thinking, I hope he never experiences this. whatever is happening, that he never experiences Tom: Do you think having his picture [00:33:30] mind made you a better or worse soldier? I mentioned that death, accepting death could be argued but then having a son, like you hesitation but then also had this mindset this and I'm going to just [00:34:00] do what of me one day. the age now where he gets- Tom: ... what you're about. of days. I'll head back tomorrow and about 12 now so he hasn't has a phone and he texted and I just want to thank you for your service like thinking, "You're my son. You're not me." [00:34:30] I mean, choked me up and [inaudible 00:34:35] he's wanting something appreciative, all the kids. I three amazing Tom: What do you hope your kids take away Noah: To not let anything ... to just always don't have to be the best. [00:35:00] Just not that person that expects my kids to be all-star but if they're giving me their Tom: I would say you have a deep problem with that. You never say it but you dropped out there were signs in the book that you didn't pretty clear but you're really bright so dropping you couldn't hack it. It was because something Noah: Yes. that you have a deep problem with authority that? Tom: Do you think you need to work on it actually who was in charge of taming me as a child consider it one of my most effective qualities? try to sound respectable. Noah: Yeah. No. Every time I've bucked the told me to do something. I don't mind hearing it. "Okay, if it needs to be done," but happening, I speak up. Noah: I take pride in that. Now, I have I that, I make sure and take care of them and here because you do what I can't do. I don't do because you're amazing at it. I feel like I'm like, "All right, [00:37:00] I'm going from that with people I work with, you know whatever it takes to take care of them because care of them and that has worked to my advantage. because I didn't like the way the system worked. in childhood education. Everywhere she's ever [00:37:30] and someone said, "Why do you it's not right." Now, hers is a little a little more barbaric but we have that same not right, we're going to make it right. for a second. This one is so good and I don't you the story which proves your point here, a white truck. You spot the white truck. It stops. [00:38:00] Do you remember what you Noah: Yep, I do. Well, okay, so another guy Tom: ... which you already hate. this [inaudible 00:38:13] shady looking a and you got a group of guys in it. I mean thought, okay, we probably should go across need to cross it but I [00:38:30] was mad. I told the platoon leader, [inaudible 00:38:34] I don't care if we're driving next to a right." That needs to happen. There should Tom: I went back and re-read the sentence Noah: Is that what I- if we're driving on a road and there's a cliff I will turn right and I was like, "Wow, I really ... but it is so dangerous to take take it as a gestalt and you realize, okay, the system when he thinks it's broken because not a selfish guy, he's way more interested himself so when you say to somebody who clearly believed in this leadership and was that the matter what happens, I will protect you? Tom: [00:39:30] That you're making like that was just one of those things where I was like very clear in your every action. This is who I am. This is what stand for and going to go but I must stick to who I am and Tom: I think that's a very smart strategy that we're living through a time now unlike you will [00:40:00] be rewarded for or punished Noah: I think people ... and now, because up social media right now and if you stalk you can see their personality. Noah: A good reputation will follow you. A Tom: Nice. There you go. All right. I want about the disaster recovery relief work that us about the hammer and why did you work that Noah: What had happened was it was late in going to rain and a guy rushes in and he's We're like- Noah: Yeah. We're like, "Well, we're going house is gone. I mean the whole wall is gone, Roof is gone. He's just trying to tarp up rain comes. We're up there. We're hammering flying into the rubble. I'm like, "Well, I need another hammer," and the guy just my dad's hammer." I just saw ... Oh, [00:41:30] was like, "We'll find it. We'll find it," ..." down back in the yard and he's just looking find it." Then, it's like he saw that I Don't worry about it. It's just a hammer," and he passed away and this and that." I Then, I am ... and they didn't want me out this rubble and I'm trying to get through I'm like, I'm just so mad at myself for losing long as I looked and I turn and there's a in the bush. I take that hammer and I give for him to be like, "Don't worry about it," about it and I am so glad I found [00:42:30] Tom: It's interesting. It's one of those stories I'm not even sure like what thing to hold thought, one, you're telling this story in your universe that you could talk about, that out there like rebuilding houses for, just making sure that you find [00:43:00] this tell you that I have like a wrap-up to that it's going to stick with me for a long time. story you would tell your kids and if so, of that story? thought about it that much. I mean it was but I guess when it comes to a moral to that a hammer to me is so much more to someone Tom: That's an amazing moral to that story. to be? I don't necessarily mean career but major movements in your life of being the could do that to then, going through the hard service to [00:44:00] others and a willingness what's the next chapter hold, do you think? that, yeah, I have a disability, I'm an injured done and I will always be seen as that. I'm there's so much more than that and I want will show a side that is beyond what's so Tom: [00:44:30] What's a side of you, you Noah: I don't know. I'm pretty open and honest I really hide that people wouldn't know. I people that follow me on social media know Tom: Really? Tom: That's amazing. Tom: What is it about the Golden Girls that Noah: It's an amazing television show but about that one day on social media and my just like this guy, this like, oh yeah I love or The Notebook. I talk about that in the Tom: Yeah, you did. wearing a pink shirt, all right? I'm okay I don't think there's anything that people in the future, not now, I'll be in politics. Noah: I think so. Noah: Any time I've gone to DC, I've worked in State of the Union. I've met with the President. time I'm there, I'd kind of get this bug feel like too many politicians don't know that if you explain the policies in a way I mean, and not try to hide so much, just this is why we're doing this. Yeah, it may it with this and try to actually try to improve I love my country I feel like we are still set back. We make mistakes. We're still a forward and I feel like we can do that in together. I think there needs to be more of those people that is up on the hill that is Tom: That's incredible. If I can start voting Noah: All right. last question, where can these guys find you Noah: Noahgalloway.com is my website and from Facebook and Instagram. the impact you want to have on the world? I do, I think of my children first and then we teaching the next generation? What are we doing to prepare the next generation? I all the time. I think not enough people think like I do with the house, I do with my children. ... As a veteran, I tell people when it comes and forth but you know what, Vietnam veterans it'd be a disservice to them if my generation selfish of us not to think about the generations to make it better. That's thinking of those like to make in the world is to not always affecting those that are following us. is amazing. Tom: Noah, thank you much for coming in the Noah: Thank you. [00:48:00] in all seriousness, thank you for Noah: Thank you. read his book. It is absolutely unbelievable. this guy's done. I'm telling you nothing does got to go in, just hear it, you're inside talk about politics before, I am deadly serious. let me tell you why. When you take his personality you have somebody that's not afraid to mix fan of, but does it in service of other people, that can't stick up for himself, when a big that stands up for that guy to be the guy Looking at the way that he is, he lives by about taking care not only of yourself but those around you. taking care of the people and really being of service to that community, out and that to me is one of the most beautiful the most incredible part is not when somebody It's when they live a life that you say, "Thank they are today and you envy them [00:49:30] they've done to their mind is absolutely extraordinary. I see somebody to look up to. I see somebody far more astonishing than what he's done to about it even now he struggles with depression takes steps to do so, to me, is incredible is somebody that I cannot encourage you enough to learn from them, to read and to support thank you so much again for joining us. Tom: My friends, until next time. Be legendary. for joining us for another episode of Impact your life, our one ask is that you go to iTunes does that help us build this community, [00:50:30] about, but it also helps us get even more with all of us. Thank you, guys, so much for time. Be legendary, my friends.