- [Sparc] I'm trying to It's not about the vulnerability itself, it's about the insight that got the hacker to witness or discover or There are other skills that make you more valuable on the market. And these skills are like about software design, software architecture. So, I couldn't put that in the book, because everybody would just like, yeah, like you said, &quot;Oh, that's, nobody would do that.&quot; Well, actually. (light contemporary music) - Hey everyone, David Bombal He's the author of a whole bunch of books. Here's one of them, Hack Like a God. Here's another, Hack Like a Pornstar. Very, very cool names. Hack Like a Ghost. And a very new one. Well, here's another one, actually, Ultimate Guide for Being Anonymous. And here's a very new one. I don't have the physical copy, but when you watch this, it should be available How To Hack Like A Legend. Sparc Flow, welcome. - [Sparc] Thank you, thank - It's great to have you here. So, I was going to, let's start with this. So I think these are the two latest books that you've got, right? - Yeah. - So, Hack like a Ghost. And then Hack like a Legend. I mean, maybe you can of like a quick overview between all of these books? Because I can't say I've read everything, but I really have enjoyed what I've read in each of these books. I don't know if you want to start with perhaps the newest book. Because this is the one... - Yeah. - That's just come out, - Yeah. Of course. Well basically, the is to take the reader to actually hack a company. So it's not a list of vulnerabilities, it's not a list of, a It's rather, let's get in shadow the hacker, and see what are the frustrations that they meet, what are the technical challenges, what typical insight they during certain situations. The idea is to simulate a And so each of these books kind of targets a different type of company, So How To Hack Like a Pornstar kind of like an experiment. - Cool name. But I will show you this, because actually, and sorry to interrupt, I just wanted to show this No, I think it's the other one, Hack Like a God, sorry to I just wanted to show this You've got like the NSA, busy but that's in Hack Like a God. So sorry. Apologies. Back to Hack Like a Pornstar. - Yeah. Exactly. I took that one from the So the first one basically, How to Hack Like a Pornstar, really takes you through Fortune 500 company. They have Windows all over the place. They have legacy systems, they have all this kind of stuff. And it's just about like hacking them. And that was really looked like. Literally. I mean it's a mega scenario composed of many small scenarios. You don't need to go to hack a company, actually. Just subset of it will But yeah. And then I said, okay, because when you do a scenario, you don't get to explore every vulnerability and every mistake. And so that overflow of ideas that kept stayed in my head, I dumped and that's how it went really. - So your second book, - How To Hack Like A God. Yeah. - Great. - And so when I did finish I kind of explored all the we found in every company And then I set myself I was like, you know we take this assumption that the company that we're trying, that we're targeting, are really bad at security. Let's for fun, imagine that They're actually very good. Like they have detection they don't have legacy stuff. So yeah, how would that work? And so that's basically How To Hack Like A Legend. And it's really about a hacker, I don't want to give away too much, but basically hacker gets inside using all the traditional methods and then suddenly they get And how do they get back inside? How do they manage this and so on. And it's really about like you are facing an adversarial context. Like there's machine there's monitoring. That's the idea of that book. - I love it because on YouTube videos, I always get this complaint. David, what you're showing is, is stupidly simple and unrealistic. But we all know that some some have very bad security. And I think it's great that you're taking a modern day example where and they've got good systems and how do you get around that. - Yeah. And I want to come back to that interesting remark about simple We saw some stuff in the that I couldn't put in the book because people would not believe it. Oh, come on. - I'm glad you said that. - Nobody would do that. Well, I'll give you an actual I remember like in a pentest &quot;Oh, can you look at this And I'm like, &quot;Okay, let me see.&quot; They told me that it's very secure and it's very hard and et cetera. And I'm just like, &quot;Okay, I don't know. And I listed the users because anybody connected to the system and Windows actual directory, can list the users. And in the attributes of the to anybody connected to the environment were the actual passwords of the users. So I mean I couldn't put that in the book because everybody would nobody would do that. Oh, actually. And I think that's what's interesting about these books, honestly. I mean, it's totally biased opinion, but a lot of the time you to get inside a company. And I think that was the when I started doing this pentesting work. And I contrasted that observation with what I've read before. And I'm like, well that's not You know what, let me take a stab at it. So yeah. - So I want to ask some So there's something that that you highlight that a But what about Hack Like A Ghost? Because this changes the - Oh my God. That that That one. Well basically, here's I written all these books about Windows. Then I got a call to change jobs. I got a call about an opportunity. And the call went something like this. So we're looking for somebody et cetera. That would mean me changing literally the type of jobs that I would be doing. I'm like, &quot;Okay, that sounds interesting.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Well, do you know AWS? Do you know Kubernetes? Do you know anything I'm like, &quot;What are you talking about?&quot; And it was interesting this whole ecosystem of cloud I mean, that was back in 2017. And I realized that all the tools, all the tricks that worked simply did not work on this company. And I'm like, there is So I spent the next years And I thought, hey, that would make for an interesting scenario. Because all these tech companies, I mean, nobody sets up No. They just go to the cloud. All these startups, these scale ups. And I didn't find something or really addressing these in So I just wrote about it. - I mean, so you've covered, this is like cloud, so And like you said, that's so important because a lot of companies And then hear you back to Windows, right? - Yeah, that was Windows. Yeah. - A modern version of Windows - Yeah, sorry. I mean, the thing with the minute you release (melancholic music) And what I want to do, what I How To Hack Like A Legend, and maybe in any of those books, is that I'm trying to It's not about the vulnerability itself, it's about the insight that or discover or exploit that vulnerability. So I hope that's what I mean, even the modern one, like how to evade the where all the machine learns and stuff. I specifically say, this technique I found while researching the book, or I copied or it worked But basically this is the Don't hesitate to follow the same steps, and maybe you could So that was in How To Hack Like A Legend. I think that that summarizes the spirit of the book. - I'm trying to see which book it's in, but in one of your books you talk about how frustrating it is. You love and you hate this industry. - That's the intro of How To - Yeah. So in Hack Like the security industry is tricky. I maintain a love-hate due in no small part to its You can spend months or in a particularly area of security, say privilege escalation using PowerShell. And then only to feel completely useless when you find yourself in a full Linux or macOS environment or in a cloud environment I assume. So that kind of highlights - That was exactly my fueling when I got into that new company in 2017. Exactly. Yeah. That was day one. - So what would your Is it just don't give because it's changing, but you - You have to keep learning. Honestly, we can go but for people basically new to the field, they feel so overwhelmed by just the sheer and you have to dig deep in web application network And my advice is usually just That's it. Pick one, dive into it until you don't like it anymore, or you just feel like your by something else, and then switch and so on and so forth. And after a couple of years, And the effort to level up will no longer be as tremendous and as big because you already have that And yeah, I mean the people that I find are thriving in this industry are people who are hungry to learn. So right now I'm managing a team, security team on the blue team side. And for recruitment purposes, that's the one requirement that I have. I don't care about what I don't care if you know how to program. I don't care if you know I don't care about that. What I do care about is, are you hungry enough to learn? And if you see a problem, will you learn any necessary skill to get that problem solved? If you have those two it doesn't matter. I mean, you don't know Python? I'm sure you'll pick it So, yeah. - And it's exactly right. I mean, you can't teach someone to have that fire or that They've got to have it. - Yeah. And that's so important. And that's one of the things, that's one of the traits that I highlight in the book as well. Because as a hacker, you can't possibly cover all technologies. And so, come in front of Kubernetes, you don't know what Kubernetes. Well, you know what, download it, install it, play with it. See what assumptions people made that you can disprove for instance, or that are not totally And then there you have - I love what you said. I mean you were doing and then suddenly you were And I'm sure it was like that quote says, but you picked it up and now it's just another skill you have. - Yeah. Like people took So when I remember that he asked me all these questions about all these technologies And I said, &quot;Well, look. I don't know. But here are the principles of security that I followed in these other contacts. I didn't know this in that But I leveled up on it. So if you give me a chance, I'll do the same for AWS And it worked out pretty fine. And somebody's got to give I was lucky to have that. - But I love what you said there. Because I think the when they don't know the answer, they pretend or they And that's a big mistake. If you don't know, you don't know. You can't know everything. - Yeah. That's something that I probe when I hire people. I would just ask them it's okay if they don't know. And I ask them like, And then they say, &quot;It's Really? How does virtualization work? And I'll just probe deeper, And what I'm looking for really is just that, I don't know. Give me five minutes and I'll level up or two weeks or whatever. That's what I'm looking for. And people just start making up stuff. But it's okay to not know. I mean, the interview I just got to ask the difficult question because I got the chance to go first. Like the roles were a difficult question and I So yeah. - Yeah. I really think that you can't know everything. And I mean, I'm older and perhaps a lot of people half my age. And as soon as I remember just showing my age here, learning Windows NT or Windows and it's like, as soon then it's replaced. So you can't know everything. - Yeah. And it's okay. It's okay to not know everything. - Now there's something in and I mean this might be a good place to have a good conversation, is in all your, well not all of them, but a lot of the books you talk about the difference between a pentester and a hacker. Like a pentester or a red teamer, if they get caught, it's like, okay, tomorrow's another But with a hacker it's not like that. - Yeah. That's a big difference indeed. And so we felt it a lot when is that you don't pay too much you don't pay too much except the purpose of the mission. So if the assignment or testing for this and like for instance hacking, getting into the CEO's we really don't care about anything else, like hiding your IP addresses et cetera, et cetera. Now I say generally we don't care. Some people, some teams and say, &quot;I don't want to be detected. I'm going to replay the whole thing. I'm going to do my own infrastructure.&quot; Some people do that, and good on them. But it's not a necessary That's what I'm saying. And you don't have the luxury of time. I mean a hacker has but virtually unlimited I would say. And so they can spend so And they're not constrained by a scope. Because usually even theoretically there's no scope. But the reality is, You should not go beyond that scope. And so all these exercises all these constraints, sorry, yeah, it's a different types of exercises. And it's necessary to be Especially when you're doing assessments, when you're doing your recommendations, when you're talking with a what do they get from that audit? You must ensure that they are aware that, you didn't find any that you penetrated that or that something similar to that. - Yeah. Because you say here a lot of people make the mistake because they, you say you may be a capture-the-flag wizard or you may be the best But if you don't take care you may not be busted today, but they're going to maybe or the countdown starts. And you have a big emphasis, I noticed it in all the books, about setting up a infrastructure. So I want to talk about like you mentioned going to you mentioned certain versions of Linux. I want to talk around that. Because I think a lot of people, from what I've read you say here, make the mistake of assuming, &quot;Okay, I'm going to attack but then they forget that - Yeah. I just say that you don't have to sit in a McDonald's just to hide your identity. It's just like, okay, you with like on AWS or Namecheap et cetera. But you pay for it with your own credit card You don't care that much. A hacker basically, or a journalists or whatever, they have to think about this stuff, and it could get very perilous for them. And so they have to think about what footprint they leave on the internet. But also physically. Because usually what happens is like you follow all these guides and they say, &quot;Connect to TOR. Connect to et cetera and it's good. But if you do it from your or something like that, I mean no, you're being vulnerable, you're being exposed. You're one IP address So there's the physical aspect of it that you should also take care of. And obviously the money. I don't go too much into the money when I talk about in the books purposely. I didn't want to go in and stuff like that because that would be too much. But yeah. There's all these aspects that And I try to cover them in the in the books, just as a prelude, just to set the context again. And this is what basically it means for a hacker to do their soft business. - So let's talk through that because I mean I think this is going to be a great appetizer for people who are One of the things you say, and I mean you mentioned right now is you have to be careful You want to be truly anonymous. So you mentioned like wardriving. Can you explain what you mean by that? And then let's talk about McDonald's and some of the other options. - Oh yeah. Okay. So it's a very old concept, like maybe from the '90s. You take your car, you go around town You connect to them and That's basically wardriving. It has evolved to maybe cracking passwords of Like if they use some weak encryption like web or something like that, or easily guessable WPA two password. But that's roughly the scheme of it. - And then you've also - Yeah. There are some tools, websites that allow you to just locate So you don't have to just drive with your antenna looking for some public WiFis. You just like, &quot;I'm going to target this one that is in this street, in this city.&quot; But then again, you got to be careful of your human nature of going to the same place all the time. Because that creates a pattern. What I would usually just traveling around, going around cities, going You have places with cameras, You have places with a little but there are too many people. So it's okay to blend in there. You have to pay attention to this stuff. And sometimes it gets - I think this is a great topic because a large part of the audience are interested in hacking but a large part of the audience Like you mentioned like journalists or people that want to I mean there's many So like you would say, go to McDonald's, like go to a train station. But like you mentioned right now, and you mentioned in your book, be careful about the human nature of going to the same place. And also don't go in your - Yeah. I mean when I did that required privacy, I would say, I would go from one place to another. I would have different computer, different sets of logins, be very rigorous about my activity when I was on business Like you can't get sloppy. - And that's why you don't - Yeah. And that means, It also means that if you book three, four then you can't go around &quot;I'm curious if that person You can't do that. You need to be rigorous. You need to be like very Yeah. So that's important. - Okay. So physically you or go to McDonald's or go somewhere. And then you've mentioned also in your Ultimate Guide For Being Anonymous, and I see there's some like people make the mistake and I won't mention names, - Yeah. Oh my god. There's a lot of debate about Basically VPNs have been touted And they're like, &quot;If you want People got tired of that, I would say. And then they started to say the opposite, &quot;VPNs are worthless, are useless.&quot; And unfortunately, like neither are really true. You need to reason Who are you protecting against? These are the two most important... There are two important Who are you protecting against? If you try to answer who Like let's say I'm a journalist, let's say I might care about ad trackers because ad trackers get exploited by governmental And so I would go to certain extremes. So a VPN is not good enough. I would go to certain extremes I would go like a VPN, I would go to a rebound another rebound server after that. So I would chain multiple layers, that way even if one gives up, it's okay, it's not dramatic. But as a personal, let's say citizen that I just don't want to be tracked by ad trackers or something. I would just use... - Google. Yeah. - ... Google or Facebook or whatever. I would just use a VPN in combination with Brave, for instance. That would be enough. Because a lot of these ad some of them are very but a lot of them are just a in the IP address. So if I get these two And that's the setup that I use at home. I'm always connected to a I have some extensions private extensions that randomize some attributes of the browser, and I have some add-ons. That's it. - So just for everyone who's watching, we are not getting an affiliate fee. This is just our opinions Sparc Flow, in your book you I've seen those two, A AVPN specifically, in a few of your books. Is that still your Let's say I want to stop Do you have any sort Because there's a thousand out there. There's millions of dollars So what's your advice? - Honestly, I personally like Proton VPN. It's good. It's okay. It works well. It works across platforms. And so for my personal needs, for my threat model, and my threat model doesn't - Yes. - Right? So my threat model is simply like ad trackers that annoy the hell out of me. For this kind of threat, it's okay to use Proton VPN plus add uBlock Origin, Privacy Badger, and honestly and Brave, and that keeps me going. Yeah. I'm just saying if the threat changes, I'll consider something else. But for now it's okay. - Yeah. I think it's important because like what's the threat. If it's just ads from like Google, Facebook tracking you, whatever, then these tools that So if someone just is at the level of, okay, I just want to stop I'm not going to go sit in a cold train station somewhere and try and like hide my identity then Brave, Proton VPN, and these others, which I'll list below, are great. Go on. - Yeah. They're great. But then again, if you still use Gmail because good enough, I mean that's why it's I mean I'm not afraid of let's say, because look, I've experimented with other search engines I've experienced with a lot of emails. And I tried to get away from Google. But honestly, Google search is still good. Gmail is still the best. And I've tried to pay for other services, and I couldn't find something And my default is DuckDuckGo, and when I can't find I switch to Google. So yeah. - Yeah. It's interesting because I mean Brave have their browser, their search engine now. But I'm in the same boat as you. There's controversy about DuckDuckGo or being a bit of controversy. And like Brave's okay, But it's like frustrating, because Google knows me so well and knows what I'm looking for. - Yeah. There's some power to customization. And of course, yeah. - Okay. So let's take Okay. So I want to like hide. And in your book you talk about this fact that it's different, hacking totally different to red teaming because the person that you're up against might come after you. So then you go, that's when you go wardriving whatever. Then you mention Linux. And I believe you got two - Yeah, I like Tails. I mentioned UX as well. But Tails is good. And the idea is, you have So you have your physical different from where you et cetera. So it can tie that back to you. And then you have the system protection, you have the network protection. So the system protection is indeed like which operating system do you use? Does it store data on the hard drive? Like if they capture that hard drive, are you in trouble? And basically, it's If a layer gives up, are you in trouble and how And it's funny because we use in defense, same thing. You stack protection, detection. If this gives up, am I in So it's really the same thing. And yeah, like Tails, I mean get a USB key, put it on the computer, and then it boots everything from memory and it keeps everything from memory. And so if something comes up, you just remove the USB key and that's it. - So for people who the idea is it's all in RAM or memory. If something goes wrong, the Right? - Exactly. So in the operating you just put it preloaded on the USB key, and then you just plug it in, and you connect to this like ephemeral environment I would say. And then from that ephemeral environment, you connect to your actual So that gateway that will other servers where your tools reside because you need some you need some persistence of And so from that ephemeral environment, that machine, you connect to a bouncing server, and from those bouncing servers, you rebound across the where you can store information. - And I want to talk I just want to cover the basis Because I think a lot of people watching will be really interested in this. So laptop, you take a laptop with you, you go somewhere that's not at home, then you use Tails because it's ephemeral. As soon as the power's lost, it's gone. You mentioned TOR in the book, and I forgot to ask about that. So the VPN that you'd be would it be like one of or is there something else that you do? - Either a VPN or TOR. I don't have a strong opinion, because either way, if you're up against the federal agency in the US, I would say, I don't think either of them Here you have to rely on not or if you do, to not be in the US. Because and this anonymity thing is also about decreasing the likelihood of raising your value Because if you hack bank A, B, C, D and you get like 800 million in total, I mean you're a big target. They can justify spending and money chasing you. But if you can somehow mislead them and decorrelate the attacks, you are suddenly much less valuable. Like the person that hacked Uber, I don't know if it's the same I would advise against that because so then suddenly you're this person that actually So yeah. - I don't have it right with me now, but I remember in one of the books, you said something along the lines, you don't want to let an analyst try and like work out who you are and leave trail of who you are. Because then they might and give you like a fancy name, Is that right? - Yeah. Something like that. Because I was a digital It's actually my first professional job. And when we were like researching, investigating these incidents, I mean if you get a lead oh my god, it's ecstatic. It's like all those hours and you have this boost of energy that justifies going even further. I mean, it's so cathartic that yeah, we should avoid giving - And that's why you've got Tails, and you go from different places so you're not leaving like of doing things the same - Yeah, exactly. That's why you need to rechange, change your environment every time, and make sure that it's very different. You don't work on this, like you don't use the same I would say, Tails. No. Was it? You don't use the same... - Tricks to play? - Physical or tricks. Yeah. You don't use the same tricks Yeah. - And I mean I believe you've got some controversial opinions. So please feel free to go for it. But like you mentioned Chromebooks. On Chromebooks, good? - No. Nothing that... No. I mean, again, it depends. What's your threat level? Who Because in a company, I would say, if you're protection that is not Google, I mean, it's okay. Chromebooks are excellent. But if you're going to, I want to be like protected against tracking and stuff like that. No, I mean obviously not. It's not good. So, again, it really boils down to who you're protecting against, - Okay. So I've got a laptop, I've decided to go to McDonald's. I'm using Tails, I've got a VPN let's say or TOR. And you mentioned this Can you explain what that is, and then explain a bit about the infrastructure that you would spin up? - Yeah. So all this is, here's the thing. The whole thing about the on this specific book, How To Hack Like A Ghost, is so detailed because I experience what these go through when they set Because there's some interesting concepts that you can borrow and use For instance, there's this concepts of immutable infrastructure if you spawn a server, you don't change its configuration. It stays there until it dies. And if you want to change something, like upgrade it or do something else, you spawn another server. You need to automate that. And so I use that in by saying, if it's easy to automate the creation and instruction of servers, then you can have the luxury of having dedicated servers per target. Because it's so easy it's so easy to spawn 100 servers. That's why I went into the automation, terraform, containers and all these other tools. And now the idea is, you're on your computer. So you access these first And then from these servers, you go to different servers according to which type Are you doing phishing, are are you doing Nmap scan Are you doing it on target A, And so that's the idea, to have this kind of that is easily configurable. - In the Hack Like A Legend, you kind of bold in this it seems, and correct me if I'm wrong, but like you've got the target, and then you've got a frontline server, and that's attacking the - Yeah. - And can you just like give us an overview of how they work? So I've got a target, and then I've got server that's, you've done something within the cloud that's attacking, right? And then behind that Is that right? - Yeah. Exactly. But basically you don't from TOR or from the VPN. Because then, the IP would get leaked in the And so then suddenly the Like there's one layer of that is suddenly worthless. And so if you can imagine that they would hack it or crack it or legally challenge something like that, they can get back to you. And so the idea is to and that other layer would be a server. So instead of you attacking from TOR, you connect through TOR or a VPN, to a server X frontline server. And that frontline server actually interacts with the target. And so if the IP of the frontline server is on the logs of the company, And the idea is basically, you want to have a server per function. So for instance, if you start and that server gets down and in parallel you're well then you want to Because if your scanning gets detected and they block that IP, you don't want that to impact And so that's the idea of that you must have also - And you also have your in the cloud as well, right? And they're controlling all these devices. - They're controlling the inside the company. And the idea is, Again, I just give the blueprint but you can extend it. Like you can say for instance, I did phishing campaign, and I hacked a couple of workstations. So I'm going to make they're going to contact that server A. And then I can execute But then I spent some time and it was difficult. I secured these servers, I Should I make them report Well, it was so difficult Now if an analyst just busts one of the workstations that you hacked, suddenly you lose this privileged access that you got on the So I will make the report to a server B independent of server A. And that way you can keep some resiliency. Even if you lose one way into the company, you have other ways. So that's the idea, - So I mean you've also got redirects that sits between the phishing attack and the target, right? - Yeah. Again, it's just ad nauseum, I would say. Basically when the company, when you set up that command and control, so it's a Meta's ploy tool or Empire or Covenant, or what have you. So it's a tool that controls all these zombie machines, I would say. Do you want to configure Probably not. So either you automate the configuration of that tool 36 times. I mean you can do that. Or what you can do is configure it once and then place in front and that way, and you would So target A will go and go into that framework. Target B will go through that. And then you have one console But they the company, the different targets have the impression that they're communicating And they are. But behind the back So that's... Yeah. - I love that because I think, I'm not sure if you mention in your book or it's just me and my team discussing it, the problem with a lot of other books is they just go straight into the hacking, but they don't show you any of this stuff. And you make a big emphasis right in the beginning of your books, like cover your tracks. - Again, like a lot of the other books are simply a list of vulnerabilities and simply a list of stuff like techniques that are very good. I mean, you need that. You need to absorb those facts. But those facts are not And so the idea of these books is really to give you the full context. I mean this is what goes the fear, the frustration, the joy, the anticipation, apprehension. So you actually feel it and you can understand some And it demystifies the - I love it. I mean it's brilliant how you've explained it. And I love the way that you shared a bit of your Because I think a lot of will feel that frustration. Like, it's impossible And it's only guys like But I'm glad that you shared, you went for that frustration Windows to a cloud environment. But it's important to do this. I mean, I think it's good because a lot of people like I said. And the difference between I'm glad you've highlighted that. And let's get something In your Hack Like A Ghost, you've got here something about CTFs or I'm using puzzles. Want to talk about that? - Oh my God. Yeah. You want to go... - We've got to have something So what's the difference between - Oh my God. So I wrote a So I did a lot of CTFs. I loved them. And I did them on the side, I did them before actually doing my job. But the thing is a CTF, if it depends on the goal of the CTF. If the goal of the CTF it will not look like it A lot of them are based on guessing, A lot of them are based on that are made by people. And so that's what I don't like. But maybe I just encountered that being said. But I've seen some videos He has a YouTube channel, and he does all these hack the box, solves them. Those are great. I love those. Those are great. I mean, you don't have to guess, there's not that much guessing going on. Like it's really about But it's a lot of CTFs, they're just lazy. They just like, you have to guess that this thing is like that. And there's no basis of getting or justification for So that's what I dislike about it. But that's it really. And yeah, in nature it's not the same. I mean it's like you're solving a puzzle, whereas there, you get in the mind of the person who designed it. And they designed it, not to annoy you. They designed it because they had real constraints in the real world. I mean, managing systems And so you got to make Things not work out exactly like you thought they would. And bam, you have a vulnerability. And so getting there is not it's actually getting into the that system, and then finding what wrong That's the main difference. And that's why I ranted about it. - No. I mean, it's good. What I really like is that you said, okay, this is the problem with them. But then you mentioned IppSec, as a good YouTuber to go and look at. Any other, like CTF... Again, a lot of people watching might be new to the industry, and then they get swept up So I'll put these links below. Those are good ones to watch. Right? Any other like sort of YouTube channels or like places like articles? Like you said you wrote about some stuff. Is there any places that you can recommend people would go to if Or how do you get hands on experience? That's a problem? - Oh yeah. Okay. Well, I can tell, I can share the story of how I did it. - That'd be great. Yeah. - Yeah. That might be But so basically I got out of school after years of advanced math and physics, and I wanted this university that was doing cybersecurity. So that was long time ago, dozen a year ago or something like that. But then I came to this university. And at the end, like, no, cyber at the end of those three years. I'm like, &quot;Shit.&quot; So I skipped 60% of school. And I just got books and And I started by learning So web server, SQL, programming languages, All this kind. So basically I viewed security as a layer that is put on top of these systems. So you need to understand the So that's what I did. So I spent nine months doing just that. And for the hands-on Like, I would read something about, I remember I read book about literally like you had structures It's crazy, crazy book. And then I was just like, &quot;Hey, Let me download an old let me set up that. Oh, Let me set up a my SQL Let's see.&quot; And then after those nine months, I started taking books about securities. So Contract Hack Reloaded, I started reading flac articles. I started watching Def Con And every time I would see something, I would just take it, download it, and try to play it in a And that's literally how it went. And then I started doing some CTFs. I liked it in the beginning. But at some point after I started working, I was like, &quot;Oh man, what I've seen in that CTF.&quot; And so that's the journey that I took. - The best way to learn this And I think that's why people it's not a stretch to learn because you've just got all - Yeah. And the idea is that I see a new Explorer I don't start from scratch, because I already have this space. And it just like takes me 10 minutes to... I just like scroll and, &quot;Oh, let's move on.&quot; So keeping up does not require that big of an investment in time. - So I'm an old guy, but it's amazing. The world just keeps reinventing stuff. So if you've learned technology, just building and building, it makes it so much easier - Okay. So the best example is Kubernetes. I mean, it looks like a really scary technological component. But at the end, at the root of it, when you really dig into it, it's just a combination Linux capabilities, and IP tables. So yeah. - So let me jump on that. If I'm new or I'm starting what advice would you give, say your younger self or someone I wish it was me, but let's say it was someone young. What should I focus on? Do you have any sort of recommendations from your experience? I mean, you've given us But like if you were starting over, try not make the same mistakes, what would you advise me to do? - Don't be intimidated by stuff. I mean, yeah, it looks like It looks like everything But there's really and the exponential nature of it. Like it compounds. Knowledge that you gather, compounds. And what happens is you fail to account for that. You just do a linear But the truth is, it's And so it's very hard for humans to grasp the power of like compounding. You got to bet on that. And so, yeah, read an article today. Read an article the next day. And then continue. And consistency is key, in Just make it a habit to read or do something about security every day, like 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes. And if you enjoy it, and keep going. But any technology that If it's too daunting, dial it down and focus on a subset of it. So I'm going to take Kubernetes. So if you take Kubernetes, the documentation is horrible. It does not explain what it does. It starts with, at the time when I read it, like analogies with mechanicals. And I'm like, what are you talking about? Like, just explain to me But no. There were like about how they came up with their idea and how great they are now. So anyway. And so I had really a I'm like, okay, well Kubernetes is what? Container orchestration, apparently. I see this stuff coming up a lot. So you know what, I'm going Okay. What's a container? Oh, you have LXC, you have I'm going to choose one. What's the most famous one? Docker. Okay, let's go. What do I need? A Linux machine? Okay, let's start. Docker. Google, YouTube. There's a great talk about, I think I link to it in the Hack, like it goes that deconstructs stalker. And yeah, that gives you the foundation. And let's say you deconstruct Docker, and like the guy starts talking or the person starts Linux and stuff. I don't know Linux. You know what, let me take a book on about or see a conference, get enough. And it's okay if I still don't know I will in time, but at least I know something about Linux and containers now. That's the idea. - I love that. And I especially perhaps when you're younger that you want everything, I want it now. But it doesn't always work that way. I love the what you said You build. And I find just like you said, the longer you spend on something, the quicker you're learning that thing, and the more you can learn. - Yeah. Because anyway, the I was reading these books about sleeping and why it is important to sleep. And the neural pathways when you sleep. And so you're not going because anyway, it needs to move from the hippocampus area to So you need sleep anyway. So that helps. Yeah. - Any hot technologies that Like, is there any way that I can, ride is the kind of term I like to use? Or if you were starting like today, what would you focus on? - Like How To Hack Like A Ghost, I wrote it in part because I've seen for such a long time. And it's because these they get hired by big corporations, Fortune 500 that don't And these folks have Windows, right? And so a lot of the talks, black hat, all these good conferences, they focus on Windows. And unfortunately I don't see so much stuff going on in the cloud. I don't see so much stuff going on on AWS. Like AWS, like the new Gartner was out. And it's again the leader in the market. And Microsoft tries to do but it's not as good, it's not as secure, and it's not as professional, I would say. Like right now, if I was speaking to somebody who was just starting security, I was like, &quot;Your resume looks good. But I want to see more cloud. If you want to work with us, like scale up kind of thing, I want to see more containers, That's really what I would advise people. But if you want to work for a and you want to work in that environment, of course, like go Asia, go Windows, go... But just determine what gets you off. And oh, if you want to go with mainframes, please go ahead. I mean, there's enough room for I mean it's a fantastic world. - Yeah. I think you hit It's in life, you've got as much as you can. And if you prefer Windows, then do that. If you prefer mainframes, then do that. Find what excites you. Because your career isn't six months. - Yeah, exactly. And I mean the frustration thing with like young people starting out, they're like, &quot;Oh, I don't I don't know what my passion Here's a thought. I mean, try something. If you don't like it, you don't like it, but at least give it a try. I tried doing sailing. I didn't like it. It was just too much trouble. But then I tried other I tried doing hardware hacking. I'm so bad at hardware hacking by the way. It was not for me. I was like, that's it. And I'm okay with that. I have my own opinions. And Yeah. - Yeah. I love that. I mean, it's so vast. You can become an expert, you were expert in say Windows, and then you had to like You could do the same with hardware. There's so many areas, and the field is so vast Did you want to talk more about that? I'm going to talk a and then we'll wrap it up. - I want to talk about an A lot of people, they focus and they go all the way down like hacking, security reverse, et cetera. But the thing is, there are other skills on the market. And these skills are like software architecture, all this kind of stuff. And it's very good. Go... It's like a T, you can imagine like you go But if you have a thick T on the sides, you can be very, very valuable. And not enough security people talk about this peripheral There was one guy, I think Halvar Flake that went from security to optimization. I was like, that's a very good move. You have this guy that's and now that's very expert in performance and optimization. And it also makes your valuable as a pentester. So it's easy to say, oh just No, it's not easy. - Yeah. Exactly. - Shut up. No, it's not easy. Patching breaks stuff, because there's no accountability, because they just ship stuff. Like versioning is not a thing that is... I've upgraded once a system from a minor version of a system that should be 100 percent compatible. It broke the whole production. And so what is more really critical, this risk of unavailability or the risk of that That's a real trade off And you need to be kind of an expert knowing how to do patch and knowing how to do stuff. So yeah, it gives you more if you actually know all this other stuff related to the computer science world. Yeah. That's the tangent I would say. - No. I think let's talk about that. Are there any specific skill sets or any like areas you think or any certs? Or how do I get that knowledge? Like you said, it's important. What do I do? - So I've seen a lot of security people are very good at scripting. They don't take the time to or really good software or something like that. And these are interesting skills. Or just get into the I mean, try to run machines, try to ensure their availability. Solving these simple Patching, firewall rules, et That's what I was thinking mostly about. - So would you say they need to spend time on the blue team or at Don't just be like red team slash hacking. You need to spend some time like learning what actually happens day to day. - Yeah. In the production environment. I mean you don't need to, but it makes you valuable There's an interesting book called Designing Data Intensive Applications that gives you, for instance, all these databases and how they work and how indexes work and how you reach consensus like craft protocol, et cetera. And incidentally, that's like ETCD database that's et cetera. And it makes you more credible again when you talk about this stuff. Like when you say, &quot;I don't I want to filter outgoing traffic from all my applications.&quot; I mean that's a recommendation by a lot of security experts. Why don't you just filter all of your servers? That's easy. A server does not make a connection. It usually receives one. Well, it's not that simple. You have like plethora of How do you handle change Like, I'm a developer, I Now I need to wait for you And how can I test it and understand that the error that I a filtering rule that I forgot So there's really that whole ecosystem of how can you properly And for that to work, you need to understand all these facets of the computer security world, computer world, sorry, And that's why a lot of really security stays - Yeah. I think it's valid. Because, I mean, it's easy But if you don't of what you're actually asking. I interviewed Tanya who she acts purple. And she was complaining coming in and like a obliterating and then saying, &quot;Oh you need to fix it.&quot; And it's like, do you understand what you're asking that developer to do? - It's so 100 percent right. In my team, we have a philosophy is, you cannot point a vulnerability if you're not part of the I don't care. You say, but you need to learn how skill? Yeah, go two weeks. There you go. You need to learn how to test Make it happen. But yeah, she's 100 percent right. Indeed. It's so easy to write a that says implement this It's very hard to actually do the quality assurance test, understand the business impacts of it all. And the productivity loss having to do that extra with that security requirement. So is it really worth it? I don't know, but you - But if I understand you correctly, and you may correct me if I'm wrong, if I take the time to understand that, I suddenly become much Because just to point out a problem doesn't really help me as a company. I need to know how to fix it, and impact the business, right? - Exactly. That's why a lot of security fails. It's because it's, they're I'm going to audit stuff, Because security is really So I'm going to point stuff, and I'm going to point that plague the company. Yeah. That has zero value. Sorry to say. You need to fix stuff. You need to help fix stuff. Otherwise, you're just a guy and that's not good. - So do you see in the coming years that it changes from like becoming purple rather than like red and blue? Do you think it's going that way, or is that something that needs to happen? - So I'm currently - Good. Yeah. I saw you on Twitter, Can you tell us more about what's coming? - Oh my god. It's the Basically it's the story that joins a company. And it's about destroying all these myths in the security world, that you need user awareness, that somehow user awareness is effective. I'm saying this in the user So take that. So the idea that user that everybody's been waiting for. No, it's not. It's useless. Let's move on. The idea that it's easy to do this kind of patching this kind of stuff. The idea that TLS vulnerabilities are such an important thing. No, it's not. As a company, it's not. I don't care. So all this kind of stuff. And I just put it all in context, and I blurt out all these And I mean, the ISO 27 K, don't I don't care. So all this kind of stuff. And it's made in contrary Like the other books were just like the reader and the hacker. Here is the reader, the security engineer, and the ecosystem of a company. So you have the compliance you have the unfriendly developer who doesn't want to touch their code, you have the friendly guy. So yeah, it was challenging to write. It took me a year and a But yeah. - It's important that And I think what I really liked, one of the things, I but one of the things I really liked about the books that I've got here, is you make this point but then they could come after you. You've got a bold this stuff. And a lot of other books And I think you're highlighting again, another problem that - Yeah. In the security enterprise world. Yeah. I have a lot of build up frustration about a lot of stuff that I see and read. And I mean, as I started just to shout and just to like let it out. So yeah, we'll see. - We're looking forward to that book. Any sort of ETA of when it'll be released? - Probably by end of the year. So end of 2022, right? - Yeah. - Sparc Flow, I really want to thank you for sharing your knowledge and experience, especially with people who and encouraging people who and giving them some ideas Before we wrap up, is there anything else you want to share or talk about? - No. I think we covered it, pretty much. Thank you very much for Yeah. Really loved it. Thank you. - No. Thanks so much for taking the time. And hopefully we can get you back. Maybe when your next book gets released, you can come and rant. I love rants. So come and rant about it, and why it's so important that everyone read it. Sparc Flow, thanks so much. - Thank you very much. (light contemporary music)