After 17 years on the private ready to make its Co-founded by Peter Thiel back in that customers use to integrate volumes spreadsheets, into a central platform where analyzed and interpreted. News of Palantir's plans to go public, that it will be relocating its headquarters put the secretive software Best known for its work with U.S. government agencies like the CIA, the controversially, Immigration and Customs founded following 9/11 with the The core mission of our company always America, the strongest in the world, for prosperity. But in recent years, Palantir Airbus, Chrysler and BP. Commercial customers now make up about revenue, a number that's trended And even though Palantir has never growing as losses have narrowed. Perfectly normal for a software company going into their IPO. The question is, does the economic model eventually produce profits? And you can certainly get there. But while longtime investors are eager for others, confusion remains about what it why their work with law The name Palantir comes from In the fantasy series, Palantiri are users see what is going on in with each other. Founded in 2003 current CEO Alex Karp, Joe Lonsdale, Palantir's tech helps detect unusual datasets, using techniques that the PayPal. The CIA was one of the customer for a number of years. Eventually, other intelligence agencies like the aboard, using the company's customized track and capture terrorists, They cite Afghanistan and Iraq as were mapping networks of insurgents and So they actually were bringing in intelligence agents on the ground were dangerous places. The company's software has been credited Osama bin Laden. And though this certainly has not disputed it. The tech's also helped to uncover out Chinese spyware installed on We work hand-in-hand with most of world. We work hand-in-hand with We're in over 40 countries. Today, the company increasingly customers too. Its first was JPMorgan 2009 to monitor employees However, the partnership ended in Operations Lead used it to Others have continued to Fiat Chrysler now uses Palantir to Airbus uses it to respond accelerating the production of And BP uses it to analyze drilling percent increase in oil production This is a hefty piece of software used for understanding everything that a customers, their supply chains, growth, where their competitors As revenue from the commercial sector Alex Karp has had to rethink We don't look like a We have no salespeople. Almost everyone here is an engineer. Not anymore. Karp's been building And in 2019, the company spent 61 marketing. However, long-standing government the company's revenue as And during the coronavirus crisis, Palantir partnerships too, with the VA, the Britain's National Health Service, helping these CDC, to track the spread of In order to make decisions r ight now, to go, in order to know when and all the analytical models, all the place. Palantir is really designed But especially under the Trump administration, and police departments has raised liberal-leaning Silicon Valley, leading Palantir commitment to law enforcement So I do think this idea of intersecting in a very interesting way of that. Protests against Palantir primarily in response to the Customs Enforcement, which are worth The agency has cracked down on and separating families My house has been protested for Our office has been protested. Many Palantirians protested Some people were so upset These are very hard decisions. Co-founder and board member Peter Thiel famous Silicon Valley backer, donating 1.25 campaign. Karp's politics differ, but he committed to aiding the U.S. government. I've never stopped being I'm not planning to So there are things The core issue though The small island in Silicon Valley that how you eat and monetize all your your country and on what conditions. There are elections. There are rules. They should be enforced. Karp's ethos with police departments, from New York and Chicago, who have used the and predictive policing, a tactic that over-policing of But can Palantir really claim to I understand the desire to be neutral and play by the rules. That is a logically coherent stance regard to who makes the laws. But hold on, if you're willing to money, you can't say while in this policy and politics. But over It doesn't work that way. Other tech of controversial contracts with But Palantir sees that as Peter and I built Google is clearly not Karp also hit back against the culture filing to go public. Here's what he had to say: The more than most about building software, but how society should be organized Our company was founded in Silicon Valley, fewer of the technology In August, the company announced it Colorado, likely both a The Valley has basically sold its soul OK to sell your data, but it's And they didn't want to be part that ecosystem was aligned So what does all this For those who believe in Palantir's And for those with qualms, while The general belief around the Valley particular talk a big game about view as acceptable and unacceptable, and Though Palantir has yet to turn a concern to investors, who are used operating at a loss. What will affect the company's value is a high-growth tech company or That combination makes this a bit of it's not a pure play software model. For most of its history, Palantir customization services for both corporations. It is a very But if they can automate their own sales process and get the biggest customers their operating metrics do As of late, that's what Palantir And now it offers two fixed-fee and Foundry for the private sector. The company's target market is said to 500 million dollars or So the average customer spends over Palantir's product. The top 20 customers account for They say they only So this is fundamentally different than It is not for everyone. In 2015, when Palantir raised its valuation was upwards of But lately, share prices have been valuation range of anywhere from less than They're trying to show investors that they opportunity, that they have a bunch And that's where the skepticism is. The true value will be clarified at completes its direct listing, a process that that the company won't It will just unleash those Thus, the shares will be priced based trades higher than expected, that value shareholders. I think the Palantir IPO investors and others that serving the business is going to be worthwhile. Karp certainly hope so, saying that the The country with the most important the rules. That country should be Palantir doesn't do business with China, comes to AI. So if we bring If we bring our D plus game because island where this seems like a