My lords, ladies, and those that lieth betwixt. Tis evident nor sensation nor the passions be ruled instead by reason, sovereign of all [sniff] It must needs be remarked, that the power despotical acquisitions of conquerors, but they most resembleth the lobster. Ugh, Foppington, are we doing this again? Lady Foppington. I'm so happy to finally meet the real you. Enchante. I'm not gonna kiss your hand you freak, That's not what they were saying at the Clock me Amadeus. Don't break the fourth wall. I'm trying to make a video about postmodernism. Get out of my drawing room you 18th century So much for the tolerant Jacobins. Hm! Reason. Power. Truth. These are the kinds of topics that I simply Unfortunately we have to talk about them because So who's Jordan Peterson? [Sigh] Well, he's a psychology professor at the the alarm about how protecting transgender surely lead to Stalinism. Since then he's been touring North America David Brooks called him the most influential and his self-help book 12 Rules for Life is I'm starting to think we may need to take He's got a ton of fans on YouTube, and I because I wanna talk. A lot of leftists who have responded to Peterson much, he's often caricatured, avoided, or where Cathy Newman keeps repeating back very he says. So you're saying that by and large women deserve? No, I'm saying that's one component-- You're saying that women aren't intelligent No-- You're just saying these things though to I mean you are a provocateur. You're like the Alt Right that you hate You're saying that we should organize our I think to people watching this it comes off ideas. But I'm not afraid of his ideas. I'm not afraid of anything. I just smoked a bunch of fuckin PCP. [heavy breathing] Daddy. So I spent the lectures and podcasts and reading his books, him. Clearly he has real talent as a public speaker His book 12 Rules for Life echoes past bestsellers Effective People or Rick Warren's The Purpose-Driven The difference is that Peterson takes basic for yourself" and "don't envy other trappings of psychology, philosophy, Jungian He's telling us a pretty classic story: to sustain you through suffering, so you need But I knew that already. I learned it at the AA meetings I refuse to These are like basic insights of world philosophy But they're insights that today's youthssss because not enough of them are alcoholics. Or at any rate they haven't heard them in to a lot of people Peterson's ideas seem And I don't really object to any of this Most of Peterson's fans are young men, and into shape, and if Peterson can do that, more I mean sometimes boys just need a daddy. And sometimes girls do too. But there's a big problem here. And the problem is that all this life coaching political agenda. Peterson advocates an ethics of self-help to private life, but as a replacement for as totalitarian and evil. There's no comparison between Mao and a Why not? The philosophy that's guiding their utterances Now Peterson doesn't use the word progressive enough. His new, scarier word is Postmodern neo-Marxism. Now we have to be careful not to confuse postmodern conspiracy theory about Marxist intellectuals Surely this is not the same thing as that, Right? So look: I genuinely do not think Jordan Peterson And you may quote me on that. But I'm wondering, if it's not a fascist plotting to destroy the West, then what is Well JP, that's what I'd like to talk So Jordan--sorry, Dr. Peterson, Professor, And for once I'd like to actually treat I think it deserves-- [Sultry sax music] Mm, that's good, it's a good temperature. Hand me the oil, would you daddy? [beeps and boops] Thanks Daddy. It's really an honor to bathe with a public [beeps and boops] You know, I never like to argue in the bath, things I like about you. The first thing is that I think some of your slightly different opinions, the gratuitous politics of resentment--are, within a certain I even made a video about that a long time the dysphoria, please don't watch it. But my worry is that you're leading an international localized problem, and I worry that some of be hurt by that backlash. Like fine, you hate postmodern intellectuals if your backlash also targets gender equality, be bad right? [beeps and boops] I also like that you tell people how to live I mean I personally hate taking orders outside a shepherd, and you've really stepped up You know on the left we don't really tell We tell them what not to do. Don't exploit the workers, do not do blackface. I guess we tell people what pronouns to use rule compared to some of your rules like how to criticize things. [beeps and boops] The last thing I like is that you talk about I was watching a video where you and a couple Aristotle and the meaning of life and I thought that kind of thing, all we talk about is how And that might not be enough, because people I mean personally I don't give a shit, I'm three seasons of Strangers With Candy until But other people like Dostoyevsky, Camus, they have this need to have purpose in the about patriarchy. I guess it's easier not to complain about that's making you suffer. But I do think an education that only teaches We spend four years teaching undergraduates you're educated now, good luck getting a And that really kind of sucks. But you know I think that's a point that activism to Stalin. [beeps and boops] I feel like this has come across a little See this is why you've got to use a firmer If you don't establish dominance I'm just They use all this compassion language, and that posturing. It does nothing but mask the underlying drive And I've just been starting to review their to grade eight. It's pure social justice postmodernism. The people who hold this doctrine, this radical racial identity or sexual identity or gender they've got control of most low to mid-level as well, but even in the United States where-- [Sultry sax music] [Summer crickets] So you gotta give it to JP, when he says "stand he means it. So Jordan Peterson has succeeded largely by political correctness often feels stifling; and overreactive; angry transsexuals are telling But once he draws you in with these inviting His central political message is that leftist initiatives, and corporate HR departments of postmodern neo-Marxism to destroy Western nightmare. Now there's just no avoiding that this idea Marxism or cultural Bolshevism theory, but I dwell on it I'll sound like I'm saying think I'm crazy. Look I'm not afraid of psychologists... I have nothing to hide. So let's just try not to think about that it true that postmodern neo-Marxism is out Well, why don't we analyze the concept of We all know what Marxism is, the idea that between workers and capitalists, and that Some college professors definitely do believe so... that... okay... So what is postmodernism? Well, it's the vaguest word in the English Some people try to explain it by listing all then trying to guess what they have in common. That's basically what the YouTuber ArmouredSkeptic So many daddies in this video. We should invite them all to a barbecue, complain I've had worse evenings. I don't really think there is a common thread Basically postmodernism is everything that But when Jordan Peterson says postmodernism Tarantino. He's talking about postmodern philosophy. So what's that? Well [sigh] basically it's a kind of skepticism. Not YouTube skepticism, but actual skepticism, humans can really know things about the world. Now skepticism is obviously not a new idea, but more specifically postmodernism is skepticism So what's modernism? What's what? What are words? What's anything? I'm gonna divide modernism into two periods First there's early modernism. Early modernism is the philosophy developed says that we can form universal theories about AKA the scientific method. Now that turns out to work pretty well for crystals and how to medically reconfigure was pointed out by David Hume, one of the the only philosophers I can actually put up racist and also Scottish. THIS IS A CALL OUT. Hume argued that from a strictly empirical important things like morality, causation, of things you can observe. Anyway then the late modernists came along about those things anyway. So the late modernists were a bunch of boring tried to discover universal scientific truths So for example you have psychoanalysis which of unconscious drives, which is of course And you got Marxism with its analysis of bourgeoisie anthropology which started out with racist of we're-all-the-same universalism. Jordan Peterson is right at home with the His first book Maps of Meaning is an attempt and create order out of chaos through universal a product of our species' evolutionary past. Boy this is a lot of explaining. It's so much explaining it's triggering I'd better put on some longer nails. Nails? Is that all womanhood means to you? ... mhmm! Postmodernism is skepticism about modernism. So whereas modernists try to create eternal and humanity, postmodernists say actually For example the French postmodernist Michel "Faux-coo" Sargon! You little goose! Michel "Faux-coo" wrote intellectual histories criminal justice in which he argued that we progressions toward liberty and scientific that power orders our institutions and populations. The other postmodernist I've actually read if you wanted me to read you, you should have Rorty advocates an attitude toward knowledge caution with which we should regard our own for describing and understanding the world Alright, that's enough explaining. And my nails are done, check it out! Do you enjoy having long glamorous nails, at them with barely concealed visceral rage? Well I have a solution for you! The bisexual manicure! One hand for the V. One hand for the D. Both for degeneracy! It's absolutely filthy! So we've got all the pieces on the table, On the one hand we have Marxism, a fundamentally condition in economic terms. On the other hand we have postmodernism, a to know any universal truths about anything. On the face of it, it would seem these two And there is an extensive history of dispute Sartre calling Foucault "the last barricade And of course as we all know, when Foucault [Internationale] So where does Peterson get off talking about Well, it's true that a lot of postmodernists the phrase could just refer to that continuity. But that's not what Peterson means. It's clear from the way he uses the term nonsensical than it initially appears. Peterson uses the term postmodern neo-Marxism and Marxist intellectuals, but also liberal HR departments that care about diversity, including feminists, LGBT, and civil rights Basically it's the entirety of the modern Now I've already mentioned how Marxism and Marxism is a big story about a struggle between is skepticism about big stories like this and proletariat. But that's not the only tension in Peterson's Anyone with any experience in leftist circles activists are constantly at each others' of being bourgeois dogs who want more female drone pilots, while the activists accuse the no more woke on gender and race issues than Most often these accusations are correct because all. And then there's also the conflict between Why does everyone think that identity politics There's nothing postmodern about it. Identity politics advocates for rights, equality, women, people of color, and gay and trans This kind of activism presupposes that these for political organizing. Postmodernists do kind of the opposite; they gender, sexual orientation--are contingent oppressive. This is why conventional feminist activists Because the postmodern feminists want to show is contingent and potentially oppressive, and undermine it. And then the conventional feminist activists We need the concept of womanhood to organize How are we supposed to do that if we destabilize And in turn, the postmodern feminists say--well, most famous postmodern feminist ever: "Is it not a sign of despair over public bringing with it those who would 'police' And this is not a call to return to silence of a category that can be called into question, If you take the first part of this quote out Jordan Peterson could have said. The difference is that JP actually does think does he? It's hard to tell what he thinks. More on that in a moment. I bring all of this up to show that 1, the as a unifying concept of the left is nonsensical, that must go unquestioned. There are sophisticated debates about this Peterson either doesn't know that or doesn't He uses the term postmodern neo-Marxism to force bent on destroying Western civilization, who can't stop squabbling with each over The only reason I can think of that the Left force is if you're so far to the right that and social advancement of disadvantaged groups But is that what Jordan Peterson is saying, racial and sexual minorities? Well, it's difficult to say, because while for these movements to 20th-century mass murderers, position. I was maybe too harsh on Cathy Newman earlier. She came out of that interview looking bad, Peterson's rhetorical strategy involves true, while at the same time implying something For instance, Jordan Peterson will make a between men and women," which is obviously But he'll say it the context of a conversation about the underrepresentation of women in government, which implies what exactly? So how do you respond to this? Well, either you fall into the trap of arguing have to guess at what he's implying, in him, which is exactly what happened with the The most famous moment where Peterson does So he starts by saying: There's this idea that hierarchical structures And then he goes on to say that lobsters exist patriarchy by millions of years, so, checkmate You're saying that we should organize our I'm saying that it's inevitable that there and human beings organizae their structures. The problem with that is that no one has ever "Western patriarchy." This is such a massive strawman that it overshadows suggested by Cathy Newman in this interview. No one on the left denies that there are some natural hierarchies. Even the anarchists, whose whole thing is the abolition of unjust hierarchies. No one wants to abolish lobster hierarchies, those of gender, race and economics lobster case is a complete non sequitur. I mean you could use Peterson's lobster literally any hierarchy or authority, no matter You could be an 18th century republican arguing turn around and say, "Well hierarchies are God save the lobster queen." [God Save the Queen] Oh dear god. My lords, ladies, and those that lieth betwixt. The present rumor of republican rumblings you together. Let us remind you that nature hath so made the than the others. Therefore let not the power of our crustacean And as for parliamentarians, well, let them Very good. Thank you. I need new roommates. So I've argued that Peterson is invoking as the supervillain in a childishly simple leftists are out to destroy "the West." Now it's time to inspect the other side What exactly is "the West"? Well there's an academic usage of the term tradition that runs from ancient Athens to Now a true postmodernist would want to deconstruct how the very idea is racist and exclusionary and all that kind of thing but we don't So I'm just going to grant that the West thinks about it. For Peterson the West seems to be equivalent each human has a spark of divinity, and he values," a term more popular with conservative Peterson contrasts Judeo-Christian values as anti-Western, collectivist, relativist This framing of a conflict of ideas in terms is inaccurate and scaremongering. Marxism is Western philosophy. Postmodernism is Western philosophy. If you're really concerned about preserving tradition you should be ranting against the Likewise there is no feature of "SJW ideology" The very idea of people requesting different exactly the kind of thing a person who values be on board with. You could even argue that Marxism is an extension for human progress, science, and liberty. I think a lot people like listening to Jordan but they don't seem to like reading any If you did read it you'd find a surprising to "Judeo-Christian" values. Much of Plato's political dialogues are suggesting that, far from being an invention popular worldview among ancient Athenian pederasts. Our favorite Enlightenment philosopher David only to be the slave of the passions." Literally feels over reals. And meanwhile his contemporary the Marquis filling the churches with scat porn, and ushering so decadent and depraved I'm not even allowed This is the Enlightenment, not postmodernism, West" as Peterson's soggy Bible-patting But again, and I really can't stress this I make YouTube videos because I enjoy mood So... what do you people want from me? The lobster queen is dead, long live the queen. [ Zoe Blade ] God save our lobster queen God save the queen Send our queen crustaceous From the late Cretaceous Long to reign over us God save the queen! [Ominous music] ...and I think you would agree there's a of all sides, and I think there's totally that can help uh that are-- Where are these people? There's a YouTuber that I'm actually quite mean to misgender her because I think she know if you've heard of this YouTuber who's I've seen the name come up every now and Totally disagree with everything this person seems very reasonable, educated, academic, Hello Dave.