Eight months ago, I built this Wildlife Pond to try In this video, I'll share the whole story of how and thriving ecosystem. The initial idea for this small Wildlife Pond from some spare materials. This photography so it had steeped raised edges to since there was only one way in and one way out the water. Over the next few months, I watched just and it was during this time that I decided I pond that's more wildlife friendly that doesn't features and native wildflowers. Fast forward March melted the snow and I broke ground on my the grass and then dug out the different levels which will help keep the water temperature more place for submerged plants to grow and for frogs, Once I finished digging up the pond, I immediately installed a liner of this size and I didn't really punctures or major issues so I'm very grateful still frozen so we had to fill it up one barrel at of rocks around the deep end so the sand doesn't to the top I used the leftover sand to fill in pond. I then dug a small hole about three and observation blind. I didn't want anything too fancy of the blind would be for sitting and one side for make a small garden on the roof of the blind. I of my previous pond build and planted them here netting to cover the exterior of the blind, and can see the old one in the back is smaller and pond, I transferred some cattails and bulrushes to do was to set up all the wildlife habitat. I removing as much grass as possible. This is where the worst part of the entire build. I didn't mind the and never-ending. I'm sad to say that I lost 30 end of it, it wasn't even a good job! For my own be okay and I slapped a &quot;nature will figure But on a brighter note, some of the up which gave me extra motivation to finish I added some perches, brush piles, nest boxes, and I even built this small floating structure with nutrients and clean the water. It's not the nicest, around the pond establish. The only thing left to about: seeding the wildflower meadow. I spread area around the pond, including some species of birds. But before the seeds could germinate, we got know it at the time, but this storm flooded the gathered into low spots around the pond. This meant evenly spaced out. But luckily, nature doesn't moved in I saw that some of the bare spots in the plant species. It was around this time when I first were slowly starting to come together. Diving the first to arrive. Eastern Phoebes would use the were checking out nest boxes, Brown Thrashers were were coming down for the first time to drink and chives I transplanted were one of the first plants important food source for insects and there were pollen. Which ultimately attracted one of the Even if you don't like spiders, jumping spiders are To see just how fast they are, here's a clip of one I couldn't even focus before it took down this slow down the footage a little bit. Here's the its large eyes to detect any potential prey and moment to attack and deliver the final paralyzing But the jumping spiders weren't the only Tree Swallows were also enjoying the abundance other nest boxes, this pair had chosen one of The female would collect grasses and roots to guard and occasionally collect feathers to work, before they could even lay their first egg time of the year, many birds nests are raided by Sadly, the tree swallow pair didn't return to the first nesting birds of the pond scared off, the of a healthy ecosystem. And the more time I spent become the healthy one that I had envisioned. There started breeding, Eastern cottontails were forging zipping around, and I even got my first videos of a excited I was for the success we've had so far, But the summer had arrived, and it was ready to work paid off. The warm weather mixed with some to take over. Most of the empty spaces on the and we started to get our first pops of color in a species called lamb's quarter. Much of them were colonies of aphids. The ants protect the aphids the juiciest parts of the plant. In exchange, the will produce a sweet waste product called honeydew. substance, giving them a reliable food source without any ant protectors, the majority of them larva. Ladybugs did a great job at managing this find any aphids around the pond. Around this time, was getting very high. Typically, birds don't feel to mow a section behind the pond to open it up as did a 50% water change to the pond to try to reduce a new feature to the area by building a dust bath. with sand and made sure they were out in the open the day, the first birds were starting to use to maintain good feather quality and the sand While I was building this, I saw a male Tree that I set up. And after inspecting, I realized it the red squirrel. But this time they had a lot more already sitting on five eggs. It didn't take long period they grew rapidly and eventually built first successful nest at the pond. But during this These Eastern Bluebirds were so secretive that I couple of days before the young fledged. Luckily birds around. The wildflowers were in full swing The milkweed plants in particular were home to Monarch Butterfly Caterpillars, and some of our attracted a variety of moths, flies, and predators getting devoured by small flocks of Goldfinches, The cattails and bulrushes exploded, and I'd often on the leaves. The roots also continued to spread that I was able to see all the way to the bottom when I looked through the water was the lack of really managed their population well. When mosquito onslaught of predators in the water like diving If they're lucky enough to emerge as adults, they bats, and predatory insects like damselflies and mosquitoes in a day, and that's why I don't really lot of the different species and by the time the starting to decline. The fall was probably the on around the pond. I spent about two months out of lot of time went towards another big project. Which finally share it with you in my next video! So quickly realized that something had wreaked havoc was all ripped up, the cattails were trampled, and Throughout the season they had gotten used to me startled. But now, with any movement they would My best guess is they were being hunted by and on top of the floating structure in the past. catch one of these frogs. I also noticed a lot missing from the pond, which led me to believe that There had been a few hanging around throughout Like I mentioned earlier, predation is these snakes hunting just goes to show Eventually, I started to do some cleanup and plants around the pond were well established. I the water to provide some extra cover for the kept seeing this kitten hanging around. Now I've but since we have a fierce and menacing black around. But this one showed up a few times and counterproductive to attract wildlife to the I really wasn't sure what to do about it but funny adopting a cat. So the fact that this one showed of help, it was hard to ignore. So I found a can of we can habituate this kitten and eventually bring plate near the gate and walked away and before Each time I gave her a little tuna and slowly but the second she caught a whiff of the tuna, When she got close, I could see just how little fat of her fluff but you can see her hip bones were Over the next week, we were in a routine where I bought her some actual cat food in gravy, Between her feeding times, I was back at the The first was to mow and trim the wildflower do at least once a year. This will help cut space that could eventually overtake all the that they couldn't even stand upright, so I uncut so they can provide seeds to wildlife above time inside of the blind filming the birds that standing portion of the blind was really helpful. habitat of the pond, not just at the water. So of the area which made it a lot easier to follow around to putting in a roof, I could also watch the The migrating songbirds would often arrive of the group would change day by day, but it was there were White-crowned Sparrows, Song Sparrows, there were Eastern Phoebes, Eastern Bluebirds, and the seeds from the plants I left standing, as well they were busy foraging, the insectivores would flushed. Bird-wise, this was the busiest the pond on getting enough energy for their migration, this While I was standing in the blind I also small hole under the pallets. It didn't take me There was about four Chipmunks living around the seeds on the ground. After about a week, most things had really started to quiet down around the kitten every morning and every evening. She was and more comfortable with me. So I finally decided didn't even flinch. She just seemed so happy to get for some head scratches. I had to leave again for me updates about the cat and when I got back, the say we successfully brought her home and she's now With winter settling in and the pond now frozen over, the whole season. It was incredibly rewarding to think help throughout the past eight months. Whether it or another one completing its entire life cycle at native habitats, whether big or small, can quickly