SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk Can you do it yourself? Also want you to sit down there. Sit there? - No , you. This is Damla, she's four. And that's me, Anne. Damla cannot speak so well because she was neglected by her parents. That's why she lives here now, in the children's I think bringing someone into the world and then bearing responsibility for so many is one of the greatest challenges in life. I don't have any children yet, and to be honest, I'm scared of them. Where does that go again, can you show me Um, there. Then you can take it. - No, you de there. But then you take that. - No, you get out Where? - There. Here? I don't have that much experience with children. I thought I'd go straight to hard school. Because children live in the children 's village who didn't have it easy before. Potential problem children, some also say What kind of children are they? How do you And above all: What kind of people are they are giving the children a home again? That's what this film is about. * quiet music * It's summer vacation, means: all-round care Especially exhausting in Corona times, as the groups should stay at home to themselves We had ourselves tested beforehand so that ... Once again. Look, I found something! Jeanet Wolfgram has been a family group leader in the Albert Schweitzer Children's Village She is practically the &quot;substitute mom&quot; for (all) Beep, beep, beep, we love each other. (everyone) Bon appetit. Family group, that is, Jeanet and the children live together around the clock. Only supported during the day by employees In technical jargon this is called &quot;family because the real families of the children Sexual abuse, drug use, excessive demands. Jeanet Wolfgram often learns this very precisely With their newcomers, the brothers Mark, Finn is a so-called addiction problem. I still have I-Pods. - You also. That is practical. - I've got money in there. I have one too. - That's 6.66 euros in it. Do you know what to buy today? Is that your * incomprehensible * to whom? Your mom? Will you see them soon? - It's coming in two Ah, now you're saving for it. This is actually her birthday present. I screwed her that I ... * incomprehensible * - Mh, okay. Blood is obviously thicker than water, no It doesn't matter who is tying the laces every and all that. So, you can wear them. Do we want to ride our bikes now? First, look, that's the wrong foot. Do you see? - Shall I help? Come on, I'll do it. I'll do it quickly. OK! Ready to go? - Here we go. It is sometimes difficult for outsiders to what kind of relationship you have with the How would you describe it You have to walk the tightrope of giving children who have suffered some form the feeling of a super important person they You're a substitute mom. In the sense that you give the children and a feeling of emotions and warmth and security. Our children, especially in my group , often lacked that at home. That's why I would describe myself as a surrogate But I wouldn't want to describe myself as Yes. The goal is that the children can go back Isn't that difficult when you envision them going back there, at least for a while. And you know they're not doing well there. Right from the start, I was aware that if willing to create a family life with the children, that the parents would get their children in good cooperation . That's part of my professionalism. * quiet music * I find it very difficult to give the children while maintaining professional distance. * quiet music * very good. Around a third of all children in the family come back to their birth parents or other at some point . This is often emphasized here: It is the ultimate goal, even if something As soon as it seems safe again in the parents' , the children should go back. * calm music * * calm music * I'm not sure if this is really the best solution. But that seems to be the most important thing Just come in here now. Do you remember how it was when you came here? Yes. - And how was that? Well. Mama didn't want to come. Well, mom wasn't allowed to come. That was too bad. Do you miss mom - Yes. How is it here for you? Well. And at home? Good as well. Much has apparently transfigured. Do we want to play memory? - We can do that. Can you imagine staying here forever? No I want to go home to mom. Mh. When can you go back? - I do not know. The youth welfare office will decide that. You are. How often do you see mom - Every four weeks. Is that enough for you? Medium. So, mom should come more often. Yes? Can she not? Or does she have no time? She mustn't ... Why are you breaking this? - I always do that. Do you always break things? - Sometimes when Hmm - but I've got glue in here. Yes, we'll do that in a moment. We'll finish Then we glue it. You're not angry right now, But. - Why? Because I can't go home. But that is not supposed Finn feels powerless. It makes him angry that others rule over him. If I imagine that I was suddenly taken away from my parents, even if for my own protection ... I would have broken more than game packaging, But I don't know exactly what happened at Sometimes the brothers tell stories from their previous everyday lives the children shouldn't be aware of. But the next moment they are locked to protect I've been bothered by that for a long time. At the same time, I want to free myself from compassionate glasses and take the children There are a total of five family groups on I'm getting to know two of them this week. This morning I'm next door, with Anna Seidel. * Laugh * I want to do that today. # The robbers, the robbers, they all rant # The plates, the plates, the plates are empty. # Good Appetite. # All. - What do you want? I want ... * phone * What do you want? - The cocoa. So? - One more thing. Even more? Can you do it? * loud calls * - Sh! So, let's eat now. This is what we bought * Background noise at breakfast * Lina lives here too. Are you on here somewhere too? - No, I wasn't Why did you leave the other group? Because the family group leader was sick from And yes, then the children had to go to other Then I just came to Anna. Then I should actually be in a different group, why I yelled at the educator all night. Then I was called at seven in the morning She definitely wants to see you right away. Then we settled that. Lina doesn't seem like a systemsprenger to For example, children are named in youth welfare who cannot be easily integrated into the help Who wander from facility to facility, fall In Lina's 11-year-old life that was previously: call care, foster family, on-call care, first group in the children's village, second The family group should at best be the last stop for such children . At least with children like Lina, who cannot She is an orphan. I did that too. How do you envision this in the future? Do you want to stay here forever? What are I would also like to have family group leaders. Yes? - Mmm. I want to make my own group. And a family of your own? Do you want that Nope. - You do not want to? No - Why not? Because I would rather take in children. Than having children yourself? - Nope. I'd rather take in others. - Why? Because that's unjust then. What do you mean, &quot;unjust&quot;? So ... Injustice maybe because some children don't * soft music * * soft music * How is the relationship? You wouldn't call yourself a mother, would No - Why is that important? Because all children have a mom or have families. Grandma Grandpa. And I'm not family. They have them, and they also come to visit. Mamas already exist. I am Anna. So we don't want to compete with our parents. But do the children always understand that? Yeah, I think that's very clear. But you may have to ask the children that. Is Anna something like a mother to you? Or how is that? You've been with Anna for * Heckling * Yes, actually. And then there is grandma and I've already asked you that too. - You asked I want more! But Anna said she was a foster mom who shouldn't be called mom. * Laughter * That's roughly how it is. You only have one You can't replace them either. On Monday, Tuesday ... - On Tuesday, exactly. Sleep one more time, then your parents come Not sleep. - Of course you're going to sleep You didn't want to sleep yesterday. Mom, take a nap. Sleep one more time, then mama comes. * soft music * Anna and the others are totally open to me , which really helps me. They also allowed me to question the children At the beginning I was unsure whether I could All children here are in psychotherapeutic Jason too. You've been here six years now, so since you Yes. - Where were you before? Before that I was with my father, but that He was often working. And my stepmother, she never had time either. And do you miss him - Yes, yes. And what are you doing then? Can you call I give him time and all. And he should call And is that okay with you - And that's better Better for me too. Not that I expect him to come or something and that that has already been agreed and That probably happened in the past, right? Yes. Then I give him time and he can call And when was the last time he was there? - A A year ago? - 2019 Easter. And have you had contact since then? No Not even for a birthday or something? - Mmm, * Lego box is rummaged through * And your mom? - My mother is no longer alive. OK. When did she die? How old were you there I was five then. And then you went to see your father ... What did she have? - I don't know, she was Then you were with your father until you turned And then you came right here? Yes. I came here a month before my ninth birthday . Do you remember how it was for you? Anstr ... uh, kind of terrifying. Tell me why I went to my therapy with my dad. You had the therapy before. Yes, but with another therapy in Rodenroth. The youth welfare office was there and took Right away? - Without discussing anything * Lego box is rummaged through * Then I landed here. How was it for you in the beginning? I was often in the room building with Lego. Building with Lego, I block my stress. And that still helps you today? Yes. I'm not the one who plays in communities You'd rather do something for yourself. How is such a family group for you then? Because there is a lot of community here? That's okay as long as it's not with strange whom I don't know very well. Community sports and such, that's not for Ready, briefly assembled. Mega good. The on button. - Even with an on and off button. Jason shows me his room: toys, certificates and family photos, for example of his siblings. And there is my stepbrother Aaron. And Aaron is at home or what? Yes. - Okay. Does he live with your papa? - Yes. Because the mother can take care of him? Or The mother can take care of him. - And not No There were three children there now. Me and two others. And then they decided: the oldest has to go. I am the oldest. I only found out where I was in therapy. I wanted to know what systemsprenger are. So far I haven't met any. I meet children with broken biographies who struggle to be brave, with medication if necessary. Mondays only? No right? - When someone is It always goes from the beginning. What kind of tablets are these? - These are * Shouts * This is a Medikenet to promote concentration. And risperidone for impulse control. When I started working, I thought, Oh, medication. Full of opponents for now. - They have side I agree. I definitely didn't think so. Then I'll have the first child to be given I am talking now. You saw such a difference. She could n't get dressed, wash or brush her without medication . She was completely beside herself. It worked Then I got into it more. It is desirable that at some point it will But sometimes you need support to get into a routine. That's up here, Finding Nemo. I just saw that. Here! We have to go dark now. Do you have a sleep light That or? Shall we turn this on? Surprisingly, you can also have quiet moments &quot;Quiet, that's all right. Dad is here,&quot; said and buried the egg in his fin. &quot;I promise nothing will ever happen to you, Do you see where - There. I agree. From that day on, Nemo's father always took Mainly because he was born with a lucky fin. It was smaller than normal fins. That's why he didn't swim as skillfully as Even if these moments are only brief. No, I'm not going to bed! - Why, surely! Nope! - Clear! You are pretty tired. I'm not. - You want to be fit again tomorrow. But I don't want to go to bed! John versus the adults: 1 to 0. It's eight thirty, but I feel like two thirty in the morning. I'm overwhelmed, overstimulated: So many people around me and I in a role that I obviously can't quite get on with yet. But I can go straight to my guest apartment and I'm out for today. Anna Seidel cannot do that. (Damla through the baby monitor) Annaaaaaaaa! Annaaaaa, Annaaaaaa, Annaaaaaa. Damla ... Damla, you need to sleep. La la la ... - Annaaaaaaa ... sleep! I'll give you Eduard now. Good night! Good night sleep well! Anna is going to sleep now and you are sleeping If you don't react, she'll come and knock. * knocks on the table * And how often does that happen? Two times during the week. Otherwise it'll work fine with a Then when do you end work? My goal is always eight o'clock. But a quarter to nine or longer is realistic. So you can de facto, unless you are free, not go out during the week. Yes. If I have plans, I'll get a night shift. Like Eduard? - I agree. But you can't ... How often can you &quot;order&quot; night duty? As often as I want, but then my lessons are The hours are then somewhere empty. The employees have so and so many hours a depending on the proportion of their jobs, I cannot order infinitely. I have to think twice: when do I really need And when do I prefer to do it myself? Depending on the hours you have ... You don't I don't have any. I don't have any target Just a monthly salary? - I agree. I don't have a time card or anything. If I were to start calculating, I would realize that maybe I am no longer correct. It's tough. - Yes exactly. But do you sometimes miss having more evenings When I'm on vacation, I notice that I'm already can just do what I want, that I don't have &quot;Here then and that,&quot; but that I'm completely As a rule, I just go away, to my parents, or to the North Sea or to friends, because this is simply not a vacation here. Hello! Parents visit the sisters Gulferes and Damla. They live in separate family groups because things don't work out that way between Hello! - Hi Papa! Once a month, parents are allowed to see their but only when accompanied by a supervisor. The sisters have been in the Albert Schweitzer Children's Village First it's Gulferes' turn, then Damla, so that both can get their full attention. Both children are learning to speak, the four-year-old When she got to the children's village, she because there was fluid behind her eardrum. At that time she hardly had any teeth in her Since an operation she has understood almost at least in German. That removes them even more from their parents. * speak Turkish * Wait, Damla, wait! (Accent) Three children, one boy, two girls. Ah! And where is the boy? - There, Frankfurt. With you or elsewhere? - To a family. And how old is he? - One year. I would really like to have a real conversation What is it like when my own children no longer How did it come to this? Is there any plan to get it back? But it wouldn't be fair, because of the language not to take time away from the two hours a month with the children. * Honk * hello! Hello! - Yes? No! Honk. How does the radio go? This is about to start ... I think it's broken. * Music * Yes! - Unfortunately it works. * Music getting louder * Oh, no, come on, You still have to be able to understand something. No, it doesn't have to be! - We always have Yes, but not in terms of volume. We are still John is extremely good at pulling my patience. (shrill sound) Huu huuuu! John, show Anne how you do &quot;Om&quot;! Ommm! Schalalalommm! She taught me that. How long can you do this - Ommmmmmmmmmmm ... no longer? - Why are you so excited? You were already cycling yesterday! No! You definitely leave that. - Ommmm! I'm going on the bike tour of John and his Because he brings a lot of unrest to the family John often receives individual care. Were you only dear when you were with Anna? Why was that like that? How long have you been home then? And that didn't work out so well? Why? But not at all with Anna. How come Who is the most important person in your life Anna and Eduard? What are your plans for the future? Do you want to stay in the children's village And then? How is it for you when you think about it? Come next to me! Can you do it? Or is it too I can do it. - Otherwise you'll lower the I can do it. John lives a bit in his own world and not he says has to be right. He's the one in the group who demands my patience He needs a lot of attention, a lot more than any other child. I'm not so sure: will children like John even fit into such family But where else should he go? Why John has so little impulse control is not really diagnosed. It is not so easy for children like him to He didn't exist with his mother. Then what do you always know about it? Mostly not that much. With John, it's a voluntary act. This means that the mother sought help because she has three small children. It was difficult with them. The mom then turned to the youth welfare office. John landed with us. The mom works very reliably and accompanies school, doctor's appointments, visits once She calls reliably. That's something special. We have also had children who we only met when they were taken into care, like Jason, Then we didn't even know him before. He just moved in and was here. Then we first try to make the child feel good that we don't want anything bad. It is also very helpful when the other children are there. Because of course we also have children who who can then say: &quot;Yes, I'm somehow here too.&quot; &quot;And that's what happened to me.&quot; They'll The children all have one thing in common, namely that they do not live at home. What is the biggest challenge for you or for When children come into situations where they to endure it and not to take it personally. Because it gets personal: &quot;You stupid whore!&quot; You think: I just didn't do anything. Then you often don't even know: What was the trigger for the situation? Why is it kind of escalating now? Because maybe five times before it went well. And then suddenly it is different not to take Sure, I can tell: They probably react more than you know from children who have not had special experiences, like here, who may not have impulse control like John. I can tell that he's having problems with What is the most important thing or which are most important so that the child is well Structure is very important. This classic: nine o'clock breakfast, half six o'clock dinner, a scaffold that you can And for the children: I'm here and I'll stay here, no matter if swear and say: &quot;Get out of here!&quot; I'll stay Or I'll stay close. I might go out. I'll be at the door if something is wrong. Just not having the feeling: She can't take it. She leaves me alone now. That's also a test: Did she just say that or will they really Because often the experience is school, kindergarten, that there was often change. When we have children ... It's not always like John, where mom says: Yes, he 'll come right here. Rather, they are children who have already various facilities, systems, residential groups, and who may not have gone well. Are we actually children becoming system blowers? I don't know if the term systemsprenger fits. I don't think that the child is always the maybe it is the system that is blown up. Why? O God! You ask questions while peeling potatoes! When we have children, where the term systemsprenger fit, we always try to orient ourselves somehow to see: What is the need behind it? Because someone who shows such abnormalities There is usually a need or a wish behind it: seen or loved or whatever. So the abnormalities are not just there because the child somehow doesn't feel like But there is something behind the behavior. The supervisors know that. That makes it easier (screams) Warning! * screeches and laughs * So, John, that's Please come out! - Nope! Out now! - I'll stay inside. No, get out! - Move! John? Move your tired limbs! Take off your clothes! - Nope. I have to admit: I find it difficult to always understand the behavior of children, Children like John really only show me my own limits: lack of empathy perhaps? Impatience in any case. At least I could work Before I get to that point, I don't think I should have kids yet. Because I reproach the parents of the children apparently not asking this question before they brought their children into the Personally, I therefore don't think that the should always be that the children come back Some things shouldn't be forgotten and nobody can just leave them behind, I think. Back in the neighboring house. Jeanet Wolfgram only worked for years as a in the Albert Schweitzer Children's Village. Now she is the leader of her own family group to discuss these difficult issues with her What was your situation like when you decided to come here as a family group leader? Until last year I had my own house with a but then separated from her after ten years We lived apart. And then I thought: now or never! I thought: You're taking on a family group in the children's Because I had thought about it a lot over Could she have imagined that too? We talked about it from time to time. But we have repeatedly rejected that. I still just lived in this privatized life and then thought like this: Yes, but it's still nice to just come home, nothing, i.e. to give up nothing in the sense As an employee, you leave work and go back to work the next day. Exactly, and now my life has changed so completely. Then I made up my mind: You are going to do A new start with a family group and are responsible for seven children. Have you already thought about how long you Because it is already part of this concept that you raise the children until they are Well, I still remember, in my interview for the family group leader, I said: I will pull through a generation that I am That is my wish. So that means at least 16 years if the youngest This is my dream scenario, knowing: &quot;Hey, I've pulled through a generation.&quot; And they are all simply grateful and are well And are self-employed and maybe, I don't know, good job , no , which is what you just want. Yes, whatever you want for your own children. Are you pretty much finished with that now? Is that now when you were faced with the decision because your life has changed so much. Was that either for you, right? Do you think this is over now? That my own desire to have children is over? No, not at all, so not at all. I would of course wish ... I'm 34 now. I still want to have children. And that didn't help make me choose it. So if it weren't there now, no. I would really like to bring up my own child And then, yes, when everyone is out of the I can withdraw, that would be my wish. * quiet music * excursion to the old town of Wetzlar. With so many children, it's like half a school That's why it doesn't exist every week, especially The supervisors have to have their eyes everywhere. An immense responsibility to do justice to Especially in the emotional sense: Always keep calm, convey calm, give the children closeness and security. Ui, a big trampoline! We still want to eat! And then let them go again after they have been raised for years. Celebrated birthdays and Christmas with them and conveyed his values and beliefs Do the supervisors always know what they are I think it's normal that I have to build this bond and relationship That is just normal. But in the end you have to consider that even if the children at some point ... When it comes to repatriation and the children it doesn't automatically mean that you won't meet again afterwards. That you still visit them and all that. So you still have a relationship. You can also let it stand if you want to. What would you say: Although these are children all of whom somehow already have a difficult Can there always be a happy ending? Yes. Yes! Yes, there can always be a happy ending. And a happy ending is ... For me, a happy ending looks like I know: I have accompanied a child up to the age of It is then independent, can move into its , at best has a great job. So that's a happy ending. In the end, what matters is what the child then continues to make of it. And whether it gets support from outside or whether it even needs it. But yeah, that would be such a happy ending And I believe that for the majority of our work. When they go around at 18, have got their So yes. The driver's license has to be important when At out for me what they wanted for the future. There are a lot of cars there. But also: a job, a house, becoming a superhero. Starting your own family is not included. But maybe that's not the happy ending at all. * quiet music * In the children's village, the children learn that there is another way of doing things That the saying &quot;blood is thicker than water&quot; This certainly does not apply to every child. But with those I have met here, I notice: the longer they live here, the calmer they Okay, except maybe John, but he has also found his place here. This is exactly what a help system should So that those who need help find the right It may be difficult at times, but it works. And I don't think it's fair to use the term &quot;systemsprenger&quot; to make the That's why I won't say &quot;systemsprenger&quot; anymore. COPYRIGHT SUBTITLE: hr 2020