Today we're riding first class on I know what you're thinking, America's we're riding it from Orlando to Miami to see just all starts here. The premium lounge. Look at that Got some sandwiches here. And just got spoonful of macaroni salad. I've never met a is so fancy, it's plastic but the tint makes it So we got a few more minutes. Brightline connects It's cheaper than a plane and faster than a stressful. There are two ticket classes, smart first class, and I think you'll be surprised we have access to complimentary food and Oh, I saw the chocolates. You think I I will share one with you. I gotta say, these chairs look so comfy. with a view as we're getting ready to a little bit about the check in process. simple. We scanned our tickets and Not gonna lie. We got to the train station a the Mary Mary Bar. Not knowing what all was to but solid. Super quick. Yeah. Very a train. I. We're leaving the station. Are they waving at us? Telling us All right, so I went ahead and downloaded aa so I'm excited to see what we end we're going only 30 miles an hour So we've just gotten out of the way of the airport done almost four and a half miles. We're going 67 So I'm watching this app, you know, to be able to and get work done and chill or sleep or eat or Now that we're on our way, let's talk about but these chairs are by far the most transportation. There's plenty of space at your also this nice pull down shade if you want And it's so smooth and it's quiet too. I didn't you know, like clunky train tracks, but no, and it is just smooth and quiet as can be. and connects to the East Coast Railway, So they call it the Cocoa Bend And that is, right to merge with the East Coast Railway, which was Mary Mary bar where we ate earlier? Henry both named Mary. And, of course, Henry Flagler built Florida's East Coast I'm a huge fan of Henry Flagler, simply because, living and was like our age or older, you sure. I would want to like, go work for him or brilliant in the development of the East Coast There it is. 125 will we make it over? Eight. Oh, we got a menu. We better, check the menu. please? I would like a coffee, please. Vanilla with Splenda. How long have you So you started right when the train started? So James did do an announcement earlier but the announcement was that. Guys, it's just us coming up to an intersection But if it does bother you, then they Now, we are in the very first car, I'm not going to say it's loud by any means, trying to get some shut eye or something behind us for a total of four cars. And then because the train actually just goes It doesn't have to turn around, right? There are and they can house up to 240 passengers which is actually pretty impressive when ability to add more cars on which they So right now we are going just over 60 miles an to Miami, which by the way, we are going to which we're very excited about. date nights because we've been literally So we got this time for the, we'll have got more You know what? I'm feeling thirsty. What do we options. Sparkling water for sure. Would you San Pellegrino? Only the best, huh? Yeah. anything else? Ooh, chocolate and m&amp;ms. But you have to make the duck lips. That makes me, makes me think of home. Donald. James got a good sense of humor. I'm glad we're on his car. All right. And I'll take you guys with me and show you go to the bathroom. One of the things I love how freaking cool is that. You just walk up to completely wheelchair accessible opens up for you feel like someone could easily open Oh. Toilet itself. You utilize this over here. Woah. Wow this is the craziest toilet ever, speeds in my life. All right, I got to cool. So underneath here is obviously the And the blower when. Doing right. Where's the dryer? How do we do this? Oh. Oh. I have this. Pretty cool. everyone loves Dyson. Be clean. Experience I give it a ten out of ten for a train Okay. Thank you. The great thing about being comfortable with the fact that we can this is a 3.5-hour trip. I am currently With The Crews which is our group travel interest in learning more information about Make sure to scan that and it'll take do this every day? haha, I wouldnt' are extra wide. Chains. What do you have Seriously, what are the flavors? So from lemon, raspberry, vanilla bean, and hazelnut. do vanilla bean and if Brightline would just airplane again. There's no reason to. Seriously Chef's kiss. So good. Okay you can All right, so I'm starting in the very do a full walkthrough tour. Of the train I turn the camera around this route. So this is there goes another expert on there's only one The rest of them are smart And I. So I stopped here, in the smart car to check as you can probably tell behind me, but still they have the sign rests here. So if you do people either working or sleeping or playing They're playing cards. It's just so comfortable. you can see that there is, tray, for a big want to use for maybe your cell phone or this train is comfortable, and it's where we were waiting for the restroom, multiple times now from Fort Lauderdale From Orlando to Fort Lauderdale, which is visit Disney World. And she said the it's just so easy. And I couldn't agree we have arrived to West Palm Beach as a friendly Well, James, you're back. Of course. I just got the same drinks or snacks, but salami with pepper jack or hummus and they Wow. All right. Thank you very much. Taking I truly cannot believe how much food choosing Brightline and enjoy your ride. If you haven't noticed, we've actually is the two configurations facing each other so that we can kind of help each other, on our to sit by me. Yeah. That's fine. Exactly. So I needed to be able to, you know, be this train is there's actually, I don't or 5-seat configurations. Everything from a with the table. And you can actually select So, you know, we talk about the train being a high you know, tomato, tomato, and what's really impressive is that we did but, we were going upwards of 90 But as you can see, now we're starting to. And when we have made it to Miami. Welcome to the bright line. Like so smooth. Had a couple but quite literally was this great trip. do that again. I wish I could Miami Spice is actually happening, which is we are going on a date night at Area 31. to see how all that goes, you can check description below. Hope you enjoyed this You guys know the drill! Subscribe! Leave a comment. And we'll see you