How are they? I want to show you how to achieve good reflections in a project and without having too much computer power, because sometimes to achieve good reflections you need to create a lot of surroundings, a lot of geometry and sometimes it is not necessary. Here we are doing it a lot, I show you the following: here I already have the scene ready, it is a scene with a lot of environment, first I show you more or less how we generate, the environment here, well as close as possible, almost always to reality . The closest building is modeled as real as possible and everything else is proxies for other projects, houses, etc. This gives us many shadows and also a lot of realism to the image. But for this you need a lot of computer power, sometimes the geometry is too much and the truth is, no, no... it's necessary, it's not always necessary. I'm going to take the camera out of here, here it goes, very good... here I have it ready . First I want to show you, well this is... I threw it, see what the reflections look like?? They have information, they have a ground floor, it has some reflections here... a tree, things... well, the environment itself also reflects the In case you need to see the environment in the render, there are sometimes many images from the front that you really don't need to see. the environment here, but you see how this has a lot of information. And now I want to show you what it would look like without the entire 3D environment, there I started an interactive, it has to start shortly. There it goes..... not yet.....starting Now yes. Here it is with the environment with the geometry on, what I'm going to do now I'm going to turn off the environment so you can see the difference, I have everything in a separate layer, sorry for the mess, I have 1000 layers but oh well. There, turn off the entire environment , see how the reflections change a lot, it becomes kind of unfunny, I would say. You see the Beauty either... it loses a lot of information too, I'm going to turn the environment back on in the Beauty, maybe the Beauty doesn't interest us, but I'll turn it back on to see what happens, look at the reflection in the glass a little. This is like throwing a bomb at the computer....but there it goes I hope it goes and everything doesn't close....., there it goes well, on. It has much more information. You don't really need all this...=/ there is another way to do it... I'm going to show you now, I'm going to stop the interactive and sometimes it ends up being much more real than this. Another video explains how to download a 360, right? from the street view.... and now I'm going to show you how we use it here a lot to generate reflections. I'm going to turn off the entire environment back because I no longer need it, and I'm going to bring this one back from scratch. I have it ready here but I'm going to bring it back. They make a Corona bitmap, it's going to ask you which one, I have one ready here, I just got off at the same place where that building is, which is a corner in Cordoba and something,... the ideal is that you get off in the surrounding area real, but you can put any, then I leave you below the links where the video is that I explained how to download this from Google. Then you have Corona Bitmap that is going to enter as spherical, if it does not enter as spherical it has to be as spherical here, notice... no screen, no dome, nor anything like this... and they replace this here... as an instance in the obvious reflection, and in the refraction in case it has transparencies as well. And a good thing, a good way to test, where the environment is coming out is to also put it in visibility. So now in Beauty I'm going to take out all the geometry with shift+G, that's where everything went, you see it here, I don't need Shift+L for the lights either. I turned everything off, and now I'm going to start an interactive with nothing more than the 360 background that I just put on. there it goes.... Well I already located it but you can rotate it from here... you are looking here, I am going to move this around a little to locate it more or less where you want it or where the reflection is best for you, this is not it , wait... let's see. well... this is it, here it goes Sorry , there it is spinning... The building is located. You don't need to see the background anymore, I'm going to turn it off from here, and there we have only the building and the building with the reflections of the environment. Let's see the reflection map, see... it is reflecting the environment It actually looks pretty good, it has traffic lights and if you are not convinced by this environment you can go... .... go around here, I don't know, at 200 for example. And the environment is going to change... the reflection... I meant. ......... there it goes..! now yes..! I had one on one side and another on the other, here again the reflection. until they like it, there they are too close, it is not real. but well... you can vary it and it has a lot of reality, come now I'm going to remove the reflection override and you'll see how it changes, it becomes sillier... building, nothing to see, you see it there with a reflection, the sky nothing Furthermore, it has an HDRI in place and now with the 360. Much more real and of course if they need shadow information, and they are going to need it, they can put boxes whatever and that are not visible on camera, that are not visible to the reflexes you should already know, but well I'll show you here, for example you need one... I'm going to do it quickly. They need a shadow like there is a building in front of them, they make a box here, here they have it, it is light blue, and they right click on this box, Obj properties and make it not visible for the reflections, bye and it is still visible in the environment and They achieve a shadow, of course this is very exaggerated as if it had a building in front of it. and that's how it is.... ... I hope it helps you and you use it until next time