(soft choir music) - And so, ladies and gentlemen, we move to the Leonardo Da the masterpiece by Leonardo previously in the collections (soaring instrumental music) - [Auctioneer] Who will give me 120? 130 million, 140 million is bid. At 140 million. - I always thought it would be the most expensive work of art ever sold. It's incredible and unbelievably rare. Nothing conjures with We had tens of thousands of line up for hours in some cases, and people were tremendously - I had a relationship and he had one with me. This was an incredibly powerful image, and it was like nothing and I believe like nothing I've known Robert Simon and Robert had purchased the painting. Some time, I think it he called and asked if he that he had just purchased. And I asked Bob if he wanted It had very recent kind and some sloppy retouching - It was heavily overpainted, and it was still thought to be a copy, and it was sold for a at an estate sale in Louisiana. It was found by a man named Alex Parish who then sold a share who is a very distinguished authority on Italian Renaissance paintings. Thought he must be crazy he might have found a Leonardo Da Vinci, and they started having it cleaned, and at that point the quality of it really began to come through, and they brought in Dianne Modestini, who's a very distinguished - I was not thinking, I was just concentrating to make the picture legible, not to lose any of the original. It just didn't enter my mind. It probably would have interfered with my ability and my and to develop kind of a We noticed that the panel that ran the whole length of It was a curve that went of the Salvator Mundi's head. And that was a kind of The other parts of the painting - I had already been hearing rumors from Leonardo scholars who had seen it who were sort of hinting that they'd seen this kind of amazing thing. A consensus developed over time that this was, really that had been thought to have By the time he paints it around 1500, Leonardo is almost 50. He is the most famous artist in the world. There is an assumption for a very important patron. He used very, very precious materials, and he finishes it, which He starts a lot and but he finishes this. First absolutely known history of it is about a hundred years later when it's in the collection He dies hugely in debt, to give away much of his art collection in repayment of his debts. It's given to a mason, it of an architect or a in repayment for this debt. And nine years later when and Charles II becomes king, that says basically, &quot;All &quot;from the king and got stuff And so it enters the It then descends to his younger brother and successor, James II. His mistress is a woman and they have a child together, and she inherits it from him. And then she marries the who builds Buckingham by their heirs is sold and And when the house is sold to the crown, the contents of it are sold And at that point it just We have no idea what happened. It's sold as by Leonardo of money, and so it's probable that even by that point the painting had been quite heavily overpainted. - I worked on it off The cleaning was really because the head had been There was a beard. It looks quite grotesque. Wherever there were damages they just made this kind of red beard. But all of that was done, I don't know, in the not-so-distant past, - [Auctioneer] 286 million, I thought so. (crowd gasps) 300 million. - From 1763 we have no what happens to it. Until the end of the 19th Century when it reappears and it's sold to a very eminent British But it's sold as a copy and you can see it's heavily overpainted. It was sort of just made I think it was probably by the 19th Century. And it remains in the Cook collection where nobody pays much when it's sold at Sotheby's It's bought by an American we think, and it ends up in collections in America until 2005 when it's sold for, again, a very, very small amount of money as a copy in Louisiana. - It wasn't until I was of the restoration and around the mouth which I had a book about of the Mona Lisa, detailed reproductions, and one was just of the Mona Lisa's mouth, so I actually cut the page out of the book and tacked it to my easel. That was the moment when &quot;Of course it's by Leonardo because &quot;nobody else paints this way.&quot; This picture is a paradigm of everything that he knew technically about painting and much of what he thought about time, eternity, and the cosmos. It wasn't just a portrait of Jesus Christ painted for the king. This was something that - For those of you following online, you may not have heard it. The bid was 350, was at 350 million the - [Dianne] The fact that it went for so much money will protect it. - 370 million dollars, 400 million. (crowd gasps) - I only care about it being protected and it being one of the in paint that Leonardo So the price doesn't matter. - In my dreams it's sort of almost exactly what I thought it would sell for. I always thought it would So it was a trophy of the greatest rarity. - Leonardo Salvator Mundi 400 million dollars is the (crowd cheers and applauds)