Driving through a building looks awesome. In reality, though, tankers In one word, it's basements. Greetings, all. I'm Nicholas Moran. I commissioned as an and then M3 Bradleys. These days, I work as a civilian historian for the publisher of World of Tanks. Today, we're going to be in movies and television and judging how real they are. This is absolutely correct. There's gun crews on The tank is based off of a which was a very late World War I tank built by both the UK and US. And at the time, British had what were called sponson guns, the turret that wasn't on the Mark VIII. [shouting instructions] Shouting instructions to It's too loud. Inside a World War I tank, the entire middle of that tank It was massive noise. What he's doing there, That's the only way to communicate inside a World War I tank. Firing a gun with anything You run the risk of It's called petaling, when the gun barrel just And your gun is done. Oftentimes, you'll see a tank will have a rubber muzzle cap on the end, purely to stop any dirt at And it's designed that you can actually shoot through the muzzle cap. To my knowledge, on-tank fighting has never been trained in any army. Personally, I'd have just used a pistol. But, and it would kind of suck for Indy. I would have to give this scene maybe a 3 on feasibility grounds. A Tiger has appeared on the scene. Tiger had a mythical It had the reputation because and because it had a heck of a gun. The 8.8 centimeter was lethal The problem was that it looks which was a lot more common. In actuality, historians on the Western front ever actually met a Tiger. But for the purposes of This was pretty realistic. Drivers are absolutely and they're utterly reliant on instructions from the commander. So, that's how you would Low, below the line of vision, below the level of depression that the guns can aim at you. We're going for the wheels. Because the Tiger was a breakthrough tank, it was heavily armored everywhere. And if you are infantry and you don't have high-velocity cannons, your best bet is to disable the tank and get what's called a mobility kill to immobilize the tank. Your two choices are going to be either the engine compartment And the only thing that these sticky bombs are going to have any particular effect on will be the running gear. So, the sticky bomb, it was in the manual, but it is also almost a The military is supposed to Late World War II era, you're Now, the problem is that of bazooka ammunition, and a bazooka is only so as heavily armored as a Tiger. So you're in desperation Soldier: Both sides, get aboard! Get a grenade! So, now we see one of the problems with a tank going on its own. A tank shouldn't go on its But when you have infantry, an infestation, we might crawling on your tank, there's a process that's called &quot;scratching What you do is you get on the radio, you call your buddy with a machine gun, and he will machine-gun your tank. Of course, the bullets aren't You're in a tank. But it or delouse the infantry that And that's your example of delousing. So, the 20-millimeter anti-aircraft gun, like any anti-aircraft gun you aim that thing horizontally and you will do a number on infantry. If there's any big myth about tanks, it's probably that they are In reality, they're not and they're absolutely reliant on the other parts of You have the desperation You have this back-scratching. You have the immobilization I mean, this is easily on the 9 scale. And that is absolutely accurate. The vast majority of had no idea that the enemy was there. And, again, this is why you always have to work in conjunction with infantry, because they have more eyes than you do. They have better vision than you do. But more often than not, the first indication is when you get shot at. And knocking off either in an ambush in a row What the f--- was it? That was an 88. It's a goddamn tank. With regard to the TCs in this case keeping their heads out, there are two schools of thought. But certainly in the time all the way through the it would be in a head-out position. The Western school of thought because what you don't see will kill you. The other school of thought, such as used by the Soviet was that you wanted to operate head-down. So you close the hatch, no artillery could affect you, no snipers could affect you. And the problem, of You aren't able to see So there is a balance to be struck. All right, all tanks, move forward. Wardaddy has decided for some reason that he's going to charge the enemy tank. I'm not sure I would've because that simplifies and just gives them If you can have what's and then a maneuver element, then the enemy tank has a choice. It can engage the guy pumping accurate shots at you, or the German tank can who are coming around the side. And the 76-millimeter actually would destroy a Tiger. OK, so, being obscured, the German tank has decided as opposed to just sit there and wait for whatever the The Germans were very, very The concept is called auftragstaktik. These days, we use a development of it called mission command. But the bottom line is You take the initiative. You And that is exactly what Wardaddy: Bible, put it up his I know it'll f---ing hit him! The reticle is accurate for and Shia, in this case, is So you're going to see Each graduation is for a type So if your target is, you will elevate the gun so is on the target. So, the single biggest cause was range-estimation error. If you get the range wrong, it doesn't matter if your aim is correct, you will go over or short, which is why we now have to do all that mathematics for you. Again! On the way! If you are in this sort of a knife fight, which I wouldn't recommend getting into, the first round set the engine alight, but that doesn't necessarily say that the tank crew in the turret can't still get a shot off. They say you shoot at or changes shape. So keep shooting until you This scene is an easy 9. What &quot;Fury&quot; lacks in perhaps it more than makes up for in understanding the experience of being a tank crewman. Tanks don't go from 0 They're not sports cars. But they look a lot faster By way of comparison, the M1 will do 0 to 20 miles an hour in somewhere over seven seconds. So to be launched like that, you are relying a lot on the But, hey, it's a 60-something-ton tank. It has a lot of momentum. This is obviously a derivative of some sort of futuristic tank. In reality, it's a 1960s But one of the problems is you have the big glass In reality, you don't want on a tank, because it's a weak spot. Guys, we gotta come up with another plan. They got a tank. If the opposition comes up with a tank and you don't have anything yes, you are in a serious problem. All you can do is try evade it, move to where it can't see you. If it can see you, it The tank is not going to slow down because of the massive recoil of the gun. Modern tanks have what's and what it's designed to do So, with this in mind, tanks are now very capable My initial thought is to because, yes, tanks are scary, tanks will run over anything but the general concept is just not there. So, that's Pierce sticking his head out a little bit too much. If you're trying to drive a tank, remember, you do have pedals, or usually the brake or the accelerator, and you've got to be able to So, a tank driver's seat has So head out when you are not in combat, when nobody's shooting at you. You can see a lot better. Because when you're driving through a little periscope, and you run over people that The very, very latest tanks do but oftentimes they don't. Tanks are actually very, So, inherently, a tank is designed to be as simple as possible to operate, especially for a Soviet tank. If you can drive a car, you Some pretty cool drifting there. If you are going to drift in a tank, you either want ice or So, there are two types of track you can get on a tank, generally speaking: rubber track or all-steel track. And Soviet tanks tended to Although the metal grousers are great for digging into dirt and mud and getting you some excellent on a road, there's very between the track and the tarmacadam. So what you're doing quite literally sliding around. So that drifting was kind of fortunate that they had a Soviet tank doing this. So, a tank driving through In reality, though, tankers If there's any one reason that tankers hate going through buildings, in one word, it's basements. Because if you think about it, is not designed to hold the weight of a 40-something-ton And oftentimes, there is no indication before you drive through the building whether or not there or solid ground. In this case, it would appear I would probably put it He is in a vehicle. All right, it's a black ... tank. The definition of what is The traditional definition often revolves around the It's going to have tracks, it's going to have a gun, it's going to have a turret, and it's going to have armor. But that could also be used to describe a self-propelled artillery piece. It could be used to describe And it cannot be used to which had no turret, or the which also had no turret. So, these days, you're probably better off defining a tank by its role. It's a way of getting a gun from A to B, and it's very difficult to kill. So, the Tumbler here at Oh, it does have a gun, OK. I see absolutely no practical reason why he needs to move to a in order to operate this Having the room inside this vehicle to move from one position it's bad design, because you want to have, that empty space needs That larger amount of armor weighs more. And that gives you flotation problems, emphasizing the problem you of this extra weight coming Wheeled vehicles don't have You spread the weight of a 60-odd-ton tank onto a piece of dirt or mud We do have an impression perhaps as to just how light this vehicle is, because he is now driving on a roof. Roofs are not usually designed on top of them, which also means all this vehicle will do is stop perhaps machine-gun rounds, and it's not going to stop or an antitank round. As I don't think that there in military service around the world. The closest might be for something like a So, there is a vehicle called the Fennek, and that is, in appearance, very similar. It's sort of an angled four-by-four, and it's designed to be fairly fast, fairly low-profile, to sneak around the battlefield For what it is, I'll give it a 7. The tanks that they're using a visual modification. What we have here is an earlier version of today's American tank, the M1 Abrams, and it's basically the when I was in Iraq. For a moment, I was in actual M1s, because the It has an extremely distinctive sound. [engine whirring] And in this movie, you and the sound designers and that was enough pause that So what they've done is they've they've made it into an M1. So, real tanks don't drive that close. You're going to have 100 or because if you're that a perfect target for artillery or aircraft or anything else with a blast radius. Why give the enemy an easy shot? The idea of this battle happening at night is absolutely in line with Set in the 1991 Gulf War, The US in particular owned the night. With modern night-vision gear, it cannot be understated the advantage that these pieces of equipment who could not see or fight at night. The most famous of the was called 73 Easting. A swarm of tanks coming at you, firing on the move, at night. You can't see them. All you know is that there is explosions and your own tanks are blowing up. And it was absolute textbook shock attack, and it has become one of in US Armor Branch history ever since. So, what he's holding there is, I believe it's a PVS-7. It's an earlier version that we'd use even today. On these earlier M1 tanks, the commander's handheld vision is not as good as a thermal imager. All right, baby. Hold on, son. They got no range. The commander has dropped down. He's now looking through what's called the gunner's primary sight extension, and this allows him to see exactly what the gunner is looking at. Calm down. Calm down, son. Loaded. - Identify. - Fire! So, the coordination in here The crew of the M1 is the driver, loader, gunner, and commander. The commander confirms the target. He gives the fire command. The loader loads the round, He keeps back out of the way because he doesn't want as it comes back to him. Cease fire, cease fire. It's absolutely reasonable that there would've been shooting machine guns if Now, ordinarily, you wouldn't You'd actually stop, and that you were supposed the last 100 yards, while the tanks provide Fire! You just lit up a friendly. I heard you. We -- what? Oh, my God. You just lit up Boylar, godd--- it! So, he has just fired and It's called, in army Now, friendly fire has been a problem since day one of ranged combat. The problem that you had with the M1, especially with the early thermal imagers, was that it was much, much than it was at identifying them. And at a long range or such as it is here, you didn't always know for sure what it was that you were engaging. And the other problem has become a lot more of a thing. Because recent combat that if the enemy kills one They will have to live with the effects of they have just killed their friends, which is exactly the So, I'd have to give them a 9. Overall, the tank battle scene in &quot;Courage Under Fire&quot; are excellent. Let's go. All right, move on. Every tanker I know wants and I'm guilty of that too. We tried hooking up a to play music. It didn't Oddball: Fire. OK, so Oddball has fired a paint round. Such things do not exist, What he has done, though, given the situation that that's pretty much how I'd do it. If you're going to shoot at a Tiger, the rear is the place If I was the German tanker, I probably would not in the first place. Tanks rule in open area like deserts. In urban areas and in dense and this is part of the reason why. Since you can't see the you are reliant on somebody on the outside telling you which way to go forwards, backwards, left, or right. This is a sort of situation Subject to minor details, like a tank which fires paint rounds, has a large loudspeaker on the side to play morale-boosting music, that's actually a pretty good scene. So I'd give that maybe an 8. Another mandatory movie for tankers. My favorite tank movie? Well ... very, very difficult, because Two of them we've seen here: The third one that I'd which is from the 1980s. It's about a Soviet tank Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this, why not