On January 28, 2022, about an hour before dawn, Pennsylvania, collapsed without warning. fell with the bridge, and another car not realizing the bridge was gone. several people in the vehicles were seriously in 'poor condition' for over a decade. Anyone would have had reason to question its safety, four years before the collapse. So, While some initial findings were released delivered to the public this year in February, a year after the replacement bridge was use of some really cool technology for the systemic flaws in how we inspect, analyze, the NTSB issued recommendations to basically from the bottom to the top, and they referenced a crazy case study of how common sense can and rigid oversight from federal, state, and city just relevant to people who work on bridges. individuals can collectively lead to a tragedy. The Fern Hollow Bridge was opened in 1973, beginning of the 20th century, crossing Frick a K-Frame design with continuous steel girders legs supported on concrete thrust blocks. At because it blended well into its settings. It of Prize Bridges by the American Institute it looked so harmonious with the park below The Fern Hollow bridge was fabricated from its genericized trademark, COR-TEN. And it was by US Steel in the 1930s. Unlike most types of exposing more material to corrosion, the oxide is more stable and protective, shielding the elements. In that way, weathering steel acts corrosion in a similar way. And, architecturally, that can give structures a more comfortable and has a limitation: For a stable patina to form, the the steel is kept damp for extended periods, the underlying steel, and it will continue is called section loss by engineers, and it's What's more alarming than what's in those photos It's not that this deterioration somehow visible from a popular walking trail. Between of 14 times! In those reports, you get a clear drainage problems. You can see in these images were drainage grates on the roadway that were salty meltwater from the frequent snow that the prescribed drainage paths off the deck and leak through the bridge deck, dribbling over of the legs where webbing and tie-plates could The City was aware of the section loss years before the collapse. Nearly every drains and the accelerating corrosion that was connecting each pair of legs were found to be temporary retrofit until the framing could be to add structural integrity to the bridge but You can see the ends of two of these cables in the more notable feature of this image is the was taken about nine years after the temporary place for the rest of the bridge's life, which cross-bracing between the legs wasn't the only themselves were also fabricated from weathering 2005, inspection reports marked them in the steel had completely rusted through. assessment possible for an individual that should trigger a structural review to the poor condition of a structural element, An important part of inspecting steel bridges is That's engineering jargon, but the idea is of steel under tension that lacks redundancy. If of members get special attention because of their ahead of time to make sure they get a proper look. bridge were considered to be fracture-critical. are identified, the legs are not. And, at first piers, columns, and vertical supports usually in compression. So if there's a crack or generally not that big a deal. But K-frame bridges are loading conditions that can apply bending this particular bridge had another feature that Each leg of the bridge was essentially an I-beam: simplify the foundation design, each leg had to the concrete block. It's clear that the so larger stiffeners were added to each shoe are just steel plates welded to the web and built a little cardboard model to clarify called the transverse tie plate, bridges the two apply a compressive force on the leg, it's easy to as a result. It's tension. These tie plates but never identified as such, and so, even quickly over time, the inspectors never elevated spurred a more immediate response. But there In 2013, an inspector was concerned enough be reviewed for a load rating. Most bridges are but sometimes, either because of an old it's necessary to limit the weight of vehicles and decided it could only handle 26 tons rating. When NTSB reviewed that decision in For one, the load rating for the bridge was paving on top of the concrete road deck. In amount. The City's records of the removal so the engineering firm doing the load rating had the engineers didn't fully account for all because inspectors hadn't cleaned off the rust the remaining steel. Even so, the engineers loss from corrosion evenly along the entire leg, at the shoes and tie plates. That's a pretty generates conservative results (since the most critical part of a structure), but Hollow Bridge, and no one had recognized And for three, those engineers made bridge's legs would buckle. A structural member depending on how much restraint it has at year one of engineering. If you keep a column increase the amount of force it can withstand, and that would have been the case. But I'm sure I provide the same support as rigid members. Again, The cables provided some restraint, but not in so the load rating applied to the bridge ended up In fact, when NTSB updated the load rating bridge should have been limited to 3 tons, this load rating exercise should have closed issues were exactly what the process was meant to everyone except the largest of trucks,and here's The transverse tie plate on the southwest leg, separating the flanges on the leg, and ultimately supports, the loads had nowhere to go, the valley below. The articulated bus had both which captured some truly harrowing footage of you can see the western portion of the bridge and you can see the exact moment there was no stopping it. Within two seconds, had propagated all the way to the eastern Thankfully, the collapse happened during generally poor conditions meant that traffic was kept folks away from the trail underneath. it wouldn't be uncommon for the eastbound lanes of and the trail underneath to be populated with dog from nearby schools. The bridge also carried the collapse, leading to a major leak and some It really is remarkable that nobody was killed in multiple victims needlessly affected for the rest overall erosion of trust in the organizations and By pure happenstance, President Biden was day of the collapse to speak in support of so he rearranged his trip to make some remarks at is the National Highway Performance Program, which bridge. But at that time, no one understood that led to the gradual, and then sudden, demise Hollow Bridge fell, the NTSB conducted from the paving contractors to the inspectors to laser scanning of the bridge components to compare of steel for strength and durability. They construction, and repairs. And they of the bridge to confirm that the gradual the transverse tie plate on the southwest documented why it got to that point: the This figure in the NTSB report tells the story as recommendations from inspection reports to repair just kept being repeated by each new inspection, inspection report that included recommendations that were heavily corroded. These were Priority complete them is before the next inspection. But problems that were accelerating the corrosion, that might have slowed it down, and they never rated the worst possible condition a structural mechanism to follow up on those recommendations inspection program. When there was finally a really was through a new load rating, missed it by a mile, and left the bridge open, a in which the City still didn't address the Due to the nature of the emergency, the site brought in to remove the bus, and building of schedule. The new bridge uses a more conventional pre-stressed concrete girders on vertical piers. The formed stone texture on the columns as the graceful and patinaed K-frame once did, stomach another structure built from weathering might not win any awards for beauty, but it effort from the design and construction teams, after the collapse in December of 2022, and by would be almost a year later before the NTSB not for the purpose of blame, but to issue this from recurring in the future. And unlike the many of the NTSB recommendations They published a special report on weathering of keeping them in good condition, and they a closer look. The City of Pittsburgh maintenance, and repairs. And they redid the resulting in one bridge being closed until it restrictions imposed. PennDOT released bridge inspection program. And even the federal prioritize, and follow up on recommendations But as I read through those recommendations add up to more paperwork. And this is just my own work for nearly a decade (not on bridges, We have these national inspection standards spend an entire career understanding. We have the program, state DOTs charged with carrying it responsible for inspecting their own bridges, the actual work. We have this huge machine and local involvement, and millions of safe. And what did it do for us would take any reasonable person to This big machine, in a lot of cases, has all the bridge up close, but they have no autonomy to do It's not their bridge. But the owners who are see a piece of paper. Each recommendation is just action items, to sort and prioritize and NTSB recommendations feel a little bit like was that no one person in this whole machine condition and the authority to do something sure any of those recommendations really fixes and I'm still wrestling with trying to understand cracks of the enormous system we've built If you take a walk on the Tranquil Trail through carefully, you can still see remnants of the because they're a good reminder that design system for keeping people safe. Maintaining me wrong, it can be a really rewarding career. field seeing cool structures up close. And repair contractors. But they're not rewarding in the can be. No one holds a press conference and cuts structural retrofit. Building a new structure is commitment to take good care of it for its entire or even close it when it's no longer safe for study to show that there's more we could do to Maintenance is a big part of budgeting for large lifecycle of a project. You see construction million-dollar job), but you rarely see what repairs, and upkeep for the decades that follow. pick up a cheap razor from the store and cost over its lifetime for blades. Today's bite the bullet at first for a nice handle, and take long for the decision to pay itself off. weeks now, but I usually stay pretty clean-shaven. know how I'll get rid of it when I do. Henson ago. I said send me a razor, I'll try it out, and went and counted, and, in that year and a half, unless you use my discount code that A new razor's probably not going to change your and using a precision tool makes it feel my day that I actually enjoy. I had never old technology. Totally not true - these are figured there would be a learning curve, but that I don't think I could ever go back to a cartridge rinsing out. If you've ever been on the market this is that, except, it's not really a splurge. could probably put a new one on for every shave code PRACTICALENGINEERING at checkout, you can both the razor and the blades are in your cart, right away. There's no subscription service or really like and I think you will too. Thank you