It's in a special box! Are you mad!? Hi, I'm Josh. I'm Ollie. And today we're taking jolly British tea time Guys we've done simple tea and biscuits, B ut today we're gonna do the essential English tea and cakes. What I want to do is ask the question what This looks great. It looks good. What do you want Jenny? Maybe the carrot cake. Yes, I'm so glad you said that. Oh my gosh! Big one Jenny. Alright let's go for it. Jenny, we might have peaked. How's it go with the tea? It's a blessing. It works very well. Very well with the tea. I'm ready for round 2. I was enjoying myself so much... Milk me! I'd rather not. If that's okay... We're moving on to banana bread loaf. I think there's some kinds of banana bread loaf That actually you want to take a bread knife slice, I know that's mad. That's crazy, you literally eat it like bread. Well, I can tell you're not as excited about this. Not excited is a very polite word for what I'm feeling about this now. What are you talking about? Firstly, This is a cake party. This, it doesn't even qualify for the word cake! That's good though! Isn't it nice? And it's quite cakey. It's great. Yeah, no that's pretty good. Shut up! Honestly, I hate banana bread with a passion, Another controversial offering. Coffee cake. This cake has stolen Donald trump's toupee. Oh, no! We need some googly eyes. I'm going to take a little slither of this. How is it, Jenny? It is a bit strong for me. Because I don't like coffee. You don't like coffee? At all? Does the icing make this coffee cake great again... I'm not sure it does. Honestly, I think the icing is the only thing The cake itself was quite nice but I don't I think it did! I think it was quite strong. Feel like this cake it's not my favourite. I can imagine there being people who are like, I love this cake, Because it's quite a strong quite a bitter, like... Very very strong. It says all of the things that some people are thinking, Can we stop? Should we try cutting the jolly cake? Okay! Are you mad?! Firstly cut it so the camera can see. Well, that's not good. Oh, you're left-handed aren't you, I forgot about that. Are you?! Well, I'm kind of ambidextrous. I'm not great with either hand if I'm honest. More carefully! Relax Ollie! Oh, gosh! So while Ollie is taking forever. Tea, I feel like it's something that you offer me pretty much It's kind of an essential part of British culture. When do the cakes come out? I feel like there's a historical thing. Wait wait, Ollie don't use the knife for that! We've got serving things! Sorry, continue. I have no idea! It's the best slice I've ever done, it's incredible! Give him a plate! Let's all just share this how about that? No, let's all just applaud my efforts. Look at this! That too yea! Thank you thank you. How'd you guys feel about red velvet? As someone who loves bland food, sometimes it's too rich is what I'm saying. Okay. Well, you've gone for it. Okay! Wow, that's a good cake. The icing is very cream cheesy. You know? You could put that icing in a bagel with some I mean you would notice I wouldn't. This is the best bagel I've ever had! You do you, Ollie, you do you. You don't cheers a tea! Oh, don't you? Sorry! No that's fine I love it, I live on the wild side. I've got an almost unstoppable urge to just I kind of want to see you do that, Okay, shall I do it? I haven't even bitten but I feel like I've These look nice but I feel like this is the cake I genuinely have bitten off more than I can chew. I've never seen anyone eat a cupcake Is that how you eat a meatball? Because that's pretty weird. That's what I'm telling you man. You guys ready for the next cake? I don't know. Rainbow cake, let's do it. Rainbow cake! This is the staple of kids parties, pride parades. But you've got to buy special food colouring if you want to make it. Really? I know this because... I have made some good cakes This looks really good... I'm nervous about this one. Are you thinking what I'm thinking? After our experience with rainbow cheese in Melbourne... It was amazing, and we ate all of it, tasted great, And then we honestly, were 5 blocks from our hotel. 5 blocks. Not far. And we get 2 blocks home, And Josh is like... I was like this is not good guys... He's like I don't think I can make it. Literally this is like maybe 10 minutes later. My body works fast. Even though the food was right at the top end, And everything in its system was like... We need to make some space! Get this stuff out! Out! We need to flush! We get it! Flipping heck... The thing is normally I vomit, Josh poops, right? And that's just the way we are! It's just the way we are. But this was the case, I can't even vomit! I didn't even vomit. We're both... sharing a hotel room, just on like relays to the toilet. I'll be honest, I didn't even make it back to the hotel. I had to stop at a random hotel I spied on the way to home! And I was like, it's either on the street or in this hotel, I remember just Josh just going in... Josh going in, and we're like, Well, cheers, guys! Rainbow cake! Let's hope we don't get diarrhea! Interesting. This tastes like birthday cake to me. I like it! I was about to say it's much less like nice texture. It feels like they're making up for how dry Yeah to me it's style over substance, isn't it? I think that's the worst we've tried so far. Really? Yeah, it is. The coffee cake was my least favourite I think. Okay. Oh, yeah... Cos this has nostalgia. All right chocolate beetroot cake. Should we do it? Look how thick and gooey that is! I guess that's the beetroot. You could not accuse this one of being dry, very gooey feeling. Yeah, it does! I'm not sure about this one actually. But I do think beetroot tastes like mud. Yeah, I don't really like it. I want some tea to wash that down. I'm not an enormous fan. Put it this way, I preferred the banana bread. Lemon drizzle cake. Lemon drizzle cake is a favourite in my family. So that's why you guys make such good lemon drizzle cake. Just the thought of eating any more cake is making me... That is literally the smallest slice of cake I've ever seen in my life. Ollie! Which one did you overdo it on? Have some more tea. Yeah, that ones destroyed you. You never feel well after eating one of them. Lemon cake is just nice, isn't it? It's very good, it's just nowhere as good as Lizzie's. Mine is better. But it is good. For the final cake guys. Oh, it's in the special box! I went to this bakery recently, I don't know if you guys are going to know this or not, Don't want to get your hopes up too much, it's a bit of a curveball. It's Michelin star cake, the greatest... Eccle cakes! I think it's Eccles cakes actually. They remind me of my grandparents. Why? Because my grandparents are northern. And I think it's a northern thing. Right? Sorry, I'm so disappointed. You're not gonna like these cos they are mainly raisins. Oh, it's right up Ollie's alley! There you go! Have one, just have it. Josh, you could have got anything from the Michelin star... It's the only cake that they had! Where did you go? And you've never tried Eccles cakes? No! Now does this actually classify as a cake, cos... I don't want to call it a cake but it is a cake. That's the question, does having cake in the Urinal cakes are not cakes. Their packaging would disagree with you. I think there is actually an answer to this, right? Oh, what's the answer? I think cakes go stale like dry, and biscuits go soft. I'm just gonna say this looks more like a pie than a cake. Looks like a kidney stone. Yeah, it's like pastry... Don't take a huge bite because they're quite strong in flavour. It's really hard! Guys, this is a raisinpocalypse. I think there's like an entire farm of raisins. A farm of raisins Ollie, do you know where raisins come from? You don't dig them up like potatoes. No, they live in little huts... Oh my gosh, it's like so solid! What on earth have I done to that? It doesn't look super good, now you look at it. So is this like some kind of summertime mince pie? I don't know that it's seasonal Let's go for this. Oh, it's very heavy but I like that. Yeah, that's Eccles. That's nice. Tastes very British, kind of fruit cakey. It's definitely stronger than a mince pie. That's strong. I don't think there's anything less strong Tell you what, Quite like it. It's good. I think that's quite British as well. This is like my grandparents. That has been a little journey through British tea and cakes. Quite an institution. Thank you very much for being our resident cake expert and walking us through that Jenny. You're very welcome, this is a nice pleasant episode! It wasn't like come and drink some onion water. Last up we have pig brain cake. Maybe next time we should do best ice creams. We'll work our way through British sweet things All right well guys. We'll see you jolly soon. See you later. Bye! Hi guys, Ollie here. I've got a reason to be jolly today! And it is Jenny's Instagram, @parentsdictionary. It's incredible. Jenny, I set up a plug at the end of the episode! Got it in there! Here's your plug, go follow @parentsdictionary on Instagram! See you jolly soon! Said it twice in an episode! I'm killing it!