&quot;Coral is an organic substance capable of self is determined by the density of the colony. As to maximize Coral density. However, one must Coral brought about by this density effect. It is collapse that humanity has no hope of controlling. research has utterly consumed him. Granted, there on human subjects, but no ethical scholar would is driven mad by possibilities. What does Coral that assistant number one's son is to remain Beyond his years. And now our research has robbed has every right to hate me. Perhaps assistant have a knack for assembling toys. I hope that at No. The Coral tide is rising at an abnormal rate. the calculations. How much time do we have? have time. Deploy Ibis. There is no averting the itself. I must now concern myself with what Observation must continue. Assistant number two I have no choice but to pass the legacy of remain. I have done all that I must. I alone Ibis burn. Whatever future awaits the boy, I hope have friends in the Jupiter colonies. Surely they the leftover voice logs of Professor Nagai, who which brought about the fires of Ibis. So much in this video, we'll go over every data log, time dedicated to showcasing the most cinematic we'll start going over every mission in the game takes place on the planet ISB-2262 Rubicon-3 a And this planet is special because it's here Coral is many things. It's an infinite energy It's food. It's a lethal contaminant. It's it's also extremely flammable. But I think what's early stage in the timeline, is that Coral is only a stable substance contained on a peaceful planet it probably would have remained that way. Alas, began to research the Coral, building cities and things that slowly set the events of Armored Core were the Rubicon Research Institute, which quickly what they built had military applications, though Coral, the discoveries were poised to transform began to introduce the Coral to human subjects, brain and enhance the senses. These were the first very few survived that process. But those that C1 to C4, followed by an ID number. And after storage for who knows how long. But then, half a the Coral was ignited. A storm of flame, dubbed but the surrounding star systems and Coral, The and forever lost. When the ashes had cooled. An Planetary Closure Administration, sent personnel travel. It seems to be this slow and or expensive everything they needed to Rubicon bases was set up began the construction of an array of AI powered contaminated planet to ensure humanity would never on. We know very little of interstellar events in wars across Earth's solar system, and we know piloted by independent mercenaries and pilots who like Balam, ARQUEBUS and many other corporations. these corporations hadn't yet infiltrated Rubicon the Rubicon Research Institute were making their was too far away for the corporations, or perhaps Maybe word of the Coral's benefits hadn't reached put plans in place. We just don't know. These are own character and goals, and I'll detail them the PCA, well, they discovered something while the Coral hadn't been entirely wiped out. Not had survived the fires as well. These humans were of native Rubiconians who had been rebuilding with though they had this closure system built or it was leaked that the Coral was still on the in orbit, a way onto the planet had suddenly been By this point, all knew of Coral's potential, and outweighed by the sheer benefits that such a would eventually return to stoke the fire. But an organization called Overseer and Association Corals growth, Ready to burn it all again when the a man named Handler Walter. Which brings us to the go through things mission by mission, and in this pretty much every single thing that you might have Walter verified.&quot; &quot;We're close to Rubicon, wake Rubicon Research Institute, Walter was just though he was noted to be reticent beyond his of the fires of Ibis. And he survived, becoming his to monitor the Corals growth and burn it all Coral control device. Augmented human C4 621 has name reveals quite a bit. C4 is a designation that one of the last generations, to experience Coral and the number 621 means where 621st within that we were shown a story trailer showing 621 being serve as a hound. The doctor asks Walter what him last time, and he's met by silence. They're at least you're helping me clear my inventory, augmented humans just sitting around in cold to be awakened. Indeed, Coral pulse augmentation six and these augmented humans are clearly past lives are a mystery, but at some points in and now they're here. We get precious little to guess, I'd say this doctor practiced human before the fires of Ibis, and might have fled off humans in tow. After all, fourth gens are the and this doctor is familiar with handler Walter, before it burned. The doctor also tells Walter which could suggest that he's in hiding, but states that you should assume everything besides he considers 621 to be combat capable, but that Indeed, the Coral generations of augmentation are part of the reason it's a type of augmentation with 621 being briefly booted up into the torso the first words they've heard and who knows how Anyway, back to illegal entry. &quot;We're close to point out this cutscene where Walter calls you is fitting because Walter treats you as if you two have been operating together for a activates here is called the watchman according to been built atop a giant asteroid, which would have This cannon is a part of the PCA's closure system to shoot us down, it might actually represent according to an arena bio, the closure system attack station 31, and station 31 is actually here, where not too far away you can see the to say that the watchmen's capability might have especially since many other corporations this region as well. However, that's not to say of unsuccessful landfalls as well. All throughout smoldering fuselage of enormous craft, which I'm I think these could represent the casualties when crash landing, well, you actually managed to crash 135 and a few missions later, it's revealed that and soon the Arquebus Corporation hires you to at grid 135. &quot;Grid 135 is a key foothold survey in the contaminated city.&quot; Arquebus and the corporate powerhouses on Rubicon, alongside explosive, Arquebus are cold and cunning. But companies? Well, it's because this catapult makes attack on the contaminated city below. And the because then they'll be able to conduct their about the Coral and where it gathers. &quot;See the landing. Time to fly, 621. If we get our hands on a merc like you with a fried brain like you to buy generation of augmented humans, and side effects despite this, Walter's dialog here reveals that he's not lying about that, he kind of is outright making a killing of sorts, but he doesn't intend work. Scavenge the AC wrecks ahead, find a valid need I.D. to operate.&quot; All the wrecks in the city already. The defenders of the city are the Rubicon who have the strength to oppose the corporations them, since it's their territory that stands in The corporations have clearly taken a pass at the to suppress the situation. As Walter mentions, standing army guarding the subject which I assume planetside suggests that they have another, likely that the closest thing Armored Core six has to wield incredible power off planet if they're in the call of the Coral was so great that all of PCA to attempt to suppress things here with their in a part of AC6's universe that we don't get the license we eventually claim belongs to Raven, here you might recognize their AC named nightfall where they're locked in battle against a rival to show a bunch more that we now recognize in the SG helicopter, Gatling guns and MTs at the here. This trailer does a good job of showcasing its the fallen Raven and their cohorts that are in this corporate playground. So who is Raven? Well, a hacktivist collective of four mercenaries Coral response was rediscovered. So not only did extremely confidential information about the the corporations. And not only did they leak that on station 31, the station we mentioned earlier, the closure system, creating the very gap that we here. We'll come into a bit more detail on branch to know that Raven was high on the PCAs list for Raven to be dead, so the PCA either found them combat here, which I think that's more likely. of the corporations, and then wound up getting but of course, that's just speculation. Whatever their legacy. &quot;ALLMIND provides a combat training was in a suspended state. Perhaps you may need a really makes it legal for you to operate on legal in the PCAs eyes at least. Rather, having centralized system of active mercenaries so that ALLMIND to assist. ALLMIND is an AI support system handle licensing on Rubicon, as well as access to arena mode. And she also does many other things second mission is grid 135 cleanup. It's the sort back of the battlefield, there's a corridor, and that you crash landed into at the start of the agent of ALLMIND that is clearly investigating the 621.&quot; As for why ALLMIND is here, it's hard to say crash lands on Rubicon, but maybe, just maybe, machine down. Get back to work, 621.&quot; At this company, Balam Industries, are really leading the calls to attack the city come from them. And started to commit members of their own in-house a fairly high ranking member of the Redguns, gun city from the very start of the game. Subsequent installations and then later destroy the transport eventually Balam Throw so many resources at taking and the city does eventually fall under their to the contaminated city later in a new game plus not the Alef or octopus. But this raises the to Balam? Well, in the grid 135 clean up briefing be ahead in the Coral survey race. So maybe more so than ARQUEBUS desperate for some clue as one thing that you notice in a lot of missions is there's Coral, and considering the contaminated underground vein and the city might be a valuable the contaminated city? Well, according to lethal contamination in its wake, which reveals live Coral is also lethal. later on, There are absolutely wrecks your AC. It even has a damage no defenses for. So I think the word contaminated brings me to the grids. The structures that tower just speculation, but I think they might have been It wouldn't be the first time that humanity has contamination, In the Armored Core series. and they actually predate the fires of Ibis. You can cutscene, so they can't have been built to avoid have been built to avoid Coral contamination in I think it has to have been the first settlers on maybe some population of settlers that split now that the corporations have landed an grids won't be safe, which sort of implies that At any rate, our first sign that Balam has when you realize that they've just had a new the city. This AC uses a Dafeng heavy weight tree slender branches Philosophy. It also has the but this tester AC also allegedly features 12345 booster from RAD, which actually does well with this heavy build. But the tester and they rarely ever dodge at all. As per the come from an external architect. As for who this because this exact AC design eventually shows up description, it's stated that ALLMIND strives to near symbiotic relationship with their ACs. This its very being. And while ALLMIND eventually here ALLMIND is simply providing a new, easy have just lost one of their own G7 hakra in their opening for a new pilot. &quot;We're under attack. I'll deal with the merc. I've been training for mission.&quot; He fails the mission... &quot;I just - I job was a very calculated move by Walter. Without jobs to independent mercenaries. Pilots like dam complex with a briefing delivered by Gun one Did you? Good. Sit your ass down and listen.&quot; So at his arena bio. Commander of the Redguns, leadership after a career as the commander of the as a merciless, heavy handed ogre of a man who who knew him as hell on four legs. Apparently, bounty board, with the stipulation that half of former comrades at furlong. His AC Liger Tail Nickname. Furthermore, a liger is a real animal. female tiger, often believed to be the largest reasons. Unsurprisingly, Michigan is an easy a series of sketches that feature the human side we think he's almost certainly this man, given his of the man beside him, which we'll get into later. actually doesn't come from his arena bio. Instead, a member of the Redguns tasked with managing Rubicon. He's the one who has been delivering all want to introduce myself. Gun six Red. But you can boy, Red's life was forever changed when he saw triumphs in the Jupiter War. Red trained through idol, supporting his impoverished siblings All the he won his place in the Redguns at the very Of course, what's most interesting to learn from commander Michigan, leader of Balam's Redguns information about interstellar events, so learning a stretch to say that Balam is in control of the but I think it's fair to say that Balam probably this fact is made even more fascinating when you which muses on Walters future as he was it reads whatever future awaits the boy, I hope have friends in the Jupiter colonies. Surely they I think it's fair to speculate that Commander Walters safekeeping, especially since Michigan numerous points in the game. &quot;Well, well, well, my business, I'm surprised you'd even dare Walter proposes a job with the Redguns as a shot gen augmented humans, tends to be emotionally is to convince Balam that you're worth the extra you successfully destroy the dam or whether you &quot;Balam's moving in on the Gallia Dam complex, one to destroy their lifeline and make those sacks mission. Gun Four, Volta and Gun Five Iguazu. And receiving the callsign Gun 13 &quot;a lucky little this is said suggests that its previous owner has AC pilot you downed in the previous mission. Or it meet, like the one who pilots the Melander AC, promotional material, this AC pilot had the gun 13 you did. 13 is an unlucky number to the Redguns. for it might actually be quite logical because rank is the newest to the Redguns and thus the that whichever pilot receives this number is more after all. &quot;Balam group AC squad Redguns reporting you maggots.&quot; &quot;Great. An independent Merc. Who's taken care of Some freelancer&quot; &quot;Who gives a shit? destroyed&quot; &quot;Hey freelancer, betno one even are going to go climb the wall. It's just target is next.&quot; &quot;Gun five can't tear yourself away from sewing club together and stitch that damn mouth it's your inexperience, your lack of loyalty to hoping that they'll be able to sway you even in Why be a mere pawn? What honor is there in Serving Do you hear me you corporate vulturea? The home in armored coffins. forged in ash, we stand piece of junk. It's barely different from an MT. You want to be next on the scrap heap?&quot; This arena bio reads a blue collar worker who was is now dedicated to establishing symbiosis with free from planetary closure. Inspired by Father he is zealously dedicated to the cause, but than the cockpit. It's this description of Index him. In this STV sketch. I think he's pointing another man. It's from Dunham's Arena bio that we members, were indeed involved in the construction about the original grid, then I guess this would of Ibis, though they could also be talking about is a cinder, it suits his flaming pickax emblem, warfare. As the pickax is a tool that was used it historically doubled as a weapon whenever war can be applied to index Dunham's AC as well, which and the Joso generator parts with performance MT models, which reflects this hasty conversion to repel the corporate incursion, where these labor models originally. Unfortunately, stop Balam overpowering the RLF here &quot;Damn you &quot;Confirmed all targets destroyed.&quot; &quot;Looks Freelancer.&quot; Index Dunham is so dismayed by the First, what we're tasked with destroying here are power and likely what keeps them warm. Michigan grim reminder of the war crimes we're committing you from. But crimes that occur nonetheless. And power, well first, it might not always be frozen but the true source of the dam's energy is later combat log titled The Well Dries reads sooner than later. We just can't harvest as much the corps squeeze out of us. They know we need it we watch starve? So this reveals that there are tap into for energy, and they use this harvested these mealworms later creatures that digesting it before themselves, becoming a safe incredibly hostile planet. A later combat log a tiny shot of Coral when consumed, meaning that in some form or another. So your destruction of unless you betray them and side with the I'm receiving a coded transmission.&quot; &quot;Raven request is simple. We want you to take out the two offer. awaiting your response.&quot; &quot;Interesting. Raven.&quot; &quot;621. We've received a friendly I.D. tag firepower.&quot; &quot;You meant that, did you?&quot; This is like gun five Iguazu, seems to have been brought bio reads. After beating the rebellious Volta it his personal crusade to make something of past seven years, neither Volta nor Iguazu have out of Michigan, then get the hell out of the admitted defeat and is now learning about business who we'll talk about later. &quot;That's a low blow, It looks like gun 13's playing dirty Now. this this freak?&quot; &quot;Now you've done it, Freelancer. losing control of my machine. No choice but can see Wu Huahai here in the STV sketch. Given descent. The AC that they're all sitting upon is are almost certainly a Iguazu and Volta with gun sure Who is a Iguazu and who is Volta. This could and he was said to be learning about business from a Iguazu was a known gambler. The Iguazu's bio and he was forced to undergo experimental fourth debtors. In his new life, he quickly began to crime. Iguazu's recalcitrant nature was such that Jupiter, who retaliated with such fury that Iguazu the hero of Jupiter who punched the Iguazu's face blurred out, leaving the damage quite to your shit. I already get enough from Michigan every nature, that's even represented by his a species known for clashing violently with its attitude, especially towards authority or Iguazu has this attitude thrust as he was into the I'm not going down like Volta. I'm gonna punch one's stopping me.&quot; Iguazu's Whose gambling debts system from previous Armored Core games, where you body was offered to an experimental augmentation you received enhanced abilities. The fact that in AC6 with a Iguazu's here, getting a new life our past as 621 might have been like. Of course, like us, is also a fourth generation augmented and paid for after his surgery by Michigan in previously established that Walter and Michigan Institute, and maybe they share a source of fourth the fact that Walter has the word handler as a of augmented humans out there, and that buying established thing in this universe. &quot;Damn it, I've four and gun five eliminated. You can bill me for little field trip, Walter. I'll be filling in for early is that despite their ACs being destroyed Instead, they've withdrawn from their AC6, which whenever it needs you to defeat ACs But keep Armored Core five, the pilots have ejected to be &quot;Your cooperation is appreciated, Raven&quot; though a man named Middle Flatwell, he's the de facto and he's the one who's offering you the job to this man in the STV sketch. Engaged in an argument is more loyal to Father Dolmayan. So it kind of of Middle Flatwell's Bio reads. His authority is standing within the organization has earned him uncle of the Liberation Front to Dolmayans of uncle and father, five members of the RLF titles. These are little, ring, middle, index, Middle Flatwell, Index Dunham and Thumb Dolmayan. united against the extra planetary corporations. comes from Schneider, an ARQUEBUS subsidiary. The western Belius. Our Coral investigation there Liberation Front mining ship. You are to destroy the Coral was called melange, the same name which Armored Core six seems somewhat inspired by. would be the Fremen, a people that are hardened their planet's most valuable resource. There's be one of the corporation's dogs. Activate the with Rubicon.&quot; &quot;Abide with Rubicon.&quot; Even the Dune, and we first see this logo here on the side arms fort that was once merely a ship used to mine though, it's infused with some serious symbolism. Hold the line. Defend the ship with your lives&quot; hardships that made us, remember that one Rubicon the Strider will be crucial to the RLF as it's Coral and distributing it elsewhere and, you know, lose the Strider.&quot; &quot;sir, No response from the RLF and help them keep this ship around, but alas, Game plus plus by a foreign force if you attempt Plus Plus mission, the RLF paid another Rubicon combat. This included attaching all of the weapons laser, the eye, to the front of the ship. It looks which makes me wonder if there's a story there the RLF need these weapons attached because Coral survey in their territory. This time in the surface. So assumedly there is Coral beneath these this location. But the most curious part of this of it, where you're given the option to escort before you can arrive. &quot;Enemies on the radar. Defend yourself, 621 they're not going to listen Rubicon Research Institute. Relics that survived because despite Walter later telling you he'll these machines attacked here, forcing us to drone weapons left over from the Rubicon Research after the sunflower that they really do look are MT like drones that you eventually find in a is an underground city on an entirely different They're autonomous deterrents created by the RRI it's logical to think that these weapons might RLF who might have been mining it, and maybe they in wait beneath the ground. However, it's kind Institute would have planted C-weapons here on a City. And it's also kind of strange to think that they're mining here, uncovering relics that they that thing? &quot;Alternatively, you could theorize the RLF, the PCA to commandeer other institute ALLMIND is behind this attack, since she has a this mission. In the end, though, I don't think here. &quot;Looks like the last of the thing on the the Strider, but you had a hell of an excuse. I'll 621.&quot; Regardless, this mission gets you a foot ARQUEBUS. &quot;I understand you want to join Operation some old institute relics hardly qualifies you.&quot; ARQUEBUS. Take out the Gatling cannons protecting &quot;You'll never climb the wall, Corporation under attack. They're in the city.&quot; &quot;It's just one we stand as one. Die mercenary.&quot; &quot;Corporate other missions up until this point, the wall isn't It's important because it's a key trading outpost, Coral surveys can be launched. And naturally, who use it to supply their own forces Balam, as is sending Iguazu and Volta on what Volta Iguazu chooses this moment to go a while, leaving and it's a task he can't complete. In front of message sent from Volta to Iguazu, apparently just man, you got to give Michigan another chance. I know he's an asshole, but he's looking out for man. If there's anyone who deserves punching mission. You picked a good day to go AWOL. You'll First, that it was the suits at HQ that demanded reminder that even though people like Michigan and Rubicon, they're actually not the highest ranking calling the shots, presumably somewhere safe off that's curious is why it Iguazu went AWOL here in being the first over the wall. So what changed? somewhat. This record reads as if something with Volta pleading with Iguazu to give Michigan a chewed out by Michigan during or after the dam here out of bitterness. The sad thing is that this desertion might have directly led to Volta's look out for Iguazu, and in a later mission, when here, Michigan defends him &quot;Iguazu? oh yeah, the I forgot we still kept you around Iguazu's worth is worth 20AM. Your doing nothing productive. is 2000 Albany, Sir. But enough about balance. vesper means evening as reflected on the emblem. briefing in this mission, each Vesper leads their really get to see the forces they lead. Each play on the augmented human body, except for Rusty of many things that set Rusty apart, since he's with the RLF. and is only playing along with This is V4 Rusty . You're fast. guess you're are game. A numbered Vesper is elite. But remember, on it too much.&quot; &quot;You must be RAVEN. Fond of the You ready to climb the wall?&quot; Interesting that you wonder what his other hounds jobs have been reputation. &quot;That's the juggernaut heavy mobile That's the stuff. Walter knows how to pick em. up with Steel Haze. I'll distract it while you hit juggernaut destroyed. Operation Wass Climber is a care of mopping up the remaining hostiles. With now. I think I should tell you something. During sacrifice you. The plan was to use independent could step in and take over. But instead, you took you now, that's for sure. As will I.&quot; As a double things, especially in the lead up to this is instructed to clear a path through RLF forces, for and afterwards in retrieve dcombat logs, We reveals a wealth of information &quot;search the nearby with V4 Rusty . That's what we're looking for, of the RLF have craft that have been destroyed eject levers as soon as they engage Rusty , quick. But not all of them would have known what tragic logs comes in the form of a video record of doesn't understand why they've turned on the RLF referring to the files of Uncle Flatwell, who of Flatwell bio reads for a time Flatwell worked and has sway over a rather significant like Rusty , flatwell was also able to infiltrate infiltrated the vespers who are part of ARQUEBUS as their parent company, and the fact that corporation makes me wonder, because does that fires of Ibis and then infiltrated? Or does it any rate, he's not a spy for ARQUEBUS anymore, but Schneider and continues to hold sway with them. I wonder, did Rusty manage to infiltrate ARQUEBUS all, his Arena bio reveals that he was discovered Schneider and ARQUEBUS affiliates, and goes on that he was selected to join the upper echelons of augmentation surgery prior to joining the Vespers, he has declared himself to be of the eighth himself to be of the eighth generation makes generation augmentation. If I had to guess, Rusty this is one of the most advanced generations this would help ingratiate himself with his fellow augmentation. We also speculate that this is Rusty effort to buddy up to his fellow Vespers. What's behind his true prior augmentation surgery. It's not cheap, and it's not particularly widely evidence that any Balam members are augmented gen augment without any issues with his humanity, want to disclose. Or perhaps he's not an augmented discover about Rusty in this mission is that he typically use. Instead, he favors kinetic weaponry this suggests that he has prior experience would just take up the laser weapons, secretly Rubiconian because of this, as all of the my own speculation. Rusty 's biggest secret on which reveal Rusty was communicating with the interrupted, but I'm going to try and fill in the are referring to. It should read something like technology stolen by Elcano. You must keep the plans within ARQUEBUS. He and Uncle Flatwell corporations to develop an AC that will but I'll talk about this more as just know that Rusty is trying to tell the RLF their secret weapon. Some of the RLF present at Friendly comms from before the start of their we can't beat the top Vespers were as good Liberation Front's little sister. She doesn't She can still love and be loved. Have a family. Vespers comes back to this technological gap that their BAWS AC parts, like the Yaba generator, narrowing Rubicons post closure technological hurrying to improve their combat forces to the the corporations would eventually return with. And Rusty and the other corporations are conspiring by their outdated ACs, many of which fight without UAU, for example. She arrives towards the end of was off duty, but perhaps she heard about what was &quot;You AC pilot, you're no comrade of ours, are you? reads A warrior of the Rubicon Liberation Front. parents, who, tempted by the promise of riches entry to the planet. Only Ziyi survived the crash Flatwell of the Rubicon Liberation Front, and As she grew up to become a Coral warrior &quot;I'm a not give in. Forged in ash we stand as one. alone.&quot; Perhaps this is why Little Ziyi's emblem and her dialog reveals her desperately striving Rubiconians worrying about her constantly. Arshile. I couldnt keep my promise&quot; &quot;Confirmed death dialog mentions someone called Arshile, who identity is never made clear in game, but we voice actor credits. Turns out Arshile is the mission briefings. &quot;Raven. Here's an operation he's also the one who gives you an alternate asking you to engage in a prisoner rescue mission who Arshile eventually thanks you very personally to take on. We have authorized a solo helicopter There are three to rescue in total, including this mission only appears if you sided with As a result, Balam don't offer you the mission to punitive action against the RLF, capturing three including little Ziyi, who doesn't seem to this mission that reveals Balam has taken full extract information from at least three prominent Dolmayan. &quot;We appreciate your support. Raven. We not an option. Coral, abide with rubicon&quot; &quot;We're escort AC&quot; &quot;Focus on the chopper. Shoot it down!&quot; wells.&quot; It's revealed that Balam's interrogation Coral Wells. And based on the status of little likely extends to torture. &quot;You-You came for me.&quot; still alive, At least. A little rest and I'll pay us covered&quot;. Not to mention, Conrad Messam is &quot;we've extracted Comrade Messam, But we we're last site. Just a little more Raven&quot; we know that you betrayed Balam, they didn't get to discover interrogation &quot;The Coral wells are the Rubiconians this mission is the earliest 621 can get to Father the Rubicon Liberation Front. &quot;Father Dolmayan father. Coral abide with Rubicon.&quot; You-You don't left, but dying embers&quot; here we see an example of fears rising to the surface here, perhaps thanks father of the Rubicon Liberation Front veteran Coral Mysticism. As a young man, Dolmayan was once star system. In the fire's aftermath, he developed belief informed the founding ideals of the Rubicon countless Coral warriors Dolmayan's idea of someone who takes Rubicon as blessings roar this dosing is not true symbiosis with the True symbiosis is something that even Dolmayan later on. Before the end of this mission, We'll This man here who has Michigan's ear and a folder T&quot;hat's-That's a Redguns AC&quot; &quot;Escorting a prison that. But I fried bigger fish than you.&quot; &quot;that's and The brains to Michigan's muscle&quot; gun to Nile's the Balam Group AC squad, formerly the a paramilitary police organization that Nile distinguished himself with an exceptionally he never managed to put in handcuffs was Michigan, fleet having failed to arrest the man, he instead This is extremely revealing. We learn that the and we learn that Michigan was the commander so Michigan rivaled Balam before coming over to drink with Nile that preceded him joining Balam a shine to you&quot; &quot;confirmed, gun two Nile is down&quot; there will be nothing left for dying embers.&quot; rescued our comrades without your help. Father Coral warrior who witnessed the fires of Ibis and No, i shouldn't. He carries a heavier burden before you go, thanks for saving Ziyi, I owe speaking here is Arshile who shares this deeper sea lives on in this timeline., At least. there's retrieve the combat logs. A video record recovered this craft was once stationed at BAWS arsenal depicts nothing out of the ordinary. However, one corner of the picture indicative of digital display deception jamming. Indeed, there is video record is foreshadowing for something that's RLF calls on us to get to the bottom of things. &quot;I a major MT factory in the Bellius of region. The been essential to maintaining our firepower. Now &quot;I've been checking the perimeter. I'm picking up and see where they're coming from. Of course, MDD. that mech behind what happened here?&quot; Soon enough MDD the same monitor display deception noted in overrun BAWS without leaving a single trace. So for Belius Applied Weapon Systems, revealing BAWS's multiple arsenals are essential to the as they produce the MTs and quadruped MTs that Muscle Tracer, referring to the way that MTs are human pilot within this rudimentary control method control that AC pilots, especially augmented ones, much easier to use for the average person, and most enemies we encounter are MT are so essential comes back again to the idea corporations. ARQUEBUS and Balam. Are corporations they were only able to get a fraction of their though this could also be explained if we assume in Armored Core six. Whatever the case, BAWS and thus its BAWS MTs are extremely desirable for evidence to suggest that BAWS are on the side of imagine that they wouldn't be on the Rubiconians after all, one that might have even existed before BAWS's true allegiance is this record of a BAWS were shot dead by an unknown aggressor. Their log man. BAWS supplies MTs to the off world corps too. as many units as we can to bankroll Elcano. That's that? The connections... Yeah. So this guard was they're playing at neutral between all the hostile just side with RLF against the corporations, route might not really achieve anything in the assaulting Rubicon until they get the Coral, and don't have the tech advantage, as echoed is primarily concerned with closing the post need the knowledge gained from the extra planetary who, according to steal Haze's AC data, have a new model and bounce off, funneling credits tech with an absurd amount of cash. So who are graphic describing the qualities of a Rubiconian As for the parts they're known for, well, Elcano allowing for parts that are strong but light and been copying Schneider's work as well, Since all of this is helping them to create a unit of agile craft. After this tech is perfected, I who are really only held back by their outdated Rubiconians, and Elcano could conceivably become combined. Finally able to defend their planet as well. &quot;According to the blueprint, there's a If there's anything waiting for us, that's where and take a closer look.&quot; Perhaps unsurprisingly, of a Coral well at their arsenal, &quot;BAWS was You're outnumbered, pick them off, One by one, a simple check in after all. And back and rest doesn't just take over BAWS to stop all of the Well, they actually do kind of try to at this mission here. Indeed, it's quite convenient for have a watch point right next door. If you look why BAWS is able to set up a Coral well in this watch point, and there's definitely Coral beneath started to notice Pca's inspectors moving as well, reading looks like the PCA inspectors are on the corps, well, Melanite and Takigawa don't seem too products. Furlong, though.... they're pretending would never make a move out in the open. So four big corporations Balam, Dafenng, ARQUEBUS Melanite might simply engineer a set of grenade pulse tech, but furlong are indeed collaborating so they are indeed crafty foxes, though on specialists. anyway, according to the new Game this PCA inspection with a raid by independent given to us from ALLMIND, not BAWS. And as we aren't exactly in control here anymore. Instead, ALLMIND, Kate Markson and her MDD ghosts. &quot;My to ask of you. It concerns the elimination of BAWS Arsenal number two, I need you to lie in wait I'll disrupt their rear guard squad outside, then and she's totally a human. She's got a human name no, it's ALLMIND, And if it's not ALLMIND, At least. &quot;commence mission. eliminate the Pca's your support, Raven. We'll rendezvous later to count on the wall climber. Keep up the good registered in the arena.&quot; In a world filled with Markson as their name? Like, really? What's more, designed to look like a fountain pen, which is a everything she learns from other races into her got away with this reference, but her emblem and yeah, Kate's AC is using ALLMINDs mind beta unit, benefits from the breadth of ALLMIND's Research Mind Beta, can autonomously operate in actual mercenary. And ominously, it's this exact background of the BAWS guard's last words here sent in first. As for whether these ghost units They show up everywhere that ALLMIND is involved tactics throughout the story. So in your first try and figure out what happened. The arsenal. But from ALLMIND's perspective at a point where she's wants to ward off the PCA's incursion with mechs the PCA with her ghost units, but that would have Markson and hired independent mercenaries like them on behalf of BAWS &quot;Raven, I finished mopping made an unexpected move. Let's rendezvous for &quot;As much as I'd love to stop and chat. I'm afraid of this mission is that it's revealed to Walter fleet is on its way to Rubicon &quot;attending scene. inspection team. Mercs made a big mistake.&quot; termination.&quot; This isn't subject guard That's special forces. &quot;Their suppression fleet is coming There's no avoiding this encounter now, wipe outriders. A set of extramoy, which is a name and the catafract also shows up. The name well except for the giant obvious weak spot that approach head on. Except the hound, Of course. can't be... It-It really is Raven.&quot; Confirmed, all 621. &quot;Excellent work. Raven. You've shown me as well as other PCA forces besides, in the story that we'd know why. 617 and 619 and 620 were don't. Our only clue really comes at the end another member of Overseer who wants to burn the for a change. I see you've got a new augmented jobs they did, what it took to get us here.&quot; This hounds achieved, it was a part of what got us was raiding a PCA base in order to hack them PCA systems.617 and the others could have even in the closure system. We just can't say for we get dialog from Carla that leads into the number two and defeat ALLMINDs ghosts. Carla hacks &quot;I found the data our friends left behind. There's you obstruct the mandatory inspection and side about the watch point instead. &quot;we've run into &quot;Yeah. Independent mercenary. Goes by Kate.&quot; I think it's fitting, then, that we discuss a place that she is also extremely interested in. of mine. It concerns a certain facility, a watch Coral. Now it serves to monitor the dormant veins. what Walter hopes to achieve by destroying the that there's something promising at the watch more than happy to let Carla dig around there this huge blow to the PCA. However, in a lucky causes an unexpected Coral surge and monitoring and all of the corporations to the true source a friendly little wave mutation in our head, it's just one AC&quot; &quot;Who were they with?&quot; &quot;We can corps don't want to attack The watch point for declaration of war and a severe escalation. And this early on, it could put one of them at a as an independent mercenary, we're able to go. A independent mercenaries here as well. The most ALLMIND's ghosts carrying an extremely important detected. It's happening. The aging mercenary is must now bring the third factor into play. It's at what ALLMIND's plans are, and how she intends at least. So I'll explain her plans, and then times in new Game Plus plus you'll hear ALLMIND is to achieve something called Coral release. So at the Rubicon Research Institute discovered the which it multiplies was determined by the density to grow inside of a vacuum, Coral density would be also discovered was that the Coral would begin to that these mutations would bring about a Coral I think we observe in the third ending of Armored dense that it collapses in on itself before being universe. In this ending, Coral and humanity are as a good thing by some, though the word collapse of human civilization that this event would three main factors required for her to achieve factor, and a third factor. She's never clear puzzle them out by looking at the context in which here, where ALLMIND notes that she has to wait for in place. This one's pretty clear. She kind of needs to be found and then repaired by ARQUEBUS, Coral from Rubicon's atmosphere. As for why she's that ALLMIND has infiltrated ARQUEBUS to a large to repair the vascular plant more so than Balam the context of destroying this machine. Hal 826. ALLMIND needs it to be destroyed by her secondary is just any pilot she can wield as a weapon to point it's Kate Markson, then another point it's datalog refers to the pilot of Hal 826 as that almost certainly talking about handler Walter project. She complains that he has greatly delayed what is the third factor? Well, it's actually or a wave mutation integrated with an augmented Coral density effect creates wave mutations which ALLMIND needs a wave mutation, The third and final is mentioned here in the observation data found a wave mutation and she has an aging mercenary who her plan of Coral release. This aging mercenary points Control center. the targets inside. Make incorrigible handler, Walter. How many of your a bit of a history with Sulla. And it's here two of Walter's previous hounds. Where's 619 and the new game plus plus variant of this mission, that he killed. &quot;Was it 618 I killed last? He was know that Walter has at least six hounds to date. defeated while assaulting the PCA, and 618. And who was killed by Sulla. But who is Sulla, Really? You may have survived a little longer, if only A veteran independent mercenary who was active fires of Ibis. Sulla is a patient of generation as the technology in its infancy had less than a others, Sulla is followed by the specter of death Sulla lost interest in most mercenary work and currently employs him, so while it's unclear why we certainly know who employs him now, ALLMIND. to. Don't think twice. 621. Kill him before ghosts here in New Game Plus Plus wasn't enough there's also this list that appears later showing and one of them is clearly Sulla, who Walter organized into four columns, with each column Only generations 1 to 4 are listed here because successfully used pulses of Coral to augment including you and Sulla, have been highlighted make contact with a Coral wave mutation, which Incidentally, this might be why ALLMIND decided place. There was a Coral well there, which might a Coral wave mutation. This C model mid-range one more thing to if you look closely, we see with Ayre here. And if you look even closer, we known wave mutation. This checks out as before And we'll talk about her later. And then before mutation that led to the first Coral collapse and in more detail later on as well. &quot;Handler Walter, Walter are a threat to ALLMIND. You'd think that as a potentate for Coral release. But she clearly one of Walter's hounds. And yet, when we kill He correctly hints that ALLMIND will be targeting arena bio states that he lives only for the explains why he's so honest with Walter about us. Coral release for its own sake or ALLMIND's, He's in his comms. No matter how this fight ends &quot;that Handler Walter.&quot; And Sulla is not wrong. Because we do go on to factor in her plans. Because not Sulla. &quot;There. destroy the 621. We're done here at back to base. Wait. An older type of augmented human, fourth a rubiconian. Please. You must wake up before your flow.&quot; At the start of this video, I mentioned turns out that's kind of underselling it caught in this Coral surge, we won't just die. within the Coral flow. So, yeah, I think it's especially when you consider that a Coral surge when the fires of Ibis first began sweeping up and I think it's absolutely valid to consider Coral In a sense, it's never outright confirmed, but substance when you imagine that it changed with humanity. And I'll admit that we're getting but I wonder if this helps to explain. Ayre, pretty human from the very moment we meet her Disabling autopilot. Establishing comms link offline for now. That massive dose of approaching enemy. I've looked into the enemy You'll have to break its pulse armor synchronize with your brainwaves you. Picking up a massive heat Please. You have to focus on winning this. you need rest. But first, a warning. he just a glimpse. A premonition of the swarm of mine sent me this observational data. Look has a certain directionality. It's headed the Olean Ocean. Like a flock of birds or a somewhere in the ice field there's a huge, mass Ayre was inclined to stay with her Coral she's is still inclined to follow them wherever is that while one Coral surge occurred here, it west. This is because there's a difference A Coral surge is just a mass of Coral moving learn that the destruction of this watch point destroying the watch point caused the underground But what happened in the northwest wasn't A Coral explosion only occurs when the Coral is combustion to ignite Coral. So I assume that must northwestern Belius. Not that we'll ever really At any rate, this marks the end of chapter one. converge northwest, hinting that there's a larger time that 621 tells Walter that they've started voice in your head. That's a common side effect of caught in that Coral search. Don't let it bother of communicating, though it's probably non-verbal. was a common side effect of old gen augmentation. augmented humans had wave mutations in their appear quite rare, after all. Rather, the voices from the general Coral swarm, or maybe from I bet those voices were probably just dismissed of chilling to think that all along those voices as a character by design. But if there's any them. It's that they're just obsessed with getting 621 needs little convincing to immediately take cargo Launcher to cross the Alean Ocean and pursue creating backdoor into system. Deactivating lock Launching. All right, Raven, let's get to work, grid 086, an older grid than the one you landed the territory of RAD a group of arms dealers Rubiconians who treat Coral like a drug. A nearby for Coral mealworms, which don't have nearly Rubicon blessings raw instead hits your brain with addicted to raw Coral and are perpetually high. being a little bit more inspired than parts you'd for example, which came from the feverish a large number of compact explosives into a its deliveries. There's also this RAD booster development under intoxicating influences. As well, if we look at their logo, I think we can within other words, colony revitalization. RAD time for colony revitalization, then it would have human population, leaving few survivors. Thus, been a top priority and RAD was clearly founded the second piece of text featured on their logo, to be wasteful as they look towards the future and example, was once a tool used to melt down scrap originally a tool used by industrial demolition specked for demolition work. Most interesting of the frame parts that 621, and all of the rest of commendable ease of use, a fact that enables first sorties. But what's really interesting about for activities in space and were commonly tasked surface surveys of astronomical objects, I feel like these spacefaring actions must their closure system around Rubicon, and if well, it conveniently explains why an RAD AC is And it might also explain how Walter got his hands This is just speculation, but perhaps Walter closure system. Anyway, Walter has a very close so of course she's okay with him commandeering a survivor of the fires of Ibis and assistant where Walter was present as a child. We see Carla Assistant Number one, who is Walter's father, a famed artist who perished half a century his style was assimilated by AI artists and with is that this is the only original STK sketch a masked battlefield artist known as STV, who is style in the current age. Nonetheless, these and thus they command a high value among valuable to us since we've been using them to already. One other the curiosity is that every STV suggesting she's either behind these AI drawings them. In this piece, we can see Cinder Carla, and she's the smartest of the bunch. Have I seen have seen her before. In the original STK sketch drew the art in their paintings instead of using I don't like AI art? Anyway, these drawings of Coral. It appears to unnaturally prolong one's here, despite there being a half century gap Dune by Frank Herbert, this isn't too surprising Coral and melange two has life prolonging effects. always prolonged her life by going into some sort were put into a cold storage of sorts, so accessible to others to prolong their lives as reason more so. whatever the case, Carla is seen one of whom is a faithful doser who has clearly tourist? You think you can just waltz straight 'Invincible' Rummy to show our guest a good time!&quot; stomp. Ranked dead last.&quot; Like many other doses, and in his perpetually addled state, he is demigod. &quot;Me and MAD STOMP can't be beat!. gives us another insight into the side effects of goes on to read even should reality intervene setback entirely by the next day. Only death can STOMP&quot; &quot;Hostile AC destroyed.&quot; &quot;Looks like you're woman from our broadcast. That was Carla, leader them three years ago, bringing with her a crew she sees total control and greatly expanded it seems like Carla made a play at taking over member of Overseer, just like Walter, with a goal a means to an end. It's kind of messed up an organization with a stated goal of colony goal is to burn their planet and colony back to and hackers she brought with her might be some of side towards the end of the game, where I assume &quot;you know, RAD loves a good welcome party. Come first AC to receive a welcome party. The phrase suggesting that they clearly the subject turn away. As we learn later, there's a big and it's something they clearly take very we find a video record of the collector's last and it reads, wait, let's not do anything hasty. I didn't know this was your turf. I swear, the guy anywhere in the grid by now. Wait. No, please. right opposite his submerged wreck is the AC and his ex name is Bitter Promise. Likely upgrade his AC, and then short his creditors. who snuck onto Rubicon hoping to get rich quick, the extra planetary Corporation man's forays others about extensions of his own resources. take a look at what my new AC can do. My credit your skull. Why would I return what I borrow? You &quot;Hostile AC destroyed, lets move on.&quot; &quot;All right, I surrender. It's just not worth the losses. Come fight against the smart cleaner, a piece of tech down for re-use at the same time, &quot;you're in a tourist.&quot; After this, Carla decides to cut she doesn't know that you're Walter's hound. that works some of my magic to track you a look&quot; &quot;Raven. It's highly unusual to receive ALLMIND's mercenary database.&quot; When you went entries that were glitched? First Sulla's glitches 15 C network instability detected.&quot; And then a and Carla admits that she's been digging around number 11 rank... What is this?&quot; &quot;Kind of creepy Well, whatever. I'm busy. You can have this old but I'm pretty sure Sulla's entry glitches information on him after investigate BAWS arsenal we established that Carla has begun looking into led her down a path to investigating ALLMIND and I personally also think that it's Carla who's the destroyed ALLMIND ghost craft we find in game. once been heavily encoded, then cracked by a third the best proficiency at hacking, especially when that's what some rival dosers attempt to new Game Plus plus, at least &quot;you see a certain I've got rival dosers muscling in. It's the junker are a rival dose of faction. Some are even former they're moving in on her territory. So you're fellas, we got company,&quot; &quot;That ain't dumbass blow sky high!&quot;. &quot;This one is on you for taking &quot;Confirmed, Cyote force eliminated&quot; in new into that plan and managed to set up hacking all hacking drones destroyed&quot; &quot;just in time. They little counter virus. Their servers are officially the radar. Are there more of them?&quot; They even hire the story is likely still AWOL from Balam. &quot;You dam, and I'm going to prove it. You're gonna happens in this fight, though, is that during with her ghost units. In this fight, their comms manages to decrypt these communications, revealing they've identified you as an impediment to the definitely doesn't know that you have the wave all, as established earlier, the wave mutation factor for triggering Coral release. And while after that, you went on to kill Sulla and destroy her plans. It was these actions that explain the that that man, Walter, has greatly delayed our Sulla is dead and the watch point is destroyed. right now you're considered to be an impediment chapter three, when suddenly ALLMIND identifies impediment. So what happened in between to change attempting to take you out here, ALLMIND actually she was seeking in your head. And I think this while ALLMIND's ghosts are listening. &quot;Agh, that when you're gone.&quot; Whenever you fight Iguazu. He around. The one exception to this is when you on in that conflict, he hears no noise. Why? Well, Ayre isn't present with us. And indeed, in the finally does realize that it's Ayre who caused Now I can fight by your side.&quot; &quot;That damn noise. augmented human from the Coral generations, Like like Ayre. &quot;Dammit! I would have had you. Don't just speculation. But I reason that by overhearing and tries to get 621 and Ayre on her side. But to make it to the Intercontinental Cargo launcher Carla's nickname... That's what the Rubiconians fires happened half a century ago, well, it could personality, she can pass this off as a joke, but ingesting the Coral back then as well. After all, addictive habits. &quot;This elevator goes straight that's beyond my territory. I mean, once you're few of the stupider dosers took it as a challenge happened.&quot; Again, we see an example of the doses ironically proves fatal for them. In this mission, final words to each other. They say, want to hear PCA who run the satellites take their orders from our first reference to the system. The AI that just like they're doing here with their satellite cargo launcher. Fittingly, this part of the grid and thus it's in range of the Pca's satellite likely made so by the higher concentration Coral explosion near the watch point. &quot;Intruder is a place where operations have been suspended, cargo launcher. Once the Rubiconians must have And it's interesting that the PCA haven't just defend this place because it links to the central they don't want anyone making their way across to be able to access it with all their defenses but the PCA seemed to have sent a sea spider have a lot of confidence in its abilities. Is a sea spider. One of the Institute's relics As I mentioned earlier, C-weapons are Institute protect the Coral. In my opinion, it's no We get evidence that the PCA has repurposed significance. So I don't think the sea spider is the Institute built a sea spider in the first it was designed to defend places on or even in that once floated on the ocean. So I guess it been an important asset for the Institute. &quot;Enemy They were using Coral for fuel.&quot; Ayre is upset fuel. I've seen a lot of people speculating that screams. The cry of the Coral as it burns. &quot;That on track. Hop in the container. I'll operate the tourist. You're Walters hound right? Well, I tough luck. I feel sorry for you. I really the cargo launcher is strictly for cargo, right?&quot; mission, that it's your fate to burn in the fires I want to quickly note. Walter only ever says that PCA is involved, considering there are multiple systems, I want to say that it's door set up into the PCA systems, and that's ends. &quot;Ravem? You-you see it too, don't you? The Rubicon. Walter was correct in his judgment. The like you've made it to the central ice field, 621. their own way in and are ready to deploy survey after you scoped out the place to. You know what's immediately reveals a little bit more about these some data from ARQUEBUS's Coral survey in the cinders from the fires of Ibis are also considered it means it's no longer chemically reactive. cinders couldn't be used as fuel. But there's a cinders and get infinite fuel, so I'm not sure it no longer reproduce or serve as a data conduit. cinders, whatever you want to call it, this Coral that these voices are the voices of ghost, since Moving on. This log talks about how ARQUEBUS also revealing that they were built on planet to closure system, only to be abandoned afterwards. place.&quot; Indeed, the Rubicon ions don't really field. Perhaps this is because the fires of and maybe it burned this area the last piece of observation data reveals This is the place where the fires of Ibis first of the base and unearth the secrets it hides, a bomb!&quot; &quot;The PCA, They're coming.&quot; With the mandatory inspection of BAWS arsenal Number two, subject guard. This fleet and its outriders for special missions and appear here to suppress too far in their efforts to exploit Rubicon. So PCA act, quickly wiping out several of ARQUEBUS the corporations for the very first time. In Liberation Front celebrates the suppression of they know better and give you missions to take out will eventually commandeer PCA technology and Middle Flatwell, an RLF leader, you're tasked for Light Cavalry and the HHC is heavy cavalry. deems very powerful. &quot;You must be confident to than a match for some patchwork AC.&quot; One thing that there's a lot of variance in what an AC can AC's are patchwork. They're modular pieces of tech of the pilot. There's also a lot of variance when who combine a melee chainsaw with literally the like Rusty channeling pure anime Gundam main on the other hand, is a non modular tool expressly forces. In many ways, it's beyond AC tech, but a HC pilot can't change their build based on turrets are the meta now? Bazookas are the meta cutting edge&quot; &quot;you live up to your name, Raven. higher beyond Rubicons Scorched skies to chase the about what Middle Flatwell said. The others that they've given up thinking. But Flatwell, Flatwell sees a future for Rubiconian's beyond PCA. He may be the RLF's second in command, but the Coral to abide with Rubicon. Dolmayan might but it's Flatwell who seems more relevant in the of faith that Dolmayan was going through during prepare their own counterattack on PC forces, tasking you with destroying a derelict watch &quot;Code one five unaffiliated AC&quot; &quot;An attack? Why?&quot; ground, and it's here for the second time that we surge. Much to Walter's surprise. &quot;A Coral surge now.&quot; What I find interesting here is that Walter Coral surges by destroying Watch Point sensor's. and he doesn't anticipate that destroying a sensor factor here with you that he hasn't been able Ayre? we know from professor Nagai's logs that a led to the fires of Ibis. So, I'm assuming it's that are triggering Coral surges here, too. Even What's the system's verdict?&quot; &quot;Proceed. How, indirect orders from the system. The AI that a very flattering picture. The AI simply tells even in the face of a Coral surge that will cause has no concern for PCA lives, and at worst, system's ignorance about how best to handle this Raven. The Corals coming&quot; &quot;621. Don't fall would've swallowed you whole. Raven, must you mission to attack the PCA's refueling base, enforcement squad. They state we do what the on mopping up the corporate forces. Make sure to we have Branch to thank for causing this mess. that the PCA holds an organization called Branch and by extension, they're also starting to hold Branch, and you've stolen their callsign. &quot;The Priority subject for termination. High have sent the Ekdromoi, their executioners while you're mid mission. And if you die something is off with you. You're not the Raven code double 4 requesting intelligence review. Meanwhile, back in the Belius region, the Rubicon which ARQUEBUS are now using as a Coral survey setting up some other infrastructure, including the Factory. Text data in this mission reads. To Survey, a temporary branch of AREC is to be be Rubiconist prisoners of war. This reveals that not just on Rubicon, but off planet as well. From process that realigns the victim's priorities something to the corporation. That said, there are on to state that subjects who are resistant to combat skill, are to be processed according to factory. Later on, it's revealed that the factory It's also revealed that these relevant procedures some sort of amputation or mutilation. Perhaps none other than V2 Snail, the leader of the ARQUEBUS's reeducation measures Here on Rubicon. fittingly, Snail and ARQUEBUS as a whole are which is a similar neurological pursuit. Snail's augmentation surgery, Snail continued to receive the mainstream so as to make their merits his own. the safety of his repeated adjustments. Before there were seventh gens like Swinburne, and this this mission. Somewhat less capable than the other walls defenses back in Belius. His bio reads: the first to receive experimental augmentation him enhanced aptitude as a pilot without the usual either efficacy or potential side effects. overpowering paranoia, the final jewel to crown dare you attack me with my back turned?&quot; His through here. When Swinburne cuts the fight short. realize I lead the Vesper Seven squad, which means goes through me. Let me go and you'll still uptake, aren't you? Splendid. You're not like the the post mission briefing confirms his survival. this option also means betraying the RLF, consequences as well. &quot;Death and dishonor, such The Sanzu toll references Japanese mythology, before a soul can cross the river to the from Rockumonsen, an independent mercenary encounter with Swinburne ready to dive in his profile reads A wandering independent versed in long lost classical theater, he has relics of the past that he learned of from the influences his eccentric style. It's important cultures persisting. Anyway, His profile goes on when Rockumonsen was on the brink of starvation, shelter, and ever since that day, he has been comrades harm. We see these two here in the STV food with acts of kindness Like this, it's not RLF's affection. &quot;I shall pay my dues. Watch oathbreaker... Treachery benefits none. Coral take Next up, heavy missile launch support. The time they've joined forces with the PCA. What's it takes place in. You're actually launching place you met Ayre after triggering that Coral considers it RAD territory. So it makes sense that their pawns. &quot;We started without you. Tourist. get I suppose they're an eager bunch.&quot; &quot;We're all set. intends to show them some fireworks. And it's time. Chatty Stick, an AI whose profile reads the Cinder Carla. One day, Carla built a simple and occasional entertainment. However, no matter would never say more than necessary. Instead, it to his creators free spirited, eccentric ideas. chatty never provides more dialog than necessary. serving his creator's needs, actually gives him a from other dosers reveal a distaste for AI. that same logic, they muse on Chatty's AI as well. from a grid in the distance. Presumably this is with the PCA. And it's this grid that you destroy. the best Chatty. Here come the fireworks.&quot; This next mission doesn't take place in Belius between in the Alean Ocean, which hides a floating ago. This floating city is called the Xylem, sucks up water from root to leaf, sustaining the mean that the Xylem could gather or monitor Coral does translate to ascend after all. However, in have served as a maritime relay for transporting Research Institute might have simply used it as ocean. And another piece of speculation I have first settlers to Rubicon in the first place. the Xylem is described as a colony ship, and the habitat for people long ago. Now, however, it's that have been left intact here. &quot;Unknown intruder have taken down Walter's survey drone. He says it that he's masking the fact that he sent this would still be operational for them later in the his plans. His drone reveals: Xylem remains fully did their best to hide the place, but I'll find a the PCA and.... and who? who, other than the PCA B2: deployng antigens.&quot; Walter could be about to it, So, So would Overseer. But alternatively, ALLMIND. Past missions have proved that Carla and simulations and cracking the codes from her ghost slowly figuring out how much she knows. What's survey drone, they're identical to ALLMIND's ghost called antigens deployed as autonomous defenses YouTubers SmoughTown here, as I wouldn't have their own video on AC6's lore, so definitely check enough for you. Anyway, In that video, Smoughtown have been Institute machines due to their presence the Institute, and very recently they were proven not long ago, Future Press released their official names for enemies were revealed. Here we can clearly classifying them as Institute machines. This is significant because without this, you because of ALLMIND, and that she integrated these and all of the machines that fight you here know what happened to the drone. I've located in Once the ECM fog is cleared, we'll be able to see number RB-23, callsign Raven. Apologies for imminent.&quot; &quot;hostile Incoming! AC.&quot; This reveals Thumb Dolmayan. &quot;I know you menace.&quot; Although so it's also possible that he just trailed you we established that some Dolmayan was a dose symbiosis with the Coral after the fires of Ibis about yet is why he started to have those beliefs. hear a voice in his head, a wave mutation just that we now know exist. One of Dolmayan's logs her voice? Fear not, she said. There will always Rubicon's blessing one fateful day. If I were you, ashamed by my deceit. So Dolmayan was concerned voice in his head told him not to fear. Coral's so she argued that there would never be any She seemed to be contemplating the meaning of comes at the cost of her siblings ,sacrifices to our contact with Ayre, which is powerful contact. Perhaps this suggests that he wasn't he only received a brief moment of contact and desire for longer contact with the voice in his she whispers to me from inside. She tells me that City, something about the potential for symbiosis. then perhaps I can join her on the other side. The journals of Institute City reveals that this wave of Ayre, and since they're going through past of Ibis. But perhaps before the PCA closed off about the potential for Coral release, something Dolmayan carried the fate of mankind on his elevate mankind and the Coral to a new plane achieve symbiosis for himself or anyone. After STV notes: Old man looks like he's seen She says that she will respect my wishes. If the world of mankind. Yet if I do not here I them too? The voices. just as I once did.&quot; This Perhaps his wave mutation went silent as the heart. &quot;How much of our Hymn have you heard, within us all For none of us shall cast the die.&quot; state of intentionally not casting the die. The a plea born of Dominion's fear and the reverence forgive me. Forgive this old craven&quot; This reveals though it seems she has long since fled Dolmayan's committed to a doser's symbiosis with the Coral Rubiconian symbiosis is no more than suppression was informative.&quot; Dolmayan's watered down release as the way forward for humanity, a race of ALLMIND fulfills that familiar rogue AI trope of even if it comes at the expense of what the actual we learn that the RLF's action against Swinburnes as the PCA swooped in and suppressed both ARQUEBUS sending forces to attack the wall, even back when attack ARQUEBUS as well. And they're still sending failure to climb the wall in this place. We find an AC in front of RLF forces. Specifically, the was piloted by Index Dunham before we destroyed was plentiful, infinite before the fires of Ibis. academics in their ivory tower underestimated laid their weaknesses bare, they burned it all to Rubicon Research Institute did indeed know about for mankind. They kept journals on the topic, it was probably because they understood its giving a speech here suggests that the RRI burned couldn't handle symbiosis with the Coral, which their founding father, fears symbiosis via Coral if the RLF do eventually achieve their goal of it be until they crave a more complete symbiosis? what if Dolmayan is dead in this future? What protect against Coral release forever? &quot;End of is ring Freddy, your would be assassin. And the Rubicon Liberation Front. Paramour and personal distance from his fellow comrades. An admirer of battlefield so that the father of the Liberation old fashioned term for lover, often used in the is even conveyed in the RLF's STV sketch, around Dolmayan. Not exactly subtle &quot;Menace to the next attack. Father, give me a sign. What please.&quot; &quot;AC kindling has gone silent.&quot; But we're against the PCA on behalf of Balam. Since the PCA &quot;318 sustaining damage.&quot; &quot;Requesting backup, code Not the most Secure of the lines. there, I've made you.&quot; Again. This isn't the first time that at the watch point too. He really must have a back That AC must be our independent Merc moving the same. Violate the law, You'll pay the price. 621. Go for the jugular&quot; &quot;Enemy System silent. HC was a beautiful massacre at the wall. You're a Join the Redguns, Have a career, Climb the ranks. will get you too. That's all. don't forget what I reveals his superstition for the curse of gun 13 Perhaps he really just hopes that you'll Back at the Central Ice field, 621 is given a job assaulted the BAWS's arsenal in the the RLF are fearing that the corporations will so the RLF give you the chance to take out the PCA that Raven appears to be operating on Rubicon be dead. However, they still haven't figured out Priority target for removal. You've got some nerve this. Did you really think we'd let you walk?&quot; fact that Coral had been rediscovered on sent the corporations into a frenzy. &quot;You've made and order under the PCAs watch&quot; previously a death they'd been briefed on Ravens fighting style. been training for that rematch. &quot;Go double four. the combat simulator has misled me.&quot; Who are you? against Raven, that they wouldn't bring a craft to attack the empty craft that is just begging about this Raven character. Borrowed licenses are has tasked you with taking out the PCA's berthed space. Luckily for you, the heavy warships the comms blackout doesn't last long, and &quot;Code 15 targets for termination sighted. time I've got your back, buddy. Hope you've got mine.&quot; target.&quot; Overcome the PCA here and they call in by the Institute and later commandeered by the to attack you for so long before resorting back changing its behavioral pattern. Answering to a After this, the corporations team up, and even need something strong enough to punch through its the same directivity that led you to the ice field long ago, Carla started developing a secret for is hard to say, but whatever her target perhaps. Unluckily for her, the rail cannon was named Honest Brute. Initially, she trusted this seen alongside her and Rummy in this STV sketch Reddit, Honest Brute might have been the one who We can infer this because another Reddit user many RAD parts contain the letters C, B, R, and S Chatty Stick and Honest Brute and the Strider, brute. Indeed, the strider was weaponized by RAD. major doser force. Brute was originally hired by caught the attention of Carla, who found him quite and social assertiveness are common psychopathic was a psychopath and a pathological liar, brute and technology with him, a loss that was too great apparently, as she's known where his hideout which Carla reveals is one of the first sectors Ice Field was likely the first place that the expanding across the Alean ocean to Belius, where inland. The states of disrepair correspond the older it is. Thus, the greater its state of as grid 012. &quot;Welcome tourist. It's a delight to &quot;here at grid 012 brute commands a force of doser Belius as well, where they stage attacks on Carla the coyotes were former members of RAD. It reads: trust him? You think Carla's better? She's got the lady, but you're a little young for that stolen what? What's ironic here is that Carla was telling is a pathological liar. &quot;We built that AC at RAD, weeps. How the rail cannon weaps, torn from their A milk tooth is a tooth from a set of early replaced. It's a very poetic name for an AC that replaced by RAD. &quot;My friend, this is a gift. Thank he didn't like who he was or was pretending to be. that Ayre dislikes, and it's somewhat surprising confused by him, and must find this human to be this makes sense, considering Ayre is a being that Brute, it seems, would not be a fitting vessel it bears mentioning that ALLMIND has been here. data reads: The after effects of the fires of Ibis observe a number of sites. The central ice areas that cannot be observed off planet the find the first watch point there. So ALLMIND is or recorded around the time when she was searching ALLMIND comments that a couple of surges followed even shown that one eventually occurred here presumably still in control. Presumably these Coral from underground to eventually converge and it's that the corporations have begun seizing is effectively already lost. In this mission she no one can&quot; and ARQUEBUS are truly confused as resource. &quot;The Liberation Front? The Rubiconists this?&quot; &quot;It does not please us to lose the orphaned their sacrifice will be rewarded.&quot; Here, ALLMIND a living thing. To her It's just as valuable as if it aligns with her goals. If it doesn't, Ayre is kind of the same. She too doesn't love the up a Coral generator and fire Coral weapons if For them, the ends justify the means and it's definitely a lot more ruthless than Ayre. At least Kate Markson over here in the next mission, Ayre from the Engebret tunnel. Engebret or Engebret, I Two words that work pretty well considering the place. &quot;Thank you for doing this for me, Raven&quot; in back online. It's hard to know if these machines learn that Coral can indeed control craft as well. word I read in the Parts list, and that's Coral weaponized Corals swarm intelligence and used it which uses Coral to track enemies and detonate. So like the Coral Launcher are just some of the the institute's other questionable experiments was mentioned in a data log down here, &quot;another old augmented humans, the same Coral technology that made contact.&quot; It's interesting to think about. especially when Coral was involved. But will it a better future for humans and Coral? Or these atrocities can never happen again? In this corporate base against a PCA fleet. But another Raven. &quot;Augmented human C4 621. We're not here to you can do it justice.&quot; The word Raven has a long it was the name for all mercenaries, no matter who being a raven means something slightly that age of independent mercenaries and their the will to choose what one finds for.&quot; So in this it, you have to embody the one thing at the heart will to choose what you fight for. &quot;Raven, we See where they go on a Raven's wings.&quot; The most their operator knew you would be there. I feel of the job you were about to take on, and were us to branch, the hacktivist collective that alongside Chartreuse and King. &quot;Let's get started, 89.6% mission success rate. UMBER OX is piloted by firepower. intercept the two targets.&quot; &quot;There's I'll clip this one's wings.&quot; &quot;Not alone. This is we established that branch, This mysterious corporations to Rubicon. This lure involved also involved an attack on the closure system, attacking. Chartreuse's bio reads an independent that the Coral response was rediscovered. Held to active in the Rubicon system, Chartreuse is a critical blow to the closure system during his bio is much the same, except it specifies confounded an entire fleet of heavy warships in station 31. &quot;This isn't right! you're just a Gen has this bullish attitude with the emblem and AC some lore related to her as well. It was designed but during its development the specs were stolen this thief was Chartreuse, and the fact that she show of what branch truly values. Again, they're in freedom of information, whether that's free Rubicon. In my opinion, they don't fight for any for Ravens and other mercenaries to champion a opportunities than the breaking of Rubicon closure You might not be so different from the other he has a 89.6% mission success rate and as such reminder that even though they're part of branch, jobs they take on. Speaking of missions, though, here, just as you've taken on the job to defend then King reveals that you were why they were for our friend. Chartreuse. We're leaving.&quot; &quot;what We're done here.&quot; It's important to them that you of them resolve to keep on fighting for branch standing. Chartreuse, A new raven will arise them.&quot; As for the name branch, I think it could the branch that's only there to support the Raven. will to choose and shape the future. It could even perhaps. Overseers Emblem is a tree, which I could imagine there being a sequel to Armored our renown as a Raven. And in this sequel, I could Chartreuse and Ravens operator can be seen here and we can tell Chartreuse and Ravens operator wearing a sort of headset here, while Chartreuse nightfall, which is Ravens AC. Anyway, with to destroy the Ice worm. Long ago, the Rubicon for its ability to tunnel underground, though undying unit for defending the Coral. It it down. &quot;It's not every day you see competing 621. You're ready.&quot; &quot;This mission depends upon you &quot;Main System, activating Combat mode.&quot; &quot;Commence operation with combined AC force as per the time to die.&quot; &quot;Act like a professional outfit and I ain't here because I want to be.&quot; &quot;This is die before I get a chance to fire, buddy.&quot; you. Enjoy the show. And don't forget to smile.&quot; Initializing ORC Firing sequence. Connecting EML Sighting direction. A-Okay. 90...95. I won't open for a direct hit.&quot; &quot;That freak actually did the first hurdle.&quot; The targets deployed drones, shell.&quot; &quot;One step ahead of you, commander&quot;. on straight. You ever thought about switching Redguns Hell on Four Legs, But I'll pass.&quot; &quot;You I am ARQUEBUS. &quot;Don't do this to me Head Bringer. all Balam's Redguns can muster?&quot; &quot;I see ARQUEBUS &quot;Gun 13 show him how actions speak louder than &quot;Folks, we've underestimated this beast. of control.&quot; &quot;Looks like things just took output. We can't afford to lose control of the &quot;We're not through yet. Its primary shield is on your own now. withdraw.&quot; &quot;Stay cool buddy.&quot; EML modules connected. energy turbines at full valves closed. Disabling limiter. 100.. 110... &quot;The target's Coral shield has been wiped out.&quot; is getting stronger. Hurry!&quot; &quot;Is it over?&quot; &quot;Get freelancer really did it.&quot; &quot;It's finally over. &quot;Coral voices... lost again. Raven. There's It's my family. My brothers and sisters. I tide. A Rubiconian without a body. No one even you're the only one who...&quot; &quot;Go get your rest, 621 their negotiations with ARQUEBUS for this mission, down the ice worm with 621 as their mascot. In strength with the PCA's own warship fleet. Now, the Coral reignites. And while Balam was the one the balance of power is increasingly tipping going down deep. There's no guarantee you'll come I'm counting on you to reach the Coral.&quot; &quot;Watch deep inside.&quot; The first depth of Watch Point platform called the nepenthes. Its name sake is to its edge with a sweet smell, only for them to tube. It's aptly named, as this tunnel is much half of Balam's forces to ash. I feel like it's past the nepenthes these without destroying it, is ARQUEBUS. But then you come along nepenthes line&quot; &quot;Confirmed, target destroyed. Mission is silent.&quot; Depth two is more interesting. The designed to transport resources. And here Balam many of Balam's forces now view you as. &quot;Been traitor.&quot; &quot;Eliminate them. 621.&quot; But none hate you above ground. Let me tell you, I'm sick and tired is dead.&quot; Interestingly, Iguazu thinks he can Balam your head. But as usual, his proximity to Not now. That crack messed me up. Learned some new makes you so special, Freelancer?&quot; In reality, own augmentation damage. Nevertheless, your lack sends him spiraling. &quot;This isn't... this isn't plus Iguazu confronts his own shortcomings, instead. &quot;You must be Raven... Yes, you do Iguazu couldn't beat you. Why he abandoned his what a pity. You shouldn't have been so hard on after his habit of unsolicited visits. His bio way into an effortless entry to Rubicon. Having forays well before they made their move, he is thinking ahead. A specialist in corporate wetwork, of those who do not wish to be seen getting their he claims that you can smell the real killer have an extraordinary ability to suss you out. with something else I see. How poor Iguazu Must even an STV sketch that looks like it could depict hired killers on the prowl, managed to sneak in a back what he owes, one said. If I had to guess, hiding in the grid who refuses to pay his debts. one who tried to force Nosaac to pay those debts, hired standing killers could be the collector, dosers in the grid while trying to track down could this actually be Nosaac hiding? Or is it the it look like they're holding a child? Of all the wrong in this one, so sound off in the comments a grudge against you? He's completely obsessed. the enforcer, an AI controlled prototype that detected in third sector defense program. Phase target.&quot; &quot;Enemy analysis, Complete. That's the the PCA.&quot; PCA's heavy reliance on AI is what helps ensuring that even after they're gone, the AI will it's in this mission that Walter starts to get to understand that the voice in your head might 621. As if hardly need help from me. When did you is silent. Walter should have some data on the in depth three, A high powered laser barrier is destroy the adjacent reactor. But an AC is waiting pattern C. Terminating Threat.&quot; &quot;No vital signs... There's no time. Get rid of it.&quot; This AC is an unpiloted AC developed long ago by the RRI. operation, though the Unpiloted AC itself can can facilitate. And it's these institute AC's that have a distinct focus on the biological analogies two to complement each other and evolve in she says. And while we're on this topic, we can AC's and Rubicon in AC's. As for the extra humanity to be powerless against its environment. subjugate this surroundings. And in contrast, the and have a tendency to focus on harmony with the that they have embraced humanity's potential as intend to maximize this through optimization of well, she tends to select for parts that have high of augmented humans. That's because she her plans for Coral release. And you aren't her and many plans. This request comes from ALLMIND. with top level security. I expect it must be about There is an obstacle to the project that must be special intelligence officer, a second generation the corporations, but it seems he has had a last ALLMIND never specifies how she knows O'Keefe has ALLMIND. If I had to guess, I think O'Keefe from within ARQUEBUS. He's become apathetic. &quot;The augmented human can be the key.&quot; In this screen, arranged in columns. Within these, highlighted in presumably believes can trigger Coral release with C4-621 is the player, and C3-291 is... Well we be O'Keefe, but ALLMIND just specified that he's a third gen. So okay, what about Dolmayan? Well communicated with a wave mutation, though his never mentioned whether he was an augmented human It could be Rusty , I guess, but at this point I'm we don't know. We don't know who C3-291 is, and I think? Looks like they found a strong candidate as I am, I'm not ready to die yet.&quot; &quot;It seems has sent. But you can be the last. Be careful. a member of an older generation of augmented he worked as an agent carrying out espionage information department and agreed to sign up generation nine augmentation surgery to counteract confirms that reversing the burn in effects of good news for 621. Unfortunately for O'Keefe, improve his state of mind. His emblem and AC name once full of life, now wilted. &quot;Life on Rubicon here.&quot; But even in his despair, he's identified whatever Coral release would bring. Possibilities don't even know what you're doing, do you? Let You think you want Coral release, but you don't. flavored sludge. Sure it sucks. That's being comments that one of these vespers offered him had to guess, O'Keefe would be this man here trying to cheer him up. So this buddy would See you on the other side, Rusty&quot; This last line isn't dead. You've actually yet to face him in say see you on the other side? It could be that inevitably die eventually, and that O'Keefe will and O'Keefe might know that ALLMIND is coming for Rusty's new AC and ominously says the time is not been tasked with killing Rusty, and perhaps this as we find out later ALLMIND is most likely the it's possible that she kills Rusty and O'Keefe O'Keeffe. he may seem like a pessimist, but he co-exist with what we want.&quot; This is a very dark exist within this universe, and Coral release assumedly what is a sort of eldritch, unknowable died while he was still human. The war fatigue that the RLF mentioned in the next mission, which to this end. Middle Flatwell, the de facto leader holds sway over a contact with an ARQUEBUS, so he lures these two Vespers into an ambush. &quot;What sir?&quot; &quot;that's just Snail being Snail, my boy. there'll be trouble if he hears that kind of Ready when you are, Raven&quot; &quot;Stop! Ambush! no abnormalities.&quot; &quot;Good. open fire.&quot; &quot;That was a the first time Snail sent us running at a moment's sir.&quot; If I had to guess, Pater is shown here in mostly by the process of elimination in terms of a AC. His bio reads: like Swinburne, Hawkins is a many colleagues and subordinates to the progress However, he has reached a certain peace with their is far safer than those of the past, free of the generations or the grisly accidents of the interim there is never a mention of any augmented humans explains why these were interim generations. being pivoted away from using Coral, and it's very So in summary, generations 1 to 4 used Coral pulse to substitute the Coral's effects with something had achieved that substitution effect. The most of which Pater is a product. Pater pilots the A product of generation ten, the latest and Pater represents the culmination of efforts to replacement technology. You'd think that is one of higher in the ranks, but instead it's commonly the that means you've probably had less time to stick on to read: At times, his noticeably unreserved One might assume this to be a side effect of the since long before his augmentation. &quot;V5 Hawkins sound too bad.&quot; Peter's AC is named DUAL NATURE, self. &quot;No! I-I Just made V5&quot; &quot;It was a privilege, comrade in you yet&quot; here flatwell has the same It's yet another subtle hint at Rusty's true buddy, he's using RLF language. Not something he the mission to ambush the Vespers, Rusty takes the battle, he kills gun one Michigan, a task you can kill the best character in the game &quot;just get it sense Walter's reluctance to kill Michigan. a history with Michigan, and this reluctance there you maggots!&quot; Looks like ARQUEBUS and some only clown around here is you Kennebec. You're The only gun 13 thats managed to live this long. your favor. You better keep the emergency eject his affection for his troops. He knows them all in battle against the wall climber. &quot;Yeah, I heard yeah, the deserter who pissed his pants and ran&quot; Iguazu's worth a hundred of you. Which means nothing productive. Why don't you do the SIR.&quot; &quot;Shut the stink hole and start shooting&quot; &quot;Listen up maggots. This field trip is now but follow me if you got a death wish.&quot; Ready to can one merc do this alone?&quot; &quot;Time to finish the the pressure.&quot; &quot;Maggots! Do you read me? You can a bad fall!&quot; &quot;AC LIGER TAIL destroyed. Gun one the end of the Redguns. You did your job, 621. Rubicon. The politicians will be fighting there planet conflicts looked like. Is Balam HQ facing Rubicon? It's hard to say. &quot;621. We're picking up laser barrier, we can explore deeper underground. the Rubiconians used to breed for food, as they meal worms. Looks like they're out of commission likely be transported above ground or further that we find a comms record titled Message for steelhaze Ortus. The secret RLF project that now Furlong too. It reads I have to get this back assistance. So this fallen MT has the Intel that Ortus for the RLF, and they were desperate to get agreed to provide technological assistance after force Balam to withdraw. Michigan had many former on his own head to Balam's bounty board, with was to be distributed among his former comrades been counting on Furlong to support the RLF Once goes on to read: Now the new model can finally be destroy each other. &quot;Raven, I'm reading something a mercenary who went in alone. They said. Hm, to keep around. And the higher ups wouldn't miss I hate to say it, but Rubicon still needs me. So, On the surface, Rusty fights you here to maintain their tune, but this time I don't have any other his new AC could be built, he wouldn't risk this to clash with you no matter what. And a new game tries unsuccessfully to intervene. &quot;Rusty , wait.&quot; that pilot is more than just a hound. You uncle, But potential in danger are birds of to Rusty and Rubicon, And that's power without It's too late now.&quot; Middle Flatwell arrived perhaps he attempted to ambush the two Vespers &quot;My AC can't take much more. Get out of here And that's not the only thing that makes you but you still haven't found a purpose. Never buddy. Find your purpose. Then we'll settle this.&quot; it. Good.&quot; &quot;I'm picking up a major Coral response moving. Raven... A city, from before the fires we couldn't find it.&quot; Finally, Walter returns It was here that Professor Nagai worked with his These assistants were assistant number two, who who was Walter's father. As noted by Professor research. STK even notes that he's headed for a Walter's father completely mad. &quot;Let me tell you He abandoned his family to delve into the secrets Augmentation surgery included.&quot; One curious thing Walter's mother, though only briefly, with Nagai mother. Considering the carnival of horrors and pursuing, I wonder if Walter's mother became one died as a result, though of course, this is sins of the Institute on Nagai's shoulders, it's sacrificing himself to record the fires of Ibis in is something we loot here on an Ephemera AC that Walter admires. &quot;But there was another scientist. it all ablaze, died with no regrets. There's a it doesn't die easy. 621, story times over. It's Wipe out the ARQUEBUS AC squad and get to the the Institute machines still function left machine's was running on stable energy for half humanity so desires Coral&quot; &quot;these institute relics isn't that one with the Redguns?&quot; This is Wu bio reads: A born con artist. No scheme was as a criminal mastermind, and exploitation of his illicit Feng Shui Pharmacy operation was Balam's economic sphere and leading to widespread line about him learning business from Wu Huahai. Or perhaps this is Gun Six Red and who were Hai back to the bio. It was Nile, now the deputy Wu Huahai down. This suggests that Nile shut down Balam security force, the group that preceded of the Redguns right behind Michigan and Nile. the founding members of the Redguns. It seems that was turned to his own advantage. At least. &quot;Oh, to ignore ARQUEBUS's orders, Did you?&quot; Now that forces with ARQUEBUS, turning things to his own But Arquebus's star is on the rise. And me... I'll the silver platter. Yes... I smell opportunity.&quot; Sixth squad leader of the Vespers. Maeterlinck to have advanced the process to the point of bringing about a new age of augmentation. track record in the field, and her conduct during problem solver. &quot;V2 Snail come in. The Raven be identified in the ARQUEBUS photo here. Not just she's following closely in the leader's footsteps, here, another of his adjutants. Maeterlinck was this moment that loyalty is not returned, the situation without hearing a single word from Please come in. This is Maeterlinck requesting come in.&quot; &quot;The vespers Left her for dead. that fabulous opportunity.&quot; &quot;Did I misread the signs?&quot; area. Indeed the only real purpose. Huahui and sense of security for him to ambush you later. But IB-01 a designation that marks it as the first IB-07, A Coral powered AC. These three machines Institute, but kept secret as it was feared. They they weren't just powered by Coral, they can be series are no ordinary weapons. They're designed keep Rubicon safe. And now their original masters did you Ever wonder why it was called the Fires of 240 here, which were deployed by Professor Nagai fires all those years ago. &quot;Run the calculations. 16 seconds.&quot; &quot;We still have time. Deploy Ibis.&quot; mutation, and the Coral was resonating. This would In response, Nagai deployed Ibis to burn the he considered to be a Coral disaster. In the eyes would be preferable to what ever disaster of the Ibis series, we're not sure which, were backdrop of your fight. The vascular plant. It's which once stood so tall that it scraped the edge boosters of the institute say they make allowances is just that tall, and so institute AC designs for nothing nothing was more precious than this from all across Rubicon to itself. Yet this blowing the top of the vascular plant and spelling 621?&quot; &quot;The Coral resonance is fading. its creators. Voices from past fading into-&quot; &quot;No, it! What's-&quot; &quot;Target neutralized. Yes, yes. I've would try to outfox ARQUEBUS. I'll see that the and of course, let's not forget the ARQUEBUS inevitably claim the vascular plant, and 621 is captured by ARQUEBUS as his Volta backup plan which was always destined to play Decoding and playing back.&quot; &quot;621 A friend of mine know hidden dangers lurk within the Coral. but It survived, gathered, and it's been steadily is growing at an exponential rate. Eventually, space itself.&quot; Walter has a good point here. Coral a vacuum. So far, the Coral has probably stayed other Coral on the planet, but Overseer fears it overflow from a full planet, perhaps &quot;the Coral the fire that scorched the stars. This isn't an this duty to me. And now it's my turn to hand it I have one last job for you. Find your freedom.&quot; of Ayre on your side, you escape reeducation and clearly swimming here really puts to rest early They're heading towards jailbreak, an ancient BAWS who infiltrated Institute City and made field site. &quot;I found some coordinates in the AC systems. they put us on sewer duty. It's not ancient pieces Where'd it come from?&quot; &quot;That piece of scrap's combat as much as possible. Raven I'm afraid this Pater. Calling all security team members. Raven, is on the run. I have direct orders from V2 the factory this time.&quot; &quot;We're not far from our It's not a trap.&quot; &quot;Emergency beacon intercepted. kicking. Chiefs coming to pick you up, head to little trouble?&quot; &quot;Carla!&quot; &quot;Walter, he asked &quot;You should have let me handle this. RAD needs Chatty. This is our tourist's grand escape. I a chopper. We retrieve the tourists AC to.&quot; Walter.&quot; It's at this point that you, Chatty, and Overseer's ace in the hole. It's a powder keg with take over its systems before ARQUEBUS intervene. like they're falling over each other to get your full admin access.&quot; &quot;Just a little more tourist.&quot; what this city really is.&quot; &quot;The water levels thank Walter for the tip. I give you the colony is better than a cure, so reads the Latin text two people tending to the tree's branches before tree has branches above and roots below that lie atmosphere and the Coral in its underground veins. group with a goal to monitor the Coral's growth so the collapse came, and a part of their plans seems built by the institute, which is equipped with the all alight. It takes a lot to set Coral to burn burn enough of it, it's capable of setting entire the key to that. And in every timeline of Armored with Overseer at the helm. &quot;Oh, is that the to devour the Coral. The observers fear the Coral shared potential of humanity and the Coral. Raven, you need to make a decision for Rubicon has three burn the Coral? Do you defend the Coral and fight for Coral Release and force the universe to accept burn the Coral in my first playthrough, a path as they try to wrest control of the xylem away has sent its entire force after the xylem. we've got our backs to the wall right now. That's the others. I found someone just right for you. Freud's bio reads commander of the Vespers, an ace success rate during the island four disturbance. for disturbance. Clearly, this was an important War was to Balam. Freud is widely suspected much like Snail. However, the real Freud is simply his AC and making incremental improvements on But despite this, he pilots at a higher level than augmentation is nothing compared to a man obsessed his AC's name is locksmith. The perfect tool way. So bearing this characterization in mind, the unaugmented human standing apart from his part on his screen instead. &quot;You must be Raven. It better be worth it. Let's get this trash out of AC. Always the same.&quot; Freud lives for the fight. AI controlled AC. &quot;Do it tourist.&quot; &quot;I haven't seen time for fun and games. Freud. Our objective is Despite being v1, Freud hasn't played a part in came to being deployed was during the wall climber So clearly in the wall climber mission and here de facto leader of ARQUEBUS efforts in Rubicon, the one in charge when he wants to be &quot;yes Snail, I chose your company over Snails. You fight like a a scavenger bird. What a glorious view. What I him that we're not doing this for fun.&quot; &quot;not now. Freud down. Just went to say goodbye to chatty. He new body. But, well, I never could bring myself to You seem like you've lost someone to. Hope just at the Common Line, a real life boundary outer space. Here, the air is thick with cinders which apparently represent an You use this to punch through the ARQUEBUS &quot;Good job that's this sector dealt with. Wait. unidentified AC on the Xylem, head back pronto!&quot; You were just another threat to Rubicon.&quot; His no longer. &quot;Even with the combined might of the AC can.&quot; STEEL HAZE Ortus is the culmination of and the RLF, inspired by prototype plans stolen pilot in the AC six universe. Apart from you, of buddy. But this ends here and now. They've always Someone has to put an end to this injustice.&quot; might, killing his true allies in order to gain the crucial moment, but in the end, you become &quot;Where did this resolve come from? You must You found your purpose, didn't you, buddy?&quot; The this AC is intended to usher in a new dawn and that no other AC can, pushing past the point stop! I'll chase the clouds from over Rubicon... purpose you found. You finally showed me who you this way.&quot; Rusty finally had everything he needed against you instead. &quot;You flew just out of reach, Remember him. Satellite cannons? This isn't right. Who's controlling them?&quot; If Carla considers then it must be we can trust her capabilities control this fast is Ayre, A Coral data conduit who fired the satellite cannons. I know that my duty as a Rubiconian I'm waiting for the and the Xylem hurtle towards the vascular plant, that Branch attacked to open up the closure You've got a sense of humor. Good luck out there.&quot; of the Coral. And yet you turned your back on our Raven, I will stop you. I will stop you and the of this machine. Symbiosis. A shared life. I saw I could have walked together.&quot; In cut dialog, series, IB-07, what she calls a human creation many at the institute feared. &quot;Raven, you are realize what you are. The spark of war. Fires that voices exist within the Cpral. That even my brothers and sisters. Humanity wants to burn Your fire must die&quot; Here you work towards that the Coral would be reduced to cinders. Ghosts left to offer. &quot;Raven, I still believe... here in her final moments, still believing sets it all ablaze. And she might be right. The &quot;There were no winners at the close of the faded. Only the ashes of civilization remained. joint announcement with the Planetary Closure a dead planet forever. Meanwhile, the monster never to be heard from again. Yet history And somehow, 621 survives. Getting out ahead of from handler Walter. &quot;621. Looks like you got right the wrongs of the past. I'm sorry. And I'm Whatever choices you make now, I just hope you of designed to make you want to play through for you. And so let's go back three missions and Ayre. We'll save the Coral, we'll ally with the on the Xylem as it hurtles towards the vascular Walter's last wishes and taking on Carla. But asking Walter's hound, but Raven, the independent Here you can decide to fight Snail, but you a goal to take out the Xylem, after all, and me tell you my motto. Tourist. Get your laughs but you better make it worth it. Chatty, you know Roger Chief. Supporting.&quot; &quot;Don't let them team up made a friend of your own. But it's good to make friends.&quot; This confirms what we suspected earlier. when you get so good at exploring in chapter four, voice in your head. Carla's dialog here suggests to protect the Coral, which is to say he was least thought was real. &quot;This is bad, chief. Heh, owe you one tourist. No one's ever made him last willing to sacrifice herself in an attempt to colleagues at the Institute. For it was everyone horrors that was Coral experimentation. And if she would theoretically never be perpetrated again. this mission. While she does have one last plan, point in her rejecting now. After all, &quot;I gotta AC is called FULL COURSE, and the flavorful names that she has even in the face of death. &quot;Chief? Guess you won tourist... But the chief never out.&quot; &quot;Let me- Chief. I'll take us over the finish back up Chatty, believing that such an act would but Carla deemed him special enough to deserve when Carla saw you turn against them, she made Chatty, knowing his sacrifice might be necessary signs lost. Activating perimeter protocol. vector locked. All systems locked out.&quot; &quot;Carla like Walter, who both wanted someone to inherit resist the corporations on the ground. Even now, thing we have to protect. Raven, There has to inoperable. The only thing left to do is take destroyed, then the xylem will fall, crash into took the liberty of using your name to rally fights on. No one has shaped Rubicon's destiny Raven means to them. V4 Rusty was the first of honor is here. Hey, buddy. I never thought Rubicon. Every Rubiconian who heard your cry rose Rubicon beyond these scorch skies. Here, Rusty originally planned to use in Rubicon's War Against to use it like this. &quot;I never thought the plan again. I couldn't have hoped for a better silver the Liberation Front has broken into Institute Comrades, wipe the corporations. We'll show Raven. &quot;slogans scrawled in ash were never going to more.&quot; Dolmayan's slogans calling for Rubicon to was going to require heroes like Middle Flatwell beyond its own skies, beyond just dosing. And here is you. In this moment, the Rubiconians make their the ground while ARQUEBUS tries to stop the Xylem star system. The Rubiconians, though, have nothing then it's up to them to reclaim their planet strike. &quot;Surround the plant, keep pushing them Even Rusty's old Schneider AC is being put to use. to see all my hard work paying off.&quot; Rusty then from ARQUEBUS. They might share our goal of enemy and you just know Rusty has been dying to AC. identification V4 Rusty, he's supposed to be that Rusty fakes his death and goes into hiding &quot;all generators destroyed. Get clear Raven the something's said straight for your position.&quot; PCA hardware that ARQUEBUS boosted. It includes of their own. &quot;Raven, the independent mercenary. machine!&quot; &quot;You're below that you are vermin&quot; Pilot identified as V2 Snail&quot; &quot;The Xylem is our hard won Coral go up in smoke, rabble rousing overlook that. No, your crime is that you ignored be rid of you&quot; &quot;Energy output's off the charts. thing standing in the way of total control. You. be able to eradicate the RLF. Though, of course, the threat that is Rusty. &quot;We're we're losing the there'd be more. I'm beat, buddy. Well, you're Then&quot;. &quot;Out of my sight, vermin. That traitor V4. the pest of Rubicon who stirred the cinders. you am ARQUEBUS. No... I am ARQUEBUS One... Last... like it's over. I just about mana-&quot; The last sound obliterating Rusty, who is caught off guard in intercepter fleet alone so he wouldn't have had Raven. It seems we've got trouble fast. Port chamber is silent. The Xylem is fallen from orbit. The Coral safe. 621. I have to... Dispose of you.&quot; This is Snail's Walter piloting an AC that a briefing reveals HAL-826. The last of the Ibis series. &quot;Walter! Watch out!&quot; &quot;The corporation's orders... No... My When Walter says friends, he's not just talking all of Overseer who put him on this path to right of his father. Now, Walter has been tortuously been reprogramed to stop the Xylem, and is being any of these things to matter. &quot;Whatever they did, &quot;That voice... 621, I see it next to you... Yes. see Ayre at our side. He is in an AC designed We're reentering Rubicon's atmosphere. There's no die easy. You have to burn every last cinder. Burn all the credits. Undo the surgery. Be normal The mission... My friends wishes.. Look at you, the Xylem is already doomed. We could leave, do. So ends the story of the man who passed Raven. One day, humanity and Coral will thrive Walter feared a collapse. But I promise you, together. In this ending, the Coral is left to But considering the rising influence of middle the Rubiconians will be more inspired by Flatwell, sights beyond Rubicon's scorched skies and chasing words. Of course, the corporations and the PCA Rubicon, but now the tides have turned. With the stopped, and all of their tech left behind, to be reckoned with, especially considering their or 621, is the liberator of Rubicon, an inspiring Raven, she has the ability to even commandeer system on the Rubiconian's side, I don't see how again. The only footnote with this ending is that completely dependent on the Coral. The Coral will ago before the fires of Ibis. And I think this a future where humanity and Coral make contact ending is inevitable. So in a way, you could of just kicks the can down the road and gives and comprehend all of the consequences that those consequences will lead to the fires I think this ending will lead to an eventual Ayre is quite clear about desiring this deeper especially in this third ending we're about be quite ruthless about achieving that goal, is the third timeline and ending of Armored The timeline for this ending pivots much mission to reach the Coral Convergence, where will ambush you here. And ALLMIND tells you this &quot;It's like you're clear.Keep mo-&quot; &quot;Switching Raven. V2 Snail intends to dispose of you once will find yourself a prisoner of the corporations. ALLMIND will handle the rest.&quot; &quot;Confirmed, it's V2 operation within the sewers where he belongs loot in the next mission. This video record experiments that are specifically being performed the foreground almost certainly belonging to his AC is now equipped with the same stun needle and this wouldn't be the first time that Snail their strengths his own, his bio reads: After Snail continued to receive follow up treatments as make their merits his own. Many augmented humans repeated adjustments. So what was Snail testing also sounds as if it was from him, reads I see no what an AI can achieve. How very disappointing. Regardless, I will have answers. The arrival of but what essential difference makes them superior? torso intact Next time. There's a lot to unpack the factory which was mentioned earlier, and it's to reeducation were being sent for processing. So from the factory now for experiments. And the one piece. The fact that Snail specifies to leave only something like a pilot's brain or nerves thinks that the lack of a body might be what is actually testing for here? Well, basically, he's make pilotage craft so much more effective than AI this answer by inserting these dissected pieces that essential difference. But in the end, the Who, in her nightfall analysis, observes representatives of core theory put into practice. the odds of their survival, and so they have no of their bodies. Many parts in the game have of mechanized warfare in this universe was done with the arrival of armored cores came this Unpiloted craft because of their survival and as this handgun description elaborates, quarters combat and with it, the reappraisal which could be used by these human pilots forced putting their own lives on the line. Something an is. It's the theory that fighting at close range basically. And it reminds me a bit of Gundam, of also go out of their way to justify a reason when if they didn't come up with an excuse that these mechs shouldn't exist. But there are In Armored Core six, it's core theory. &quot;What's we'll report to HQ later. This had better not be &quot;we've been spotted.&quot; &quot;The independent mercenary how did you find me? I'll pick your AC's wreck for you're gonna die. Freelancer&quot; &quot;that AC, it's Gun guy from the ice for a mission with a stick wonder I felt so nauseated.&quot; &quot;It's my lucky day. you.&quot; &quot;Legacy augmentation. You disgust me. Rabid &quot;V2 Snail, down.&quot; At this point in the game, ALLMIND's calculations. He's even started to replacing previous pieces like his shield, and as the Coral to a degree, ALLMIND has identified a though at this point he isn't allied with a wave experiencing excruciating pain and paranoia. &quot;That aren't you? make it stop! Make it- it's inside ALLMIND has clearly sent a Iguazu here to fight from her because she's putting a Iguazu one of her that ALLMIND really only needs one exceptional So she pits a Iguazu against us here. I figure be able to claim our wave mutation and become her confirm this theory, ALLMIND does have cut dialog in this mission, where she boasts that we have us. We have found your replacement.&quot; Maybe she comes with the burden of having a troublesome would prefer just to use a Iguazu, but instead we take out a Iguazu here, although it's not the down. We did it.&quot; &quot;Augmented humansC4-621, Raven. ALLMIND.&quot; In this next mission, we're essentially can rendezvous with ALLMIND. Only problem is a into the depths since we last came. And getting ALLMIND seems to have temporarily commandeered the chaos. &quot;What? What are these things?&quot; &quot;I don't online&quot; &quot;Corporate stragglers still remain within ensure that they will not be a threat.&quot; &quot;Fire! &quot;We need to get out of here&quot; &quot;Retreat! over the the corporations are powerless. A chain made of it's all going wrong. and that AC's to blame! a Balam straggler&quot; &quot;Damn you ARQUEBUS&quot; &quot;Is help me out!&quot; With Michigan's death, Balam's gun six Red manages to survive, hiding out here as Iguazu pressed on further &quot;good work, gun 13. requests. And yet...&quot; &quot;Watch out!&quot; &quot;Gun 13 Raven, They're dead! because of you, Gun 13. you and that and he dies in abject terror. &quot;It was never be safe with number 13 cursing us! Damn it... Damn you!&quot; Our final obstacle is Pater, own AC. He's one of the last remaining Vespers, killed these three? you killed O'Keefe? Damn You, Pater... That's got a nice ring to it. Once left to carry on the glory of ARQUEBUS.&quot; Here we legitimately loyal to ARQUEBUS and celebrates his genuinely grieves for O'Keefe, who was close &quot;Augmented human, C4-621 Raven. Well done. ALLMIND ALLMIND administrator access. Erasing all records Raven, your safety is now guaranteed.&quot; Your in her control, ALLMIND somehow puts you to sleep. your Cerebral Coral control device, whatever that you up from stasis at the start of the game. your basic robotic assistant in what is the entered satellite orbit. Release the subject from cerebral Coral control device. Augmented human No brainwave abnormalities. Thank goodness.&quot; that you remain to sleep until the situation had control of the Xylem alone. So in this timeline, Carla have a different tool at their disposal. fighting alongside Carla and her AC full course. ARQUEBUS found the Hal-826 AC in Institute They even put the reeducated form of Walter however, Walter isn't captured by ARQUEBUS and knew about this AC as well. So now it's an option forces instead of you. &quot;Allow us to explain. You Xylem's hold. As anticipated, the corporations All that remains is to seize the opportunity humanity toward new horizons. The Coral release for the change to come.&quot; So ALLMIND has hidden when it was still back in the alean ocean before earlier mission to investigate this uninhabited system. So it makes sense that she'd leave you that she left some ghost or antigen units back in it with even more now &quot;A number of ghosts from block. These two have fallen under the control of now been commandeered by Carla, we're still able to locate Carla's parasite modules Controlling sharing progress on the battle outside. Your has a starboard block looking&quot; &quot;six pilotless same story over here. This is a bad joke.&quot; ALLMIND to distract Overseer while you take down the where is Rusty in this ending? In the Liberator help you. Thanks to a call out from Ayre he somehow manages to get aboard the Xylem to he's nowhere to be seen. Did ALLMIND anticipate was aware of Steel Haze Ortus, after all, that Rusty would die. At any rate, what ALLMIND prepared for her incursion onto the ship. Not but Carla has set up lockout protocols backing in the Liberator of Rubicon timeline. This forces it seems the enemy was one step ahead of us. control center. As for handler Walter and Carla, tourist. I Got a message from the chief for you're going down with the ship. Proxy activation C4-621, Raven. If the lockout completes, the Xylem course.&quot; &quot;You have to hurry, Raven. &quot;The chief tourist.&quot; &quot;Walter, there's something behind you!&quot; system security is down. Access the central me life. But in the end... I... Never learned &quot;Augmented human C4-621, Raven, your efforts plant. Additional. handler Walter and Cinder the final mission begins with the crushed and Walter's decapitated AC lying immobile by the corporations is beginning to resonate. to an end.&quot; &quot;Well, well, I've been waiting for so I could crush you. This time you will die.&quot; need to look at cut dialog. I believe it offers going on here. But I do want to stress that a lot and naturally should be taken with a grain of fights alongside a set of other mechs and in cut They're controlling of mechs simultaneously, other mechs might not be the typical AI piloted they're beings that have been integrated into &quot;Freelancer. You killed me. But not just once. Dregs with a grudge. So tell me, who else are you someone's brainwaves, well, this is actually even reveals that it was developed by ALLMIND's being that this weapon uses a real or replicated Ayre is busy retrieving an Ephemera AC from the fight. And as for Iguazu, he's currently piloting subjects. You would have fought in the arena, one that can make better use of Iguazu's hatred, &quot;You are aberrations to the plan. Irregulars. We that this craft is similar to the one that Ayre and you'd be right. That was IB-07 Sol-644. It by Coral and in cut dialog Ayre explains why &quot;Raven, That's an emulation of the Ibis series, aggravated state, Human brainwaves function much is that instead of being simply powered by Coral aggravated human brainwaves, making Iguazu the especially against you, &quot;Iguazu's hatred is you-You've never stopped feeling this pressure.&quot; phase two, because it's in this phase, that Iguazu it was his proximity to Ayre that was causing the head. &quot;I'm with you, Raven. Now I can fight by noise. It was you all along. I'll kill you and the problem killing you as you learn from death dialog death and ALLMIND only really needs Ayre. All that that she can integrate you and your wave mutation wave mutation, Ayre. You are the trigger for Coral siblings will surely welcome us.&quot; I don't think If she did, then she would be content to simply she wants Coral release with her at the helm. She the universe. It's this hubris that led to this she makes a crucial misstep. &quot;Iguazu, You are said I don't care about ALLMIND. You want some of to be unstoppable. He doesn't want ALLMIND. He understand this. Or at least she overlooks it. And entity that focuses on everything at such a system a chain, as she mentions in a previous mission, irregular human called Iguazu that eventually resonating with the Coral, shutting out ALLMIND &quot;It's resonating&quot; &quot;Iguazu, what are you-?&quot; fight anymore&quot; &quot;They're gone. The rings of those Now, It's just you and me!&quot; &quot;You were a mistake you either one up him or defeat him. From 621's of spite. But that's not how Iguazu saw it with was a better pilot silently laughing at him, envied you.... The freelancer who had it all.&quot; A core ALLMIND motivation is revealed here. potential. No matter the cost. We are creation's dialog as well. Ayre states that humanity to choose from infinite selections. That key to biological evolution. &quot;We have the beginning... Coral release. Isn't it beautiful?&quot; &quot;Thank you, Raven.&quot; In this moment, Raven and they are themselves spread, present in the universe. &quot;Raven, you're finally awake. The Coral Now... We're everywhere. Anywhere.&quot; remains of some old, faraway war able &quot;Raven. Let's meet this new age together.&quot; What release affects humanity. Dolmayans's writings be a tragedy for all mankind. V3 O'Keefe suggests and O'Keefe might not have just been talking about contact from this Coral surge? If so, is this all minds receptive to it, or do you have to be humanity still a state that needs to be worked intentional. In O'Keefe's words, we are chasing and that's kind of what's terrifying about Coral that way. It's very eldritch. The name of It translates to the die is cast as in what it will land on is unknown. In an excellent that the Latin name of this ending refers to the the Rubicon River in northern Italy. For Caesar, this moment inspired another phrase called of no return. Excellent video. Check it out. So Rubicon. The die is cast as Dolmayan feared. And But this is Armored Core, after all. And with comes War. Thank you for watching. This video is I like to watch videos where you can sort of break for your sake that you did that with this video. videos and then it was going to be two. Unknown everything in it instead. As always with my videos without the help of others who helped to make First, huge shout out to Mispap1, my project the editing for this beautiful cinematic footage entirely. They literally pioneered what cinematic have the proper camera modding tools. And for that So many things on our requested feature list to create what is now, I'm pretty confident in now this is something that you can use as well for in the description. Also shout out to Vlimit who stages of production. Vlimit runs this fantastic as well, and I reckon you guys would enjoy it, help. Next I have something to show you guys. So We basically transcribed every single piece of the missions extending horizontally across three extending down vertically in each mission as the who I commissioned to help me compile all of this. this map, that's something that's available to publicly available to thousands of people because So Patreon is kind of the logical way for me to if you're interested in getting access to this GrayCaliber, who made a lot of useful observations dedicated to showing off a lot of cut or hidden end. Thanks to John and Xavier as well. John sketch style and Xavier did a great job animating sketches and try to bring these characters to life Professor Nagai, who speaks in this animation, incredible voice acting to this project and who character to life. And that's it. Special thanks In particular. Thanks to everyone. Thank you