Heat-set inserts can transform your 3D prints high-quality components. Yet as the name already suggests, these small that melt, so mainly parts from your FDM 3D Though in this video, we'll investigate and how their strength compares to just directly Let's find out more! Guten Tag everybody, I'm Stefan, and welcome This video is sponsored by Squarespace. Easily create your own beautifully looking Have you ever had a piece of equipment that that the screws didn't bite anymore because and now it's totally useless? This is where heat-set inserts come into play. They are melted into the plastic so that you creations without losing any functionality equipment. If you designed something that needs to be on, heat set inserts are a great way to achieve I have already done a couple of videos on of different types and techniques. After all of this, we even started selling inserts for 3D prints in our own shop at cnckitchen.store world because we believe they are a way to Yet, so far, we strictly said that these threaded thermoplastic polymers, so plastics that melt This is what of course the most common FDM seen a huge growth in the last years. When I recently received the "Proper Extruder" quite excited when I saw that he had been parts. Jon told me that he of course didn't melt techniques until he was able to satisfyingly a unique look and added functionality. And this is exactly what I also investigated After not doing barely any resin printing wanted to dip my toes into resin printing heat-set inserts in your resin prints in the I've used two different resins: Elegoo Translucent printed on the Prusa SL1S Speed. The reason why I chose these UV resins in If you want to screw into a 3D print there a bunch. The test samples are simple plates, that are same thread length is engaged, regardless First you can simply screw into a slightly Then you can tap the hole like you would a Then you can directly model the threads in for this test are in no way a problem to reproduce printers are able to achieve more than you The only thing that I usually do is to add to allow a bit of tolerance. For M3 this is usually around 0.05 mm but and how easily you can wash the uncured resin Then we'll take a look at heat-set inserts. So as I mentioned in the beginning cured SLA and when you still try to melt a threaded anything for quite a while and then it will The two ways I tried to fix the inserts in at first, well obviously resin. So after cleaning the parts, I brushed the the inserts and pushed them into the uncured samples into the curing station. The interesting question here will be if the the resin and fix the inserts in place. Finally, the solution of solutions if duct Here I used some thick CA glue from Starbond gap between the insert and the wall. I generously soaked the outside of the brass and then used a bit of kicker to cure the If you by the way enjoy these detailed investigations, in the future and also check out our video Before we test resin, let's establish a print and a tapped PLA part. I mounted them one after the other in a special loaded them at a constant speed until something I tested 3 samples for each configuration. The heat set inserts in the PLA were super machine would be able to handle the load. At 205 kg on average, the inserts ripped very part intact. The scatter on the results was very low and need consistent performance. The tapped PLA with an M3 thread was able in the plastic sheared and ripped out. Threads usually fail in two different ways, What we've seen on the PLA part was thread simply get sheared off and often remain on This usually happens when one thread is made plastic or aluminum. Then there is thread jumping. Since the threads are at an angle, you'll the hole, and at some point, the threads will of damage. This can happen if especially the material or only has a very small wall thickness. Finally, the last special case is total destruction strong enough the completely destroy the part, the resin parts. So let's now take a look at the first set Tough resin. The parts in which I directly screwed in the with the threads jumping. On the other hand, the samples with the threads boom but were only able to bear a bit more I wouldn't have expected this kind of failure I have to be honest I simply don't have moment. Interestingly enough, the parts where I modeled almost able to hold twice the load and exploded My guess is that Prusa's Tough Resin is cutting the threads with a tap and they, therefore, But let's now get to the heat set inserts resin bonding. The first set of samples failed at only 6 Taking a closer look at the inserts showed due to its black color, no UV was able to It's going to be really interesting to see samples. The other thing that I noticed was that due really good at filling the empty voids around our inserts it was basically only glued right Compared to resin, the CA glue was a bit thicker These samples were able to bear 52 kilos on out also exploded the part. The superglued inserts were not the strongest of directly screwing into the parts while durable if you screw into them over and over. Let's now also take a look at samples that translucent resin. The parts into which I directly screwed an If I pre-tapped the hole, the samples were kg of tension force. Again, the threads that I directly printed able to hold 121 kg of load until total destruction. Next, I tested the transparent parts with I started with the resin-glued samples which the grey resin yet I still had one sample the knurlings. So we do get deeper UV penetration with transparent super reliable. The samples with the CA glued inserts were until failure and also showed a lower scatter I was a bit disappointed that the inserts effort to improve the results. In this one I adjusted the shape of the hole, This results in less gap that the glue needs makes installation way easier because the but have a physical end stop. I sized the holes in a way, that you can push the gap, yet also prevents you from damaging I printed more samples and glued the inserts used 2-part epoxy on one test set. The strength of the inserts glued with CA to 56 kg on average. The epoxy-glued inserts were a tiny bit stronger see that the epoxy didn't perfectly bond Maybe some undercuts in the hole might have The results using the transparent resin were inserts improved significantly to 82 kg and matching the values of directly screwing in Even though the epoxy showed slightly better to use, so if you don't need maximum performance The adjusted hole geometry seemed to have of heat-set inserts in resin prints and if find over on cnckitchen.store , you can use So in the end, we have seen that heat-set but if you use the proper glue and geometry The strength wasn't as impressive as in this amount of load-bearing capability. The main purpose of threaded inserts is to repeatable, and durable way to assemble and the "Proper Extruder" shows, even possible But what are your thoughts on this? Have you ever used heat-set inserts and will Leave a comment below. I'm completely honest here. We've built a business around threaded inserts And part of this business is having a professional attract new customers, and of course, have This is where we have been using this video's Squarespace can also help you! Squarespace is the leading website creation create the website you've always wanted. It doesn't matter if you're a maker, an Squarespace provides beautiful templates that You can easily add a blog, add your portfolio or enable your followers to support you by additional content. There has never been a better time to create out for free by using the link below or visiting Squarespace makes creating and maintaining editor, and if you're still getting stuck, help centers that I've ever used. Just try it out for free, and when you're 10% off your website and domain purchase if So create the website you've always wanted get your additional 10% discount by using Thank you, Squarespace for sponsoring this Thanks for watching everyone! I hope you find this video interesting. If you want to support my work, head over Also, check out the other videos in my library. I hope to see you in the next one. Auf wiedersehen and good bye!