Japan has surrendered. Japan has surrendered. Japan has surrendered. Grandpa, father, and mother. Xiaohao , all my comrades who have left me, you can rest assured. My grandfather is an expert archer. With his divine sword, he passed the examination of Qianqing Wutanhua. Unfortunately, he was soon passed away. The times have eliminated my grandfather, and he was unwilling to pass on all his unique skills to us. He did not allow us to touch the gun. My brothers and sisters and I have shot 20,000 arrows every day since we were 7 years old . Grandpa paid great attention to teaching students in accordance with their aptitude. The three of us learned different swordsmanship . It is said that the Whistle Sword I practiced was created by the Xiongnu Chanyu in the Han Dynasty. The Rabbit Armor Sword practiced by my younger brother Jinchuan was created by Yue Fei and my sister Erhang practiced the Butterfly Sword. It is said that it was created by Aunt Gongsun in the Tang Dynasty. Only by living can we have a chance to defeat the enemy, so we To learn to be independent, in addition to your skills, you also need to train your eyes and ears. In the subsequent battles, as soon as the enemy's gun is raised, we can see where he is aiming. Even if we close our eyes, we can hit the target with one sword. Grandpa also put the art of war in the tender and shoddy game It is taught to us that in this era, the world of guns is inherently weak. Only by mastering strategy and tactics can you have a chance to defeat enemies stronger than you. My father, Xu Tiejun, graduated from Baoding Military Academy. After the Central Plains War, he was incorporated into the Northeast Army and was ordered to station in Rehe. Heringcheng was also our hometown. The Japanese hadn't come in at that time . Huh, you were born in a military family. Why don't you be a soldier? My father will die as long as we fight. I don't want to kill this soldier. I shouldn't be a soldier. We were born in a military family and have seen too much life and death since we were young. Farewell has long hated the war. In order to escape the war, Jinchuan ran away from home and went to Hong Kong to study music. Music was his dream. He combed his hair like Beethoven when he was a child. For this, he was beaten frequently. His sister, Er Xing, was born weak and kind-hearted. One time when he was a child The accident left a shadow in her heart. From then on, even if she encountered danger, her sword would not leave the blood. They were a group of murderous bearded men. Dad sent people to encircle and suppress them many times , but they evaded them. Unexpectedly, they met that day. Let's not move, girl. He's pretty good. Don't come here. I'll kill him. That's the highest level of Grandpa's swordsmanship. We haven't mastered it after 20 years of practice. Grandpa said that he has been practicing for 40 years. You can keep your sword for food. Er Xing. Oh, you can't get over that thing in your heart. If you can't get over that hurdle, you will suffer a big loss sooner or later. Er Xing is my father's friend. He once served as a shooting instructor in the army. Even my grandfather praised his marksmanship. After retiring, he inherited the ancestral business and quickly expanded the family business and became a tycoon in Rehe. His father said that he was a man who was always struggling between angels and devils. No one in Rehe knew about him, but I had never seen him. I don't like tycoons. When I got married, my father also sent him an invitation, but I didn't see him at the wedding. Young Master Rong is so punctual. Brigadier Qian is so careful. Hahaha, I laughed at this little thing . Qian , a tycoon from Rehe, is really flattered that you, the tycoon of Rehe , have come out personally. This batch of weapons was raised for your friends. There is no room for any mistakes. You have to come here in person. So, it is your friend who harmed you. Let's discuss the money. You keep the weapons and I will take them . No negotiation , come on, he still has a gun , he still has a gun , let's discuss the money, you keep the weapon, I'll take it , hum, no negotiation , shoot, he still has a gun, he still has a gun, Rong Shi, you really helped me solve a big problem. Ah, with these weapons , my team can be considered well-equipped. Hahaha, brother, let's go play over there. Hey, sister , go left, left, left, right , right, fast. Hey, hey, there are rocks, there are rocks. Hey, hey, hey. Give it to me, let me drive, let me drive. Oh, don't let it be the farming season. You need to get me some more military supplies. The army will be out of food in the next two days. It's not enough. Only your two hundred people can use this much. Two or three hundred more people are coming, and every day. There are new ones joining . The last batch has bottomed out soon. I know this is nothing for you. Since you wrote me a love letter when you were in college, I will help you think of a way. Hey, this Northern Expedition. I even took a bullet for you at that time. I want to default on the debt. Haha, I think you have to remember that I won't talk to you for the rest of my life . I have to go . Why are you in such a hurry? He Ling Commander Xu's eldest daughter is getting married today. If you don't go, it will be too late. Commander Xu can invite you and have enough dignity to come to meet you in this barren mountain. Wouldn't it be more respectable for you to give this cat to you? Help me raise it. Okay. Let's go. Goodbye , Brother Changhe . Goodbye, Brother Changhe. Okay . It was the most unforgettable day in my life. Almost all my relatives and my best friends since childhood were here. Including people from my own family, there were a total of 258 people. It was extremely lively . My family had planned for that day for a long time , and at the same time, there were also Some people are planning us behind our backs. We are planning happiness. They are planning disaster for us. In 1931, the Japanese Kwantung Army launched the September 18th Incident and occupied the four northeastern provinces. In 1932, they supported the deposed emperor Puyi and established the puppet Manchukuo regime. In 1933, they He extended his claws to Rehe and planned to launch a plan to attack Heling around my wedding. Why did the colonel want to annihilate Xu Lu and force them to surrender ? Xu Tiejun is a beast that cannot be tamed . Just give him a chance. He will bite you and bruise you all over. When the firecrackers go off at 12 o'clock , they will learn from Xu Yihan's wedding greetings. When the garrison hears the gunshots, they will definitely restore the Shu Family Courtyard. Our army's large forces advance to the capital and issue enemy orders to prepare for bombardment so that the gift-giving teammates can set off. The gift -giving team is ready to go . The key to Lu Liangbiao's attack on Heling this time is that you have successfully bloodbathed the Xu family and led all the Heling garrison to the Xu family compound. Only then can our large force attack the enemy from behind and cooperate with the outside to capture Heling. Hahahaha , I hate it. I'm not ready. Is it natural to take pictures like this? Mom, why don't you just save some time and hand in the paper and then take pictures later? See how beautiful your sister is today, are you envious? Hahahaha, eldest sister, eldest sister, I didn't see my plane . I'm looking for it. Haha, where is it? Hey, where is it? It's here. Hahaha. Oh, Xiaohang, you're fat. Sister, you're so beautiful. Hahaha, second sister. She's not pretty. When I grow up, I want to marry a eldest sister. Hahaha, how can you marry me? You should practice your kung fu first and then talk about it. Hahaha, let's do some boxing . Ouch, it 's so big. Hahahaha. Ouch, don't get your new clothes dirty. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha pull over to the side. Zhenqi is also giving a congratulatory gift to the eldest daughter of the Xu family, right? Why are there so many Japanese soldiers on my brother? What 's wrong? I think it's broken. He must have been beaten by He Liang. Let's go and report that Commander Xu has been killed. They found out and killed those people. Lu Liangbiao will take action. Brothers, copy the guys and kill them. Get in the car. Brother, who are they? They must be Japanese . What should we do? Come on, get in the car and run for me. Come on , hurry up. We have more important things. I'll leave those people to you. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go , go, go, go , go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, chase, we can't let them run away. Hey, everyone, Uncle Kexi, Kai wants to take you. Brother Se, why does it seem like we're taking the main road? If nothing else, let's go around the back of the mountain and deliver a message to them. Captain Ono, save some energy and teach your people , my soldiers. I'm here to teach you a lesson. If someone beats you, bow and apologize to him. You kid, how can you look like my soldiers ? Idiots, the Chinese are just idiots. Xiao Yan, we sent a total of 6 fools, 4 of them are Japanese, two of them are mine, one of my fools came back, one of your fools came back, but none of them came back . What should I do if you get slapped in the face today? Yeah, what do you want to do? Let me go. Since you are just a squad leader , I am a company commander. Don't give me orders. Do you dare to beat me in the Japanese environment ? Believe it or not, I stabbed you. Brother Lu, please don't be impulsive to the Japanese. We can't afford to offend them. We are running towards Heling . Let's go quickly. Captain Xiao Ye, everyone listens and runs forward . Let the brothers at the side door prepare for action. Change armbands and flags to protect Commander Xu. Protect the eldest lady. Get out of the way. Ye Hang, Zhao Hua , Zhao Hua, Zhao Hua, Zhao Hua, get out of the way. Get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, everyone, go home. Stop running around here. It's dangerous , kids. Come on, let 's go. Zhou Hua, Zhou Hua, everyone, follow me and rush out. Sister , go, go, go, go. Sister, please go, go . Sister, Zhou Hua, protect Commander Xu and follow. I'm going fast, come on , Mom, Mom, wake up, Mom, let go, let go, let go , Mom, Ultraman Team , Ultraman Team, Ultraman Team , Brothers , Dad , Dad , go and get the bow and arrow. Go and get the bow and arrow . Go quickly with your bow and arrow . Get out of the way of the Iron Army . Dad , grandpa, big brother, this sword can bend grandma. Who reported the information? Why didn't you report it if you have such a master ? You Chinese people really can't stand it. Fuck you. Huh, you are looking for death. You can't get out of here. Revenge from behind is no good. Can you fight? Let me go. You go. Come on . Brother, we are late. chusa yatz are this. Grandpa , grandpa, what's wrong with you? It's over. Mr. Xu was shot. He is the god you said. Arrow Mouse Mr. Xu , Grandpa, Grandpa Xu, what's wrong with you ? The child pinched me. Brother Xiaofeng , Xiaohong, that's Miss Xu. You must have never seen her. Almost all my relatives and the people I love most left me on that day. My brother Xiaohang is only 7 years old. They won't let me go . What should I do, Grandpa He ? Find a way to find some grenades behind me . Why are you hiding behind me ? What are you doing ? Wake up , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. On the 2nd, I will take you in and escape alive. Remember that the robbers will not be merciful to you . Your sword should be out of danger. Sister , don't come out. Sister , grenade . Sister , I wish you happiness. Every day of your life , I'm on. the way that i was close inThe dynasty is looking for someone to carry all the corpses away. Go quickly. Carry all the corpses outside the city. Dig a pit. Hurry and bury it deeper. Wait. He is today's groom. Officer Xu brigade combat staff walks sinomopioba chengda Hey, I thought there was an accident. I wanted to report something bad to the big boss. A pair of devils came from outside and beat the old monk of Baohua Temple to death . The monk dared to kill him without fear of retribution. Brothers, you guys are going to avenge my wife. How about you go away? Just go and watch them, the rest of them, come with me, go, go, let me go, wait a minute, we, they, what they want to do , we can't be unreasonable, big brother, big brother, that 's so unreasonable , uncles and brothers, let's fight with these unreasonable dogs. Let go of our boss and let me watch you Japanese come up. If you don't let go of us, you will all die. Then don't let us go . They can't hold you down, princess . Uncle San, their guns are too good. Run. If you don't run, they will all die. Even if everything is dead, this thing can still be like this. Brothers, go to daddy. Why are you like this on daddy 's happy day ? Dad, wake up , brother. You left before our wedding is over . Brother, you don't seem to have enough luck in the zodiac. Huang, hahaha, sister, the wound has collapsed. It's time to run away from the debt. Does anyone owe you money? You owe me your life. I know my body has not recovered yet , but I can't wait any longer . I wake up from my dream every day. When I wake up , I have endless tears . This is the only thing left to live for. Hahahaha. Ahhang. Ahhang. Let me show you these clothes . We snatched them from passing merchants . These are all good things. My father is usually reluctant to let us take them out . Hahaha, look at this. Look, this looks good. Look how good the leather is. It's all made of silver. Hey , try it on . Hey, hey, when will you come back? If you don't come back, then I won't let you go. Haha, your sister won't come back . But I didn't promise you to come back. Why are you being unreasonable ? My father just died . It's really bad news. If you don't come back, wouldn't it be the second bad news? Oh my god, why is this more uncomfortable than the death of my own father ? Don't, don't, why don't you go first and wait for us to go to Chengde to find you after we finish the funeral? You should leave here after the funeral. The Japanese will definitely come again . What are you afraid of? This mountain is so big and there are so many holes. If we hide it casually, they won't be able to find it. Just leave it to Erhao . Let me tell you the truth. In fact, your father is not dead. I am your biological father . The third piece of bad news is hey. Master come on you can't tell me. to what you are you are sick of the same sociality shake you what you are what you want to know now my move cause you know what you want to show she go like she ain't no no what you want to do all night ginseng green Hahahahaha But who are you idiot and idiot ? Who are you? I can't even hear my voice? Wait a minute. Who sent you ? Why do you want to kill me? Tell me about Jinchuan. Jinchuan, are you okay? It 's okay. Jinchuan is okay. Something happened at my brother's house. On my sister's wedding day, Jinchuan, you must play a song for her. The Japanese came to the palace to congratulate me. They bloodbathed my sister's wedding. Our family was wiped out. When the firecrackers go off, your song must also play. I can hear it. My father, mother, grandfather and brother are all dead. What's wrong? It's impossible to go to Jinchuan. It's impossible to go to Jingchuan. Jingchuan, what's wrong with you? What's wrong? How could it be like this? Our family has been wiped out. There are 235 people who came to attend my sister's wedding and 21 people from our family. A total of 256 people were killed by the Japanese. Only my sister and I escaped . Go back and find them. Go back and save them. Go back and save them. Jinchuan Jinchuan friends, I want to go back . I want to go back to Jinchuan Jinchuan. Listen to me, Jinchuan. Chuan Jinchuan, you can't go back now . I'm going to save them. Listen to me. You can't go back now. It's useless for you to go back. Jinchuan. Sister Huo and my sister are still in the country. I have to go back to save you. Jinchuan. You have to calm down, Jinchuan Jinchuan. I must go back to save them, Jinchuan. It's useless for you to go back now. The Hong Kong police have restricted your exit. Then I will kill you. General. All eight gunmen were shot and wounded. They continued to resist. They swallowed their armor and committed suicide. Telegraphed this to the intelligence headquarters in Hong Kong. This person is very dangerous. Please be sure to intercept and kill this person and retreat to Hong Kong. Here you look at me to work. There are many people in Jingchuan. It seems that we are surrounded . Don't worry , they don't dare to do anything during the day. After something happened at home, I kept it hidden from Jinchuan and didn't dare to let him go . He knows that all our relatives are gone. I don't want him to encounter any danger again, but I didn't expect Er Xing to tell him secretly. He's still up so late. I'm writing poetry. I almost forgot that you love literature and write. The poem is so good. Our family was wiped out and you still have the heart to write poetry. We express pain in different ways. Do you also need to express your pain? To whom can you express it ? The tragic death of our family inspired your creation , didn't you use our misfortune ? Use it as material to win readers' admiration for you , right? Sister, listen to me and let me appreciate your pain. This is the poem you wrote. Didn't you tell him everything? I think he is the only man in our family and he should know. Yes, he is the only man in our family. You want the only man in our family to come back and die, right? You want the Xu family to die off, right? Why don't you listen to me ? As long as Jinchuan is alive, the Xu family will have hope now. Who will the Xu family point at you in the future? When we were young, my grandfather integrated the art of war into the game and taught us that what my sister and I are best at is attacking. What Second Hang is best at is escaping. As time went by, I also learned some escape skills from him. Your grandpa is such a good teacher. The dog crossed you and tore me apart. I can't let you go, Qianya, and I can't let you go either. You have to know that I really want to take you back, but there is a war in the Northeast. But it will be very dangerous for you to go back. When I leave, you go back to Lantau Island to hide . Will you come back? Yes, maybe I can come back in less than a month. When I come back, we will get married. Jinchuan, I will wait for your words. It's been a long time. It's a pity that my parents can't see all this. Brothers and sisters, Nicks , it's better to wait until your injury is healed before going. I have to pay off all the debts before Jinchuan comes back . No, it's curfew time at night, it's too dangerous, and Mochizuki Wuxue also said that he would rather kill a thousand by mistake than let one go . Mochizuki Wuxue was the one who killed Xiaohang . Xiaohang was only 7 years old. He killed him. He wouldn't even let a 7-year-old child go. The next one would be him. He must be killed. My heart is standing on the tip of my sword , sister , don't go , sister, I can't go any further, I'm entering their ambush circle in front of me, I have no intention of going forward, that's it. I originally didn't want to kill Peng Chao so quickly, I want him to Feel the fear of death. I want him to tremble like a mouse in front of a cat. But I can't hurt those innocent lives anymore . And I have to finish all these things before Jinchuan comes back. Shoot an arrow into the sky for me. Ascending line , Mingjun Jian Xu Yihang is here. Then he will look out the window to observe the situation and aim at the battalion commander . The battalion commander will blow the whistle to see Xu Yihang is coming. Battalion Commander, I don't know that the battalion commander and battalion commander Peng who rushed over must be in trouble soon. Go report to Colonel Wang Yuan, who is the battalion commander . Where did the battalion commander go ? Hey, battalion commander, you are here. Come on, come on. What do you mean ? I am dead. I was killed by you, not the battalion commander. Is there anyone inside the door we have been knocking for a long time ? We thought something happened to you? Is there any report of casualties? I haven't gone out to see if I am sister. Will he really look out the window? There is a proverb in the West. Curiosity kills the cat. Can curiosity really kill the cat? You ask. Mao Go . We have been hunting in the mountains with our grandfather since we were young. We are familiar with the psychology of various prey. At this time, Peng Chao is no different from ordinary prey in front of me. His psychology has been defeated and he will eventually die of stupidity. I only know that there is a Pandora in Greek mythology because of curiosity. It would harm the whole world. If my brother had only penetrated the fake sword, he could easily have shot through the three glass windows with one sword. But it would have been very difficult for Erhang and I to do it even if we were not injured. I need at least 3 swords to hit. The target, his sword, can shoot through that building. Hum, this is amazing, isn't it? The endurance ship is broken. Something happened to the battalion commander. Go and see the battalion commander. Quick, quick, quick . Walking down, Mochizuki Wuxue, the battalion commander , the battalion commander. Battalion Commander, please promise me and I won't go in. Battalion Commander , hey, hey, battalion, battalion, battalion commander, we thought something happened to you, right, right, right, I'm sorry, you are busy first , let's go out first, let's go, let's go, hey, hey, battalion commander. What are you doing standing there ? You're angry with me . I'm sorry. Aren't I worried about you? As long as you're fine, you can punish me in any way . Or you can lock me up for a day tomorrow. Do you think this is okay ? Battalion Commander. Battalion Commander . Battalion Commander. The next one is I hum . The next one is my colonel. Let's go to Rong Shi for help. You 're not acting like a soldier. Then how do you want to behave ? Go to Taruo Army Headquarters. Hey, no, no, no, no. Xu Yihang's road department will kill people and not leave. Colonel, you must not go and grunt at this moment. Just stay away. We were waiting for him to take the bait. Now that he has taken the bait, we are actually afraid. The position where he shot Peng Chao is right here. Warning, center left, why didn't he shoot me? I really didn't expect that his sword could pass through a building and pass through three glass windows . The jet lag swelled and the fishing squadron immediately surrounded this place. Colonel, please don't go this time. After all, their next target is you, hahaha. Then I should go even more. I don't believe their power is that good. They can see it even when I'm sitting in the car. Do you think Mochizuki Wuxue will leave from here? At this point, you should know better than me. Sister Xiaohang has avenged you . You can no longer shoot arrows. Come on, you can help me shoot another arrow. I don't shoot people, I only shoot tires. They're all big in this business. Oh , please, look, I'm so fucked up that I need you to drink. Come on, hey , hey, hey, why are they shooting over there? They wanted to judge our position from the direction of the arrow tail , but they forgot that after the arrow was hit in the tire, it spun around several times and died. Many people were killed by the arrow. What should we do now ? Damn it. If you shoot another arrow and create sparks , ignite the gasoline on the ground, many people will be killed. Come on , ah, ah , ah , no matter how you kill Gang Lord, if you catch a wolf, the wolf will kneel on the ground and beg you for mercy. Will you still kill him? No , but if you fall into a pack of wolves and you beg them for mercy , can they spare you? No, this is the difference between humans and animals. These Japanese are worse than animals. Grandpa, I know you can rest assured. I will definitely do it. To avenge my brother, look what the whistle sword is . This is the sword used by Xu Yihang, Geng Zhu. When you see that no sword is shot out, the whistle sound comes from here. Grandpa Xu Yihang is very powerful , but he can't make a fool of himself, right? Although we cannot kill those Japanese devils and traitors with our own hands But letting Xu Yihang use the sword we made to kill those Japanese devils is equivalent to avenging my brother. When grandpa did it with you, wow , it was so accurate. Hey, what's so great about him ? He just killed a few Japanese devils. It's not like I didn't. Come here and let me teach you how to hold it. I still don't dare to touch this thing . It's quite scary . What if it goes off ? Oh, sister Yixuan, how can it go off so easily? Don't worry, I'll prepare more bullets for you. If there are any more Japanese who come to bully you. Just kill them . Hey, sister Yixuan, why are you in such a hurry? You haven't loaded the bullet yet . Hey, what's wrong with you? It's so powerful. It 's so powerful . Who is Xu Yihang? Ten minutes before we saw him, he just killed Peng Chao and Less than ten minutes after he broke up, he showed Wang Yuan Wuxue to the truth again. I 'm telling you, he must have delayed us in his affairs , that's why he was so cruel to us . In 20 minutes, he actually killed a puppet battalion commander . Is it amazing to have a Kwantung Army garrisoned in Chengde, the highest commander ? It's amazing. more you can't hold the clock you don't know how cold the moral so disco so don't hook a color. How can we solve it ourselves? I want to go back to Chengde. The little ghost Erhao is my sister. His arrow missed the target and the whistle sounded weak. The range was less than 50 meters. He must have been unable to hold on. The sea anemone slipped away. That arrow was not shot by my sister. The archer is not familiar with bows and arrows. I was very nervous and my hands were still shaking when I was shooting. I couldn't tell. Mod's left-eyed horse, Duck must not let him get out of bed again in a short time. Thank you , but they must know that you killed the Japanese product. What should you do? I have a solution. There is no way for you to do this to the Japanese. This is not something you can do alone. I advise you to leave as soon as possible. Sister Chengde will not agree. In fact, these days, I spend every day in fear. I am afraid that if something goes wrong, he will grow up. Growing up, I have lived under the protection of my grandparents, father, brother and sister. I never thought that one day I would be unable to sleep because of fear. I don't know where is safe. In fact , when a country is not safe, everyone is unsafe. Please try to persuade him again. Think about it and tell me. I will arrange for you to go on an expedition . My sister gave this to you. My sister saw this and missed her brother-in-law again. My brother-in-law also has a cafe in his house. He makes good coffee. My sister loves to drink the coffee he makes. Dick dick , ah, Suo Jie should have spoken out earlier, so he would have been spared the punishment . I really didn't see when they left . Did you see them in the house or not ? The young master said they were in the house and asked me to stare at them. I really didn't. I saw them coming out. You have said these few words a hundred times. Huh, there are only so many times. It is only eight times. So no matter how many times you say it, I want to hear you tell the truth . I am telling the truth. Forget it, you are tired. Come here, I'll tell you the truth . Just keep it close to me. I don't want others to hear it. Ah , Mr. Zhou, Mr. Zhou, Mr. Zhou, Mr. Zhou, Mr. Zhou, Mr. Zhou, hey, Mr. Zhou, hey, Mr. Zhou, calm down, calm down, calm down , Mr. Zhou. I can't kill anyone . I can't kill anyone. Hit me to death. Lieutenant Commander. Thank you for your ears. President Rong is a municipal instructor. Can you explain it? He comforts his parents' spirits in heaven. Lu Liangbiao, I'm here . Get out of the way of the Great Wall. Emergency military information is rushing to you . How does President Rong feel about taking away Erhao and Erhao? Don't say a word. They will kill him. He is finally here. I thought he was not coming. President Rong drank too much tea and went to the toilet. Guns and ammunition can be transported from Fengtian. We must rely on Chairman Rong to organize a team of at least 3,000 people. You and I will work together internally and externally to capture the city demon. Then we will re-equip and fight to the Great Wall. We will engage in a frontal attack with the frontal troops of the national army and eat these Japanese. I can help the devil to get rid of him. He is really patient. Don't kill my sister. Did you kill me? I haven't handed it over to them yet and I don't know how to torture you . Give you a good time. Ah, ah, sir, please put on the accelerator and take me away. Don't worry about us. I don't know what happened to this arrogant Lu Liangbiao. It should be the general who committed the crime at the city gate. Just in case , please hand it over to the ambush. Send someone to see and cry. Make me happy. They are fake. Hurry up and beat me. Beat me. There are a few people left to guard the city gate on the full battlefield. It's my sister . Sister Xu , Miss Xu , are you okay ? I'm sorry, Miss Xu. I don't dare to come out. Isn't that child a boy from the blacksmith shop? Miss Xu, that's right, he is, hurry up and lift him up. Who are those people? We must not let them run away . I will take people down immediately to surround the man pulling the rickshaw. They are the eldest lady and the second young master of the Rong family. Hurry up and report to Captain Du. Yes , yes, yes , yes, come and take it. Gun, hurry up and block the Japanese soldiers on the left . Go to the bank and retreat from the back. OK, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, we will send two more squadrons to one of them to guard the gate of the city. We must not let them escape from the city. Hey, let's go. Tao Ri Army Headquarters Call two more battalions and make sure to eliminate him. I'm sorry, General. Please let me come here to pick you up, Mr. Suo. What's going on? The eldest lady, the second young master, rescued Xu Yihang. He was on his way to the hospital, but he spotted him. Turn around and go too. If you kill him, then follow closely. If you can't hold it back, you have to beat Xiaomao . Sister, look at my letter and you haven't got Hassama to beat me. Brothers, beat him hard to avenge Heding. Oh , let me. Shoot him again and grab his gun. Hey, let's go . My gun is about to fall. Da Qiang. Big Qiang. Small boy , heal him quickly. Captain, heal him quickly. I can't heal him. Go to the hospital and have an operation. Carry him away. Hurry up. They're keeping an eye on him. Miss, who are you? Who sent you here ? We are Du Duyin's people. What is your mission? I was ordered to keep an eye on Xu Yihang's accomplices. Once discovered, they reported immediately and caught up with a pair of Japanese soldiers. They followed orders. Miss Xu, Miss Xu, are you okay? Sister Xu, Miss Xu, Miss Xu , Miss Xu , Miss Xu, they are chasing me, hurry up , carry them over , hurry, Sister Xu, keep an eye on them, run fast, the firepower is too strong , I can't stand it, I can't run, the bullets. It's too close. 2 Flights! Brother, please help my sister. Sister, please take a moment . Come on, hurry up . Don't hit me. Miss, retreat. Come on, get down , hurry up. You guys go first. What are you doing here? You have too few swords . Is the sword I have here enough? Okay, hurry up and go home. This has nothing to do with you. Come on, Mr. Suo, please go back first. There are many things waiting for you to arrange. Okay, young lady, be careful . Rong's family must not expose the scallop meat. Young master, don't let us go. It's Zhang He who came to save the eldest lady. They are the Anti-Japanese Volunteers. Oh, it's really the eldest young master. I knew it was the eldest young master's fake sword as soon as I heard the voice. You are Master Xu, we are all from Heling. It's better if you come back and don't say that. How is Miss Rong's condition now? Xu Yihang was seriously injured. Our people sent him to the hospital. I don't know if he has arrived at the hospital now. The hospital is not safe. The Japanese will definitely raid the whole process. The hospital is the most dangerous. We have to mess up Chengde. Let them have no time to worry about how to mess up Chengde. First, they took off two sets of Japanese military uniforms and gave them to Miss Rong and Master Xu.