In World Cup route setting, there is always a limited amount of time and a lot of boulders to create. I've always thought that we didn't really have time to see things through to the end, to push concepts 100%, especially if we want to develop new movements. So I thought it would be interesting to create a situation with some setters and very few boulders to set and try to push concepts a little more than we do in competitions. When I first heard about this experiment, I mean I liked the idea right away, but I was really excited to work with really good route setters. When I saw these cool boulders, I was already excited to try. I was super curious how it works. Everyone used this playground as a kind of laboratory. And having two of the best climbers on the planet with us was just what we needed to do something different. The ideas that I set on this wall are old ideas that we've tried in competitions in recent years. I revisited them and tried to push a bit further to make them work. So the first boulder was probably something that we already saw happening at the World Cup in Meiringen. It was one move that probably the route setters wanted to achieve but nobody really tried or thought about this idea. The first idea was a body twist. You're facing the wall and you turn around to the outside and bridge your legs. My first thought was that it wouldn't work on such a big overhang. It must be 25-30 degrees. But we managed to break the angle of the wall a little with large volumes. We started by working on the end position so that it would be stable and comfortable enough. And then we started with the feet by standing on it and trying to turn, or feeling how to turn. We spent a lot of time on that. The movement is tricky because it's not natural to turn in this direction. We tried to do a jump onto the blob, or do it in a hurry rather than standing up and turning. It took us quite a long time to find the right foot hold until Pierre came along with his little white construction. It was really good. And the foot hold is pretty big. Wow that's amazing But how are you going to get into this position? Haaaa. That's tomorrow's challenge. Come on, get back into position, Manuel. On top of this movement, we added another idea from Meiringen two years ago Manu set a boulder where you started facing the audience and you jumped with one arm to a small crimp. It worked facing the wall that time, but we tried to push the concept a bit more. It allowed us to play with two ideas that we had to navigate between. We gave the athletes zero information. We just told them to start with one of the boulders together. We let them do it and we watched what happened And little by little we gave them solutions and ideas on certain movements. For the first one, I think Janja tried it first. So on my first go I tried the option that I had already tried in the World Cup. This option was to go forward with the right arm, actually down to the foothold. This time it didn't work out here, so the second option was pretty obvious, to turn. I just told Janja that we need to twist our knees to make the first move and I tried it, I didn't manage it, but Janja managed it in like 2 or 3 attempts and I was like &quot; wow! &quot; And then we just started to try the high up part. We had a lot of different options to try we tried to turn first, but it was just so difficult, you had to be very flexible, but I'm not flexible so I had to try something different. I found that I could turn, then continued to jump in one movement. It was interesting to climb together on the first boulder with Yoshiyuki because he's super strong, so there was like one point where I could give him advice and not the opposite! I think it's really interesting to bring athletes and setters together. When you set only competitions you don't have this room to really go deep into exploring. Of course, I was very interested in this project. But I wasn't sure how it would be done. However, it was great that route setters could experiment. And really focus on creating new movements. The evening before when I discussed our ideas, somehow with Gen we had a similar idea It was really funny, because he explained his idea and when I showed my sketch, it was kind of similar so that's why we decided to work together on this idea. When I arrived in Switzerland and talked to everybody, we realized that Katja's idea and mine were very close. So we decided to mix my favorite style and Katja's idea. It's a jump onto a macro before making another movement. You jump onto the first macro, use the intermediate hold, and push vertically. We created a movement that stops vertically, like a human flag. The idea was to go to the blue shoulder press and to throw again to the next hold. But we were already at the end of the movement so it was easier to just stop on the press. So we had a second option, which was to remove the hold and stop directly on the one above. We tried to make this movement like the only possibility, so you are not able to cheat, but whenever we were close to achieving this, we opened the door to other options and it was hard to adjust to make this movement necessary. The idea, the beta behind it is really cool. Honestly I thought I had to do a push move but I was sure there was an easier way, so I tried a heel hook and just topped it. I saw a cheating beta to kind of skip this jump/shoulder move and just try to cheat with a heel hook on the bottom part but it was not possible. The routesetters just came to us and they said we need to skip the blue hold between the big volumes, so now there is no choice but to do big coordination moves. I had two choices: the first one was just running across the first two volumes and trying to catch the big undercling, but it didn't work for me. I switched to the second beta. You have to push the first big volume with one hand or two hands and push between these two volumes. It didn't work but I felt it was possible to do it and I just continued to try these push moves and I just managed it. I immediately saw that the way that Yoshiyuki topped the boulder was probably a bit too hard or not possible for me because of arm span, then for me the routesetters had to change one hold then I could stop the movement. When we make adjustments to competition boulders, they are so small, but at the same time they can also change the result so much. By turning the holds just a few degrees it can go from a round that's way too easy to a round that's way too hard When I set my first World Cup, Manu was there and he always inspired me in terms of movements, When I set my first World Cup, Manu was there and he always inspired me in terms of movements, because he brought something new to dynamic climbing. So I came to Meiringen with this idea of a coordination movement, but where you start footless. It's an idea that we have already worked on so today we're taking this opportunity to refine it until we have a boulder that works well and is easier to execute. This concept of &quot;no foot&quot; has been around for a while. It's been done and tried a lot, and here we just tried to push it further, to do more dynamic movements in a row. We made a combination move. A &quot;no foot&quot; idea where we take the first hold and use the swing in a kind of hula hoop movement. And we combined it with an idea from Manu, which is to stab your foot while throwing again with your arm. We came up with a version that almost worked and the purpose of having the two athletes was for me to test different solutions. We realised that the idea was not working. After Ogata and Janja's first try, they were able to stop on the first hold. And then we tried to make the idea work. The route setters came to try and fix it a little bit and I also tried to help. In the end, the first version didn't work at all. So we told them to stop climbing and we changed the boulder. At Flathold they shaped some sort of large dual-tex plates. This was the option we chose so that we could force them to put their feet only on the right side of the volume. And try to 'paddle' one, two, three... four times. Usually this is one of my favourite styles, like campus but coordination. You have to do 3 or 4 moves in the moment. It was hard, it was hard to set the move that the setters wanted to see. It didn't work but I felt that it's a possibility, it was so close. In some tries I had the impression that I was really close because I really felt the swing, the movement, actually everything but then somehow it just didn't happen. I would say that it's just a matter of time when it would work. It's an experiment and it won't happen overnight. It's just a process, but I'm certain that at some point it will work out. I think if you really want to push concepts, it's good to have very strong climbers climbing on them. I think route setting changed a lot over the years and it's still changing There's never a year that I think route setting would stay the same. Every year they go in one direction or another, but it's really hard to think in which direction route setting will go in the next years. Route setters make us better and we make route setting better, so in working together with the athletes before a competition, we can together improve competitions a lot.