English looks like this. But it used to look like this. These ancient letters are called runes and I think Allow me to explain in another RobWords. Okay, so runes are the alphabet that was before we started using the alphabet we use now. The alphabet of the Romans. An alphabet that is utterly inadequate, lacking while having multiple letters for others. It is an alphabet meant for Whereas this set of characters to efficiently represent the or more accurately: Old English as it was I think they could be used for Now before you dismiss this as just schemes, just hang on a moment because I'm in good company This is a beautiful copy of The Hobbit - the His fascination with Old English Old Norse, is interwoven throughout this not just in the names of people in the illustrations drawn by the man himself. They are littered with runes. Look at the ones on this map. This is the written form of dwarvish but And they don't spell out some mystical This... This is Modern English. "Stand by the grey stone when the with the last light of Durin's So it can be done, Runes word Tolkein proved it. But before we decide if runic there is a whole lot we need to understand first about how they were used in the past and But let's start with where runes came To do that, we have to go in time to even before the age of the Vikings, although we will get round to them, I promise. The oldest surviving runes date they're concentrated around southern Scandinavia. So that is runologists' best guess at where be that more of the runic inscriptions because of a tradition in the Bogs are a great way of preserving objects The style of rune from back then is the This is the runic alphabet used the 7th century and it's known as In much the way our word "alphabet" comes from the Greek names of the first two letters the futhark is named for the sounds made And the rest of these 24 runes You know, one thing I find amazing Roman alphabet equivalents is Look at the B letters and the There are too many of these and that's because it isn't coincidental. The fact that this alphabet from symbols in common with writing systems is a reminder of how much more connected the world was two thousand years ago than Or at least than I think of it being, anyway. These alphabets were in sufficient contact Of course, the runes look like funky, equivalents because the Elder Futhark is Why is that? Well the answer is simple: because it makes these characters easy to carve, because that's really the only The Scandinavians of this Epic story tellers, sure, but not fans of But what they did do was inscribe scrape or bash these symbols into objects made of wood, metal or stone, like this incredible will and testament" that just blew my mind It's from around 400AD. These runes were also used to mark ownership On this replica of a 5th century drinking horn &quot;I Hlewagastiz, son of Holt, made the horn.&quot; ...or something along those lines. It's written Runes are also used to label things. Combs have been found that just say "comb" on them and they're used to decorate weaponry called a bacteate that just has I love it. I want it. [In cringe Gollum voice] I want it. [In normal voice] And then I although I'm not going to dwell on it because of evidence of runes being used for mystical It is a primarily writing system. However, the Roman historian Tacitus, who wrote wrote in the first century AD about a curious he said, villagers would "break off the branch mark these by certain signs and throw them, as "Then a state priest prays to the gods three separate strips and reads their It's thought those fortune-telling Now, one of the motivations behind because without a doubt, particularly over They've been adopted by far right groups all based upon ridiculous, manufactured And I'm going to get into all of You may have seen that just recently a far Germany for the first time since But your understanding of why been influenced by the specific However, with Ground News, On that story alone, it's pulled together and across the political spectrum, For example, you can see some left-leaning members of Germany's governing saying "citizens have had enough". Whereas outlets on the left stress what calling it "a punch to the country". Now, I've worked with Ground News for about a year Plus I find their interest pages, like the ones make it really easy to stay on top It can do the same for you. Use my special to get 40% off unlimited access like me Thanks to Ground News for sponsoring this video. So, so far we've just looked at a later incarnation of this runic alphabet that from an English speaker's perspective From the seventh century onwards, in Britain A tweaked and extended version of the Elder of the Anglo-Saxons who'd been living there That language was what we now call Old Like the Elder futhARK the futhORC was But in this adapted version of the The Germanic dialects in Britain - where the futhorc was also used - English has always been a pain in the arse. So, for example, to take weird vowel system two new vowel runes were added. Anyway, it's this Anglo-Frisian futhorc, these and that I think we could use today. Okay, so how is this better than what Number 1: it has this guy, a single letter representing what This rune is called thorn and I have because it actually survived the and continued to be used in English Indeed, it's still used in the Icelandic me endless geeky excitement English - like Icelandic - needs this letter, And that's why I am "HARDCORE THORN". Reason number two why this alphabet It makes the "W" sound without resorting which is literally using a double U or double V. This one also survived into middle English until the printing press killed it That is why I am also "FOR THE WYNN". Reason number three why the futhorc is better which represents the "ng" sound, something But when writiNG we're usiNG those Why not save space with just one letter? Reason number four is that the much better equipped to represent than the pathetic 6 that we're And number five: the futhorconly has one which let's face it is ridiculous. Honestly, I could go on. For example, a further delightful aspect of the and that name isn't just a noise it's a full word with a meaning. as I already mentioned, but Like feoh, which means wealth And also this one that's called "gift". And not only do these names but they also tell you how to pronounce them. They all start with the All except for two, which are sounds that We know about these names because of or in the case of this one, give a series of So the names are charming, it has a better But does the futhorc work? Are these runes It's a fair question because them being used for the odd carving here or there. But elsewhere - and during the same time broadly and until as recently as For more on that, let's cross to the Nordics [Holiday Rob:] Thanks future me. We should talk because it was much more extensive than it Where in England it was mainly used craftsmanship or for a dedication, Scandinavian inscriptions could cover a whole range of other purposes too. We partially know this because of an amazing actually in Bergen, though, A fire ripped through the but though it was a disaster it led to the most 670 pieces of wood carved with runes, which are the later, simplified versions of the It's actually the versions And these hundreds of objects just how day-to-day the use of runes could be. There's a massive online database of in Scandinavia and you can find all the And they include simple little there's ones that just say "ave Maria" on them. There are declarations of love, and there's which is an apparent scolding of someone It was found in the ruins of a tavern and Now that's funny enough, someone being told to there is an accompanying inscription that is completely incomprehensible. It's thought that it's probably the reply It would appear that they were so far gone So though it doesn't seem like runes were there is a precedent for them being the daily Interesting. Back to you, future Rob. [Future Rob] So there we have it... [Future Rob] So there we have it: runes can be used as a day-to-day means Other than the enormous faff of text with a runic equivalent and Well, it's perhaps that thing I mentioned earlier: the way in which runes have been misused, and Most notably the Nazis, who used them in their iconography and I want to talk about this - and the extremists - because the more light you and the more you realise fascists a heritage that people from all The Nazi fascination with runes is born out movement in 19th century Germany and Austria based Volkisch activity could be as benign as, you know, going on a hike with friends who share but there were also more extreme being descended from an ancient, A race that supposedly possessed And then in 1908 a superstitiously-minded published a book called Das Geheimnis In it he set out his belief that runes But not just any runes: the runes of an had been revealed specifically and only to List's spurious Futharkh looked most like but with names for the runes that His writing popularised the idea that charged with wisdom in their shapes, And it is this superstitious belief For example, their use in the logo the SS. Those are two S runes, if you like, and they've been used, not just the Schutzstaffel, but because the superstitious man who believed in He believed what List had written about that rune being an historic symbol for Its Anglo-Saxon name Sigel bore no Sieg, as List and Himmler appear to have believed. Sigel meant Sun. And the names and meanings of other the Nazis and continue to be now by other groups. I'm not going to show any of the because I don't want to give them the time of day. But what I will do is show you futhark - the one he believed held the key the union of the human and the divine. A rune that doesn't appear in any This one. Simultaneously tainting not only runes but To talk about modern use of runes is to do a great disservice to other Religious groups like modern-day Pagans who place great symbolic meaning but aren't using that as an excuse I'm not in the best position to tell you precisely of places on the internet and on this very Oh and also, you probably see a rune The bluetooth symbol is a combined rune made up of the symbols for H and B to give a Viking king famed for bringing He knew how to establish a good connection. But anyway, what I've been focusing on I've read have said was the primary use of A system that I think we Still not convinced? I'll leave Latin alphabet to Runic alphabet converter below. Have a play around with them. But if I've already won you over, why not They're available at robwords.com/shop While you're down there, make sure you take and then watch this video next. I'll catch you in the next thing. Take care.