What's up, family? This is Ajit Nawalkha. And in today's episode, we and run a group coaching program online. A lot of you have been asking where you have been saying, hey, I run a one-on-one coaching practice. It's going great. It's awesome. And now I want to work with groups. Or hey, I just started and while one-on-one sounds exciting, I would really love to run And so in this video, I'm gonna share with you how to build one and how to run one so you can start building and running group coaching programs. But before we even get as to how to build and run there's a very important as you're starting to design The question is who are you The reason why this question if you don't answer the question and what is the result that they desire, you may end up creating that will leave a lot of And that's the last thing you is unsatisfied clients. You want your clients to to work with you, so they're not only enjoying but also your future programs. They get the great They enroll with you in one-on-one, they attend your seminars and events. And your practice keeps thriving because you have amazingly So before we get into answering how to build a group coaching I invite you to ask yourself serving and what are the So let's get to the core of it. How do we build a group coaching program? Well, there are three different or the way to deliver coaching programs that you want to consider. The first kind of group potentially build is outcome-based This is where you are by the end of the program. Let's take an example. Let's say you are a health in working with people who Let's get a little bit more in their forties and fifties You can create a program and coach them in a group that helps them redesign their diet, their workout schedules, their that will help them lose that weight. To expand on the example, it may be that you have that lasts 12 to 16 weeks who are in their forties and work with you, week after a week where you look at their diet You're evaluating it. You're correcting it, checking on it. You're suggesting what workout 10X is highly recommended, but whatever workout whatever diet plans they should follow. And you're working them week after week to get to that particular outcome. So these individuals know They signed up for losing to work with you for 14 to 16 weeks or 12 to 16 weeks for This means you have an outcome-oriented group coaching program because what they would be once the program is over. This kind of group coaching especially when the outcomes like in a business coaching program, in any specific life any relationship program, any weight or health-related program, because the outcomes You can say, hey, when we'll fill in the evaluation, or we would have some kind as to where we are in our journey. And then in week 4, Week 8, we'll evaluate it again. Week 12, we'll evaluate it again. Week 16, we'll evaluate it again. So there is a clear path to an outcome. This also means that in the program, you're not necessarily You will probably be training first. You'll be saying, hey, here's or here's what I want you to do. Here's the reason for why and now let's talk. So it's more of a than a pure coaching program. The second kind of group where, if you're an authority, if you're somebody who has written a book, you've created programs, you create a group coaching program that relies on questions and answers. This basically means that if in helping people or a coach their message or rediscover we are going to work together where I'll be taking any your message, and I'll be You use those questions and those answers as coaching moments during the course of those 8, 12, 16, 18 weeks, depending on how long you want your group coaching program to be. But the format itself is easier to run. And that's why I call group coaching format, and people are excited to enroll only when you're already seen as an authority. These are individuals who go, I trust Ajit to really know everything about coaching. And because I trust him, if he says that he's over the course of the next 12 weeks, I'm interested in joining that program. I trust person X. I trust person Y. Whatever is the authority, and whatever's the domain of expertise that they have established themselves in or domain of expertise they could lead by simply saying, I'm gonna do Q&amp;As, the community questions are as to what is the coaching who needs to be coached, how the questions need to be answered, so all of the clients, all of the coachees can benefit from that Now this is the easiest format to run because you are an expert You can run it online and you and prepare maybe for 10 minutes to get real present for the Q&amp;A. And then you're there, based on what shows up. It's the easiest format to run, but probably one of the most because with no clear outcome defined or no particular structure to follow, it is hard for people to say, yes. It's hard for people to say, well, yes, that is the Most of the people are saying yes, because they trust your authority. They trust your capability. So be careful as you in your group coaching practice. And the last, and probably the most commonly is what I call laser coaching format. Laser coaching format to show up to a call and and put themselves on the hot seat. And as they sit on the hot and relate to whatever's in this scenario between and relay it to your grander audience. The coach uses the example of the coachee to make a point to the entire audience. And the entire audience is experiencing the self-coaching moment by relating to what's happening on stage or happening on the online stage as the in the online format. Here's how it may look like. You may decide to work for say a year in a group coaching format. Every week or every other the coach may say, hey, laser at this place, at this time. You show up for the If you have something to bring up, you bring it up to the coach, the coach invites you to the virtual stage and starts coaching you to relate a grander point for other clients that are in the room. This may also mean that in the audience and the There's nobody gonna theme except what is the that is in the group and the addresses and the way they The most common version is this one, the laser coaching format. The most easy format to enroll clients in is the first format that is what I called the outcome-led coaching and the most complicated to enroll but when you get to a stage, is authority based coaching, authority-led coaching. This is where you are an authority. People want to come into the room just because they know is going to be an amazing experience. And they are just bought into the idea of having that experience with you. Now, before we get into how to run a group coaching format I invite you to identify which are the most exciting for you. And it'll be interesting to see in the comments section below which one was the one that and you would like to explore more. I would love to hear more So go to the comment section which of the group coaching format is the most exciting one for you. And while you're at it, if you're enjoying this video, don't forget to hit that like button. Every time you hit that like button, more and more people who are get to see this video. If for whatever reason, you're not subscribed to this channel, it's about time. It's about time, buddy. Hit that red subscribe button so you can get a notification we post a new video we make a tremendous effort and bring amazing trainings for you in a short and concise format So you will definitely every time we're about to drop a video. So go ahead hit that red subscribe button. And also if there's a friend, colleague or a partner of yours wanting is completely unsure. Remember to share this video with them. It will be helpful, right? Now, let's get to how to There are certain principles, when you're running an online The first key to success is your energy. If you are not energized, if you don't feel completely amazed by the experience of that that you're running, if you are not bringing the kind of energy that you promise in your being to the group coaching setting, it will be unlikely that your group is going to bring that We are mirrors. If you are energetically creating this group coaching the people in that to be a part of it. So take a minute to realign your energy before you start your before everybody comes in online, take 10 minutes for yourself, so you can remind yourself why you're excited about that program, how you're going to that one can expect and hope for from a group coaching When you lean into your when you lean into your ability to love deeply your audience, you will find your energy level rise, and you will find yourself, feel more aligned to The second key element, and that's really important doing that is to manage You see, your group is They're gonna engage with and there will be certain that may be having a hard time in life. They may be having an experience in life that is not comfortable. And so they may bring the They may bring the energy of lack. They may bring the energy And while it is completely fair well, that's why they joined the group, it is also your that the entire group's by the experience of one person. All humans are social animals. We want to connect. We want to be together. We believe in each other. And because of that, if that is not cohesive and it will still infect the group. And so as the leader of the group, as the coach of the group, your job is to manage this energy. You don't have to ignore the person that is having a hard time. That's not what I mean when I say this. What you have to do is to to have a private conversation if required so the group is not impacted always elevated to be able that you have designed for them and you're working with them for them to create in their lives. The third key to success of a group coaching program We live in a very uncertain when your energy fluctuates or your group's energy fluctuates, or group's timing fluctuates, when the group doesn't in the next session or the next they start to feel that this Your clients are coming to They are looking for around an experience or around So that certainty is taken away. If there is inconsistency that the person is having, it's creating all uncertainty they feel disengaged from the group. So as the leader, as you have to drive certainty in the group. Make sure that your sessions are preset. They happen at a particular and they are almost with an experience that For example, how does the session start? Does it start with gratitude? Does it start with breathing? Does it start with just What happens next? Then what happens next? Then what happens next? There's a certain amount even when the content is changing, because it depends on what the group is bringing to the table, the container is same. And so the people, your clients can expect a certain level and their experience of The fourth key to running is adaptability. I can say without even the first enrollment of that your clients are and they will have different needs than what you initially expected, that you will have to adapt are getting the outcome You see, our clients want the outcome that they want to get as an in this group coaching program, they don't necessarily The process is there simply but the outcome is what So when you're working with and you're seeing that your the outcomes at the pace that you want to, be open to adapt yourself to the need of the outcome of the client. Because if you don't adapt, they will end with the all right, great, we ran the process, but I didn't get what I signed up for. And you don't want that. You don't want your clients to feel that they didn't get the You want to create a program and that's the key to is create results for your clients and they will be excited to work with you more and more and more. So I invite you to be adaptable, what your clients are to create a better for better outcomes for your That brings me to the fifth element that you want to introduce in and that is accountability. When people are not held accountable for the experience they are having, when they don't have cross or accountability with you as a coach, they tend to come into They tend to come into the They tend to listen and but they don't take action and never experience the transformation. Guess what happens when the transformation? At the end of the program, they go, what did I gain? Why did I join this program? I have not had any transformation. Accountability is not Accountability is there so they can keep a check that they are committing and that they've created for themselves. We all can use a little help from a colleague sometimes of what our true possibility, We are all stronger, braver, But sometimes we forget that. And that is what accountability is for. Don't confuse it with saying, oh, accountability, reprimands people, and it's not college or school. You're talking about real life. This is there so you can be the supporter. Their peers can be the supporter for them to continue making progress they're already committed to. That brings me to the sixth to run a really successful and it's of paramount importance, and that's called results. All else fails if you're for your clients, and that's just the truth of it. There is no way around anything, no way to create a great or greatly recommended if at the end of the I didn't really have any results. I mean, it was great to be I didn't really do anything. I didn't really get anything. If that happens to be the end, then unfortunately you created that may run once, but may not run again and may not have the outcomes again, may not have the excitement again. And so results are the key, they're the bedrock of creating So always keep your eye, to what is this creating signed up for? Is it creating the results that they wanted to have in their lives? Because at the end of it, your clients might come I had a great experience, but I didn't really get the And that wouldn't feel good, would it? Now this is the one that you and most coaches miss it for that matter in any and that is to capture the experience. Capture the experience of your student. Capture the experience of your coachee. You see, I have been in this be better coaches for about six years. Very few people can boast in six years. I have over 1,000 who have taken my programs And most of my coaching experiences are widely, widely recommended. And that is because I to capture the experience of my clients. I make a conscious effort about, say, this video. I make it a point that I I make it a point, if to read it so I can capture the but for other people. When you don't capture the there are two things that Firstly, the person who had the experience will forget about that experience because they never wrote it down. They never communicated it. So in the mind, they go, and if you ask them three months later, they remember bits of it, but they won't remember So first loss you have is the doesn't remember it anymore. How sad is that? And secondly, is your own personal growth from that experience. When you hear your client's you grow as an individual. You may grow because you go, oh, this was not a very good experience. What can I do to change, right? Or you may grow by saying, wow, What is there to learn because this was such a great You get to grow and learn every an experience about their So make it a point to capture experience. If you wouldn't capture it, you will do a disservice to your clients and you will do a disservice to yourself. So those were some key as you build and run your So those are some of the building and running your I am so excited to see you program outside in the world and impact so many more lives. Let me know which part of for you in the comment section below. I'd love to read it. Again, if you liked this video, go ahead, hit that like button. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, hit that red subscribe button. If there's somebody that you know, that can use this video, Thank you so much for watching. This is Ajit Nawalkha and you are watching this on Evercoach.