Citizens of Rome, gather round! Welcome to Gordian. Now, Gordian And the oracle one day prophesied... ...whosoever shall untie the knot Many people came from far and wide until one day the Alexander, descended from Advance! Apollo enlightened Alexander... ...and showed him how Sulla has returned to Rome He declares that the innocent But that those guilty ...shall be most severely punished! The men whose names are written They have no rights ...they may be killed on sight! Anyone who takes it upon himself ...will be considered ...and shall be rewarded ...and possessions It's the greatest crime of Roman law. Rome, 82 BC - Mother? Mother? - Where's my wife? - Grandmother, the soldiers are coming. Sulla has taken the city He's made lists. Hundreds - Are you? Julia stay in the house! Don't go! Father, where are you going? To get your mother! He's not on the list! - He's the one you want to, over there! - Have you heard? What's the point running away, - Please go. - ...you must leave now. Hurry! Go! Please, father. Go, hurry! Go! Please, Cornelia, run! He helped Cinna to escape! Give me your name. It's Caesar, Arrest him. No, no! Please, no! No! No! No! Please, please, no! No, please, please, no! No, please, no! It's in any ruler's interest And the people ...if they have Since when did the Senate Cato, why is your mouth You have nothing to fear. Sir, if I were on your list ...I would gladly die. Well, when you say that, So, I repeat: When did the Senate I want the man with ...to answer me. You? You? So it's me. I will answer you. You are all aristocrats. Your feet have never touched the ground, How can you possibly... ...represent the people whom We represent the people - If they think you want to be king... You said... king? What would the name &quot;King&quot; buy me Yeah, if the people know the Senate Oh, yes, oh, yes. Oh, they will. That is my... fondest wish. So, I would not be a true Republican... if I did not introduce a... A... earthier element... ...among your ranks Gentlemen? You will continue to advise me ...what is best ...my men will remain here... ...just to make sure that - ...aren't a problem. ...is this not counter to Roman law? I have just changed... Roman law. I understand, sir. But will something of What Tallis means is, ...anyone whom you've Only that it might have a calming effect ...whom you intend to spare. Oh, come, come Cato. You know how alliances change Well, then, perhaps you can tell us Well, let's... ...begin with you. I was only asking... ...what everyone was thinking. Well, I can't possibly kill everyone. So, I will kill only you. I may be true at that. I will let you know after dinner, but for your sake... ...you better hope - Are you Julius Caesar? This way. This way. I want to see Sulla! Please! No! I want to see Sulla! I've been a member of the Senate I want to see Sulla! That is not... negotiable. Who is he? Julius Caesar. Nephew to Marius? You have unfortunate ancestry. If you think it's unfortunate Oh, which god was that? The Julians are descendent The son of Venus, I recall Marius making such claim. There are many people these days We have a crest which proves it. I believe you can have them ...a couple of dinars. Why did you ask to see me? Your mother... Did she... ask you to spare my life, Well, I promised that And I'm supposed No. - She is. We are old friends. Oh, yes, true. True, true. Old friends in the day What do you want Why do you think I want And like you don't give I'm not a man without compassion. First you must understand Cinna was my greatest enemy, Did he? Of course not. He did escape my soldiers only - My wife? I leave women to the health. And since you are only the son I intend to leave you to yours. If? If you divorce... your wife. Well? - No. I refuse! ...even though it may My wife is my teacher. She's cleverer than I am, she's a more compelling argument ...or your office is. I won't divorce her. - That is my answer. ...what do we do I don't know weather to... I think we should let him go. What? His uncle Marius He's got ten Mariuses inside him. You want to let him go? It's the ones who smile and flatter He speaks plainly. You do speak plainly, don't you? Always. Well, tell me... ...would you kill me if you could? In an instant. You can go. I said you are free to go. What a big heart that boy has. Bring it to me in the morning. Was this Sulla's plan? To slaughter me outside so I wouldn't foul - I came to warn you. Because if you don't leave Rome And? And I don't want to see men What do you know about me? You refused Sulla. I'll tell you more but now you must leave Rome. Your family will be safe, Go east to Bithynia. He'll keep you safe in his service. - How do I know I can trust you? I will not hand my fate So you'd let him kill you? He can try if he wants, Why must you be so stubborn! Pompey himself came to offer you help. He's Sulla's man, Don't you trust anyone at all? Yes. - I trust you. You're not the heaven and the earth. And some things When you were in jail... ...I thought you were dead. I started to grieve your death. I'm asking you How can I live with myself if I knew and I failed! - Is this pig for sale? - Ten dinars. It requires carving. Julius Caesar. We will feed it to my dogs. That's the coast of Crete. The ruler there ...and then hang them so high And if they broke the law Today the shores We need to anchor for the night. Where has father gone? The other side of the water. How long does it take Depends on the wind. Sometimes you can cross it in days. Sometimes if the air is still If you don't like the rope, sir It's the Roman way, isn't it? What kind of ransom do you get Two talents. But I'll pay three You'd get fifty for me alive. And who would collect it? They would. Hey! If your men... ...don't return before dawn... ...you die. Your time is up, Roman. I'll fight one of you That's another day. Nobody is coming back Throw him in the sea. Ship! Fifty talents. And the money just happened Sir, I never stole a coin from you. And I suppose it was the goldsmiths - Sir, they've been convicted for it. You share the profits You pay me well, I would never This is the magistrate's testament, Flavius had nothing to do with it. Are you trying to tell me that never put a piece into his pocket? He's been proven innocent. - Strangle him. He's been proven innocent. Well, I just... disapprove Sulla... ...he's a good man, Allow me to vouch for him You can vouch for him all you like, but protect him you can't. The penalty for theft is There seems to be My judgment? Pompey... ...you're becoming very critical. And you want to rise above me. Those men worship the rising sun That's how the saying goes isn't it? But I am not the setting sun, ...I expect you to ...to my wishes weather ...or not. Strangle him! No. You. You will strangle him. No. Did I hear... Ah, my dear general. I asked you to strangle Flavius And you will do it You will strangle Flavius... ...or you yourself Strangle him! Strangle him now! I will not have my orders disobeyed! I swear to... KINGDOM OF BITHYNIA ...by the prince of Egypt! Fit to serve a gentleman Ah, here, sir. This young girl, new from the North, will have special ways and young enough for you Oh, no. No, no, no, sir. This... hardly able to lift He'll disagree He's unfortunately skilled And what arts of the tongue In the arts of Euclid and Aristotle. The arts of verse. I can recite verse of Homer The arts of politics and the state. Logic, metaphysics, epistemology Sophistry? Now, doesn't that mean you know There's great power in ambiguity, sir, but not all men use advantages Are you experienced Yes. - I much prefer to teach in the old. Because they exhibit more wisdom. Father. Who are your friends? Portia and Marcus. Of course, Cato's children. That's our cousin. Brutus. - What you reading? - Aristotle? - How is he? - Hasn't changed a bit. Father, did you bring me Did I bring you back anything? Yes. I brought you this. Apollonius? This is my daughter Julia. Apollonius will be your teacher. Where's my wife? Caesar! - Don't get up. Let me get dressed. I'm well, I just stood up too fast. You don't have to get dressed. No, wait. Just... Cornelia. I never stopped waiting for you. I never stopped missing you. And now... Here. This is not supposed to happen. I'm back now, my love. Two years is just too long. &lt;i&gt;There are those of you and those of you who worked... ...against him. But not all who worked with him I therefore propose that the rights so that once again the people Yes! I propose a thorough ...and an unqualified as the principal body of government. - Yeah! Caesar! It's good to see you fresh Oh, he lets me win. I'm glad to see I hear you met with Yes. Fortunately your friend Nicomedes I never had a chance to thank you... ...for saving my life. You defied Sulla. He told you to divorce ...even though you knew That impressed me. And it... ...reminded me of something. You see my friend, Sulla once... told me And unlike you I obeyed him. I left the one woman I loved. Life is full of lessons. So, we taught each other Tell me how to get Don't tell me I was wrong See, I have something ...but I have no voice. If you want a voice in Rome, win the people, ...and when you make Pompey... ...I promise you ...just give me a sign, - Man. - Woman. Slave. From memory. Why do I have to learn Greek? Because that is the greatest culture - As in Rome? So is a Greek slave better I'm content to be what I am. You can draw your own But you'd rather be free? All men would rather be free. Because then you could do I can do what I want to do And some men who think they're free They're bound 'Cause if you're my slave - Julia. If you'd set him free, He could educate me Ah, yes, but then Sweet gods, come quick! Cornelia? Cornelia? Cornelia? Cornelia, wake up! Oh, please, stay with me! No! Cornelia! Please, my love! Oh, god. My name is Julius Caesar. I'm here to honor ...publicly and for the last time. She was a good woman. She gave no thought Only to the well being of others. Rome was her first and greatest love. We shared that love. We dreamt of a Rome Where sons never raise Where brothers never raise Where Romans lived at peace So I ask you now to join with me, in honoring not only but the memory of all ...who have died fighting People of Rome, I, Julius Caesar, make you this promise I will not rest till the Rome Join me! For I am not only the nephew who fought against the evils of Sulla but I'm also a son of the Julius, who was descended from I offer you my hand. A power supreme among mortal men, granted by the gods, Let us work together comrades, in our quest for an empire, united... ...and free! We shall have to watch him. Or use him. Good morning to you, Caesar. - Good morning. Hail, Caesar! Hail, Caesar! Greetings, Caesar! Hail, Caesar! Greetings, Caesar. Now, then... Ah, here! And I hope it will make you smile. That's the first Stop it all of you! There is nothing he can do about it! What happened? The price of bread is tripled. - There's no grain in Rome. Because the grain supply from Egypt Half Rome is without bread. &lt;i&gt;The city is close to panic.&lt;/i&gt; Only the very rich can afford bread. We must fight the pirates now So I propose that Pompey be given legions ...once and for all. It's not a question of whether it's a matter of how. I propose we equip ten small armies... ...to fight the pirates But the pirates can destroy Rome, The pirates are a bunch I hardly think they could withstand Let's talk about the way Not about the way I can attest to the threat posed I was a victim of one Then perhaps you will regale us in the tavern after the work The work of the Senate You see there are not ...in our waters, And not all the rogue bands There are pirate admirals, sea kings... ...with thousands of ships ...in the naval combat Pretty speeches like this No, speeches do as little How dare this arrogant newcomer August and plump, Bibulus, Fat from idle Enough, enough... Enough! We have a man in ...resolve this conflict But do we honor him - No. ...we have no bread. Now are we a great empire or... ...are we going To perform this commission, Pompey will have to be given ...of the one Sulla used Have we learned I see. Rome should go hungry because Cato Not any man with an army Not every man is a Sulla. Some men are ruled by circumstance ...bend circumstances to their will. They make nature ...that their will is carried out They defy the elements, and sometimes even defy in order to see that their ideals... ...come alive before their eyes. Pompey is such a man. Those of you who have lived... ...know that one thing alone Civil strife. Tribes fighting tribes rather than ...in one arm of power. As long as we fight in this room... ...seeking personal victories, Rome will stay small! I propose we put our opinions aside... ...and let one feeling The love of Rome. I propose we put our strengths ...the world has never seen. I propose we let a man... ...a single man, lead us out of the dark. I propose Pompey. All those in favor. Can we come inside? Why, there's nothing but a bunch Is the consul in there? Yes, this is consul Gnaeus Pompey. And who is this? This is my daughter Julia. And Apollonius, Julia, your father has just proved to us - But don't think it's all fun. Because he'll always have They're silly looking old men. I'll see when I return. In triumph. Apollonius says... ...that when we die, our soul goes All the beds are perfect beds, all the circles are perfectly round. YEARS LATER - Marcus! Julia... look at you. Brutus, wake up and tell Julia - Beautiful. All dressed for Pompey's triumph. Has Apollonius returned? I wanted to talk to him about Plato. No, he hasn't returned. I'll bet he ran off to fight Those rebel slaves They aren't educated men Well, we had a Moorish cook We heard he joined the rebels, From cook to commander, You talk as if it's a game. I don't. Think about it. At least half of the population of Rome And what would happen It would be the end of Rome. Rome had to act. What do you mean? Pompey... he defeated 20,000 of them I was going with you. None of you wants to join No offense, father, ...we're going to trail along Rome's greatest general returns and... - ...and follow him. Go, enjoy yourselves. - Come on. Brutus? Aren't you going with them? - I wanted to return this to Apollonius. Ah, yes, Plato's Law. - Did you read it? And? Well, Plato thinks that democracy He thinks that a state A dictator who's become enlightened I don't think Plato would get along - Brutus! Hurry up! Hurry and catch up with your friends - See you at the ceremony. Goodbye, father! Pompey! Pompey! Pompey! Pompey! Pompey! Pompey! Pompey! Pompey! Thank you for your kindness. Let me take care of my son now. Who are these people? - Prisoners. Pirates and slaves. Apollonius! Apollonius! Apollonius! Consul! Consul! Step back! Wait. Speak. I have a friend among I ask you... to free him. And who are you I'm Julia, daughter of - Your fellow consul. Didn't you know, ...against Rome are Rome's enemies, Apollonius was my teacher Everything good and decent ...has been taught to me by him. You must spare him! For my sake! Consider your wish granted. Take her to the holding pens, and release this slave Apollonius Yes, sir. Thank you, Consul. Thank you. - Apollonius! Apollonius... ...I've come to take you home! I'm not coming with you. I shall stay here. They will crucify you! You've grown into a fine woman. Intelligent, full of everything that makes I am not a Roman, Julia. - I am a slave. You're free! Freedom is not something It's something you have to take. If you have done it earlier, I should have asked my father. He would have granted it. But I never thought It felt as though you were free. I thought you happy. I was. But isn't happiness I'm seeking out. - Something else. Dignity. You've been good to me. You've been my family. But they are my family now. We both know where we belong... ...and I belong in there, with them. One day you'll understand... ...my dear Julia. Goodbye. Mother... Rest. Something happened to me there. It's an affliction, no more no less. Your grandfather suffered I meant something else. Thought it happened He's been a friend to me, and we speak together easily... Yet we couldn't be more different. He's a great army leader. His provinces make him the richest Your father wanted you to be a statesman That would have been I need an army. To turn yourself into a Pompey? How would you pay and feed Your consulship Yes, I am consul and I am broke. The attack today There was something else mother, this attack was different How? I saw something. I saw something at that moment. Not just about myself... ...but about the whole humankind. How we keep ourselves small. And I realized And as I watched Pompey and he would never be inspired. And I realized the difference Pompey has merely done something... ...but I am for something. And I need legions. Pompey has them. He will lend them to me. Why would Pompey do that, What could you offer him in return Julia... ...I'm sorry for I felt great affection We trust in the wisdom and in their laws. Hail Pompey! Cato, you flatter me. But let us give credit For I could not have fought ...without knowledge that Rome And for that we owe a debt of gratitude Gaius Julius Caesar! Hail, Caesar! This is my daughter, Julia. Yes I know, we've met. It would honor my house Not in front of so many people. You've done it in Father, I assure you Come. Come. The daughter of Caesar Tonight, stand beside me and praise with me... ...a man dear to me and to the gods. Mightier in victory with their golden haired horses. And stronger far more that ride the shores of Troy. Hear me, sons of gold headed men. Hear me sing the victory... ...of a man dear to me - It's really nothing. I'm not sure whose fault it is and he will be punished severely. Thank you, Consul, you're very kind. - What's your name? - From which House? I'm sorry for staring, ...met somewhere before. - Would you like to eat together? What hour do you call this? I think it's known Yes, the sun is coming up. You're right, I was out with him. We drank and ate - He cares for me. And your friend, remember? Yes, he is my friend. I just want to know I like him. I do. I don't love him, not yet, but... ...that may come. Why are you behaving He is consul. He is the first man in Rome. He has legions. The price is high. Price? It's customary for You know I have nothing to give you. I accept. I want a commission. Gaul. By Cassius. You're not experienced enough Your legions. She's all I've got, Talents? Soldiers. How could you do it? How could you take my commission away? Because I think Caesar's But I've already put myself to considerable - And you'll be reimbursed. And I'll propose that you - The garrison? - You didn't put this before the Senate... ...at my wedding. It may tempt bad luck. I have a confession to make. What's that? We did meet before. Or rather... ...I met you, It was at Pompey's triumph. You fell. Nobody saw it, but me. I held you to make sure you didn't... - ...hurt yourself. It shames me. I never know when Many people believe that ...are holy. Blessed by the gods. Perhaps. What do you suppose ...blended together I think... it would look Do you? - Is it something you'd like to find out? Are you sure? I am less sure about my own name I am terrible around the house. We have servants. I'm not one for parties, I'll follow you. Caesar... - ...you must make me a promise. Come back from this war alive. I promise you. - And hurry. - And win it. Now it is your turn Will you marry me before I leave? BORDERS OF GAUL &lt;i&gt;- How many dead? &lt;i&gt;- And Romans? I've had to prepare We're not returning to Rome. &lt;i&gt;We're going farther north.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;There's a lot more of Rome out there.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Just isn't called Rome yet.&lt;/i&gt; The Rome attacking! We must tell Caesar to retreat. What I gave to Caesar, Wait! Put down your blades. Why have you come here? This land is ours, What is your name? Vercingetorix. - You stayed to fight alone? I'll fill it with my own hands, You're free to go. Give me a horse. You heard him. Give him a horse. &lt;i&gt;My dear Caesar,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;the people speak of you &lt;i&gt;Some call you &quot;the Great&quot; &lt;i&gt;In the market, people sometimes &lt;i&gt;It will also delight you to know,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;that the marriage that began &lt;i&gt;has blossomed into romance.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Watching Julia and Pompey &lt;i&gt;and saddens me &lt;i&gt;No one could be prouder &lt;i&gt;But after so long without you,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I fear I'm getting used &lt;i&gt;Come home soon my darling.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Until then I will be waiting.&lt;/i&gt; Caesar has killed 300,000 Celts! He attacked peaceful villages, It's beyond toleration! This is how you thank Caesar sent 100,000 slaves Are you saying you haven't Oh, if they hadn't come from him, I would have got them Pompey, you have to be weary. He's been away three years He's doubled their salary. They are totally devoted to him! My lords, as Cicero Strain every nerve for look in every corner for the storms. They will burst upon you I just remembered who he is! - What are you talking about? - Mark Antony? Running from his debtors in Rome - ...like all of us. I still fight for the glory of Rome! - Our cavalry's been attacked. - Gallic tribesmen. 14,000 dead. And many more wounded. His name is Vercingetorix. - Where could we find him? &lt;i&gt;- How long is the march? Vercingetorix is in there It's the most invincible - We'll never break it. We'll build a wall We'll trap them inside Nobody's ever built Then we will be the first. Let's not waste time. What do you mean? - I'm here to see Pompey. POMPEY'S MANOR - Cato! Julia! What brings you to Pisa? I've come to speak with you. Your absence in Rome As you can see, Could we speak privately? What's the matter, Cato? Did your conversation Sit, sit, Cato. Thank you. Caesar is about to take Vercingetorix has called forth every tribe They are on the move to Alesia! How many men? Two hundred and fifty thousand! - And my husband? He... He will survive. He has survived He's never been up against so much. Is this true? Will my husband lose this time? No one knows the outcome of war. You are consul. If Caesar wins this battle... He will become the next Sulla. That's what you were going That if he wins he will Why are you worried, Cato? You said he doesn't stand a chance Why call him back? Why not just leave him there to fight If you leave him there, your next Sulla You're waiting for my husband And so are you. &lt;i&gt;My dear Calpurnia,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I'm doing everything in my power &lt;i&gt;You must have heard we've built a wall &lt;i&gt;What you may not know is that &lt;i&gt;...to keep their allies out.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I say this to reassure you...&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;...they can round up ten times our number &lt;i&gt;because it's not numbers &lt;i&gt;My vision is of &lt;i&gt;And not just returning, &lt;i&gt;...as I've promised you.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;When my men are tired, &lt;i&gt;When they're hungry, &lt;i&gt;But when they forget their vision,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I can share mine with them.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;And the more that I share...&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;...more of it I have.&lt;/i&gt; It will take 30 days How much food have we got? 27 days of grain. Then we'll make them last 35. We will divide rations... ...of all the grain With the penalty of death, The tribesmen come from The Gauls will outnumber If we succeed... ...we could destroy the Roman If we fail... we'll be their slaves. &lt;i&gt;In the evening we take our leisure.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Tell stories about the city or just eat in silence &lt;i&gt;The men do work hard,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;but, there are worse things &lt;i&gt;Waiting is much worse.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Waiting is the hardest &lt;i&gt;Most of our men would welcome &lt;i&gt;...over this dreaded silence.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;They would fight an enemy &lt;i&gt;...sooner than fight the one in our minds The real enemy is almost a comfort... &lt;i&gt;...I sometimes think &lt;i&gt;They're just like us, &lt;i&gt;they're dying like us.&lt;/i&gt; The tribe should have been If they don't come... ...we'll have to fight on our own. We don't have enough men. I say... - ...we give ourselves up. If we die... our gods die. At least if we live... - In slavery? If we live, we can perform We can keep them living You think the gods would want us ...so they can be If we have nothing I say we... do what our We eat the elderly and the infirm... ...to keep ourselves alive. We won't eat our own people. There's enough food left ...if we only feed our men. There's a way we can To weaken them. They say... ...we give up our women Our rations will keep us alive If our women and children ...the Romans ...and that will deplete We must bid farewell We must do it today... ...and whatever happens you must Our survival depends upon it. This will be our sacrifice Open the doors! Please, help! Open the doors! Open the gates! Send men down to the gates. Bolt the gates... ...and double the guard. Caesar, I beg you to reconsider. They'll all die. I will not stare my own men... ...to keep the enemy alive. Send them back to Alesia. Go back! Go! &lt;i&gt;Open the gates!&lt;/i&gt; - What is this? This is not soup. This is water! We fight for years, We die for Rome, and we get water? Stop! Now! What is the difference between Discipline! We act as one body! That's what makes us strong! You think I eat well... I eat the same portions as you... ...and I am hungry. But I would eat soil, before I give up And that is everything... ...you see! You! Will you raise your family... ...on that hillside? Would that be a plot of land? You! That field there... ...between those trees... ...that's yours if you want it. It's rich soil, good for growing. All of you... ...each and every one of you You have worked for it. By the gods, we've given our souls Let's not abandon Open the gates! &lt;i&gt;I told you before, and I tell you again,&lt;/i&gt; is the worst Caesar's crime! He's away in war on behalf of Rome! - We commissioned him to fight the Gauls! He started fighting the insurgents ...to murder... ...peaceful Roman allies, Gauls, who pay taxes and tribute to Rome. Caesar is not Sulla, he's fighting the Gauls! He's not threatening us, Once Caesar was consul, how many times ...without having it ratified? He has no respect for us! Something had better be done... ...and right away! I propose we do nothing at all. Cassius. You say all of Gaul He can't possibly win... To arms! This is it. Motion at the gate! He's trying to fool us How do you know what he'll do? Because it's what I would do. I will wait here for His men are too weak He will move his cavalry here and try ...while his allies attack We cannot let these If they do, we will not survive. Prepare to fire! Fire! Forward! We must hold on! Go! Retreat! Try one! Try the other! Caesar, your men are asking for you. &lt;i&gt;It is with great sadness that I write &lt;i&gt;Your Julia gave birth early and &lt;i&gt;The doctors were there and did &lt;i&gt;The child was a boy, but frail, &lt;i&gt;He looked like you, Caesar, &lt;i&gt;Your daughter struggled &lt;i&gt;but in the end she could not.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Pompey has kept himself &lt;i&gt;preferring instead &lt;i&gt;He walks around the graveyard &lt;i&gt;keeping fresh garlands on her tomb.&lt;/i&gt; We take Alesia in the morning. Open the gate! I know your only real enemy is one man I'm giving myself to you, Caesar. Our women died for us. I give you my own life If my men die, there will be no one left I beg you. Enslave my people if you need to, but let them live. Your men will live. &lt;i&gt;My dear wife,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;we will have to wait a bit more &lt;i&gt;You see there are those in Rome &lt;i&gt;So I have sent Mark Antony to talk &lt;i&gt;Since there has never been a soldier &lt;i&gt;...who returned to Rome &lt;i&gt;I too must be planning such an assault, &lt;i&gt;Because I return not &lt;i&gt;And this the Senate cannot tolerate.&lt;/i&gt; How long ago did Sulla breaking the sacred ...must bring armed men How fresh in your memory does bloodshed Caesar has done more for Rome How do you respond? You strip him of his consulship, He's more than doubled the size of Rome ...and what do you ask him to do? Lay down his arms. It is not Caesar, It is this Senate! This Senate represents This Senate represents Sulla said almost the very same thing. If he said it, he was right. But the difference between The people feared Sulla, You know nothing... ...of the people's feelings. You're right, I don't. Let me ask them. People of Rome, I come to you He needs to know what you want The Senate says but the Senate wants Caesar to lay down not as a soldier. ...will find him guilty Caesar's crime is spending with none of the comforts ...and with a daily threat So he can bring wealth Temples, libraries, ...are all funded yet what do they think in the Senate? They think he's doing this If he's doing this for private gain, why does he stay in Gaul? Why does he live in a tent? I know why he does it. He does it so we Romans What are you going to do about this? Whatever these men may think, some of whom have never been I have never known a man nor gentler to its friends. When I call myself a Roman, the thing that makes me most proud, is to share that title A man whom it has been a man who has shown ...that he loves his own life His name is Gaius Julius Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! &lt;i&gt;Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar!&lt;/i&gt; We must do something, Pompey. Caesar could march I'm not going to wait for him I'll gather our troops... ...and attack him before I'm going to wipe him and his legions &lt;i&gt;Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar!&lt;/i&gt; Men, we have two choices: We can be slaughtered by the army or we can fight for our lives, just as we've done I've made my decision! I'm going to Rome! I'm going to cross the Rubicon! Will anyone be coming with me? Yeah! To Rome! Let the dice fly! My legions from Spain should The Thracians will come to us and from the East the Macedonians. Caesar is on his way to Rome! - How far is he? That's impossible! I heard it from Bibulus himself. Caesar has passed the Rubicon. We must leave Rome. We'll go to Greece. We amass what strength we can, I only hope we don't ...and find the bodies of Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! It has been decreed ...that the title of dictator It has been decreed... ...there will be fifty days He is given the courts Hail, Caesar! You treat me as a king, though I assure that is I am Caesar, and only Caesar. Is for this crown alone Caesar! Caesar! Beware the Ides of March! The Ides of March... ...beware! The men and women of Rome For a moment, You don't know how I see them. I was disgusted with them. How do you keep your purpose When I met you in ...that you had your purpose and it was pure. I can see that it hasn't changed. What did you do to preserve it? You want to know? Yes. I only fight my enemies. You think we are similar, don't you? That's why it pains you But we are very different, you and me. I know when it's over. Or when what's left Give me the honor of dying alone... ...by my own hand, instead of in a public spectacle I have to do what the people want, I thought power gave you Listen to them! Do you hear that? I don't hear anything ...of our women and I can hear them when I'm asleep... ...and I hear them when I'm awake. For pity's sake, give me a sword. Hail, Caesar! Hail, Caesar! The ranks here... - ...are depleted. How shall we explain to the people... ...that these men They haven't been selected... - ...by the traditional legal... And keep in mind, And you will be joined I've spent eight years I must leave for Greece I'm leaving Rome in Do we have no say in this? I don't want to distract you I'd rather leave you free Do you think there will be black lists? There won't be any lists. Sulla killed his enemies, Good day to you, gentlemen. They left in a hurry. Attend the Caesar! I did not cross the Rubicon I did it to protect myself I'm hoping we can secure ourselves You're all free to go. We owe all our lives to Caesar. Did you say something, I thought I heard you speak. I'm grateful for your clemency. Brutus, come dine with me. Caesar... ...make peace with Pompey. Now, for years, his only hope you would rule Rome, - ...with... With Julia, uniting you both. Yes, he tolerated me, Caesar, he loved Julia He told me that... Julia's death And add to that the end of your friendship, I'll make peace with him I want to establish The people have had Will you help me? How can I help you? I want you to go back to Rome If peace is what you want, then it'll be my honor to serve you. Pompey has gone to Egypt. The king died, leaving throne ...by a twelve-year-old boy Ptolemy and Cleopatra? I don't know which one I trust less. Help me ready the ships. I'll follow him in the morning. You don't need to take Pompey has gone to Egypt alone. - With your uncle Cato? Trust me, Brutus, whoever wants peace, will have it. ALEXANDRIA He was most cruelly murdered It has been rumored that they were By Caesar. There's only one enemy left. I am Pothinus, In the name of king Ptolemy, Your king is very generous, but as you can see, This grain is for your men, sir. My men will eat indoors, Pothinus. I'm sure you'll put us up I'll tell you the truth, Caesar. Ptolemy fears for his life. There's been a great deal so he has forbidden all visitors. You, of course, are very welcome in the palace. And my men? And your men. Pothinus, you wouldn't have ...helping the king make his decisions? - Would you? Forgive him, and forgive me. We are your allies and We only have the interests Bring out the gift. This is Pompey's ring! Where is he? We thought... ...you'd be pleased. Excuse me, Caesar. There's a servant with an urgent Bring her! If you want to hear the message What word from Cleopatra is Cleopatra asks for your protection. Protection, why? Pothinus plans to kill her, Is that why you are disguised ...Cleopatra? I came to you, Caesar, because you are Why does Pothinus want to kill you? My father wanted me to rule Egypt, But Pothinus banished me Now any servant can kill me Caesar... ...you and I, are alike. You are the son of Venus, You and I, live by the same divine... ...heartbeat. That's why we must Are you trying to seduce me? I don't try. I seduce... ...or I don't. I do not have to seduce I have something My country. It is the richest Egypt and Rome are different. Rome is masculine, Egypt is feminine. Rome, is sunlight, Egypt is twilight. But it's not part of Rome, not yet. Make me queen, and the East We will be god and goddess You kiss me with I must test you to see - And am I? - Will you stay with in Egypt, Caesar? - ...that Rome does not? - Is it a region down below? What grows there? I believe the region If you doubt it, try planting Only promise me one thing. When you return to Rome, But I'm married, - ...with you! Demand you give yourself to a woman. In politics you lie, You think that her influence is evil. And no one is more And she'll do anything Some say she's a witch. I think you've been skulking If Caesar wants to be king... - ...would you prevent it? What if he did? Of course I'd do anything At least with Sulla, the Tyranny With a king... ...the reign can be ...to another son forever. Our ancestors knew too well Had your ancestors fought to sent the Kings they would stop at nothing So would I. That's what we hoped Is this just conjecture? I've heard nothing about this They were all talking it about, Brutus. They say there's nothing between Cesar promised me... ...that he would never kill Cato. Do you think Cesar's incapable Is it worth trying him If Cato is killed ...then I'll be the first to oppose it. But I will not prepare myself CATO'S FORT - Father! - I had it removed. You said before that - ...you might... ...would deliver me naked Your own son wants you to live! So, you take away the sword When did I go mad that you have ...for my own protection! Am I your father or your son? Why don't you bind ...so I can't defend myself at all? - We'll bury him with honors. Let the state celebrate his life. Which state? Rome? The Rome of Caesar? To accept your honors And on behalf of I decline. Now I'm asking you &lt;i&gt;We should speak of Cato as a god.&lt;/i&gt; He killed himself so he ...by the hand of The higher we lift Cato's name... ...the lower Caesar's will sink. Still... we must appear No. No, it's an art to plant ideas And a man is never so resolved as it is That's why we need It wouldn't be mixed in with the cause They listen to him. What if he won't... I think I know how to soften Brutus... ...but I will need your help. There is no peace in the world Calpurnia... ...would you greet Dismiss them. Can't a man return to his home and expect How could you bring her to Rome? It was for the good of the state. Cleopatra rules And all of you. No one rules me, Calpurnia. Not Cleopatra, not even you. But what I want is the love that You can't have it. You can have my obedience, but I cannot love No one can dishonor you. You're right, I dishonored myself... ...when I gave my vows You made a good marriage, I should have married a man that would have been So I wouldn't have had to watch my husband in order to keep the riches Between you and Cleopatra, Retain your dignity, there's a limit I have no dignity left. Perhaps... I ought to buy some. Maybe I should learn, like you have, What's the price? What's the price What's the price of being king? When did your hope of bringing ...become this lust Was it when Julia died? I have nowhere else to go ...but I'll live apart from you, May the gods forgive me as I pray they forgive you You're an early riser, Brutus. So are you. Lately I am. I couldn't sleep last night Do you know something about these? I know the writing, Minds change quickly and I take you to forever Oh, Brutus I've done my best ...that you are a man of honor, though you wouldn't pledge I gave you my pledge that But some among us feel that to oppose ...is the same thing I try to use words before just as I try to use reason People say, calling on reason and sometimes action is required. But I know you're a decent man, and that your meek and gentle nature I'm not gentle in but you have given me no proof Do you plan to be at the Senate No, I'll be here. They say that on that day Caesar I will come if I am sent for. This is what they mean. People say that this is weakness, to come when you are summoned To accept the favors - He spared my life! ...your wife's father, Has she ceased her mourning? No, and neither have I. - So you're grieving over Cato's death. But private affection and public duty And yet they say that in your grief, ...and fill your wife's ...and when Caesar comes to you - ...and fill his cup as well. I don't act for Caesar! I act for Rome! Always for Rome! Brutus, I've done everything ...that you're a man of action I've spoken in your behalf many times ...and condemning those ...some men have ideas. They think highly of those who gave Your ancestors! ...not gods. - Please don't stay. - Why do you want to torment yourself? Will he? Isn't that what you wanted to do? It will be the best thing for Rome. I don't trust that you or any other man I will take my seat. A woman has a right Calpurnia! Portia. Romans, we're here to celebrate His return, not only with Her Majesty For he has transformed the richest land It is now not only Egypt. It is Egypt... and it is Rome! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! I've said before... ...and I will say again: I will not be king of Rome! I an only Caesar! I need no crown... ...to act on your behalf! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Caesar! Do you still believe that ours I'm with you. We have to act soon. &lt;i&gt;We will wait till Caesar &lt;i&gt;Lepidus will call for the elections.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Casca, you will ask Caesar &lt;i&gt;You, Cassius, No man should go for his blade... ...until we're all within reach of Caesar. &lt;i&gt;Every knife must enter ...at least once. &lt;i&gt;And if... we fail,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;or if our plot is discovered then we turn our knives on ourselves... &lt;i&gt;...without hesitation.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;We all agreed?&lt;/i&gt; Go to the Senate. I will meet Go. Brutus... ...why are you pacing like that? I'm concerned we'll be late. Caesar! Calpurnia, what are you doing here? I had a dream last night! I'll come to you later, I saw you slaughtered, It was horrible! Well, I cannot let dreams I can't let you go. I swallow my pride because your life is more important to me The Senate is convened for the consul. They can't conduct one day There are matters on the agenda... ...which can only be - They can wait a day! That their consul is at home, As... your friend, Caesar, You called the Senate together. Show them you're a man of intention, They're waiting for your guidance. I'll be with him lady. I'll never leave his side. I'll come to you later. Hail, Caesar! Hail, Caesar! Portia. I'm not fit to be alone today. Sit down. - Bring us some wine! What business do we have today? Two legal briefings, ...the petitions from the Senate. Let's get the election out of the way. The election! I move we... ...take the petitions, first. I called for the election, But... ...Marcus Octavius, who is running Petitioners, then. Approach! I'm glad Caesar is with Brutus today. Why? Last night I dreamt, Brutus... Caesar, I ask mercy Why are you petitioning what Who is the next petitioner? I want to ask mercy for my father, I ruled your father be Old man! You said something ill will befall Well, nothing has happened yet, They have come, I want to ask for your pardon, And I pray for your soul. Stop it! Caesar! Caesar has been slain! Brutus... AFTER CAESAR'S DEATH, ROME WAS PLUNGED CAESAR'S KILLERS HAVEN'T SURVIVED NONE OF THEM DIED CASSIUS FELL BY THE SAME DAGGER BRUTUS TOOK HIS OWN LIFE PORTIA LOST HER MIND OVER BRUTUS' DEATH MARCUS ANTONIUS WHEN AUGUSTUS, CAESAR'S SUCCESSOR, THE SON OF CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA CALPURNIA NEVER MARRIED AGAIN