Translator: Rhonda Jacobs When I was growing up as a child, I was teased very often teased for not being able to concentrate, and you know, had I not been born a few decades ago, I probably would have been given like ADD or ADHD, branded and probably drugged It wasn't until I was in my early 20s - I grew up in Australia - where I joined my guru's monastery, it was a cloistered, where he taught me how to concentrate. And that's what I want you this concept of being taught It's in my humble opinion for two reasons. One is, we're never taught and second is, we don't So, how can you do something And how can you be good at something Let's take a little survey here. How many of you here in the audience, were formally taught how to concentrate? Can we have a show of hands? Like, formal training in concentration, in school, like classes every week. Okay, one person... Right. So, here's a question for you: How many of you in this room here, (Laughter) Isn't that amazing? People tell us to concentrate, And I got told &quot;Dandapani, concentrate &quot;Dandapani, concentrate Anybody want to show me how to do it? How many of you here have children? Okay, how many of you (Laughter) Do you show them how to? No, right? And then you wonder You can't expect somebody to do something And then if they want to be good at it, So, if I wanted to play or dance with you know, I ask people this question How many hours a day should I practice? General answer's usually And then I ask them, so after six months, The answer's usually no. After a year? No. But I'd be better at basketball, right? I'd be a better ballet dancer. So, imagine if you practice distraction what would you be good at Distraction. After a year? You'd be really good at distraction. After a year and a half? You'd be an expert at distraction, you'd write the New York Times TEDx would invite you to come You'd get on stage, you'd forget what you That's how good you are. Alright. But the truth is, we don't practice distraction The truth is, we probably practice it more like 16 hours a day, The average person sleeps just say, roughly, so we're awake Let's just say on the average, seven days a week, distraction. And then you wonder That's the law of practice. The law of practice is that we become good Whether it's positive If you practice something you become really good at it. And that's why people because it's what they practice. Why aren't people good at concentration? Because they're never taught it, They don't need to be drugged. They just need to be taught how to do it. Children don't need to be drugged. They just need to be taught Then they need to practice it, to become a good tennis player, a performer, anything. Practice, practice, practice. And then people say things like technology are great distractors, right? Smartphones. &quot;Oh, I have this thing, The internet. Are they distractors? I'd like to say no, first, and then yes. But mostly no. Why? Let me tell you a story. When I left Australia after university it was a very traditional monastery so when you join the monastery you literally have to give everything up: your family, your friends, everything you owned. And when you got to the monastery, a set of beads, and a MacBook Pro laptop. (Laughter) Yes, I did say a Mac. So, every monk got a Mac, and when iPhones came out, And it's really interesting- it's always fascinating to me when I tell them about monks with Macs. You know, and I remember this lady once, and she asked me a question, &quot;Why don't you send me an e-mail, and I could e-mail you back a response and it will give you some nice insights.&quot; She looked at me kind of strangely &quot;Is it okay for monks to use e-mail?&quot; I said, &quot;Of course it's okay as long as there are no attachments.&quot; (Laughter) Some people are just getting it now. So, technology in itself It's actually a beautiful thing, But if every time your iPhone beeps and you go, &quot;Yes, master. then you live It's training you to be distracted. But if you actually use technology, When I said yes, earlier, there are some aspects of technology For example on the Mac but that's as easy turning off those notifications but choosing what you want to engage with. So, technology in itself The question is, do we choose So, how do we become We start by understanding the mind. Right? All of us have a mind. It's the most powerful tool in the world. It built a smartphone, it's put machines Yet there's no manual for the mind, right? When was the last time Yet you buy a point-and-shoot camera is to point and shoot; Yet we have the most complex and there's no manual. So, the first thing I learnt was to learn how the mind works. Because once you know and once you can control it, You can't focus or concentrate something So, how does the mind work? From the monk's perspective, there are two things One is there's awareness; and one is the mind. I'll take a few moments and share what they are. Imagine awareness like an orb that can float around. Okay? So, that's awareness. Now imagine your mind as a vast space, a vast area with many One area of the mind is anger, happiness, joy, science, art. And this glowing ball of light can travel within the mind, and it can go to any And when it goes it lights up that area. When it lights up that area of the mind, So, give you an example. Your friend invites you &quot;Hey Doug, do you want to go see &quot;Sure, let's go.&quot; Okay, so you go to the theater, you're chatting with your friend, And if it's a really great he or she can take your awareness to any area of the mind They can take you to a happy area of the mind, the movie can get really exciting, And 90 minutes later, and it says, &quot;The End.&quot; And you turn to your friend and you go, But you paid $13 or $14 or $15, to allow the director to different areas of the mind. And this happens on a daily basis - each day we allow someone to take our awareness When we allow a person we're being distracted. The art of concentration that ball of light, on one thing Every time that ball of light It drifts away again, we bring it back. Right? So, that's the theory, you have awareness, You are not the mind - when people say, technically, that's a false statement. What wanders is your awareness; So, that's the theory of it. So, let's do a simple, to see if this actually works For that, I need audience participation. I need all of you to sit up straight If you have anything in your lap or hand, Sit up straight in your chair If you're leaning back, I want you to close your eyes, take a slow, deep breath in, and I want you become aware of the chair become aware of any sounds the sound of my voice, the humming of the projector Now I want you to become aware of the most Do you remember whose wedding it was? Who was getting married? Did you approve of the marriage? Try and think everything you can Did you go by yourself? Did you go with your family? Was it a large wedding, or was it small and intimate How was the food? Was it good? Was there alcohol? Did you drink a lot? Do you even remember how much you drank? Do you remember Did she make a good choice? Now I want you to remember the most recent vacation that you went on. Do you remember where it was? And what kind of vacation was it anyway? Was it a yoga retreat? Was it educational? Was it adventure? How long did you go for? What was the weather like over there? Try and think everything you can Did you spend a lot of money? How was the food? Spicy? Bland? Bad? Did you get sick eating the food? Now your eyes are still closed, I want you to become aware Become aware of the chair the sound of my voice, humming of the air Now slowly open your eyes Okay, that was a very simple exercise One is, there's a clear separation and second is, you can actually and move it to any area of the mind because you just allowed me to do that. I took your awareness from this room, becoming aware of this chair the sound of my voice, the air and you went to the wedding and the longer you stayed there, How do I know you were thinking about it? Because I had my eyes open &quot;Did the bride make a bad choice?&quot; some of you went, like, mm-yeah, (Laughter) with a dress, yes! So, I knew you were thinking And then you went and you traveled all the way and you stayed there, and while in the vacation area, or about the room. And then you went from the vacation and I made you think and you weren't thinking And this is what happens all day. We allow people and things around us from one area of the mind From the time we wake up, To be concentrated on one thing for an extended How do we practice this? We practice this by doing What's the best way The best way to develop concentration is to bring the practice Look at opportunities throughout your day. In your average day, ask yourself, what's a great opportunity How many of you have a spouse Quite a few of you. Every time you speak keep that ball of light, It drifts away; bring it back. It drifts away; bring it back. The more you practice this, the more you become better Give her or him your undivided attention. So, if you speak to your spouse what a great opportunity Every time you speak with your child, Parents come up to me &quot;Dandapani, how can I teach Very easy: you learn to concentrate first. You know, there's an old saying that goes: And if you can't concentrate, you can't expect your child And if you don't teach your children how can they possibly They can't. The benefits of concentration When you're able to concentrate, you're able to focus all your energy Life is a manifestation And if you can't concentrate your energy, the things you want to manifest So, learn to concentrate Bring this practice into everything Make it a part of your life. Practice, practice, practice. Keep bringing awareness back, and keep it focused Share this knowledge with your children. Be an example for them Let's stop drugging our children, and solve the simple problem and helping them Be unwavering in your focus. Proceed with confidence because life is meant And it all begins by learning and staying focused. Thank you very much everyone.