Say hello to Chorda - the instrument designed for everyday life. Chorda can be used play synthesizer sounds, make your own beats, turn one note into an entire melody make your own songs in seconds record or upload your own samples, and use it as a MIDI controller. You can play it like this Or even like this. In this video, we're gonna take a deep dive at some of the many features First, let's take a look at Chorda. Chorda has twelve velocity-sensitive pads The pads on Chorda respond to many different Press Vibrato Radiate even Tilt. This is the bridge with six individual Right next to it, you'll find the a menu button to switch between modes Taking a look at the sides of different menu functions which we'll Down here, you'll see the On the other side, you'll see a USB-C input which can be used to charge Chorda as well You should receive a cable with your Chorda, In addition to USB, you can also connect Chorda it automatically enters a Bluetooth discovery mode which you can use to connect Finally, you have an eighth-inch audio speakers, or even an amplifier. Chorda has four basic playing modes: Drum Bass Chord and Lead. Let's take a look at each. First is Drum mode where each pad is set to You can play traditional electronic or even something like this. Oh, anyway, you can use the triggers on the Let's go on over to Bass mode. In Bass mode, each of the pads are set Like a lot of classic synthesizers, this mode is monophonic which With the bridge, it takes the notes you play and automatically loads an entire Next on Chorda is Chord mode. Pretty cool, right? Each of these pads plays a full chord based on Using the bridge in Chord mode, you can Or strum out an entire chord. There's a lot more cool things you can do let's check out Lead mode. Now unlike Bass and Chord mode which are the Lead mode is set to a pentatonic scale. It's also polyphonic meaning you can Using the bridge, you can turn these And those are Chorda's four basic playing modes. In this next section, we're gonna take a deeper look at the menu to see some On both sides of Chorda, you'll notice that each pad has a secondary function If you press the A button by itself, basic playing modes. If you'd like A button and the pad corresponding Each mode has dozens of presets already through different sounds without needing Let's see how this works on Chord tap the pad for the Chord mode which is pad three. you should notice the lights on the bridge function as up or down selectors. As you're notice the pads on Chorda will light up to show Most of the menu on Chorda uses this so if that was a little confusing, feel Pad five allows you to change the octave you're playing in. Think of it as playing the Press the A button and then pad while using the selectors to change One thing to note, pressing A selector will take you back to the default octave. Now, let's take a look at the arpeggiator. The arpeggiator, or arp, is another Chorda. It allows you to play You can turn on the arpeggiator by pressing the A button and pad six. You'll know it's In Chord mode, it plays all of the notes In any of the other modes, if you press When you start to play multiple pads at once, the arp will continue to play You can control the speed of the arpeggiator Each pad is divided into three different zones. and slide down to slow the arpeggiator down. It even works for Drum mode. I'm going to skip around the rest of Chorda comes with tons of built-in With this feature, you have multiple different songs directly to your Chorda. Chorda allows you to store up to twelve You can cycle between them by pressing then using the selectors to slide When you switch songs, it'll save the one We'll cover Chorda's many different sounds app to select from and even create The eight pad allows you to control With this feature, each pad represents a Press the A button and then the eight pad, and use the selectors to choose the You can also change this using the Artiphon Connect app as well as change Let's skip over to the eleven pad. own songs in seconds using its built-in looper. To start recording, press the A see this pad light up red and hear a metronome. You can control the speed seven pad which controls BPM, or beats per minute. Hold the A button and use the selectors to You can also set the speed tapping the seven pad at the Chorda won't start recording As soon as you're done, press start back at the beginning. If your because quantize is turned on which syncs Let's add some bass. Now let's add some chords. Finally, let's add some lead. If there's a part you don't like, you can use because sometimes you don't You'll notice that all the pads will light up will just delete the part of the mode you're Finally, we have pad twelve Holding the A button and pad twelve but allow you to play along to it You can also use this to stop the looper if And there you have it - you just And that's Chorda in a nutshell.