(motor humming) - GTR, in its entire history, McLaren has only ever applied to three models. (engine roaring) And we brought all three together. (engine roaring) F1 GTR, P1 GTR, and Senna GTR. With matching deliveries, obviously. Because anything else would just look like we weren't really trying. Incredibly, the F1 GTR And the Senna GTR was originally designed to do much more than you might think. This is the McLaren GTR story. If this film opens your dihedral doors, then do please think about joining the Hagerty Driver's Club. You get an award-winning magazine, 24/7 flatbed roadside assistance, To find out more, just (pensive minimal music) - I probably should have about these three particular cars. They've all been road-registered. GTRs on the road. Madness, but brilliant. It's fair to say you in a Senna GTR on the road. As you do in the other two, all of which have been so they can roam amongst regular traffic like superheroes, strolling amongst us. Today, however, we're heading somewhere that we can stretch their legs a little, and also to meet the man at the heart and the start of the GTR story. Ray Bellm. (exciting music) - [Reporter] How'd it go around? - [Commentator] Right There they go past the going up the hill. Now in his 70s, he had principally in sports cars, but also with forays into He also co-founded Gordon before serving as chairman of the BRDC. But he's inextricably linked He instigated the F1's competition career, and went on to win 11 races in the car. More than anyone else. (engine roaring) This is the first time that Ray Bellm has been back in the 97 car in 27 years, since he last (engine roaring) Gordon Murray famously didn't to go racing, so just how - In 1994, I was racing And I'd already ordered a And I knew Ron very well. And it was at Dijon in '94 when Senna had his accident. And the week after, Ron phoned me up and he said, &quot;I'm being &quot;Can I come and have lunch So I said, &quot;Yeah, you can come &quot;and stay the night,&quot; or whatever. And he said, &quot;Okay, I'll Because he lived 20 minutes away. And we went to have lunch. And we were talking about my chassis 046. And I said to him, &quot;Because you know, once it's He said, &quot;Oh please don't race He said, &quot;It'll destroy &quot;everything you know that we're doing.&quot; He said, &quot;I will make &quot;for 1 million pounds, plus fat.&quot; So I said, &quot;I can't afford it.&quot; He said, &quot;Okay, I'll tell you &quot;and we'll make three cars.&quot; And later in that year, Thomas Becher, Lindsey Jones, and and we signed a contract And that was the start of it. He then sold another three. So there were six cars. and by the time we got to Le Mans in '95, I think there were seven F1s. That is how the project started. And whatever anyone else says, that was the instrumental which was, he said, &quot;You're gonna have to buy your road car.&quot; So I bought a race car as well. So I had a road and a race car. And that's how it started. (engine roaring) - [Host] With a little the McLaren F1 run by Lanzante would famously take the victory at Le Mans at its first attempt in 1995. With F1s filling four and cementing the car's legendary status. The Gulf McLaren with would finish an agonizing (engines roaring) - [Reporter] Surely one - Yeah, I made it a bit hard for myself because I spun when I took the lead. And thought, &quot;Bugger it, &quot;another 20 seconds.&quot; - [Host] Bellm, however, the BPR Global championship in '96. But the F1 was in something as other manufacturers entered the fray. - The '95 car was the - Yeah. very little changes, 'cause we were racing against And this car was vastly superior to it. So, it wasn't the fact that that you're winning, the best car really, which is 90% of motorsport. And then in the '96 car, and bought a '96 car, to the suspension, brakes, cooling. - Gearbox. the gearbox because the weak So they changed the gearbox. So we ran a '96 car, than the '95 car. It was stiffer, it was more responsive. And then, this is the '97 car, when we realized that the '96 car was no longer competitive, because Porsche had the GT1 and Mercedes were there, and everyone. - Which feels like a good point to have a bit of a drive. I've been lucky enough of a few F1 road cars, that was originally ordered by Ray, but I've never driven a GTR. This is chassis 28R, the (engine roaring) It's just extraordinary. It all at once feels familiar but definitely different to the road car. I mean the braking for a It rides so much flatter, you can see that over the bumps. It's obviously more stripped out in here. Whoa. Obviously more stripped out in here. And that's because it's was just 920 kilos. (engine roaring) This has got just over The 6.1s without a restrictor could be up to about 680. Despite the fact we have, on a big runway, this is, still feels so fast. Wow, interestingly, the got a six liter engine instead of the 6.1. Because BMW discovered the restrictor, it tipped being 6.1, and if they reduced it just fractionally to six liters, they can run a different restrictor and get better performance out of it. So things that are different about a GTR, well, for a start, I can only have one passenger on this side because this is full of electronics. The cabin is obviously devoid of trim, there's no air conditioning. There are fixed plexiglass windows, a roll cage, no rear view mirrors, what feels like quite and a digital dash instead (engine roaring) The other thing about this So there's the gear shift itself in this, which is a sequential. Just a little bit straight back. Wow. (engine roaring) The other thing about this gear shift is so when they went sequential, Gordon Murray actually had it so that you pushed forwards to go up a gear, pulled The racing drivers hated it, kept blowing up engines So immediately got switched around to a more normal way, Apparently Murray, with worked out that you can punch quicker than you can pull, and you save Obviously, you don't save any I've also heard reports that some GTRs had rear But this car, like the road cars, does without, just as Murray intended. It's amazing just how in (indistinct), you still but you can drive it so much more easily. (engine roaring) The brakes are obviously so much better. They put carbon ceramics (engine roaring) The fury of this with those shorter gears. I mean, I've been lucky enough to drive a few F1 road cars, What it must have been like to race one of these at Le Mans. Down at the (indistinct), just coming at or maybe from (indistinct) towards (indistinct). (engine roaring) Wow. What a car, what a privilege. (stirring music) One of the heroes of the was JJ Lehto, who was so that others claimed he must Bellm raced with the - I liked racing with JJ. He was an inspiration. And he said to me at Le Mans, he was, he gained 0.2 of a second So by the time you'd finished the lap, he was one and a half And I said, &quot;JJ, how do you do this?&quot; And he said, &quot;Ah Ray, you've &quot;really hard and then let them off, &quot;you know, but really hard.&quot; So I tried it and I went on the Mulsanne Straight. So he has a special talent or feel for the car that - Yeah. Even in the '96, he was It was an era. People say, oh, it was Everyone thinks their And the best era to race in. But this was special. It was very special. And to be at the front was a privilege. (engines roaring) - The P1 GTR was absolutely its forbearer, with numerous paint jobs mimicking the old race cars. Whether that be Harrods, Lark, or in this case, Gulf Davidoff. Which seems to mimic the over a darkening landscape. (engine roaring) Oh my word. And it's so fast! Talk about fast forward nearly 20 years, 'cause that's what it So this P1 GTR is a little bit special, even by P1 GTR standards. Because this has got an So it's about 1,080 brake the 986 of the standard one. And I never thought (engine roaring) But it's obviously not just on this, compared to a regular P1 GTR. Because Lanzante has like the rear body work to visually link it to the F1 long tail, that it's twins with. Other things you notice, so from the F1 GTR, which I love. Obviously these belts are exactly the same Like all the colors in here, so all the carbon, the (engine roaring) The seats are exactly the So it feels like, and these it all just evokes the earlier car. The fact that in this as that bright orange strip down there. No I'm not sitting in the center, but I've always thought with P1 actually, it feels very much like you sit right in the nose of the car. You really feel like you And yet it's beautifully balanced. But all that power and torque, kinda (indistinct), but actually it feels (indistinct). Really steer it off the top as well. Wait five minutes obviously. (engine roaring) The sound is totally different. It's still loud in here (indistinct). That (indistinct) extraordinary. (stirring music) Like the earlier F1 GTRs, the that is being designed to go on track rather than out and out race car. And as a result, it retains some of the road in its handling. I think this feels really pretty friendly to drive actually. (engine roaring) Just (indistinct). Oh, I said it before, I'll say it again. it's like sort of horizontal free fall. Just oh, picks you up. (stirring music continues) The wild acceleration is because it is so much easier to access. The initial electric but in some ways its even though the forces I love the way this looks as well. The sort of daylight opening, really makes you think of Something about proportions, Yes, this definitely feels heavier. This is over 1400 kilos. The power drain takes care of it. (pensive music) Driving the P1 demonstrates really is taken seriously Arguably, there were to this than there were that went to Le Mans. It's easy to be a little bit disparaging about the two modern track-only GTRs because they don't have the But in some ways, they're The F1 was incredibly lucky and Le Mans to go and race at, Imagine how good it would've were different, and the P1 and the Senna could have competed. How differently would we view them? The modern GTE regulations to race at Le Mans were in terms of time and money. A world away really, from had to deal with. Nonetheless, McLaren building a car to GTE regs. And in fact the Senna to go to Lasav. If that comes as a surprise, just have a look at the original Senna GTR that was unveiled at the It's a race car. The story being spun in the press release was that this was a car in the same vein as the P1 GTR, but that And the clues are there on the car. The huge front splitter and rear diffuser, the podium lights down the doors, the side exit exhausts, I suspect if you looked under the skin, you'd have found a race The production Senna GTR But there are still clear links to its unfulfilled And I think that really elevates it. When it came home, McLaren they produced outside of a Formula 1 car. And it feels so different again to the P1. It feels a lot lighter. It is lighter, 1188 kilos drive. But I'd argue it feels sort of, the difference between The agility as soon as total lack of inertia. The way it looks, it's like on watching fast table It hasn't got the outright run, is nothing to be sniffed at, but it doesn't have but it has got more traction than the P1. It feels like you have to kind more than in that. Again, when you get into this, you've also got the blue belts again, same seats again, all that carbon fiber. I love the fact you've up in the roof, that's super cool. It feels fob. And of course unlike all the active suspension, This is on passive dampers. It's like the 720 GT 3 program. (engine roaring) This feels like a race car and actually you want to You want to really lean an apex, because you can feel that there is a bit of under steer. And I remember that from the road car. Obviously, with the wider front end, the more grip on the front it's not the same. It feels great through the just lean on. It's such an edge to kind But here you really want to the apex, just get it loaded up, maximize the grip on the front end. 590 pounds feet of torque in this. Interestingly, it feels quite different to sitting compared to the P1. You feel like you sit more (engine roaring) Despite so many of the as the P1, the Senna really Purer in many ways. It also doesn't sound anywhere near as turbocharged as the P1. (engine revving) It's so cool to look at now as well. It's not operating like the other two, but you can't help but just trying to work out where all the air goes, what it's doing, that enormous rear wing. McLaren claims a thousand at 155 miles an hour, and the drag compared to the other two as the speed increases. Its breaking is just superb, about this, the road car was awesome, this is awesome too. So much feel through the pedal, This feels like a race car to the F1. This feels like in terms of just kind of how connected, Not as raw, and ragged, and unhinged, but just from the chassis point of view. Coming up in (indistinct) All way up the apex (indistinct). What a thing. Wow. And it's road legal. (laughs) (engine roaring) Talking of which, there is about Ray Bellm, he was to have an F1 GTR road converted. The car in question was which he then drove to Le Mans in '97. But how did that come about? Here's Dean Lanzante to explain. - It's hard to believe now, but the F1 short tail for, albeit a very short period of time. And as we know with racing, We have the short tail F1. We go to second year of short tail F1. And then the third season was a long tail. So the short tail was- - [Host] That was '97. - Exactly, '97 is when So the '95 and '96 car, you but that was it. You weren't gonna stretch So there was really And it, I know now it seems crazy. And the values weren't there so much. But McLaren had, on the of winning Le Mans, done the five LMs. Which was, when we look back on it, probably the closest thing that anyone had ever put or done something of that type. So that was what kind of triggered, well, should we- so yeah, I suppose- And there was a lot of, for that even though three And then the other two get split up. There was a lot of interest in it, even then, obviously not the values, but a lot of interest in the LM. And when Ray Bellm had with the F1, got his long tail he was kind of like, what And that was when we thought, do we put it on the road? - Yeah, was it easy to convert? - It was, regulation wasn't as clear then, so there was a Now it's much more factual when you do these single approvals of cars. It's just a lot clearer, So we kind of went in a bit blind, and thinking hopefully this And also the budgets weren't there then, because the values weren't crazy. As now, what we're doing now the values are so much higher. There's justification to absolutely a hundred percent. So then we had to be - And what sort of things obviously then, but now when you convert? Whether it's an F1 or sort I think people wanna know, &quot;to get them road legal? - To make either a race you have two main factors. One is a legality standpoint and the second one is usability. - [Host] Yeah. - So I can put something on the road completely legal with emissions and sharp edges, and all the rest of it. It doesn't legally have to But it won't work. - It doesn't legally have and be compliant, or have lift systems, or have reasonable turning circles. But so legally it will get So there are a clear two definitions that we have to work on. One is to get it legally through. The second one is the will want out of a car. - And presumably that second bit varies from customer to how extreme they still want - It does and I think with the F1, if we start with that, over an F1 GTR versus track cars. Because you have history, you have some significance So you don't wanna be going chopping up, and drilling holes, or changing something that is so special for what it is. And there is this purity about it. People are driving something that has driven down or won races. - Exactly, so there's something about it. Who's driven it in the past. There's a lot more because of what it's done. So you have to be very mindful of that. With a track car, for a that manufacturers build, they do build to a quite So it's not like an old racing car that's been beaten around. They are a good level. So, the interiors for example, and nice trim, and as a racing car, which is one purpose, which is a tool to be fast. - Yeah. Fascinating stuff, I hope you'll agree. And with that, well, there's left to do. (engine roaring) (exciting dramatic music) I had to end with driving How can you not? Amazingly this is not quite as I thought it might be. You've got all that lovely torque from the six-liter V12. Which has always made usable road car. The gear shift, obviously, you can go back down the box I was worried that somehow might have been taken outta but not a bit of it. It's amazing how you can You can drive it on the and yet also it still It feels like it can turn off on a grid. And I love that. It reminds me of sort of 1950s race cars where they would drive them, do something like Le Mans, race them, and then even drive them home again. There's something so cool about that. (stirring music) It really sums up those three letters, GTR, Gran Turismo Racing, that intoxicating mix of road and track. (engine roaring) I just feel like mimicking Ray Bellm now. Driving all the way through to France. (engine roaring) Ah, I love those downshifts. (engine roaring)