Hey there guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to be looking at Three Phase Electricity. Now, this follows on from our series on electrical engineering, the previous videos on this so far, then please do this first. Links are in the video description below. Coming up, we're going to be looking at how a simple AC generator works. Then we'll look at a single phase power, then two phase power, and then As well as how three phase Also why we don't use four, five, six phase, et cetera power. So, first of all, let's start We'll start with a single what's happening, and then we'll add in other phases until we get to three phases. Let's take a copper wire then place these coils opposite and connect the ends together Now, if we place a magnet and we start to rotate the magnet, then the magnetic field will disturb the free electrons within the copper wire, and an electrical current We've covered how the free electrons flow in a previous video on So, please check that out Links are in the video description below. As the magnet rotates, so does the polarity As you can see in the illustration, of the magnet are rotating, they pass across the coils, Notice the lines of the magnetic field are in these oval shapes on each side, and they meet through the You can think of these as and the other side being negative, and in-between these ovals, You can see that the intensity increases on either side until the center, where it is at its maximum strength, and then it decreases again until it gets back to the neutral point. So, as this field the coil will experience of the magnetic fields positive half. And during this increase, within the copper coil will be pushed and begin to move faster up until it reaches the maximum Then, as the magnetic field decreases, the flow of electrons will begin to slow all the way until it when no electrons will flow. Then comes the negative And as this passes through, it's going to pull the Again, the flow of electrons up until the maximum point And then it will decrease This is why AC electricity is Because the current of the electrons alternates in direction, just like the tide of the sea. If we were to plot on a graph, flowing during the rotation, then we would get a sine wave pattern. In this sine wave, you can see that the electrons are in the neutral zone, and through the positive half, and then it begins to decrease all the way back down to the neutral when After this comes the negative half, where the electrons speed and then they begin to slow down again until the magnet has completed one full rotation, where This complete rotation And the number of cycles per second is called the frequency, You've probably seen 50 hertz or 60 hertz written on your electrical goods. This means that the generator is completing a full rotation either 50 or 60 times per second. So the direction of the current 50 or 60 times per second also. When it is written on electrical products, this is just telling the the product should be connected to. Now, coming back to the sine this plot of current And if we connect a lamp into the circuit, we'll see that it will all the way to the peak, then it decreases in until the neutral point, where because no current is flowing. But, then it will increase as the negative half of and the electrons start in the opposite direction until again it reaches the neutral point. So, at these points in the cycle, the lamp is not producing any light. And at these points in the cycle, the lamp is not very bright, So if you're working in a room and this lighting is flickering like this, it's going to get really annoying. To improve this we can or a second phase, into the generator. And we can do this by placing the coils 120 degrees rotation from and then connect this up to another lamp. This rotation means that the coils will experience the changing intensity of the magnetic field at The first coil reaches its and as it decreases the second This has improved the lighting, but there is still a gap So we can add in a third set and this will mean that one of the lamps are almost always at so the lighting is nearly constant. There are still some small and you could keep adding to fill these gaps, but this expensive to keep So three phase became widely accepted, as its a good compromise between power provided and cost to build. Now in the real world, you're not going to use in different phases, to create lighting. The lamps in your homes but they are flickering, it's on and off so fast that unless you record the lamp in slow motion. A more practical application is the power electrical induction motors and other commercial and as three phase will provide a meaning you can pump water higher, or you can run motors Power is generally generated and transformers are used If you want to learn how transformers work, Links are in the video description below. Now one of the interesting is that you can connect all three phases and power large industrial equipment, or you can also connect and also power small electrical goods. This is generally how large distribute electricity The lift motors and air will need three phase power, but the computers and office equipment will need single phase power. So they distribute three and they draw off from this as needed. The same occurs with the distribution of electricity across a city. Houses will be connected because they do not require much power, whereas a large building will be connected to a three phase supply as they Okay guys, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope this has helped If so, then please don't forget to like, subscribe and share this video. And also follow us on Facebook, as well as our website