- The topic of compassion comes up a lot in my day-to-day at the hospital. As physicians, we have to all the time, with a patient, loved ones, in our healthcare circles. So when headlines about started popping up in my I wanted to learn more. I had to learn more. Simply put, physician-assisted suicide or assisted dying is where upon request and approval, most often terminal, patient's life through medical assistance. I've learned that this statement without context can So I found some context I didn't have to go very far. Our friends to the north, Oh Canada are at the front of this conversation. Canada is debating whether for people who want help in Around the world, countries to see how they can progress in their medical assistance Currently, there are 15 countries that in some shape or form permit medical assistance in dying. But check this out, only Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Spain the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Columbia and as of 2021, Canada, of a terminal illness diagnosis And overwhelmingly, of physicians being able to Six in 10 Canadians support MAID however, only three in 10 of mental health exclusion. But as the conversation patient autonomy and consent unfolds, how do we ethically when it is their time to die and if the safeguards currently in place are enough to keep up with regulating this practice? (gentle music) When talking about this subject, you might hear terms thrown physician-assisted physician aid-in-dying, and medical assistance in dying or MAID. They all refer to the but it might be helpful to clear up what exactly assisted dying - When I'm talking about assisted dying, I'm talking about the end-of-life care that's who safely and effectively in specifically outlined and including the explicit Our law in Canada is very clear. You know, a person needs to have a serious and incurable illness. They're already in an advanced and that they're suffering intolerably in a way that they determine themselves. So all of that makes up a grievous and irremediable condition. - In Canada, there are two that fall under the umbrella of MAID, euthanasia and assisted With euthanasia, after a person of requesting and found a prescription will be administered by a physician through an IV. Assisted suicide, however, to the patient and they through a drink. But just know that there that were self-administered If this is all sounding it's because it is. There are safeguards a person's eligibility to receive MAID and they have to meet certain criteria. - They need, in terms of eligibility, they need to be over 18 years of age. They need to be eligible for Canadian government-funded healthcare. So you can't come from the They need to make what we So there's no sense of It's the patient who's asking for it and the patient who wants it. They need to have what we call a grievous and irremediable condition. On top of that they need to make this request. They understand what's wrong, they understand their treatment options, and they can reason those And, of course, they need and capable decision A patient then has a process where they need to make a written request. These are the safeguards we include that the request must be it must be dated, it must be witnessed. And for patients who are who are not dying, you might say, there is an additional And just very briefly, they include that the assessment period for their eligibility has There needs to be a person with expertise brought into the assessment. If it's not one of the assessors, then a consultant who has that's causing the patient's suffering, they need to give their And all the assessors need Patient needs to be made all the reasonably available that might reduce their suffering. They need to be offered And they need to give what to accepting those resources and services. - These criteria or safeguards of the discussion but not just in Canada. Here in the US we've had our with physician-assisted suicide. In the mid 1990s, Dr. Jack Kevorkian sparked international headlines when he was convicted of murder after providing to over 100 patients. It wasn't until 1997 that permitting patients the right to assisted dying. And then it wasn't until 2006 that the United States Supreme Court would vote to uphold Oregon's Eventually, Dr. Kevorkian but was banned from providing PAS. And now today, 10 states have legalized some form of MAID. - Jack Kevorkian was purposeful You know, he, rather than working within the system to change that law, he chose to challenge And that's not something I think what we've seen in about the topic. We've seen a growing Certainly the national before our law changed to during the first five years And in every year since our amendment that extended eligibility we see consistent strong support for assisted dying in Canada and that continues to this day. - That support has only since Canada legalized MAID in 2016, but to patients that were terminally ill and within six months of dying. In 2021, there were over in Canada accounting That's a sharp increase from 2020, approximately 32% more cases. In total over 31,000 medical assistance in dying since 2016. In 2021, Canada dropped the 2% of the acted upon MAID requests in 2021 were non-terminal. That same year, Canada explicitly exclusively from intolerable as their only underlying illness from requesting and receiving MAID. That exclusion was set to expire in 2023, but was then delayed for one - I think the best way to that exists is between the patient's right to make about their own care, and society's need or real responsibility to protect those who might And I think there's between those two, and sometimes there is. But I actually don't believe between the two. I think that a rigorous with careful safeguards can And that's I think what - I must say, I'm supportive I've been directly involved, but I'm a former medical social worker, as well as being a bioethicist. And I had grave doubts as to whether we could these complex issues related to social determinants of people with mental health disorders, whether we could really and be ethical about it. I had great worry and others didn't. But here we are. - We discuss ethics a Not surprising. In the US the PAS laws with their own set of safeguards. Those laws uniformly deny requests for anyone who isn't terminal. However, in Canada, that's not the case. With the mental health some healthcare professionals - But I must also say, you know, people don't always fully understand what it would be like to have And they often see people, anyone with a mental health disorder as being sort of globally And that's not accurate either at all. But the heart of the ethical challenge is can we say that the kind of suffering that comes forward when someone is facing an aggressive malignancy that, that is fundamentally different than the type of suffering that someone has 25 years into a mental illness where they are considered And, you know, I do see a to say one's acceptable and one's not. And also the system is you meet with a doctor, he or she interviews you extensively, and their determination is a definite no, there is nothing in Canadian law that says you can't go to the next doctor, and the next, and the next, and you can keep shopping - While the Canadians await to sunset, support for When Canada removed the in 2021, 60% of Canadians However, only 31% said they supported restoring mental health as the sole reason for requesting MAID. But as Canada continues there are concerns that could encompass vulnerable populations, such as those looking to escape poverty, all of which would fall well - I mean, I think what's happening, and I don't necessarily love this, I think medical assistance in dying is becoming greatly integrated in a general sense. And I think within I think we actually have by considering medical assistance in dying as a treatment option And I think what's rather than seeing it as as a last resort, calling has kind of normalized it, I think, probably a little too much. I don't say this with pride, but I say that as a experienced MAID directly some of the most compassionate measures that I've ever seen actually But as a social institution You know, it's a much tougher question. - Compassion is really about the ability to see suffering in someone else, but not just to see it, but to actually have the desire So it's an ability to and the desire to change that for them. And I think that's a lot of We all said interesting things when we went to our about why we wanted to be doctors. But, you know, in essence, I think the vast majority of 'cause they wanna help people. And I think this work is exactly that. I mean, drilled down to its essence, I think offering assisted is helping patients. I think that's how they see it. I think they see it as compassionate care. (air swooshes) - There's a lot more to healthcare than just looking at a textbook A lot of it, if not the majority of it, is understanding the human element. And that involves understanding cultural, religious, especially in times that like death and dying. But I think these conversations some optimism, and some (air swooshes) Before you go, we want That's what motivates us. Every year PBS Digital helping us understand and what you wanna see more of, so that we can go and make it. You also get to vote on new show ideas. So it would be awesome if Vital and you had your voice heard in the polls. There's a link in the description. Thanks in advance. And that's it for this episode of Vitals. Please share your thoughts, your comments, any personal stories you may have. This is a heavy topic, and we want to hear from you. Until next time.