- This episode of Because Science is sponsored by LightStream. You don't actually want What would you do if you Most of the responses I've heard to that question are less than heroic. Many of them come down you shouldn't be or borrowing Of course, you could use the power of invisibility for good. It is one of the fundamental hero powers. But thinking about the scientific I don't think invisibility Like super strength and super speed, humans have fantasized about the power of invisibility for a long time. Suddenly disappearing is the subject of great novels like The the 1933 movie of the same name, and of course the masterpiece Hollow Man starring Kevin Bacon. Many of these stories have considered the consequences of turning invisible, but I think that science So why wouldn't you want First, what is invisibility? Well, whether the source of the power is magical or sciencey, to make something invisible the way that something Everything that you can elementary particles that and electromagnetic radiation. Those photons of light are and they enter our eyes visual information based on the like frequency and phase. Now, everything that you can see, then, therefore is either emitting or is bouncing photons off So to make yourself invisible, then, you have to change these paths. However your powers worked, they would have to redirect photons so that they would either go around you or an object so that those or an object and make it into your eyes, or the photons would kind of like you were transparent. Or a third option is what is behind you in front kind of like how Predator's But I don't think that this is what we consider classic invisibility. Yeah, sorry, dude. Yeah, I don't know. Oh, heads up! How invisibility might actually work is the first real problem with this power. The easiest way to make yourself invisible would be to reroute so that they didn't bounce off of you and into other people's eyes, but if you were doing this successfully, no photons would be entering your eyes to give your brain visual information, and you would be blind. You might be invisible to but they would be invisible to you too. Now, there is a solution The human eye is an incredibly Experiments have shown the impact of a single photon But that doesn't mean we see Reportedly, it's like a without actually seeing it. So to see an image, we hitting the backs of our eyes, especially considering that that enter the front don't make They just bounce around So to be both invisible and able to see, you would not only have to you would have to route a lot Which would illuminate them. Apparently this is what but if you did this, your eyes would be visible and that is weird. And gross. And doesn't really fit with and it would give you away pretty quickly. Get outta here, Kevin! Cut loose, man! Even if you weren't blind, even if you weren't just a another reason you wouldn't want the power of invisibility is that you If you can make yourself invisible by rerouting photons around yourself, you'd probably want to do better yet, at your skin, a large volume around you invisible, you might start to make objects around you look weird enough to give you away. But if just your physical you also wouldn't want any interacting with it to This would immediately limit your powers by making it impossible when it was either snowing or raining, and you wouldn't be able to because the dust and debris would also give away your shape. And in this conception of invisibility, you would have to be naked. So to be truly invisible, if you wanted to sneak around anywhere, you would have to be cold But at least you'd be invisible, right? Well, that depends on Every second, the average human radiates 100 joules worth of heat energy out into the universe in all directions. Anything with a temperature does this. And so you are always emitting Now, I know we don't like we do visible light, but When something is red hot, it is radiating enough heat energy that its wavelengths of infrared light are being pushed up into red light. Visible light. It's all on the same spectrum. And so even if you were invisible to people looking for anyone that was looking could see you just as easily as if you were not invisible at all. Heads up! Ha ha, missed me by six degrees. Kevin! No! So while classic invisibility anyone with something as simple as a thermal camera This wasn't a problem back in 1933, when The Invisible Man movie came out, but today we have the almost impossible to sneak of the places that you would Anyone with a motion or thermal camera, the most common security could pick you up easily. Which would be good, because if you were invisible, I know. You don't have to say it. We all know. Even if you weren't blind, even if you didn't have to be naked, even if you were somehow you still wouldn't want invisibility, because of your own brain. I want you to try something with me, okay? Close your eyes, it'll be fine. Close your eyes, and Now extend the pointer finger on that arm, and now bring the tip of your finger to touch the tip of your nose. Okay, now open your eyes. Easy, right? Most people can get within 20 millimeters of their nose first try, no problem. But how can we do this? How are we able to position something accurately in space that we cannot see? Well, it is thanks to a sense that we have but you may not have heard It is our body's movement sense. It's how our brains know how our limbs are positioned in space Without proprioception, we without looking where our We wouldn't be able to type And we wouldn't even be able to walk without watching our feet on the ground. We wouldn't be able to dance either. I'm sorry. Proprioception relies on information that your body is constantly generating. Your inner ear tells your brain how your body is moving Your muscles and your ligaments tell your brain how your relative to the rest of your body. All of this information with visual information of where you are and how you are moving. Or not. Incredibly smart boy and once told a story of just how to our everyday lives The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat, which I highly recommend. In it, he describes a patient, Christina, who actually lost her movement sense, thanks to a viral infection in her spine. After that, she wasn't able to walk, she wasn't able to control and she couldn't manipulate Now, Christina made a partial recovery, but only because she on visual information and For example, she was able to but when she did so, she that it hurt her hands As Oliver Sacks put it, Christina was able to just not a normal one. The sense of your own body, combined with visual information, is critical to normal functioning. So now imagine what it to be classically invisible. That is invisible but It would be the other version Think of how hard it would be to walk down a flight of stairs if you You could only feel where they were. Imagine how hard it would be to manipulate and grasp objects with zero visual input. There we go. It's not impossible, but Being invisible would Just walking down the No, people wouldn't be able but you wouldn't be able to see where your body was in space either. And so you'd be stumbling down the street, bumping into other people and obstacles, cold and confused all the while. It would be miserable. So why wouldn't you want the classic superpower of invisibility? Well, it wouldn't make you Quite the contrary. You would either be blind or You would be cold and naked. You would be completely visible to anyone with widely available thermal tech. And without the visual along with your movement sense to make movement through life doing anything while invisible would be, at best, frustrating and, If you really could go out of sight, it would drive you out of your mind. Because science. Ow! Dang it, Kevin, you kicked and I tripped over them! Basically, to make invisibility work, you have to do a lot of weird stuff. You could route photons into your eyes and then out of your eyes after they bounced off of your eyes, or you could make yourself from the electromagnetic spectrum, but then you'd fall through the earth and stuff. So you'd have to jump Regardless, classic is as cool, or nearly as cool, if you think about it scientifically. Although some have thought like Hollow Man, where he so it's hard to sleep, but why can't we see his eyeballs then? See? Same problem. That's... That's new. Hm. Hey, when do you want to start paying less interest on How about today, with a credit card consolidation LightStream rewards consumers with a great interest rate and no fees. You can get a credit from 5.89% APR with autopay. The application's 100% online, and you can even get You could also save thousands On top of LightStream's already low rates, the only way to get this fantastic additional interest rate discount is to go to LightStream.com/science. That's L-I-G-H-T-S-T-R-E-A-M.com/science. In case you can't spell. Subject to credit approval. Rate includes 0.5% only when you select autopay Terms and conditions apply, and offers are subject Visit LifeStream.com for about limits on LightStream Thank you so much for watching, David. If you want more Because Science, like and subscribe wherever you are. If you're on Facebook, like, make sure to like and hit because we get up to a lot of weird, fun, geeky stuff on this channel. If you want more of at ProjectAlpha.com, you can get this show two days and you can get a geeky debate show that I do with my friend Dan If you want to follow me and Because Science on Bye.