Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of this time we're having with lots of royal pageantry Thanks for joining us. This time we'll see and the new London... Enjoy some of the city's Hop a double-decker bus to Christopher Wren's Shop for a jaunty hat... Check out the vibrant scene Ponder some of England's in Westminster Abbey... Discover treasures And straddle the zero meridian But first, we're checking out the changing of the guard Beautiful weather, and a huge excited crowd. The changing of the guard is a fine introduction While no longer ruling London is still a capital This time-honored ritual And while you have or very early to actually see I get a kick out of watching every tourist in London in one place at the same time. Today, England's Royal family But for centuries, they lived where, in the 11th century, built the first palace Over the centuries, to become this building and an icon of modern democracy. Eventually, representatives of gathered here They began meeting independently And to this day, in the houses of Parliament. Visitors are welcome to queue up at the uppity House of Lords or the rowdier House of Commons Like so much of the most medieval-looking this is actually It's neo-Gothic, built in All across Europe, against the Neoclassical which challenged royalty With this less cerebral, Victorian England reaffirmed People call but it's actually Ben is the 13-ton bell Here's a fun way to make Hi, Jan. Audio post card from London. [ Bell ringing ] [ Chuckles ] An enormous Royal Palace once stretched to Trafalgar Square While the palace is long gone, Today Britain's The British Empire, ruled nearly a quarter was managed from here. And a Whitehall walk of England's proud Stately reliefs seem to celebrate the empire [ Shouts command ] [ Men shouting ] As it has for centuries, the Royal Horse Guard still And if you're here you'll enjoy the ritual Prime ministers, have long lived Here, Churchill's wrapped he wore as he led Britain through the dark days Duck under sand bags and descend into This was the secret of the British government's in the desperate Shut down after victory in 1945 it's open today for visitors to explore. Audio guides give it meaning. Man: On the morning the day after V-J day, the map officers switched out the lights for and went home. And that's the way Steves: You'll see the room famously took his short naps. In this room, the progress of the entire war as day-by-day movement of troops and convoys was charted. And this room was from where Churchill maneuvered The adjacent museum introduces It brings the colorful statesman complete with his trademark cognac -- he loved his drink -- and famous hat. You'll get a taste of Winston's wit, work ethic, even the industry of kitschy Back out on Whitehall, there are monuments to other and at the end of the street is a memorial to the greatest The one-armed, one-eyed, Admiral Horatio Nelson The year was 1805. Napoleon, with his mighty army, was poised just on the other preparing to invade. Meanwhile, a thousand miles off of the coast of Spain, Admiral Nelson defeated at the battle of Trafalgar. Because Britannia ruled Napoleon was stopped. Bronze battle reliefs, made of melted down decorate the column. These huggable lions Trafalgar Square marks Big Ben is just a short walk Buckingham Palace -- SoHo, where all just six blocks over there. And the National Gallery has the greatest collection of Right there is a church that's famous for and the charity work it does As big as it is, And once you're oriented, riding its double-decker buses For me, enjoying the view is one of the great treats We're entering the one-square-mile district While only a few thousand people its nine-to-five crowd numbers This is Britain's Wall Street, thriving with big time commerce and packed with banks. &quot;The City&quot; is also packed This monument commemorates which started here and burned These reliefs show, in heroic terms, determined to rebuild. The great architect was chosen to spearhead And the city that rose from was decorated of some 50 churches. Christopher Wren the rest of his life, The centerpiece -- this mighty Today, it's the symbol Its rise from the great fire and of London's survival The church is one Wren accentuated by the lack of decoration. Notice the simple ceiling and the clear glass Today, only the west end keeps Wren's original vision. In the 1800s, Queen Victoria &quot;dim, dingy, and ungodly,&quot; so the east end of the church was then slathered beautiful Victorian bling. While the church's survival was almost miraculous, the apse of the church and was destroyed. Today, it's rebuilt as to honor our nation's to the defense of Britain. We see Jesus, Mary, and George Washington. The American iconography and eagles. And behind birds and plants it's a U.S. Rocket, circa 1958, The British are grateful The roll of honor lists the based in Britain Climbing the dome is like climbing a 30-story building And the reward, a commanding view of London. Christopher Wren spent working on St. Paul's. At age 75, he got to see his son with this golden cross. London has thriving Oxford street is lined It's fun to feel the energy And Piccadilly, the city's has a magnetic attraction With its tipsy statue of Eros in the center, this is where worlds fan out in all directions. While Piccadilly seems tacky, just a few steps away is a more And to enjoy this, and fellow tour guide, This is a lovely street if you want to all the big Jermyn Street, right? It is, yes. Named after Henry Jermyn, who And it's full of lots very individual, It's really worth even if you haven't to buy all the wonderful Just if you want it gives you a little elegant And a lovely flavor, yes. We're walking past Swaine, And this is where members buy their umbrellas, Whips? Yes, of course. Steves: Bates Hats still sells as it has for a century. This is Bates, one of the lovely old shops And there's some This is a lovely top hat That's the sort of thing if you were going But it's going So what would this cost me? About PS330. It's beautifully made. Just under $500. Nice, a top hat Lonsdale: Now, the hats hanging on the wall here, and they're the sort of thing in summertime, when you're Okay. You know, traditional the crack of leather sitting on the village green This is a bowler hat. Years ago, this is what you It was a standard item If you worked in a financial in the oldest part of London, If you were a banker, Oh, definitely, Mm, more laurel and hardy, [ Laughing ] A little more Steves: Simply wandering around and people come out to play SoHo is particularly lively. The people watching And talk about variety. Steves: This is thriving Yes, we're in SoHo. It's full of excellent It's a big center for media, there's a big gay Always humming, One of the marvelous is that it's such a mix. We used to have an enormous and as a result, lots of different This part of London is the part Okay, so, dim sum, Definitely. And of course, There are at least 30 theaters from this spot, Musical, comedy, We're staying on a delightful in South Kensington. Hotels in London are expensive. Choose carefully. In my London guidebook, I recommend the family-run It has a friendly staff, and my room provides To stretch my budget, especially important here I stock it with a few groceries. The conservatory has And a genteel breakfast here is a fine way to start A short taxi ride away This most historic church is where kings and queens since 1066. While it was first built much of what we see today When there's a royal wedding, amid all this splendor, thousands of Britain's under these graceful The centerpiece is the tomb who founded the abbey. And surrounding Edward are the tombs of 29 This is the tomb Her royal orb symbolizes she was queen of The abbey is filled of people who put saints, musicians, scientists, For lovers of strolling through poets' corner can be a pilgrimage in itself. King Henry VII's Lady Chapel, with its colorful windows has the festive air The elaborate ceiling is a style that capped At the far end, a wall marks the Royal It honors the fighter pilots who died defending Britain With saints in stained glass, heroes in carved stone, and the remains of England's under the floor stones, Westminster Abbey and the religious London's subway, is one of this planet's and it's easy to master. To avoid slow-moving buy your Tube pass Then simply swipe yourself until your prepaid account Follow signs Visualize the layout lines are labeled north, Each train line and, therefore, two platforms. Signs list the line, direction, and stops served Because some tracks signboards announce and how many minutes Final destinations are displayed And always... Man over pa: Once onboard, Confused? Many of the locals Our stop is King's Cross. Helpful signs show the best saving lots of walking. The British Library's The British Library The statue of Isaac Newton measuring the immensity symbolizes to preserve the record of man's The massive building fills 180 miles of shelving For sightseers, the Treasures Room. It showcases early gospels the first complete written in Greek from Illuminated manuscripts with pages lovingly some of the finest art And the Gutenberg Bible Gutenberg's revolutionary made printing affordable. By bringing information this innovation helped power The Magna Carta from 1215 documents the first steps rather than kings. And the king was forced Cases are dedicated to the titans showing, for instance, early You'll see precious a handwritten score a Beethoven work tracing and handwritten Beatles lyrics. Ponder the evolution of maps. In 1350, this view came By 1550, with this, you could plan your next trip London is growing, and its underground Historically, most London within its downtown circle line. But there's a new Tube network and it's clear London Each morning, a thunderous surges into a district Once a gritty industrial harbor, then a neglected no-man's-land, today the Docklands It fills a peninsula created with gleaming skyscrapers springing out of Canary Wharf Tower is one of the mightiest skyscrapers Workers enjoy good and plenty of green spaces The entire ensemble sits upon a vast underground In the 1700s, the Thames with shipping while this end of town with the stinky industries -- and so on -- just downwind from In order to relieve all the congestion they decided to replace with what became The Docklands organized shipping Evoking the days when Britannia the old West India But rather than trading today, they house the Museum and a row of happening London's Docklands in order to fully experience you often need to get out and explore its modern Further down the River Thames Since many of and it's cheap to get here it makes for a great While still well within Greenwich feels like Visitors enjoy and fascinating museums. Tudor kings, who ruled in favored their palace Henry VIII was born here. Later kings commissioned Inigo Jones to beautify the town and palace. Old Royal Naval College founded by King William to care for naval officers. Today, the Navy's gone and the lavish place Originally intended as a dining hall this sumptuously decorated room one of the largest painted 112 feet long. It's a big propaganda scene, glorifying the building's and their defeat of the French. Under his foot, William's with a broken sword -- He's handing a red cap, to a woman holding symbolizing Europe. Another woman hands him a sign of peace. The message -- which you can see with the help of King William has granted Europe A stately park turns into an inviting people zone. From its bluff, visitors enjoy sweeping views of Greenwich, and the distant London skyline. Crowning the hill founded in the late 1600s Its purpose -- by more accurately charting Visitors gain an appreciation of how exciting and timekeeping led to Britain's For ships to know mariners needed to know from a reference point With this, they could solve &quot;the problem of longitude.&quot; After a huge effort, in 1760, John Harrison built this clock And by 1772, this fine and functioned Critical because pendulums Along with marking global time, Greenwich marks Outside the observatory, visitors line up to grab a photo to be at precisely with one foot and the other in the west. A trip to London how this city truly is where I hope you've had a grand visit This is one city that's coming back to again and again. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, Yeah! What's not to like about that? Very dashing, huh? Not quite dashing is the word. Woman: See you at the next stop. Man: Oh, he's --