Twelve thousand years ago, He left the nomadic life Before long, he would invent farming, cattle raising, irrigation, architecture, medicine, and religion. On his way, Property ownership Livestock spread deadly diseases. Overpopulation caused starvation He built cities and imagined a complex, He communicated over great distances, In 8,000 years, went from three million Man built society as we know it today. Soon, he would no longer be the same man. He became a modern man. This is the account leading through the ages to our time. The history of our evolution as a result of a rapid climate change Global warming wrought immense changes. In a few dozen centuries, two-thirds of the polar ice cap large sheets of ice broke off, Little by little, as we know them today. In some regions, torrential rains In others, drought parched the land, The Ice Age was over. Humans could now embark The pioneers of this transformation today's Near East. Twelve thousand years ago, three to three million men and women They were nomads. They lived in wide open spaces This clan was one of the first They made them into dogs. However, another change The strange idea had taken hold. Stone teepees They'd never seen anything like it. Aar was their leader. He was listened to Ashaa, our second companion, These nomads didn't know a revolutionary invention, a new way of life Humans had decided to settle and instead, radiate out from a center, Where were they? What were these stones for? They had water in them and food. Whatever had possessed them Why build structures They had a tree in the middle They were doing what spiders do. [Nomadic spoken audio] Warm outside and cool inside, as was the smell along with the reassuring aroma There was a lot of food. Not being on the move when nature stopped providing. Sedentary people They gathered berries and grain. They didn't know wild plants Their way of life added a new dimension a dimension unknown to nomads. The sense of ownership. For nomads, the riches of the earth but sedentary people Their survival and this dependency created the fear [Nomadic spoken audio] For nomads, strangers Even when food was scarce, survival dictated For the sedentary man, [Nomadic spoken audio] The kind of Aar entered the village naturally and without guile, but those who lived there These people their houses, their stone containers, [Nomadic spoken audio] Aar and his clan Nomads who encountered other humans [Nomadic spoken audio] These people even felt the land where our ancestors had walked. [Nomadic spoken audio] Aar's clan had come in peace, They liked this place. We're going to stay [Nomadic spoken audio] What had made people settle? Perhaps their alliance and serials To be eaten, This required two large, heavy stones. Perhaps they'd stop roaming This is what had changed them. At day's end, nomads watch the sunset while the sedentary people True, the nomadic life had its drawbacks. As a pregnant woman, you're only too well. One was that they seldom When nature was stingy, they went hungry. [Nomadic spoken audio] Ashaa could no longer digest She needed meat to regain her strength, but there was no dried meat left. Whenever there was a problem, Aka, The others didn't dare. [Nomadic spoken audio] It was too late to hunt. Why should they when there was so much food Aar helped himself. He probably did not know He simply took what he needed. The villagers lived mostly the heavy tools used to prepare that had become central to their survival. Among nomadic peoples, but the group. Settlers made the family unit the norm, However, they had a problem. Tiny animals coveted their provisions. At that time, the settlers Many did not yet have dogs. Their domestication occurred far In Eastern Europe and China, but also for protection, the elimination of food waste The dog benefited [Nomadic spoken audio] It did not take the villagers long [Nomadic spoken audio] That night, it suddenly seemed [Nomadic spoken audio] They brought stone bowls but these were not gifts. They wanted the dog in return. Aar refused the barter. Then they tried to win them over by offering to share Ashaa had a bad feeling. Aar wondered whether The two groups were too different The cooked grain was mushy and tasteless. Aar would have preferred roasting For the one-eyed woman who had no teeth, [Nomadic spoken audio] Ourham, the village leader had realized that were eating his grain. To get him, but Aar would have none of it. [Nomadic spoken audio] He would keep his dog. [Nomadic spoken audio] As sedentary people accumulated things, They realized to get whatever they wanted. This concept was foreign to nomads. A nomad's life consisted His existence was ruled His beliefs were inextricably linked to these forces [Nomadic spoken audio] Those who had chosen a sedentary life but being organized enabled them to minimize the effects and to protect themselves, The stone tepees withstood This was not the case with skin teepees. Nomads knew What was there yesterday This uncertainty was precisely what sedentary people They always looked for ways The villagers offered [Nomadic spoken audio] Faced with the chaos of life, organized, and stable. Even though nomads to a life of work, security had tremendous seductive power. The villagers freed up The one who has always slept finds sleep elusive in confined spaces. One night Aka got used but Ashaa was so wasted and weak Aka fed her by chewing the bread first. Nomads adapted to their environment. Sedentary people adapted their environment A few days went by and Aar The villagers, who initially had pretended were soon won over by their guests. A friendship was struck. Ourham still wanted Aar's dog, Ashaa gave birth to a little girl. [Nomadic spoken audio] Like Aar's first woman, She was no longer breathing. She had joined the ancestors One Gaia girl child had left, another had arrived These nomads believed in Gaia, Gaia would provide them what they needed. At that time, it is possible the concept of fatherhood. They may not have known that the children were also part of them. The nomads left the village Aar gave his best dog to Ourham He also left Ashaa's daughter behind. It was the only way she would survive. Gaia would survive through her. [Nomadic spoken audio] Attracted by its comfort and security, most nomads leaving in our genes traces wanderlust, and love of discovery. Sedentaryness profoundly propelling man The gathering of wild berries and cereals Wheat and barley in the Fertile Crescent would extend Rice and millet in China, corn, potatoes, More or less consciously, by choosing the seeds To cultivate the land, The landscape became more human. It was 7,500 years before Christ The hamlet had mushroomed into a village with greater security More children were being born More people, more homes, Increasingly, the round houses, were being replaced that could be enlarged Ooki's amulet told him that he was Ooki had been in love with Nekee He wanted to make her his wife. Here you go. The village now boasted where the bodies This place perpetuated their memory. To remember the dead, and painted their faces In this way, they knew where Ooki was not Oukou of the Belouta family The Beloutas were an important family. Oukou used his family's name What happened that day Nekee's father would choose a husband based on the interests of the family However, the fight scared Ooki and he decided to request permission By this time, the villagers After the hunt, they would bring young animals Young wild boars, mountain goats, to have a reserve of fresh meat These animals are quite rare, but Ooki decided to give to Nekee's father as an engagement gift. Oukou's family with a gift of two extremely rare animals. Cats were attracted to the villagers They had quickly proven their worth. [Nomadic spoken audio] Having possessions had an impact The poorer you were, Competition between humans was changing. Survival of the fittest Ooki loved Nekee and Nekee He could not go against village law It would be an offense to Oukou, However, Ooki decided to start a family Ooki. They had their lives ahead of them, They felt they were in paradise. [Nomadic spoken audio] Nekee was getting cold, First, he had to make a fire It was risky, but he had no choice. Of course, Oukou His powerful family and determination made him a formidable, They had destroyed Ooki's body. He was barely breathing. With each breath, At that time, humans understood and they would grow shoots They even knew how and improve their crops. Upon seeing Nekee, Ooki's father feared that something terrible Ooki's father and brother but Oukou had covered his tracks well. Days went by, He held on thanks he reached out to touch. He saw that groan every time They gave him hope. They represented life. The rivalry between Ooki and Oukou had escalated into a feud It would divide the village. Man had long known of the powers but surgery was still in its infancy. Trepidation had only recently The skull was opened up to cure traumas, Conflicts that were easily resolved could threaten The feud heated up. Some villages siding with Ooki, No resolution was in sight. The hole in Ooki's skull had released He would survive, but as a parasite, There had been no rain that year. The soil was barren Oddly enough, at that time, how essential water and growth of plants. Nobody had made a direct connection A connection had, however, Ooki had defied the spirits, Even his father blamed him. Oooki spent his days observing nature, His body was weak, Suddenly, an idea came to him. An idea, even a simple one, Ooki's muddy hand making a furrow water trickling, seeds sprouting, Water was the secret of life. It had always been there but they hadn't realized it. Irrigation was born. Ooki's father and brother They humored him and spared no effort. Understanding would greatly strengthen Well irrigated crops and the years of scarcity Ooki was ecstatic. He felt he had robbed the heavens He was stronger than nature, Oukou came to spy, trying to figure out while his were barren. He still believed Ooki was cursed. [Nomadic spoken audio] Irrigation had made all the difference. The fields were producing much more, in fact, than they needed. They had a production surplus It was a form of wealth over those who were lacking. [Nomadic spoken audio] Nekee's father now came with gifts Trading, brought people together Ooki and his family, had become the most powerful and However, for what they did to him. He would never sell them so much Wealth could therefore become By observing the young boars Ooki had another stroke of inspiration. If he kept the females and males together, His discovery would quickly make its way Ooki. Ooki still loved Nekee. He'd never stopped loving her. [Nomadic spoken audio] However, he had given up hope [Nomadic spoken audio] She finally convinced him to relent. Ooki didn't want to deprive her of food She had nothing to do with it. He eventually forgave Oukou With farming, animal breeding, man could now legitimately say over the living world. He had overcome the elements. His newfound power filled him He began to think In fact, to represent his deities, he replaced the images Ooki even found himself a woman The Gaia lineage would continue. The trading of goods soon led to the Information and innovations and human evolution would accelerate. After farming, animal husbandry After the wolf became dog, While sheep and goats were domesticated the boar became the pig Hens were domesticated in Pakistan, Horses between Europe and Central Asia, Even insects, The domestication of animals but it also brought with it Terrible hardships awaited mankind. It was 3,500 years before Christ. The village had grown into a town Since travelers had introduced work had become easier. People had trades, stonecutters, masons, Not full-time trades though, because everyone still worked There were many families, A council of experienced men and took all major decisions Waka and Uhru were brothers, one of the oldest in the town. Waka, the elder of the two, These brothers were well respected Everybody now had their own field, They all had possessions Owning also meant defending. The tanner's goats had spent the night Needless to say, they destroyed his crops. [Nomadic spoken audio] In such cases, The council made its rulings and generally according to custom. An exchange of goods These collegial arrangements However, the misfortunes soon would completely destroy that balance, thanks to Uhru Ike was the son of Waka, The family had fields and goats, but his father's first job The first metals and their strength fascinated humans. Ike brought ore back ore found in its natural state Waka would melt and mould them The tools made from these metals [Nomadic spoken audio] Lately, Ike's mother No one had any idea that these Every week, a goat was slaughtered This was Ike's job, and he hated it. He never knew which one to kill. Little did he know he was treading The half-dead goat was a sign Due to the concentration of men, there was also an exponential increase Ike's mother The red rash Had a very high fever Uhru, Ike's uncle was a healer. He had mastered the science of plants and concocted potions There had always but this was a mysterious It was more dangerous, more devastating. Uhru tried to be reassuring. He cared about his reputation His power as a healer would prevail. Uhru loved gifts. He never hesitated He should have refused the reward but his greed was too great. [Nomadic spoken audio] Wild pigs, sheep, and cattle were sick. The villagers could not have anticipated they had created conditions of these illnesses to humans. [Nomadic spoken audio] Initially, no one made the connection, In those days, diseases such as measles, were all transmitted Ike's mother was dying. Her whole body was wracked with pain There was nothing they could do. By that time, funeral customs had changed, The bodies of the deceased testimony to the greater importance All family members, including Uhru, Within a few days, The potter's whole family suddenly died. There were no more entire families until there was nobody The wise men of the council decided to put all the corpses keep the smell of death away. The council had been gathered but no one, not even the shaman, Idru, How could they have known? Their only clue was the skin rash, With Uhru leading the way, everyone was summoned If they bore the blotches, Apparently, Those who were infected developed a rash. Now, no one lucky victim [Nomadic spoken audio] Uhru had identified the sign and established himself They had to listen to him Every person marked Even Uhru's brother was forced to leave. [Nomadic spoken audio] Faced with plagues, or viruses blamed invisible forces. Almost overnight, that of chief. He became Having banished his brother, who decided for all the others. He alone headed the Gaia lineage. Who better than Idru, the shaman, The chief had identified evil, Before long, Uhru believed Without knowing it, he made a wise move which stopped He ordered They hailed their chief and for saving them. At last, Uhru's power, intelligence, The hunt In his new position of power, Uhru knew he needed armed men All houses were searched, Those bearing the telltale rash and their homes marked with lime. [Nomadic spoken audio] A chief who made good decisions received thanks in the form of gifts. Uhru became richer. His prestige among the villagers soared, The band of outcasts its members dying one after another. Epidemics share certain characteristics. They spread rapidly Infection doesn't always mean The surviving outcasts realized The plague was leaving their bodies. [Nomadic spoken audio] They had been spared. [Nomadic spoken audio] Only three of them had survived. After a few weeks of walking, These people had come They too had been stricken and many of their men had died. All these women without men with great generosity. Ike and the other two survivors were surprised to see a woman made the major decisions. Where they came from, This was new behavior. From the high Anatolian plateaus, two major discoveries, the horse, Now stood before Ike, The women had not tamed Ike was smitten with Kelee. She brought out in him a feeling He wanted to sing, to dance, to take her in his arms, The second discovery and later the lives of all men. It was a metal as hard as rock, How would they made it? Waka was dying to know Back in the town, propelling Urhu to even greater power. He was now the keeper of the belongings including his brother, Waka. These things were of no use Urhu brother's house held many treasures. Urhu helped himself. Soon all the belongings left in the deserted houses Urhu proclaimed They soon became his property, but this was more than one man needed. Idru was not pleased. Urhu had to make the shaman a true ally, The chief began to share thereby creating an elite, Bronze, a remarkable metal. The Anatolian blacksmiths The tattooed woman who had the power Copper and pewter mixed together It was simple, Bronze would make much stronger They'd increase the productivity Bronze would also be used Who had had the idea? How many alloys had they tried In the town, everything had changed, His status now required that Urhu live the former meeting house. He had ordered that statues Urhu was no longer like other men. He no longer worked in the fields As chief, he couldn't debase himself It was reasonable that he should be supported All citizens were therefore required tax of sorts. Not everyone was happy with his practice, A new form of organization Urhu was being kept Part of the fruit of the villagers' labors who in turn shared it In the chief's intimate circle, This brought greed and power struggles. Kelee had changed Ike. Love had made a man of him [Nomadic spoken audio] With her, he had discovered the speed, This incredible animal would change man's perception Though curiously, at that time, no one had actually It would take another 2,000 years [Nomadic spoken audio] Completely cured and armed Ike and Waka decided to return home. Discontent was brewing in their town. Urhu had become a despot This homecoming had not been expected. Waka had been one More importantly, [Nomadic spoken audio] Urhu wanted to know what his brother had brought him What kind of honor was this? [Nomadic spoken audio] Where were the riches? How did his brother plan to reward him Power begat power. Ownership called for more wealth, Idru realized What could he do? Ike's most precious treasure but his knowledge of bronze When power becomes abusive and the balance between what it gives power is doomed. When a powerful man and ignores the needs of those he is doomed. Urhu had gone too far, Urhu was doomed. [Nomadic spoken audio] Urhu was lost. He was willing rather than hand over his power. [Nomadic spoken audio] Idru, the shaman had betrayed him. The love of ownership, the love of power, and the fear of losing it, created man's vanity, Waka decided that Ike should reign. Ike would guide his people in the Ike and Kelee Chieftainships would soon Enlightened monarchs would understand that their power lay That riches were to be distributed To achieve greater wealth and looking for it elsewhere, In the following 2,000 years, great and powerful cities in Asia, the Middle East, The richer agglomerations They would take up the first arms, and federate them. This was how cities came about. The first such city and give rise It was the year 2,500 This is Tobar, Since his childhood, Tobar had dreamt He was spellbound. The size of the buildings, The gods? As soon as they appeared, cities held For the first time peoples of various origins and different languages Where were all these people going? They were passing each other It was a feast for the eyes, Objects from faraway places, Some utilitarian, others just The state was also present everywhere. The king had many representatives. Heading the list were those that supported the city. The scribe was responsible It was the chief of guard who carried out [Nomadic spoken audio] Some subjects were already attempting in order to lower their contribution To record trading and taxes, a system of codes writing was born but it was only used Tobar was fascinated by the scribe. Sarki had mastered the science of signs, Could he count the stars in the skies? The weaver created fabrics but his debt to the state had tripled, and he was unable to pay. Sarki and the weaver had become friends. Why demand so much right away? Could he not pay in installments? The Chief of Guards but he had the memory of an elephant, The Chief of Guards' loyalty to his king but he used his authority [Nomadic spoken audio] How could he serve the king The more Sarki defended the weaver, the harder the chief of guards The king's palace, was an immense house, bigger than the biggest dune This was where the taxes were sent. Tobar wanted to see what was but it was a restricted area. [Nomadic spoken audio] Tobar had never encountered such a thing, a place open only to a chosen few. He wanted to know what went on in there. Why were they hiding their activities In his village, You only had to ask. [Nomadic spoken audio] It was like a golden village a place where all decisions were made. It looked wonderful. It housed architects, the greatest concentration The riches of the state were used to maintain the city but also to protect the kingdom. Thieving nomads had made a foray The king had to increase his army, and manufacture new weapons. He needed more resources. Tobar was drawn to the scribe. He was mesmerized by his knowledge. He wanted to meet him It was now clear He wanted to write. [Nomadic spoken audio] Tobar implored the scribe to teach him, but writing wasn't something It was reserved for the elite, Thanks to writing, kings could Their messages, however, It was important hence the strategic importance By accepting to help Tobar learn, He was not allowed to teach Watch and keep quiet. Sarki liked the shepherd. His naivete and openness appealed to him. Writing requires discipline and rigor, The principle is simple, A sign and a clay tablet, [Nomadic spoken audio] Gaia was an old lineage, If only his ancestors The first lesson was a disaster an idea Sarki's friend had been chosen and the Chief of Guards was about [Nomadic spoken audio] The sophisticated organization of the city had its share The functionaries had to carry out orders This time, they were asking too much. The weaver had hidden his last reserves. Sarki was appalled by the abuse. He was prepared to lie to save his friend. After 20 years of loyal service, Talented scribes would soon do much more He would invent new symbols The young shepherd began a very powerful tool. It could be used to communicate knowledge, and to disseminate However, writing could also be used to transmit false information Words would prove more powerful To redress the injustice Sarki falsified A few signs were changed The treasurer was tense. He'd been unable to collect [Nomadic spoken audio] Sarki had never cheated before, The falsification was well done [Nomadic spoken audio] The Chief of Guard saw through the trick. He knew Sarki had altered the figures He just didn't know which one. Sarki. Sarki was hard on his student, He wasn't allowed to sleep The faster Tobar learned, the more demanding Sarki became. There were times when Tobar missed but soon he would learn Sarki was under investigation. The falsified tablet had been found [Nomadic spoken audio] What good would all His imagination would free him. Oh, no, the Chief of Guards Sarki was thrown in prison. Having one's freedom taken away For an uneducated man like Tobar, With intellectual food, He was able to endure solitude, boredom, persecution. Writing made it possible to a large number of people, but this meant that people -Ba. -Bu. -B. Sarki determined even the mute. He wasn't allowed to but he didn't care. He wanted to pass on his knowledge to share it He only got away with it had a curious mind. He listened and learned, and he never breathed Indeed, thousands of years would pass As cities, prosperity, and vitality are linked to its ability the monarchs had not understood They'd wanted so as to exploit it to their own ends. [Nomadic spoken audio] Sarki had betrayed his king. For such crimes, Sarki was sentenced It would be a long time before mankind In the city, public executions but their real purpose was to reinforce Tobar could not let this happen, He had risked his life for him, it was time to repay his friend. He loved Sarki, and on that day, He had been his disciple, his prodigy. Tobar gave his master the symbol of Gaia, [Nomadic spoken audio] By living in large cities, and no longer recognized its dangers. Even though they could read the stars they were unable Without shade for protection, MG. Sarki felt the end was near, He preferred to die free By this time, to finding city dwellers As a rule, they'd already died of thirst. What would they do with a dying man? Strip him of his goods Who were these people? Why had they saved him? They were nomads, and for them, a stranger was a traveler These people were descendants an ancient family that had never converted They knew the Gaia lineage very well. Tobar continued to study on his own For Sarki's inspired teaching who gradually became an educated man. A master of symbols. Between the major urban centers, Moving in caravans, trading goods unknowingly contributing which would continue to grow. Thanks to these travelers knowledge and know-how, science, the arts, Thanks to Sarki, they were able One day, writing would enable all people from the shackles of their kings. [Nomadic spoken audio] Ten years have gone by, [Nomadic spoken audio] Tobar had become a royal scribe Sarki was very impressed, Sarki had told the Desert Nomads He wanted to show him the world Tobar chose to stay, his place was here. He had a mission. His role was no longer He was writing the history of mankind. He would write the history so that it could be read and heard for thousands of years to come. The written word would soon become the most powerful means There would soon be billions of humans sharing their knowledge When they will no longer know where to go, they will look back