In a part of the Nile Valley that was soon the Aswan Dam, the archaeologist Fred Wendorf found a prehistoric burial site which contained 61 This burial site, called Jebel Sahaba, was 14,000 years ago. Because almost all these Wendorf and his colleagues thought they history. But were these skeletons really organized warfare even exist at all at In this video we address these questions Recently, Isabelle Crevecour and her They do not believe the skeletons are the victims show signs of fresh and healed injuries. Also, This suggests that Jebel Sahaba is not a trace place for the victims of ongoing small acts of The injuries, which were to a large extent caused At least two skeletons show that people lying on the ground by an arrow through the skeletons have numerous wounds. In tomb no. 21 stone splinters from numerous arrowheads. Like an injury that typically occurs when defending However, the young woman's arm had healed by the been in a fight at least twice in her life. earliest archaeological pieces of evidence of since it probably was a series of the question remains whether these events can we must ask what war is in the first place. The Archaeologist Andrew K. Scherer defines war among autonomous groups [...] [that] involves not psychological trauma [...]&quot;. Firstly, this means, secondly a large proportion of these groups are and psychological injuries are caused in the with this definition. In the eyes of most military namely that of organization. In their eyes if several combatants are organized under a leader For the purposes of this video, we add this Organization does not mean that there has to be a can be considered war as well. In terms of years ago could potentially be seen as war. clashes were organized and who was involved. Given been discussed by researchers and philosophers for it is simply part of human nature. Churchill wrote in his treatise on World War I: brief and precarious interludes there has history began murderous strife was universal and of the political philosopher Thomas Hobbes, and imagined life in a primitive society to be &quot; Churchill, for a long time most archaeologists who, in response to Hobbes's grim scenario, peacefully in harmony with nature. As a result of II, many scholars thought of prehistoric they tried to present prehistory as a time of Weapons and armor tended to be understood by and prehistoric fortifications were seen as One example that still causes great debate consider them a defensive structure, others, de Waal, think they were a protection against This assumption that war was unimportant in influential archaeologist Lawrence H. Keeley The Myth of the Peaceful Savage&quot; in 1996. In warfare was serious business and He emphasizes that conflicts in this period, such as the 30 Years War or the World Wars, had prehistory: &quot;Primitive warfare is actually total of prehistory were mostly short and small, but For the hunter-gatherer groups of the time, which even the loss of a handful of adults Keeley's book led archaeologists and historians war. No conclusive answer has been found, and we however, not to make the mistake of world before history just because no traces that prehistory was dark and warlike must it as a lost paradise must prove that there let us search for the first traces of war. About 500,000 to 300,000 years ago, humans to hunt big game. Groups of hunters could now horses or woolly mammoths. A famous example of spears, which are between 290,000 and 337,000 became more and more sophisticated. Points and cooperation became more complex. By the last clubs, and thrown stones were the most important that the hunter-gatherers of this period also used it is very likely that they used all One of the earliest indications of the in the Shanidar cave in what is now Iraq. years old, has a wound in the chest area that Because it had long been assumed that Neanderthals their physique definitely put them at researchers assumed that it was a modern human, Accordingly, the find was interpreted as a sign This in turn became an argument in the debate Indeed, there are two major theories which assumes that humans and Neanderthals which assumes that modern humans forcibly replaced wiping them out in a kind of genocide - These possibilities are still discussed like Yuval Noah Harari's bestseller Sapiens. of modern humans originated from Neanderthals, on a large scale. Harari therefore suspects food thanks to better technology and better social This suggests that there were conflicts between warfare yet, and certainly no coordinated The two aspects that gave humans an advantage, were rapidly evolving. By the late weapons and hunting techniques were becoming more spear-throwing lever, appeared on the scene. And used against members of the same species. When Erhard Schoch, a winegrower from the small was working in his garden in 1983, he made a human bones. It was not long until, archaeologists of the matter. They discovered the skeletons of had been killed by a blow to the head. The injury executed with a stone axe, and then buried used in two other well-known massacres at whole series of lesser-known acts of violence By means of a so-called isotope analysis, a ate and therefore hints at a certain habitat, buried in the Talheim death pit belonged to three among those who lived in Talheim itself, which was related to an abduction of women. However, and why so many people of different groups were It is also unclear whether these massacres groups. They, however, do indicate that eastern and central Europe, which produced many resorted to violence to secure their survival is considered the oldest culture in central Europe They are most famous for their long houses. sedentary lifestyle is part of a vital change in People began to settle down, cultivate crops and population density, but also intensified stocks from the surpluses they produced, but supplies provided a worthwhile target for those according to the historian Kauschik Roy, led to territorial and personal disputes, the struggle conflict throughout Eurasia. To protect themselves soon began to fortify their settlements. Four warriors armed with bow and arrow are can be found on a cave painting from Morella la a good 5,000 years ago. It is probably the oldest Because of the positioning of the figures, some of a double envelopment, with the four archers Of course, this is far from evident, and one But taken together with other cave paintings as the first actual indication of cooperation definition of war, organized action. One of these behind a leader recognizable by his headdress, on the ground. According to military historian was a leader and an orderly procedure &quot;which By this, Ferrill primarily refers to the most the column, and the line. Like most researchers, hunting strategies, for example driven hunts, into swamps or over cliffs. These hunting against members of the same species. became widespread in the Epipaleolithic or bc in western Europe)) and Neolithic (Neolithic other three are the sling, the dagger, and the for hunting as well. The bow and arrow were drastically increased the range and efficiency conditions of hunting and fighting. A well thrown a spear thrower of up to 100m. But even a simple much simpler to handle. With it, one could to put oneself in immediate danger, carry many While Stone Age warriors of Western Europe relied the sling. Archaeologists found large quantities certainly intended as ammunition for this weapon. terms of range and penetrating power. It took those who mastered it could be absolutely deadly of about 400m. The sling was used in primitive popular in the Mediterranean even into antiquity, important Neolithic close combat weapons were heads made of stone were also used. However, they sling. These new and efficient weapons underline Stone Age. Combined with the evidence of tactics four points of our definition were ticked in the soon war took on increasingly terrifying forms. When in 2015 a team of researchers studied the they noticed something strange: According to one man per 17 women in Africa, Europe and Asia. Anthropologists and biologists were baffled. Had it was not the number of men that had declined so which means that a small, interrelated group of Nevertheless, this discovery puzzled In 2018, researchers at Stanford University the diversity of Y chromosomes has decreased that the male gene pool has shrunk so much because other over generations. Because membership and wars wiped out more and more of these male clans actually reproduced with a majority of all that a &quot;burst of organized warfare&quot; occurred in be as drastic as &quot;Alexander's conquest of Persia in the seventh century AD.&quot; The most important 8,000 and 4,000 BC, people increasingly began to their supplies and the infrastructure that was Fortifications are probably the most impressive the New Stone Age. They clearly show the One of the places that was fortified very walls that were three meters thick and tower that was built around 8'000 BC. These settlement with its approximately 2'000-3'000 it really was primarily a defensive structure. as protection against seasonal floods. But it was also an effective protection against and mines were invented, a simple wall Similarly, the attackers of Catalhoyuk found which at first glance looks like a densely packed to be well-fortified. The site, which was built by a free-standing wall, but by the fact that to each other, so that their outer walls formed accessible only by ladders from the roof, so that double wall. If attackers managed to break through simply furnished housing spaces and exposed to for example in Hacilar Hoyuk and Yumuktepe, the Over the next few centuries, fortifications became Mesopotamia, the settlement of Tell es-Sawwan and another 500 years later, Yangalach, had a wall with round towers that were This was a milestone for defensive installations, because in case of an attack, it was possible Epilogue It soon became known as Otzi due to which named him after the the Otztal Alps an arrow pierced his shoulder blade and a violent exact circumstances of his death are still debated blood on his equipment, the Institute for Mummy detect any human blood on either the dagger or the in his shoulder, the cuts on his hand and arm, and was involved in a fight shortly before his death. warfare and as such stands for the fact that It might not be possible to determine whether is a learned behavior, but from the Neolithic part of the human existence and has had a human culture. It was not long until humans used more complicated tactics, and built soon become city-states and eventually the first escalated war to a new dimension in the Bronze would decisively shape humanity and the course of