The animals went wild like a battle-ready army. They swept everything away with their strength, numbers, and fiery temper. But why? Let's find out on When Animals Go on a Rampage, only on WowTV. The campground management is here. This is just a hot penalty for this illegal cooking family. If you love adventure travels and animals, you should check out Crocosaurus Cove in Australia. The glass cage will give you an authentic experience while keeping you safe. I'm way too familiar with those rude animals stealing food at the beach. Their cunning has reached a whole new level. A new fear of boating has been unlocked. A typical shopping day in India. They're used to four-legged guests wreaking havoc in the stores, leaving a mess without paying. If you're unlucky, you might encounter a great white shark in Muscle Bay. They're pretty much the rulers of the ocean with no natural enemies. So stay alert. When a rhino faces off against an elephant, it might forget that having big horns isn't always the strongest weapon. And after a breathless moment, that confidence turns into a bitter lesson. The paradise for kangaroos is Australia. But take a look at what they're doing in this paradise. Even if you're innocent, they'll come after you. They might even show up at your doorstep to say hello. Warning, you're breaking the rules by standing too close. When you forget to feed your dog. No photos here. Stop right now before I have to use these antlers. The Australian desert doesn't welcome foreign visitors. What would you do if you encountered a bear? Run away? Nope, the key is to roar and act scary to intimidate them. Hey, even if they're raised like house cats, lions still remember they're the kings of the jungle. With steady hands on the handlebars, nothing can stop him from moving forward. The Komodo dragons just wanted a ride from the humans. But instead of agreeing, the boatman chased them away with a pair of sticks. Four-legged thieves were getting bolder. Not only did they steal, but they also caused havoc. The kangaroo fighter unleashed a knockout move. But this opponent wasn't giving up easily. This monkey was definitely a food critic. And this banana did not meet its standards. Find another place to play golf if you don't want your arm to take the place of the ball. Running around Yellowstone is like exercising with a twist of adventure. It's a thrilling experience, like you're the main character in a survival movie. Here's why you shouldn't touch a wolffish. Being kept in captivity for too long and getting too close to humans can make tigers agitated. I'm sure that guest will learn a lesson after this video. Those cries were the first warning. And when words didn't work, the baby javelina took action. A cheetah sitting on the windshield is enough to make your heart race. But the real despair hits when its own kind blocks the way out. Don't let the turtle's shy appearance fool you. They're way more aggressive than you'd expect. While animals often recognize each other by scent, goats identify by face. Just cover your face and you'll instantly become the villain in their eyes. Hello there, would you mind if I asked you a few questions? You're watching the woodpecker's move of using its tongue to scare off rivals. The thief's plan almost worked. If it weren't for our camera catching it all as evidence. It seemed the monkey just discovered a whole new world through those glasses. Just looking through the screen gives me chills at the elephant's fury. Yet the driver calmly reverses as if this tense showdown is just a regular driving lesson. The hot-tempered gorilla doesn't like anyone getting in its way. He woke up just in time. The snake's plan totally flopped. Following the geese, turkeys became bullies causing trouble on the streets of New York. Even Labradors felt intimidated. The strangest and most peaceful encounter between a human and a bear. Maybe the man's nonchalant attitude embarrassed the bear. This wild boar boldly broke into a school and caused trouble for the security guard. It's going to regret ending up in jail. Forget about angels falling from the sky. Here, it's just a gang of raccoons dropping down from the ceiling. A person's greatest enemy is themselves. The chickens were all set for their great escape from the coop. But their plan fell apart because of one voice. Oh, looks like the path was a bit narrow. Luckily, both understood the traffic rules. A plot twist that no one saw coming. Hunger has turned the fish into little troublemakers. There's no doubt about it. Dogs are definitely the enemies of the delivery guy. Turns out this is the real meaning of bird trap. The ability to jump as high as 15 feet is the terrifying advantage of great white sharks when hunting. What annoyed the bison? A. Being approached too closely. B. Being filmed. Whatever the answer is, staying away from wild animals is a rule we should always follow. A rule that never fails. Don't approach or feed wild animals, even if it's a seemingly gentle deer. Never make eye contact with a yak, because if you do, you might just become their target. Cats are going to take over the world. But first, they need to overcome their fear of tiny insects. We're all used to feeding pigeons. But have you ever seen a feast for hundreds of hungry vultures? That sight might leave you speechless. Does it really think standing on two legs will catch up to that car? Remember, wild boars are not sleeping beauties. If you wake it up, I'm not sure things will end well. The penguin's reflexes are so fast that the seal hasn't even figured out what's happening. Maybe he needs to find another spot to take a nap. When your pet is the one who loves to steal the spotlight. The boy wants to conquer his fear. But his legs have other ideas. A terrifying scene as a pod of orcas hunt dolphins. Each member of the pod will repeat the behavior until the prey surrenders. Not every boxing match has a referee. In this fight, it's just two bears battling for territory, with nature as the judge. Don't worry, it's just the traffic cops doing their usual checks. Everything fits together so well that I thought the dog was a voice actor. Sorry, I prefer fast food. Cheetahs aren't suitable as pets, because leashes can make them extremely agitated and uncontrollable. This crocodile has evolved, and it will chase to warn adventurous people. During a famine, monkey troops could go berserk over just a bit of food. What a naughty horse! Who set a camera here? So rude! Triggerfish don't like being filmed either. You feed them, but the only thing they're interested in is you. The whole family was on edge when the alligator chose their home as its territory. Later, experts had to intervene and relocate the aggressive creature back to where it belonged. Besides trying to get the ball into the hole, golfers also have to avoid aggressive creatures disrupting the game. The deer must have been furious when humans built a golf course in the middle of its habitat. You have to deal with the seal before taking a photo with it. We often come up with many ways to play around, but we rarely find a solution. They may have to stay still in the car until nightfall. Note for the future, dress neatly when interacting with wild animals. The sight of a peacock being completely plucked has left many people wondering. It turns out that for a long time, the peacock had continuously teased and harassed the panda. The gentle giant couldn't take it anymore and decided to teach it a lesson. In the dark of night, two lions entered a residential area to hunt a cow. But as they approached their plump prey, no one expected they'd end up empty-handed. Monkeys may be small, but they have incredible agility and teamwork. When they saw one of their own being bullied, they immediately came to the rescue, sending the dog running. The price for that curiosity is... I bet that cat won't dare go near the iguana again. The capybara was drawn to the feathers of the peacock's tail. But unfortunately, those feathers weren't meant for its viewing. To make feeding a bit more attractive for the lion, the caretakers put the meat in a barrel. And here's the result of a greedy eater. In this garden, there's a guardian, and you need its permission to enter. Aww, although its strength isn't all that impressive. Even though he was hiding in the tree, the lion could still find him. He would have to stay up there for a while longer. How would you react in this situation? Comment down below and let us know! If someone left their money here, I bet they wouldn't dare to come back and pick it up.