Krishnamurti: I hope we will have We are going to talk over which concerns mostly our life, our daily, monotonous, rather tiresome, And one hopes that that we are not doing To propagate any particular ideology, any conclusion, or any persuasion. We are going to talk over as two friends, our various problems, not only the problems but also the very complex problem We are going to talk over not accepting anything but rather questioning, enquiring together. So this is not a lecture or the speaker preaching. But rather we should talk over, you and the speaker, not only what is which is becoming more and more and also the world, that is much more complex, that demands a great deal of looking, observing, searching, the world of the psyche, And if one can be assured that this is not where you are going to receive It is becoming that we are dependent - either intellectual, emotional, imaginary, or sentimental, romantic. We must be very clear, all of us, that we are together, are going to look at the world That is the world that human beings the economic, social, political and religious. The society that we have made, The disorder, which is becoming the world of tyranny, absolute tyranny, the so-called and the democratic, This country, and perhaps one or two are open societies. You can do what you want to do, go where you will, change jobs, express your opinions, criticise everything about you, Or you accept what is and go along. So please bear in mind, that we are going to talk over as two friends - we may be strangers, perhaps, the speaker certainly not. But as we are here this morning and the next week, we are going to quietly, hesitantly, tentatively look at what we are doing, enquire together, after all these millennia thousands upon thousands of years why we are what we are. There are various kinds War is the greatest disorder. And every little nation supplied by the great powers and the little powers. And there has been holocaust - the last war. And there are other kinds Beirut, Vietnam, and South America, Russia, and so on. There hasn't been Those holocausts And we seem to have become to what is happening in the Near East, in Europe and Russia and here. We are really insensitive, indifferent, though one may have these demonstrations for various causes, not wanting neutron bombs but nobody, as far as one nobody wants to end wars. And as we said, The ideological disorder. One country, having crystallised Leninism has become the religion and anybody who is against it like the old Middle Ages, they were heretics, heathens. That is what is happening and we are indifferent to it. We know it is happening newspapers are full of it, books have been written And the murder - one sect against another sect being armed by the others, killing each other in the name of peace, in the name These are all facts. The speaker is not saying anything And we are indifferent Apparently we become active when it touches us, when it touches each one of us, in your backyard. Again that is a fact. And knowing all this, in words, in books, in the newspapers we seem to be unable to do Again that is a fact. And if we can this morning - next week, rather - we will go and find out together What is our responsibility, not just the words, but the actual feeling as you feel responsible for your husband If you feel responsible. But when one asks oneself, what is the relationship of oneself what is one to do with this appalling, And most of us are aware, know, not only verbally but actually - we have been through wars, whether in the recent war or the concentration camps we know what is happening, how deeply we are responsible or how superficially, how indifferent. Or actively taking part not a particular part whether America or Russia France or India or Japan. We are human beings apart from economic religious frontiers, we are all human beings, black, white, purple, pink, It is our earth to be lived on, to enjoy the marvellous the lovely seas and the hills and the great valleys the groves, the orchards But apparently we are incapable without any barrier, without any separation which is really without any organised religious We talk a great deal about freedom though in the other parts though they feel the human necessity the absolute elite So can we, recognising all this, not merely descriptively, not accepting mere explanations, whether it be historical or personal, can we look at all this if that is possible, without any bias, prejudice, and find out together what we can do. What is disorder? What would you consider And what is order? Is order brought about By one's opinions, judgements, various religious conclusions Is not the very ideologies Please, Don't - if one may suggest don't merely listen to what If you are merely listening it is not worth listening. But if you listen not only but listen with your heart, with all your being to find out what we can do There is considerable mess which is called disorder - dangerous mess. And around this mess and reorganise I hope you are following And this reorganisation confusion, conflict, this reorganising around that Right? You are following all this? And we are satisfied We feel we are But the mess, the confusion, the terror that is going on, has been going on Now, we know it is happening through quick communication It is said that in Italy, Rome, Now it takes probably You are following all this? And we have progressed The man with a club Then somebody came along and they said, This will kill so many people. Then came along various instruments, and we have the latest one, that can evaporate human beings And we have made again In all this, the wars, the terrors, the appalling things we have never tackled cruelty. Not the cruelty or the recent war and the horrors of war we have never as human beings been able to be free of cruelty, not only to the animals, The ultimate cruelty is war, Can we as human beings look at this word first, the word 'cruelty', then feel the meaning Cruelty to one's own self we will go into all that. Cruelty to others, using each other for our own personal ambition All these are various forms ideological cruelty and so on. It is not the cruelty but the cruelty that is almost wanting to hurt somebody else. Why is it, after all the religious long before Christianity, many, many centuries they said, don't kill. The other is yourself. And we are still going on. Can this end? That is one of our whether this cruelty which is inherent - please listen to all this - which is inherent As long as there is there must be exploitation cruelty to another, This self-interest, which hides it hides behind the name of God, it hides in every priest Aren't you self-interested Of course. But one never faces it. One doesn't want to look at it. And to pursue it, to find out, all its trickery, all its hypocritical hypocrisy, its pride, its arrogance, its vanity and its humility, it requires great awareness and it demands great discipline. But we are all We are rather sloppy We are never certain We have a lot of beliefs, dogmas, faith. I wonder if you have examined, certain religion as Christianity, based on books, if you begin to question them, doubt, the whole thing would collapse, because we never doubt our own experience. We never question. I hope that has been As we were saying, we never question our thinking, our prejudices, our conclusions, to find out whether or merely opinions. Or we never question our own So please, and question and answer there must be doubt. Doubt is essential. A certain form of scepticism because that clears the brain so that one can see clearly. One can see clearly what one is. And so especially be sceptical especially, because he is not a guru, he doesn't want a thing from you - neither your applause, Please be assured of that. So you can relax and be free. Because it is very important, if you are really assured, that the speaker is not expecting doesn't want your money, except what you give But it is not for the speaker - it is to keep the place clean, He doesn't want to create because you want Your novels, your books, - everything entertains you. And you like that, But here we are trying delve into this deep problem So is it possible, to bring about order in our life. If there is complete order, both biologically then there is no conflict. There is conflict and disorder - the ideal, which is projected So your ideals I don't know if you are aware It is very clear if you observe in the so-called There the ideology is supreme. The ideology of Marx, and all those people, they are creating and are doing it now, Any ideology, or the Hindu ideology, or the socialist and so on, they are bound to because the ideology, I accept that ideology. Therefore you divide yourself And hence there is conflict If you once actually, not merely verbally, but deeply inwardly, the truth of that, then you are a free man But ideologies give us And that is why we cling to beliefs which are put together - I won't go into all that - and we cling to that. There are over 800 Catholics, I don't know how many divisions and there is in the Islamic world killing each other. But in the Buddhist and Hindu world So can one, the feeling, put away all ideologies This is a very serious question, please don't push it aside and say, why shouldn't I have or my own particular ideal? The ideal based on my knowledge. Then that knowledge, that particular concept must be questioned, doubted, Then one must ask, Why we live in our private life and also in public life, why there is so much disorder. The speaker is not asking You are asking the question. Who has brought about Don't casually say, and then put that aside too. We learn quick answers because we are all - 'learned' in quotes. But we never ask of ourselves why our house is in disorder. Which means, there must be conflict. And we live with conflict, the ultimate being war and the disorder. You may have great order physical house, as most Americans do, but we are talking but also inward disorder. Why is there in all of us which breeds disorder? What is this conflict? Why have we human beings Not only during this century, not only last week and now, but man has lived in disorder We have inherited it, our brains are conditioned Our very way of looking at life, accepting, disobeying, belonging to this belonging to a particular sect, - I hope you don't mind particular person who says, I have got it, you haven't got it, The vanity of these people and their followers. So what is this conflict due to, First let us look very closely deeply at that human brain - which has evolved millennia, two million or fifty million years, why this brain, not my particular brain, there is no my particular brain. A nice idea, But the brain has evolved Your organism is like highly evolved, sensitive, intelligent. Each organism but we are slowly destroying alcohol, smoking, the whole business So, what is the cause in our daily life, If there is order in each one of us, if each one of us has this do you think Do you think we would belong Any book that is sanctified Then there would be no fear, no sorrow, no loneliness, and certainly no gods. So we are going to if it is possible to have this Are you interested in it? Honestly? Would you spend your time, - that is the last would you spend your energy As you spend your energy going to the office or a particular you give great deal of energy for power, money, position, recognition, fame, you spend tremendous energy going to the office for 50, 60 years, and trying to cure others Now, will you give Sitting there quietly looking, will you give that energy? Not all of it, because you have to go to office or the factory or some job. Will you give that energy if you can put inward house, this whole If you will give it not to the speaker, then together find out. Together find out, then it becomes absurd, But if you give that energy, to find out if you can live then we can ask what is the cause of it. Because when you can the effect doesn't exist. I don't know if you have gone into We will go into it briefly. Cause is not separate The effect lies in the cause. If there is no cause But we separate the cause The acorn of these oaks produce the oak. But the tree, the whole leaf, the beauty of the leaves, the sunlight on the leaves it lies in the seed. But to us, the cause and effect We say, perhaps I will be very healthy. But it is like saying or the means doesn't matter - whereas the means is the end. You understand all this? Look at it, They are talking about peace, and building up armaments. The cause is fear, trying to save something As long as there is that fear, that desire to be completely safe you are going to have wars. We will talk about it later. So what is the cause As I said, give your brain, thought, It is not very difficult. Don't call it difficult It is very simple. Look what is happening the Arabs and the Israelis. They are of the same group. They live on this same earth. But one has been trained, programmed to think Programmed like a computer And the other side, for 4000 years. They are old people, like the Hindus, like the Chinese. So they have the Arab and the Israelis. The Americans and the old Indians you have very carefully The holocaust. So, there must be conflict Please, this is a law. It is not my law, it is a law, not the law of the judges but this is the eternal law. As long as you are separate and the wife separate from you, with their ambition, with their pride, - I must fulfil, In that relationship as there is conflict conflict between God and you So wherever there is a division we are going to have conflict. How does this division Is it self-interest Please examine, question, Is it that each one of us so concerned with himself? So that very concern divides. You may get married, but this division goes on. And we accept this division and therefore accept conflict, as part of existence, it is natural to struggle, And the raison d'etre for that is: doesn't everything fight in nature? Each tree is fighting for light. The bigger animal and so on So, our life then is accepted as being naturally, But we never ask actually not to have self-interest at all. Are you, if one may ask, are you asking this question Are you frightened to ask it? Or do you just listen, spend useless hours sitting saying it is not possible, or, oh yes, it is possible, and just leave it like that. Or will you question it, seeing what the world is, - nationalistic division, ideological differences which we have created. The intellectuals, the terrorists, No empire has been built, whether the modern empire without blood. As they used to say, you first take the Bible This has been our way of life. And a man or a woman really wants to find out If it ends, then only Peace demands not just a demonstration It doesn't lie in any capital It demands to have real peace within one's heart and mind to understand And to understand that the structure and requires observation, not condemnation, not taking sides about it, but just to observe How we are constantly - the American way of life and so on and on and on. Are you listening to all this? Or are you getting bored Would you kindly Audience: We are listening. K: Please, you can all say yes, Or be stimulated for the moment - that doesn't bring about One must exercise immense, But our education Our education also has helped us tremendous advancement, from the small computer submarines, warships, quick communication The more diseases the more medicines They are making The speaker is not these are facts. He abhors cynicism. So can one observe quietly, without any choice, observe what is going on The mirror in which we see our faces. How you comb your hair, how you shave or do your face up, Can we observe as closely, as definitely, without any distortion? That means we have to understand Why do we choose? Please ask yourself, why is there Of course there is choice between two materials. If you have the money, Between two authors. The choice between shadow of the sun, sun which creates the shadow, Dark and the daylight, tall, short - but is there psychological choice You understand my question? Please ask yourself, why do we choose inwardly, say I will do this, This is right, that is wrong. I am violent, I have pride, You understand? going on all the time. Is there choice at all Or is there choice only Questioner: (Inaudible) we will have questions if you don't mind. Please listen, that is, You are asking this question, I am not asking you You are asking that question Why is there this choice That is a choice. but I will choose Why is there that choice? Q: (Inaudible) if you would like to come you are perfectly welcome. Q: (Inaudible) You can ask questions on Tuesday I am not preventing you Please have the courtesy, the patience, and not get bored, to find out for yourself, not from what the speaker is not important, but what is being said The speaker is not seeking personal worship - there is no personality I really mean it. He is not important at all, but what is being said So we are asking, apart from the choice of things. Could we look at it Human beings inherited probably from the apes and so on - they are violent people, throughout the world. And he says he realises not only in himself, he says let us be non-violent, let's talk about non-violence, let us use that instrument This has been one of the things - non-violent - not only India but others So we, I, you, are violent we are violent. And then we say, which is a choice, isn't it? Now, why do we do this? I am greedy, Right? I am full of vanity, You can't become - where there is vanity, that cannot be changed Where there is vanity, complete ending of it, only then there is humility. So let's look very carefully, if you will kindly have not be too bored why we are doing this Take violence, because that is what is going on The tremendous sense of violence - the bombs, the killing, murder, rape, What is violence? Physical violence. That is one side of it. Surely violence is Violence is - if you examine it closely, violence is conformity. I am this, but I will be that. You don't understand this, One doesn't understand and without understanding that, you want to transform that Suppose I am violent. Physically, because I see it all about me. Suppose I said I don't like what is going on, I haven't understood but I want to escape from that, So, after creating something then there is conflict and what I think should be. This is what we are doing. So, I say to myself, before I achieve the other, which is non-violent, I must first understand This seems so logical, isn't it? We have become so illogical and we are frightened because we are caught in illusions So I am going to be I can go beyond logic I am violent. And I see everything around me From the animals, nature, the tremendous lightning, the beauty of it, it is a form of violence, And I am violent. Violence is not only physical, but a great deal When I conform to a pattern, when I am being allowed You understand? When you tell me for the good of my soul and you become the authority, so when I accept authority Right? Psychological authority, There is the authority The authority of law. The authority of the policeman If you drive in Europe, if you drive in England or here Yes, left. No - right? I haven't driven lately. Yes, I walk down to the left and walk up the right, So, violence must exist where - that is part of it - where out of my confusion, I create authority. I am confused, I am disturbed, I want certainty. And you come along, the psychologist, the others, and they become the authority. I have created them my disorder. So I realise subjectively, either the experience the memory of that experience - follow all this - or the authority 'I know, The nasty, coining money. They are some of the most your evangelists, the churches, the tremendous organisations, they say, have faith, And I am so frightened, I am gullible, I accept it. So I am creating out of my disorder, If there is order, because I behave properly not according to a pattern. So, one of the causes of conflict, is psychological acceptance That means, can one live a single authority, so that one lives not tomorrow. And psychologically, there is disorder because we have separated ourself It is one of the most to say, there is no separation. I am the world. I am the rest of humanity. Because you suffer, the Hindus, Chinese, every human being I shed tears. And also laughter, of course. Every human being on this earth pursues every form of avoidance, every form of escape from fear, So, I am the world This is not just this is actuality. So, as long as I separate which is you, I must have conflict We will go into that whether we have or consciousness of mankind. What time is it, sir? A: It is five minutes to one. K: I am sorry Somebody should tell us. So I will finish with this. Where there is separation I can separate I think one thing, think one thing That is separation, So one can go into this question and when you begin to understand the nature and structure and the way of its subtlety, as you watch it, the very watching in that watching And that requires great attention every action, And if one wants to end we have to give Not casual attention, not one day or one week later, but keeping that attention Will you kindly get up