Our story begins Today is November 5, 2007. In this villa, west of the city, a meeting between several Cosa Nostra leaders. It's 9:20. Two men arrive. They don't know it, The police are sure of it. This is where a very big fish is hiding on the run for 24 years: the head of the Palermo mafia. With him, his son They are among the 30 most dangerous fugitives in Italy. Nine thirty, it's the assault, They know that the two men trapped in the garage are armed. The police shoot in the air. Faced with the deployment of force, suspects prefer to surrender without resistance. This is a huge victory She will discover in passing hides EUR500,000 in his garden in simple jam jars, A very active retiree The Italians discover The end of the run for the man considered With 700,000 inhabitants, Palermo is the largest city Ancient Phoenician trading post, it has an incalculable number of monasteries, of monuments. including the Teatro Massimo, one of the largest theatres in Europe. Palermo welcomes a total of 5 million tourists each year. Palermo is also known everywhere the fearsome Sicilian mafia. More than a century of existence, with the godfather of godfathers at its head. About fifteen mafia families share Palermo. They traffic, corrupt, influence and extort money from merchants. According to the police in Palermo, eight out of ten businesses pay taxes to the mafia. In Italian, racket is pizzo, a word that should not be pronounced Can you do it? There is no racket in Palermo. No, we don't have pizzo here, That, yes, Sicilian pizza. Pizzo didn't exist. It's none of my business, no comment. However, children It's when the mobsters They ask for the pizzo. This is not good because I am given a date that you have to pay Otherwise, what happens? Really ? They kill. They kill children and women. This racket would generate to Cosa Nostra. It's because we touched that it finds itself today We met three men who are at the origin Vincenzo Canticello, a restaurateur since he denounced before the judges those who tried to extort money from him. We all run the risk In my situation, there is one more. The risk of dying in a crash behind which there would be In Palermo, Colonel Manucci and his men will have to act quickly to arrest a dozen mobsters Take this one, take that one. Why are you filming it? The arrests of recent years, and especially in recent months, have put the entire Cosa Nostra system into crisis. Pino Maniaci is a journalist. On his local TV channel, he fights against a mafia family, that of the Vitale. He risks his life They'll have to kill me to stop me. Let's hope they don't. In the fight against racketeering, the most significant story was born here, in this restaurant the family of Vincenzo Conticello, has owned Antica Focaccia Sicilian singularity, the celebrities have succeeded one another at the same table, The mafioso Lucchiano Then it became He always said that their table had finally become In 2005, this establishment, is in the crosshairs of Cosa Nostra. Usual prelude he is subject to acts of vandalism. The carabinieri then placed him They hide microphones and mini cameras all around. On November 25, 2005, Vincenzo receives a strange visit. I was sitting there, and he was across from me. Unbeknownst to Vincenzo, He said he came to help me. He had a strange tone, he spoke in half-words, The typical behavior but rather to insinuate. As he spoke, I understood To stop the acts of vandalism the man asks for money. He first asked me for EUR50,000 for all the years and EUR500 per month from today. With this amount, I told him: &quot;Here, never paid,&quot; &quot;and it's not me at all So he said to me, &quot;You don't know I looked him straight in the eye, &quot;It's you who don't know Vincenzo will keep his word. On September 18, 2007, during a sensational trial, Vincenzo becomes the first merchant to point the finger, in full court, at those who wanted to extort money from him. However, this gesture put him Since the trial, Vincenzo is permanently surrounded like this man in a beige jacket Here, the threat can come from anywhere. So, on the terrace, but with fear in my stomach. Tonight he receives a man who is also escorted What do you think of Vincenzo's gesture? That everyone should do like him. This is an example It is a gesture that may seem trivial but which here takes on extraordinary proportions. Vincenzo does not regret his choice. Giving in to blackmail would not have given him more freedom, quite the contrary. By paying, I would have become If you pay once, you are bound to them forever. They start by asking you for money then hide a weapon and thus become their accomplice. So that way, I am free from the mafia, but I still feel like a free man. Risk or not, already, followed Vincenzo's example. This climate change because the police use methods worthy of the best spy films. Some 500 mobsters have been arrested confused by microphones We met of the Palermo police. Antonino De Santis in one of the most secret places in Sicily. You turn off the camera and hide it. For what ? Because we prefer the place where the listening is done We are going In a residential building, which it accesses I'll show you It is a surveillance center who deals with organized crime, Thanks to microphones and cameras, to pick up conversations They even manage to find out to better trap them red-handed. It was learned that a trader had received extortion demands. So we installed With this information, we were able to intervene immediately and arrest racketeers red-handed. I repeat that these means are essential The most incredible thing is the racket that he was the victim of the meat market. Police and gendarmes have discovered the price of meat and all this for a very simple reason: so they can pay for the racket. Result: Palermitans pay for the greater profit of the mafia. Carabinieri barracks, the Italian gendarmes. In a few hours, who extorts the butchers of Palermo. Colonel Manucci has been planning this raid for almost two years. Here too, it all started On the right, the man in the black jacket, the head of the mafia family In front of him, a butcher who addresses him by speaking of a certain Lorenzo. This is another butcher. They say: &quot;If Lorenzo continues &quot;I will be forced to close my butcher's shop.&quot; The butcher asks to enforce that meat prices be the same everywhere. Listen, this is what &quot;The agreement had set the price of meat between 10 and 11 euros.&quot; &quot;No one should go below the limit of 10 euros.&quot; &quot;That was the agreement, This proves that and it is the people of Palermo who are paying the consequences. Here are the 12 who are suspected Their clan controls In a few hours, they will have been arrested It's 2 p.m. For several months, the carabinieri because they saw that the alleged leaders met there every afternoon. There are two of them, we are waiting for the third. Mafiosi never have a habit, So, this daily appointment The police will take advantage of this. If we had tried to stop them because they never sleep These people, they don't work, they move all the time. Fortunately, the leaders have a meeting point every afternoon. They are playing cards. Colonel Manucci has abandoned his uniform. The operation will be carried out in two stages. First, we need to call on Then we will have to So, we have to track everyone No, leave it, I'll listen. The operation starts well. On his cell phone, He says where he is. The third was located in a bar-tabac. Hey, do you have the handcuffs? Hey, Sandro! You are always last. 4:50 p.m., here we go. The captain's car In total, 60 police officers, divided into 15 cars, are crisscrossing Palermo. We are with the captain. We head towards the wash to arrest what the carabinieri consider to be the leaders of the clan. There it is, it's here. This is Castelluccio. At the surveillance PC, thanks to the cameras, we see the presence of the three suspects. He gets on his scooter, It's time to intervene. Osquizzo, are you in place there? A problem arises. We are very close, but our car is stuck in a small street. Watch out, they're coming out. Watch out, they're getting on the scooter, they're going to leave. No, no, no, no, no, Stop. Stop, cancel, cancel, we can't do it. Colonel, we're not going to make it. They are going out, They left. Osquizzo, move away, move away everyone. Cameras and microphones were not enough, For the moment, The three leaders could meet again in the afternoon. It will just take a little luck. The police force remains in place. Did he come back, the one with the car? I hope he comes back. For the carabinieri, but they are motivated, in Palermo have changed mentalities. More and more traders have chosen We're going to meet one. He agreed to pay He will soon denounce To keep him safe, I made my decision at the time The police really gave the signal that this phenomenon At that point, I was ready to do anything, If this man has decided it's to keep your head up in front of your children. I have a five year old son. The simple idea that when he decides that Mr. X will come to see him every month, the sense of legality, I would be ashamed to tell him. We feel like we are somehow complicit. Little by little, fear changes sides deployed by law enforcement but it's not just in the city We go to the heart of Sicily, where atypical and courageous men also lead the fight against the mafia. It is in Partinico that it is installed the smallest television channel in Italy. Thanks to this antenna, it is received by 150,000 people. From Partinico to Corleone, Its owner is a local figure. Old. Old. Don't say a word or I'll film you. Pino grew up here. For years he has been rubbing shoulders with those who attack him in his newspaper. Here we are. We are on the eve of the municipal elections, Politics and mafia often go well together in Sicily, and Pino loves to put his foot in it. This is Mr. Brigano from the MPA: Mafia, Politics and Calls for Tenders. He is the candidate Salvo Lo Biundo, representative of the UDC, the Union of Couillons. We also have sentenced to nine years As you can see, Pino, you see some mafiosi here, Wait, wait, wait. Let me look them in the eye. No, they're just morons. In mafia land, whether those to whom Pino is speaking This man in the dark suit, for example. What do you think of Pino Maniaci's Telejato? He is a good journalist. Is there a mafia in Partinico? There are bad people Not particularly in Partinico? With this man, If he likes Telejato, it's because he's changed his mentality. If so, I'm glad, but here, they say that can't die with a square head. You don't change like that in Sicily. Pino still greets him from afar. No answer, Corleone, in the heart of Sicily, a small town of 11,000 inhabitants known throughout the world Corleone enjoys his sulphurous reputation. In this small bar, we find [Audio in Italian] You see, in Corleone, We have the digestif from &quot;The Godfather&quot;, As soon as a tourist comes in, Here, reality surpasses fiction. The bloodiest godfathers of Cosa Nostra were from Corleone, like Toto Riina, aka the beast, launched an open war In 15 years, around fifty police officers, journalists are being murdered. Increasingly violent, spectacular executions, like the attack in 1992 against Judge Falcone, one of the first Arrested a year later, Toto Riina it doesn't exist. In Corleone, a new godfather, Bernardo Provenzano, changes strategy. With him, Cosa Nostra The mafia only murders Under the reign of Provenzano, for more than 10 years... until April 11, 2006 the police burst into Here again, the trap closes arranged by law enforcement. Bernardo Provenzano, so secretive and elusive, is arrested after more than 40 years on the run. Today, in Corleone, The reactions are astonishing. No, it doesn't exist anymore, Since when? They are all in prison. We are alone, without dad. They were said to be mafiosi, That's all. Yet, a few months ago, Toto Riina's son, Giuseppe Riina, has been released from prison. Sentenced to eight years he was released before the end of his sentence We want to know The sub-prefect of Corleone, Carmine Mosca, but strangely, the police This is the street, right? We don't stop in front of it, no. I don't know, Oh really, has this already happened? It's happened before, right? No, but you never know Where exactly is it? It was at number 24. It was at number 24. The police warn us, Even a policeman He observes her, but from a distance. Do we see him in town? Yes, he walks with his sister, Under judicial supervision, Giuseppe Riina three times a week. That's when I'm making a documentary Can we ask you a question? No. According to Italian judges and investigators, the new godfather of Cosa Nostra. This is a matter that interests He feels at home here. We have an appointment Pino Maniaci wants to know what the mayor thinks about Giuseppe Riina's return. As is often the case here, an interview under escort. How do the residents experience the fact that Giuseppe Rina is back and walking free They live it like we all live it, with great care. Fortunately, the police are keeping a close eye on you, Mr. Riina. At the moment, there is no reason to increase surveillance. However, it is certain Pino Maniaci leads an endless war against the impunity enjoyed by certain alleged members of Cosa Nostra. That day he is pursuing another high-risk investigation in the Partinico area. It's filmed by his daughter and assisted by his son Pino loves to laugh about it. Yes, I work with my family. I too have a sense of family. Family against family, here is the main adversary Vito Vitale, a fearsome killer. He participated in particular strangled and dissolved in acid. The mafia boss is serving a life sentence. Except that the Vitale family still reigns over the region. So, Pino Maniaci decided, today, These still standing walls were those of a farm. The Vitale family had built it This farm was People did not dare to approach, except to come and pay allegiance or to do Pino Maniaci wants His fight began two years ago by an anti-mafia demonstration on site. Pino is campaigning. As a result, local authorities reacted and ordered the demolition. The contractor responsible received threats. So he stopped the work. So, for his mid-day newspaper, Pino relaunches the case How is this possible? that a child of the mafia by completely ignoring I denounce Leonardo Vitale, son of Vito, for this new abuse. Because the two sons of Vito Vitale, aged 16 and 21, One of them attacked Pino, The journalist has since been placed under escort. Back in Palermo, Colonel Manucci's Men have not yet launched an operation The colonel paces. He watches the screens. He hopes that the alleged mafia leaders in the automatic car wash, At the other end of town, trying to remain What is the biggest difficulty? This is their territory here. It's hard not to get noticed. You have to keep moving, otherwise they'll figure it out. Are there any indicators? Yes, they ride scooters. A piece of information comes in. Not far from here, the carabinieri have just under the pretext of a simple traffic check. They try to keep it Was he stopped by a patrol? Yes, it simulates He was riding without a helmet, but that's not why 6:44 p.m. Finally, things are moving. Two men on a scooter arrive at the car wash. It's them! It's them, They are talking. Go there quickly! Sanson is leaving. Hurry up, there are two of them on a scooter, Go ahead, go ahead. Go ahead. Carabinieri will arrest then enter to question Did you have Sanson? In a white shirt, He is 33 years old, Here are his two companions, aged 21 and 38. Okay, do we have them all? OK, great. We send the rest. We can move on to the second phase: The second team is ordered by uniformed carabinieri. The man didn't suspect anything, the men There remains another question, this one more complicated. Is this a dangerous area? Yes, it is dangerous where organized crime is very present. There are some who can come and lend a hand to the mafia. The neighbors, the family... They may try to intervene Two carabinieri cars Here, the narrow streets As always, when arresting the situation is experienced Why are you filming it? They were in shock, In Palermo, when the carabinieri they must return An ambush is always possible. After investigations and a tense afternoon, The meat mafia is dismantled. The colonel of the carabinieri is displaying his flag. He will tell Yes, it went as planned, but they made us sweat The alleged racketeers of the Palermo butcher shops are now being questioned. In their indictment, They risk 15 years in prison, financed a drug trafficking operation. Suspects and police but between them, One of the leaders is surprised that his brother My brother, then? Did that surprise you? Me too, imagine. Yet I saw his name in the file. Yes, at the beginning, but not at the end. The judge liked it. He doesn't love me? Come on, be good. Tonight, the 12 alleged mobsters Outside, everyone is ready It's a Cosa Nostra tradition. Relatives come to greet Without siren. I said no siren! Between the barracks and the prison, Families provoke the police. That evening, If arrests have been increasing it's because the authorities have seized belonging to Lo Piccolo, We find Commissioner De Santis, head of the anti-mafia brigade. Thanks to the archives of Lo Piccolo arrested in the fall of 2007, This policeman was able to understand how All the secrets of the mafia, They are called pizzini. When they are sent, pizzini look like small cylinders. I'll show you Here we write the message. Then we roll it up as tightly as possible. We fold it. Both Lo Piccolo and Provenzano, wrote on the outside a number before securing the ticket with tape. This means of communication is very archaic, but very effective, to be sure that no one These reconstruction images show how mafia members pass pizzini from hand to hand. Invented a decade ago, to foil the wiretapping, to reach their recipient. In these missives, we talk about everything, of future marriages or murders, or even rules to follow. It is incredible that in 2008, is still exactly the same Since there still exists We found it and Salvatore Lo Piccolo. We don't look at our friends' wives, we do not frequent taverns we must be available even if our wife gives birth. This is how the secrets of Cosa Nostra but the mafia has not said its Welcome to Telejato newspaper. Despite the kicks, punches and aggression, Pino Maniaci is still there, A black eye, by one of Vitale's sons, No matter what happens, to inform you. Despite the risks, he continues his fight against the clan. A carabinieri car follows him Here we enter a very, very hot zone. Pino, a target for the mafia, is also in the shoes of the hunter. A few kilometers away, he spotted the opportunity for him to drive the point home. Here it is called the canton of Vernazza. It is a farm, who does not belong to the Vitale clan. The owners are They live in Palermo that a farm has been built Just imagine, they had installed 700 meters of cables Pino would like to shake up the passivity of the Sicilians. Through his reports, he tries to share his indignation, to awaken their pride. Is it possible that one day, we free ourselves from this weight How can a 20 year old, 21 year old boy, Can he impose so much terror? You have the answer. But if we continue like this, on our land, is that nothing has changed Did you hear what he said to me? My son tells me to prepare myself Because today, with this report, we're clearly going to piss them off. Still escorted by the police, It's 12:35 Yes, it went well. Let's hope it goes well. His escort accompanies him The Telejato newspaper lasts two hours. It would be the longest in the world. Editing, editing room, recording studio: This is the kingdom of DIY. Some say that it's a miracle. The whole family participates his son Giovanni, 20, and his daughter Letizia, 23. I was 15 when I started. I got into it little by little. Is it hard to work with dad? He has a bit of a difficult character. Did you correct the text on the fifth repentant? It's done ? Perfect. Telejato is an associative television who lives thanks Pino embarked on the adventure somewhat by chance. I took it over in 1999. It was a political party TV. Almost for fun, that idiot Pino Then we started This game is his whole life today. Leti, I don't like it. Put it more in the center. Perfect. Wait, let me make myself beautiful. The hair, the tie. We put our ties back in place. Because some say that It's the anti-mafia that's on the air. Here we go. &quot;2:15 p.m., the news begins.&quot; "You just heard it." &quot;Today, exclusively, images This report exposes him more His children, worried, know it even if dad continues to show off. What's wrong with you, are you scared? You are sick. Come on, let me go! She worries about her dad. Letizia is right to be afraid, because Pino and his family but the journalist will win his case. A month after filming, This required the intervention of the army. An army, that's the last straw, In Sicily, two precautions are better than one, because to preserve their farms, For a member of Cosa Nostra, He can be the head of an empire, his most precious possession, the symbol For 10 years, Salvatore cultivates agricultural land confiscated from mafiosi. A hundred hectares in all, A few weeks ago, but neighbors saw it, If there had been no one, The members of his cooperative have never received death threats. The police do not consider it necessary but the situation is not easy. We are not We are a cooperative So, we have millions Anything can happen to us and our lands. Strange atmosphere, big mafia bosses, still live right next door. We are going to one of our fields. It is a field that is surrounded inside his farm. Here we are. Every time we go to work, We have the usufruct of the road. When we meet him, we greet each other. To cultivate these lands, Salvatore's cooperative, receives help from volunteers They are students, sometimes even high school students. Come on, let's take the picks. Just arrived, and we're eating? Chiara is one of the volunteers. She lives in Florence and is 17 years old. I came because in Florence, but nobody does anything. I thought, &quot;Let's go see what it's really like.&quot; It is an active way Despite their good intentions, twice as much work for Salvatore. These are tomatoes. You don't see them? Open your eyes! Among these volunteers, It's not easy to change mentalities. We are working on it, but Sicilian culture is still backward. There is still a lot of fear. They don't dare show Even though some young people would like to come, There are three cooperatives They all face the same difficulties. We meet Vincenzo, the Palermo restaurateur who named For more than two years, 24 hours a day, he is escorted In Italian, we call this &quot;una vita blindata&quot;, an armored life. The restaurateur would have to forget Palermo, but he doesn't want to leave, This is the Cathedral of Palermo. It is one of the most beautiful in Europe. I really like my city. It is a beautiful city, thanks to the foreign dominations In a month, Vincenzo will testify Today, five police officers As for Pino Maniaci, His car was set on fire. Even more serious, a stranger while he was riding his motorcycle. He narrowly escaped. Eight journalists have been killed She has a horrible youth, always working, She can't take it anymore. The Maniaci family continues its already exemplary fight. As proof, the recent story of a viewer of Telejato, victim of a mafia attack, who broke the omerta by quoting Pino. This man went He said: &quot;I came to denounce the boss, Antonio Nania, who tried to kill me,&quot; &quot;because Telejato taught me These are things that move. That means They'll have to kill me to stop me. Let's hope that doesn't happen. You managed to make me cry. Okay, come on.