It has been called the most divisive ranked in both the top best and time. Some have said they've "always hated "sexist" and even "horrible" "a horrible book" The Giving Tree. It's the Giving Tree. I either time ago and from then until now it never occurred While a tragic story might make you feel bad it hear a story and re-write it altogether, like which is exactly what Topher Payne did in "The Tree is a modern day parable, one that touches from self sacrifice, abusive relationships, the life and love itself. Exploring the history and I would have never discovered otherwise And speaking of trees. (I'm sorry) This video is sponsored kitchen island with several ancestors in it we don't have any idea who most of them are. It can search through 20 billion historical dates and it will start to fill in your family Discoveries is a way for new people to be added to and with a click of a button over 40 people So this is our family tree website Cora _________ Well I found, like, a baby picture. And I can even enhance and colorize this. I found a match confirmed and Weird... seems to be this really big thing. What I know from the _____ side is that were known for being great speakers. If this kind of family sleuthing interests you, sign up for a 14-day free trial all MyHeritage has to offer. Shel Silverstein's life and work was full of to write for children and detested most children's and I do mean all kinds. He made cartoons for the Playboy Mansion, and was a close friend of to have kids, but had two children later in life. juvenile, and somber and mature, sometimes within cute and endearing to surreal and outright gross seemed to follow him everywhere, from the very and Stripes during his time in the military, to poetry books are his most recognizable works and playwright. Writing hits for people like He was also a singer and produced multiple albums, but his singing voice was often pretty grating. and after you've been having steak for a long time beans beans taste fine and after you've been drinking champagne and brandy you're gonna settle for wine He was fully dedicated to his art and was deeply involved in the production of all his works, to the arrangement and layout of the pages hated to give commentary on the messaging of his Giving Tree, his most famous single work, is: one gives and the other takes. It has a pretty a message. It started out to be a good book but it is for children. I would like adults to enough in it." If we are to analyze The Giving author ends there, but we can get a lot more After traveling the world for Playboy and one of Shel's friends, a children's book author first book would be called Lafcadio: The Lion long story about a Lion who eats a hunter and gun and slowly adapts to living like a human. fit into human or lion society. The book ends where Lafcadio simply...walks away to be alone Tree would be published just one year later. a decade after The Giving Tree, a rolling circle for its "missing piece", singing and exploring piece, it rolls along and can no longer stop to rolls away, still searching for fulfillment. In we get the perspective of a piece, which searches circle that it can roll along by itself, wearing its own. These are simple stories, often They communicate a message that both children and The illustrations facilitate this philosophy trend in the 60s where children's books were children: "I think the last thing a kid wants to see is Kids want to get into detail in drawings&quot; A long time ago before I had any knowledge in because he made shaky lines and so did I. Contrary his books. The reality, however, is that drawing exaggeration, requires extreme skill, shaky reportedly often drew without under-sketches or draw. One of my favorite examples of his drawing a person riding a front facing bicycle, with the the energy of the feet on the pedals, and the whole thing, is incredibly difficult. Or take younger sister for sale, look at the crazy pose mouth takes up nearly all of the head, the feet space is formed by the sister at the end of this restrained and somewhat stiff to more and more but he always maintained hints of his signature using white space, an extreme example of this cartoons in Different Dances. I think this level in composition and visual storytelling. Giving Tree where entire pages are dedicated The key to the endings for Silverstein's stories missing piece, and the missing piece itself but describing anyone as "happy" or "sad" at was that "happy endings tend to alienate 'Why don't I have this happiness thing when his joy stops, that he has I am going to be doing something that dissect the meanings of his most famous book, the works he produced there is a lot that The Giving Tree starts simply enough: "Once there was a tree, and The tree is female. I would highly recommend his story in the 1973 animated video that was this other dimension of Shel's weary sounding background. You can hear the tree's voice as he "and every day the boy would come and he would and make them into crowns and play king of the forest." play with the tree. From the very beginning the he gathers her leaves, he eats her apples, and receiving the company of the boy at the same all of this despite not having a face, and no "and the boy loved the tree...very much, and boy grew older. And the tree was often alone." paragraph of text. The boy returns and the but the boy says he is "too big to climb and responds that she has no money but offers her "And so the boy climbed up the carried them away. And the tree was happy." but then comes back, the tree again asks the boy and he wants to be kept warm and he for a house. The tree responds: my house," (I always thought the tree was we never see any other trees but apparently my branches and build a house. Then you will and carried them away to build his house." whole tree. It's full size is indeterminate. The and wouldn't be able to build much of a house with be a snap shot of multiple trips. The boy leaves for a while again and comes back he says he is too old and wants to leave offers that the boy cut down her trunk to "And the tree was happy...but not really." end of the story, but it's not. apologizes and says she has nothing left to give play with her even if she did have more to give. a quiet place to sit and rest. I am very tired." and offers her stump to sit and rest on. The boy On the surface, the story is not only How can the boy be so ungrateful? Take and simply come back for more after he has a thank you? Some have suggested the story "The Taking Boy". And how can the tree, who is never receiving any compensation for this has nothing left to give, simply not just tell the This type of story is not unheard of. For widow who gave two small copper coins to a temple he considered more valuable compared to out of their abundance. But there may be it is shown Jesus was also criticizing In a Buddhist story Ryokan, a zen master, lives a thief visits and realizes there Ryokan gives him his clothes. The thief, that the moon is so beautiful he wishes In: "The Giving Tree: A Modern Day Ertharin Cousin argues that the story is about long term outcomes ultimately harms both the tree because he has been given everything and therefore the outcomes are what matter in the end. There cannot confirm whether the boy succeeds with all but does he actually make money off of them? but we don't know if he has a family or if he is The only thing we are told explicitly We are at the mercy of the narrator in The "the tree was happy." At the very beginning after each act of giving we are told when the boy chops down the tree's trunk. "And the the most confounding line in the whole book. Why third act of giving without reciprocation. Is it knows she will be left alone for a long time? that she has a moment of clarity? She realizes is simply "the tree was happy." To add to the original book that is ABSENT in the 1973 animated and so the boy cut down her trunk and he made a boat and sailed away and the tree was happy. The only other changed lines are things like removing "ands", adding some stuttering changing "swing from my branches and be fun" and other minor changes like that. This is Did they remove it for flow or something? If we take the narrator as all knowing and without deviation, then she is happy. on face value, and insert that line of doubt, (but with its relationship with the boy. We are Shel Silverstein wrote another story about Johnny Cash, is about a father who names before abandoning him at three years old eventually grow up to be a tougher man. These of truth to both of them isn't there? Shel Silverstein loves punchlines. He was even many of his songs have a line at the end that conclusion. The punchline in "A Boy Named Sue" is: And if I ever have a son... I think I'm gonna name him... Bill or George any damn thing but Sue! Many of the punchlines in his poetry books are the drawings themselves, and the poems simply don't work without them. What is the punchline in the Giving Tree? "And joke on the audience? Some propose that the story is simply a matter of perspective. If you are in as a lover, or as a parent or guardian you may If your love is powerful to the point of delusion raising a spoiled brat. If you believe in "tough in the face of hardship, without considering that objective we see the absurdity in the idea or that imposing arbitrary disadvantages on And yet--good parents do have and sometimes "tough love" is necessary in In a parenting article in the New York Times it models, and that being generous should not just a conversation parents might consider having with "Imagine that the boy were not so selfish and hadn't so quickly and completely had planted their seeds. Imagine the tree but had been surrounded by a whole forest of other now grown, returned with his own a new generation of children swinging from This is a speculative future, something Firstly, the tree is already in a forest. of the book, he does not have the foresight or trees. The world is filled with people who do not of "I need lumber for a house" what exactly do In Topher Payne's "The Tree Who Set of the story is entirely re-written. said. "I want a wife and I want children and And the tree said-- "Okay hold up. This was fine with giving you the apples to help season anyway. But no I'm not giving you a house." and the boy realizes he should be more grateful Now the story is funny. The way its put cute alternate ending. But if anyone suggests this being crude, but in comparison this sucks balls. it is not meant to make you feel happy. It's sadness. This story lacks the grace or complexity just turns it into a generic kids book. Even There has been an interpretation that The take everything from nature and if we do not give have called the book sexist because the tree, an does not show gratitude. Shel Silverstein was born of women", though he was reportedly always honest of the playboy mansion. He was probably sexist to Shel's old girlfriends I don't really know especially the animation, gives a clear motherly upholds a stereotype, a certain idea of what wholly bad or inaccurate stereotype not just for as you're approaching the story with a critical Finally, on the most extreme end, there has been of an abusive narcissistic or even sadomasochistic stumbled upon a whole ecosystem of youtube with a focus on narcissists. Thousands of videos I don't like some of these channels very psychologists whose advice and observations Some of them have questionable or no credentials, data or simply references of any kind, unlike genre. Doctor Ramani is one of the better of these Her interpretation of The Giving Tree is that in an abusive narcissistic relationship, this is analysis is fine except for this part at the The author of the book is a guy named Shel Silverstein right? And I went down the rabbit hole like &quot;who would right a book like this?!&quot; various reports I found that I again bless the internet shared that this was not a very nice guy didn't really seem to love kids so who knows what bizarre sadistic thing he was working out there in this book which is basically a story about an abusive relationship What reports? Do you have these reports? Can you show them in the video or link them in Shel Silverstein was a narcissist. He was not friendly to people he liked, and was probably somewhat sexist like I mentioned before but by if anything an abnormally socially high career full of collaborations and healthy "love" children but was perfectly capable of being though he never married and could have but he did care deeply enough to dedicate The Giving Tree likely reflected that being a little cynical. It's one thing suggestion he had some "bizarre sadistic thing irresponsible. Besides this I think Dr. Ramani's a message that prioritizes giving of oneself that reinforces this message without scrutiny However, I disagree when people say this story is ignores too many elements and simplifies others. a sad ending. The boy is never malicious. It or to cut down the branches or the trunk, but the tree always comes up with the Despite the boy getting these things he is he is clearly worn down by life at the end, he has these things and letting him out into the world end we are left with a pitiful triumph, a gentle but only as shells of their former selves. That The problem is I come at all of this with and I'm not someone who has ever been deeply people before. So I asked the two people These conversations brought me a few but for my mom re-visiting The Giving Tree was so thought provoking that after my call she Every time I visit my Grandmother she gives me her garden. She gives my mother and my brothers food we have to convince her to give us less food one day I said: "What if I gave you food? What she would actually be insulted. Because that reciprocation. She wants us to be healthy, strong, her way of showing love. From this perspective, This book has been debated a lot over video was that I set out to find an answer, of course that was hubris speaking. about the book that have been propagated the many. People feel passionately about this story My theory is that even Shel Silverstein himself, most famous story made from it's ambiguity. the birth of his daughter, his first child. really" line in the animation he recorded 7 effort to make the story a little more soothing. But maybe this is trying to fix something a great work of art, it is famous and has stood because it is obvious, but because the message of the book to be says more If there is a simple moral to the story I that only shows up when you want something and But this will happen, in part or in whole. idea of what they thought of the book. The most thought the message of The Giving Tree was. One Your child will eventually leave for long periods they will take a lot from you. You will just like they did in the past. They will and they will come back unhappy because the itself. Happiness is fleeting. Another "taken optimistically is a mother running her child can find solace in after so many years. whose child causes them to self-destruct in an you will do for love, that you would never If there is a happier note I can end on it's not impossible for a tree to re-grow is intact a new tree can sprout from the old The rules for the magical giving tree are not possible that one day the tree will return, Reminder that if family sleuthing interests you, sign up for a 14-day free trial with the link