(sirens blaring) - This week on BuzzFeed Unsolved, we cover the case of the Jamison family. A case that's as odd as it is creepy. There's a lot of weird circumstance It's the woods. - Ooh. - There's some images in - The woods are intriguing. Last time we were in the - Yeah, I didn't like that. - I didn't care for it. - Well, let's get into it. On October 8th, 2009, the Jamison family, comprised of Bobby Dale Jamison, age 44, Sherilyn Leighann Jamison, age 40, and their six year-old daughter, were seen for the last The family, who lived in Eufaula, Oklahoma at the time of their disappearance was last seen by a man in Southeastern Oklahoma. However, the man told the family and nobody else Officially, the Jamisons to view a 40-acre plot of land that they were looking to purchase. Bizarrely, they planned in a storage container on their current property in Eufaula. - [Shane] I know a lot Tiny houses! You've seen the tiny houses movement? - [Ryan] I don't think they - Well, a storage container is tiny. They're going to live in it. - But you're thinking of it-- - Being like decked out, a cool use of the space. - Yeah. - I think this was like, let's throw some sleeping bags in - That's it? I'm just saying, if hey, we're bringing this container all the way over from clearly there was something that was maybe luxurious - Okay sure, yeah. That's fair. - That's fair. That's fair. I'll take it. - [Ryan] On October 16th, eight days after the Jamisons were last seen alive, the first major discovery (birds chirping) (rustling leaves) Hunters in a remote location in the woods, about a quarter mile last known location, abandoned and still locked. (wind blowing) (footsteps) (creepy music) Inside the truck, investigators Sherilyn's purse, jackets, 32 thousand dollars cash in a bank bag stashed below the driver's seat, and finally, the who was malnourished and Bobby's cell phone found in the truck contained a photo of his daughter Madison, which was believed to have been taken the day before they disappeared. One key observation was no evidence of any kind of struggle. Former Latimer County would eventually state, quote, I think they were forced to to meet with someone they recognize. And I think they either End quote. (gravel crunching) - [Shane] Signs that point to them maybe leaving on their they seem, possibly, If they're living in a storage container-- - [Ryan] Though, if you why wouldn't you take your dog with you? - That's what I'm saying which would make me think as if someone had them at gunpoint, maybe they'd leave the dog. Because you bring that dog with you, that's very handy in a survival situation, depending on what kind of dog it is. - Also, at gunpoint, you're not really in the position to make demands. You can't be like, could - What about Maisie? - [Ryan] The GPS unit in the had been farther up a nearby where their truck and Investigators followed and it's there that they found footprints. One day later, on October 17th, over 300 people, including formed a large-scale air Unfortunately, the leads went cold, and the search for the Which brings us to the case's second major and unfortunate discovery. On November 16th, 2013-- (rustling leaves) (crickets chirping) (rustling leaves) (creepy music) Hunters were out scouting in the deep woods, when they stumbled upon the partial skeletal of two adults and one child. The remains were discovered from where the Jamisons had disappeared over four years earlier. The search by officials that followed would uncover shoes, bits an adult arm and leg The bones would eventually be confirmed as the missing Jamison family. - I mean, they don't know - Uh, I guess not because you would think they would have found 'cause if it was only, it was less than three miles away from the truck. - Though I've said this - The wilderness is big. - The wilderness is big. You miss things. - I guess, but not when A radius of five miles, - You think maybe they were hiding when the search was going on? - Oh, from people? - Maybe might have gone - Why would they do that? The Oklahoman state medical reported that a cause and possibly due to the fact that the skeletal remains weren't complete. Lanter stated that there though it couldn't be fully ruled out due to the incomplete remains. Lanter could also not rule out disease. There was also evidence of Lanter's final report on the case states the deaths occurred - I mean, this is a morbid thought but I've always thought that it would be nice to be given back. - Oh, to the earth? Like a recycling kind of thought? - Yeah. Just have vultures pick - That's-- - After I die. I don't want to be like, Let me go lay out in the sun. (Ryan laughs) - No, but what I was, when you said that I was picturing dying and then my body slowly and beautifully - I want, no I want animals-- - To be tearing my meat. (Ryan laughs) - You want a vulture - It's kinda neat. - [Ryan] Other items worth are a missing briefcase and registered to Sherilyn Jamison, both of which were never found. Let's provide some background on the two Jamison parents, Both Bobby and Sherilyn were not working at the time of their and were receiving disability cheques. Bobby was on disability due though one thing worth noting Connie Kokotan, stated of any settlement from the car accident that might explain the 32 found in the Jamisons' truck. Neither Kokotan nor anybody else know where this money came from. Former sheriff, Israel Beauchamp, while on the investigation, doesn't appear to be any were in trouble or looking End quote. One odd wrinkle to the taken outside the Jamison home. The footage, according to Daily Mail, was from the day that they left and showed the couple between the car and their home as they methodically packed to leave. They were moving in a described as, quote, trance-like. On the video, sometimes they - If I'm packing all my things and I'm getting ready go off the grid, that's a big commitment. - Yeah. Yeah. - So if I'm loading up my I'm probably going to And in the middle of it, I might stop. - Have a couple pregnant pauses. - Look at the sunset. Think, what am I doin'? What am I doin', man? - [Ryan] Beauchamp also said, through an investigation and one by one, start to eliminate certain scenarios. We haven't been able to With this family, End quote. And with that, let's (creepy music) the family simply got lost in the woods and died from hypothermia and exposure. In the days following their disappearance, the area where the Jamisons were last seen experienced heavy rains, albeit not rains strong enough to cause their deaths. A glance at the Farmer's in the area at that of merely 40 degrees at the coldest. As a reminder, the bodies were found only 2.7 miles from their truck. - If you're two miles away from your car, and you go, oh it was If you pick even the suddenly, you're way off the mark. - Why would they leave their cell phone, all their possessions, to then get back to your car? These do seem like people - Well, doesn't sound like it if-- - No, I'm talking about it, if they're looking at a plot of land to maybe live in a storage container. - But they didn't have Did they have compasses, - No, and that to me means they didn't intend to go on a trip. - If the little daughter she started running, they ran after her because obviously, holy - How fast could a daughter run? She's gonna run 2.7 miles - I don't know, if she was - How fast is this six year-old? What is she, the fucking Flash? The second theory is was a murder-suicide scenario. The investigation would that according to one and was found in the The letter is what was written from Sherilyn to Bobby in which she accused Another letter that was was also found in the family home. According to former they were certainly a End quote. However, Sherilyn's mother that Bobby and Sherilyn were good parents. Quote, like I've said I think somebody killed them. There's just no way would ever let anything happen to Madison unless something had been done to them. You have some marital - [Shane] 11 pages is - [Ryan] Yeah, but if the worst thing you say in it is you're a hermit. - [Shane] Yeah. - Also, if you're gonna why bring your daughter with you? - Yes. Though, if you're murdering not in the right frame - I suppose but the mom doesn't think so. Also, it's noteworthy that for a certain amount of time. - Oh, she did. - So, she would have - Yeah. - [Ryan] Which brings That the Jamisons were murdered by Bobby Jamison's 67 year-old Earlier in 2009, approximately six months before the family a protective order against his father. Allegedly, Bob had threatened on two separate occasions in In the petition, Bobby did not detail how his father had made the threats. He did write that Bob had, end quote, on November 1st, 2008. Bobby also wrote that Bob was who thinks he is above the law, end quote. And that he'd been involved with, quote, prostitutes, gangs and meth, end quote. Doesn't look good. - [Shane] That's not good. - No. - [Ryan] I mean that and it does seem like-- - [Shane] Seems like the kind on account of he threatened to murder-- - [Ryan] Yeah, it does seem oh, I couldn't see this coming. It was, many warnings were given. Furthermore, Bobby stated my entire family is severely End quote. And quote, I am in fear Testimonies were given in the the protective order on May 18th, 2009. Bobby Jamison was also in the process of suing his father at the time of the Jamison family's disappearance. The gist of the suit was work for free at his father's gas station, where half the sales had but were never paid. Though, Bobby and Sherilyn quote, scammers, end quote, As they had also previously sued three others in 2005 after a car accident. Moreover Jack Jamison, Bob claimed that Bob Dean was, end quote, Jack was, quote, pretty sure he was not capable of being - [Shane] You wish these stories had a black and white to 'em. - [Ryan] Yeah, right? Every time you think this - [Shane] You got this poor family, they turn up in the woods. You feel for 'em. Now suddenly they're casting because they're, what, they're scammers? - Apparently-- - [Ryan] According to the sheriff. That's his opinion. - And now we can't even trust the sheriff because you're casting doubt on him. - Well, I don't know. I mean, he seems like a He doesn't have any motive - I hate these stories, Ryan. (Ryan laughs) - I know. Bob Dean died in December 2009. Jack Jamison, like Sherilyn's mother, still suspects that in the Jamison family's death. This brings us to our that the Jamisons were murdered by a cult. (creepy music) Sherilyn's mother, Connie Kokotan, believes the Jamisons were killed by a religious cult in According to Kokotan, hit list, end quote, that Sherilyn was on. After Investigation on the Jamison family Sherilyn's close friend, Niki Shenold, said she received a phone (phone dialing) This woman reportedly told Shenold that she'd once been in that kept a book who'd been problems for them. Sometimes, this woman one of the names she had seen, she'd go home and look This had led her to multiple including Sherilyn and Bobby Jamison. Shenold said she wasn't sure - Cults, I don't know. Cults, cults are out there. I wouldn't initially - No, it just sounds outrageous, given everything else and this when it comes to cold cases, right? - Yeah. - And then all of a A 1993 article in the Oklahoman had sprung up around Eastern Oklahoma, though a US marshal named there hasn't been any End quote. It's also been suggested that the Jamisons were into witchcraft. (whispering) A quote, witch bible, end quote, was reportedly found in the Jamison home. (creepy music) (papers rustling) Though, Niki Shenold claims bought the witch bible as a joke. That being said, their pastor in Eufaula, Gary Brandon, claims Bobby confessed that he was reading a, quote, Additionally, mysterious on the large storage container kept on the Jamisons' property. One line read, quote, three cats killed to date by people in this area. Witches don't like their black cat killed. End quote. There was a witch bible Which was written off as a joke, sure. But then-- - [Shane] Funny, funny joke. - But the husband-- (laughing) A witch bible! - [Ryan] But then the husband himself has admitted he was so obviously it was not a joke. - Maybe she brought the witch bible home and then was like, ha ha! Witch bible! Witch bible, waka waka. And then he was like, ah, I'm gonna read that. - Oh, and then late at he puts on his little-- what are you reading? And he was like, ah! Funny book. - [Ryan] Sherilyn's mother also reported some odd behavior from her daughter. Quote, she became very illogical. One day she drove me to Oklahoma City and dropped me off on the street. She told me, get (beat) out of my car. So, I did. End quote. - [Shane] Get (beat) out of my car. - [Ryan] Yeah, that was - Get out. (Ryan laughs) You don't do that to your mother. - No, I mean and that but could it also be because - Yeah. - Your head gets kind of lost in a fog when you're involved in some - Yeah. - Also, my mom was the kind of mom who, if I said that to her, And secondly, I'd have to get out, so. - Yeah my mom once stopped the car and told me and my brother to get out. - Oh, shit. We're just kidding. We're not fighting. - What did you do to prompt that response? - I think we were just in the backseat or something. - Yeah. - You know, classic brother stuff. - [Ryan] And of course, the main evidence of strange behavior was the where the two Jamison quote, trance-like state, end quote. The Jamisons also reportedly claimed to have two to four ghosts in their home. (creepy music) (tap running) (electricity shorting out) (creepy music) Father Gary Brandon that Bobby Jamison had once called him asking about, quote, that could be used to shoot spirits. - You're not related (Ryan laughs) You looked that up? - (laughing) No. No. But I thought, I don't in the cult theory, maybe where they believe that sort of thing. - Doesn't matter. I'm glad you included it. - It does contribute to odd behavior and, for the record, I don't Which brings us to our that drugs were involved. All of the aforementioned strange behavior from the Jamison parents by the influence of drugs. There were actually rumors were involved with drugs, and some believe that the family was involved As reported by the Oklahoman in May 2010, Sherilyn's mother, who didn't said the couple had been Pure speculation here, but in cash had something to as it makes no sense how let alone in the car - People didn't know - Mm hm. - If they were making - It would be off the grid. It would be, they're not keeping, they're not taking it to the bank and saying, this is from - They're not reporting that to the IRS. - Right. - [Ryan] Police initially suspected drugs after viewing the but former sheriff Beauchamp backing up the theory that the Yet, he also stated he could not rule out the possibility that drugs could have been somehow involved in the disappearance. To be fair, many have likely would not have taken if some kind of drug related That's fair. - [Shane] That's fair! - [Ryan] I mean, why would you take your daughter to a drug deal? - [Shane] Don't do drugs, Don't take your children or the drug deals. - Every time in this case kind of logical conclusion, - Would it be easy though the evidence of their What if they were going to, In that case, someone going to give them drugs. They've got the money that they're going to give to that person. Though I don't know why that - Oh, and there's our - Maybe the person was Not with her around. - So, instead I'm going and leave the money? - Maybe just chased 'em. - But I can't wrap my head and then the daughter being there. That doesn't make any sense. - Maybe the person didn't - But they're going to a drug deal, of course they would - Maybe they tried and they didn't realize they they hand it over, the guy opens it up and he's like, where's the cash? And they go, yipes! And they run into the woods. - And then he goes, no - It's like I said, there's - [Ryan] Former sheriff Beauchamp has said that there were no suspects in the case. While investigating the disappearance, Beauchamp was quoted as saying, quote, a lot of investigators would love to have as many leads as we do. The problem is that they point in so many different directions. End quote. Perhaps one day, those leads will point in one clear direction. But for now, the case remains unsolved.