PETER NORVIG: Welcome It's our pleasure to have today, Daniel Dennett. He has a long and distinguished I won't try to summarize You can Google it. [LAUGHTER] PETER NORVIG: Instead, I'll briefly the book that he's talking about today, which tool kit for thinking. And I think the reason I think because a lot of it It's these computational tools granted, but Dan is trying to world who sometimes aren't to think like that. And so what do I mean by that? Well, in his 1995 book on &quot;Life on Earth has been years by an algorithmic natural way for us to think for other people And some people don't quite and lots of small steps that you with this result. And other philosophers, who we approach, well look at these And if I simulate the steps don't get there. So it must be magic. Rather than saying, well, maybe is actually qualitatively So Dan reminds us how He also reminds us that there that aren't implicit in any one yet they come out in the end. We're all familiar with that. Our programs have emergent that we didn't expect. And we bang our heads So we're aware of it. But the rest of the So that's why they need I just want to talk about And this is the using lay So this is a trick if you have not explaining all the details, to explain a few you say, oh, lecture to this introductory And then it will become more will have to work harder to get than trying to keep it at the One of our Google employees Rob talked about a similar Instead of calling it the lay called it the teddy Which is, there was a programming for which the And there was always a long waiting to get in to talk with didn't work. So what they instituted was a outside their office. Before you were allowed to talk talk to the teddy bear. And so the students would come program doesn't work. And it must work because this more than one. Oh, except, oh, never mind. And it turns out the teddy bear half the problems. And people didn't have So I think that's sort of And Dan will tell you about DANIEL DENNETT: Thanks, Peter. That's a great introduction. I'm going to add It occurred to me as you were that probably explains the right there. You can replace them with get the same results. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. DANIEL DENNETT: Yeah, Teddy So I want to talk about better One of my best students, a Swede said, &quot;You can't do much hands, and you can't do much brain.&quot; He hits the nail on It's obvious, in a way, when something as simple as It's a thinking tool. And these thinking tools have And recently we've learned tools are having a remarkable How many of you know what Oh, a few of you do. And the rest of you, all right, about the Flynn effect. Jim Flynn, it's named after him, one that did the He's the one who drew people's It turns out that IQ And it's up a significant If you use today's test, if you who got 100 back in the '30s And we'd be viewed as I mean, there's a big jump. It's like 20 or 30 IQ points. Of course, IQ tests are always But if you use the same test gotten a lot better at And it has nothing directly to schooling or your genes. It's a very large effect. And it can't be due to we're talking about such Jim Flynn thinks-- and That doesn't mean he's right, be said for it-- that what's tools that are first developed scientists and engineers and have been filtering down into Even as simple an idea Which kids, you just pick And 50 years ago, 100 years complicated concept for They just weren't And so probably it's all these without even realizing We install in on our own brains Probably that is a main source And certainly that is the thesis in any case. Because what I'm doing in this discovered that a lot of my unselfconscious about the Weird because philosophers are reflective and navel-gazing. But a lot of them don't minute, how do I do that. And why do I think that's a What tools am I suing? And I wanted them to become I want everybody to become more tools that they use. So what kind of thinking There's words, as I say. And numbers, of course. And diagrams and maps And intuition pumps. Which is a term I coined years ago to describe-- well in the first instance it Chinese room. And since I was beating up on people thought I thought that No, I think they're wonderful. It's just got to There's defective pumps. And there's good ones. And the way you tell the reverse engineering. Doug Hofstadter came up with the turn all the knobs on an makes it do its work. You want to try out Nothing mysterious about Is just Mill's method You're just empirically testing make what differences. See how robust the intuition And sometimes they're remarkably variations in the way Then you know it's probably Not doing what you So what intuition pumps And it's important that So much good thinking is competitive environment where interlocutor, a target, that P persuade me that not P. And actually a good way, getting at the truth. So they're also discoverers. They're attention-holders. And they're anchors for In my work in philosophy there That's the point a philosophy. Philosophy is what you're doing sure what the right questions And everything is up for But how do you proceed then? You say, well, maybe this as discussion. And then you sort of put And here's one here. And here's one here. And then you say, take those on board. What can we do with this idea fixed points? One thing you may do with them or throw out one against It's in this intellectually There's no algorithms for doing This is an informal exploratory there are really no rules. But intuition pumps are harrowing circumstances. Here's one that isn't in the a lot recently and I think it's the context. The MacCready explosion. This is Paul MacCready. How many of you know Oh well good. I can educate you about that. You will know him, not by name, &quot;Gossamer Albatrosss.&quot; The greenest of green Wonderful guy. Died a few years ago. And in a Ted talk a few years following startling Let's go back 10,000 years to At that point, human beings beginning to domesticate animals And at that point, our species, these are, of course, entirely At that point 10,000 years ago, side of the balance scale livestock, all the domesticated one side, including us. And you put all the rest of the the other side. Animals, not the insects, not He calculated that at that time, our livestock accounted for a the terrestrial vertebrate What do you think the Any guesses? AUDIENCE: 10%. DANIEL DENNETT: 10%. AUDIENCE: Over 50%. DANIEL DENNETT: Over 50%. AUDIENCE: 99%. DANIEL DENNETT: 99%, No it's 98%. It is 98%. We human beings have engulfed This is one of the most phenomena that has And here's what Paul &quot;Over billions of years on a painted a thin covering complex, improbable, wonderful, Suddenly we humans have grown in intelligence to a position of the paintbrush.&quot; I've highlighted the technology because those are the The only difference between us years ago is the We have the same genes. We have pretty much the The same muscles. The same brains. The thinking tools have changed this power possible. It is the source of our power. Which raises a sort of Did evolved tools Or did we evolve to become smart And like all good chicken the answer is yes. It's a coevolutionary, you have a little evolution And then we can be smarter We became can become self the tools we make. Our ancestors weren't They didn't invent words. They didn't coin words. They just found themselves And it made them smarter. Now we are very deliberate. We have become intelligent But initially we weren't designers of tools. We were simply the beneficiaries Well how did they Not by the genes. They evolved, culturally. My next book is going evolution and that story. But I'm not going to say more to be looking today at recent supposedly intelligent designed Everybody knows reductio ad sort of crowbar of It's what you use. You take your opponent, You take your target's for the sake of argument. And then you use the crowbar. You try to deduce a And if you succeed you win. And we use it all the time Very few people, probably disguise reductio three or four You've said something like well bears have antlers. That's a reductio. You'll find yourself Now why do I bother mentioning familiar tool? Because I want to point out that questions you're not Many of them, not all of them, fact, disguised reductio They imply a reductio ad writer doesn't bother It's too obvious. It would be embarrassing. So you just get the rhetorical nudge you go on. So what I want to do is to Sort of like a Google alert. So that whenever you see a argument, ding. You think, ah rhetorical You look to see, maybe Maybe there is a perfectly I remember years ago seeing a next to last frame Charlie Brown what the difference is between last panel says, &quot;I will.&quot; and rhetorical question but See if you can do that. A similar thing is what I Whenever you see the should ring, ding. Let me just give you one. Oh, yes, you could make a by its color, but surely Surely no computer could ever appreciate color When you hear that surely now maybe you think, I go That's got to be right. Actually in this audience I don't think that's so obvious. [LAUGHTER] DANIEL DENNETT: Why surely? Well the author wants to get proposition that follows Thinks it's true. Thinks it's obvious. But it's not quite obvious goes without saying. If it did you wouldn't It would go without saying. It goes with saying, but he So he gives you just a little So be on the lookout. I tested my hunch about through, thanks to Google. Thanks to string search. Going through some dozens of were online. Counting up the surelys. Most papers don't have the But I found several dozen And about 1/3 of them were I was the weakest place on This is the place you So now if I've alerted questions and on surely. Another one is rathering, As in, it's not the case Rather it's ta da da da. Rathering signals a dichotomy. And very often it singles a should do is, again, alarm ring for rathering. When you see the word rather if you can't say, well blah and da da da. That hasn't been asserted. It's just been presupposed with the word rather. So if I get you to adopt these I've installed an app [LAUGHTER] DANIEL DENNETT: And I The thing between your ears And I don't have to tell you computer is the apps And you can build and build and apps on top of apps. That's what the thinking And that's what makes A CPU without an operating very much with it. You start building up all the power comes from. I don't have to tell you that par excellence. And in the book I put computers in the book. And then Peter, I'm happy to everybody who reads the book to more basic understanding computers get their power. One of the things I do, and I think that's probably the only have this feature. In this chapter called, &quot;The Power revealed,&quot; I teach register machine. A Hao Wang simple register increment and decrement And they teach it how And then they teach it how And there's problem sets. I've actually got some simple And I say, well you don't have you really want to understand. If you want to be a computer what it is. And, of course, they They learn about counters. They learn about all That they hear these words in they know what they mean. Now they're going to know The reason I think that's so I'm preaching to the choir important epistemological facts if you can make a computer something that works. You know to a moral certainty, There's no morphic resonance. There's no psionic forces It's good old-fashioned, hardened, honest causation. And you just got a proof the computer itself. That's what it is. There's no place for any mystery But people shouldn't just They should know in their and how it's true. And that's what that section Some intuition pumps don't they're just images. I love this one. This is from my friend Matt biologist and journalist. And it just startles But what points can I'll just make one On the left you see an On the right, I don't have The Acheulean hand-axe was made any discernible stylistic Without any discernible over a million years. Absolute stasis. Amazing. Some people have even thought at all, maybe it was like Maybe it was, hey, you want to I am so good that I can make still get enough to eat, Bragging. Sort of like having something like that. But notice at the one on the us, it probably has a rather How many bet that there in a hundred years? Right, point made. Now here's a similar On the left we have Australian termite castle. And on the right we have Sagrada Gaudi church in Barcelona. As I think you can see, they're structures. And even internally, if you look a lot of design features that These are two remarkable And yet, for all their glance that they are the different histories of design The one on the left is, this is and construction. The termite, the individual hardly be more clueless. They don't know what There's no boss termite. There's no architect. There's no blueprint. There's no leadership roles. There's no hierarchy. This is bottom up activity. And it produces that. Whereas Gaudi, it's He was like a cartoon the inspired genius. Autocratic, dictatorial, He had blueprints He had accounts of everything. And he bossed people around. And he told the bosses how Classic case of hierarchical Here is one way of looking at evolution and cultural evolution How did our planet get from How did we get from termite type I think the answer has to be, bare brain. He had all those And those thinking tools are down, as it were, intelligent What Darwin showed us is we designer that lots of bottom up, trial and error, will eventually wonders of the biosphere. But then the process keeps with cultural evolution. And pretty soon it starts And we get more and more To where we now have people like than Gaudi, because he Who notice, when he built his of concept. He had the blueprint. He had the design. He proved it all. Nobody would have ever given computer if he hadn't proved This is where the idea really That's intelligent design. And we've got to explain how it the fruits of evolution. Because it wasn't the cause. The Bible says in the beginning No, no, the word, very The word is the beginning The Bible is right about that. Another thinking tool which is lovely picture. And, by the way, this is Leonard the Tree of Life. And you can get it on t-shirts, that you put up in There's all sorts of ways you go to his website. And what I love about it, representing the tree of life. This has a few nice features. I just want to sort of point I ran out of battery OK. There's no other pointer I'll just do it like this. Here's a pointer. A thinking tool! Right here on the end How wonderful. So time goes out radially. Here's the birth of the earth. Here's the birth of life, And as you can see, the bacteria the first single-celled And then we have a period of This is a great, great, great It's the eukaryotic When the endosymbiotic event together they joined more powerful thing. This is technology transfer. This is what happens when you They've been evolving for a billion years. And now they join forces. They don't all have to They get the benefit of those eukaryotic cells. All the rest of life You've heard of the Cambrion There it is. In a very short period of time different kinds of life. A period of fantastic How was it explained? That's a story I'd love to tell, You can see mass extinctions. And then way over here, this about 7 million years Which is about the length of ancestor with our nearest And, of course, of that seven years at most has Some people will push it The Acheulean hand-axe comes Some people think that's But so now notice, Cambrion Fabulous. The MacCready explosion And transforms the planet. All thanks to thinking tools. So now, a few recent intuition Because I haven't really These are these little So here's an intuition pump I neuroscientists and cognitive around saying I think what neuroscience teaches So first a little Damiaan Denys, a very brilliant Amsterdam, has made a little obsessive-compulsive disorder. You implant it in a Really does a very good job. Science fiction. So one day this guy with OCD And she implants one microchips in his brain. Sews him up. The anaesthesia wears off. And as he's about to leave she She says, oh and by the way, you 24 hours a day, seven control room here. And you're going to think You're going to think you're But, in fact, we're going decisions for you. Free will is just an Have a nice life, goodbye. And he believes her. Well, shiny lab, lab And as you might imagine he his habits. And a little bit aggressive. And indulges in some of And soon enough he gets in Gets hauled into court, fairly serious crime. He says, but Your Honor. I don't have free will. How do know that? Well my neurosurgeon told me, It feels like I'm making these So they call the neurosurgeon and ask her to testify. And under oath she says, Yeah, But it was just a joke. I was just messing Now how many of you agree that thing, a socially irresponsible But she did very serious With her language, she did do surgically. She disabled him as By just convincing him that Now I ask my neuroscientist the same thing wholesale? When you write these articles neuroscience that we don't The reason they say that turns Having to do with, well determined by what happens a little bit before. Yeah, of course. So what? That doesn't show you don't They have a very simplistic But it's the idea that would responsibility. If you didn't have it you responsibility. But they're not showing And I think that's Now you might say, well, if your then you don't have free will. How many of you are inclined your brain is determined then The general run of people think obviously true. So here's a little dissuade you from that. Two lotteries. In lottery A the winning ticket tickets are sold. Most lotteries are like that. In Lottery B the winning ticket tickets are sold. And the stub is secretly put until the tickets are sold. Now how many of you think that in Lottery B? That only lottery A gives you How many think that Yeah. And so does most of the When you put in these terms. They recognize that, chance either way. And Publishers Clearing House already have won. People see that they still have tickets are chosen in advance. But now think, if determinism is tickets were chosen before At the Big Bang, if you like. And sort of put in on a little And as life goes on, whenever you need a little chaos, you the envelope and you win That's just as free as if happens right then and there. So what if they're Well somebody might say, well tickets are chosen before you're to have good luck on and bad luck on others. You're determined. Well that's true even if Even if indeterminism is true, occasions to win and some don't know which. Fairness isn't always winning. You've got to accept the And that luck is consistent But a lot of philosophers A very good one, David Wiggins, ago about what he called the determinism. And you can see, or many people a bummer if determinism But I want to ask what about indeterminism? Just as bad. You know. Life isn't always a picnic. That doesn't mean that we can't Being a responsible agent, that matters, has zip to do deterministic or Or whether your brain indeterministic. Has to do with the software It has to do with the competence installed in your brain since If you were trained with a good, you make the right decisions time most the time. And you are, in general, screw up, you are held Why? Because you're good enough That's a long story. I'm not going to say Time to quit this talk. So the book is sort There are 77 chapters. And some of them are Some of them there are maybe And they each introduce a tool I tried to make them all So my recommendation Take them for a spin. And above all, turn all the Thanks for coming. [APPLAUSE] DANIEL DENNETT: Questions? AUDIENCE: Hello. So intelligent design domains than others. We can design a very nice mobile When it comes to an economy, far we've yet to show we can intelligently design an economy. Do you have, well First of all, what you think the are not very tractable to And do you think eventually all right tools in order to DANIEL DENNETT: No, I think other people have described Natural selection is And it feeds on chaos and But it works, remember, And there's an awful And it's a very wasteful Very wasteful way of You've got to have a And so that's what happens, And to that extent, that grubby line about how the survival of some truth to it. But that doesn't mean that we make that a moral principle. Because I think we have very unfettered, completely chaotic, dog-eat-dog economy is Too much harm can accrue. You can get these winner which can be very bad. You know about winner You know about opponent In the work that I've been organized, I think, first of But they're very, very different Precisely because you've or 200 million neurons. Each one is like a They actually have their There's no two alike. And the way software works in coalitions and getting them And unity is an achievement, But it isn't built in And once we think about the way, we should think that's built in that way too. Without too much top down policing to protect us from the would accrue. AUDIENCE: Could you give your DANIEL DENNETT: Yeah. Do you know what Newcomb's This is the one boxer OK, so you've got. First I'm going to have See if I can get it right. So you're on a sort of quiz following weird choice. You could be a one boxer, or In one box there's a $1,000. In the other there's $1 It would be hard enough if you box B. Would you take a chance for the sure $1,000? But that's not your choice. Your choice is either to go either got the $1 million Or to go from boxes. Got it? Well one line of research, one dummy, of course you That way at least you get $1,000 million and $1,000. That dominates decision That's the one you should do. And so it would be, except The MC of the program tells you, the 5,000th contestant And we're very good at going to be a one boxer And if we predict that you're choice, then there's only the the $1 million. We only put the $1 million in going to go for one box. And do you want to know It's almost perfect. They might add, well you know, and it was empty, or box And one lucky devil out of 500 got both rewards. But in general it's a very correlation. So now I ask you. How many of you go And how many of you go What's nice about Newcomb's obvious at all. And an awful lot of ink has clear about this. And I have, myself, not spilled still don't have a I tend to think there must be about the setting up of this But it's very hard And I highly recommend There's a lot of good things So I'm sorry I can't answer I go back and forth. Some days I'm a one boxer, some AUDIENCE: I wanted determinism versus free will. Since you were talking And, in particular, I think lover's disparity there. That determinism is kind of a then free will. I wondered if you could DANIEL DENNETT: Yeah Doug this over the years. And Doug disagrees with me. It's one of the few points where disagreement. And he's actually quite thinks that the sense of free one that we can't have because And I've done my level best in to convince him otherwise Unlike the fellow in my tale, it in a irresponsible way. So there's at least to I think that Doug-- here's what I think That the term free will. Where does it come from? It comes from every day. It comes from the law It's not a scientific term. It's a term you get from what's image, in philosophy. The world of colors baseball and so forth. Not the world of neurons and that matter, scientific laws. When you look at it's home see it does two jobs. And they both seem to be On the one hand, it seems means uncaused, it There's no sufficient For many people I think that's will means. But the other thing it means is for being morally competent. For instance, how many of you eligible, to buy a car Yeah. And you sign the paperwork Now there are people who don't They're senile or they're There's something you've got And it is your very condition of a citizen and conducting count and so forth. I think that's the best That's the one that matters. And I think that notion determinism. For instance, I don't think contract would be disparaged determinism were true. So I have argued for years prefer that your brain indeterministic. No reason at all. No good reason. I've recently had to back off persistent lover of who finally showed me that there condition where I would I would wish for indeterminism And I'll tell you what it is. You all know the game Well the best way to course, is to play random. It's very hard to fake a random series. If you're random you give you to track at all. So they can't do any better than You'll break even. So since that's the case, you few hundred entries in a table to guide your choices. You'll do fine as long as guy see your list. Which would be terrible. So now I can tell you, here's would hope that indeterminism If I were playing stakes with God. I don't really anticipate that am quite content to live out world and I'll take even though they are, for all I the kazillion things that and after my birth. Yes. AUDIENCE: Is consciousness an biological systems and tends to across the Tree of Life? Or is it a fundamental dimension reality like the dimensions DANIEL DENNETT: OK This is sort of a rathering. You didn't say rather, of rathering there. But I'll take it on because I fundamental category that splits I think that the idea that it And I suppose it But I think that consciousness metabolism, and self repair, It's a very interestingly biological phenomenon. It is not in the interesting of consciousness. In the sense that we in this the anchoring that's home base our reading of literature. We read novels and We have the sense of what a I think we're the only creatures of conscious life. I don't think dogs have it. I don't think dolphins They're sentient. They're awake. They feel pain. But they don't have most of what so important. And I think that phenomena And I think it has So it is an implication, don't try this at home. Don't test this. That if a human baby could be interaction with other cut off from language. If it could grow to adulthood thinking tools that would course of just growing up I think that human being would different from ours that we or she wasn't really Now that may be a very consciousness. But if you're wanting to know, for a better notion of isn't so eccentric. And you start thinking The capacity to experience color qualia, as philosophers say. I think that's all pretty And I've tried to say how But part of what makes it consciousness to be, to supercalifragili And if you're not talking supercalifragili not talking about And there's a quote my friend and a magician. A very fine stage magician. Wrote a wonderful book on Indian &quot;Net of Magic.&quot; And there's a passage in He says, I tell my friends I'm they ask, do you mean And by real magic they They mean thaumaturgical And he says, no. Not real magic. Sleight of hand. Stage magic. And then he goes on, he says, magic you can actually Real magic is a kind Well what I've come to realize, been confronted with people. Because what I want to deal with people think of as real magic. Free will and consciousness And if you don't mean something proponent of it says, decision is a little miracle. If you don't think that that's not talking about free will. Not real free will. You're talking about some And I'm all for this cheesy I think they're quite And science can explain why we that are worth wanting, even if They'll secure our lives responsible and so forth. And we can have consciousness that sunders the universe very special way. Sorry it's such a long answer, AUDIENCE: What do utilitarianism and moral reasoning? DANIEL DENNETT: I'm not a an ordinary utilitarian. I don't that any. I'm a consequentialist. That is to say, I think the I'm not one who takes deontological view of ethics. Using some technical terms. I want to try to get This is an issue that's very that I'm doing right now on Because I say, no, we don't. I notoriously said in my last want to live, no in an I don't want to live in a world And these people jumped all over retributivist, you. I said, no, I'm not Kant was the great And if you want to know what know the world was going to highest duties would be to go the people on death row. By that he wanted he wanted us in itself good. That a crime unpunished nature or God or something. And that's what a retributivist thinks that punishment I don't. But I think it's a very simple reason. I want to live in a world in And you can't really have consequences for not keeping And those consequences are They're not reform. They're punishment. And it's OK. And we should all be willing to punishment. I'd rather be a free citizen I accept that if I do something eligible for punishment I think the world we live in, and order with punishment, I punishment is obscene and should But I don't think we should of the current crop of cognitive neuroscientists are saying. I don't think they've look was considered a really And that was back in the weren't punished, they I don't think we want I think we want to Because then there's rules. And you can serve your be a citizen again. An that dire note, I'll stop. AUDIENCE: There was a decision touched on some deeply The question was whether And one of the opinions, which majority support was that software are like They're tools that everybody And some particular arrangements should not be patentable. Other judges felt that if you programmed with software, And devices are clearly Do you have some wisdom DANIEL DENNETT: Well I thought And I've thought about the copyright and trade secret. And actually I'm trying to fundamental terms. Because I think that what we of information, which is information. Which depends on Shannon-Weaver but is semantic information. It's cognitive information. And, to me, the best way of it's useful information. It is information defined as transmission of adaptations for or another. And then under that view then, intuitively when we're measuring what counts as theft, we have And if it's the utility that's have penalties for that. That should be discouraged. The trouble is that copyright It's a good question. And I'm not surprised Is this at the Supreme Court? AUDIENCE: It's the Court of Circuit that handles DANIEL DENNETT: I want to I'm not surprised that I think it's a tough issue. But obviously when I talk thinking, I am thinking of these been designed. And so on that ground I would that you can patent it. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]