There is a world unlike our world. A where magic and technology vie for for a thousand years have now been uncovered - It is a world of the Alin, mystics who build the strength of their kingdom on the It is a world of the Cuoti, a jungle empire that And it is a world of the Vinci, the clockwork, who rely on ingenuity and [Music] [Music] While the Vinci are - in the present age of much of their striving is directed are at best, a loosely-connected At worst, they are a network of bitter enemies, It doesn't seem that the Vinci as their past points to a civilization Unfortunately, much of their history has been Remnants of the previous Vinci empire of the present day city-states. No effort as the Vinci seem content to build their new other cases, the ruins are destroyed as mercenaries dig mines to access deep deposits Given this lack of information, we can only In the past, the Vinci civilization was a unified advanced compared to the present day Vinci with a mind for invention, the empire's That was until one Vinci, known Not much is known regarding the Great Inventor, one responsible for pioneering the steam and civilization. The rapid adoption of the Great ultimately led to the breakup of the empire. Each the empire, whose leaders were slow to adopt In the end, the remnants of the empire were transformed into loosely joined While powerful despite their lack constantly at war with one another, which a situation that benefits the now some of whom are more than capable of building Perhaps the most well-known conflict of the Vinci was the war between the city The two city -states had always been rivals, and engineering. Both had substantial who often functioned as vassals. The war would While Miana would technically be the victor since the city itself would be razed by destruction while fleeing Vinci Sixteen (16) Vinci city- states emerged in of the most prosperous of these Miana was the home of the Great Inventor himself. The city came under attack by an army of the Dark the Kalahese Desert, this army made its way to Miana. The Great Inventor led the defense of it wasn't enough to hold back The Great Inventor made his last stand at believing his victory inevitable, ordered his quickly, the Great Inventor overloaded resulting in an explosion so powerful that forces from capturing the city at the cost of his and now lacking the forces needed to capture Though they had lost the man responsible cornerstone of their civilization, his work hearts and minds of the Vinci people, with new by the works of the Great Inventor. One of grew up in the city of Miana and would later When Giacomo was a child, his father was the away years later, Giacomo's brother, Petruzzo, untimely death at the hands of the Doge of Miana and vowed to exact vengeance Within the state's territory was Miana Vinci lands converge. The station was empire. These rail lines connect sundry they serve to link the distant mining companies At the end of the great Miana-Venucci Alessadri as he marched his remaining into the Kalahese Desert. This action with other Vinci troops led by Giacomo To the southwest of Miana is its vassel state , Miana and protection money paid to Pirata, the affairs. Much of the Padonian economy comes from At one time, Padonia had become plagued by a band These dark Alin constantly harassed caravans with help from Miana were these dark Alin bringing peace back to Just west of Padonia is Pirata, an enclave for technology for building airships, and offer region of Pirata is a mountainous jungle with and plateaus reaching toward the heavens. The and is built upon the ruins of an ancient tower, The Piratan houses aided the Doge of Venucci the nearby state of Vernazza. Afterward however, their great aerodrome by constructing a fortress Mianan's would come to Pirata's aid, lifting the Pirata provided air support to The mountains and jungles of Pirata stretch west is a contested region that is still recovering sprung up here, largely composed of citizens A couple of these settlements though one of them ended up rebelling and tried Mianan forces led by Giacomo destroyed the There's another area of Umberto called the this area now sees various mining companies moving It rains quite often in the lowlands, North of Umberto is the Condottieri Castle. This Vinci empire. The geological region the castle jungle environments of Pirata and Umberto. infighting between the Condottieri factions. only to be usurped by another During the Miana-Venucci War, two Condottieri over the castle. The Montuchi were the defenders Giacomo, successfully aided one of the two though there are conflicting records regarding To the north of Condottieri Castle is Monte region, Monte Laguna has grown fat from the rich mining operations became automated using imported However, at some point the automated owners and began attacking them. Only Vinci troops was this &quot;clockwork rebellion&quot; who turned the machines against their East of Monte Laguna is Vernazza. Vernazza is of Miana relied heavily upon. The Condottieri however, the local inhabitants grew bare and the profits shipped off to These mining companies were later troops who needed the Timonium for Northeast of Vernazza is Tarona. of Tarona was a loyal and trusted servant and later, his brother Petruzzo. However, when the Viscount withdrew Tarona from Mianan Tarona would not maintain this independent status new leader Giacomo, would remove the Viscount, West of Tarona is a region called the Rocco, strip and bore mining drab and dreary wasteland. Despite its desolate reserves, which fuel the industrial and A small group led by an engineer named With the help of Miana, the rebellion was able Venucci. Heading back west near Condottieri Castle is rugged terrain settled by stern folk who take rough terrain makes passing through this land mining companies from digging up the rich South of Corbanile is the state of Maldini, rich state of Feligno to the west. Within dried up reservoir, which oddly enough, the reservoir was once owned by Miana, with Condottieri mercenaries who guard On the hill in the middle of the reservoir village, and which may have been a fishing filled with water. Ruins of the previous empire Elsewhere in the region are the Maldini which has kept the Vinci mining companies and resources from plateau to plateau. plethora of ruins of the past Vinci empire. connecting the entrances of mines and perhaps even wealth in the form of Another location of note in the or at least what's left of this wonder of the Condottieri, who mine the region for Timonium Coliseum. As previously mentioned, to the west of Maldini the leadership of one Don Sciario, who the north. Unlike the blasted Wasteland or prosperous place. The people of this region who ruled with an iron fist. That was, until he Though Feligno was now under Mianan control, as the locals would not rest easy under the North of Feligno is Silea. Silea was once Venucci took control of the region. Since then, begun digging for Timonium, most of which seems North of Silea is Dirsi, whose forests concealed no longer have control over the fortress, and prison for enemies he wished to keep alive. This where the prisoners dug for Timonium and When the Mianan army came upon the prison they sent in a strike force to free those held bolstered the Mianan army as it continued Ranconi is surrounded by rugged terrain, Great Bridge to reach the city itself. city and also makes for an ideal defensive During the war, the bridge was heavily army was able to force their way across the Lastly, northwest of Ranconi is the state of The territory of Venucci had been transformed by the changes brought by the Doge's industrial than slaves for his factories, which dedicated One of these war machines was a giant cannon of this cannon was created, and underwent This cannon was seemingly forgotten about after moved into the region to secure this prototype Cuoti civilization (who were secretly working out in this region - stranded after the Doge In addition to the Hammer, there was a giant mound known as the Doge's Vault. The mound had four Doge had accumulated during his reign. After the were usurped by the Condottieri. In the present, within the vault, while also establishing The capital city itself was conquered by led by Giacomo, which brought the inhabitants. The Venucci would as the Mianan forces left the city in North of Venucci is a land known as previous Vinci empire can be found in disputed territory between Condottieri Vinci cities are an amalgamation of spires of smoke stacks, intertwining At the heart of every city is a towering which powers the entire city and any so too does the furnace, for the bigger the Four types of districts could be built Military District. An expanding city would and these soldiers would need to be provides this, effectively increasing When a new military district is completed, a squad the military district is capped off with a and provides the city a strong defensive weapon parabolic trajectory, the mortar can fire as well as hit targets behind obstacles districts the city has, the greater should also be noted that a city's garrison of The second kind of district was the is filled with markets where goods from bought and sold. A merchant district enabling the populace to accumulate resources A merchant district enables a city to Trade caravans are dirigible airships that that to exchange goods. When a the wealth income of the city increases that caravan maintains its route between the two the higher its resource cap and the value The Industrial District is the third type and is unique to a Vinci City. of moving pistons, this district increases as well as the production speed of units. enables the magistrate to research a unique The fourth and final type of district was the it would need to construct a palace to better administrative affairs. There are two distinct was a tall tower which featured a spinning constructed at cities that were considered the palace design had less grandeur compared to the while a smaller globe was located lower Regardless of the design, the palace districts perform the same functions. For one, particularly the furnace at the center. A and expanded territorial borders. Upon completion were enhanced. Industrial districts had their increased. Merchant districts had greater sustain a greater population - in addition to The first palace district upgraded a standard city palace district upgraded the large city to a great be available for construction after more of The leader of a Vinci state could called Technology Tracks for their the research that was put into these The first of these was called Politics. A national borders of that state, caused attrition reduced the cost of buying out neutral sites, units when storming an enemy site or city. Instead of Politics, the nation could focus military forces had enough medical supplies This enabled their troops to better recover from and provide repairs to mechanical units such as A focus on Prosperity also makes passively increasing the nation's wealth income. A Vinci nation at war would benefit greatly from collection of resources from friendly or enemy in this policy reduced the rate of attrition that enemy territory. Under this policy, the Vinci their buildings was destroyed. Further gains supply radius from dirigible airships and the within an enemy nation's borders, as long Lastly, Mining was a track that as it increased the amount of Timonium the the use of a unique Vinci national Industrial Devastation allows the Vinci land using underground drills. buildings and any ground units unlucky of effect. The greater the focus on this devastation and destructive power wrought Speaking of mining, the Vinci's primary source of mines. Mines come in various designs though, the that look like legs, supporting a that is crushed into gravel. This gravel smoke stack. Miners are recruited from While a mine is not required to be it does increase the rate at which the have the capabilities to upgrade their mines and improve the durability of the mine itself to into mechanization at the prototype factory who are more efficient at gathering The best way for the Vinci to defend their was to construct a Barracks to train infantry speakers on top that acts as a command troops conduct their training. A couple grounds. Fans help keep the interior of The barracks is where Vinci trained, and equipped. It's also where The Clockwork units can receive further that can be invested into the Musketeers The Aerodrome is a tall structure where most Vinci from the landing pad atop the tower and include and Air Destroyer. Any upgrades available the aerodrome. More information regarding these In order to build advanced ground vehicles, the A steam fortress was basically an all-in-one the steam fortress expands the national borders of this building enabled the construction of Juggernaut, and Land Leviathan. This includes any The fortress aspect of this building becomes and in the air - who would find themselves under building. These rockets were backed up by the To protect their borders or other sites of also called Defense Towers. While the cannon atop the tower could defend the tower could rotate 360deg, it did &quot;dead zone&quot; where the cannon would be unable Part of recruiting the Zeke Bot from the prototype factory included improvements in armor Research could be conducted at the military buildings. Once this research automated repair systems to fix any damage included additional improvements to the steam they would become Super Steam Fortresses - towers would become Improved Towers, which Research Labs were small structures of spinning buildings to be constructed from. The basic research points that can be invested into the it was best for the leader to upgrade defined role; one that would benefit the Vinci The Borehole was one building the research lab into the earth right above a subterranean stored in cylindrical containers at the the borehole can generate wealth, which is done of the borehole can be improved to gather A giant telescope could be built from sites far away through the fog of war. The a portion of shrouded land. If ordered the previous portion would be re-shrouded. on rival factions in a region without Instead of a telescope, the research lab can Calculator enables the trading of Timonium the same time, the calculator reduces constructed next to it. For example, a Barracks would instead only cost 103 Timonium machine could even be upgraded The Timonium Smelter was another structure built a crane that picks up spare parts from a pile and Timonium extracted from mines - are smelted which is used to produce a steady stream of mechanical units in the vicinity of the smelter If the Vinci really needed to defend their a Bunker Fort. This is an incredibly strong whether it be from Vinci gunpowder weapons, the the Cuoti. A large number of Vinci units can the steam fortress, is armed with rockets that The bunker can be garrisoned by infantry Juggernaut tanks. There is a limit to the and the larger the unit, the more space it takes beneath it, which can create and deploy Another defensive structure that lab was the Nullifier. This tower, when and powers across an entire region for a few due to violet-colored particles permeating shine through the sky. Only when these be used once again. Perhaps the most grand of The Statue depicts Doge Alessadri of Venucci raised toward the sky, while mechanical on a rotating gear. This statue inspires any their attack power. The affected units become so The Glorious statue is also a structure, where the Doge's elite The last and, ostensibly, the constructed from the research lab is the Doom Cannon was a giant cannon that could buildings, and ground units. The cannon The cannon could fire one of three types of Shell had a wide blast radius designed to take had a moderate blast radius and was designed anyone who lingers in the cloud for too long. at preventing enemies from mining at a Timonium Shell. It had the smallest blast radius, structure or shattering a city's defenses; After firing, a new shell is rolled left side of the cannon, and is using a cart and set of gears. It would Cannon to assemble another copy of the Next to almost every major city in a Vinci state scientists and engineers experiment seeking ways to improve them as well as magistrate could visit the Prototype Factory These could be in the form of upgrades to already a new invention, or a set of plans to improve Any technologies or improvements related that chapter of the video. So for now, I'll For technologies or policies that affect all Superior Training. Once complete, it would Monoculars were a technology that, when providing them with increased attack The engineers at the prototype factory could focus Vinci soldiers would learn how to capture cities storm cities or other new neutral sites would sites or cities using wealth was reduced, The personnel at the prototype factory could Inventor of Miana. The lessons learned were then compiled into a single work it reduced research time for advances, It even cut the research time for The prototype factory could produce Med Packs among Vinci military forces, increasing the Two of the three final prototypes one could Princely Gift and Increased Production. These but they could be reacquired repeatedly gift would provide 600 wealth to the Vinci well... increased the speed at which units Other Vinci buildings included the similarly to a Timonium smelter. Using the scrapyard would create Clockwork units Power plants could be seen across the Vinci villages, or other sites - assuming keep the power for themselves. These sites and when captured would speed up unit production. Condottieri or other groups of renegade Vinci an Engraver, which could be best described would provide additional wealth income even be upgraded to a Mint, further Similar to the engraver, there was the Alchemy where Timonium was collected and stored. Timonium income for the new owner. The site further increasing the Timonium it generated. Those traveling across Vinci lands, particularly great places to hire Renegade soldiers, who An inn could be upgraded to become a Meeting mercenary armies, as well as the population house. The Vinci steam technology elevated their but it also brought about new ways for them With the city-states constant infighting, ever-increasing methods of destruction. This armed with muskets to Clockwork machinations, While not military units, miners were vital for The size of the Timonium deposit determined the it. Miners were vulnerable to attacks from enemy to defend themselves. The exception to this would from the Prototype facility. This enabled miners and armed them with pistols to better Instead of arming their human miners, the local Clockwork Mining. The results of which would more Timonium than a human one. In addition, the Prototype facility would receive While Clockwork miners could be considered more they are more than capable of holding More Clockwork Miners and upgrades could Prototype Factory. Two Clockwork miners could be acquired at Tier 3 and four at Tier 4. At Tier the foreman could mine the largest amount of capabilities of both human and Clockwork miners called mechanization, would enable mines no longer having to rely on the Prototype mines would no longer train human miners. Imperial Musketeers were the primary infantry unit has a total of nine Musketeers. Besides their clad from head to toe in armor. This armor was being improved with the latest technologies such spring-loaded pulleys, flexible spring knee which acted as a miniature scope for the helmet was painted with the unit's supplies on his back, including a slashed bedroll. Some Musketeers were given a pistol, Imperial Musketeers performed all manner From defending its territory to conquering and though they could engage in melee combat, Their primary role when directly assaulting dwelling after it had been sufficiently weakened. or site directly in order to capture it. This some casualties however, so sometimes it was Imperial Musketeers could receive further training default, Musketeers arrange themselves at a enemy upon sight, with each Musketeer firing squad's Sergeant could order the Musketeers the Musketeers fire their weapons at the same the cost of the Musketeers being unable to move, With extra training, squads of Imperial Musketeers grenadiers would orient themselves in order formation that increased their range, Further training upgraded Grenadiers to Fusers. Stance. In this stance, the squad loses its melee attack and greater resistance to Musketeers could receive a few upgrades from of which were Infiltration Tactics, which while also reducing the number Besides the Imperial Musketeers of a Musketeers that control neutral sites such as as well equipped as Imperial Musketeers, which is why it was sometimes easier them out. Renegade Musketeers could be The Doge of Venucci created his own company of wore distinct gas masks, helping them stand out could only be trained from a glorious statue, musketeer. For one, the elite guard knew how to stances without needing any additional training. effects of enemy powers and abilities, especially The barracks wasn't just the place to train Vinci's Clockwork units were assembled. The man. Unlike the Musketeers, who prefer to engage stomp towards enemy units and fight them in units around with its arms, sending them flying short-ranged electrical weapon on its right arm detachable and could be replaced with a different with such a weapon was called a Clockwork Prototype Factory. The sniper was particularly It was best for Clockwork men to fight of notable benefits. The first was the have increased attack power. The second was the survivors could use its Clockwork men could be upgraded from the barracks, upgrade turned the standard Clockwork man into took it from a Heavy to a Super Clockwork man. and upgraded Clockwork man was that the upgraded Even without a Barracks, a Clockwork the know how. Because of this, there such as the aforementioned Clockwork Sniper by Renegade Vinci or the Condottieri. Notable called Demolition Clockwork men. These were carry towards enemies. Ideally arriving next to The last Clockwork unit that could be assembled Spider was more powerful, but also more expensive the Spider was capable of trampling enemies melee. Trampling knocks down infantry units, attack. More importantly, the Spider had rocket is used by the Spider against buildings and an anti-air ground unit. Even better was that the In addition, the Clockwork Spider had a web the actions of an enemy building. Units that are damage is increased if the Spider was upgraded Like with his Elite guard, the Doge of Venucci Doge Walker. Produced at the Glorious statue, the preferring to engage targets at a its arms. Unlike the Clockwork man, the Doge the vehicle from inside its cylindrical the Doge Walker could trample enemy infantry and Infantry units wouldn't typically work alone, they would be supported by - and supporting For sieging cities and providing long-range This heavy ground unit was being lightly armored due to the large cannon it against buildings and caused splash damage Even more impressive was the Steam whether they be mechanical or beast. As with becoming a Super Steam Cannon denoted by a The Venucci military created their own version of was exactly the same as the original version, Doge Cannon was only encountered in the field which occurred during the Great Enemy forces could easily deal with the exploiting its weak armor and inability to that could not be easily dealt with however, &quot;medium&quot; tank, the Juggernaut was large armament were two impressive cannons, fixed These cannons were effective against basically to creatures large and small. They In addition to its primary cannons, turrets attached to each side of the vehicle's to disable the tank's tracks. Even without task as the Juggernaut could easily crush As if the Juggernaut wasn't already powerful Juggernaut from the steam fortress, denoted by The Prototype Factory could provide a Vinci leader Despite its size and armament, the Juggernaut vehicles. That honor goes to the Leviathan - walker that best resembles a crab. Initially made an excellent, albeit expensive, machine of which of course, could grind up any infantry units somehow managing to avoid getting The &quot;claws&quot; of the Leviathan are two large to find Timonium deposits or destroy was that one of these claws acted as a missile the target. This vessel was capable of completely Instead of destruction, the Leviathan could The walker moves underground to emerge do this to travel great distances in a short A heavily damaged Leviathan had the capability the machine goes dormant for a short and repairs itself. Once repairs are complete, The Leviathan was armed including a few gun turrets located atop the used against both ground and air units. body was a missile launcher that could launch Like all other Vinci ground units, the Leviathan becoming a King Leviathan, further solidifying its place as the most The Vinci's technology allowed them to take to for trade, transportation, and warfare. Vinci neutral sites using Trade Caravans. Trade Caravans their backs, located between the two balloons are responsible for generating wealth for a needed to be protected. Included in the armed caravans would be created faster, have a gun turret that would enable the Caravan Generally speaking, the more the more Caravans that it could support. cost needed to purchase a neutral site. automatically bringing the site under It should be noted that the Vinci did trade between each other and beyond in the air was more efficient, especially through the Caravans were basic supply transports, unlike that was constructed at an Aerodrome. They made up part of the frame, that surrounded two cockpits where the pilots were located; the balloon. Cargo dirigibles were especially one that was operating with the army remained in the vicinity of a cargo Additionally, the cargo dirigible could across a cliff or over inhospitable ground. making it an easy target for enemy forces. The improved - and later - a Heavy Cargo Dirigible. increased, along with the number of units it could was capable of carrying at least two siege units, For scouting out newly discovered territory, the was a small, fast-moving, steam-powered which gave the Scout its flight capabilities. pick up relics found on the ground, which Scout Flyers can be upgraded from the aerodrome capabilities. The first were a couple of Drone, which attacked ground units as it floated which performed the same function as the gun The last armament was a parachute bomb. deployment. The bomb would slowly float causing widespread damage that knocked down enemy the ground though. The explosion would still A new prototype of the Scout flyer could be the Spy Scout Flyer. The Spy Scout performed but was equipped with mirrors that would rotate the Spy Scout to activate a cloaking field, making it invisible to the naked eye. In strengthened air frames for standard Scout The Vinci of Pirata were renowned for producing The Pirata flyer made use of two aerial flight. The engine was located at the tail the aircraft were supply bags. And at the front of The Pirata Flyer's gun turret could rotate 360deg it could engage ground targets, the flyer was As with other Vinci units, the Pirata Flyer denoted by the yellow glow emitted A more advanced prototype of the Pirata flyer called the Gun Flyer. The large aerial screw for flight, and while it they were not attached to a rotating turret; near the cockpit. The Gun Flyer was also armed attached to each side of the aircraft, making it Acquiring the gunfire prototype also increased Another Piratan-made aircraft was the Air the Air Destroyer was a vertical takeoff and ground units and buildings. The Destroyer attached beneath each of the aircraft's long was a ball turret, which was used to defend its rockets were only effective against ground rocket after another in quick secession in a also launch an entire barrage of rockets at once, A prototype of the Air Destroyer called the Prototype Factory. The Transport Destroyer could capable of airlifting several small while also being able to defend itself. Unlike the could not provide nearby units with supplies In addition, acquiring the Transport Destroyer increased the ground attack and armor of any The last Vinci air unit could only be developed was the Siege Zeppelin. The Siege Zeppelin armored shell hanging below it using ropes. was armed with eight field cannons. Some the middle of the shell, while others steered raining artillery-fire down upon enemy units being highly effective at destroying Zeppelin had no anti-air capabilities so needed The knowledge of materials used to develop Cannons in the Vinci arsenal, thus The Condottieri had their own military units could put up a fight, especially when defending Condottieri forces were stationed at an outpost, outposts were captured, a Vinci leader could There were two kinds of Condottieri melee units, oriented themselves in a nine-man squad similar sword and shield, always looking to engage knights were typically arranged in a three-man using sabers. Knights were able to operate within For ranged units, the Condottieri used Dragoons. pistols. The Dragoons were well-trained, able faster than a standard musketeer squad were poor melee fighters, Dragoons Among the Vinci civilization, several notable Whether it be through their unique or prowess in battle. Each hero had a set of during conflicts. As they gained more experience, Perhaps the most famous of these Inventor of Miana. Giacomo was the youngest of city of Miana had a long history of producing sons. He learned everything there was to know his own teachers. So much so that he garnered Though he was a brilliant mind, Giacomo was like his brother, Petruzzo, before him. Giacomo instead wanting to go out and explore the Giacomo chose to run away from home, reach the Kalahese Desert, where Giacomo was woefully unprepared for the harsh vast been rescued by a caravan of Alin traders. Giacomo Harif for at least 4 months until he was found After the passing of his father sometime later, of Miana. Petruzzo was the opposite of Giacomo, mantle of leadership. Petruzzo also understood and engineer, so allowed his younger brother Petruzzo's death at the hands of the Doge of successfully leading the state in their Giacomo had a particular interest in the throughout Vinci society. Wherever he was of all friendly clockwork units nearby. He a nearby Vinci city upon first arrival, and Giacomo used a custom built Clockwork mech walker, on the field of battle. This walker, which was armed with a cannon attached to its left arm the ground and in the air. This weapon was highly explosion knocking down enemy soldiers within walker to trample infantry, knocking them over combat, such as Clockwork men, Giacomo's Giacomo had a few other gadgets and abilities battle using his walker. The first of these area of effect ability that, when deployed, would speed and attack power. This ability also heals The cannon on Giacomo's walker could be a destructive wave of sound that, while smaller units, such as infantry, and Giacomo had a strong familiarity he created his own models armed a demolition team of these units, which causing a substantial amount of damage to caught in the blast radius. Initially, there but this team could be enhanced to include a Giacomo's final ability was called this ability affects all friendly units or boosting their combat capabilities, that makes the units invulnerable from all enemy Giacomo would use this walker model where he constructed a new which had an entirely different When Giacomo became Lord of Miana, he General Carlini, when conducting their war who served as military advisor to Giacomo's been a soldier for 43 years, had killed more blown off - which was replaced with a mechanical backed down from a fight. He was often seen as Giacomo's military advisor until his demise Due to the loss of his leg, Carlini preferred a tough animal in its own right, able to trample the battlefield increased the morale of Imperial Using a musket modified as a sniper rifle, Carlini Carlini was so skilled with the rifle that he it. While some targets, like mechanical units, may take a significant amount of damage being struck an improved scope to his rifle, increasing the Carlini wasn't opposed to carrying other one of which was a turret. When deployed, this enemies. The turret was temporary and would it could be upgraded, which increased its Carlini could hype himself up with a charge from and supremely powerful for a short time, The city-state of Pirata was a haven for crew. Among the leaders of the Pirata as a pilot was legendary, but even those ruthless competitor in business and sport. Lenora's fearless nature and skill allow her piracy. Her presence in the skies above line of site of friendly aerodrome units, Lenora took flight on her own heavily modified a greater armament, engines, and armor compared the aircraft was a gatling gun, effective at firepower of the aircraft could be enhanced using even more weapons, including light cannons and boosted along with the engines, enabling it to aircraft was quite effective when focused against Being a pirate, Lenora was an expert in acts of onto her aircraft. When these hooks grabbed permanently brought under Lenora's control. the stronger the units that she could bring like infantry would only need one shot of hooks, With each upgrade, the number of units Lenora Lenora kept a flare with her to call in a forces. Against air units, Lenora could signal damage to air units. This includes Vinci or Against ground units, Lenora would signal for bombs across a wide area, devastating to infantry Lenora would play a vital role in supporting the Doge, even going as far as to accompany Another well-known Piratin was though tales of her heroism made her popular local magistrates knew her as a ruthless traitor, Venza would reduce the cost of acquiring neutral Venza could also increase wealth Venza had her own custom built aircraft that with four rapid firing machine guns that were aircraft. Venza could enhance her flyer using speed. Venza could be summoned to the battlefield Being a pirate, Venza was skilled in looting Venza would generate one wealth for each Just like upgraded Scout Flyers, Venza carried these gun drones provided line-of-sight while the ground from their parachutes. Unlike the type of drone at a time, Venza deployed five of Venza could create more of these drones, enabling Lastly, Venza could signal for a Siege Though Lord Rocco was the official leader of forming a rebellion led by a red-haired man talent with machines, but his instability Distruzio was often seen which was armed with several guns Destruzio always carried a couple types was an Explosive grenade. This kind of grenade The second grenade type was a Healing of the explosive grenade - healing The problem was that Distruzio could be a was always a slim chance that he might grab the a Healing grenade, he would accidentally end Similar to Giacomo, Distruzio could summon the type of clockwork units were random. So they Lastly for Distruzio, he could statistics choosing between Ground Attack, Distruzio did not work alone, often Zeke. Zeke was created by Distruzio depending on what form the bot was functioning in. In Battle Form, Zeke maintained a balance Zeke was armed with a wrench, which but also battle - using the tool to whack down Zeke would holster his wrench and use In Recon Form, Zeke took to the sky, deploying land. In this form, Zeke could quickly explore neutral sites, and discovering the locations unarmed and exchanged armor for speed, making him Zeke's final mode was Siege Form. In Siege excellent for dismantling buildings or other this form, most noticeable on his shoulders Because of this heavy armor though, To many, Zeke is just a curious robot made engineer. However, Zeke is far more than this little bot actually contains within How a man like Distruzio came to acquire but it may explain Zeke's more independent Distruzio. Sometimes the bot visits prototype a local Vinci magistrate from one of these One of the most famous generals of the Battaglion. General Battaglion leads willingness to do the dirty work. A Battaglion uses a siege cannon in this weapon does great damage to buildings, The more familiar Battaglion became with this The mortar could be loaded with a high to not only buildings, but entire cities. buildings crumbling to the ground, and even a city, it did lower the number of Battaglion's cannon could also be when fired scattered in a short, This scattershot was highly effective at didn't kill would be knocked back by Due to the weight of the equipment he carried, Battaglion couldn't move very fast. Occasionally movement speed while also increasing his During the Miana-Venucci War, Battaglion would from a prison where he had been locked up by Battaglion would accompany Giacomo to the When present in the field, Battaglion's construction and increased The most notorious individual of the Vinci was power in Venucci by promising to industrialize realize the price they would have to pay for either forced to perform hard labor in mines and While Doge Alessadri lacked the brilliance an impressive array of technological weapons elegance. When present on the field of battle, and improves Steam Cannon, Juggernaut, The Doge commanded his forces from his on four legs and had two arms. On the which was given to the Doge by the Cuoti. This though it lacked any area of effect damage. Poison Cloud artillery strike upon a group of his causing toxic damage to any units that stood of the Doge's own units, with the exception of his Against individual units or heroes, the a Pain Ray. The concentration of this incredible damage, being more than capable Instead of causing great pain to an individual Siege Laser. This attack functioned very able to instantly destroy buildings or completely force the targeted city to surrender or make The final ability the Doge had at his disposal The Hammer was a giant cannon that could fire a When the shell landed, it would cause a great units caught within the blast radius. The hammer what the Doge did during the war between Miana and After destroying Miana, the Doge and his the Silean Path to the Kalahese Desert. A taking shelter next to a magical Oasis. man named Pulitore. Pulitore was a chemical the chemical weapons the Doge uses. Pulitore's to corrosive materials; thus why he is seen Like Distruzio, Pulitore is often seen which features gun ports at the front; attached to the back. This great toxin can which moves across the ground Unsurprisingly, in combat Pulitore used a was a grenade that, when detonated, created a caught within this cloud would be poisoned effects if they remained within it. As the cloud Alternatively, Pulitore could trigger surrounded his vehicle. This creates an aura nearby him. This poison lingers on them, even Pulitore could make enhancements to increasing his ground attack. Lastly, Pulitore which damages them over a considerable time Such an effect was often used against enemy Due to his considerable expertise in poisons, units. And was immune to poison himself, already concoctions. Pulitore would end up joining allies - helped the Doge deserters defend their With the help of his Vinci and Alin revenge against the Doge of Venucci as well Ventures would next take him - along with where he would halt a world-ending Lenora, Chief captain of Pirata and returned with the surviving The Vinci had become wary of the especially the most recent war between Miana untouched by the conflict. The people longed Lenora stepped up to meet that challenge, hoping Lenora works to build alliances each Vinci citizen answering to a single among Lenora's own Pirata lieutenants, who a unified Vinci, with their combined would be the one thing that could resist the threat of their dark glass brethren - talk Should such an event ever come to pass, against the technological might of of Aio. [Music] [Music] [Music]