Dear friends of ItaliaSquisita, Here we are again at I'm Matteo Baronetto and we are in Turin. Today, together I want to introduce two iconic products the sphere from Del Cambio pharmacy. The cube is by now a iconic in Italy and to make it in Piazza is a second product experimentation which cube is filled with and our sphere tribute to Piedmont, filled then with a very delicate hazelnut cream. Now I'm leaving you, as one can is responsible for the pastry team. She will show you how our Good morning everyone, Mazzuferi and I Del Cambio laboratory and Del Cambio restaurant here in Turin, Piazza Carignano transform an geometric solid. To create these two products we will need a flour that is strong enough to maintain a long a strength of at least 260 W, sugar, brewer's yeast. Immediately after, our starter, that for 10 years in our laboratory. Let's add the liquid, followed by the cream, our aromas: orange, lemon and vanilla. The last trying not to touch the yeast too much. Now that ready after almost 10 minutes, we can add the butter. After about 3 minutes, we add the other half more or less 5 minutes is nice and homogeneous dough is ready. You homogeneous and it is very Now let's of 4 kg each. Each dough will Now let's get our five big doughs, stretch them to the size of the tray. We use 60x40 cm trays completely cold before we can Our big dough is now ready and cold. We will make the dough thinner, around 1.5 - 1.2 cm to make it the perfect Using a cutter we cut the size and fold them like a book. Stretch We will fold it into four layers We cut the edges on the sides and place it back side to fold it into three layers. For the three layers fold, Let's place our dough back in the tray We cover it with a bag so that no film creates on top The big dough is cold. We immediately For as regards the spheres we stretch it out to We took another big dough for our cubes but placed it in the as we did previously and we're stretching it to 1 cm instead. For our cubes once we have the dough stretched multi wheel pastry cutter, we'll cut it and 5 cm wide. We always mark them, then we will cut them with Each piece must be 80 g. Immediately afterward we are going inside the cube. We pull on the extremities and then Let's close the ends and roll it up on itself. Let's exert always a good try to close and seal it Once our shapes are ready, we can We are here with We're cutting some strips 0.5 cm thick. We take our strips and place them on the side of the fold. Each strip must be cut at half strips to complete one sphere. We join them to make a braid careful not to leave your fingers deform our flaking. We pull it, once we folded it, we're going to turn it on itself. OK, once we have formed our spheres we can place them inside the molds. We made the cubes, we made the in a leavening room So after we've left them to rise, we can now take them. Our cubes are ready to be closed and placed in the oven. Davide in this phase cubes and arrange them baking trays to give Every day during the cubes while on the cubes per day to try to sustain all our numbers take away and at the level You have to be sure that the lids close well, because the dough pushes a lot during the cooking and therefore we risk Our oven is ready. Set it to 160degC and set 35 minutes of cooking. And after 3 hours of leavening Now we can finish closing, place them in the oven and minutes and then we will lower the oven to 170degC for 20 minutes. We tap them lightly and Now we brush our cubes with a syrup one by two, meaning two parts of sugar and a part of water, so that our crust becomes softer. Let's let the excess drop out on the grill. And when everything is completely Once our cubes are brushed, we can remove our spheres. we have already lowered We remove the dome only and leave the bottom on until it is cooled slightly so So now we polish our spheres, exactly as we did with the cubes, as soon as they start to cool and we can keep them in our hand. And we always place them on supports in such a sphere does not become flat. Here with my colleague filling both the cubes first lightly pierce our products so that we can fit the piping bag better. And now we will fill the spheres First of all, let's open the cube in such a way as our dough. Let's do the So, as you can see there aren't too many alveoli, a closed mold the dough is compressed inside, but a lot of moisture harmonious with the difference between the external part and and the internal gives both the sphere and the cube the crunchiness to the bite when you're eating it. watching us today, we are piazza Carignano here in Turin to taste our entire selection Greetings to all Squisita from Giorgia, Davide and