Huge thanks to Anker for sponsoring today's video! All right, I think we're all set. So let's put Windows 3.1 on this thing shall we? All right guys, well I hope you enjoyed today's episode. If you did be sure to [MJD Interrupts] No no no no no no! Ok, I'm not doing that to you guys again. Hello everybody and welcome back to another video! Now in today's episode, yes you read the Windows 3.1 on my iPhone 11. Which as you can see is running MS-DOS. Well ok, it's an MS-DOS emulator, it's DOSBOX. And it's all thanks to a really awesome application called iDOS 2. Which unfortunately is not in the App Store anymore. And because of that, I think it's important for me to give Which we will get to, don't worry. But let me just So iDOS is actually nothing new, it's been around for over 10 years now. The application was first released back on October 26th, 2010. And it was live in the App Store for a whopping... 4 hours. Yeah. Until Apple said &quot;uh wait a second&quot; and The main reason for that was, this Which in itself is not a bad thing at all, it's actually a feature. But because of the nature of what iDOS was, this essentially that code being DOS games and applications. In fact, some people even found out that the like, the file structure and everything. Now I'm sure some of you are going &quot;well okay just remove Well... yeah but... no not exactly. Because yes, you could remove iTunes file sharing. But then you wouldn't be able to do anything with it because to be able to run DOS games or applications. So, the only thing you could do is stare And that was no fun, right? But the developer had in the next release which happened a couple months later on January 19th, 2011. That version of iDOS removed iTunes File Sharing, but it To allow you to do something with it. And that was great but that unless you own the rights to the games, or you develop the games yourself, So, that version of the app got taken down as well. And then the developer just finally caved in and and re-released it a little while later to where it was just And it remained in the App Store for a while in that state until... September 19th, 2020. When the developer decided to re-enable File Got approved by Apple! So perhaps they changed their mind about this whole thing. Perhaps they were opening up a little bit everything was going to be great, right? Nope! Because less than a year later, after the developer Apple sent over a really nice email that read: So, just like that we're back to square one. And this time around, the developer was not on the table. It was something So, the app was eventually removed. But luckily, the developer notified and encouraged people to download it while they could, which I did. I paid $5.00 for this application and it was totally worth it because... we're using it to make this video today! Now, the inspiration for this video came in part from a where people were showing you how to install Windows 3.1 on an iPad. Specifically an iPad, but it could have been done on any And, I believe that that is how Apple heard about this. I mean of course, it was in the App Store. But I And once it was getting all this press, once a bunch of Apple kind of discovered what had happened and then sent the But, all of those articles and all of those guides about they used image files, they just used floppy images. That's too easy. Who wants to do that, right? So today, we're upping the ante because A real, genuine copy of Windows 3.1. Okay, technically 3.11 but who cares. It's Windows 3.1. And that poses another challenge... How the heck do we do that? Now I'm sure a ton of you are going &quot;oh I saw this video from LGR where he Well, yeah. It worked great for him, he was using an Android phone. It turns out that using a USB floppy Now first of all, you have to get an adapter, You gotta get one of these wonderful things: Now, there are third-party ones all over Amazon, This is the official Apple one and I went with all you have to do is... we're just gonna unbox this here. We're gonna take our wonderful, overpriced, Okay, you gotta plug this into your phone here. And then, we're going to plug the floppy drive into We get this notification that says: I tried using a powered USB hub. But the fact of the matter is, no matter what USB floppy drive you try... you're not going to get it to work with This dongle does not support the USB [quoting from manual]: &quot;The Lightning to USB camera adapter is or mass storage class devices.&quot; Which, USB floppy drives are not mass storage class devices. So that is, again, not supported with this adapter right here. So then I thought &quot;okay maybe... it'll be supported with this one right here.&quot; This is Apple's Lightning to USB 3 Camera Adapter which costs, a beautiful... THIRTY NINE DOLLARS I mean, are you kidding me? $39.00 for this stupid thing? And the worst part, that just infuriates me, there's Look at this, you get this nice box that's like, okay. You get this warranty thing, a one year limited warranty. No Apple stickers anywhere. And of course, it turns out, you open this up right here look what it says: [quoting from manual]: The Lighting to USB 3 Camera Adapter is compatible mass storage class devices. The same exact thing. So, you can use this one all day long with one of Okay, well there is one really great And that is the fact that you can charge your And hey, why not charge your device three times these by using Anker's Nano Pro. I'm sure most of you know who Anker is. Which is why I had no problem accepting The Anker Nano Pro is their latest charger, and it's charged up quickly and easily. A single USB-C port on the front means you'll instantly And with fast charging built in, you can expect them to charge up much quicker. By the time you're watching this, I'd have gotten to capture some footage for a large But past me is still packing for that trip, and you can Something like this is a necessity for me. A compact wall wart... (yes, that's what you can call these things) that charges up your phone quickly. And the best part? It costs only $19.99. That's literally almost the same price as Apple's charger! you know, this one that doesn't have fast charging. And plus, these Anker ones come in colors. So... what more do you need to know? Click the link down below and pick up one for yourself today. And huge thanks to Anker for sponsoring this video At this point, I had spent $60.00 on these stupid cables and, I said &quot;I have absolutely no That is until, until, I came across this pretty awesome video Where he demonstrated his iPhone being And, he explained how he did it. What he did, was get... One of these right here! This my friends, is a Super Disk. No, not the Sony-Nintendo thing. This is actually a pretty neat piece of history, Now, you probably know what the Zip drive is, right? The Zip drive, and the Zip Disks, that was a super floppy format. And that was easily the most successful out And the Super Disk was another format, though And they were very similar to Zip disks, they were a similar So, it was a similar capacity. And, you know, compare that to a 1.44 MB high density floppy diskette... you could hold a lot more data on these But the Super Disk, at least here in the US But, it works great for our purposes because it turns out they can also read standard, high density floppy diskettes. Now you might say &quot;okay, how on Earth does that help us?&quot; Well these drives here, unlike the USB floppy So that means that you can plug this into and the iPhone is able to read the contents on the disk. We're basically tricking the iPhone here into thinking When it is, in fact, reading the contents of a floppy diskette. Pretty cool, right? The only problem is, this one I bought for I think $60 off of eBay... You see that right there? That's not a USB port. Okay, so I thought &quot;no problem, we can just use some Conversion Technology!&quot; Ah yes, the Computer Clan. They're pretty great by But anyways, yeah so this is an adapter that came So, I thought &quot;okay, we can just plug this in no problem&quot; Okay, so let's plug it in here... Nothing happens. I can eject the disk i can put it back in... (which actually is not a good sign by but, I can do this all day. Nothing's going to show USB drive connected through one of these Let me grab a USB flash drive to show you what I mean. Got a USB flash drive here. Unplug it. Plug this in, make sure it's plugged in the right way. And watch what happens... Boom! There you go. &quot;NO NAME&quot; it shows up. So, that's not happening with this here. So I Well, then I tried to use this one here. I In fact, in the video from &quot;Will It Work?&quot; he used one of these. Well, it turns out that I had made a bit of an oversight. You have to get one of *these* Super Disk And this right here specifically, is the model SD USB M3. So you don't have to use any adapters, because all you And there it is: MSWIN3112. Which is disk number 2 of this Windows 3.11 installation disk set. We can go over to iDOS here and I've got a Bluetooth And we can- well, actually the first thing we have to do is go to- Let's rotate this back here. So you can tap want to go to folders. This is how you you mount stuff. easier just doing it through the graphical user choose what folder you want to mount so in this And now, you'll see it says that it's mounted as the D drive. So if we go to D here, and type &quot;dir/w&quot; we can see all the contents on the drive! Alright everybody, so i think it's just about So we've got our 6 floppy diskettes right there. And before we can get into actually installing One thing I noticed about this drive is it is read the contents of whatever disk is in the drive. this is where as you saw earlier that iOS displays So right here, under locations, if we put in the But the problem is that doesn't always happenas you're going to see here. So the drive starts to sound like it's reading, and i can already on the other drive, the fact that we were able the reason I said that was a bad thing is because when you have the Super Disk When you use an external drive, for example, Apple's external DVD drive. Or even if you happen to have an older Mac with an internal DVD drive There's no button to eject the disk. You have to do drag the disk icon on your desktop to the trash, I'm sure you guys know all that's not going to explain it. Well anyways, that's why this button doesn't work here because We can't do that. There is no eject option on iOS here. Whenever we want to eject the disk we can't just press this or just unplug the USB cable from the back The other problem we're going to have is And just like that, we've got it mounted. But &quot;Drive D is mounted as local directory...&quot; Now this is fine, but it poses a problem when notice how it includes the name of the disk currently in the drive. So, when we go to change that and put in Disk 2, it's not going to be able to find the files on it. Now the reason it's behaving this way is as a floppy disk drive or any other It's treating this as a regular USB hard drive. Because the disk is determining what the drive shows the name of the drive in iOS, which means So, a way around this that I've discovered So, we mount Disk 1 through 6 as individual drives And then as long as we make sure that the Super Disk contents of that floppy disk in the file browser, we can Because the whole reason why this is a problem, is go back to DOSBOX here, change the mount, and go back into setup. Once we quit... we quit! And then that would make it impossible to complete the setup. So, we've mounted Disk 1 here. And now we're going to eject it. And let's see if we can just put in Disk 2, let's So we put in Disk 2... nope, I can already tell it's not reading it at all. [video pauses] All right guys, well there was originally a lot of you didn't miss much. Because it was basically just me trying to get this freaking Super And like i said earlier, this thing is on if the drive decides to work and read the contents Most of the time it doesn't. Sometimes it does. And it was just getting really frustrating. So, I was thinking well, that other Super Disk drive that blue plastic piece on the front. It doesn't I mean, the drive itself reads a floppy diskette my old Macs. So I was thinking i was looking at both the same size. I wonder if we could just And, that's exactly what I did. I took both of same drive, like the actual part itself. At least have the same sticker on the front. Just, the one the direct USB-B to USB-A, that drive is a newer variant. of both drives, and then take the board from the and reassembled it back in the case. We've got power... and the drive already sounds better. Oh yeah, that's working. Oh my gosh, okay, that made my life so much easier! The disc order is going to go: D, E, F, G, H, I. Right down the alphabet, isn't that nice. So okay, we're going to unplug. And I found you have to unplug power And then once it does its initial startup process here [disk ejecting] We're going to put back in Disk 1. [inserting disk] So we're in the D drive now and i can type &quot;dir/w&quot;. Get a list of all of our files. And i can type &quot;setup&quot; And, it's reading off the drive. This is the moment of truth everybody. Oh my gosh, there it goes! &quot;Welcome to Setup.&quot; So we're gonna press Enter we're gonna go with... Let's see here, let's just go with &quot;Express Setup&quot; that's fine. Oh you know what? I don't think Windows- yeah see it doesn't ask you to change the drive letter. So it says &quot;insert Disk 2 into Drive D&quot;. Our only hope is for us to put in Disk on the E drive, because that is So we'll put in Disk 2 here. This was a complete oversight on my part. I thought the whole time that it was going and it gives you, like, a file path that you can change. Go to files here. It's in. No, it wants it in drive D. So it's not going to work. I thought this entire time that I was going You know what, I wonder, does custom setup- Oh wait a second! Oh you have to choose custom! So it copies the files from Disk 1, and &quot;where is Disk 2 located?&quot; So, all we have to do is swap the disks out. Okay. Set Disk 1 aside, put Disk 2 in, If i can find the port here. There it is. And now we just wait for it to finish reading, and we type &quot;E:\&quot; That was it! All you had to do was pick Custom Setup. See, I knew i wasn't going crazy! I was like- I thought that was an option and Yeah, it's been a little while since I've installed Windows 3.1. Okay, so now we do the same thing with Disk 3. So we'll unplug the data, unplug the power. Plug the power back in, wait for the drive to initialize. Pop out Disk2, put in Disk 3. Reconnect it to the iPhone. And now we do the F drive. And at this point, it should launch us And we're gonna type in &quot;Michael&quot;- &quot;Michael&quot;, there we go. [Timelapse Music] And oh yeah, that's right Disk 6 does not We're going to- yeah make all modifications the tutorial so that'll be &quot;ALT+K&quot;- or &quot;ALT+S&quot;. &quot;ALT+R&quot; to reboot. Or we can just move the mouse over here and reboot. So we've restarted the app so all we should There we go! Oh my gosh guys. It's one thing getting Windows 3.1 installed on here, I just find this so hilarious. And we did it guys! We did it. We ran into a couple bumps in the road along the way as So here we are. We're in Windows 3.1. Do you want to open up the file manager? You can do that. You can browse around- let's open up some- calendar. Let's get some calendar going. Let's open up- gosh what else do we want to do? Can you tell I'm really excited? You know what? let's open up- let's go to accessories here. And let's write us a- oh we're going So, I can write &quot;Hello world! This document was Or 6s- Yeah I'm thinking of the other video that I was just making. Let's go to Paintbrush here. And oh this will be hilarious. So okay, we're gonna select- You know what? We're gonna make some &quot;super cool&quot; art here man. This is just so- oh no that's not what I want to do- This is just so hilarious, like I just can't get over- I mean like I said, it's one thing running Windows 3.1 on your And you guys have seen- I mean this is really I'm trying to kinda- because you can tap, I was just tapping down You can also, if you go up here to this menu, left and right, so you could if you want to like- and we can hold down the left, and then drag here, I mean, I'm just so happy that we got this working. pretty great video so if you guys enjoyed it and quite like this one. But if you want more from me, a thumbs up and get subscribed down below. Turn on notified whenever i upload a new video which I do And as always guys, I want to thank you all so much [Outro Music]