Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, stop Number one calcium supplements. Huh? I'll bet you, your doctor is telling I bet you all the milk advertisements you see on While it's true, calcium is a part There is no evidence that actually have any benefit in actually In fact, there's some evidence deposit calcium in your blood So you get plenty of bioavailable calcium in the food you eat particularly in vegetables a not insignificant amount of Interestingly enough, people who have the Accialori's in southern Italy are Sardine eaters. What are they eating? They're eating the calcium in And so if you really want to spend buy some sardines, buy some anchovies Number two, multivitamins. So, multivitamins have been around forever. Unfortunately, multivitamins were developed based on examination of 20 college students when the federal government was trying to amount of various vitamins and minerals Diseases like beriberi, diseases like And they wanted to find the bare So they looked at the blood work of 20 college kids are eating and this is what their blood work So that's probably what we need. And that was actually the basis minimal daily requirement Now, the minimum daily requirement with the amount you need for good health. That's totally different. I'll give you an example. The minimum daily requirement for vitamin And yet the University of California San daily requirement for the prevention of cancer is 9,600 And that's nowhere near 400 international units. Recently, there's been a very good paper showing the the better your neurons work. Exactly the opposite D would say. 80% of Americans are deficient Now, vitamin C is essential, We unfortunately, like most other animals, So we have to acquire vitamin C from our diet. How do we do that? Well, long ago, it's conjectured that great we were always eating vitamin C Not only in the fruits, but also in the Guinea pigs don't make They get it from their diet. Strangely enough, vitamin C is made from control this five enzymatic steps that We lack the fifth gene. It's a ghost gene. Why is that important? Let's take rats. Let's genetically engineer them so producing pathway where the fifth gene is a ghost. Those rats live 50% shorter lives than Woah, 50% shorter lives. Now, here's the exciting news. If you put vitamin C in the drinking they will live exactly as long as the So what does that tell you? We really have to How do you do that? Well, if you just swallow a vitamin soluble vitamin and it will be gone So the options are take timed release vitamin C. I personally take 1000 mg twice a If that's too much to ask, get yourself around some 500 mg vitamin C tablets But what you're looking for is a continuous exposure in your But just swallowing one once a day is Number four, ketone drinks. Okay. Ketone drinks are a hot item. You want to be able to swallow your ketones. Here's the problem. Ketone drinks quite frankly, really expensive and there's so much And that is MCT oil. So if you're gonna have a ketone shot, The MCT oil will produce ketones automatically Don't waste your money on expensive ketone drinks. Number five, low quality probiotics. Here's the problem with probiotics. The vast majority of probiotics you're are probably not gonna make it past the acid in So, if you're going to get probiotics, look resist gastric digestion, or look for probiotics acid and will dissolve once the probiotics So, gotta know the delivery device. Now, the other thing that's important to all of these probiotics are not native to our gut if they can get to your gut, but So, probiotics are something that should be a part The vast majority though of probiotics don't have Number six, vitamin E. Vitamin E, to buy either in a multiple vitamin or The wrong isomer of vitamin E. And you should realize that vitamin E is actually There are tocotrienols and tocopherols tocopherol family and the tocotrienol And if you take one with a the benefits of some will cancel So don't waste your money Number seven, iron. As many of you iron is one of those compounds that ages us. We rust from iron and studies show that people who donate blood actually live seven years And women live seven years longer than men. Partially because as you know, you donate blood whereas men don't donate blood Yes. Occasionally you can be iron deficient and you Some women have very heavy periods and may Men, if you have an iron deficiency, or women, that's cause for your doctor to go looking for of iron deficiency as we get older and there's So back to the subject, Recently, you may have seen a big study in help and that they're all a waste Remember, these are studies looking supplements. And quite frankly, it's no wonder that they couldn't find that these supplements So any time you see, these studies, Always look with a critical eye as to what the And it's how much you take that's really the key. As long as you know what the dose I think you're gonna love this one. Most of the blue zones, one of the things that I talk about, most of the blue zones eat only