There was a time when all I had was a mattress minimalist. But the irony is: I didn't even know The reason was much simpler. For my job, I had to relocate to However, I was only able to move in all my stuff done with the commute, though, that I decided I would I was quite surprised to notice how happy Having a new place without roommates for the first in this empty room. I had nothing to do. I didn't I would read a book. Or I would daydream visualizing didn't know about the concept of minimalism. So a And over the years, I accumulated even more. But The first step was getting a new couch. My current But I had started to grow more and more I only used one of the two, and I So I decided to replace them with one carried out of my apartment was exhilarating, Sitting on my new couch, I decided to really This is what really brought minimalism into my free up the walls. When it was done, I was super It brought back to mind those weeks many years Coming full circle, I decided to So here are three ways in which minimalism has Initially, my impression of a minimalist was that has one t-shirt, and lives in a 10 square meter apartment. However, when I started studying minimalism about getting rid of things. In his book 'Goodbye And Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus, I'm still very much a beginner and I do not use shampoo to do the dishes. Yet, I of excess stuff already. And what I found is that take center stage. These items spark joy in me, a Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up.' For example, the first thing I now see is my new couch. And it remember the last few years without it. Another is it really good and does it work well with the by my dad. When I was a teenager, we didn't always and seeing this watercolor painting daily Removing clutter has allowed these objects to The second way in which minimalism has changed my life Empty space literally created headspace. Initially, I planned to fill the room with new stuff after I'd I noticed a feeling of spaciousness because it completely killed my productivity for I picked up my meditation practice again, I went to bed earlier and woke up earlier, too. felt good. One thing I really resonate with is the Things.' It basically means that our possessions time we look at them. You look at your TV and it next episode on Netflix? Also, can you please dust we don't get clean all by ourselves!&quot; Or you look they whisper: &quot;You were gonna organize us two more possessions we have, the longer the silent the menial tasks take up so much headspace that we to us. If we cut down on our possessions though, Prioritizing these messages then gets easier. the capacity to respond right away. This is real about the silent to-do list, I did an entire video The third improvement minimalism brought to What I mean is that, instead of running on autopilot half of the day, I do my best to give the thing I'm doing For exampe, when I'm making a cup of coffee, I focus only I put my phone out of sight or on the other With fewer things in my environment vying for the same time, I'm a creature of habit. And checking emails, social media. At times, it was because of my racing mind. These days, we it's important to be vigilant. By living with more And with each successful attempt, In this book 'Atomic Habits', James Clear He recommends a two-step process. 1. and 2. Then prove it to yourself with small wins. is to change what you do. And it doesn't need to no party or person receives all the votes. There But you don't need a unanimous vote to win an when building habits. It's okay if, through your That's not the end of the world. Your goal This helps me to not be too rigid which will inevitably happen. By trying to be awareness that will ultimately make it easier to And, hopefully, change course in time. So those my life. I'm still learning and figuring things and like this video, if you want to follow me on And please let me know in the comments Thanks so much for watching this video