CLINT: This is a good test needing to get over soon-- whoa, whoa! Jesus. [UPBEAT MUSIC] BRIAN WONG: Here today, we're systems. And we have vehicles from GM, CLINT: As the name implies, lets you do this on the Now technically, Tesla But we both know you weren't and not talk about And we work for you. BRIAN WONG: We'll be on LA freeways. And we're going to test are to activate, how well and even how often they back over to the driver. CLINT: Welcome to a very onto the 405 in Los point of pain in this city. I'm driving a 2023 More importantly, equipped with Ford's BlueCruise This is BlueCruise 1.3, version of the system. And they've made some really This car is going to do It's going to stay in the And it also does automatic we will be testing out. Now this is interesting getting right into is the full LA experience. One thing I love it is very, very You push the button one of the steering wheel. And then when it decides it's time to fire up. Because we're kind of like still, hands free But adaptive cruise control is-- right as it's about to I said we'd be talking about systems, and you just in the first tens of this test. So we're set now Hands-free is active. I see right now that the car The navigation is on the screen. If you get this surrounding the car that's how Hands-Free I wish they gave you on the center screen, as well. It's a giant, 15-inch They probably had room Like most hands-free does not work when you're going What I'm curious to see is how change. So it's preparing lane change. And it does it on its own. This is where I in bumper-to-bumper do an automatic lane change. So in this case, it's just the old-fashioned way, driver's-license style. And there's a Subaru would have gone right into So we're in the first and already, I can point where it's just easier for than have the car do it. I think one thing to me, of why I've come to is that one, it's a lot We own a Ford F-150 Lightning And that car has of BlueCruise, which this week as part of our And it is awful. It is awful by So even the tweaks three versions have It's a lot like One of the parts that's not now is that, like everything it costs money. There's a subscription fee now. You can either pay per of the entire year to So again, like to be putting this feature And it's up to you to you want to pay for it. This is a good test for needing to get over soon-- whoa, whoa! Jesus. OK, let my heart rate It made the lane change. But the difference in speed My heart is racing right now. That's an important need to keep talking about, right now, can still give second, within one second. So your reaction time It's really off-putting when you're not doing the you're in this chill mode. But then you ask the car and you're 5 feet from being We got a long way to go, folks. BRIAN WONG: So I'm here, And we're about to get is where the hands-free So just like the one you can only get in hands-free And we're coming up as soon as this traffic So the system that you're going is an add-on to the And it's called But then the real is that this vehicle called Highway Assistant. Now, most BMWs that have another called Traffic Jam Assistant. And that system only works The one here, in the i7 though, And that's the system going to make its way into more The way you turn turn on the adaptive via this little button It tells me that Assisted But that's not what we want. We want the Assist So you have to wait for the recognize that it's And then another icon in the little tells me Assist Plus is ready. I hit this Mode And then once it you get these little green as well. And then you're in Part of the reason that to test these systems in stressful conditions. So right now, we're actually There's a lot of cars And the system when it saw a actually signal and start But it didn't stop abruptly It just showed that it's paying And I like those that you get from And one of the things that I is it does a very good So there's no real And it also takes into account but doesn't necessarily So even though the right now is drifting towards the i7 is parked This system will also do So if I want to move over here, to the left. It checks, and slides me Very clean system. It doesn't shoot So if you want to you're going to have But in a situation you have a good amount of space, very quickly and very smoothly. One of the things that is that I feel like it fits And that it makes the whole luxurious if the car is without any trouble. We've noticed in our testing-- [DING] Oh. So the system deactivated I was very close to a semi towards my lane. Once the system detected asked me to take control I like that. I think that if the to what's happening around on its environment, that to take over. It also did so via chime there, And the green lights turned off. They might be hands-free, but free. Now this system is part of package from BMW. And it costs $2,100 But for 2024, the actually went up to $2,500. And it also requires you to So it puts you in for But the nice thing about it So once you buy it on the Overall, I would say that I And I also really like have to keep paying for it. You just pay for it BMW has gotten flak for charging But weirdly, they any sort of subscription So it's nice that you'll get this Level 2+ system I'm here in the And this is outfitted with is called Super Cruise. Super Cruise, like only works on mapped highways And right now, GM's around the country So that's a lot of freeway. Most of your major be covered by this system. Super Cruise uses a combination as well as a navigation on one of the mapped highways. And then when those you can use Super Cruise. It also works from all the way up to So to activate Super Cruise, the adaptive cruise control. And then I'm going to hit on the steering wheel. And then as you can will appear here, on And inside the get a steering wheel As long as this I know if the vehicle If it changes to or starts to flash red, that wants me to resume control here. Oh, that was aggressive. [LAUGHS] So right now, we're in But my speed is set right And what Super Cruise is looking around me if it moves into another One of the things in testing this system, is It moves around a lot. It doesn't really have a ton It's just always going lane around you. So someone was they would think, oh, that I understand what It's really just it can to maintain that This is an option that you can if you don't like it. We have it on right And it does bounce would like for my tastes. But it is cool that Here in traffic, seems to be doing pretty well. The vehicle in front is actually driving But my vehicle seems pretty So it's ignoring the bad driving which I like. These systems all the fundamentals nailed down. If you're in any kind of anything between, I would all these systems seem I'm going to try to execute It didn't allow me to I think because Automatic lane changes above a certain speed because changing is actually more dangerous. And you have to shoot would on an open highway. So because of that, I'm going this lane change, Once the lane change snapped back on right that I really like, as well. The system seems to try to and keep you in this And I really like that. One thing that is tap the brake to resume I get a little And then a little red light just to make sure that I There's not really a But I think that's that the car wants especially the Ooh, another Nicely-- oh, no, Oh, this system is in the auto lane changes today. It definitely had a gap but it chose not to. But the weird thing is, halfway and then decides to So it looks like I'm like, So if you're behind me, you see me go halfway in I really don't like that. I think that if I were to consistently, I would turn and feel more confident I do like that the is pretty communicative the system is seeing. So for example, when I initiated it tells me that it's with a little icon and shows And that's an important is how well they can actually to either retake the driver that the vehicle And again, once you're these systems operate and you're able to relax more. And it actually lower the So ultimately, do is they make you And the more aware, are as a driver, the Now, how much does Here, on the CT5-V, there's a packages. But the cheapest way to add Cruise 1 package. But that also requires you packages, which means for the system on this Now that $6,000 doesn't buy That is good for a three-year And then after, to have to pay $25 a month My overall impressions of Super I do like that this light, here, wheel, to let me know when I like that it also uses And the hand-offs And I like that when it it tells you, in the But downsides would be that feel a bit gimmicky to me. They don't really you're wanting to have happen. And there were several saw, where it tries to oh, maybe not, and And if I were to be driving was doing that, always maybe changing lanes, I'd be very confused. CLINT: All right, everybody. Welcome back to our the 2020 Tesla Model Y, or Full Self-Driving beta. And I'm now going to tell a silly name because this is the do hands-free driving. This car requires you to keep wheel even when all of So that's what we're So right now, I'm doing And I'm applying a If I were to take I'm not going to do because the system will ask you sure you're there. And if you ignore it, if of the steering wheel, the Autosteer capability. And in a really severe you can only do this so many your FSD altogether. It'll just take it away. If you keep violating choose not to put your hands you'll lose your privileges, [&quot;LAW AND ORDER&quot; CHIME] Activating Autopilot, is as easy as it gets. It's just the right-hand [BLOOP] --two presses down, Also going to give our full beta so we can see what's going on. Super cool, actually. You can see in real-time including all the Let's talk about FSD is not cheap, especially is in its beta form. If you were to buy a new Tesla, It's double the price And that's nuts. You can also pay What we're doing right now And we're heading back to The difference is going versus the other this will keep the system It'll actually work on What I've learned in testing is it's really, really good Now we've all seen and on YouTube of the cars to do something they I will say, when in a situation like we're using for the rest of the Keep your hands on the wheel. It stays in the lanes. It's actually really good You can choose to select when Or it'll even do it sees that there's an get you somewhere quicker. Here's the real test. This is a lane where We're going to start to So let's see how the car There are cars in front of me, Let's hope it doesn't We're dead even with Who's going to win? That was very well done. That was the best OK, the care is now deciding I didn't do anything with that. It's changing lanes all on its It's noticing that the traffic and is going to try to get us It's doing it again. It's another area Autopilot is top of the pile. When it comes to will identify it's time to make It's assertive but It seems to know how This is where things in intensity because we are I do this for you people. I do this for you. All right, uncharted The Tesla is the only car that off the highway. Here's test number one, It handled itself really This, I got to say, is The car is putting It's now making a if I might add, not very Now it puts on is reading the traffic, and is driving. I want to be clear, I'm driving. But at the same time, the car I'm just having That's a new situation. This is crazy for the lets this happen, and that at this point. It's a whole different it's appropriate for the car and how they get away with it. But the simple fact that is worth acknowledging Trust the robots, Clint. Trust the robots. All right, this is your time. [BLINKER CLICKING] Here we go. There's some more braking. I will say, that's of FSD on the road. When it comes to turning and it could definitely That's the very it's not as good as a driver. Here's the next obstacle. We have traffic in And it wants us to go We're either going to be or it's going to do something I have no idea why it's OK, it's creeping up, Oh, I don't like this. Traffic dies down. This should be your time, car. It's paralyzed. Oh, my goodness. Oh, my goodness. Oh, my goodness. We're now very close OK, yeah, we're hanging This is not cool. OK, now we are And it did it. It did it in the end. But I didn't like how far Maybe blame that on But something about that Here we are. We're back at the office. So this has done something This got us all the including off the highway. It brought us back It's not a hands-free pretty impressive. We've also been driving But-- BRIAN WONG: We 2.0, while good, not quite as So it didn't quite make CLINT: Maybe next time. So the most advanced also the scariest system here. Tesla gets fourth You can't win a BRIAN WONG: If you don't The Tesla was the highest of When we like the on the Tesla the out of all these vehicles. But on the street, But it kind of falls short Those things are all hard And the Tesla tries. We applaud its ambition. But not quite there yet. CLINT: The FSD The next version of whatever that means. So like our tech bro friends BRIAN WONG: That means that the Ford is going to come in And Clint, before that the Ford was probably CLINT: Straight up. And then I drove it all and it tried to hurt but three different times. They need to get this in just a bit better. It's not there yet. BRIAN WONG: The other thing that is that it's not very So it has this thin instrument And when it wants there are some very but there aren't always So there can be times you to resume taking and you don't even know it. So you up with this you think that the the car thinks you're driving, driving. CLINT: But like Tesla, Ford there. They're not done yet. Remind me real quick, the for this system? BRIAN WONG: Ah, that would Assistant. And so for the BMW, the is how smooth it was. So it speeds up smoothly, it changes lanes smoothly. And that really fits It makes it feel even more And that's hard to do. CLINT: I can't believe but it felt a little There were times where I felt on the highway because the Go a little faster. Go a little faster. BRIAN WONG: Yeah, the system when it comes to safety, But one system that was is Super Cruise, in the GM. And that's here, in the Those auto lane changes, But you can turn those off. And once those are off, super did everything we CLINT: When you're giving you want to feel and like everything And everything keeps you calm, as the driver. That's why it's our favorite. BRIAN WONG: And unlike the You have this-- it's part where it tells you if it's going You have this nice light on in your field of vision, so it glows red instead of green. You know immediately, I need again. The handoff from car to with Super Cruise And that's, in part, CLINT: I got to These are hands-free And at one point or another, were straight-up sketchy BRIAN WONG: Yeah, a moment where we know what the car is doing. We'll call it oopsie moment. But it's also like where us to jump in and be available to make sure that we avoided And yeah, that's just a reminder within one second, to be ready to take control So you need to have you need to have to be ready to really resume CLINT: But the times, BRIAN WONG: And a level-three [GASPS] CLINT: Easiest way to been driving a vehicle? He leaves a trace. Spending time on Not having to use your hands BRIAN WONG: I feel like ours Clint's. Don't tell him I said that.