- I love a good chicken sandwich, especially when it's a And I'm in for a treat today, and she's gonna show me how to make spicy fried chicken sandwiches, - Bridget, you're definitely We're gonna get crispy chicken sandwiches in like, less than half an hour. - Okay, so it's fast food at home. - Yeah. The best. One of the most important parts is that crispy crust, right? The first thing we're gonna do and we're gonna start Because we're air frying, but you need some oil, you need that richness that gets absorbed. And so we're gonna get that from two tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil. I'm just gonna pour this right and I just want this So this looks nicely coated. I'm just gonna pop this help them start crisping. I'm gonna microwave this until the crumbs pick that takes anywhere between and I'll stop halfway I don't know if you can hear this, but it's sizzling a tiny bit and it's just... - Sounds like my breakfast cereal. - Snap, crackle, pop. And it's picked up just That's perfect. Lovely. So I'm just gonna transfer That's gonna help the and also makes dredging easier. Next step is the &quot;glue,&quot; those crumbs to the chicken. If we were to do this traditionally, there'd be that three-step method, right? Where you've got your and then you go into the Yeah it's a little bit messy, that's a little bit faster - [Bridget] Great. - I'm gonna start with one large egg and one tablespoon of flour, and that's our flour and egg all in one. And what happens when you do as soon as you dip the you're forming a batter. And so we're gonna skip the extra bowl and just make the batter in one bowl. Since we have this here, this opportunity to flavor that batter. Here's where the spice comes in. I've got two tablespoons of hot sauce. And you can use your I've also got half a quarter teaspoon of kosher salt, and an eighth of a I'm just going to whisk those together. All I'm looking for here is of flour so that we have Okay, that looks pretty good. So now for our chicken. I'm gonna make four sandwiches here from two eight-ounce chicken breasts. These are boneless, skinless breasts. You can see that there's and a thinner end, and that That'll dry out and overcook. So to make sure that they cook evenly, I'm just gonna pound them out. But before I do that, I want to cover them so that we don't get any icky splatters. And just a meat pounder, I'm just really evening (meat pounder pounding) This looks great. So I just wanna have these crosswise now that they're pounded That looks pretty good to me. - [Bridget] And you can pounding at first and then cutting. - [Lan] Yeah, you don't want to guess and then find out you've and the other is way too small. - [Bridget] I have done - I'm gonna pat these dry. These need just a little bit of seasoning and I'm gonna season these by eye. I like to use kosher salt for this. The grains are coarser, the grains as they leave your hand. You know how much you're using, but they're also slower to so you can actually see how much salt is landed in each part. I'm just holding my hand about maybe six, eight inches above the chicken, and I'm looking for a And you can see that salt is staying there so I can get a good idea Would you do me a favor? Do you wanna pepper these - I was hoping you'd ask. All right, you say when. - That looks great. So we'll flip these over Next up, we're just gonna dredge, and I wanna use one hand for the wet and one hand for the dry. It just keeps everything So I wanna let excess batter and that looks looking pretty good. We'll go right into this bowl of crumbs, and I just wanna press these crumbs right into that chicken All right. Last piece. And we have just enough panko to make a nice, generous layer. So I'm gonna wash my hands - Great. Looking for kitchen inspiration on the go? Check out the &quot;America's cook with confidence and and more wherever you go. Access thousands of fail-proof how-to videos, and full With smart searching, it's your ultimate kitchen companion. Download the &quot;America's Test - Bridget, here's my coffee maker. - You're making a lot of coffee. - I'm very excited. Right? This is our air fryer here, but I'm slowly becoming a convert. It's so quick and easy. - [Bridget] Great. Not all models require preheating, but this one works better with a preheat. I'm just gonna select &quot;air fry.&quot; Now, we're gonna cook these at 400 degrees and depending on your air fryer, it's gonna take 12 to 16 minutes. Whenever I see a range on these recipes, I always select the lowest and make sure that it's not overcooked and add more time if it needs it. So I'll set this to 12 minutes (air fryer beeping) and we'll set the Hit start. It's preheating. This It's not like the oven where This is gonna take maybe three. - Gotcha. And this is basically - Yeah. Air fryers are great because in a concentrated space, and so the radiant heat in but the fan blows moisture and helps it brown that much faster. - Gotcha. - Okay, we're ready. Slide this out a little bit more. I wanna make sure there's space in between each piece of chicken so - [Bridget] Very important. - I'm gonna flip this chicken Bridget, it has been 12 - [Bridget] I heard a ding. - Don't they look great? - [Bridget] They do look great. Yeah. - Don't sound so surprised. - Well, I do not have an air fryer. I'm very intrigued by them. But you have to do to take up space in my tiny kitchen. - Fair enough. So I wanna check these and make and I'm looking for 160. Great. Let's get these outta here. - [Bridget] Lovely. Oh, came right out of the skillet. - Yeah, they're beautiful. While this air fryer is still hot, I'm gonna toast our buns in here as well. - It's a fryer and a toaster? - It is a fryer and a toaster. - It's a fryer and a toaster. - So this recipe makes but I'm just gonna toast - Okay. So I'm only gonna We can toast up more for seconds. - Great. - This actually only takes I'm gonna set this for one. Ooh. While that's working, I'm gonna make a quick sauce for us. I've got a quarter cup of mayo, and to that, I'm adding one Great. Nice and simple. Look at this. - [Bridget] That's actually a better job than my oven does it toasting. - So let's build these sandwiches. I'm gonna start with a little, or a lot, of the creamy, spicy sauce. - [Bridget] You do whatever and I will judge you - That doesn't make me You can hear how crispy it is. - [Bridget] Absolutely. - We've got two cups of shredded iceberg and you can use as much - [Bridget] Great. - So I've got a quarter cup and I'm just gonna add - [Bridget] That's a site to behold. Are you a squisher? - [Lan] I am. - [Bridget] Super crunchy. Chicken actually tastes like something. It tastes seasoned, and it kind of hits you up - We hope you enjoyed this video as much as we enjoyed making it. - Don't forget to hit that like button and subscribe to our channel. - And if you're ready to take your cooking to the next level, head over and get a free, all-access - While you're there, you can sign up for our free email newsletters With unlimited access to over 14,000 of our test kitchen recipes you'll have everything you So I ask, what are you waiting for? - (laughs) Let's make