- [Dispatch Woman] - [Dispatch Man] 44, go ahead. - [Dispatch Woman] Respond to report of a crash - [Dispatch Man] (tense music) (siren ringing) (engine revving) - [Jonathan] When you you see that God's not there. (tense music) (siren ringing) (emotional music) Tell me, pastor, why does God let bad things Why is God silent? - Do you really think that God, the creator of heaven and Earth, and everything in it is silent? You really think he's just Maybe he's talking, Jonathan, and you're just not listening. - I wonder what you'd say if (melancholy music) My dad was my best friend, and my best memories of doing what we loved. - Yeah? (water splashing) You know, I remember one time and I put a bass line All of a sudden, my Something big got it. I finally pull him up to and the three of us pulled and got it on the It was 105 pounds. It was five foot long. - Five foot? - So what do you think, if we take you deep sea fishing? - [Jonathan] For real? - For real. - Wow, that's pretty cool. (laughing) - I can't think of a better way to celebrate your next birthday than to take you - [Jonathan] I didn't but that was my last I can remember the As a kid you never - Daddy's really sick, and Jesus is going to (emotional music) (whispering) You're going (sobbing) I promise. We are going to be okay. - Hi, Jonathan. Come in. Come in. You'll be the man Mom's gonna need you - Who's going to take - Sorry, Jonathan. I won't be able to It's almost my time, I'm sorry. No. - [Jonathan] I still regret not I regret not - [Mom] No! (crying) Come on. No, no. (sobbing) No, no, - [Jonathan] That was the day I realized God God didn't care about any of us. Even if he was real, why (dramatic music) - [Dad] Sorry, Jonathan. I won't be able to You'll be man of the house soon. Mom's going to need - [Mom] Hey! Jonathan? - Why did daddy die? We prayed for him. Who's gonna take care of you? Who's going to take care of me? - I'm sorry, son. I'm sorry. - [Jonathan] You're not, - [Mom] Jonathan, wait. Please, (yelling) Jonathan. Jonathan! - Eight years later, I was - Let's go, Jonathan move it. Come on. Come on, get them out of there. Come on, move it. (gun blasting) Jonathan, why do you - I want to make (gun blasting) (tense music) Get back, get back. Get back! Fire. (gun blasting) I want to protect I want to be a better man, sir. - We'll see about that. - Put your hands on the ground. - Welcome to the force. Congratulations, Hickory. You made it. - Thank you, sir. (upbeat music) (engine revving) - Hey! - How did it go? - I don't think - I'm sure you did better - Yeah. - Well, listen. You're smart. You know what you're doing. I'm sure you're going to figure right? - Yeah. - I guess that's at the new Officer Hickory. - No? - Oh yeah. - Oh yeah! (giggling) - I'm so happy for you! - Put this on, strap up. Ready? (engine revving) (emotional music) Stacy, did I ever of the most beautiful - No. - Once upon a time, there was a girl so beautiful she lit up every She was confident, greenish eyes that and radiant blonde hair that Now you might be wondering to the most beautiful Well, she met some lucky chump, gave him her number on a napkin with a note that I didn't. Stacy Evangeline. They say in life we only but I've been falling in for the last three And if you promise I plan on falling in and over, and over again, for the rest of my life. So will the most beautiful (grunting) (giggling) (cheering) - I wish your father were here. - Yeah, me too. - He's be so proud of you. Oh, I love you my son. - I love you, mom. - Oh, I know that! - I'm so happy for you. - Oh, mom. Bye mom. (emotional piano music) Stacy was the best thing She's the reason I'm here today. She's the love of my life. I really don't deserve her. - She sounds like - She is. - What happened to When did things go wrong? - [Team] On my honor, I my integrity, my character, or the public trust. I will always have the and others accountable I will also hold the community, and So help me, God. - [Steve] Officer Hickory? - Yes, sir. - Steve Watson, field - Nice to meet you. - You ready? - Let's go. So I read your file. Looks like you were but trust me, there is no training that could prepare you for the streets. Look, I know you just got I get it. But you got to get your These streets are tough. If you aren't sharp and focused, these streets will and it will get you - Yes, sir. Look, I'm here to learn. You won't have to - Let's get this straight. I run a tight ship. We do it by the book. If you want to you do what I say, If you hesitate, it Now fix your collar. You're a professional and - Bet you're fun at parties. - No, I am not fun. Now get in the car. - So are we getting - New rule. You have something - Yes sir. - [Dispatch Woman] - This us? - 71, go ahead. - [Dispatch Woman] Respond to in the 900 block of Thurman Road for the reports of shots fired. A caller stated armed with assault rifles, multiple shots heard, - In the 71, on location. - This is it, huh? So what's the plan. - Keep your head on a swivel. We don't know what Here's your pack and tourniquet. - What? (tense music) (guns blasting) - [Steve] Base, shots fired. Hope they showed you (tense music) Right, we got to go. - [Jonathan] I'm gonna (gun blasting) Hear that? - [Steve] Mhm. - [Jonathan] That's them. - [Steve] Yep. - [Jonathan] All right, - [Steve] I got you. (guns blasting) - (yelling) Police, Put your gun down! I will shoot, put Put your gun down now. Now! (tense music) I almost shot him. - I know. - I almost shot him. You know why? You used your brain. Good instincts, son. Good instincts, come on. (tense music) (distant chatting) - [Jonathan] Police, freeze. Get on the ground now! - What's going on? - [Jonathan] All of hands where I can see them. - Officer, I got a couple cold - I don't drink on the job, man. Come on, watch your head. (sighing) - Hey, hey, You did a good job - Thanks. (phone buzzing) - Hi! - Hey baby, how are you? - [Stacy] I'm good, I'm - Yeah? - [Stacy] Is everything okay? - Yeah, everything's going fine. It's a slow night, - Well, I miss you. - I miss you too. I just wanted to call and tell you I love you. - I love you too. - Yeah. Well look, I got to go, so don't wait up for me, okay? Good night, I love you. (distant chatting) Sorry about that. - Hey man, it's all right. Listen, you did the We don't need to bring Our families don't need to - [Dispatch Woman] Any available the Shinston Road - Let's go. (alarm blaring) - [Dispatch Woman] With the with entrapment and injury. Report of a vehicle down Witnesses reporting to be racing before the crash. Unknown if any other vehicles (thunder rumbling) - [Steve] Check that (grunting) (eerie music) - Dispatch, this looks serious. 11 80, put a rush on that body. Hey, Police, stay right there. - [Dispatch Woman] - Sydney. She was 16. Sydney would never She would never get married, never experience motherhood. All her hopes, dreams, gone. Her entire life (haunting music) - You doing all right? - I've never seen someone - Look, police work isn't easy. You see a lot of crazy Let me tell you I found one thing that helps - What's that? - Couldn't do this - Really? Here, take this. That's our church. You should stop by some time. Come on, let's go. - [Jonathan] Death This is the hardest They have no idea, huh? - No idea whatsoever. (chanting quietly) - What are you doing? - Reading the Bible. - Why? - Because it helps me. (sighing) - [Jonathan] How do you tell (woman sobbing) (woman crying) - No, no, (eerie music) (slow rock music) - [Thomas] Hey rook, - Who are you? - I'm Thomas. - Jonathan, nice to meet you. - Good to meet you. - I heard you ran into some - Yeah, that's I don't know how you - Hey, look kid. After a while you - Yeah, some days doing paperwork for eight hours, and the next day (laughing) - Where's Watson. - Oh, guys a square. Doesn't drink at all. He'll never step foot in here. - [Thomas] We heard How are you handling that? - I mean, I've never experienced something like that It is what it is. - Hey guys, to the rookie. - [Thomas] To the rookie. - [Rodriguez] Get - [Thomas] To the rookie. - Thank you. - It'll get easier. Sooner or later, you - [Jonathan] You - You be safe, (groaning) (sighing) - [Stacy] Hi. - Hey. - Oh, you stink. Mm, where have you been? - Few of the guys, they wanted to celebrate Couldn't say no. - So how was the (sobbing) - It was different. My FTI was a nice guy, I met We got donuts and joked around. - Good. - Now go get some rest, I'll catch up with you, okay? - I love you. - [Jonathan] I love you too. (sighing) (woman sobbing) (tense music) (woman crying) (woman sobbing) - [Mom] No, no, - Thank you. Can y'all help me (emotional music) The Lord, Jonathan but I think this job is I think that he sees things that he can't talk I sense that it's hurting him. It's changing him. I feel like he's and he needs you, God. I know that God can help him, and that through that I can get my husband back. Amen. (door knocking) - Hey Jonathan, come on in. - [Jonathan] Lieutenant. - It's good to see you. - [Jonathan] It's - Please have a seat. So I've been and he tells me you - Just doing my job, sir. - Well, that's Apparently you're We're thinking How you feel about the - You pulling my leg? - No, I am not. As part of that, you get a Congratulations, son. - Wow, this, it's an honor, sir. Thank you so much. - Well, you know what? You've earned it. Just don't make me regret it. - [Jonathan] I'll do my best-- - All right. (whistling) - Look at that, nice. Yeah, and we can afford that, but they can't upgrade - I know, kills me. - Wow, who's the lucky chump? - No idea. Certainly isn't you, Hickory. - [Thomas] Oh, no way. - There's no way on God's green earth they're Hey, were you able to to go over that head of yours? - Don't be mad they don't make these for senior - Oh, that's cold dude. - What was that? - [Rodriguez] That is cold, bro. That's cold. - One more time, - That's cold, bro. Man, I can't believe - [Thomas] I know. (engine revving) - [Dispatch Woman] - [Jonathan] 44, go ahead. - [Dispatch Woman] 44 respond of Second Street We have report of a multiple occupants, possibly unknown injury. Fire and rescue are responding. - [Jonathan] 44, 10 four. (tense music) (quiet rock music) - [Rodriguez] That bad, huh? - Whole family. It was horrible. - [Rodriguez] What It's part of the job. Someone's got to do it. (glasses clinking) (eerie music) (child yelling) - Johnathan, you not hungry? Jonathan? (alarm ringing) (sighing) (yawning) (upbeat music) - Hey, kid. Mrs Hickory, where is she? - Excuse me, is everything okay? - Yeah, I'm just - Oh, third door on the left. Hey, walking feet! Are you okay, sweetie? - So, can anybody - [Class] (inaudible) - Good job. And how about this? - [Class] Funnel. - [Stacy] Funnel, good job. And what about this? (gasping) - We're having a baby? We're having a baby? (students cheering) I'm gonna be a dad! (students cheering) - Look what we - Let her sleep. (door rattling) (drink pouring) (emotional music) (bottles clinking) Okay, all right. You got her? And you know her sleep schedule, and you know she gets - Mhm. - Are you sure you need me? - (whispers) No, we're fine. - You sure? Okay. And you're going - Yeah. - [Stacy] Okay. (tense music) (baby Ana crying) - Shh. Shh. (tense music) (glasses rattling) (sniffing) (sighing) (glasses clinking) (tense music) - Drunk driving is cause of death on our roadways. Two out of three by a drunk driving which is why we take this It is reserved for an officer, an exceptional above and beyond to He is a shining who is making our It is my honor to to Officer Jonathan Hickory. (audience clapping) - Hey. - Johnathan, you - [Kim] Thank you - Wow. Thank you everyone. It is an honor and a pleasure Family comes first in our lives. With another baby on the way, we know just how important it I unfortunately know better than most the horrific, tragic effects of drunk driving. It's heartbreaking The effects of just limited to to our family members, our friends, our kids. Thank you. (clapping) - [Dispatch Woman] - [Jonathan] 44, go ahead. - [Dispatch Woman] Respond to report of a crash - [Jonathan] 44, copy. I'm on my way. (siren ringing) Hey, what have you got for me? - Hey man, took you long enough. I actually do have Here, it's his wallet. - Whose wallet? - The guy on the - Oh, man. - [Fireman] What? - I know this guy, I went Uh, where did you say? - Right over there, (dramatic music) - Thanks. (tense music) - (yelling) Get out. Get out now. Get out. Look at what you did, He had a family, and a wife, and you killed him. You killed him! You killed him. Look at this, look at this. You killed him, you killed him. (emotional music) I couldn't understand I looked into the and all I saw was sadness. Pure sadness. No anger, no resentment. They just missed their kid. They should be angry at They should hate him. But they couldn't. They were calm, and peaceful, and that infuriated me. He was this drunk who of their loved one over some and they just forgave him. Just like that. If there's one thing I know, its that we're all gonna end What's the point in this life? What difference does I don't understand. Where was Jesus when through three lanes - Jonathan, Jesus Why don't you blame Satan? - Oh God, come on Satan. - Oh, so it's okay to but not Satan? Not the one that the Bible kill, and destroy? He gets no credit? That family had peace Because they know there's Because this life It's broken. We broke it, sin broke it. - I'm having a really - If you got it all figured out, then what are we doing here? - [Jonathan] I don't know. - Why did you want to talk? Do you want help? I'm trying to help you. - You wouldn't understand. - Then make me understand. - It was Sunday, October 20th. (sighing) My wife was in her 20th week. (screaming) Stacy? - [Stacy] Make it - [Jonathan] Stacy, Stacy, open up. - Stacy passed the - What do you mean - Stacy passed the baby. Go Jonathan, call 911. (distant crying) - My wife is 20 weeks pregnant, and she just, she just passed the baby. (emotional music) (crying) (whispering) I can't do this. I can't do this. At 14 weeks, the brain impulses in an unborn baby begin to fire. At 15 weeks, the unborn At 19 weeks, the babies Touch, taste, vision, smell, and hearing. Christian was 20 weeks old. (melancholy music) - Dear God, hear us as We pray for their comfort Hear (inaudible), We pray that you lift their In your name we pray, amen. (melancholy music) (crying) - I'll clean up, okay? - Look. You are not alone, all right? You should come (smashing) (screaming) (emotional music) (crashing) (emotional music) - God, I pray for my husband. He is a good man. I know deep down But he needs you. He needs your help. He's still the man that I love. He's my Jonah, and he's lost at sea. He needs you. This is my last prayer, God, and I don't know how, We need your help For me. For Ana. For Jonathan. (crying) I need you to Please help him, God. Bring him back. - Okay, yep. - [Female Officer] report to Lieutenant - Let me call you back. - Johnathan, come in. These detectives are Have a seat. - [Jonathan] Can I ask - I think you know You're under investigation for violating our code of conduct. You'd better hope you were involved You are to hand over your departmental laptop along with all the lock And you will not discuss this is that clear? You're dismissed. (eerie music) - This is the story of Jonah. Jonah was a good man, but he was scared. - [Ana] What did he do, mommy? - [Stacy] Jonah didn't know that God had a special and God found a way God sent a storm, and he sent a big fish and bring him back. And in the end Jonah He did God's final He did the right thing. (gun clicking) (tense music) (coughing) (gun clicking) (bell ringing) - What's the point of this life? What difference does it make? (choral singing) - You've seen so much death. Your whole profession revolves around the evil in this world. You see Satan's It must be tough. The thief comes to steal, to kill, and to destroy. You've let him rob of your family, of your life. It's time you fought back. (choral singing) You need the only one who's You need Jesus. You've been doing things How's that working out for you? It's time you did - I don't know. - I do. You need to be honest about your drinking, about the way you've been There are consequences and Jesus is not But Jesus will change you. You want to be a man about this? You want to make things right? You want to fix it? First you have to surrender That's the first step. - Honey, I realized I I know I haven't I know I've been a disaster. But that's all going to change, because last night I I spoke to him for and I promised Him that I'm better father, better husband. I'm going to make it Stacy, what I'm Please. - Okay. - I'm working on it. I'm going to be better. - Okay, this one's for you, and this one's for me. Careful, you got it? - Wow, say thank you. - Thank you. (laughing) - Jonathan, you do you right? You sitting here with spending time with us. (whispering) - It's gonna get better. - Exactly what she said. - Jonathan, our - I know, I promise things Next time we're - No, ice cream. - Ice cream again. - Ice cream, uh-huh. (phone buzzing) - Is it good? - [Ana] Yeah. - Yeah, all right. - [Jonathan] I'm Be right back. - Okay. - Lieutenant? - Jonathan, I need to I have to result of - What flavor are you - [Ana] Vanilla. - You didn't like this one? - [Ana] No. - All right, I guess - Oh my goodness gracious. Who was it? - Oh, it was Lieutenant. - They need you? - No, just saying hi. - Okay. (engine revving) (bells chiming) - You again? Well, at least this time you - I need your help. - Sure. What's going on? - I'm an idiot. - I take it you - No, I haven't. - You need to tell - I can't tell her. She's going to I don't know what I would - Well, if you don't tell her, you're going to lose I sense there's - The force, they found did an entire investigation. I'm about to find I screwed up. Really, really screwed up. I could really use - I told you before, there are and praying won't But God promises you through those consequences. - I'm not asking for a miracle. I know there are consequences, but I also believe that Please could you just - Of course. - God, please help - You know what, being an officer in this Well do you? We demand all of our All of them. And you? You don't. - Yes sir, I understand-- - I'm sorry, I believe As for the charge. Officer behaving in a in violation of For that, you're guilty. Dismissal without pension, Nothing. That's the verdict. (slow emotional music) - This job is all I know, sir. It's my passion. It's what I'm good at. It's the only thing I'm good at. I didn't come here but we both know that this line of work gets inside your head, and between things I've seen I've been a wreck. I've been avoiding my problems, and this job is, being here, it's the only feel like I'm I know I need to be held and I don't deserve this job. I don't deserve my family. But I want you to know I'm going to be a better man. - Look, Jonathan, I know you, okay? I know this isn't like you. Look at me? You know I'm actually willing You know why? Because at the end of the day and I truly believe everyone That's why I fought for you. And guess what? That's why I got them to - (whispers) Thank you. - Oh no, no, no, don't thank me yet. Oh no, you will be disciplined. You will no longer be a and that take home vehicle? Yeah, that's going. You will immediately be sent on a midnight shift, Now give me the keys to the Look, Jonathan? I am taking a huge risk on Huge. Tell me I'm not - I won't let you down, sir. - These are the keys Car 305. You prove to me and in a year, maybe we can Don't make me regret this. You're dismissed. (engine revving) - So what's with the - I got put back on nights. Start tomorrow night. - What? - Yeah, I got some They swapped me over - Jonathan, how? I mean, you've been What happened? - It was a vehicle remember the one I - Yes. And? - And I gave the Didn't write them up, turns Look, I think I'll like I wont to have to deal who knows, maybe - A good thing? Jonathan, how is this You're never going to see us. - Look, it's only for a while. Okay? We'll make it work. - Yeah, I guess. - I love you, don't worry. We'll figure it out, okay? - [Stacy] (whispers) Okay. (slow music) - [Dispatch Woman] three to Rocco's liquor store, 1260 East Main Street with Caller stated they say a forcing his way into a black (sirens ringing) - Hey, freeze! (yelling) Stop right there! (dramatic music) (grunting) Unit 44, I need back up. - [Dispatch Woman] We have back up on the way. Any available unit (grunting) (grunting) - Don't move! (emotional music) (bottle clinking) - Hi Megan, hi Ana, what's going on? - I'm taking Ana to We'll be right back. - Oh, okay. Hey, what are you doing here? - Get in the car Jonathan. - What's going on? - Just get in the car now. (slow music) - Jonathan, what happened? You were my best friend. You were the one that I that I loved unconditionally, that I went there and I Does it not mean What happened to my husband Where were you? You were getting drunk, you were working night This is what you were doing? When I laid there every needing you here, needing my to tell me that he loves me, and you're out sleeping Do you even know Do you know what You are not the man that I You broke us. You broke me. What happened? (sobbing) No, because you're not sorry. No, don't touch me. (sobbing) (emotional choral music) - Stacy, you should that Jonathan came to see me, he told me all about the He told me about the infidelity. He also told me that you and he didn't feel This is one of things that could ever Jonathan, it took you years It's gonna take you a But you're going to have to ask yourself the hardest questions. Do you want to fix this? Do you want to move You're gonna have to look and you're gonna have to decide is this family It's gonna be a long journey, but if you turn toward God, (Stacy crying) (glass shattering) (door slamming) (thunder rumbling) There are consequences and Jesus will not change that. But Jesus will change you. You want to be a man about this? You want to make things right? You want to fix it? First you have to surrender That's the first step. (bottles clinking) (emotional music) (glasses clinking) (smashing) - I've been a slave to I am sick and tired God, God please. Give me the strength to (triumphant music) (glass shattering) I don't know where to begin. (slow music) I hate myself, I hate to my family, to Ana. And the weight of all and I'm having a lot of - Jonathan, that burden is not That weight on your shoulders You have to give it to - I just want my wife (glass smashing) (breathing heavily) - It's gonna take time. - Hey, I can do that for you-- - Don't touch me, - It's not gonna be easy. You have to push through. You have to believe She believed for years Now it's your turn - Jesus, help me become the Forgive me for what I've done. Help heal our wounds. Help me fix this mess Hi, Ana. Could I talk to you for Come here. You know your daddy loves Very, very, very much. Look, I know daddy's and that's not your fault, okay? I want you to know to never be mean Okay? I love you, sweetheart. I'm sorry. Could you forgive me? (emotional music) - Okay. Well, before we can make any Jonathan, you're gonna Now I know you from the loss of your father, so I want you to try something. We are going to try an exercise. I want you to pretend your (laughing quietly) - You want me to play - Jonathan, we're going before we can work on Now I want you to as if your father right here in front of you. I want you to say all the (emotional music) - Dad? Dad? Dad, you were my best friend. You were my hero. I miss you. I wish you were here. I wish you were here the Academy to become I wish you were here and meet your She's just like you, smart, funny. I want to tell you because I feel like I didn't It's not fair. I never heard the words, good job, son. I miss you, son. You're a good son. I couldn't say the word dad. I just want to because I feel like I didn't I feel like God took I feel like a piece and I'm never going (emotional music) (rain pouring) All right, well, get home safe, okay? - [Ana] Yeah, this one's cute. - [Stacy] Mhm, I like her shoes. - [Ana] Yeah. - [Stacy] Hey, who - [Ana] Me! - You both do? Okay. Ana, you're first. What's it say? - I am soft and - [Jonathan] That's a tough one. - What do you think would - A blanket? - Where do you keep blankets? - The bedroom. - I have one for you too. (giggling) - Daddy, I found it. It was under the pillow. - You did, what did you get? - A princess crown. - Wow, what a beautiful crown. Beautiful crown for I got a clue too. - [Ana] What is it? - Something waits for What do you think? - I don't know. - Could it be in the safe? - [Ana] Maybe! - Only one way to (beeping) - What'd you get? What'd you get, what'd you get, what'd you get? What'd you get? What'd you get, what'd you get, what'd you get? We're having another baby? - We're having a baby. - We're having a baby? - We're having a baby, Oh, we're having a baby. Wow! You'll need to Yeah, you too. - Come on now, let's take Okay sweetie? Let's get your hair, - You're so beautiful, You're the best thing We had faith, you held on. I love you, you're my heart. - I'm just so happy I love you. - Ana, get over here. All righty, come on. - All right, make it a good one. All right guys, say cheese. - Cheese. (emotional music)