Mega Man Zero was a good game that needed in Mega Man history. Mega Man Zero 2 did just that and turned out to iron out, but Mega Man Zero 3 is where This is easily the fan favorite of the entire during the X retrospective, my favorites were X3 not being far behind. But despite having played all of those games them. Where would I rank it? Well, the title says all, but I can explore This wasn't always my perspective though, it was my least favorite of the Zero saga really "get it". But of course, as time went on, I saw the and Zero 3 greatly went up the more I explored This game isn't without flaws though, but Since I don't have too much to say in regards I noticed. In fact, I was going to put this in the X7 But have any of you ever noticed just how Japan than in other regions? Oh, I am sure you are well aware of the infamous games, but since that has been talked into when I review the classic series one day. Japan did get the better boxes in the classic the X and Legends games. I guess they thought shots of characters standing than you know...artwork, but hey, at least Europe has always had some hit and miss Mega Shit hits the fan when you reach the sixth Instead of speaking of it, let me show you. This is Mega Man X7 in Japan, looks great, in America, it is fine, we have all the characters, hades! What is that? X artwork I have never seen anywhere else, the box, you name it. Worst part being these tacky solid color backgrounds it has more depth than it actually does. But the worst part being...every Mega Man garbage! X Command Mission, X8 with this...green looking touched as well, with minimal effort to distinguish But the reason I have saved this absolute worst offender. The NA boxes for the Zero games were hardly the point across in the same vein as X7 and But no, the European version of Zero 3 tries picture of Zero next to Omega on the solid, the characters....they didn't come close. Like who in the hell thought this was okay?! Zero's eyes are facing totally different no lighting, no detail, no effort, and at please remove these pieces of shit from the least, make it the American version. That is all, just wanted to bring this to Let us actually get to the game now. Zero 2 ended with the Dark Elf free to roam just lost Elpizo, X's original body is gone, the mother elf to become the dark elf and because of that, seems to be back with the to cause some chaos. So needless to say, everything is stacked of Zero 3, and the odds aren't getting any Zero 3 opens with a recap stating all that The story itself starts in the middle of the a crash site. The soldiers are not as worried because apparently, a renewable energy source that caused Copy the resistance to form. However, the neo arcadians have yet to respond to be more than they thought as Neo Arcadians Leviathan getting their asses kicked by whatever in to see what it is. This giant abomination is, Omega. The threat that the new villain, Dr. Weil the dark elf going away in Zero 2. Speaking of which, we are finally introduced elf turning evil, long banished from Neo Arcadia I don't have anything to say about him just Copy X...complete with a stutter. Of course, the Guardians let Copy X take reign but since Harpuia has been the one leading grown to think for himself more and is not for a good reason. However Copy X accepts Weil with open arms So now, both Neo Arcadia and The Resistance elf before the other side does. Things get interesting at precisely this point. Zero finds the baby elves, I swear everytime Anyway, Dr. Weil is with the baby elves, and them. In the previous video, I gave the baby elves my perspective quite a bit. In Zero 2, X told Zero that the baby elves to help them reunite with their mother. It sounds evil, but Zero 3 shows just how me feel bad for them as Dr. Weil manipulates he hurt the mother elf back in between the away when her power went out of control, again, Dr. Weil also forces the very young and impressionable horrible every time I see it since obviously After several missions trying, nobody can the signal, but the only way to get to it, the dark elf escaped to! Harpuia steps up and says the goal of Neo and that this is a senseless slaughter, to they launch the missile. Zero fails to stop it as Omega finds the Dark The Baby elves rejoice now that they have to absorb the power of the Dark Elf, making full power to inflict their "justice". Harpuia is disgusted by how many of its own and fights against Omega. A futile effort given Omega's current power. Harpuia is so beaten up after this that Zero for repairs. Suddenly, Copy X and Dr. Weil make a surprise will be spared if Ciel hands over the new have just done, she rightfully doesn't believe Elpizo was right back in Zero 2 when he believed energy source by force, and the only way to Action that Zero takes as he makes his way Once again, the story really ramps up at this Copy X again doesn't have the power to destroy Copy X doesn't care and tries to go to his he implodes from within. Remember, Weil is the one who rebuilt Copy The real X suspects that Weil pinned a kill ass. X's supsision is confirmed, since Weil wasn't and yet seconds after destroying Copy X, Weil their beloved leader, X has been slain by and that X declared in the event of his death, Oh my god. He planned this from the very beginning. I didn't mention this in Zero 2, but it didn't know that Zero killed Copy X at the that info. So now, in their minds their leader has only gained Copy X's favor by really picking Omega at his fingertips, meanwhile, Harpuia All in an effort to now lead Neo Arcadia as HIS fingertips, as well as the baby elves You guys can see this already, right? For a Mega Man game, this is a very in depth of my seat to see this climax go down. You should be too, because now comes the time In the following missions, Zero uncovers a it seems on the outside, on the inside, we there are countless amounts of them, and guess Weil...whatever baby elves go loose will use dark elf for them, so Weil could power up Omega. Next, In a sunken library, Zero learns about the elf of. The Elf wars was the end of the maverick wars at bay since the mother elf was designed to back to normal, but this was the thing Weil rogue. Back to Omega though, now that Weil has the all reploids on a mass scale, including the she is a human, X since he is a cyber elf here, he wouldn't be controlled since he and Zero, he is also not a reploid since he So with the whole base out for Zero and Ciel, what, X comes back to save the day! Using his powers, he protects everyone in took up a lot of his energy, and Omega would of world to be saved. Which means, it is time for the castle stages. Zero destroys the baby elves once and for leaving Zero to battle Omega at full power. In Omega's second form, he is giant monster it is revealed that the base that was just found Zero back in Zero 1, and this is where In the rubble...Zero emerges? Yeah, Dr. Weil reveals the truth, Omega is How? Well it is revealed that the Zero body from the midst of the elf wars, hence why he was Some may be wondering why Omega Zero looks the X2 onward Zero design, and while that since Zero 1, this is an artstyle change, Anyway To finish off the war, a replica of made and this is the Zero that was put in character. Omega Zero as he is called, is Dr. Wily's in the flashback from X4 that had the maverick Sigma attempted to awaken in X5, that we prevented This adds credence to the idea that X6's my only issue with that in my X6 video, guys, so, nor did the game explain why that was, X8, XCM, and the backstory from these games. Weil mocks our Zero for just being a copy, X says that while he knew the truth about to tell Zero this throughout the game, but doesn't matter which body it is, Dr. Wily chose to be X's friend post Sigma battle, wars, and since those were his own thoughts, body it is. The heart of X's best friend Zero is standing have to destroy Omega Zero for good! Harpuia, Fefnir, and Leviathan, all patched before he regains full power. Weil made the mistake of escaping the scene Omega as X and Zero destroy him, releasing back to her original state as the mother elf! After a flash of white, we have quite the can easily remember, I said X used a lot of his body was destroyed in Zero 2, and so he of his energy is spent, and this is unfortunately, Proud of him for choosing his own path and weil and so on. Telling Zero that he trusts in him to finish will not be there to attend. I have been saying this since my X1 review, throughout the X and Zero games to be very heart warming, if a little sad, goodbye. When Zero regains consciousness, he is at by the Mother Elf who thanks Zero for stopping Free from all evil forces, the mother elf Zero himself thanks Ciel, Cerveau and the dark hour, reaffirming what X told him earlier. It doesn't matter what body he has, he is and that is the path Zero chose all those Now, Zero and the resistance are ready for the final chapter of the Zero series, Mega Uhhhh....what the hell do I say? Well let's start with the obvious, this Easily, my favorite story told in the entire Some folks had been concerned I was going canon issues I took with the later X titles, terrible. Mega Man Zero 3 is certainly not my favorite think of several game stories right off the a comparison. On it's own merits, Mega Man Zero 3 is a fact alone makes it stand out from Classic and it's all over the place writing quality. Mega Man Zero 3 builds off of the stories some ques from the X series to craft a great we learn about what happened to the mavericks. As well as having stakes higher than we have Dr. Weil's evil nature in general establishing like X's talks with Zero throughout, character stand against Neo Arcadia when they won't at peacefully, character development for the have gone from hating Zero in Zero 1, gaining 2, and ending with them standing alongside truly a good way for them to go out, since The guardians will not appear in Mega Man They go off and do lord knows what after this. But at the center of this story is Zero coming all from the Maverick Wars, to the Elf Wars, Dr. Wily's Zero once and for all and cementing I mean this story has it all, I mean I know Zero 2, I have the most to say about this moments. But like I said, this is a story that really wait to talk about the conclusion in Zero The presentation of the story and game as Sprites are again the same as they have always looking quite varied in terms of colors and More images to tell the story, you name it. I mean, I don't have much to say when it the look of Zero 1, I thought it got better boss sprites looking even better than the In fact some locations return from Zero 1 than they did back then. Completing the package would be the amazing in the Zero series with diverse set of compositions soundtrack not being remotely held back by The soundtrack is appropriately melancholy For Endless Fight, and Sand Triangle being the game's best...but the highlights for cannonball that is just as epic as the story matches the emotions of the scene just as Mega Man Zero 3 plays just about the same Yeah, no joke everything is the same as before, with b, jump is a, dash with L, switch weapons second. So let us waste no time and talk about how Combat in Zero 3 is easily the best in the It gets a lot of focus throughout the game, a more of a hack and slash with platforming and the one thing a good action game needs more you play. So let us look at the weapons. We of course have the returning Z Buster and The star system has been removed! No longer must you pointlessly grind enemies swings. I mean, Zero 2 greatly streamlined this, but Zero 2 and made the intro a lot less fun to Zero 3 is not concerned with wasting your review. This is a beefy, challenging game for all So yes, your Z Saber and Z Buster are at full could be game breaking, but is not at the of upgrades to get by the end. The Shield Boomerang is also back, with the have been developing these rod weapons as The Triple Rod was...okay. When fully powered it did serve as a good it up with the star system, but you could it would be weaker than the Z Saber and Buster The Triple Rod's bounce attack was also enemy in order to get off the ground, and front of you, meaning attacking with the other The Chain Rod in Zero 2 was a massive improvement to swing around, but it was kind of janky to get it down. But it was the kind of practice that didn't awkward, but still competent gameplay. Now that I have hyped it up so much, let's it a great weapon diagonally, but it also is still a viable option when enemies are But I just love using the charge shot to push into one another, it is so inherently satisfying. The best part, no doubt about it, is by charging energy to propel himself really high in the But I can discuss that with more when the Cyber Elves are back of course, and these In previous games, you found the elves themselves to download the three you wanted, and for grinding. I never thought about just how restricted game again for review purposes. In the stages, you will find top secret discs, These discs are either interesting trivia But more often than not, here is where you This menu might seem like it is a bit confusing, Satellite 1 and Satellite 2 are a list of nurse category that will drop small units the other one I use being from the animal with you. Some even take the place of the form powers slash. You can infinitely mix and match the satellite Again, not three at a time, any two, at any Oh yeah, it is real in gameplay switching! Don't like the elf you picked, flip over This doesn't just go for the satellite elves Some still require E Crystals, like the sub you know which one you want to power up, get like Zero 2, the number is very easy to get, midst of the gameplay, meaning that I care do it whenever I want, as opposed to thing The elves in the other crystal categories Z Saber to destroy enemies bullets like you power, you name it. If the promise of being so powerful wasn't thanks to Omega being awakened in the story, in all stages, this is a place where all who elves are to roam free. You guessed it, in this area, all of your become a God. This can not be used during mini bosses, and It is a short term power trip, correct me affects your rank, but it is a good motivator discs, because when you do, you don't need default and YOU put in the work to earn it. The portal also takes away the detail from green, and with areas that look this good, But back to rankings, why do you want that Well the returning EX Skills are here to whip Once again, defeating a boss with rank A or four weapons. I didn't even come close to unlocking them Like the gas bomb Z buster charge shot, the favorite. The 100 Slash that is given to recoil rod While yes, there are few elves granting you you need to master the stages, take no damage The elemental chips are also back to experiment to just three. These modify Zero's body like allowing you make it so that Zero doesn't react to crumbling standing still like X3 or Mega Man and Bass. Charging faster, and when combined with the do some real damage. Automatic charging of weapons, and my favorite jump, and when you combine this with the recoil far you go, this game is so much fun with to be believed. So, if you can become so powerful? How is this game not a complete push over? I am glad you asked. Mega Man Zero 3 has some of the best level I can only think of two instances of screen But back to the good stuff. If your timing skills are not good, Zero 3 The first stage in the first set, the fire to jump on falling into the lava really quickly, to survive this. I mean, all the information is clearly indicated problem. This game puts Zero in a wide variety of situations, we fly through the arctic. Or the sunken library where you need to slow but then need to learn the map of the final logs on Omega, and Dr Weil are hidden in the Sounds tedious, but it is very easy to do, The only two stages that are a bit lame are deaths than I can count. Second being this elevator stage that makes Since combat is so diverse in this game, I over their heads, push them off the ledge, can see why it wouldn't be fun for most. Anyway, this game really loves changing it the quick sand in the sand stage, then bam, When it comes to finding some of these secret Like thinking outside the box when there is a disc is under there. You can burn all the green in the run down But nothing compares to finding the two physical Get this, you need to dash off this cliff, this enemies head when he reveals himself, and get the sub tank. Or the other one, where you press the switch time to reach the other side, but now it is What do you do? Bust out the recoil rod, and bounce over on That is not the only use of the rod, early crates can be moved by a charged rod, and you push it, unsure of what it does, but little platform later in the stage to reach a secret Ahhh...I love this game. Another great thing is how this game is not After the intro stage, we have four stages the rocket, which fails and allows Omega to THEY REALLY SHORTENED THIS GAME UP! But no, next comes another middle stage where filled with all the elements I have already What can I say, this is how it is done! We aren't conforming to the Mega Man norm, or X1 did all those years ago. The game can totally afford to have those since they are all bring backs from Zero 1 for the Zero 1 bring back especially, you the setpieces. If I can give you one piece of advice, start His boss is the easiest of the bunch, and I say this because, unfortunately, I don't The patterns feel way too sporadic for the defense to deal with it which makes getting annoying since you may have mastered the level because you died on the boss. Once you power up, you really wreck all of was no middle point. By contrast, I really like the bring back that really flesh them out, you even have who died in Zero 1, since like I setup earlier, live here physically, and he is no exception. A good set of brought back bosses can't for the Zero series standard, but as you can out of the stages and combat, so therefore mark against this game, but as the X retrospective failure to find a balance in boss design. I don't have much to say on the castle stages, is really my least favorite part of Zero 3. In the story, it was excellent. It is three phases, the music is great, but The first phase against Omega is mostly the more complicated, but you are so much more The Second phase barely touched me even though With the final phase being the biggest let health bars, but I dealt with him in no time to allow me to be this powerful, design the up my save file from 2015 on the Wii U, and how low power I was. Honestly, since the final boss was so quick, it actually is because of how fast it came. But can I just listen to this official final Once you beat the game, Hard Mode is unlocked try this, but in my opinion, it just makes weapon turns into X's saber from X6. Having said all that...how do I feel about This game...is one of my favorite games of When starting up again, I wasn't sure how I got my ass kicked by the first boss I picked, I just needed an edge, and that edge came just how good Mega Man Zero 3 is. From the moment I grabbed that subtank, it The game from the get go ditches a lot of two games, and crafts a game that is endlessly If Mega Man Zero 1 is a revolving door of and weapon farming, then Zero 3 is a revolving You get your ass kicked by mini bosses and how much more powerful you will be later, The EX skills can be obtained, but only if more. The real time cyber elf switching added a yet, the story was not only just as good as The soundtrack was very well done, the graphics the boss design is lacking. The level design, the secrets, the massively what is my favorite Mega Man game. I have played X1 - X4 more times than all when I see it. There are two stages I don't like, but this side quests that aren't fleshed out, it Nor does it have a gimmick stage to offset It also, like I said, leaves all the bullshit game. If you haven't played this, I strongly recommend Now anyway, that just about covers Zero 3. We are halfway through the marathon, and so 4, for the game boy advance. How well does the series climax stack up? Find out next time. Thank you all for watching and take care.