Ava, you are This scorpion The most poisonous venom in our jungle As long as this poison needle dipped in venom You will die within seconds of being shot. Use it to deal with the devils The best choice Good boy I wish my saliva was this poisonous I'll just spit on those bastards to death Lower your heads and be quiet. Be quiet Wait, I'll call for help. Okay, go ahead. Huba Keep your head down Liu Ruyan Tong Lingling You two go around. The devils will leave after a while. You two go and rescue the folks. yes Well done Ava I'll go to the village first. Huba went to the village entrance The Japanese are likely to come in from the entrance of the village. Okay, go ahead. Be careful on the road. Come with me to rescue the villagers. yes A Bao, A Bao, are you okay? My benefactor sister will untie the rope for you now Thank you, sister. Thank you. Captain Xue, I'm worried that there are still some Japanese around. Jintai and Huba are still at the entrance of the village I want to see if they are in danger. Okay, go ahead. Be safe. good Come on, hurry up Help me untie Come and mine I'll untie it for you Walk Jintae, I'm so glad you're okay. How's Huba? He has been killed Then let's go tell Captain Xue right away. Captain Xue Captain Xue Ava The Japs came and I saw that woman The woman who killed my father Don't let them run away. Chase Bring back all the people in the village. Don't let any one go Over there Jintae, please go! The Japs are chasing us. Go, go, go hurry up Don't move, don't move, don't move Be honest Squat down honestly. Don't. beat Eagle One calls headquarters Eagle One calls headquarters Please answer if you hear me. Please answer if you hear me. Damn, I'm out of bullets. I only have one hair left. Leng Yue saw the gasoline barrel. Get rid of it Walk Walk The radio was already fixed. I don't know why there is no signal again. Just leave it alone and leave here first Beware of grenades Lingling Grenade Walk Xue Min Is everyone okay? fine I'm afraid the devils will come again soon. Everyone, please evacuate immediately. withdraw Walk Quick quick quick We are in this bamboo forest again. This is us and Miko Yagyu The place where we first met This is also where we were defeated by her for the first time. How come I don't know When was it defeated? You were a benefactor in the village at that time. How would you know? This time we must let Yagyu Miko Defeated by us Ouyang Lan You have to make good use of your bombs this time Don't worry, we're all ready. We can finally have a big fight Go down Xiaobao Xiaobao Not afraid not afraid I have an amulet given to me by my benefactor sister I won't die Don't do it, baby No preparation don't want shot beat Run, run, run! Hide quickly and run to the hills Run up the mountain Hurry up! Hurry up! Hide in the woods quickly Kim Tae-ge Kim Tae-ge is in danger Leng Yue protects Jin Tai Run fast! Run faster, run faster Run fast Mom, Mom Mom Operation Cold Moon Mom Mom Mom Leng Yue let go of everyone's hands quick quick Mom, I was wrong Thank you. Thank you. Go Go Go good Okay soon Everyone, hurry back to the village. Mom, don't worry. I will make you proud of your son. I killed you bastards. Artest Artest Kim Tae-ge Artest Kim Tae-jo Artest King Artest King Artest King Jintai Jin Taige Atai Artest Jin Tai, please don't scare me Brother Jin, please don't die. You can't die. You can't die Ava forgive me I forgive you I forgive you Artest Artest Someone come quickly Yoshiko Yagyu Today I want to make this bamboo forest Become your burial place Xue Min, you are a defeated general Wait till I catch you and chop you up Don't mess around, be careful of fraud They're chasing me there. Is chasing Prepare one two three Sister, let's go quickly. To withdraw is to leave Miko, are you okay? Come Xue Min, I won't let you go I'm going to kill you Miko, you're hurt. Don't chase me anymore. Nomura you coward You guys follow me. yes Xue Min Do you know why I like war? Because it's not the last minute You never know who will win You are absolutely right. The charm of war lies in its ever-changing nature Do you know what it means to survive in a desperate situation? This is shooting Oh no, there's a bomb Yoshiko Yoshiko Meizi, I'll take you back now. Visitors Be alert yes Boss, that was really exciting. Isn't it scary? I see this Yagyu Miko Now you can finally stop being so arrogant, right? The boss must be Brother Liu Cheng's signal flare. He must have rescued all the villagers. Let's go find them. good Rest in peace, Dad. Kim Tae-hyung's mother is here to see you Please bless Jin Taige to be safe Dad, look This was carved for me by Jin Taige Do you think it looks like Dad, I will go with Jin Taige Let's protect our village together We are the warriors of the village. Patriarch, please go with peace of mind The Japs have evacuated the jungle The village is safe Women's team standing at attention salute Although Yagyu Miko was defeated But the crisis is still not over The Japanese army's claws have already reached Nanzhou City Boss Come Okay, stop drinking. You just drank yourself to death. I won't let you do anything stupid. The elders are riding on our heads. Blow up the boats You can swallow this breath, but I can't I'm keeping my troops still Because I think it's not that simple. It's not that I'm scared. We are fighting for territory with the Evergreen Gang Not one or two years. Now suddenly become so arrogant I've become so brave I suspect someone is behind them. Boss, you mean Very likely Come on up Get up, let's go back. Come on, let's go. Why is this beautiful lady drinking here alone? Is there something unhappy? Talk to my brother Don't mention the little beauty. You look pretty young. This touch can bring out water. Just playing with my brother Brother will buy you rouge Who is it? Listen carefully All the players line up in the fully loaded playground Until Liu Ruyan returns to the team Report my objection Why did Liu Ruyan make the mistake alone? We have to be punished. Yes, one person violates the rules and everyone is punished Including me Meet at the playground in five minutes. Dong Ge I'm sorry, Brother Dong I didn't know you were here I'm sorry for your interest, Brother Dong Drink less alcohol good Boss Are you there? Only him and Wu Er, no one else Are you ready, brothers? Today I will make sure Dong Tiancheng is dead without a burial place Walk Bartender Who is that person? That's Brother Dong, the Salt Gang boss Dong Tiancheng Fill up the wine Okay I have to thank him too. Girl, go! You are the boss of the Salt Gang What nonsense are you talking about? Go away! Go fast Give me all The boss said that whoever kills Dong Tiancheng today I'll give you ten gold bars. Wu Er covered me Wu Er covered me good stand up Get up and tell me who sent you. Dong Gang Master, please spare my life. I told you to forgive me This is what Boss Zhang meant. I'm just a random eater Are you not hurt, girl? Pay for my high heels How do you talk? Are your shoes more valuable or your life? Don't want to live anymore? This girl I have a car. Do you want me to give you a ride? No need Why should I tell you where I live? It's rare for me, Liu Ruyan, to come out for a drink I just ran into a bunch of you stinky men fighting and killing each other People in the underworld, things in the underworld Let the girl laugh Boss, Boss, Boss Why are there only a bunch of gluttons here? Almost got killed by the Evergreen Gang A bunch of gluttons alright It's not your fault what happened today It happened suddenly Even I didn't expect Boss, we found The Evergreen Gang is too bold Dare to steal my salt gang's business At which port do they unload? Longmen Warehouse Wu Er Lao Da Bring all the brothers to spread my words The Evergreen Gang will kill without mercy Brothers, go etc. Mr. Dong can take me with you Go and see what's going on among you people in the underworld? Unexpectedly, Miss Liu Still a person who likes to watch the fun Walk Action Lectures Hello There is a bomb in the warehouse at Chengnan Wharf bomb Separate inspection What do you want? Then let's take a gamble. What if I lose? I will tell you how to defuse the bomb. What if Mr. Dong loses? Then let's continue to discuss cooperation otherwise All your warehouses will Easy to say How to bet This sulfuric acid bomb is so strange. No explosive devices were found around. What's going on? I think there is only one possibility This detonator should be the one who installed the bomb Hidden somewhere else in the warehouse Boss, how do we find such a big warehouse? Don't be discouraged, look carefully again Sister can't find the detonator What the hell are you doing? We don't know when the bomb will go off. It is very likely that we will be blown to death in the next second Otherwise, let's go first. Liu Ruyan, please don't shake the morale of the troops Everyone, hurry up and continue searching. There is a situation Take the stuff off the top Tell me how to bet It's not easy to meet Boss Dong Why don't we try something new today? Fresh What are you going to do? Don't be nervous Just two hard-boiled eggs Don't be so nervous Whoever peels the egg cleanly wins. How about it Mr. Nomura is very good at kung fu Don't move. There's something wrong with this guy. Lingling, what is he talking about? I can't hear clearly what you said. bomb Give way It's here This is the detonator of the sulfuric acid bomb. Which beast did this? Let me find him I'll make a hole in his head. How long will it take? The faster the flashing frequency, the The shorter the remaining time So judging from the current flashing frequency There should be a little while left. The boss demolished it? Prepare bomb disposal tools yes This must be what I've heard before. Cluster bomb We have to defuse this bomb. To prevent the sulfuric acid bomb from detonating Now I have to defuse this bomb. Easy to disassemble Boss Dong, time is running out. Only a few minutes left. You better hurry up Otherwise, it will be too late if the bomb explodes. Sorry, Boss Dong, you lost. I didn't realize Mr. Nomura is still impatient. Wonderful! It's really wonderful! Dong Gang Leader is worthy of being the leader of a gang No, it's flashing faster and faster. Ouyang Lan quickly removed the wires Now I don't know which one to remove. Others quickly evacuated the warehouse What are you still standing there for? Leng Yue takes them away yes You lost, Wu Er went to make a phone call yes Tell me how to defuse a bomb Dong Gangzhu We can only say that it was a draw. How can you say I lost? If Mr. Nomura is right, There's a shell at the bottom of your egg. alright You should tell me how to defuse the bomb. Find the detonator inside the body That detonator has a lot of wires. Just cut off the yellow one. Remember to cut off the yellow one. Hello What does the boss say? Tell them not to cut the yellow one Remember not to cut the yellow one Don't cut the yellow one. Don't worry, someone will take you out soon. Let's go Let's go Let's go, everyone. Come come come The boss's women's team has defused the bomb. very good Mr. Nomura Let's stop here for today. see a visitor out Goodbye stop Boss, you can't let him go. Didn't you hear clearly what I said? see a visitor out Boss, I mean We can arrest him first. Let the devil agree Our Salt Business in North China Our Salt Business in North China Boss Didn't we want to do this a long time ago? Now is the When negotiating terms with the devils You really think so yes Anyone out there have the same idea? you I'll let you remember it forever The pain of losing a country is greater than the pain of losing a finger Who dares to mention cooperating with the Japanese again? That's not the finger that's broken. But the brain Remember yes Get him to the hospital as soon as possible. yes Wu Er, do you know I'm not just your boss. He's still your real father. You see it, it's out Are you alright? What is going on? Move back to your shoulders, move back, get out of the way Get out of the way Back off, back off, back off Back I lost the bet So that Boss Dong Did not agree to our request waste Just jump off from here. Come down to me Since Dong Tiancheng doesn't want to cooperate with us Then go to hell Go find me a chick. Who are you? What do you want to do? Mr. Wu, don't be nervous. I just want to talk to you Talk to me about what? I said you are so brave A Japanese woman Dare to attack in our salt gang's territory All of China is in the hands of our Japanese Imperial Army What's more, a small salt gang The brothers of the Changqing Gang are much smarter than you. What is the Evergreen Gang? Compared to our Yan Gang, they are nothing. Mr. Wu, as far as I know You are willing to expand your business in the north So I think you won't take this piece of fat Let the Evergreen Gang eat it. What do you mean Very simple As long as you are willing to cooperate with us Cooperate with us Open up the salt industry channel in the Dujiang River Basin Then we will put all this Leave it to you to take care of it You salt gang Will also be our best partner No one can intervene Including Dong Tiancheng and the Changqing Gang This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Don't miss it No, even though my boss treats me like this But I can't break his promise. Unauthorized cooperation with you You guys better go. You are willing I have been under the command of Boss Dong all my life. Be the second Be the second What do you do? Food delivery Be quick, our boss is treating us today Don't delay, go out the back door No wonder everyone wants to be the boss. Captain Xue, everyone, please come to my humble home. Make my humble home shine Where, where, I have long heard of the name of Boss Dong I am honored to meet Xue Min today. OK Li Ma looks at tea yes Coming, coming What do you do? I'm delivering food. Go fast Tiancheng wanted to thank Captain Xue for his help. I specially prepared some light tea and wine to express my gratitude. You're welcome, Mr. Dong. I'll make you mad What are you two whispering about? They are both praising you. You're so impressive. I was able to receive praise from two beauties. Dong is very useful What for? Food delivery What dishes to send I didn't expect Miss Liu to be a heroine in the army. No wonder the day we first met Stay calm in times of crisis It's enough to make all the men five feet tall ashamed Thank you for your praise, Mr. Dong Captain Xue's fight in the underworld Dong was ashamed Garrison troops come to the rescue Dong is very grateful. It is our duty to protect the environment and the people Mr. Dong, you are too polite. Then please ask Captain Xue to represent Dong Tell your minister If you have any instructions in the future All my brothers in the Salt Gang are at your service. Mr. Dong is indeed a quick-witted person. Then I'll tell the truth. Bomb in the dock warehouse It's not like what Mr. Dong said. It's a fight between rivers and lakes It's the behavior of the devils The Japs I, Dong Tiancheng, am just a The common people who sell salt by boat Why is this little devil picking on me? Mr. Dong Although we have just entered Nanzhou But Mr. Dong, you and your salt gang Already famous The devil wants to control The economic lifeline of the Dujiang River Basin Mr. Dong, you are the first choice. Captain Xue is joking. We just want to remind Mr. Dong The devils will definitely harass you this time. And they will use extraordinary means To treat you To treat you Everyone Hasn't this little devil attacked us yet? Not to mention that your army is still here in Nanzhou There are tens of thousands of brothers in my salt gang alone. I dare not say it is a den of dragons and tigers Not just anyone. A place where you can run wild I'm sorry, Boss Dong I want to go to the convenience Yes, yes, Mama Li yes Take this beautiful lady to the bathroom Okay, this way please What do you do? Boss Dong, Boss Dong is not well Boss Dong, something bad has happened. Boss Dong No, no, no Why is the women's team here? Yoshiko Yagyu Too courageous. I know this sulfuric acid bomb It's not something ordinary people do. I'm sorry, Mr. Dong. I came to visit you without saying hello. May I ask who you are? I am Miko Yagyu It's our first meeting, please take care of me. A Japanese woman I didn't expect Captain Xue to be here too The girls' team is my new friend It's a good opportunity for everyone to meet each other. Boss Dong's house is so beautiful There are six houses in this row. There are more over there. Come inside please careful Get out of here quickly. I will protect you and you follow me. quick Hiding Go fast So to speak This is the gift you brought me. My first visit There has to be some expression. No, no, no, no, no Boss The whole villa was surrounded by the Evergreen Gang The phone lines were also cut. We can't get in touch with the outside world. The people of the Changqing Gang cooperated with them from inside and outside Now there are only two of us left Everyone else is dead. roll What is Liuliu? Yoshiko Yagyu It seems that I, Dong Tiancheng, will have a hard time surviving today. Out of here Tell me what's your business? What do you want to do? Brother Liu, when did you join the Military Control Commission? After graduating from West Point I have been serving in the military Why did the webmaster think of asking these questions today? Just chat, just chat Please come today. Mainly for you to taste The imported black tea from England given to me by someone else This black tea is very good. After drinking Makes people feel happy Warm feeling Clear mind and bright vision The webmaster is not smart enough Able to sit in the stationmaster's seat Not an ordinary person. Just a monk ringing the bell Brother Liu, I heard You worked in a newspaper before. The external identity is a reporter of China Daily The once famous Hongji The webmaster is overrated. Able to do one thing at a time The skill is not shallow Webmaster I don't think you're praising me. It's a compliment. It's a compliment. How come it's not a compliment? I wish I had a talent like Brother Liu at Nanzhou Station. As a webmaster, I also have a proud face. Report Come in Report Didn't I say Please don't interrupt my chat with Section Chief Liu. Finally got some time explain The Evergreen Gang is out in full force today It seems like something big happened broken They were going after Dong Tiancheng Xue Min and the others are still in Dong Tiancheng's villa Adjutant Zhao Assemble a group of people and wait for me downstairs immediately Let's go to Dong Tiancheng's villa quickly. yes Section Chief Liu, please stop interfering in the affairs of the Salt Gang My subordinate Nomura I lost to you at your casino the other day. I feel very embarrassed I came here today to play a bet with you. I came here today to play a bet with you. If I win Your salt gang must behave well. Cooperate with us Japanese What if you lose? Then I'll let you all live. Including this person What's going on Mr. Dong I didn't expect you to have such loyal subordinates. I tried to persuade him for a long time but he didn't betray you It's really rare How long will it take to get to Boss Dong's villa? It's almost at the next intersection. All lie down Section Chief The Evergreen Gang Why do you always pick on us? They want to stop us from rescuing Boss Dong It seems that Xue Min and the others are in trouble. You hurry up and take the wounded back for treatment You two follow me. yes Boss, leave me alone and fight with them. Boss, let's fight them. Yeah, fight with them. Okay, I promise you. How to bet How to bet Boss Dong She is not eligible to gamble Blackmail you into cooperating with her Even if the Japanese troops are now heavily deployed Even if the Japanese troops are now heavily deployed But Nanzhou City is still under the rule of the Kuomintang This woman can't be allowed to run wild here. Yoshiko Yagyu You should tell Boss Dong about it. In the jungle How did you lose to our girls' team? Captain Xue doesn't need to be angry with this person. I'll take a gamble with her. If you really lose the bet I will hand over the Salt Gang to you. Very refreshing Get a deck of cards These four cards represent your female guests This card is yours, Mr. Dong This card is his. What's the meaning These six cards represent your six lives. Get another deck of cards. You have to remember The six cards in your hand Position in this deck If you remember it wrong, you lose. The consequence of losing is This is what happens if you get dealt the wrong cards Yoshiko Yagyu We Chinese won't Killed in vain by you little devils Mr. Dong, let's get started. The third card from the right It is the Queen of Clubs Mr. Dong, please continue to guess. Where is the Queen of Spades? Who Don't move I wonder if Boss Dong and the others are in there? have no idea If you don't tell me, you will end up like them. explain They are all in the hall. There are a few women Ladies, who is your leader? A Japanese woman You're lucky, kid. Mr. Dong is indeed the boss of the Salt Gang He was able to tell the positions of the four cards so easily. Now there is only the Queen of Hearts left. There's also the Little Ghost card. The eighteenth one from the left is Little Ghost 9 slow It should be Nineteenth Mr. Dong, are you sure? Sure Now only the captain of the women's team is left. Now there is only one Queen of Hearts left. Counting from the right The last card is the Queen of Hearts Sorry Mr. Dong, you lost. I hope you can keep your promise. Cooperate with us Japanese I'm going to kill the Queen of Hearts now No matter how many guns are pointed at me I can guarantee it As soon as you pull the trigger You're already a dead person. Then you try it. If you have the patience, give it a try. I have another bomb on me At worst, I'll just fight with you bastards. perish together I said Miss Liu Sheng, you want to kill Captain Xue There's no need to go through so much trouble. Besides, you are such a despicable person. It wouldn't sound good if it got out. Boss Dong, what do you mean? I, Dong Tiancheng, have been hanging around in the docks since I was a teenager. What scene have you never seen? You are still a little naive to cheat in front of me The last one I mentioned is the Queen of Hearts But I'm not talking about this one on the table. Rather It's you This one in the sleeve You've been hiding this card from the beginning. There are only fifty-three cards on the table from beginning to end Boss Dong How should the casino handle this? Chop her up and feed her to the dog I am willing to accept the loss I kept my promise and let you go. Wu Er, Wu Er, are you okay? fine What a pity, Mr. Dong You missed an opportunity to cooperate with us Okay, Ms. Yagyu. Now you can get out of my room. Mr. Dong, this world is full of variables. Do you believe it? Variables What variables? you Don't move Wu Er, you are crazy, you are pointing a gun at me I'm not crazy I am more awake now than ever You old bastard You've been the boss for too long. Your brain is broken. Now it's my turn to be the boss So you and the devil You've been acting for me all along. Report to the warehouse that it's ready Holding yes There's no point saying anything now Dong Tiancheng Now is the time for the Salt Gang to change its dynasty Xue Min, go! Go fast Quick More powerful than I thought. Where are the people? You guys go outside and take a look. yes broken I know where they went. Follow me. Walk Fast Chase Walk Where are you taking us? Why don't you take us away? It's dangerous to go out now. I have a hidden place here Hidden Place What's this How come it's like a bank safe? This is no ordinary house. I call it a safe house. The walls are poured concrete Hide inside People from outside can't get in. This is what I prepared. To prevent An emergency like today Boss Dong is right. Now everyone outside is Yagyu Miko's people It's too dangerous for us to go out and fight hard You go in and hide first. You guys go ahead, I'll cover you. Good go Liu Cheng, hurry up! Walk This is troublesome. This safe house It is made of half-meter thick concrete. Even this door is made of pure steel Useless Miss Miko Bullets can't penetrate it. Even ordinary explosives can't blow it up. Then use more powerful explosives Just one door Just want to stop me, Yagyu Miko Don't worry I will definitely today Let you become the leader of the Salt Gang Loading explosives Hold on and stop being such a bitch. I'm a woman, I can't be gentle Listen to me, people inside Dong Tiancheng Don't think you can rest easy in there. I'm rigged with explosives on your door I will blow your house into powder. Don't be too proud too soon Don't wait until then for me to catch you in a trap. No, it's a turtle in a jar If you are smart You should announce it immediately Wu Er is the new leader of the Salt Gang I can also ensure that you will have no worries about food and clothing for the rest of your life. Officer Liu Sheng, the bomb is set good I'll give you a minute to think about it. Listen carefully, Miko Yagyu Stop dreaming. I will never give in to the devils even if I die. Okay, you want to be a hero, right? Starter The time for the Liu Shengchang bomb has been adjusted It will explode in ten minutes. good Goodbye Mr. Dong Walk Boss, can you open the door now? The devils should leave. It can't be that simple The Japs must have installed explosives on the door frame As soon as we open the door The bomb will explode immediately Unless someone defuses the bomb outside the door. Come Damn it Boss Boss Master, Master master Sir, where are they? Where did you go? Where did you go? Sir, that's right. So what do we do now? Are you just going to sit there and wait to be blown up? Liu Ruyan, stop talking nonsense. Captain Xue Captain Xue had prepared some light tea and wine. I want to thank all the heroes. I didn't expect you to be surprised. This is also considered strong tea and thick wine The taste is also very good Captain Xue is so optimistic and generous Dong admires Don't worry, there will always be a way. The women's team has always been able to turn danger into safety Survive in desperate situation master Boss, are you in there? Is the boss in there? Lingling, is that you? It's me, it's me Thanks to Li Ma for telling me There's a safe house here. Otherwise I wouldn't be able to find you. Great, I'll open the door for you now. Lingling, listen to me. This door cannot be opened from the outside. Check if there is a bomb on the door. There is indeed a bomb Seven minutes to explosion. Lingling is among us now Only you can defuse this bomb. Can I do it? Can I do it? You are our team member, a warrior. Of course you can Ouyang Lan, you guide Tong Lingling to defuse the bomb yes Lingling, tell me the structure of the bomb I'll tell you how to disassemble it There are four wires around the bomb. The detonator is in the center of the bomb. Aunt Li helped me hold the microphone to communicate with the inside I'll defuse the bomb. good Sister Lanlan, I'm ready Lingling, don't worry, keep your breath steady. Use tweezers to remove the timer detonator. There are three wires connected to the detonator. Three wires connected to a small circuit board Three wires on circuit board right This should be the simplest circuit detonator. To Lingling This is the simplest detonator. You cut the middle wire first. Then pull out the middle detonator. That's it good Cut off the middle one Cut off the middle one The middle one The middle one The middle one I cut it off. I cut it off. Great! She removed the detonator. Now all that's left is to remove the detonator. These little devils underestimated us. This detonating device I can take it apart with my eyes closed. Linglingling, what happened? Lingling Speech Lingling Lingling Speech Lingling How's Mama Li? Don't be afraid. It's okay. Boss, I'm fine. Lingling, please be careful. I'm going to start removing the detonator now. Lingling, don't be anxious. Although the detonator has been removed But removing the detonator is the most dangerous step. If you are not careful, it will cause an explosion So you have to be careful, you hear? I know Let's go! The Chinese troops in the city are coming. Why are you here? Aren't you in the warehouse? I'm afraid something unexpected will happen to you. That's why Who told you to leave? Did I order you to leave? How long until the explosion? Ten seconds left Why hasn't it exploded yet? Strange, several seconds have passed. It's broken. They must have defused the bomb. Let me rush in Yes Yes This this Congratulations, Mr. Wu It should be Wu Gangzhu Uncle Wu, Uncle Wu, are you okay? You all listen to me. Dong Tiancheng has been blown to ashes by me Start now I am the leader of the Salt Gang Come meet the boss! Gang Boss Gang Boss Call the gang leader! Gang Leader Call Gang Leader And you Gang Boss Don't worry. I won't treat you badly. No one has come after me for such a long time. They probably thought we were all killed. But we can't take it lightly now. Boss, I still don't understand Didn't I defuse the bomb before? Why do we need Sister Lanlan to detonate it again? Only bombs explode Only Yagyu Miko would think We and Boss Dong have been killed in the explosion In this case We can buy time to fight back. Don't be too sad, Boss Dong. We will definitely help you clean up the door The Salt Gang has produced several people like Wu Er No surprise It's not easy to become a gang leader. But now they must all think you're dead He will definitely take over the boss's position It's only a matter of time before I give orders to the Salt Gang You guys shouldn't stay here for long. Must find a safe place I will tell you slowly Where can we go? I have a secret house in the country Even Wu Er doesn't know I think it should be safer there. In this case, Xue Min, you take Boss Dong and the others Go to the countryside to get out of the spotlight We must protect Mr. Dong's safety Do you know