- We tested blenders like that (laughs) it will (upbeat groovy music) The world of kitchen gear There are thousands of products competing for a place in your kitchen. - And they're in all different categories, at different prices, and It's all too easy to especially when you're - Today, we are going to of expensive kitchen gear. Some of it we think is others not so much. Lisa and I are here to help you avoid that dreaded buyer's remorse. - First up, Hannah. (upbeat groovy music continues) - First, I wanna talk specifically this one right here. But before we get into that, make sure to Like this it really helps out the channel. A couple years ago, we rounded up a slew of indoor pizza ovens And to be honest, the They were not good. Our solution for baking was a pizza stone or a pizza steel. We slightly prefer a conducts heat a little bit differently, and making a slightly more The downside is, to get great or steel, you'd need to Now, that's a long time. So, when Breville - [Will] Pizzaiolo. - Our producer, Will, speaks Italian; he wants everyone to know. But when Breville announced this, we were super excited, and This thing promises to reach 750 degree professional pizza oven temperatures, and to do so in 10 to 20 minutes. Also attention-grabbing: the price. This is $1,000. But this machine promises a lot, so we bought one and tested it. That's right - we bought one. We purchase all of our own products, and we'd never accept advertising. This is not an ad; remember that. Let's start with how it works. There are two coiled heating elements; one underneath the stone and And it has seven settings - thin and crispy, to wood fired. It also has a manual mode exactly what you want. To test this thing out, we held a two-week pizza and even our most were thoroughly impressed. This machine put out beautiful pizzas; thin, tender, with crispy crusts. We were really amazed at what this can do. By the end of testing, we all The oven heats up quickly and stays hot. It can cook some pizzas, like thin crust, in two to four minutes. It also stays relatively You know, you wouldn't but it does stay relatively cool. We also really like that the and downwards when you open the door, so it's safer and easier to reach. When you close the door, it The controls were super easy to use. Clear dials, easy to understand. Now let's get into the drawbacks. Obviously, price is a major one. This thing is expensive. Also, weight - it's about 30 a lot of counter space or You're also gonna expect some You'll see that here and on the door. And this is after only a couple uses. The peel is 11 inches. The stone is 12 inches. That means this can make so larger recipes you're It's gonna cook more on so if you want it to be even, you're gonna need to That's what we liked and Let's make some pizza. Look at that. Beautiful. It smells good. Could have taken it a little darker if that's your preference. Underneath, really beautiful. Lots of semolina on there, about it sticking to the peel, Toppings are cooked through. The tips of the onions which is just how I like them. This looks gorgeous. I can't wait to cut into it. Sounds crispy. Take this one up. Look at that. Gorgeous. So, should you spend or should you save? Let us know what you But as far as we're concerned, it's a &quot;yes&quot; for the Breville Pizzaiolo. If you have a thousand bucks it really delivered on what it promised. Now, if you don't have a thousand bucks and love pizza, don't and an hour-preheat in your oven can also get you Now, a new competitor just entered the market, the Ooni Volt. We are waiting for one to and we will be testing it Mm. It's legitimately very good. Next up, smart cocktail machines, which have been all the rage recently. We tested a whole bunch of models. We found they fell into two categories. First was smart scales that walk you through how to make a cocktail, and the second was similar to a Keurig or a Nespresso machine; that contain concentrated juices, bitters, and other flavorings that combine with water and liquor in the machine through a series of tubes The machine reads the barcode on top so it knows just what to do. You pop it in, close it, This is one of the Keurig-style This is Bartesian. We tested two of their models in addition to several, including the Bev by Black and Decker. And let me just cut right to the chase: do not buy one of these. You know, the best cocktails are made using a variety of ingredients, and these are not going to deliver that. You're limited to whatever they make and whatever they put inside And these are not cheap, and they were often out of We did, however, like Right here, we have our It will walk you through step by step. If you're looking to learn more this might be a good choice for you. And at a hundred bucks, than the pod-style models. We loved this machine. It was easy to use, easy had a good app that really held But in general, if you wanna we recommend just upgrading your bar gear. You know, we've got great shaker winners by Boston Shaker and Tovolo, all of the good gear. We'll link it down below so Just get yourself some new good gear. Forget about the machines. One of the most common questions I get as an equipment tester is: like the Vitamix here, worth it? Now, we have tested blenders We have winners in the in the mid-range category, And that's because not everyone But if you can, should you? This is our longtime winner here for the high-end category, This machine got its start and migrated over to home kitchens. There are just three features an on and off switch, a speed dial, and a switch that accesses While it's simple, there is little you What often separates the from the expensive Now, the Vitamix has but you will often find way past seven years, especially if you take good care of them. It has a powerful motor, The Blendtec, for example, we tested, we actually found to properly emulsify. Mayonnaise, soups made in there, were often extremely frothy. The Vitamix, on the of about 1,500 and it than those in the 2,500 wattage range, proving that power is not One thing that the Vitamix is create dense velvety blends, and that comes down to You'll notice it's taller and skinnier. This design allows the more towards the bottom of the jar. Once the jar gets wider, the ingredients have farther to travel, they're crashing around inside; that generates foamier results. So, this model here will not fit under a standard cabinet height. We also recommend the Vitamix A2500. The jar's a little bit it will fit nicely under there. Slightly frothier results but still super smooth and creamy. Noise is also a and I'm not gonna tell you but we definitely preferred models that were under 100 decibels. We measured with a decibel meter, and this model was much A note on cleaning: don't they can warp. And if you wanna make your just put a little bit of and run it on high for a minute. All right, so the Vitamix What you're really and we've even heard of from generation to generation. We do think the Vitamix is worth it. Now, here's Lisa with her picks. (upbeat groovy music) - First up on my list, the Thermomix. This is an all-in-one machine, and they're really popular five-star restaurants; Is it worth it for your kitchen? The Thermomix and all of work kind of similarly. They have an enclosed and then they have a jar on top, and they come with a bunch of attachments to do a whole bunch of things that let you cook everything We compared it one-to-one to in three categories: our our favorite stand mixer, because they promise to replace all of those appliances Let's talk about how it We made dough in the stand mixer and in this, and in fact, did a great job. We compared it to our and we tried to make mirepoix where we were chopping It chopped all right, but the problem is, to check on this one, in this little hole in the top or stopping it and We had to keep stopping and adjusting and really trying to get a sense of exactly how to achieve It was not easy. So, there's a big learning curve. Food processors can also slice or shred. The Thermomix doesn't it just has little blades at So, then we compared it to the blender. So, like Hannah said, you with the food kind of pressed to get really great blending action. This jar, it's a little bit stout. We've made our favorite smoothie with kale and frozen We made that in our regular blender. Great results, beautiful green uniform. This, not as well, and that were unprocessed Not bad in a pinch, not great. So, I would score one What it does do is it also cooks. It has the heating element, It has lots of settings. It has access to an if you subscribe. And there's a lot of user So, we struggled a little bit You cannot remove the blades; And so, if you're not careful, you're gonna get this everything that you're going to cook. Meat while you're trying to brown it is moving too much to really brown because it isn't staying in The problem is it's very that wasn't developed by this machine. That's just too limiting, and at this price, it really So, is this thing worth it? If you really want to be in the Thermomix world, sure, I guess so. It's $1,500. But if you wanna save some money and get a lot more function, to our winning food processor, our winning stand mixer, and because each of those can do more in its own way than this can, and all three together cost Next up, copper skillets. Now, copper skillets and other copper cookware with fine cooking. Here in America, Julia Child full of copper pans in which is now in the Smithsonian. Copper transfers heat in terms of the speed at And so, when you turn the down, it gets cooler almost instantly. And that responsiveness It's about one and a half and 25 times more responsive The other thing you need to know is that copper is highly reactive, which means that when it's tomatoes, citrus; it will It is actually poisonous That has to be lined for cookware. And the lining has come down The traditional one is tin - it actually has a little The problem is it is not It's gonna melt and come off the pan. We tested a pan that was lined with tin. We were simply browning some butter in it, and we did wreck the lining. The newer method is to line it with a very, very, very thin Any cookware material you can get hotspots, 'cause and transferring that heat to the food. Stainless steel likes to retain it's a little less responsive it's totally non-reactive, that heat a little bit. A really good copper skillet's gonna have a fairly thick layer of copper; very, very thin layer of stainless. Our winner here is by Mauviel. This one is 90% copper, 10% stainless, which works out really well. And that also leads to the next Copper is super expensive. This costs almost four times as much as our winning tri-ply which has stainless, aluminum, stainless; and it comes with a lid. So, is it four times as good a pan? It's very nice; it is beautiful, but it did not perform four times as well as this tri-ply pan from All-Clad. Copper is not induction compatible. So, you can use this on induction. You can't use a copper skillet We do have an option if you really want to get some copper in your cookware, and that's this one - it's and they cut away a little bit right here, so you can see that This is a multi-clad pan with So, it's stainless, aluminum, They can put a Ferris layer on the outside of stainless steel so its induction compatible. And this is a beautiful But this is about twice Is copper four times Performance-wise, you're much better off saving that extra money and buying this fully-clad pan, which is stainless, aluminum, stainless, and it performs very similarly to these much more expensive copper pans. Next up: stand mixers, Now, we recently tested stand This was in the mix. This is a new one. It's new to the United States. It's been going in Sweden and throughout Europe since the 1940s. This is called the Ankarsrum. It has a very radically different design from what we are used to with KitchenAid, which really sort of set the I have to admit, when we first I did not know where to I, after total confusion and watching a lot of YouTube videos because the manual is not that So, unlike what we know of as where the motor is in the horizontal head on top of the bowl, the bowl which is enclosed in the base. The bowl turns rather than the beaters, which is kind of different. And the parts are a little I mean, typically, you'll have a whisk for whipping cream and egg whites, paddle for beating batters, and you'll have a hook for dough. This does have those parts, but they look a little different. This is the dough hook, and of the bowl, and this part comes up. Next to it, you'll find this blade, and this scrapes continually while it's being kneaded Third, when you're whipping cream or mixing batter and which is a clear bowl, and you take off the metal this sits on there. The tools will travel around in the bowl. This is an easier way to in the bowl when you're or whipped cream. And there's smaller to do cookie dough. When you wanna do bread dough, pizza, anything like that, and these really heavy duty hooks, you can replace the hook with this which is a roller, and it against the wall of the machine. You can really work a stiff, heavy dough, and you can do a ton of it With a stand mixer, it's which is the twisting force move it around the bowl. And this has a ton of torque. In fact, this machine is and the manual practically We made really stiff, dry bagel dough, and it's totally fine. You can watch it through this open bowl, and that is really fascinating, too, because you can really and adding ingredients is so much easier 'cause there's no big head Not to name names, but never to knead dough above speed two. And the latest one we that compares to this one, It has 11 speeds, and up to speed two, which is telling me that they're trying to protect Now, that said, we mixed but came out fine. But having to kind of that you're not damaging the motor, it was refreshing to not have that. You can go as high as you want in this. With a lot of stand mixers, they will really struggle that are challenging. They'll rock, they'll off the counter and jump onto the floor. This did not walk. This did not move. It was kind of awesome. And the other thing is, about KitchenAid, some of a little more worthwhile In this case, you actually on its side. So, it comes with a blender, a grain mill, a pasta maker, an ice cream machine. It does all the things that for with KitchenAid, for the most part, but they're exclusive to this machine. So, you're not giving anything up there. It is around the same price, within $100 of our top of the line, highly recommended 7 Quart KitchenAid Pro. It actually has some things maybe even a little bit better. In terms of: is it worth it? If you are a person who bakes a lot, you may wanna invest in this. You know who you are if who has burned out machines before. We've had some really great reports from readers commenting to us. So, we did test it. You have two choices. KitchenAid is not the Okay, so now you've seen So, we hope you have a of when to spend and when to save so you don't get that For more information on all check out the links below or go to americastestkitchen.com. - What do you think? Is any of the gear we talked We're sure you'll let Make sure to Like this video and hit Subscribe so you (upbeat groovy percussion music)