Ly Thi Huong Hello everyone, I wish you and your family good health and luck in life. Take this. Take it. Take it and get out. Take it all. Go here. Done. Go away. Don't come in. Here, if I see Huong coming home, I'll tell her to come home and stay here. You can go do your work and she'll relax. Then you'll come back to visit and sell anything here. Will you clean it? Will you tell me if you clean it? Don't you clean up? clean up now. This is on purpose. I accepted my boss and went home. I'm not here anymore. This is where you and Ms. Huong discovered it. Now how can I come here on my own? I'm not going anywhere. I have no place. Let's go home and my husband has kicked me out. I don't have anywhere to go anymore. If I don't have anywhere to go, I have to go. I don't know. Niu, just stay here and get your clothes. I don't know. Just leave them here. But now I have nowhere to go to see how dirty the house and kitchen are. You cook and you eat all week . Yes, you can cook it from yesterday and the day before yesterday. I'll give it to the pigs to eat , why don't you leave it for dinner? If you eat this rice, you'll get poisoned. Oh this kid, why did you deliberately throw away my dinner? I'm still eating at night , why should I feed it to a pig? Why are you eating? What are you doing ? I'm still eating tonight. Go home, get your clothes, go home and eat . Cook what's mine and dump what's mine. I'm so upset, feed the pig. You haven't cooked for the pig these past few days. I didn't just feed it yesterday . Yesterday, I still have to feed the pig. I don't know what to do. Why do you feed so much? I raise it so it can give birth to its babies. Raising you is a waste of food . I still work, but pigs don't know what to do? Do you like to argue? I'm going to kick her out . Here's your stuff. Go away . I'm not going. I'm not going . I'm not going. I'll lock the door. There's no way I'll treat you. You're used to it. I'm done. I'm not here. There's nothing to do. Take it, okay? I don't have anywhere to go. My husband chases me. I don't have anywhere to go. I'm just here. I have no place to go. I can't handle you. If you want to chase me, then chase me. Just leave me alone and stand up. I won't go back. If you don't come back, don't come back, do n't go, do n't go anywhere . If you do that, I'll chase you away. If you don't come back , I 'll chase you away . I'll chase you away. I can't do anything. You just lie here . Mom has spoiled you too much. You have no place to go. You can just stay here and leave me alone. Just lie down. I'll lock the door and see how much you can lie down. I'll go home . Please give me some money . It's okay. My briefcase isn't full of money. I'll ask for money. If you like the money, I'll give it to you. I give you money. Okay, I'll give you money. You take it and go away You take it all and go away You take it all and go here here here here here oh so happy but just go away don't stay here oh god as long as you have the money you can go anywhere don't let me see your face again As long as you have money, you can go anywhere, please, please, please don't stay here. I'm really happy. I've never seen this much money. Oh my god, I'm so happy . I'm so happy. Oh my god, it's so fragrant, money n, money, so much money. I've changed my life. Oh my god mom Oh my God, so much money Oh my God, I've changed my life now I'm rich and have a place to live. I have the potential to not worry about a place to live anymore. Oh my god, that's a lot of money. I've never seen so much money. Money, money. Money.) Oh money Oh really, it changed my life, a lot of money Who is that, why are you here? What do you have? I don't have anything, I only have blankets, so what do I look at? There's nothing to look around for. Have you seen my brother coming here these past few days? I don't see why anyone is here, so why bother asking ? Are you really not coming back here? Didn't you see that I met you in an accident yesterday ? Did you think you didn't come back here? If you didn't see an accident, why didn't you save me and why did you come here to ask? She went to call the doctor and when she came back, she didn't know where he was, so she kept going back and forth. I wasn't scared when I was beaten the other day. Can I just hit you once ? Let me feed the pigs because they just ate my entire pot of rice. Eat something, eat something, eat something. You're so cruel. Just stop eating something more. Go away, don't come back here. I'm not looking for you. I'm so fake that you locked your door and thought you didn't know how to open it . Damn it, I thought I couldn't open it. I simply put the money away and thought I didn't know how to open it. . I thought I didn't know how to open a simple door opener [music] shoes these days are of poor quality. After wearing them for more than a year, they broke and re -glued the shoes. I'll buy another pair tomorrow. I want to visit him for a bit, but he still curses me for being so cruel. I'm so upset now. I don't know where to go to find him. I don't know if he's okay or not. Or should I cut a bunch of bananas to the company he works at to sell, and maybe I'll meet him when I get home from work? Have you eaten yet, Mom? Mom, I've already eaten, I'm over there , what are you going to do, carrying a bag like that ? Mom's going to get Giang leaves. What are you going to do? Where have you been for so long and you haven't come back? I've been busy at work and just got home today. Do you have time? I invite you in for a drink. I invite you for a drink. Where have you been working lately? Is it a good job? make a lot of money? It's normal, Mom, it's just a little, so I have to try to do my job. I tried to do it during the time I was at home. How are you? It's normal, Mom. Have you seen Huong over here these past few days? Yesterday I still came back here and now I'm going to the market or something or I'm going to do something the other day, then Ninh comes back and chases my wife and children away. Do you know about that? Mom didn't know and I also didn't know what this kid was so upset about that made her chase me away. Today I chased it away but it's still lying there. I really woke up. Is it still lying there? Yes, he said he didn't listen. Her husband chased her away and she didn't work and just wanted to eat. Her husband chased her away , so the child is gone and this child shouldn't be here. Yes, tomorrow when I see Huong coming home, I tell her to come back here and stay, and then I go to work and she relaxes. I'll come back to visit . When I see her, I'll come home. Mom told him to stay here. Yes, he's not around. Poor him . So, after the water left, I went to rest. Okay, I guess I'll take a break and have to go to work again. Yes. Mom, drink some water. I'll go to work. I'll be back for a few days. Yes, mom. Do you still have money to spend? I gave it to you. Just a little money to use is fine, but it's okay. But if you have a child, just take it to work first. This time, I will also get some advance money. If you use it, please tell me. If it 's lacking , another mother will call your child. I'll go to work. Yes, please go rest. Do you have bananas? right, chop one, let go and sell this chamber is a bit young . Hey, here is a ripe chamber. C is so ripe . Oh my god, the mice ate half of this. It's so delicious. Let's sell it. They probably like it a lot. It's really delicious. I wonder if there are any ripe chambers left. Wow, that's delicious, that's really delicious. Hey, hello , grandma . Have you seen Huong's family out here these days , selling anything? You mustn't have noticed. I haven't seen you anywhere. I came up here to ask if anyone had seen it . It's been a while. You haven't seen it. I haven't seen it in a few days. Thank you. Please let me ask. Have you seen the Huong? Does your family come here and sell any vegetables or fruits here? I haven't seen you three, four, three, four days, I haven't seen you, three, four, I haven't seen you today, grandma , thank you [music] are you selling bananas? Yes, buy bananas. Come down, mom, which banana should I buy? You choose, which one will you get? How much does it cost? Ten thousand per penny I just sold it here. I don't usually see it. Yes, I just sold it for ten thousand. I'm selling it cheap. I beg you. Byeby bye I'm going home Next time please support me again Yes, come over later Yes how much does it cost? ten thousand, one bet for me, one bet, which one will you take? What is that lady doing here? Is there a place for you to sell goods? What are you doing there? This guy This place is not a place to sell. Leave me bananas. This guy will go away today. There's no one here. Can you sell it here? Do you see this as a big company? I told you to clean it up. Have you cleaned it up yet? Have you cleaned up all this mess for me yet? With such a big company, who would allow people like you to sit here and sell everything to me in poverty? I told you the other day that you didn't hang around in front of the company. My company is full of high-class people, not poor people like the girl who sells here. I'll just clean it all up and not sell it anymore. Why should I sell this ? You broke my things again? I just sold it for a while and said I only had to clean it once and then I looked at it like it was itchy and my eyes were shaking . Clean it up quickly. Are you still sitting there crying and telling me to clean it up? Don't do it on purpose. Miss, I'll ask Huong if she brought vegetables. Is it for sale here? I haven't seen my wife leave since the other day and now I don't know where to go. Yes, thank you. Thank you for taking the time to follow. Wishing you good health and luck