You probably remember learning about the Egyptian And even if you weren't part of the public some information about them at a museum or These mammoths of structures are hard to escape nature -- to put it lightly. The tallest pyramid in Egypt, the Great Pyramid has since eroded down to 451 feet because For you to better imagine this, the average tall. So, if we're doing the math correctly on would've stood at the height of a 32-story So, who's responsible for the creation of mysterious pyramids? We'll get to the bottom of it today on this the Pyramids? Before we get into the nitty gritty of who 101, shall we? There are about 80 pyramids currently standing The oldest is the Pyramid of Djoser, and it's The pyramid was built in 2630 B.C. for King Many of the more popularized and notable pyramids some of which include the Giza Necropolis, of the World -- and the Khafre Pyramid. Ancient Egyptians were one of the first civilizations They didn't see death as the cessation of They believed that when a king died, a part with his physical body. The mummification we've all come to know served the purpose of preserving a king's They basically hoped the king's soul would So the king's ka was never left wanting, food and furniture along with the dead king. Egyptians really weren't messing around When the pharaoh was still alive, they revered and when he died, he took on the form of Osiris, His responsibility as Osiris was to set the raise it. They believed this symbiotic relationship Back to pyramids, though. They were built to last -- made mostly of the core of the pyramid, while white limestone interior walls. Pink granite was used on the walls inside, for the floors. Egypt has sometimes been referred to as the shortage of it. The basalt they used sometimes came from the the Western desert, while alabaster was from Denys Stocks, an ancient technology consultant, a 35,900-lb -- that's 16.3 tons, by the block, as he noted in his 2003 book Experiments in Ancient Egypt. One single pyramid project could have taken For the longest time, it was thought that built the pyramids, and we can blame this the Greek historian who wrote that the Great who 'laboured constantly and were relieved The BBC further argues that there's no way for the commissioning of the Great Pyramid, him, and there's no way that all of them We can also thank western Hollywood movies Movies like The Ten Commandments, that epic it's literally an epic saga that ran for Another misconception that's circulated This lie started when former Israeli Prime he visited the National Museum of Cairo in Amihai Mazar, a professor at the Institute Jerusalem and Israeli archaeologist, refutes make any sense. "No Jews built the pyramids because Jews were built,&quot; Mazar was quoted saying. Dorothy Resig, an editor of Biblical Archaeology could've also stemmed from a verse in Exodus the Egyptians enslaved the children of Israel them to work to build buildings." That's not exactly the way the verse reads, Then there are those people out there who Let's all let out one huge exhaustive sigh. This far-reaching theory looks a little bit If light moves 299,792,458 metres per second Pyramid are 29.9792458degN, and humans weren't this type of accuracy until 1950, then &quot;advanced from the future to build the pyramids. People who believe in the Ancient Aliens theory UK, and other ancient monuments. Look, we're not responsible for what you saying that graffiti inside the pyramids, story and have gotten archaeologists -- and who built the pyramids, how they would have The BBC notes that archeologists have agreed was made up of two teams -- the primary workers There were about 4,000 primary workers who masons. They lived with their families in a pyramid The temporary team was made up of 16,000 to made mortar and were in charge of miscellaneous fuel. They lived in a separate camp near the pyramid The state of the Nile was also important for For the building of the pyramid at Giza, Mark Zahi Hawass believed that a skeleton crew year, but a larger force would labor in late surrounding fields. Archaeologists haven't discovered all there pyramid builders dwelled, but excavations Lehner shed more light. We know they slept on mud ramps, which served These barracks were in galleries, which can up to 2,000 temporary workers would stay. These sleeping galleries also had spaces in In 2016, archaeologist and Egyptologist Yukinori for Nat Geo Live. In that discussion, he said there was a vast but not enough on the inside -- or core -- of even more light on the construction techniques. Before going into his discoveries, he laid pyramid would shed light on construction techniques. For example, if the inside of the pyramid this would've been amenable to using a straight What he found was unlike any of these, though: which were computer scientists -- climbed and found a notch with a crevice and then The team didn't have a laser scanner that while climbing up, but they did manage to which they then broke down further into 300,000 Through these 3-D image renderings, they found sand and debris -- something called the chamber He noted that it was also used for the construction What did pyramid builders eat? Turns out they had no beef with beef. As much as 21 cattle and 23 sheep were sent fix in. They also ate fish and liked to kick it back And while we noted before that these people a cost: Discoveries of their bodies show they were impacted by the wear and tear. Ouch. As we mentioned before, an enormous amount so the Egyptians had to figure out an efficient up. An illustration in Twelfth Dynasty tomb of on a sledge has given experts a better sense These sledges they'd drag across the hot upturned edges. So, not the most sophisticated, but still To make their lives easier, they'd wet the across. And they were old-school when it came to measuring. They didn't use rulers, but a &quot;cubit&quot; was finger to your elbow, and a "hand" was of your hand with the thumb on the side. Cubits served them when they dug post holes out the site in a grid. Pyramid builders were precise in that they ran parallel to the north-south and east-west To achieve this, they had to rely on nature at their disposal. The movements of the stars helped them identify rods and circles to identify the rising and Finding out the other cardinal directions piece of cake. They were certainly a resourceful bunch. In his book Engineering the Pyramids, Dr. have also used a cradle-like machine that rolled by a few people. The Obayashi Corporation, a Japanese construction in 1996 to see if a two-and a half-ton block per minute and the study proved it could be In 2013, French archaeologist Pierre Tallet of a pyramid-building official simply named on the Red Sea Coast -- and these gave an teams worked, specifically when it came to And their method involved an L-shaped jetty According to Merer's writings, they'd boats that would sail to the Sinai Peninsula, to Wadi al-Jarf, then using those materials After all this, now you can whip out your next cocktail party when the topic comes up, aliens built them. You make the choice. The pyramid-building, brain-eating aliens you they didn't build the pyramids tell ancient egypt, so check out our video Unbelievable egypt.