- Just a heads up. I'm saying 'JK Rowling' (incorrect pronunciation) in this video, just because I say JK Rowling by default. I know it's 'JK Rowling' but So it's JK Rowling. Thank Hey, I've got jet lag. What the [] is going on? So for context, a convicted pedophile named Steven Van de Velde is representing the in the 2024 Olympics. Vanderbilt was cleared as not a risk despite grooming was 19, before flying out plying her with alcohol and repeatedly sexually GB NEWS GUEST: Actually it sounds more very inappropriate holiday romance thing. I dunno if I, if I was between the age of 12 and - Or something. When asked whether the Dutch convicted child rapist, the we are protecting a Yes. Being in the Olympics and does inevitably bring with and celebrity that could easily And it's understandable why safety is gonna be worried Oh, that's not what JK So there's Imane Khelif a 25-year-old Olympic women's something she had already and she is the source of the controversy of the JK Rowling highlighted that being assigned male unfair advantage over, hang on a second. She is not transgender. She was assigned female at birth and the last time she was at the Olympics, she lost. Yeah, this seems way worse - Are the Olympic lives at risk? I, - I think there can be no doubt they're putting women's lives at - Risk. So in Algeria, where Khali is from, gender transition is not LGBT people in general are not It's illegal to be gay in Algeria. Women's rights are also not great with often heavy restrictions education and personal throughout the country. Imane herself had to struggle for her position selling scrap metal around the rural village for the bus fare to get All of this in the face of people who didn't consider it to have this interest This is the person JK Rowling has decided to lead a hate campaign not the rapist volleyball guy. This. This is a person a I assume the house from decided to smear relentlessly with no Claims that jeopardize not and reputation, but put her All of this falling perfectly in line with increasing attacks on Lin Yu-Ting to Nandini Agasara to Santhi Soundarajan, and is anyone else knowing a pattern here? The truth does not matter. The safety of women does not matter because JK Rowling's and her trans derangement Joanne Rowling, you are You are genuine filth and I really do hope you lose You lying scumbag, you disingenuous subversive nave and when it is announced to the black mold I will not forgive you. So why did she do this? Does JK Rowling hate intersex people? Does JK Rowling hate women? Absolutely racists who hate women like JK Rowling are a man as a way to dismiss people of color when they have the gall to be better than white people in any kind of athletic event. As I mentioned, athletes like almost to suicide due to the with these kinds of accusations. Serena Williams was widely born as a guy during and after her rise to professional success, something she's learned to deal with even as angry racists continue And let me be clear tremendous cope. Imane Khelif has repeatedly lost including the last time she being beaten by Irish boxer Kellie Another boxer Amy Broadhurst, tweeted &quot;Personally, I don't think I think it's the way she was born and that's out of her control. The fact that she's been before says it all.&quot; Even Angela Carini, the Italian that started this controversy people trying to use her to push their transphobic narrative. &quot;I want to apologise to her and because my Olympics had gone up in smoke. I don't have anything against Khelif Actually, if I was to meet her Now, I did take jujitsu classes for about four months in my twenties, so I think I can pretty confidently combat sports and I will agree with others that Angela's behavior at the time of her loss was unsportsmanlike. seeing all this Now, knowing all the things and everything else, and then and saying, yeah, but, but look at this. That's a man. Media can often distort people's view of reality and the fact is the Olympics is often one of the only times many and see women whose to excel at an event the shock of finding out most women don't staged lighting to constantly accentuate The trauma of discovering that especially if you're the type of women was shaped mostly and Overwatch porn. I can understand how it to be subjected to someone that can destroy a competition. And I know the Zarya fans It's the lingering question of humanity, Is it goon brain or just fearing women in general? This is really what I think to a lot of people, and it's JK Rowling have continued and quadruple down on it because it just looks so fucking to care about women or even openly call themselves around and try and destroy a woman's life because she doesn't outwardly to JK Rowling to be effectively of a male incel. I was gonna start this video claims of Imane failing an undisclosed test that after the fact to justify this situation. There's the disgraced status The fact that the claims came conveniently after Imane beat a Russian fighter. There's the fact that the IBA of the tests and seemed confused on what the tests even were. One IBA official called The president called and when the IBA pointed out the lab, the test supposedly took the agency said they didn't do those. When the Olympic Committee they stated that from the how the test was shared to how the tests have become that it's impossible to engage with. With all this in mind, or any of these people actually unverified claims of a that is unsure of what No. I think she saw a picture, got mad and made a snap judgment about a woman to instantly dehumanize her to to the same harassment women they chose not to present of the same small mindedness take an interest in something with their gender assignment Congratulations, transvestigation team, you've done it again, please proceed to your next assignment. Measuring bone structure and examining makeup to call and Taylor Swift and also JK Rowing and also somehow not Dylan Mulvaney, trans exclusionary radical not feminism. You know, this just ends by banning women's boxing, right? Even if we ignore the and lived as a woman her of hiding a secret deviant identity, especially given her country of origin, if we ignore her father offering to demonstrate her birth that Khelif has already lost matches to other women publicly numerous times, What's the best case scenario here? That a person with a platform with no demonstrable evidence saw footage of a female boxer being beaten by another larger female boxer, saw some unverified claim and then instantly decided as a violent man who All of this to start...... a witch hunt, but I know something stronger Conservative grift, And you know it's a bullshit Labour government is That's just a little British joke there for the British. they really think you're I am so fucking tired of this and I'm not even trans. It's even been pointed out that highlighting this specific dumb as fuck moral outrage is in who are completely deranged about trans people, and they're right! Responding to this whole situation just by throwing up your hands and saying, wait, guys, and maybe get them killed. This is a real authentic biological woman. Leave the violence to the other ones. It's kind of missing the problem. Maybe it's telling us something in itself that the literal demonization so neatly into an easy way and abuse of women in general. And to be clear, I'm not using non-literal way as of me filming this. Imane had just shaken after they'd literally of Imane as a demon. The unfortunate fact is of this matters to a lot of people because they've just been and propaganda pieces that Even basic empathy for They already got told by conservative grifters who to be made in stoking and disgust than actually Do I think for a second this man pummels women into submission boxing event? I mean, maybe that video did kind of flop and was pretty dog shit even by the quarterings usual - They aren't just trying they are trying to ruin women's lives because as I previously The reason by the way they're allowed to do this is because of women. - This is a man who just Floor pisser. women fought for this trans crap and now they gotta deal with it. Sorry, not sorry. You told men you didn't You told men, Hey, shut You told men we were transphobic. I mean, look at this dude's Women's arms don't look like that. - But in general, you can see the financial incentive of that pander to things people The fear, this is the - Is about preventing a man from beating a woman to death. - I would say news media, where the goal is getting as is a bad idea. Sex perverts are infiltrating The Olympics is using coded to attack Christian values. You can't even say Christmas anymore. It's great that that ended moral panic of that week. Witness. The same people whose constantly complaining and cancel culture canceling because they thought for a supper parody, which it turns out they weren't! the same single brain cell constantly firing off about woke mob, woke mob, woke mob, and some fucking glitter and body paint is enough Again, you do not need to cry about it for a year when your screen is exposed to someone you can't jack off to. Your constant edging is a problem and it's destroying us as a family. - The capacity of people to easily accept gaslighting is hilarious. You know, I mean, it's like, are we still, are we back in Covid once I did wanna make an extra note about this specific controversy. Thomas Jolly, who choreographed ceremony was pretty clear that the central that depicted a feast of Olympian gods and not the Last Supper. It makes sense since it's at the Olympics, and also Jesus is not blue Dionysus is the Greek God of festivities. The piece was called festivities. He's also the God of fertility. He also fathered the which is in Paris. The point is, you can see what he's saying, but it is also a long table setting where everyone's standing on one side, which in fairness is kind of the only way to do it in a show like this. But either way, people have and it's probably gonna I'm sure that most people of the scene referencing an Even if it was secondary, and promoters would be happy to jump to referencing the thing to know all is to say to apologize for or flatly deny that they think the thing A lot of famous historical art and even modern art frequently even subconsciously. Here's a Deadpool 2 poster of Adam, where instead it's Josh Brolin pointing sadist in latex. For some reason, people The church doesn't get a a long table, and also I kept looking for the original source that supposedly contradicted Jolly, but everywhere just kept pointing back to an article on TheWrap, I would like the source, please OP. I've always had these that to some extent are why One of those thoughts is just from the First Men in Black. - Why? Why the big secret? People are smart, they can handle it. A person is smart, dangerous animals, and you know it. - Maybe people as a and irrational and are liable to just go that suits their panicky irrational fears. Maybe sometimes people or educated about anything, who agree with you and Another part of me says, the guy who made that speech was a cop. Of course, people can be to be reasoned with. Imagine me doing the and you know, it's like, oh, Usually I try to let that where my career is and my weird thoughts to I want that part to win the and meeting people where they are aren't just with no spine about anything, and are worth pursuing. But people have been Here in the uk, the country of riots fueled by anti-immigrant and in particular anti-Muslim sentiment after a series of stabbings This might lead you to believe that the lead suspects Muslim immigrants. They were not. One was Meanwhile, posting from a resort to stir up more rioting with more tweets that a Muslim had just stabbed It got 29,000 likes, 2.1 million views, and no, it was also not a Muslim. He did also later of his Muslim tax advisor represent him, and it was funny, but the riots are still taking place at time of filming this. I think they just got what they were told were asylum seekers and were actually emergency NHS nurses. You can't convince me this I don't ever want to just flatly dismiss to their concerns, listen to Democracy in concept, I agree with it. I think we should listen to people see what their issues are, come but when these are the things, the rage and the fear are justified and if it's not immigrants or Muslims or that one group that you to say who they are, like you can't criticize 'em, It's Jewish people. He's then I get that most people are and aren't going around but sometimes I do feel by people who have been Pavlov's when there's any mention of gay Muslim transgender The 2024 Olympics are just Every day I wake up and there is another and it's ruined gaming. I keep going back to the thought that even if we assume every jumped to was true, if she was somehow an to disguise herself for 25 to beat up women, it would still actually that trans people don't have the automatic advantage in sports. Imane could most likely of people attacking her, but her record is far from spotless, and that's in the exact type of sport people would instantly jump to. As an obvious example of men the outrage doesn't even make sense, if it was true. I need you all to be better is probably the wrong takeaway from this. Why is it that when JK Rowling posts libel, it becomes legitimate news and not legally actionable as JK Rowling's critics often discover? why does she have the platform she has? Why does Steven Yaxley Lennon 'cause they have the privilege to shape global narratives either because of their own or through the assistance or organizations like Sky News that can wield their own to artificially boost them. That's a - Strong, strong statement, and I've gotta say I am with - What I'm saying is Elon and this is the problem with society. Please follow me on blue sky. When you are someone like JK to concern yourself with of someone like Iman or Rowling's wealth is so great that she can completely detach herself and alienate everyone around her through her freakish fixation and it just doesn't matter. People ask why someone like of multiple nations keeps choosing to spend her days sitting incessantly about trans That's the reason she doesn't It's all a fun little pet game because JK Rowling is too rich to remember what being a human being is like and now that's everyone's problem. If you want to see what Imane has gone through this week, then imagine someone in the escape of getting to reassure people they're not 'one of them'. and if you wanna see privilege, look at a person whose and larger as she spews more and more lies and misinformation and status to force it on everyone else and even more wealthy friends Why is this? People often overthink it and make it into a grand conspiracy. It's not really a conspiracy. It's actually the the video for this whole time. Say it with me, it's capitalism. Capitalism inevitably has winners and those people are united to protect their interests and a profound lack of of the systems they maintain. Throw another Imane Khelif on the fire, get people debating Ring those bells. Serve the fresh meat. and please for the love of to the people who have that has somehow become even historic highs of inequality. Vote based on the fears and absolutely not anything The question isn't, does JK Rowling truly Of course she does. Her whole The question is, does this moral panic, whether based on fact or fiction, effectively reshape the world to keep people fighting and outraged and pointed at exactly Jack, you're a hypocrite. You are also responding to to explain lies about Explain the context. You Again, sometimes I agree, to waste time explaining If the masses are getting pulled along by a fabricated culture I can't help but feel that that consistently fracture that does prevent them and collectively. Also, if I gave up like that, I probably just would stop In retrospect, maybe that was what you actually wanted I, I think I've misunderstood It's a good thing I'm free of all these potential incentives control over, please send me No, please. Really, I need this. I wanna make sure to highlight the people of Algeria seem more outraged than anything else. Having a national heroine who could bring back a historic win, having her performance by this global smearing, regardless of the Algerian government's policies, I don't wanna suggest the I'm far from an expert on Algerian culture and what I've seen so far I also obviously don't wanna suggest any of the things I've said here Of course, JK Rowling is a saint and would never misrepresent anyone, and she actually has lots of friends and family at home mansion when she tweets and if I randomly go on Twitter and give a strangely formal to JK Rowling, it was definitely not because I was threatened It was actually just Thank you for watching. I working on for some time coming very soon. I just, I could not make Once again, please consider Patreon or sending a tip on YouTube If you enjoyed the video, $5 or more gets you on the Thank you for watching.