Good morning, everyone! The early fog in the Carpathians gives this day its special peace. Today we will show you a piece of our simple but sincere life. We go to the forest with a faithful friend, he is always there. A quiet stream hid behind the trees, like a place where time stood still. The fog envelops the forest, an almost fabulous view. We found the first mushroom a good start! Here they are, one by one, everywhere. A faithful assistant! I immediately found a mushroom, that's how an assistant is in the forest. - Well done! Here's another one, there are clearly plenty of mushrooms today! And here is the most delicious one, hiding as if on purpose! We are looking for mushrooms under the foliage and branches, because the real finds are always hidden in the most unexpected places. A whole meadow of mushrooms is the bounty of the forest! The forest fills the frame with its greenery and tranquility, as if inviting us into its arms. The mountain, standing quietly in the middle of the forest, seems to guard this peaceful place. A majestic mountain can be seen in the distance, and the forest around is full of fresh scents and sounds of nature. We carefully descend the slope, enjoying the fresh air and beautiful views around. The dog is curiously exploring the forest, its ears are alert, and its tail is wagging merrily, It's as if she feels that something amazing is waiting ahead. We return to our native village. My beloved wife always helps with the housework, she does not sit still. With a fishing rod in hand, we go to the lake. We enjoy fishing, enjoying every moment spent in nature. With a smile, we raise our first fish of the day. We are patiently waiting for the float to start twitching, enjoying the silence and beauty of the lake. When cleaning the fish, do not forget about our furry friend. I thoroughly wash the freshly caught fish under running water. Fry the fish until crisp. Potatoes will be a great side dish for fish. A calf with big, kind eyes looks curiously into the camera. Nearby, a cow with beautiful ears and a gentle gaze is immersed in the process of eating grass Peeling mushrooms, we feel how fresh and fragrant they are. Each mushroom is being prepared to become a part of our dish. We continue to wash the mushrooms, admiring their freshness. We look at the recipe with interest so as not to miss a single detail. We stubbornly chop wood, preparing to light the stove. Carefully light the stove, watching as the fire begins to dance. We strictly follow the recipe so that everything turns out in the best possible way. Fragrant spices and herbs will give the dish a special taste. Here she is, our cow! She is always glad to meet us. We roll up jars of mushrooms to remember the warm moments and enjoy them in winter. Our kind dog is also glad to see you! Today, my little assistant is with me again, who is always ready to support! And, of course, my favorite assistant, without whom no business can do. The laughter and joy of children is a real joy in our home. Soon we will gather at the table to enjoy a delicious lunch. The mushrooms are almost ready, the aroma is all over the street! We'll add wood for the stove. Here is our white rabbit, always ready to please with his playfulness! We put food on and everyone is already gathered at the table! The whole family gathered at the table to enjoy the simple joys of life. The sun breaks through the fog, giving the forest a mysterious charm. The forest is full of wonders, every step is a new discovery. We walk along the path with the children, sharing smiles and joy. Here it is, our big mushroom! A real trophy of a forest walk. Mountains can be seen in the distance, like guardians of the forest, who guard this beauty. Children are so curious about everything. An old sewing machine. An old lantern. Picnic under a tree, simple and pleasant to enjoy the moment. The branches of the apple tree are generously strewn with fruits. A huge field where nature merges with majestic mountains. We return home full of impressions and the joy of adventure. The nature around us is always inspiring -- there is something amazing hidden in every corner. Thank you for being with us today. Good health to you and your loved ones, may every day bring joy! Goodbye!