It has been 4 months since the student revolution and Sheikh Hasina's departure from Bangladesh In these 4 months, relations between India and Bangladesh have been deteriorating. The Indian government has repeatedly raised concerns about the condition of Hindus in Bangladesh. In response, Bangladesh has also said in a loud voice that India should reduce its propaganda first. No one is targeting Hindus except for some political violence. And some big countries are not able to digest Bangladesh's new independence. Bangladesh, in whose formation India played an important role, is not even talking to the same Indian government. When the MEA issued a statement in the case of arrest of a former ISKCON member... that Chinmoy Das should get justice Then Bangladesh replied in official statement that Chinmoy is a Bangladeshi citizen and such interference is not good. When West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee asked for UN peacekeepers in Bangladesh, Then home advisor of Bangladesh said UN should be sent to India for minorities here What is the truth? Is there a Hindu massacre going on? If it is going on, what are the details? How many people have died in the last 4 months? If genocide is going on, is the Modi government unable to stop it? Bangladesh's anger is aimed at India or its govt? Why they think the Indian government is not protecting Sheikh Hasina in India, but trying to bring back to power? How true is it that there is a planned way of spreading confusion and communal tension in Bangladesh? In the last few days, we spoke to many Indian foreign policy experts and independent Bangladeshi journalists to understand how the relations between the two countries have become so bad. What is the perception about each other on ground? Two countries which share 4000 km common boundary cannot fight like this India is now calling back diplomats from Bangladesh. Talks of boycotting Indian products. If this keeps on, that time is not far when Bangladesh will go to China's side What can the Indian government do in this situation? What is the truth in Bangladesh? Let's find out. [Subscribe and press bell icon] First of all, India-Bangladesh relations are so complicated that there is no right or wrong in it. If you want a black and white narrative, then you may as well leave But if you want to understand the perspectives of both sides, then sit down and give us some time. Because our team put a lot of effort.. Second point. There are very strong emotional sentiments from both sides, especially from Bangladesh side, regarding this issue. It is important to understand if you want a solution. Indian mainstream media has been reporting on the latest developments in Bangladesh. Manipur air pollution, Adani, economy, unemployment. Forget about our own minorities, the focus is on the situation in Bangladesh. After Chinmoy Krishna Das's arrest, Indian media has gone after transition government of Mohd Yunus in Bangladesh Indian Government and by extension, Indian mainstream media has clearly stated that Chinmoy Das should be immediately bailed, Religious persecution should be immediately stopped against Hindus Interim Govt. should take concrete steps for the protection of minorities We have discussed this issue extensively on the Deshbhakt channel. There is no doubt that Hindus have been attacked in Bangladesh But there have been two types of attacks. Political violence and communal violence. Political violence is the most common... Sheikh Hasina's Awami League members have been attacked. extrajudicial violence should not happen, but it has happened. Both Muslims and Hindus were beaten. Along with this, there have been incidents of communal violence. And it took time to stop it because the police system has been in a mess in Bangladesh. But the government and people of Bangladesh clearly believe that the Indian government and Indian mainstream media has tried to show the situation of genocide and mass rape in Bangladesh by exaggerating these cases. The thing to note is that the Indian government has not used the word genocide or mass rape in the context of Bangladesh. And no number, figure or list of the killed Hindus has been issued. Independent journalists are asking why the Indian government is trying to save Chinmoy Das. Is he an Indian citizen? No, he is a Bangladeshi. Is he connected to ISKCON? No, he was removed from ISKCON a few months ago. Some reports say he is accused of sexual assault. Chinmoy Das was addressing provocative political rallies. considered as supporter of Sheikh Hasina, came in notice But the truth is that the way Chinmoy was arrested, the way a flimsy case was made about saffron flag, not of sexual assault, not of political conspiracy, where a loose case of sedition was made on Chinmoy that has increased Chinmoy's popularity And this image is that the government of Muhammad Yunus is after Hindus. On top of that, not letting any lawyer represent him, denying bail, This is a sign that Bangladesh does not want fair play. The situation is that the US has also told Bangladesh that Chinmoy Das should get a fair hearing. On the other hand, outrage in Bangladesh that supporters of Chinmoy killed a Muslim lawyer outside the court and it is being said that minorities are in danger... they cannot accept Not only in Bangladesh, people have also started to take to the streets in India. In Kolkata and Tripura, we saw intense protests last week led by local Hindu organizations. In Tripura, it escalated and people attacked the Bangladeshi diplomatic mission. The organization which attacked the mission is one week old organization It is considered a planned conspiracy and the Indian envoy was summoned to Dhaka. After this, India has also increased the safety of Bangladeshi missions. Second attack is a verbal attack. Former Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina made a public commentary She claims that Hindus are undergoing genocide in Bangladesh The doubt in the media changed to belief that Hasina is planning to return to power from India. But there is a common sentiment in Bangladesh that Hasina should be dragged to the International Court. If you compare Indian and Bangladeshi media reports, you will see the difference of the sky and the earth. The media there is saying that communal harmony is still intact in Bangladesh, no targeted planned persecution is taking place, and the country is just looking forward to peace and development. All the people we have spoken to in Bangladesh, they clearly say that Bangladesh is not becoming Pakistan. All the communities live together here and it is true that some incidents have been amplified. But there is no hatred against Hindus and Indian citizens in Bangladesh. There is a lot of hatred, but against the Government of India, against this big brother attitude, against the intervention in Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina has been supported so much in the last 15 years... against that. Now, prominent Bangladeshi media outlets have started a campaign to counter Indian misinformation Top news outlets are releasing editorials every day, how Indian media is exaggerating the situation of minorities in India. Along with that, comments were made by Bangladesh about minority treatment in India But how did the doubt and hatred between India and Bangladesh reach here? This is a result of a long process, so listen and understand carefully India and Bangladesh have been allies for more than 50 years In fact, India and Bangladesh have been friends before the independence of Bangladesh. The friendship became official after liberation war in 1971 and Bangladesh independence India becomes the first country to recognize Bangladesh and establish formal relations with it. In the coming years, India actively helps in the security and development of Bangladesh. India is the largest trading partner of Bangladesh today Bilateral trade has reached up to 16 billion dollars. India has played a significant role in the development of Bangladesh's infrastructure. India-Bangladesh friendship pipeline is a prominent example of India-Bangladesh partnership. which supplies petroleum products from Siliguri to Parbatipur This project helps to fulfil the energy needs of Bangladesh The regional trade has been streamlined from the development projects of Chittagong and Mongla ports. Apart from the economy, India has come first in every instance to help Bangladesh in humanitarian crisis 2007 cyclone, 2020 Amphan, India has helped Bangladesh in every instance India has also shared essential medical supplies during covid Indian media reported this. It is good that it should be reported. But apart from this context, what is not shown to you in the media, especially in the Indian media, is India's alleged intervention in Bangladesh's internal affairs. Especially in the last few years. And whether you believe it or not, this version is widely reported in Bangladesh. People there discuss it a lot. And it is very important to understand this. The biggest intervention of India is Sheikh Hasina. Yes, this is not a secret how Sheikh Hasina is so close to Indian Government. For years, for India and Government, Sheikh Hasina has been a good news. Minority safety, controlling illegal migration, cross border insurgents, Sheikh Hasina has delivered India on all fronts. But in return, Sheikh Hasina has been good news from strategic point But in return, what she has given back to India, Bangladeshis have seen... they could not say much because it was not allowed in her rule. But all these things have become a cause of anger in the last few years. Number 1. Water sharing disputes. Especially if we talk about Ganga and Teesta rivers, they have made Hasina a little too pro-India in the eyes of the people. Number 2. If you take the example of Farakka Barrage where Bangladesh says that their irrigation and livelihood are at a loss because India misuses its advantage as it is upstream 3. Trade relations have also become a contentious point. India is the largest trading partner of Bangladesh. But Bangladesh's trade deficit has reached around $10 billion. Bangladeshi manufacturers say that Indian products hurt their business and that India does not give the tariff benefits to Bangladesh 4. Apart from these headline points of contention, there has always been a narrative of Indian government spies in Bangladesh Many reports claim that India's RAW is very active in Bangladesh and there it also affects political decisions. At least if you take 2009's instance, it is a hot topic. When India was ready for armed intervention in Bangladesh, when Sheikh Hasina was facing an internal mutiny, her life was in danger, then it is believed that Indian forces had already entered Bangladesh to escort Sheikh Hasina. There has been no evidence of direct political intervention till date but there has always been a suspicion, a doubt, especially about India's RAW. But people believe that when Sheikh Hasina was arresting and silencing her own opposition BNP and Jamaat leaders, and rigging elections one after the other, India did not call out despite being a democracy. This is seen as an implicit support of India in Bangladesh. India did not say anything when democracy was being suppressed in Bangladesh. So, the reason for anti-India sentiment in Bangladesh is quite layered. It has historical grievances, economic disparities, political interference, prominent factors. But Modi govt's support for Sheikh Hasina is backfiring. India has been using Hasina for its benefit. There is no debate on this in Bangladesh. India government has not established relations with other parties. It has focused on Hasina. Now, when she was removed after thousands of deaths, student protests, where does she get shelter? In India. It is important to understand this For the youth of Bangladesh, the 65% population there, she is the number one criminal. The new generation there, they have seen only the government of Sheikh Hasina. So, the root of all the problems, the reason for all the problems is Sheikh Hasina They have not seen any other rule. Now, when India is giving her refuge, then naturally India is seen in Bangladesh with a lot of suspicion Here, for India, giving political asylum to our ally is not a new thing. For us, this is a very normal thing Remember, Nehru had given refuge to Dalai Lama and Tibetans from China. This is one of the reasons for the 1962 war when China was angry that India saved Dalai Lama. But now India has to ask itself, what will India gain from making friends with a bygone era, disgraced political leader? What is important for India today? Understanding the new regime after a youth led revolution? This one question will decide the future relationship between India and Bangladesh. The problem is that there is still an understanding in Bangladesh that India is not only giving Hasina an asylum. But is trying to discredit the government. Independent journalists of Bangladesh believe that the anti-Hindu hate that the Indian foreign ministry is slamming Bangladesh for the news that Indian media is spreading about genocide, will continue to create tension between the two countries. We have been hearing this since 4 months and genocide is not a light word - it is talk of thousands of deaths So the question is, if Hindus are in danger, if we assume that large scale violence is taking place, deaths are taking place, then is there no better option than shouting in the media? A superpower like India? And there is no other way? To convince the government of Bangladesh to save the lives of Hindus. It is being a post-revolution, a nation rebuilding. There is no debate about economic crisis. There is no debate about political upheaval. India can open a credit line of billions of dollars. It can give trade concession. It can sponsor infrastructure projects. There are hundreds of such areas which can be offered to the government to guarantee the protection of minorities I have faith in Indian diplomats it can be done For example, Maldives' Mohamed Muizzu, who launched a campaign India out to get to power. Indian media boycotted Maldives, Maldives expelling Indian troops, Maldives is going to make a deal with China. We have covered all these news. Indian diplomats do back-channel talks, provide economic assistance and put Muizzu on our side In a few months, the man who was shouting against India. He is visiting India. Modi and Muizzu are hugging. Insta Reels are also being made in Maldives. Boycott is over. What do you know? What was done in the background? Do you know anything? I don't know. All we know is that heart was changed from economic assistance Qatar. Our 7 former Navy personnel were trapped in a spying case in Qatar. They were sentenced to death. Then we came to know that they came back to India after months. You have no idea what was played in the background, what was the give and take. Now we cannot do the same with the Muhammad Yunus government? Bangladesh's interim government is not even anti-India like Muizzu Yunus has said that revolution will fail if minorities are attacked. This has to be solidified . India has already proposed a comprehensive economic partnership agreement. It is time to expedite such agreements. Positive proposal is necessary. Now, you can say that Bangladesh is not agreeing. Bangladesh is acting immaturely. Let's agree to what you say. Who is the mature democracy here? Bangladesh or India? Don't get me wrong. There is no debate in this that Bangladesh is going through instability today But if Godi media and trolls will keep running their agenda like this, then the Hindus will be in danger. Take the guarantee of this. There is no doubt that relations between India and Bangladesh are facing a new complexity. People are emotionally charged and sentiments of politicians are giving more air to this acrimony Statements on social media leading to more violence. Bangladesh also re-examined the MOUs and agreements with India Power imports have already been halved from Adani. Relations with Pakistan are also being improved. To revive SAARC. Now, this close relationship with China and Pakistan will become a matter of concern for India. Still, border trade is still at its usual pace, which has been a hopeful element in relations. Geographically, both countries are essential for each other, there is no debate on this. Bangladesh is India's largest trading partner in South Asia, and India is Bangladesh's second largest partner after China. Therefore, an essential food item, raw material that we supply, the garment industry that we support The same industry which contributes 11% GDP and 80% export of Bangladesh is a symbiotic relationship between the two countries. Now, there is going to be a foreign secretary level meeting between the two countries which can give us a chance to smoothen the relations. But, irresponsible media commentary has tried to make relations a zero-sum game. That attempt should not be successful. Both the countries should be extremely cautious. Especially when Bangladesh is trying to move towards democracy through institutional reforms. India's support is crucial in this rebuilding effort. India should keep its security interests in mind and ensure that the new government of Bangladesh does not get influenced by Pakistan or China That's why, at such times, publicly shaming your neighbor, playing a troll game is not right. Right now, it is necessary to sit privately, discuss and explain. But this will only be possible, let me clear this point as well, when India will accept that the time of Hasina's rule has passed, you will have to make contact with the existing parties, and you will have to remove the perception of interference in Bangladesh. Because if China interferes at this time, we will not understand what has happened, as it has happened with Nepal. In South Asia, we have already become a friendless country. We have made a whole episode on this It is necessary that we rekindle our old friendship with Bangladesh For the security of the country, for the security of Hindus