- Marriage bed. What is allowed? What is not? What is okay to do? Is it okay do this or Warning! This video is not This is going to be and please be careful if you are watching this or in the house. Hebrews 13:4 says: The Greek word here in this exact form four and it means So what is not okay? What is Let's look at four things that Number one is adultery. Now obviously, we know Matthew 19:9, indicate that adultery is a sin. We see this in the Spouse swapping They have T.V. shows, they have practices today is portrayed as good. We are experimenting. something different, and the So adultery is The second thing that's and it's a sin is threesomes. Threesomes is when more in sexual intercourse. And it's done with permission People are okay doing that. And some people say that hey, we're are all on the same boat. Some people even &quot;Well, look, Jacob had two Well, not really. Yes, polygamy was permitted God's perfect will because Jesus divorce and polygamy it was not there and therefore but it was allowed for that But Jacob was not sleeping at the same time. On the opposite, they would and sleep with Leah and spend the And so, we don't see one Jacob slept with both of And that is wrong and the Bible condemns that. The third thing is virtual Bringing porn into your marriage is going to destroy your marriage. I've know people who have and they brought porn I guess okay watching porn. Usually one person is kind is like super fired up Most of the marriages if they did not repent, You are inviting demons and plus it's so unfair for because pornography is It takes days to make and most of those They are using drugs that they are in. And afterwards a lot of It really takes a There is so much And if you watch the quite few testimonies and they testify of how dark And so, when you which is a place of drugs, which is a place of and you bring that thinking that's all we need, very soon those spirits that are and that industry will come and they will destroy or your sexual life to the ground. Number four is rape. So we've mentioned watching porn, and rape. Colossians 3:19, So the problem with in my pastoral work I where some spouses, men in because of 1 Corinthians 7:1-5, therefore I am entitled, and I could force But-- that's first all, and taking it out of context. Rape is all non-consensual sex Most people people think So if I have non-consensual but if I am married to They owe me. Are you? Is it yours or does Are you simply claiming what's Rape is non-consensual Forcing it and demanding in 1 Corinthians 7 1 Corinthians 7 is talking Serving the other person in sex. Not demanding and not So if you are using that or demanding or you are entitled as a man, you are and that's not a Because in that verse it's not making them your slave. Now what about what's So we've mentioned some things but now let's look at some is it okay or is it not okay? Things like oral sex, sex toys. So here are concerning bring first of all like a each couple should sex toys or different Because there is really no one even though I know some against oral sex or &quot;Hey, it's okay to have Some people are against sex &quot;Oh, it's okay to And I'm going to touch on but here are the three you can determine if The first question you should Is it prohibited in the Scripture? Because if it's not you The second question that we Is this harming me, or is Now, I get these questions Apostle Paul, So the first questions Is the Bible against it? If the Bible is silent, Number two, is this Like is there physical And is this going to bring or you are going to Like, you are going to drift apart. And then third one, this is the biggest deal a lot of couples ask about or positions. Is the other spouse Is there mutual consent? Is this spouse forced into If that's the case Even if the Bible even if you're like, but the other spouse the other spouse is then it's not okay So if you can't deprive without consent, you need in this particular way that with your spouse's And if they are not you can't force it. Now few thoughts on oral sex. The Bible does not condemn We don't see strong Outside of marriage, oral And so, it's never supposed to actually having intercourse Sometimes people are like, No! You are committing with your girlfriend or Now within marriage oral there is mutual consent. In fact, some people go as far in the Bible that indicate in Song of Solomon. where the fruit represents and in Song of Solomon 4:16 throughout the Book of or is used for vagina. And so, if you read those the implication that this But again, each marriage depending on what each When it comes to oral sex, because usually it's &quot;Yeah, I want to do it. But are those desires because you watched pornography? Or they are just godly in an intimate way? And a lot of times in the area feels very grossed because of the abuse or where the idea of sex in I remember I heard a testimony actually he's still alive. and he claimed that he has And they have 17 kids. I don't know how they did And some of the religious very very strict idea on God is there watching or like come on, get You know, move on with your life. But God created sex and and enjoy it and have and get to know each other that does not bring another whether virtually or physically. fantasies also about and as long as there And so it will depend on each couple and it's a liberty that each There is really no when it comes to oral sex. Now sex toys. And I reached out to our kind of asked them of I think that people don't need but I'm going to read It's a conversation that they The same thing as can people It's something that And so I think that when it comes to sex toy even though the Bible does against it or for it, I think or if you can no longer satisfy a toy now, then you really are foxes in your vineyard. And you should examine what and what's happening with Because sex is not really-- of what's happening It's not necessarily where it makes your marriage, as much as it reveals if or is broken. So my stance on this should abstain from it. Anal sex. I know that in our culture and it's something that especially because of in our culture. Now I want to mention what it's not. Some people misuse the to say that anal sex is bad I think anal sex is you should practice it but So let me read to you I honestly agree with that. And so I think that it's-- that it's wrong but I do and I think the couple And those ones who are some of this little craziness from pornography or because a lot of it is that can affect and give you you should have or explore The more your eyes are pure, the more the pleasure will And you don't need to do or from the practices or practice all of this I hope that this I do know that this If some of you are going it's completely fine but I do brave to mention or I was kind of hesitant about it. and also had our marriage my notes as well so that I could There is a book I read after I by Kevin Leman. I think that It deals with sexual relationship He is a Christian guy. Even though I don't but it also brought and we even recommend And so that's something that I God bless you. Thank you I'm not going to ask you to because I know it could be let me know what you think. But let's be polite and nice. because I opened up these So be kind. Okay? Thank you, and until next video.