Transcriber: Madina Juarez Thanks, Brian. I am at the National Institute on Aging, people are getting older, advances in cancer research, many people who would have died are living into the danger zone It's projected that by 2050, with Alzheimer's disease It's 5 million today, In my lab, we use a number that are relevant to age-related We have mice that accumulate and they have learning We have mice that have damage that control body movements-- And we also have models of stroke, and cause of death. Well, it has been known for a long time And, in rats and mice one can increase We started looking at the effects in the context of age-related and found that we could slow down, the abnormal accumulation of amyloid, in the Alzheimer's and Parkinson's myel Now, there's a number of ways You can simply eat less at each meal, or you can do what we call So, reduce the frequency of the meals. And, what I am going to tell you today is that fasting does good things In the animals we have insight into that are occurring in the brain why fasting is good for the brain. But I am going to start out and talk a little bit that fasting is good for the brain, and also evolutionary prospective on why fasting might be good OK. So everybody knows people will fast periodically. Down through history many famous people with good brains have fasted regularly. Up on the top here is a quote from Plato, he fasted for greater physical There are some quotes there, including one from about 6,000 years ago, an Egyptian pyramid inscription that says, &quot;Humans live on one-quarter on the other three-quarters live their doctors.&quot; And in this country, as you know, It's not only a risk factor for certain cancers, that it's also a risk factor and possibly Alzheimer's disease. In the lower right, written over a hundred years ago Many of you may know Upton Sinclair a book on meatpacking industry, that you can find in the full text online, In that book he interviewes 250 people and went on fast and except in a handful of cases, their health condition improved. OK, before I focus on the brain, I just want to point out that there is evidence but from humans that fasting It will reduce inflammation, it will reduce oxidative stress and one thing that happens when you fast, when you eat three meals a day, so that you start burning fats. Every time you eat a meal and it's stored in the form of glycogen-- and it's always tapped into first. And it takes about 10 to 12 hours in your liver. So, if you eat three meals a day in your liver, although if you exercise And once you deplete then you start burning fats, and you produce It turns out ketone bodies and I'll talk about that in a minute. Now, we've done a lot of work on animals in the 90s, between 15 and 20 years ago, showing that intermittent fasting was then we started collaborating did some human studies some that were shown on the last slide. And then a producer at the BBC made a program on intermittent fasting it's been aired on PBS. He wrote a book called &quot;The Fast Diet&quot;. And just in the last two years on intermittent fasting for health, and it's becoming what, I think-- but hopefully people find some of these-- What do I mean by intermittent fasting, There's a lot of variations, One sort-- a harsh one is And in our human studies we've been doing where 2 days a week the other 5 days you eat normally. Eat healthy if you can. In this book called &quot;The 8-Hour Diet&quot; the time window that you eat each day it'll have health benefits, again, that's long enough OK, why does fasting bolster brain power? During development of your brain, neurons are generated from stem cells. They grow out their axons and dendrites, synapses, and communicate with each other. During aging, many people-- they stay cognitively intact, whereas, unfortunately, We think the reason, is fasting is a challenge to your brain, and your brain responds to that challenge of not having food by activating that help your brain cope with stress, Does this make sense Anything we talk about in biology, &quot;Why is it that way? Why when we take animals and put them are their neurons protected, in mice, Why do they perform better It amazes. Well, if you're hungry you better figure out how to find food. You don't want your brain to shut down And, in fact, that's what we find Nerve cell circuits are more active. Some of the changes in the brain also occur with vigorous exercise. Now, most people, and Jeff this morning on showing the benefits I think you probably found So, when we start looking at what are the neurochemical changes They are very similar to exercise. Now on this slide, the third boy on the right running, You can tell by the faces of the 3 kids-- that's a challenge, right? They are probably saying I used to run races myself, &quot;Why am I doing this?&quot; However, when they get done with the race, During the cross-country season It's very obvious our son's mood On the right, my daughter is in the white. Her mood was better during Why is that? Exercise and intermittent fasting in the brain that are called We discovered this many years ago, in Colorado in 1980s. We found that these neurotrophic factors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, promote the connection of neurons, OK, so here is the idea: Challenges to you brain, vigorous exercise, hopefully if you haven't fallen asleep, When this happens, levels of neurotrophic factors That promotes the growth of the neurons, the formation and strengthening Also shown in the lower left, exercise and intermittent fasting, can increase the production at least in one region of your brain, which is shown here. I mentioned ketones, and that happens during fasting. The Romans discovered ketones they haven't taken any chemistry course, People with epileptic seizures back then, they thought they were possessed And they found if they take these people and don't feed them, What's happening is: ketones go up, and it's well known that and in fact, ketogenic diets patients with severe epilepsy. We are doing my work in my lab trying to understand One reason is they provide they boost the energy levels Recently we discovered that fasting, by increasing BDNF levels in the brain, can increase the number of mitochondria in your nerve cells. And I am not going to go but the mechanism is very similar where by exercising your muscles in your muscles. The fasting is a mild energetic stress, by increasing mitochondria, and in this paper cited down here, we recently showed that by increasing the number it can increase the ability of the neurons and thereby increase In addition to the increasing and increasing neuronal bioenergetics, we've found that intermittent fasting will enhance the ability so right now-- and also probably exercise, and also intellectual challenges. And again, what's happening in this case exercising your neurons, it causes a mild oxidative stress, and at the same time the cells are enhancing their ability Why is it that the normal diet It isn't that it's the healthiest way, and that's my opinion, but I think There are a lot of pressures There's a lot of money involved. The food industry, from skipping breakfast like I did today? No, they are going to lose money. If people fast the food industry What about the pharmaceutical industries? What if people do and exercise periodically, Is the pharmaceutical industry So, one challenge for a society, and this is one of the purposes is that communication is the way People understanding what they can do and then taking action, So, I would urge you to communicate, that there are ways for people and maybe we can do this even with-- Of course, I am working for NIH, we are using your tax payer's money We don't have a profit motive. So, really one of the main reasons in things like intermittent fasting, trying to understand what's happening in the brain. This is research that isn't commonly done, and it's not done at all and it's not done so much. So, I am going to end with this slide. And thank you very much And try it out, you can just play around and you may find... What we found in our human studies if you've never exercised before, you are not going to feel good. If you eat 3 meals a day, and all of a sudden that day you are going to feel irritable, But it turns out if you can maybe one day a week for a month, you get used to it, many people can adapt and you'll find that on the days you are more productive. (Applause)