Hey Everyone. Just letting you Merch at the Merch store. More So you've decided to jump into a black hole. Good can sail through the event horizon without harm hole before you're annihilated by the central quite a few physicists believe that the in fundamental physics generated by black screens of extreme energy that prevent horizon. Sounds outlandish? Welcome many of our most brilliant physicists take Einstein's general theory of relativity has been of space and time and gravity and its crazy from time dilation to black holes to gravitational Einstein called his happiest thought--that there of floating you have when falling and the gravitational fields. All of general relativity its logical conclusions, plus the thing about the why it makes physicists very sceptical when a new if the alternative to violating equivalence is In recent episodes, we saw how the prospect of quantum information violates something called mechanics as the equivalence principle holes both swallow quantum information and also then the same bit of quantum info is in two you don't let quantum information fall then you violate the equivalence principle, special or weird should happen to anything as that horizon is large enough so This catch-22--violate unitarity information paradox. One way around this as long as there's no observer--no conceivable of the information. Now this is black hole on the topic we followed the adventures of reality and observe both the swallowed and too smart for them--it seemed impossible for For a while, this black hole complementarity was paradox, but it turns out it's not as neat a early Alice and Bob expeditions were conceived, found a way to outsmart reality after all. a way to detect quantum cloning, but also screen of extreme energy that prevents anyone This final proposal saves unitarity, but violates physicists despise the idea. And yet some firewall is so robust that we need to seriously So how did we end up in this unfortunate to understand that we need to go back to the in terms of not just quantum information, but also a pair of quantum objects are correlated such that the information about their individual multiple states at once. But this superposition of such that the measurement of one defines the this crazy stuff if you want to dig into that entanglement is ubiquitous and the information of entanglement. That's why entanglement So let's look at entanglement in black holes. As the finding by Steven Hawking and Jacob Bekenstein the first place. Entropy is basically a measure that we can't access. Black hole entropy grows that fell in is lost to us. Most physicists think on the horizon and then must escape as Hawking blink out of existence when that same Hawking The high entropy at the horizon means that highly entangled with each other--the quantum state is scrambled across the horizon. radiation leaks out it contains almost no because that information is spread across its But as more and more particles leave, we can material that orginally fell in could, in the Hawking radiation. That really only Hawking radiation are no longer exclusively but rather with their entangled There's a very specific transition point when entangled with qubits in the expanding cloud of the entanglement between the black hole and it happens when around half the although in terms of time it's about 90% of the the Page time, after Don Page who figured out how must first rise as information and becomes increasingly possible to find and So let's consider a single qubit that's the Page time. It's entangled with a It now wants to join its quantum sibling So a popular way to describe in the vacuum of space, pairs of matter and and vanishing. If this happens at an event leaving the other free to escape and effectively more precise way to describe this is in terms an episode on this. We can describe the vacuum of negative frequency modes of the quantum fields in fields that cancel each other out perfectly. and the non-perfect cancelling leads to a excited states, and this manifests as particles--of Hawking radiation, we have one thing being And listen, because this is very important--these entangled with each other. In fact it's been together by the entanglement between these of adjacent fluctuations is fundamental. In fact, is no space. That's something we'll come back OK, so back to our qubit sitting at the horizon distant qubit of Hawking radiation, but adjacent qubit just below the horizon. particle or mode that it can sacrifice to qubit must be entangled twice--with both the You might say it's quite promiscuous and quantum mechanics does have we know that entanglement has to be monogamous. qubits are maximally entangled with each other with a third qubit outside this pair. Monogamy of theorem, and absolutely violates If we want to avoid over-entangling our black entanglements. Because the entanglement over the to preserve, it's probably safer to break the horizon. Unfortunately there are dire consequences entanglement. You can calculate the amount of swallowed and radiated particles at the horizon. for all of the Hawking radiation to break its would need to be a screen of energy just above the that horizon without being completely thermalized. Incidentally, the firewall solves the it breaks the entanglement between the Hawking so monogamy of entanglement is saved. And it also hole by turning them to plasma. That makes it same qubit both inside and outside the black hole. observer--the extreme gravitational redshift Planck length above the horizon would turn that OK, so firewalls sound cool and into the black hole. Unfortunately, the violates the sacred idea we started More formally, the equivalence principle do on the local patch of spacetime to distinguish or between standing still against a g-force versus acceleration absent So, if Alice is in freefall towards an event she should measure a quantum vacuum consistent revealing the location of the event horizon. But Alice that the vacuum is massively altered The black hole firewall paradox is a refinement called the AMPS paradox after the physicists Donald Marolf, Joseph Polchinski, and James Sully. still divided on this--the main point of the information paradox is still a paradox. In hole complementarity. As we saw in our episode problem of quantum cloning by noting that no But the firewall paradox grants a way to very close to the event horizon to see if equivalence principle is violated. That's bad. entanglement must exist across the event that quantum entanglement also exists between revealing that monogamy of entanglement is So the power of the firewall argument exterior and interior of the black hole the black hole. That seems to defeat the even if this complementarity seems If firewalls do exist, then it's not just it means the black hole interior may not the vacuum modes across the horizon is the fabric of space itself. In a regular at the central singularity. If firewalls expanded to the event horizon, and that there's So, what's it all mean? Well this is not a argue that breaking the equivalence principle and so favour the firewall. But breaking would prefer a solution which doesn't violate and Raphael Bousso, who both point to other break unitarity or the equivalence principle, to describe the happenings above the event that the quantum field theory we're and Hawking radiation break down. But this in situations that are really no more extreme There are some other pretty funky notions. For a scheme to reframe quantum field theory with which enables the information swallowed by the the horizon qubit. This avoids the need to break full theory of quantum gravity will help us after all. For example, fuzzballs of string balls of elementary strings below the event quantum information from below the horizon back Long story short is that the black hole firewall about black holes need to be cleaned up. consistency of our best theories of nature is the unite quantum mechanics and general relativity. explore soon--which is to an understanding of and how, if we unstitch that entanglement, Twelve years ago on July 4th, 2012 the ATLAS of a new particle to a packed auditorium Boson - the particle that makes the existence possible. To celebrate the fireworks of that edition UV glow print Higgs T-Shirt &amp; Hoodie. so after being out in the sun they'll begin we only are able to print a limited number. If then you'll need to put your order in by to check them out. There's a