We're going to look at five practical ways you now. And best of all, most of these are completely extract text, get feedback, and so much going to look at how AI can help you save time we all spend far too much time there. Here I am is one place where AI can help you save time and summarize messages for you, but you can also Here at the very top, I have an email from Patti I've read through the message and it looks like that, but I also want to request some time off right over here, let's first copy this message. copy, and then you can head to your AI tool Chat GPT. They all work fairly similarly. Here I We can now start having a conversation with the I'll say, &quot;Can you respond to the following And here it comes back and says, &quot;Please provide any specific points you'd like me to include in how I want to respond. So down below in the chat, the following points in the response. Say that take some days off during the week to make up for I'm in support and excited about completing team player. Now, at least for me, it's a lot but then crafting it into a well-written email I'll insert a new line. And over here, let's now here, I'll insert another new line. And now I can Patti. So now the AI has context of what the respond. And now it'll take all of this let's now send this to the AI. And look at this, to Patti. And what's great is it incorporated all So right here, it says to balance the extra I will take a few days off during the week to great thing is it's using all of your high-level in a very effective way. This brings us to number and it does a surprisingly good job. Here I am with many of the other AI chat bots. Down below, into ChatGPT, and then you can have the AI analyze data in from OneDrive, or here, Google Drive, or I'll click on this and this opens up the file that I would like to have the AI help me analyze. do it with Google Sheets, or maybe you just have I'll double click on this file. Before we have the and you can have a quick preview of the data. This have customers, we have order IDs, the product was sold, and the revenue and the cost. Now of formulas and functions, and also use pivot tables if maybe ChatGPT can help us with this. Here I am about this document, and this works so well. Down question, how many units did we sell in 2022? Over it now pulls in all of my data. And up above, I that spreadsheet. Right down here, I also we sold a total of 1.379 million units. Let's Here in Excel, I've highlighted all of my units million. So that is spot on. Let's now jump right up above where we have the data table, here data sits alongside the chat interface. Now, in sheet, and then I can ask questions about those I want to know what was the most popular product column. So now the AI knows that I'm going to ask in the chat interface, now I can ask my question, see what it comes back with. And here it comes a total of 583,000 units sold. Now, what's really so let's say I want to know the median or the mean cells, and then I could ask my question specific of ChatGPT continue advancing and it's actually not just limited to text responses. You can also let me ask the question, can you turn this into a And look at that it is now generated a and I can hover over any of the slices to see how I could see we sold chocolate chip the most out of they are the best cookies. Up on top, I if I click on these sliders, I can modify all the And of course, I could also download this chart. with data using AI, be sure to check out this along with analyzing data, you can also analyze PDF, a text file, or even a PNG. One of my in school. You can upload your textbook and then am back in ChatGPT, and let's say that you're the book Romeo and Juliet. Down below, I'll click from your computer. Now this book is currently text for this entire play. I'll click on that and now the really neat thing is I can ask questions I want to know how did Romeo meet Juliet? And over It looked through and analyzed all the text, and Juliet at the masquerade ball, and then it also using this with your say chemistry textbook, or report from a company. You could ask all sorts limited to simple questions like how did Romeo ask a question like, how does it mock traditional is the type of question you might get on say an and it analyzes and gives me a very thorough You can also use this for things like contracts, about it. Like, should I be concerned about any document to ask questions about it, you can turn don't have to re-upload it every time you want to out the video right up above and I'll show you ChatGPT also has an understanding of what's in photo, you can ask really interesting questions. and I'm going to upload a photo from my computer. cookies. I'll click on that and then click on what I really want to know is how do I make them? how do I make these? Can you generate a recipe? send that through to the AI. Let's now scroll back of chocolate chip cookies and my prompt. How do I I never mentioned what type of cookies these were. it correctly identifies that these are classic what they are, it comes back and provides me all is so impressive. Number four, you can use AI to Back in ChatGPT, you guessed it, let's click computer. Here I have a whiteboard image from a I'll click on open. Now it's nice having a picture That way I could search against it and I could I'll type in my message. Can you transcribe the through to see what it comes back with. Here with just handwriting. And look at that. It's able all of the text. So up here you see it says sign questions or ask Q. Here we see ask Q. Then we look at that. It even understands the hierarchy dashboard and then that's broken up into plans, and media and all of the sub items. That makes five. You can get feedback from AI on all of your always willing to review your work and gives friends and family or even coworkers to give you is willing to give you that feedback. Down below, click on upload from computer. And here I have two Cookie Company and I'm not quite sure which one open. It's now uploaded those two images and I can what do you think about these logos? Which one cookie company? And then I gave a little bit mostly children, families, and young adults. Let's if I scroll up, here I can see the two different kind of a nice clean logo. And over here we the Kevin Cookie Company. And look at this, here it goes through and analyzes their strengths. So, but it also has weaknesses. It's not as playful or as much. If I scroll down here, we see logo it's more playful and also a friendly design professional. And then here it even comes back a better match for the target audience. And here thorough feedback and you'd be hard pressed to you that level of feedback on your work. I also you write. Chances are it'll have some really good ultimately make your communication better. For but could I have made it better? So down below, I this intro for a YouTube video? I'll insert a that I used in this video and I'm sure it'll come the AI. And if I scroll up right up above, here I but it does recommend some enhancements. And I don't need to keep all of it, but there are what I had in this video. And down below, it also Once again, I recommend doing this with all your writing. We've now looked at all the practical you one more that is so much fun. Head to the music. You can generate your very own AI music. option that says create. Within the create screen, and then you could click on create. But if you top, you have something called custom mode. Let's in your very own lyrics that it'll use as part of maybe you have a song in mind that you would like And of course, it's all about the Kevin Cookie jingle. Right down below, you could also indicate singing in this song, so I'll leave this toggled style of music. Now this is for cookie company, cheerful, and let's also have a fast tempo. These And down below, we could also give it a title. And and let's go with jingle. Then down at the bottom, it's now generated two different variations of And then down below, we can preview how That turned out so well. And look at that. That AI. And to be fair, it won't be winning watch more videos like this one, please consider