Hello, I'm Jeffrey Apart, the UX and for web professionals. And I'm here today with Mr. of Design for Cognitive Bias. Hi, David. Hi. Thanks for having me. A pleasure. And David will be speaking at 2020, which is three days and UX, taking place And David, your is titled &quot;Design Yes. So, first off, talking about-- the the designers? All of the above. In fact, you just listed So we talk about and how design or content or sometimes use them for good. We're going to talk about our biases and how can help us communicate And then finally, and we're going to talk which are really the most and how to create processes What is bias, and So bias is just a fancy word for to get through the day. We have to make something like Even right now, I'm about how fast to talk, and what to do with my hands. And if I thought carefully of those decisions, I'd So it's a good thing our lives are on autopilot. But every now and then, those And we call those errors biases. OK, but users are [LAUGHS] If only. I call it the myth Users are making 95% below the threshold of So they're making aware that they've made their mind kind of tricks were being rational all along. So when we're are influencing, in part, that don't even realize they're gives us a really to make sure we're So I get bias, like like other groups of people, But if I'm a user, filling how does bias even-- when I'm not looking or being asked to make guesses how does bias even enter Sure. So let's say you're a going through a to figure out who you should You may be a person who is very conscious and voted for Hillary, But if you see a name at doesn't fit what your pattern in a lot of cases is you might start to look more at that LinkedIn page, And we've seen this in experiments with The one with the male And again, it's not because men are better at this job. But you have a built up your whole life. So having that name at or at the top of that LinkedIn And we have to ask ourselves, is that design choice, helping Or is it in fact getting or making a good decision? So then we start to explore. And maybe we remove the name. Maybe we remove the name of or other things that might and focus in on just the if you think about it, is But there's a bias What about, say, is a web developer for or a designer at a university. Designing for cognitive bias-- how does that fit Sorry, say that one more time. OK, so you're talking about a reacts to, like, an and goes unconsciously going to hire that think they're liberal. OK, that's one example. But I'm talking buying a cheese grater or someone's making a decision And it doesn't-- to, like, looking at two different-- what do you call it-- classes that don't really average? Oh, like electives? Yeah, they're looking at How does bias enter So one of the things to get our head around is as neutral design. So something, whether let's say it's three different How I have designed the order in which I is going to influence There is a bias called where the first thing tend to be more memorable So even if I'm not to influence your decision, at that site, are going and your ways of interpreting So again, it's on me to make I'm at least aware bringing to that experience be careful about which and make sure that is an undue emphasis on that thing. In fact, Amazon dealt with their the most recent And people would assume simply because it was first. But it was really just And so they eventually where it's the most right next to the most recent-- or no, sorry, the most helpfulness-- the most next to the most helpful equal visual weight, which to give them equal So it's those kinds of-- So it feels balanced. Yeah, exactly. It's as if you had a consultant, going, well, cleaner. But the cost for the Exactly Yeah, OK. What about stakeholder bias? How do we deal with it? Not that you can do this all here, but just generally, like stakeholder bias? And how do you get a to let you be anti-bias Or do you not even tell them So the whole third really tries to dig And just to give you your stakeholders have just just as many biases And so one of those, working at a very is risk aversion And loss aversion is where to lose $10, let's say, as We're much more emotional So ironically, to help someone who is risk it's actually about the downside of So if someone is and they're just sticking with rather than tell them how great it can actually be more if we stick with the CMS, are going to quit. Here's how much money Here's how much it's people to replace those people. And that apocalyptic more motivating feeling risk-averse then telling That makes sense. In my own experience, Well, I'd like to, I would try to get a client for its own sake, because don't you? You want to welcome An inclusive message move people the same sued if we don't improve it. Yeah. Unfortunately, it's Like, what's our risk? We don't want bad PR. We don't want bad news We don't want a lawsuit So yeah, I can see that. I can see that fear can, unfortunately, So I imagine your talk is and tips. What are some surprises be expecting in your talk? What are some surprises we may Oh, let's see. Well, the spoiler is a talk about design ethics. I'm going to sit with tales of weird human the brain works that But at the end of it, I'm going by the way, all of need to seriously talk we need to take seriously the Justice Network, who are center the most vulnerable. Like you think I'm here some cool mind tricks. And I am. But all of that builds Because we actually have this on our users, we need to And we need rules, and Hippocratic oaths, other dangerous over hundreds of it wrong to be more safe So that, I'd say, It's like, gotcha! It's actually design ethics. [LAUGHS] That's cool. And we're going to have or that touch on ethics. Because I think at this I mean, I was euphoric when I thought, oh, and it's going to and poverty, unemployed And now we know that or a negative side to tech. And we have to be aware our intentions are. We have to be super mindful. So I think there's a lot of right now. Earlier today, I was in an HR as well. And just like avoiding for bias, and bias and hiring-- everybody's very aware of it I think this topic's I think when you tried to talk which you probably did, listening as hard as Yeah, that's when I started giving this talk And it was catching fire. But obviously, this this has been top of And we at A Book kind of fast-tracked get this thing out even sooner. Because we wanted to had this as a part You also have a Yes. And what's that about? Yeah, so part of the to writing this book called The Cognitive I closed out earlier this year. But I'm bringing it back to sort But I really would just per episode and just to and then move on People can find that and, like-- It's in all of the If you just Google it, you'll to download it. OK, so before the show people can listen to The They can buy designing Design for Cognitive Bias, yeah. Right. Why wasn't the book Against Cognitive Bias?&quot; No, so you know where A good friend of mine who literally, in 2000, wrote There yo ugo. --design for community. Friend of mine too. what a small world. That's awesome. Yeah, and so that kind of Like, that's my bias, cool to call books And there's been a handful So really, honestly, Like even when I I'm like, how about &quot;Design Yeah. And also, honestly, because right? There are some biases that can There are certain biases that And so, if your message is if you have something to make that more That's for the common good. So it's not always against. Design believability address in the book as well. Yeah. Can you talk a Sure. So there's a number indicate if something like very clear, bright fonts, easier to process, if it rhymes, and easier to process, it And again, it's one OK, now that I know very thoughtful about what So &quot;Click It or Ticket,&quot; to try to increase It was more memorable. And it was prosocial. It was saving lives. I explained the but it literally saved or at least contributed to that. So it's important to know Wow, that is really cool. I should pause here the show is An Event It's a three-day show. There's 18 speakers plus special Really interesting educators. The first 50 people to register of e-books written by perhaps even including And if you buy a will receive six months to our first three as well as the three-day buying a ticket for. So that's six full days for the price of three days. How can you resist? Now, to wrap things get into this And if you had like 20 seconds important, what would you say? So I'll start with If you are a designer, is helping people If you want to be you need to really understand And this book can How I got into it-- It's a book about people. Exactly. Design is about people. We design for people. We design with people. We are people. So if you want to you need to know about people. So that's what I OK, great. As far as what I got by Iris Bohnet called which really got into part of bias. And I became with the need to understand So I literally studied for like a year, and my friends were like, And so I did that, rather And that kind of And I was already doing a lot So eventually, those two Were you a writer at became a book author? Yeah, I mean, I've been Like, I'm a content strategist. And the content part and filmmaking ever I really discovered And that's when more of the UX But yeah, I've been But I never wrote a book. And it's funny, I never But I was giving this talk. And Lisa Maria Marquis and later asked me, hey, ever And at the time I was sort why not. And then later I found the managing editor She was asking me I'm like, oh, let me get would be interesting. [LAUGHS] You say you're a Oh yeah. I've been making movies It doesn't pay as well as UX. So I don't do it But yeah, a couple of years about the Philadelphia called Developing Philly with Gaston. So I keep my hand in Are these available Oh yeah, if you actually, see a whole section at the the movies I make, daviddylanthomas.com. And if people want to your handle there is different. Yeah my handle is again, going back to my days and stuff. But yeah, that's how So you went from filmmaking to still doing some filmmaking, you're a UX consultant, Yes. How's business? Business is tough. I think everyone is learning how I mean, I think FAANG companies They're very smart about how to are keeping everybody safe. And we are finding that this is pays off. Because people are because we've done well by them. So now we're doing well by us. So that's paying off. I think now, actually, I am shifting more towards and trying to help people get like an entree into building So that's gaining But yeah, I think we're trying to I think you go back to Yeah. Right? When things are tough we don't know what's The future is very uncertain. But we know who we And let's hold those Yeah, Because that's what's through to the other side. So the topic is design It's part of An Event Apart's the Fall Summit 2020. David Dylan Thomas I will be there. I hope some of And regardless, everybody Thanks.