This is a map of the multiverse. Or in physics-ese, it's the maximally extended And in english: when you solve Einstein's black hole, the universe does not come to Instead, a path can be traced out again but started in. Like I said, it's a map of the multiverse. In order to learn some multiverse cartography, on this map are real, we're going to need while ago when we explored the region just Back then we stopped short of dropping below Today we're going to take that plunge. A black hole results when enough mass is concentrated field becomes too strong for even light to The inescapable surface surrounding a black If that mass is NOT rotating and does not Schwarzschild black hole, which is about as Add a little spin or charge and things get Now, we're going to focus on rotating black holes black holes, as we'll see. A rotating black hole is described mathematically It describes the way spacetime warps and flows We sometimes call a rotating black hole with Let's think about what that rotation does Think of the worst spinny amusement park rides, feel yourself flung outwards by centrifugal Well, in a Kerr black hole that rotation results the inward flow due to gravity. This leads to weird effects. Above the event horizon is the ergosphere is whipped into a vortex so fast that not The event horizon itself is distorted - wider rotating earth. We saw all that in a previous episode. Now let's peek below the event horizon to Before we do that, let's remember how to Carter-Penrose diagram - maybe it'll help A couple of things to remember about this Time flows up - for the most part - and one Light always travels a 45 degree path, and than that. Your so-called "future light cone" encompasses get to at less than light speed. Your past light cone shows you the parts of has had time to reach your position from those As we take this journey we're also going When we first enter the Kerr black hole, we black hole we've ever visited. Down becomes the future, because falling space Space and time switch places. In a regular black hole we'd be crushed But now as we fall the outward pressure due against that inward flow. In fact the flow eventually slows to less This leads to a second event horizon called Now, some pretty terrible things happen here, But we're going to pretend that you're - what do you see? On the other side, space and time switch back to You're now free to not fall, so you can Below you is the black hole singularity - but The singular, central point has been spun It's surrounded by a second ergosphere, light speed. So what next? First probably take a ride in the ergosphere, When you're dizzy enough you can try to the inner horizon, or you can plunge through In either case, you're in for a weird time. To understand what happens here, we have to In order to create these maps of spacetime, to trace what we call geodesics - these are any force. For example, the path a ball takes if I drop A nice way to map the gravitational field freefall that start motionless relative to For example, if you drop a trillion balls of space - and that flow would be pretty spherically Same with the interior of a Schwarzschild the same point and, very importantly, ends But within a Kerr black hole, the singularity towards the disk bounded by that ring. Only the ones exactly on the equator hit the squish as in a Schwarzschild black hole. But those that approach the disk experience the spinning singularity. Our balls, and the geodesics they follow, Before we take that outward ride, let's the ring. With a lot of speed - and I mean a LOT - it's field in the middle of the ring and punch But you don't find yourself on the other The ring is like a portal to a new, very different the geodesics passing through one side do Through the portal things get very weird. For one thing, the ring singularity becomes mass. Also, there are no horizons above you - there's it is certainly not our universe. For one thing, the lack of event horizons as well as being repulsive. Surrounding the ring on this side is a toroidal to infinite speed. And as some of you probably remember - faster There are trajectories in this torus that space AND time. So-called closed-timelike curves. This is the Carter time machine, after the of the early exploration of the Kerr spacetime. This time travel and naked singularity stuff structure of the Kerr black hole is NOT real. We'll come back to how it can be avoided back to our own past and hop back through At this point we can follow an outgoing geodesic However you're in for a surprise. That outgoing flow continues above the inner the outer horizon. That's a little confusing because black So what's with this conveyor belt of space Don't you have the same conveyor belt pulling Well you sort of cross the same space, but The black hole is in your past. You'd need to travel back in time-slash-faster Extending the Kerr metric from ring singularity It leads to what looks like a white hole. Now we saw that in the Schwarzschild solution, hypothetical eternal non-rotating black hole. The Kerr black hole also has a white hole too. And that's where the outgoing geodesics But not only is the black hole in your past in your past. You caught a glimpse of the entire history the white hole. That white hole will eject you as forcibly But eject you where? Well this has to be a new universe, because it's It's not the bizarro negative time traveling universe either where you started - at least as far as general If you try to head back to the white hole, new black hole that lies in its future. If you enter that you'll be able to skipping ahead to yet another universe, and This may all sound fun, but unfortunately obliteration before you ever cross the inner The complete Penrose diagram for the Kerr horizons leading to two parallel wormholes. You reach one if you embrace your fall and and exit the black hole. These correspond to the region below the event the difference being that time flows if the other. So you have this messed up situation where clashes at the inner horizon. This would be okay-ish if the black hole was the tiniest bit of matter or radiation. If there's any stuff at all in the black a current of positive energy, while the backwards When they meet they don't cancel out - instead That pressure produces its own gravitational accelerating the streams further. The result is an exponential runaway effect. So if you do get to the inner horizon you are Good luck with that. Besides, this so-called mass inflation means the inner structure of the Kerr black hole is catastrophically unstable, and the magical portals to time machines or new universes This whole counter-streaming instability thing of charged, non-rotating black holes. But it almost certainly applies to Kerr black In electrically charged, or Reissner-Nordstrom causes massive tension, or negative pressure That resists the inward flow just like rotation You have the same inner horizon and chain They just don't have the ring singularity fun than Reissner-Nordstrom. So there you have it. Now you know everything you need in order time. Just a little wishful thinking, a rotating map in your back pocket. Never travel the multiverse without a Carter-Penrose Last time we talked about the greatest failed Michelson-Morley experiment, and how it did and so doing paved the way for the acceptance Your comments were relatively fantastic. Elliot Heath wonders if we are now in a similar - in that we might be on the cusp of massive Well, unlike 120 years ago, I wouldn't say physics is &quot;complete&quot;. They're very aware that there are big gaps And I'd say most HOPE for massive change, forward. Will that next step be as surprising as relativity I personally think it will be - whatever points and come from an unexpected direction - otherwise Zatar123 asks whether the Michelson Morley velocities to get a better reading - say 10% Well the answer is essentially no. the solar system is moving at 368 km/s relative background radiation - and that's as close as you can So to do better you'd need a device traveling even for a spacecraft, at least currently. But the experiment has been performed with - lasers, vacuum chambers, strange quantum No indication has ever been found that the device or of the observer. Many of you took issue at my bad math. I said infinity times zero is zero. Indeed that isn't generally true. I was being a bit lazy - what I wanted to the universe towards zero age, distant is no point that is so distant that it won't rewind BEFORE time gets to zero. So in an infinite universe, every definable top of us at some point in the rewind. The universe approaches infinite density in But you were right to be annoyed at my lazy Paolo Sena tells us that Quintessence is literally Latin. Paulo, I did not know that. Thank you- that's some erudite nerdery right And we had plenty of the other types of nerdery but I was especially excited to see plenty of of Ether and accusing me of being part of Well I always thought of myself as more order of to the wisdom of the sorting hat that is the Nerds.