Hello Chess Friends, I am Jeetendra Advani. And Welcome to Chess Talk. In today's chess video, I am going to show help you win more games. You need to watch this till the end because for you all. Let's see if you can solve that. So without further ado, let's get started. This is a trap for black which arises out of the two knights defense. Let's get straight into it. The game starts This is a very common opening played at the From here, most white players bring out their bishop to attack on Black's weakest square, and that is f7. If you see, at the moment, we are protecting cannot jump over here to attack this weak But what we are going to play now is knight We are inviting white to move his knight here square. This pawn is being attacked twice by this about it. Let's block off this diagonal by playing pawn Now white will naturally capture this pawn. What you don't want to play here is something Because white can sacrifice his knight like this &amp; he can destroy you with the fried liver attack. I have made a detailed video on the fried You can check it out by clicking on the I moves in this position would be knight to a5 or pawn to b5 with the idea of attacking this bishop. We are not going cover any of these in this video. What I am going to show you is a cheeky little trap which starts with the move knight to d4. Now since, we are not threatening the bishop of attacking this weak square again. As you can see, this pawn is obstructing the to get it out of the way by playing d6. But that's a big mistake. After queen takes pawn, white is feeling on He has 2 options to attack now. He can either take this pawn with his knight If white captures this pawn with his knight, Let me show you how. After knight takes pawn, it has a double attack So we will slide our queen to c6. Notice how our queen is double attacking this After knight takes rook, we will take this White saves his rook by moving it next to From here, unfortunately for white, he will Just see this now. It's queen e4 check. If he blocks with his bishop, then knight If he does not block with his bishop, then his queen, but then he loses his queen &amp; will This trap resembles the one in the Blackburne I have made a detailed video on that as well. Don't forget to watch it. You can tap on the 'I' button above that's showing on your screen now. Okay, now let's go back to this position. Now what if white takes this pawn with his It will be a check so you have to move your He will have to pull back his bishop because can be easily kicked away. So he plays bishop b3. We take this bishop with our knight. Pawn takes knight and then we advance this He has only one square to go, and that is We will push him back further by attacking Now the best move for white here is to actually But most average players don't like to do So the only other option he has is to move He might look to bring his knight here so If you see now, this knight has no where to move. So a simple pawn move like this, would get it. If he understands what you are trying to do, his knight. But there is a trick here as well. In case he plays g3, and after we attack with g2. But to his surprise, we have this deadly move, Believe it or not, his queen is trapped. Even if he blocks with this pawn, it will So this again lands you in a very commanding position Going back, in this position, like I told the best move for white. But even if he plays this, you still have Most of your pieces are active &amp; can be developed up, all his pieces are still on the back rank So this should still be quite a good game How should you play this as white. How to prevent yourself from getting trapped? Well, let's look at this position on the board. Instead of pushing this pawn forward, the playing pawn to c3. For black, Knight to f5 is a good move because take it &amp; guard this weak f7 square as well. So all in all, if you look at this position, has a slight advantage. Nevertheless, this trick is definitely worth time. But Before moving onto today's chess puzzle, this video. We are targeting 3000 likes on this video, right now. Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, Don't forget to Like &amp; Subscribe to this channel. And for some interesting chess tips, tricks and follow me on Instagram. Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in