- So Apple has introduced a That looks amazing and but I'm not going to use it. My name's Josh with all things secured and I'm gonna explain to use the new Passwords app from Apple, but why maybe you should. So Apple has long been behind the scenes in the key chain app that was hidden in the settings. So this is the first time with an app itself that is a dedicated app for our passwords. And when you upgrade to that app show up just automagically. Now this app seems to rival Password, proton Pass, And I have heard from some people that have talked about the fact of these companies. Apple might be putting them outta business - When Apple introduces a product that duplicates functionality and essentially put some outta business, we call it being Sherlocked. - Now, personally I disagree or put these other third but in order to understand and open up the Passwords app. So if you look at the you're gonna notice a couple things. First of all, it uses Face ID to open up and if you don't have Face of your, basically your login passcode. I'll talk about that in just a moment. And once you get in, you that you've used, which is basically all, if you've used hide my email at any point or login with Apple, that's It's got Passkey, its own which is actually kind of cool codes, which are essentially the that you would get from something authe or another app like that. And then wifi, which has been of the wifi that you've connected with on your Apple device over the years. So you're probably gonna Now here's the thing, of simplifying security. I think they do that so well. So instead of saying, Hey, you need to go set up two factor authenticator app on a that just sounds way too difficult for the average person to do. But if you call it just codes and then you have a place where they can either manually copy and paste the the code for setup or scan the QR code that's so much easier and it's not hidden in some lot of other password managers. Quite frankly. It's to if you use a password manager often, but I think this makes to break it out into all A passkey is its own kind of new password and understanding that it is separate and it is new, kind of makes it easier and less, I don't know, difficult So truth be told, I think what is needed in order to by the masses where most Up until this point, it's a little bit unknown, but when and put it in the passwords that's going to really make In short, apple is taking for not using a password manager. Now, if that's you, we'll talk But if you are already you might have already noticed Apple passwords app. Things like being able to store something other than a login. You can't go in and store credit card info or even to have encrypted but accessible And if you're worried about the security of the app code itself, what my friends at the Surveillance Report podcast have already pointed out, - You're locking yourself and it's not source available and nobody can like audit the code - And not being open source I mean, I use and recommend one password, which is only partially open source, but I do know that for some people that's really, really important. Now for me, I would to put in other information besides just logins such as my Passport or sensitive documents, stuff like that. But more importantly, I that Apple passwords, the with a backup of your phone's passcode. So what I hate about this idea is that somebody looking over my shoulder and seeing the passcode that I put in there could to pretty much anything Now, this is one reason that Password manager app with and I wouldn't be surprised that is a feature that changes and that Apple allows you for the Passwords app that isn't the same as your phone's login passcode. But the biggest reason that I won't be using the that I don't want to be for all of my security. Now this is especially true for those who have cross-platform devices. So if you don't use all Apple devices, it's gonna be a lot harder for you to use something like Apple passwords, even though I know they and they have something for Windows users, but it's just not native therefore it's not gonna be I much prefer my password vault to be separate from my operating system and even from my two FA passcodes or the pass keys to be separate This separation of that a data hacking or a security breach of any entire online identity. So you wanna know my recommendation. If you are already using One or any other good Password manager app, and I've already done a video then there is really no to Apple passwords. As a matter of fact, I'd say don't do it. There are missing features and if you've already set of the Apple ecosystem, which I recommend, then there's really no However, if you're a dedicated that all of your family's and if you don't already maybe you just write 'em down yourself or you keep strong passwords in your head, then Apple passwords is to not only help you but also help you start adopting pass keys and authentication codes So that's my take, but if you party password manager, that you can follow right here. And I've got a bunch of new on Apple's new iOS 18 and other security topics that so right here.