Hey everyone. David C Andersen, KnifeCenter, and it is United States. And if you're break from the squabbling family right now, we've got something at the coolest new knives that right here in front of me for You. All right, enough about thankful for, and I'm sure the for, terrible transition, I 50th anniversary of Kershaw released a handful of models months, kind of commemorating this Kershaw blur right now, a lineup. Just when you think it's something else, it keeps showing bonafide workhorse. This version focus. There it is. And here is focus for you right now. 50th The blade is 3.4 inches long, tanto variant. Comes in bdz one Carpenter, as opposed to the other versions that are less coming in just over, just about aluminum for the handles, the anniversary Kershaw logo there That's kind of the only, like Otherwise it's, it's the same, working knife that the blur has reversible pocket clip, or, Pocket clip right side only in are angled with that bit of get a grip on those even if things are slippery, the when things are slippery. The found about the blur design, handle design. It is neutral. It get a decent grip on it. It close up to the heel of the behind that edge. It's not little more difficult to ergonomically set right there work that you would do with the more do you want to know? I'm to know about this knife? good. Long story short, they're company. I'm glad they're still 50 more. I have a couple more video as well. Next up, speaking have established themselves as knives, the Ontario RAT series quite taken by surprise. I'm about this knife already have introduced a new size. For a one with a 3.6 inch blade, and three inch blade. Well now we inch blade. It's, you know, of the two existing sizes. And launched with MagnaCut blade about 95 bucks. So you've got that is also very tough, in resistant and holding an edge a question on my line was, does it Because the cool thing about the they're not they're just scaled down from the one. They didn't everything. They just shrunk it, quite well. Is that the case yes. The shape still translates size. I have slightly larger the standard grip here feels just barely a four finger grip get a full fisted grip on this area around the ricasso of the enough for another finger should close to the edge of the of that talked about just second ago reach back and get a little more reach out of the blade, mentioned, same drop point shape its full flat grind, a good blade. This is just it's very The design still works across a from everyday carry to small does it all. It's very nice clip, and they stuck to their assembly here, they just, you They didn't change what worked that with the pivot is it's not ball bearings, and it's action. You get the stability of for it to resist dust and all little bit better than a washer based pivot could do. Bravo to there. They did a good one with can get them right now at the probably, definitely, I'd say item on the table today, the But David, that's not a new newest generation of the ultra B, T, which stands for zero essentially means this is one of the market, at any price, that zero blade play in the open that, up until recently, has life. But micro Tech have solved grant and Gavin Hawk dead lock very well, but that's been a today, well over 1000 bucks in 379 which puts it just a little Pentagon OTF, which is the only OTF I know of that has has done frankly, the fit and finish, the this micro tech are better than as that SOG is, which it is, for not a whole lot more. So, in they say, a little bit of a more of a bargain than the dead a half inch blade on this knife proprietary variant of m3 90, be more or less the same double a lot of sharpened edge to work chassis, as per usual, torx head You've got the very cool new glad to see them continuing to retention point. Milled clip, held on with that big it also boasts, in addition to going on, Microtech's new firing difficult to use as some generations of their mechanism, strong, and it has the crud a grooved landing pad underneath reduces friction as you operate for dust and pocket lint to kind way of that switch doing its have just a fairly limited like I said, we are aiming to concurrently when this video this, you know, after the fact, later, after this video has after dinner, like in a turkey They may or may not still be Let's take a look at a couple The next up is one of those out recently that has, you know, good at what they do, and that They've done a ton of different the last year or so, because it because it's, quite frankly, about 246 with a MagnaCut bladed particular one, first time we've Live Wire at All. And then, of MagnaCut as well. You've got do have a little bit of wiggle, endemic to the OTF style and notable exceptions, like that carry pocket clip, which is profile in the hand, nice slicey is less of a a like bona fide of an EDC friendly shape they're available now, tons of now. In fact, it's a good thing to look at later, from Kershaw, lot of cool color variations of for gifting season. Since we are find something to suit who Next up is quite the bargain for regular price on these is about already quite good. Right now, actually on sale for 7495 not new item on sale, on a discount not privy to these could be the beneficiary of this aluminum handles, just like the not going to get a super steel MagnaCut, of course, but you do capable stuff, especially for a satin grain to finish on it. aluminum chassis as well. It's got a bit of three milling pattern, of course, as the front and back. The middle that is because that's where the reversible, and it's deep carry. there is going to make it easier without shredding your pockets a the action is great too. Yeah, blade play than the Kershaw, but especially for a $75 knife. got a tanto and you've got a choose from. This, of course, is slicey as the Kershaw, but still carry slice ability. I would Next up, we'll get back to tolerance, which is the kind of with a new tiger stripe fixed tiger stripe, Olive. Very American made fixed blade. You So excellent toughness and edge supremely rust resistant, It's not super rust prone, but clean it off. Don't put it away, cool finish, very cool design. say leans into. It's probably anything, but you could flex it unquote survival knife type of as mentioned, not too thick, not thickness, especially with the very, very durable blade and act as a wedge if you need to enough reach to function in a dual guard there that also The guard is small enough so too much if you use your thumb the blade. So it could have been sure, G 10 handles, full tang for some hammering and that sort sheath right is kydex with a lock will work on this if you'd the the drop loop to carry it. like ZT, has also been known for tanks of folding knives. In this known for their folders than Chavez. Well, these are new These are the blue liner or Blue 229, and I gotta say these for full, thick, tanky frame lock because I tend to prefer folders these are gonna do just that. those knives as well. Just 180 the multiples of hundreds on the two blade shapes. You've got the can be had in a black or a satin the drop point like on the does still have the compound harder to see on this, this for that, but I like the tanto because it's very gentle tanto, pointier tip than the broad think for me, that appeals to little better than the drop course, vary, but the blades are slice better. They're made from great performance, quite m3 90 blades that the more you've got micarta for the of a frame lock makes it so it's difficult to open. Difficultly very easy to open every time. I these, as with any framework, if as you go to open it, it can action. Think the Chavez models than some. It's not an issue In addition to the blade being little thinner, but they still without being too chunky. And it really, really nicely. The bearings in the pivot. The lock though it's just, quote, not a frame lock. And even the standard mill pocket clip, pocket clip in the box if you signature Chavez style. Great versions of these knives, in my Chavez today, quite honestly, at cheaper models. So take that for skipped a tab here we have a new nafs, and something of a brand, I would say. And that is the nafs lineup, I tend to pocket knives. I don't use the know the nafs lineup, and Ben it, makes regular knives for well. The tanto is a is a little I'm like it. I'm here for it. but it's cool to see them kind the blade here is s 35 VN. these come in about three and a just a hair over three inches, a little bit of length compared you get the more aggressive tip versions with this knife, still slicing geometry, however, neutral shape on these as well, blur we talked about at the Carrick pocket clip, which handles with a filler plate on nice and cool looking. These are their clutch lock, their cross different adjustability for the make a little tighter, a little always said they feel pretty box, but you've got the choice very cool. We can check them out bucks, same price as the that's about 10 bucks more than those come with G 10 handles. that's pretty cool. Next up, shark cub from Andrew Demko stealth, almost all blacked out, front and the blade laserings on black, as can be the edge this with a 20 CV blade with the slicer, sharp shape to be exact, three quarters of an inch long. very nice to me with a three and solid. You've got the shark fidget friendly and, of course, what you may think with of the nicely. If you're gripped right you're wanting to choke up, you it's not going to get in the way deep carry pocket clip rounds option for just about anyone. take just about anywhere. it quite easily thanks to the fun to use as well. 20 CV steel, edge retention too. Next up, it is a new version of the Bel talking about colors earlier, from in the Bel Air range in and this one the the Bel Air again, showing Kershaw knows how so, right? And this is one of this American made cross bar blade just over three inches on this blade. It is nice and grind with a black, washed just a great everyday pocket tactical brute, because it trying to be. It's trying to be companion that's built very the handles, a very vibrant truly, true deep carry clip handles there, and it is carry. The cross bar lock, which dura lock, is very nice, very the pivot. So you got just nice and slim to carry as well. EDC pocket knife. New colors bucks. If you don't have 150 some change or thereabouts. something new versions of the technically a new brand, but Have we shown any tenables on you recall? I don't think we internet could find out. So released a new sub brand called you know brand split ups, like and Civivi, where they've got between the two lines, the the names and models from some lower priced options therein. concept name, quite honestly, to report. This is the model six here is 5889 with a 14 C, 28 end long. Very, very aggressive foot shape. It's thick, but not it's thick compared to the Bel blade is on that Bel Air. This blade. It is just a little bit full flat grind there, it does more strength, as opposed to that's what you're looking for, micarta handles on this one. fibers also available, cross bar actually is really satisfying. resounding quack, when these home, that's very nice, very stepped thumb. Call it a stud actuation there, if you don't thanks to that crossbar lock. pocket clip, pretty deep carry right handed, kind of hard decent budget. I would say, full four finger grip, or I can, in front of the finger guard really, especially if I'm I could really get a solid grab when needed. Next up, similar quite the same knife. We have sorry, 4T5, designed and tenable coming in just under 64 bucks. just like the swan or the model stuff. It's tough. It holds an very fine grain structure on take a fine edge really well, thanks to the toughness, is foot. We've got a blue denim multiple methods for opening which works well. You've got the allow you to do the reverse slow roll. Thumb type of open in yet, but looks like we ought to Haven't tried this at all. No pretty aggressive half moon Jim hook my thumb in there and open Not too bad. Bad. Two out of passing grade. Well, I'll take interestingly shorter handle. the model six from the thumb right there. It might seem like but for whatever reason, it of a three and a half finger in front of that finger groove, grabbing this with my middle instead of the index finger. And solid grip back. I'm actually bit, but that feels okay, quite using that groove at all anyway, certainly folds up fairly department. You've got a little bit of bulk from the thickness. like something like the Bel Air. be. Next up, we've got some new This is the Russlock with the love it like the warmth of this nice, and you get that cool interestingly, kearnite is one it's damp or wet, actually feels know, there's a little more which is a nice in addition to here, it's a nice actual usage cool. 85 bucks for this one, blade high polished with that design, or that, you know, grind on it. Very, very slice a liner locking knife, whereas known for being slip joints. And different slip joint versions in handle covers on it. This knives, and it is one hand thanks to that spine tab Check it out. Good gift item gifting budget is a bit lower, got some options from browning Show releases, which that was point, but they are available flipper. It's coming in at about pretty good for the price. If inch blade D2 steel, electro point. So what I am assuming is, this is an assumption on my plated the blade in copper, then stone washed it to get this the inlays on the front here. going to also assume that the portions of this blade are going with time, and get darker and should wear in. Pretty cool. Be knife, you have a reversible however, a frame lock. So it is a right hand sided knife stud as well. Although it looks unscrew it and flip it around, necessary, I would say, however, there, which is going to be the, to open this blade. You can do bit tougher a because of the frame, you might accidentally also, just the small size in trickier ergonomically to get to slightly larger than average works great lock up super solid going anywhere. That's a really cool little I like that finish a lot. It's look for that sort of thing. I you want to give or get a fixed got some 2024, SHOT Show back blades. The first is the micro. It's a would say, coming in SPECT well, handles, D2, blade, steel with a two and three quarters of an feels flat. Yeah, that's very finger grip on that knife too, to. But it's agile enough, and get your fingers up near the maneuverable positions, which is needed to, you could. Certainly That is the, as I said, the fixed blade, rather inventively Specs are the same, except inch blade drop point with a really good. Traction is fairly sand it down a little bit if you wanted to, but if you're, you know, actually with these, that traction is get get messy. Shall we say, the here. It's not really a Phillips a any commonly available flat those no torques necessity right Sheaths on these are the same, but for the size work nicely. You've got a kydex flexibility with the mounting kind of aftermarket solution replace this, but for the price, really nice. Dig those. Yeah, I focused, trying to think they general campy to me, but my bias certainly work just fine. This folks with smaller hands that without going to something fit, I think, those hand, those as well, while still feeling honestly, very cool. All right, definitively, kind of like San micarta from Condor knife knife, sorry, very clearly the the pukkos of the Lapland for this one, and you've got condors usually come with. For four inches. They say it's scandi grind, but it's a pretty tall Scandi if real secondary there is a micro a really, really keen scandi working wood, since it's got to it, and it's a very as well, kind of like those hardwood for the handles, an mimicking some traditional micarta for the end cap here, horn look that you might see on this type of design, full tang sheaf is also leaning into that leather with the seam down the pretty cool thing. And I just it in straight I didn't want to cool. You got a little dangler it very easy to carry, We are in the winter times for and only gonna start getting the hem of your coat a little sit down at camp, it's gonna check your map. And last but not here to take a look at. This is the O light, O Knife, Otacle O functional o hatchet. No, just of a smart like you're adding use a lot of O's. But this is on Otacle, or otacle A1 multi are 80 bucks. You've got a This blade right here, 50 CR, 15 correct. It's pretty much the a lot of kitchen knives can be stuff. Quite honestly, this the is used on are often made to be rough handling, a little more edge throughout the day. So if they've heat treated it Well, durability in a hatchet form out. We'll see how that goes for been have one of these already, Please let me know how these are do we have here? Well, you've hatchet there at the end. You've pole here at the end, or that good in camping scenarios, for handles bolted on a couple back side you've got a pry bar if you're going to use that kydex sheath on the head right pretty nicely. You've got two style Tekk hole pattern this is going to be something if you wish. So that's pretty decent for something like this. cheapest sort of thing out style of hatchet can certainly this. So check it out. This is because call it the tanto Hawk, the tanto Hawk, and it's a cheese knife for cheese knife. Would be really week. You could have used it to, for the the table. But alas, know what you thought of the folks, hopefully it was a nice Thanksgiving today. If you want these, check out the links in don't forget about our new you're over you can split up payments if you about our long running knife some free money to spend on your buying for yourself or someone David C Andersen from the behind the camera, and we're Everyone. Happy Thanksgiving. hide from your guest forever. Go say hi to your mom.