- This video was sponsored by KiwiCo. More about them at the end of the show. On February 15th, 2013, an asteroid heavier than the Eiffel tower slammed into the atmosphere. And then 30 kilometers above This violent event was but so high up that it was silent, for a full 90 seconds after the blast, which only made the devastation worse. - So you see all these videos, of people, &quot;Look, oh, what was that?&quot; They see the smoke trail in the sky, &quot;Oh, that's amazing!&quot; And then, you know, just when you think the shockwave hits and thousand people got glass because they're looking - The shockwave damaged and injured 1500 people. What makes the Chelyabinsk is that the very same day, scientists had predicted a close fly-by of earth. And they were right. 16 hours after Chelyabinsk, known as Duende, came within 27,000 kilometers That's closer than satellites But while they correctly they completely missed that exploded over Russia. And the truth is, this We're really not that good before they hit us. Since 1988, over 1200 have collided with the we detected only five before they hit, never with more than a day of warning. With all our technology across the earth, not to why do we struggle to before they strike? What are the chances that wiping out most, if not all life on earth? And if we saw one coming, (explosion) Asteroids are the leftover debris from when our solar system formed. Four and a half billion years ago, rocks and dust clumped together Inside, heavy elements, metals like iron, nickel, and leaving lighter silicate Some of these protoplanets grew into the planets we know today. But many more collided with each other, breaking into pieces. These pieces continued orbiting the sun, and smashing into each even smaller fragments. These became the asteroids, which is why some of them are rocky, loose conglomerates of gravel sized rocks called rubble piles, and others, from the are mostly metal. - So this is, this is an iron meteorite. And essentially it's the piece of a core of a small planetary body, like basically a small planet, that formed four and a differentiated, so the and then this thing was smashed apart by a collision with another asteroid. That's the oldest thing you'll ever see. - Most of the asteroids have stable orbits between Mars and Jupiter, But some have made their And these are known as near earth objects. They are of greatest interest to us because of the threat they pose. In his last book, Stephen Hawking considered to be the greatest But finding asteroids is Most are spotted by - [Prof. Jewitt] So a sequence of pictures, one, two, three, one, two, three, four, and you look for essentially a moving dot. And it's moving because it's Whereas the stuff far away, the - But you have to look carefully. Asteroids are not very big. They range from meters And in the vast expanse of space, rocks like that just don't stand out. And even the small ones can be damaging. The Chelyabinsk meteor was only around 20 meters in diameter, roughly the width of two school buses. Plus, asteroids are rough and dark. They only reflect around 15% So our best chance to see them is when they're fully And that's why over 85% of the near earth asteroids we've detected were found in the 45 degrees of sky directly opposite the sun. This is called the opposition effect, and it means there are and potentially hazardous asteroids that haven't been detected yet. Any asteroid approaching just can't be seen. This is exactly what So far, we have detected and the vast majority of which But 24,000 are near earth objects. Ones that we need to keep a Because even once you've it's hard to tell if - So if you just discover an object, and you only have data from a few days, then you can't really because you're tryna take and predict it far into the future, so, what you need is observations But even if you have perfect there's kind of a fundamental limit to how far in the future you can predict. And that's because of a couple of effects, but one is that, you know, they're not just orbiting the All of the planets have gravity, and all of the planets are pulling on near earth asteroids and can So there is something which basically means, after you don't know where the And in practice, what that means is, we can't do any work more So the maximum time you can where a body will be is about 100 years. - And this is pretty important, because we know with certainty, if one does hit, the (gentle music) This is Barringer crater in Arizona. It's named after a mining who was the first to suggest it was formed by a meteorite impact. The prevailing view, was that it was created But Barringer was of an iron meteorite impact. So in 1903, he staked a mining claim, and began drilling for which he believed to be worth more than a billion 1903 dollars. - Yeah. So people are motivated by money, right? So they thought, &quot;Hey, we can get some So they started to drill and found nothing. And then they started to do And this went on for years and decades. They started to drill sideways. Somebody said, you know, maybe it came in from And maybe the iron is not under the middle but maybe it's over there under the wall. So he was doing drilling, if you go there, you He was drilling around the So what they didn't realize is, when you have an impact at high speed, it's not like you're throwing you know, and it makes a Or just bounces off. It's explosive. It's like totally explosive. So the kinetic energy of the projectile comes in maybe 30 kilometers per second. The kinetic energy of the to completely vaporize the projectile. It turns it into a gas. And that gas is super hot and it explodes and it So the projectile doesn't I mean, little pieces can survive. But this 50 meter body So he was looking for - He spent 27 years mining the crater, drilling down to a depth But what he was searching 50,000 years earlier. The 50 meter asteroid, not that much bigger than Chelyabinsk, released the energy equivalent That's over 600 times the So, the thing that most closely resembles a meteorite impact is a very (explosion) - This is the actual And I thought, this is such a So, I bought the T-Rex. The dinosaurs were wiped out by a 10 kilometer size asteroid, that hit about 65 million years ago. So, above a critical size, which is probably a couple of kilometers, an impacter delivers so much energy that it has a global effect. (explosion) So essentially, it launches into sub orbital trajectory. So the ejector goes around the earth, falls back into the earth, all over, even on the other side of the planet from where the impact occurred. And what that means is with wall-to-wall meteors. So you can imagine the sky a nice blue day like today, into essentially a red, hot glow, like being inside a toaster oven. So the first effect of this impact apart from the initial blast near where the actual impact occurred, the first effect is the sky turns into a great source of heat, and it cooks everything on the ground. So these guys were basically cooked. - Cooked alive. - Cooked alive, as they The only animals that had a chance were the ones living in or maybe in the water. And they were able to without having to deal with the dinosaurs as a major obstacle. - What are our chances that earth gets hit by another 10 kilometer - In your lifetime, assuming you have a 10 kilometer impacter like the KT extinction event every hundred million years So the probability of is one in a hundred million. So you have one in a million chance of dying from a 10 kilometer impact. But, because we know that there are no 10 kilometer impacters with a path that intersects the earth for the next hundred years, your chance of dying from So work done already has from one in a million to nothing. - So the good news is, there won't be another in our lifetimes. But, there are of smaller sizes. For every 10 kilometer asteroid, there are roughly a thousand and they're still capable - One or two kilometers is capable of causing So that means, you know, instead of wiping out the entire world, you would wipe out the equivalent of some European country, to mention two of my favorites. So you would obliterate those countries with the impact of a one - Do we know about all the one to two kilometer - We think that we know Maybe 98% of those bodies and we have their orbits, and we can make reasonable predictions for the next 10 years of And we seem to be okay at what about the ones that are just a little bit less than a kilometer? What about the ones that are 800 meters? That's still pretty, - And this is possibly where the greatest threat of asteroids remains. A few hundred meters is large enough to obliterate a large city. But small enough that we - We're missing a lot of And those guys are big enough on the earth, depending on where they hit. - So it could destroy a city. - Yeah. It would knock down It would cause city-wide fire. And if it hit the ground, it would throw up ejecta rain on the ground, it that would obliterate a hundred - And this could happen tomorrow? - Well it could, yeah. (chuckling nervously) - If we saw a big one coming, what's our best bet for, I mean, could we do anything about it? What would we do about it? - [Prof. Jewitt] No. - Is there anything we - No. There's nothing we can do. I was on a committee that like 10 years ago, like, what could we do? One option would be to try to bomb it. It's a standard thing. We don't know how that would work out. Even when you got it there, and even if you could explode it, on the surface or in the surface, it's not clear what you would do, because typically what happens is you blow up a body, and They expand out, but not very quickly. And then gravity pulls So it would reform as a rubble pile. If it was not already a which it probably would be So blowing up a rubble pile is something that we Another idea is you could attach, you could be all gentle, and attach a rocket to the asteroid, and just try to push it aside. Just nudge it aside, instead let's just push it gently aside, so that it deflects it and The trouble is, when you none of the rockets that we You would have to keep the which we don't know how to do. Remember, it's a rotating body, for centuries, to have on the motion of the asteroids. So forget bombs, forget attaching rockets. Ablating the surface, basically you boil the We don't have any lasers powerful enough and probably can't make to do that from the earth. We would have to take which is even more difficult. The idea that you could wrap an asteroid in cooking foil, aluminum It may be a good one, the best one. But it still doesn't really work because we don't know how to do that. We don't have a way to launch enough cooking foil to wrap up an asteroid and change its radiative properties which would itself move So the truth is, to be honest, we do not have a way now to deflect a kilometer size asteroid, at all. - That could destroy a country. - [Prof. Jewitt] Yeah, - And 10 kilometers? - 10 kilometers is absolutely a thousand times more hopeless. (laughing) So, when we discuss this, you know, we had all these grand ideas. &quot;Oh, we could do this and We came down to the most basic idea, well, maybe if we could figure out where the asteroid is gonna hit, like which city is it gonna explode over, we can evacuate that city. And then we looked at the and we looked at cases, you know where, for example, you have where some hurricane and flood a city. And evacuation just doesn't work either. And the reason is very, very simple. Going into a city, there If you have millions of people the first time a car breaks So instantly, you have millions of people trying to get out of the target zone, and they won't be able to will be instantly blocked. So again, even that, even is probably the most hopeful Even that's really, really difficult, because of the large What I think all reasonable let's do the thing that we can do first. So let's look for them. Let's do the surveys. Let's build the telescopes. Let's put this telescope in space. That will be a major contribution to understanding the And then when we find a particular object that looks especially dangerous, We can focus everything we have on it, and we can begin to think about ways to deflect it. - Now, if you're concerned in an asteroid impact, let There are many other summarized in this map of over at Domain of Science. So if you wanna see which is likeliest to be our downfall, well go check out the (sci-fi sound effects) My oldest now knows how Do you wanna say it? This episode ... - [Kid] Is sponsored by KiwiCo. (chuckling) - Very good. KiwiCo creates awesome projects They offer eight subscription all the way down to newborns. And with the holidays KiwiCo is the perfect gift idea. As a parent, I know that and played with for a little while, but then kids lose interest. But a KiwiCo crate subscription learning, and making throughout the year. Now I use their crates with my sons, and they are a lot of fun And I want my kids to see And KiwiCo really helps me do that. Plus all the supplies you so you never need to run out to the store. Now here, I built a perpetual calendar. A reminder that each passing of an asteroid impact. For viewers of this video, KiwiCo is offering 50% off Just go to kiwico.com/veritasium50, and I'll put that link So I wanna thank KiwiCo and I wanna thank you for watching.