- In the world of private aviation, some of the biggest planes for private use. So to get a better understanding we came to the Comlux facilities to check out their latest creation. This is the ACJ TwoTwenty, There are only two in And we got exclusive access to it before it was even delivered to its owner. Comlux gave us a behind the scenes look at how they build these one of a kind jets and sat down with their what it takes to produce these planes. - I always just say because we don't really We have people everywhere because - That's why on this episode we're going to take a deep dive into understanding how these planes are with its all exquisite and even better, flying on this jet truly brings this (dramatic music) This is the brand new There are two of them in and we have the second We're currently at to the tarmac at Comlux facility. And Comlux is the exclusive of Airbus when it comes They're building the first 17 with Airbus and what an opportunity to tour this incredible aircraft and share this experience with all of you. Now I wanna talk about of this aircraft. It's 114 feet, nine inches long. Wing span is 115 feet, one inches. Now right in front of Pratt &amp; Whitney, 1500G engines to 624 miles an hour top speed. And the cruising speed of this and it is crazy for me to this insane engine. How cool is my backdrop? - [Cody] I have never been this close up and personal with an And those blades, look how close they are to the outside ring. - [Cody] It's like It is stunning in my opinion. It's crazy. And then going to this to the landing gear. Look how little I look and these massive tires tuck which is crazy. And lastly, I wanna bring We talk about cantilevers and these aircraft are some of the craziest cantilevering Look how far in those back tires are and the entire tail section and it's just floating up in the air. And I wanna keep our tour on because I know all of you In fact, let's go up there (upbeat music) Off of the entry, we have with patterned hardwood with LED lighting. It's a nice warm welcome to this plane. And in front of me we have where you have ovens, food storage. This is the bathroom for the crew. And right in front of us we have the door opening up to the cockpit. (upbeat music) The cockpit of this As soon as you walk in, you You don't have any yokes, beautiful minimalist screens. It feels very exciting to be here. And your control gauges, We have the thrust control here. You have your pedals on with elevation and braking. Then you have your side sticks as well as going up and down. And then you have your autopilot right in the center. And we have more controls above us. Now at this point, if you're of this cockpit comes from, to talk to the captain. In fact, let's have him show us more. - Hello everyone. So this is latest technology, highly computerized flight deck. We have six screens. Two are mainly used so that's the when we or under automation, the and systems and communications. We have here an overhead panel. This is an area where we can select all the So for instance, we have the electrical, the fuel, hydraulic, the air, so for air conditioning, temperature and the anti ice system for the wings and the engines. Behind all this, it's a lot of computers. So there is also a lot of automation which makes our life easier and which makes the - And compared to some of that I saw, this one seems More screens- - And more of a minimalist approach. - [Enes] And makes it easier for the pilot. I really recommend the ACJ TwoTwenty. I really enjoy flying it. And this is for me, I have A business jet as you see the cabin. - Yeah, and the efficiency of use. - Amazing. Now let's continue On the other side we have the main galley, we have so much countertop I really like this upper section here where we have crystal glasses and they also have slots so they're nice and Basically this is your main galley and you have the hot additional storage here. Perfect place for you to prepare the food and service your guest that's In fact, follow me this way, the next space I wanna take everyone is the forward seating area. We have two comfortable seats here, window so you can enjoy the views. And then on the other side for the guests, you have the toilet is actually right here. And then on the other side you polished fixtures, LED lighting, toiletries, everything you need. It's a really exquisite space and we have more bathrooms to see. Now follow me this way. The next section that we're gonna be touring And it's so exquisite. we have in total, six seats here. And before I talk about these details, I wanna talk about the So it features 786 square feet of interior space, can and it has a range of which is a lot given That way you can fly anywhere London to Tokyo or New York to Istanbul. So you have a really, really good range. In regards to crew, you must have at least and one engineer on board. They must stay on board But given the size of this or three stewards. Price is around $80 million. This particular plane and if you want to charter a around $13,000 an hour. So you can kind of make the math there. And this is actually the second out of 17 that Comlux is building with Airbus. So it's a really phenomenal to a jet like this, get And it looks absolutely stunning. I mean look at the You have these exquisite and custom details and these so they're wider than that are 16 to 18 inches. So you have that extra comfort and you don't have to share your armrest, which is really nice. Now right in the center that pops up and folds down. That way you can have a Look at all these and then you have mood In fact, I wanna show So if you come over here and hit this button, it and blacks out the entire cabin properly. Also, if you want, you can come over here and actually change the interior of set the mood- - Which is really nice, right? - And when you want to just go back to your regular setting, hit your windows and there you go. I mean, what an exquisite space. And then on the other side Again, I love the leather, these chrome attachments or cover plates. This is your seat belt. - [Cody] The craftsmanship and I really, really - It feels like we're - in a bespoke Rolls Royce. - We are basically going And I also wanna show Look at the dining setup here, how elegant this floating table is. - [Cody] I was gonna that was wild, compared where it takes you five This is so easy. - So easy. Beautiful aircraft. In fact, now let's go this way, so we can talk about the next section, which is the service galley. And we have the second We have the toilet to the left, Again, exquisite details. You And then on the other side where we have additional uppers, countertop space. There's also a sink And this is the area where you put the final before you serve your Now come on in to the main You can really see the length and the width of this aircraft here. I just love how airy it feels paneling, details and before we continue, I want to talk about what it takes to build one of these planes. At this point it's easy to observe how complicated these to manufacturing and And this is where Comlux comes in. Comlux is a vertically integrated company that covers a wide spectrum of aviation business from outfitting, assembling and resale. That's what makes Comlux so unique. Not to mention, you have on the other side of the equation. The relationship Comlux has with Airbus and how Comlux managed to to outfit the first 17 - The answer is very complex there, but to give the simple And you know I think Airbus views us because we are a customer, because our management team They understand how Airbus works. They're with us because they trust us, we're with them because we trust them. - And to understand the we requested behind the scenes access. Welcome to com Comlux's one of their seven A 157,000 square foot facility where at any given jets are being outfitted. These ACJ TwoTwenties come fully assembled with an empty with an interior and finishes. From there, it goes through the stages of manufacturing parts, and then the final process and inspecting it before But before we can get to these stages, we first gotta design the plane. They have their in-house and curate every fabric, They work with clients side by side and help them navigate this process. Sky is really the limit in regards to how these planes can be customized. Next in their manufacturing process is where they make their own Beautiful. So the entire - Start to finish. play a crucial role in manufacturing precise parts that comply with aviation standards and regulations. And it was quite the sight to see. Well that's pretty satisfying to watch. That's why Comlux goes out of its way to produce custom manufactured components that not only fit each of but have the lowest weight possible for efficiency while (upbeat music) And the way they achieve that is with these honeycomb with different veneers before being assembled into furniture. Each panel and part must be 9G certified, which in simple terms means to withstand nine times their weight. For example, this cabinet Would you say given the specs and what these components these are like some of the the world basically, right? - Oh absolutely. You, I mean the thought process has to go into it and you could access panels on top just So there's a lot more thinking about the way you do maintenance in the future on these. - Beyond each piece's to be designed in a way and other components It's truly fascinating to of complexity that Comlux goes through to make their interiors comply (intense music) Now when it comes to the avionics and the technology that's in the plane that the user interacts with, that's also where Comlux does it a little bit differently than its competition. All of their wiring and This allows Comlux to quickly manage and resolve any issues outside vendors and maintain and precision with their technology. And for the parts they they have a great solution to still maintain production - So this is actually as a ceiling panel screwed into the top and there's four throughout the aircraft. So these are kind of the of the electronics in the aircraft. - Some of the components say that not for aircraft usage. Why is that? - Some components could be on and we don't have that long to get in house to build the pallet. So we get the direct dimensions we 3D print to the dimensions that the box is gonna be received in so we can run and route our wires and see how it interferes - I honestly genuinely thought that a lot of these pieces were manufactured outside and this is really the Very impressive to see that the procedure from the zero - And when we did have and outside suppliers is when it more internalized. So it's a learning lesson, always. - [Enes] This is why it can take up to 18 months to build one of these planes and each build is just as complex to produce. - So the 18 month timeframe our more custom configurations. With the serialized production and with the other products that quite a lot. I always say the best day is the day they leave to a happy customer. That is, that is the best - It's fascinating to see how they set themselves a start to finish to author and it really shows in the build quality of these ACJ TwoTwenties. (upbeat music) Now let's focus on the dining area here, again we have four seats. The leather palette is so you have a different contrast. Your main dining area, it folds down and they can actually extend and bridge the gap here so that eight people can dine on this side. And let me tell you, to fly on this plane and experience what's like to be treated like a - Definitely. and it was genuinely out of this world. You would assume that this plane is like any other business Between the comfort, the level of service and the curation of this plane creates a truly I mean it didn't even It felt like we were at our home getting five star service 30,000 feet up in the air. I don't know if that's how the experience was, but - It really was. around in a living room setting while like 30,000 feet up in the air. So it was a little like weird at first but it also felt so normal. - It's so quiet inside- - You can comfortably talk to each other, interact and then they have this as well where they're and it's moisture level so it doesn't feel like you're actually on land, you don't really feel the jet lag, the overall experience is better. Basically Comlux and and went, how can we improve And they did it. They built that product. - [Cody] They really did. And honestly one of the best the wifi speed, crazy fast, - 50 megabits per second, And yeah, we can keep but we gotta continue our tour. We have two more seats on this side, Cody let's actually show some of its features here. Obviously you can move, you can extend and when you want to go you just hit this button, there we go. And you can also swivel and change your direction so you can talk to the people on the other side. - The swivel function's really cool, - Super cool, super easy to And now let's continue our tour. We got so much more to see. Now this is the second section of the main lounge where Another 4K TV and then on the other side we have more electro chromatic windows. In fact, I wanna show this in person. So cool, just keep hitting, keep dimming and eventually the blackout rolls down. - [Cody] This is why I always love flying on like commercial Airbus planes because sometimes you'll get lucky and you'll get the new ones - Yeah. but this system is cool. I also love how they into one seamless window. It just makes it feel - Exactly. And the way they position these seats, even though they're it feels so much more And then you have your cup I mean they thought of everything and obviously this main lounge relax, enjoy your company. But if you want to take you open up the door on this side and go into the bedroom suite. Now in this room we have two built-in sofas that are motorized. So a push off a button, you sofas and turn them into full-sized beds. The crew onboard will set it up for you and once it's all set up, it's about 120 centimeters So it's around a full-sized bed and you can basically turn this which is fantastic. On top of that we have these and wireless chargers. And the wireless chargers on in the cabinetry. So I wanted to mention that and think about flying to London, being able to sleep here. Not to mention we have a full bathroom that we're gonna see in a second. It is basically categorized but you really have the functionality and qualities of a wide body jet. And on top of that, it's and operate much cheaper than It's a really unique package. It fills a really interesting void and that's really what - [Cody] Definitely. to me the most is given it's only takes up the as a regular Gulf Stream. And we all know like parking during peak like seasons, and with its size you can also So you can go to these and not have to like - And when you look at it was designed as a regional plane, but Airbus equipped this plane with four additional fuel tanks. So you get that long range but you still have a very compact aircraft where you have every single In fact, you can store up and up to a 100 plus and personal items, which And yeah, this is your bedroom and when you're ready you go to the bathroom. I mean having a bathroom like this in an aircraft is incredible. You have so much space, storage area. In fact we have a massive cabinet here. Toiletries are nicely laid out. And then we have the oversized vanity here with a chrome fixture, LED lit mirror, more toiletries on this side And then we have the toilet But the highlight of this shower that's on this side. I mean this is stunning. You have a rain head above, and you can use this which is absolutely insane. - [Cody] It's so insane. The thought of showering in a plane just doesn't register with me. But for someone that's after you land, having this - Well said. this aircraft is designed and and maximize every single and travel experience. From the time you step in, and get back out to your life. Every single moment It is the ultimate expression (dramatic music) (thoughtful music) - We started developing when we had multiple mockups obviously our flight all adding their input to People who are used to the are really taken aback and turn right to look at the interior and truly take it all in. The cabin size, the acoustic level, everything is what our customers expect in a much larger aircraft. Overall systems complexity, you know, from my standpoint and this strikes the right balance of the latest technology (bell dinging) You know, as you mentioned, of the unique cabins. We don't plan to do one What's standing behind a clean sheet design. Using technology from the 2000's. And that truly is making it so much different from These are bespoke, they are, They will take time to complete. You're not gonna be able to and see five of these, ever. They're standalone products. There's not gonna be that many made. Again, to experience - And there was one and it was for us to fly and (dramatic music) I think this is the smoothest in my life, by far. That was insane. We didn't even feel like It's so quiet. (dramatic music) To people out there the ACJ difference, how - For me, because I started my career in very small business jets, It's all about the size. It's the width of that height. When you go side to side and you're still at that and you don't have to crouch your seat and you stand head on a PSU or having to go to the side. To me that is the ultimate (dramatic music) - So they just set up Let's go have a look. We have a shrimp salad, salmon plate, caviar, burrata with tomatoes And what an experience for enjoy five star service, This is pretty insane. This plane's level of comfort to a commercial airliner Between the amount of space interact with your friends and family and the amenities you have to provide the ultimate - [Voice On Radio] Clear to (bells chiming) - [Voice On Radio 2] 50 40. 30. 20. (airplane engine roaring) (airport pilot speaking) What a flight it was. Pairing this experience with flexibility to fly wherever and the comfort you experience perspective on what a flight can be. I can really see why people and how we would elevate and compliment their lifestyle. - As you've seen, we are and it's not just based In the near term as well, to closing the deal on a few more projects that'd be very happy to come back and tell you But overall, Comlux is on a growth trajectory every And the market is responding and filling up our future So it's very exciting. - The ACJ TwoTwenty is exceptional. The comfort, sophistication and build quality of and it really shows itself. It's fascinating that that we spent at Comlux facilities, we've gone to take a deep dive into the world of private aviation and see how they manufacture For Comlux to be self-sufficient outfitting and selling And to see this many and customized for their clients in one place is a rare site. They truly are engineering luxury here and we're excited to be part of it. Special thanks to Comlux to their facilities and their new ACJ TwoTwenty business jet. We look forward to sharing And as always, if you enjoy this video, make sure to give us a like, subscribe and we'll see you on the next one. (dramatic music)