Seasoned leaders have naturally incorporated confidence into their communication styles and it's completely natural. Without it the alternative to that is that some professionals struggle to even appear confident. In this video, I'm gonna be sharing five public speaking hacks so that you can sound more confident as a leader. And I'm gonna be sharing them as five principles, and they're the ABCs. So I'm gonna be going down the alphabet from A, B, C, D to E. So by the end of it, if you are a team leader, if you are leading teams or managing teams or multiple teams, beneath you, that you can sound and appear more confident. Public speaking. Hack A A stands for agility is the entrance to integration. So that might sound really complex, but I'm gonna break it down for you. Agility, what do I mean by that? I'm referring specifically to response agility, your responses to individuals as a leader, as a team leader, you're responding to your direct reports, you're responding to stakeholders, you're responding to your higher ups as well. You're responding across beneath, diagonally, and above you. So this requires a lot of response agility. Why is that? It's because no matter who you are interacting with on an any given basis, the context changes, the relationship changes, the hierarchy changes, and the value structures change as well. So this requires a high degree of response, agility, which means you are flexible in how you respond to other people's comments, how you respond to their questions, how you respond to their emotional cues, and more importantly, how you respond in how you show up in front of them as well. So this requires a lot of thinking on your feet. This requires also that you have a high degree of emotional intelligence, that you have managed your own emotions to be able to show up in this way, cuz without that, without that emotional intelligence, this is where we become disintegrated. We have less, we're less able to have that flexibility in our responses because absent emotional intelligence, we respond in response to our own emotional wounds, our own emotional hurts, our own emotional concerns and worries and so on and anxieties. So this, this is the number one obstacle to response flexibility, right? So this is public speaking hack A is having that agility and that is the entrance to your own integration. Integration of yourself into your whole and integration of all the teams that you are a part of as well. And by the way, I'm only talking about response agility right now, but there are actually two more types of agility that is gonna be important for you as a leader. And I'm gonna be sharing those two types as a bonus at the end of this video. And I'm not gonna share that right now because right now we're just talking about public speaking hacks. But these two agilities are also equally as important as a leader. Stay tuned to the end of this video and I'll share those to you at that time. Public speaking hack letter B, and that is brevity is the essence of intelligence. One can convey a lot more messages, a lot deeper and wisdom in messages simply by minimum use of language. Now this piece of wisdom in terms of brevity came all the way back from the 16 hundreds by Shakespeare. Shakespeare was the playwright who wrote Hamlet. In the book Hamlet, there was a character named Polonius, and he was known for his famous quote. And he said that brevity is the soul of wit, it's the soul of wit. In other words, it is the essence of intelligence. Have you ever noticed that if you have a speech and you've prepared your speech, you took a long time to prepare for your speech and you put your heart and soul into it, have you ever noticed that it takes a lot more time and a lot more mental resources to make it shorter? And that's because in order to make it shorter, we are essentially minimizing using minimum language. And that requires a great deal of intelligence to convey that much. But you've also heard this saying that less is more. And that is certainly the case when it comes to having brevity. That is the essence of intelligence. How you can convey so much more just by minimizing your use of the language. And how do you do that? By going back to principles, understanding the principles you have been implying in your industry, understanding the principles that you have taught field tested to be true and that have been be able to achieve the successes as a result of application of those principles. When you speak and when you present in accordance to principles and when you think in the principles, this is what allows you to be able to exercise that brevity is the soul of wit. So if you're thinking about this and you're nodding your head and you realize that a lot of great leaders have that, they are brief, they are to the point, they are also able to convey deep messages in that manner. And that is a natural com confidence in their communication style. If you're noticing this and you're wondering, well, how do I apply my principles? How do I know what my principles are? Then I invite you to work with me every single week I train about this. How do you think in principles way, how do you make your speeches, how do you communicate in ways that convey confidence? And if you are interested and seriously committed to that level of professional development, then I invite you to book a call with my team. Beneath this description, there is a link for you to send an application and one of ours is gonna get on a call to really explore whether or not it's gonna be the right fit. And if it is, you can come join a elite group of professionals all walks of life and you can train on this skillset because I believe that when it comes to communicating public speaking leadership, these are all skills that are trainable and transferrable. So if you're serious about that, sending your application, I look forward to working with you on the inside. Public speaking hack letter C. C stands for courage. Courage is the enhancer of influence. Let's face it. As a team leader, one of the most important things is to be able to elevate your influence, your influence. Because as you go up in an organization, it's gonna be less and less about your technical skills, less and less about the knowledge you have accumulated in your college degrees, in your training as well. To do the technical work. It's gonna be less and less about that, and it's gonna be more and more about how do you navigate the culture of the organization? How do you navigate its politics? How do you navigate the interpersonal relationships? It's gonna be more and more about that. And the higher you go up in an in an organization and the higher you aspire to go up, the more those skill sets are going to be increasingly more important. And let's face it, communications forges into the unknown. Especially as you get into executive leadership positions, you're forging into the unknown. Every time you communicate, every time you assert your influence, you're forging into the unknown. And the unknown is such a prevalent scenario because anytime you speak, you're gonna have people who disagree with you. You're gonna have people who criticize you, you're gonna have people who challenge your stance. You're gonna have people to outright oppose you as well. So as a leader, one of the most important things is to embrace that knowing that when every time you share an idea, sometimes people agree, sometimes people disagree, sometimes people have praises for you, sometimes people have criticisms. There's going to be both challenge and support. And this requires courage to have that recognition. Courage to be able to pursue that despite the challenges, despite the criticisms to be able to pursue that because that is what is meaningful meaningfulness in a career path, in a, in a personal growth journey. Meaningfulness means that there is both challenge and support. There is both criticism and there is both praise. And so your ability to have that courage, to embrace those and to pursue your mission, even if through the pains and pleasures, this is your pathway to influence. Public speaking hack letter D, dispassion is the enabler of interaction. So what do we mean by that? Dispassion dispassion is the opposite of passion. When you are passionate, you feel a lot of passion, which are strong emotions. This is your amygdala, the emotional, the limbic centers of your brain are lighting up, they're firing up, and you feel strongly about something. When you're passionate, you pursue things because they are pleasure, pleasing, or you avoid things because they are displeasing. So this is a very passionate pursuit. Our impulses and instincts are in there and we are listening to them. We are firing up and listening to impulses and instincts. We are impossibly trying to pursue things that bring us pleasure, that bring advantages or benefits, and we are trying to avoid things, having anxiety around things that are displeasing, that are challenging and so forth. So these are our passions. Now being dispassionate is the exact opposite. Now, by the way, do not confuse dispassion, with being nonchalant, it is very different. Dispassion simply means that you aren't. You aren't bound by your strong emotions. It's not about living by and making decisions based on strong emotions we feel from our amygdala, it's not about making decisions based on impulses and instincts. It is making decisions from an impartial standpoint. When you are dispassionate, you are impartial. This is where you are making decisions from the executive centers of your brain, which is very different from making decisions based on your amygdala or limbic centers of your brain. Your executive centers are more rational, they are more objective. This is where you can see both sides of things. I can see why this is a benefit. I can also see the drawbacks. I can also see the challenges and there's the support as well. But I know what my mission is and I'm gonna pursue it nonetheless because this mission is very meaningful to me. And this mission is aligned with who I am and the things that I am inspired to achieve for my life and for the company in which I work. And that is a dispassionate response dispassion. And this really enables interactions because when you are dispassionate, you're impartial. And when you're impartial, you're not judging others, you're not judging yourself as well. You're not blaming others, blaming self, you're also not a victim of your circumstances in that moment you are present and poised. When you're present and poised, you can truly interact with others as they are and as yourself, you bring your whole self to work. You bring your whole self as a leader of your team. And this is one of the most important keys to public speaking hacks, how to sound and to appear confident as a leader. Public speaking hack letter E. This is engagement is the expressway to interrelation. So what does this mean? Have you ever noticed that someone who is naturally confident, a seasoned leader, who has naturally integrated confidence in their communication style, that seasoned leader does not need other people to confirm that they're confident. They don't need other people to praise them of their confidence. They don't need other people to even agree or even state that they're confident because they know that they are. So when it comes to appearing that way, a natural confidence, it's not about needing to impress somebody. It's definitely not about needing them to tell you who you are and tell you how you're feeling because this is a heightened sense level of self-awareness. So this is what truly enables you to engage with your audience. Engagement is the expressway to interrelations. So as a leader, interrelations are going to be key interrelation across, beneath and above and diagonally from you. So the best way to have that heightened level of engagement is to ask great questions. One of the most important skill sets of a leader in communicating to communicate well we listen well to be able to be a great orator we listen well as well. And when we listen, we observe. So asking great questions allows you to observe and to listen to those people you are going to be communicating with. And when you listen to them, you are preparing, you are better able to be a great communicator in front of them. Now if you're wondering, well, how do I know how to think of good questions? How do I know what are good questions? At the end of this video, I'm gonna share that with you. So stay tuned for that. At the end of this video, I'm gonna talk about how to ask great questions. Now, earlier at the start of this training, I talked about agility. Do you remember it was letter A, public speaking letter A, where I talked about there is pro, there is response agility. And I said that there's two other types of agility that are crucial for leaders. Now I wanna share with you what they are. Now, these are the two extra ones. So this is the bonus one, the first one is processing agility. And this is your ability to be able to be flexible in your perceptions. This is gonna be your ability to be flexible and agile in response to your observations. This is called processing agility. How do you process what you see? How do you process your emotions? How do you process it so that your perspectives are truly seeing what is and not a judgment of what is? So that's the first one, processing agility. The second one is learning agility. Cuz as I mentioned right at the beginning of this video, as you go up and step into higher levels of leadership in the executive levels, it's gonna be less and less about what you know technically and less about less and less about what you can do and what you've been good at on the technicals front. But it's gonna be more and more about learning what is the cultural context of this organization? What are the relationships involved? What are the politics? How do people respond in terms of power and authority? Where are the power and authority? So this is learning agility. Can you exercise flexibility in what you are to learn? Cuz chances are, if you have been in the past, really good at what you did on the technical areas, then chances are right now it is a, it is tempting to focus on that. Continue focusing on that because it's your strength, it's something that you have been inspired by. It's something that brought you success in the past. So this learning agility is how do we move away from that and identify areas where I do need to start learning because I'm in a higher level of leadership now in order to be, for me to be successful it's more about the interrelations, the culture and the politics and the power and the authority and so on, right? So learning agility, processing agility, those are the two bonuses. Add that onto letter A, which is your response agility. So those are the three types of agility that is important as a leader. And I also promised to you that I was gonna share with you a framework on how do you ask great questions. I have recorded a whole training on that and that video is coming right up next, how to ask good questions and improve your communications. Stay tuned and I'll see you there.