Let's pause here. I'm driving on the road Right here. It's the border that If you're born in Haiti, you're as a baby than if you're born in the DR. You'll be almost ten times poorer and you can expect to have a much shorter I came here to find out how the two countries that share this one island can volatile and impoverished Haiti on one Dominican Republic on the other. How did this line produce two totally different worlds? My journey starts here, at this beach merchants, most of them women, are The women boarding this boat have one goal: be let into a Dominican market, to buy It's international trade at its because the next door mountain range These worn-out wooden boats have been for decades and yet the process remains happening for the first time. All of this energy, time, and effort all to transport a handful of goods that, in most inside one of these. We make this seven-hour journey to the The sun rises and we walk to the border as a partnership between the two nations, to give vendors from both sides a place to buy and sell on equal footing. As we approach the border I quickly realize that's not what's happening here. So I'm looking across the border right now, into the market and you can see that This is one of the big complaints of the waiting to cross the border and the meanwhile the Dominicans are able to set These Haitians come from miles away on this grueling is very grueling, and they get to the They're supposed to open it up for The guards keep the Haitian women from long it will be. The tension grows and were allowed to enter, the guards open up They buy and sell for the day, before The grueling boat journey, the asymmetry that exists on this island. to ask how it got like this. There are a island produced two very different very root of it you have to go back to European powers: France and Spain. This Christopher Columbus set up a colony in in like 1490. France wanted a piece of resources like sugar and coffee, so they ended up splitting the island in two: one Santo Domingo and the other side would Saint-Domingue, just in French. And that is this whole thing, is how these imperial The French exploited the they were interested in making Saint-Domingue solely an economic producer. They destroyed the soil from aggressively year, and they created a group of very that eventually rebelled. The Spanish had domination on this island by massacring exploit it like the French did. Instead they went to places like Mexico and Peru, to look for gold. So they didn't bring nearly as many slaves onto this island, and as a result they weren't nearly as profitable a colony. Instead, the Spanish integrated with the remaining indigenous population, by recognizing the native leader's authority and intermarrying with the locals. The result was a smaller and more racially mixed with a sustainable economy and a political system, something totally absent from This becomes really important in the Haiti declares independence, declares itself the first black, former They do so with very little framework for a society with land that has been exploited, year basically destroys the fertility of the And to add to all of that, because they were this first black Republic, the The United States didn't want to recognize They thought it might become a slave empire The French showed up on Haitian shores us a debt for all of the assets that you all these economic assets, it over the next thirty years. This years, but it really hampered their This history doesn't exonerate the dictators and corrupt development since its independence, but Suffocating embargoes and the independence debt, as investment in governmental institutions, moment it was born, and a racist world That racism isn't just embedded into Haiti's history, it is in As I drive up the border, by coincidence my driver is also We have hours in the car, where he slowly immigration policy has changed in the &quot;Regularization Program&quot;. That's a euphemism. He's talking about a policy of targeting anyone of Haitian and deporting them. sentiment in the Dominican Republic, but since 2010, that sentiment has been Constitution that was drafted in 1929, automatically a citizen, even if your This is the same in places like the constitution in 2010, to only give Then, in 2013 the high definition would be applied 1929, meaning any citizen who had been would have their citizenship revoked. More than 200,000 Dominican citizens, were suddenly stateless. It is clearly an illegal act, it is an Dominican government. And it's happening Dominican law said that if these DR, they would have to go to a government foreigner registry. The government gave their name on the registry or face Over 55,000 have been officially deported since the The UN estimates that 128,000 a country many of them have never lived in. border, where they've been living in The moment I cross into the DR, I start On a 75km bus ride, we pass eight personnel board the bus, to eye who was on But each time we stop, they seem to only That's my translator, Pascale. He's an American security forces keep asking him Halfway through the journey, we pull off the road into a facility where a few young military guys are sitting around. And our driver brings the military guys. She's speaking in claiming that her children are Dominican checkpoint to turn her in because she's None of this seems to matter, she doesn't have her papers and her skin Haiti's land and people were abused The world then shunned it, with embargoes and nation, and today Haitians in the DR to be enshrined in law. As we drive up this very curvy road, I Back when the French were here, this but that came at a price. Not only to abused slaves, but also to the land that they worked. Clear cutting and French left, but instead of being used to were burned to cook food. This explains what I'm seeing when on my right there's lush jungle. and on my left Zoom out a little bit and it's very clear. I follow the border road all the way north, to see if the same discriminatory This market was built and the UN development program, with the specific intention of creating a space where communities from both sides could come and buy and sell on equal footing. Rolling through the market, and the Dominicans are first setting up. I walk to the border and find this huge group of people at this gap in the The dynamic is the same as down and border guards who seem to have no After hours of waiting for guards to the Haitians are finally let in. This is a story about a border that but it's moreso a story about policy: how centuries of racist policies, from the French, from the U.S., from the world, Haiti, this first black predatory and racist policy from outside For Haitians this story isn't just their history. It's their present. It's the stage on which they live their lives. So, I want to say a big thank you to lululemon, who is a sponsor for Borders. They sent me these ABC pants, which are these really versatile, flexible pants. They're super sturdy, and they're meant to be basically used for hiking and for activewear, but also around the house when I'm kind of just hanging out, I've been using them for both as I've been making Borders. I love them. Thank you lululemon for sending me these pants, but more importantly thank you for sponsoring Borders and making this happen. If you want to try out some lululemon ABC pants, You could get a pair of your own. You should definitely check that out.