Deltas, marshlands, rivers, are essential links between aquatic These great wetlands play Whether in the water, an exceptional array of flora However, living in these wetland worlds The powerful water cycle with a relentless hand. In Gabon, in the Loango National Park, gorillas, elephants, hippopotamuses, must adapt to rainy periods and to others when water can be scarce. In order to survive, the animals have no other choice During the month of July, the wild Gabonese coast is the scene This is the time will be able to watch the acrobatic ballet The Loango National Park where earthbound It spreads out southwest of Gabon, from the Atlantic coast In this equatorial zone, where the rainy season the flood and drought periods endlessly reshape Here, prairies merge with the beach, and mangroves Loango is one of the few places on Earth to offer a concentration To the west, the mangroves and lagoons leave room Periodically flooded forests stretch out towards the east. Finally, the south is the kingdom We are now in the middle which lasts from June to September. The coastal savannas Their sandy soil A few days are enough These savannas don't have much Snout glued to the ground, the most beautiful pigs in the world finding the bulbs or larvae they relish. The river hogs will need to move The buffaloes follow in their wake toward the cooler coastal prairies At the risk of missing the exodus, a couple of latecomers This is the ideal mating period. The females will be able to give birth in four months. There will be At the end of July, clouds pass by Day after day, the mattress of leaves loses humidity. Forest wildlife wanders around young shoots, or waterholes. Forest elephants They will need to find supplies elsewhere. The prolonged shortage of precipitation is the death of ponds and streams. In August, One after the other, the elephants will leave deeply hidden in the second-largest after the Amazon forest. Little by little, or the southern swamps. On the beaches sprayed by the sea, the little red buffalos It is impossible to draw the limits During the dry season, for example, the sea and fish take advantage to rush inland, while the small red buffaloes and graze the beach plants. Out at sea, Over a thousand humpback whales during their migration They came here to mate in the warm waters At the end of July, In these highly flooded areas, the rivers have finally left the land In some places, their level has already decreased Loic Makaga, a Gabonese naturalist, are part of an observation mission about the movements of wildlife The hippopotamuses are back where the grass grows abundantly. For Loic, In this area, intensive poaching We could say that all the grass here When you come during the damp season, You can navigate with a boat here. During the rainy season, You can see by looking For example, here you can clearly see The same here. You can see algae, which proves that this tree for nine months of the year. See, it's rather high. Installing cameras helps to understand better during the dry season. When it reaches that level, The footage confirms have abandoned the forest However, that are even more discreet. The first one As high as the towers the moabi tree and its branches can span up to 50 meters. It has become a rare tree. See. This species We call it the Giant of Africa. These marks were made by elephant tusks. They're not only interested in the fruit When a branch falls off, the whole thing. These trees grow in secondary forests The Congo Basin who are also endangered. Flatland gorillas are mistrustful They're different from their close cousin, with a slightly smaller size They move discreetly as a family. This mother and baby to roam the forest in search of food. During the dry season, the dearth of fruit forces the great apes on a territory It's getting increasingly difficult In August, the forest is almost soundless. Three meters above the ground, this cluster of folded leaves Removing a sample of hair will help identify At the height of the dry season, the gorillas move to the swamps where Amaranthaceae such as these papyrus. Look, this is the part of the papyrus It's soft and tender. That's what they like. The decrease in water level These usually inaccessible aquatic plants Loic returns regularly to the camp which is an hour's walk away English, German, studying the exceptional wildlife Day after day, Ponds and waterholes are drying out. These silt puddles and an ideal spot However, these mud shrouds, to the main watercourse, Deprived of precipitation, However, appearances are misleading. Although their skin is cracking, their insides remain damp thanks to the alluvium In the space of a few days, these grounds, will become a prairie. More cameras help to identify Activity is highest at night. At the end of a long march, most of the animals where grass has sprouted in the mud. Sitatungas, genets, and water hogs In the moist early morning, misty images who prefer to spend the night away from predators. Just like the gorillas, white-collared cercocebus However, the troops have already Slightly smaller these forest elephants Their infallible sense of smell guides them toward the large, They can at last that they need daily. During the dry season, The migratory birds are back. The weavers have colonized along the great swamps. The mating season To build a spherical nest, the males choose a forked branch They use the vertical circle they weave Competition is tough, and a number of constructions for lack of consenting females. The small groups of forest buffaloes In these damp areas, their heavy treading disturbs clouds Now is a time of abundance Here, like everywhere else, Attracted by the concentration of species the leopard has left the dark network He will patiently wait These water hogs The coastal strip for some of the herbivores. However, even here, the leopard prowls. At the end of August, the river pigs leave to settle down by the sea. They are back to roam the sand beaches. The ghost crabs They are on alert, flanked by the small sharks on one side The water hogs will be able Only the crabs who dig the deepest holes to escape from these bulldozers. To do so, they need to bury a meter Four full moons have gone by At the end of September, the impending return In this equatorial region, Starting October, but the torrential rains Once again, algae and ferns In the space of only a few days, and the rivers overflow, giving the fish free rein Every year, almost 2.5 meters of water Elephant, hippopotamus, leaving room to write future stories Water filters carrying in its wake that will feed the plains Paradoxically, this damp season is the sunniest The water will feed the soil Vegetation explodes. The trees, gorged with water and light, and will soon offer a profusion That's a sure sign. The gorillas have abandoned that are now completely flooded. When 180 kilos of muscle it's best not to venture Scientific observation has shown but zigzag following the seasons through the maze of ecosystems The great male shows unswerving vigilance because the ripe fruit attracts intruders and is coveted by many. Even though he is sated, he won't tolerate The strong perfume of the fermented fruit This heavyweight The clash of the titans won't happen. Not only but he can also bite ferociously. During the month of November, Loango Park receives as much precipitation Rapidly, the rivers drown out the surrounding prairies. In December, The ponds refill. The complex Loango water network, has favored the emergence Within this drowned world, As he walks, this elephant sculpts Then the seeds he scatters In this vegetal labyrinth, pachyderms open the trails On a large scale, However, 62% of the forest elephants for their ivory in ten years. The extinction of the species After a few weeks, The prairies are navigable again, The weaver's dormitory lies abandoned. The floodwaters have no impact These sandy grounds, turned green in no time. Shyly, yellow-backed duikers, repopulate these open spaces, where the rich grass The gravid females while their fellow creatures in search of proteins. In turn, the buffaloes gather Approximately 30 females The yellow-billed oxpeckers and savoring the parasites The rainy season attracts large colonies on the coastal savannas. They came here to enjoy and to dig burrows In February, these migratory birds On these Gabonese beaches, one of the largest leatherback sea turtle was recently uncovered. It was a common belief that these giants, had disappeared. The Loango beaches are the ideal location They provide constant temperature Fifteen thousand leatherback sea turtles to find shelter While sojourning in Africa, they will come back here to lay hundreds of eggs It will take several years Buried more than a meter turtle eggs are far from safe. This nest was ransacked during the night. Ghost crabs However, this time, A victim of its bulimia, It must immerse itself in the waves which has risen dangerously Wedged between the long sand littoral the lagoons, bloated from several weeks The next downpours might be fatal. If the change in climate the great rain calendar, when they do finally arrive, their intensity will upset The powerful rise in water level Breaches open up in the lagoons, liberating an avalanche of stagnant water, dragging many fish along. The lagoon bottoms and they have completely rich with forest tannins. The mangrove trees' feet, attract the white-collared cercocebus. On the exposed roots of the trees, they find food that is never accessible oysters. Abandoned to themselves the young crocodiles will need to adapt and the amount of fish available. Their mothers don't have so many worries. Their hunting territory way beyond the mangroves. In this perpetually moving environment, the mudskipper who doesn't suffer It can easily skip Unlike humans, who carry air in bottles this amphibian holds water in its gills. It can also breathe through its skin, which allows it to remain Now it's the coastal forest's turn and the elephants know it. In small groups, The giants of the earth where pioneering plants grow. On these sand strips whipped by the winds, They are also fond of iboga leaves, In this perpetually moving environment, the animals are forced This immobile foot soldier on stilts has adapted to periods and to others in soft water. Its halophytic root system and withstand At the end of November, through the effect of the roller waves the coastal lagoons and filled up with fresh water. They are enticing to the hippopotamus. At the end of the rainy season, a unique phenomenon in the animal realm The nocturnal prowl of this juggernaut, leaving the lagoon to dive into the sea, It's almost impossible to capture. Saltwater is not a problem equipped with watertight nose valves. It even helps them float better. The hippopotamus without having to walk from one prairie The Loango National Park As a true architect the water cycle has contributed and helped species Here, man has made but for how long? This great damp zone is vulnerable and coveted for its oil, wood,