Disney World and Disneyland. The quintessential American vacation. There is something about the energy in a Disney park at I hate to use the word magical, but it kind of. There's something about it. A place where magic comes to life. Where childhood memories are made. A trip to Disney for parents and for little kids is rite of passage in this country, practically. From the early days of Frontierland and Pirates of the Galaxy's Edge, the Disney parks have brought in guests I mean, who can forget their first step onto Main The castle, the characters, the food, the balloons, cost. How much? What's happening now is Disney is an incredibly experience. Disney's park prices are up. More on average than in a normal year. And a one day base level ticket to Disney World was $89 in 2012, and averages averaged $147 in 2022, and that the growth rate of that cost has been annually. But in its Q3 2024 results, Disney reported dropping 3% year-over-year, a concerning trend from blow to a stock that's down more than 15% in six The price hikes at parks was enormous over the last few Same for some of the food. You know, just every every time they could they would If that consumer is just pushing back on that. Disney blamed the slip in performance on a softening they thought it would be. An issue it said could not immune to what is becoming an industry wide issue. Universal's parent company, Comcast, saw a nearly 11% in that same quarter. Certainly, there are going to be questions about the ahead of itself in its pricing. Above the entrance to the Disneyland park, there was a come to this happy place, welcome. And we focus our energy on the all. But is it really? Or is it a trip to Disney just getting too expensive Parks is huge as an investor for Walt Disney Parks revenue, but it's two thirds or 65% of their total When it comes to Disney's profits, its park business In Q3 2020 2024, Disney's domestic parks brought in 3% increase from the year prior. However, its operating income for the same period Everything post Covid is going through the roof because because of Covid, and now they have to make up also a Given the linear television has been disappointing business for the last decade. It stands to reason that Disney might have responded aggressively in order to prop up its financial While Disney acknowledged a slowing consumer noted saw an uptick in guest spending at the parks due For things like food or merchandise, or upgraded park skip lines. There are lots of ways Disney gets you to Over the past ten years, the average cost for a Disney 56%, well above the national rate of inflation. And that, of course, doesn't include the cost of food, At a glance looking at how the Disney experience has average person to jump into. This is Jake Williams. He's a YouTuber and travel blogger and set out this too expensive? So he went to Disney World and compared trip in 2017. So when we add everything up the hotel, the park, the for a single day at Disney for two adults came out to $886 USD. The exact same trip in 2017 would have cost a total of That's almost a $320 difference between two trips. That's a 44% increase in just seven years, far is around 24% since 2017. The park experience also feels more crowded and worse being less people in the parks this year. We're back to a point where things should be returning experience following that trend. But while prices on everything from hotels and photo Disney Parks has kept its lowest ticket tier stable That's $109 for a single day single park ticket on off When you begin to think about, you know, inflationary those components that weigh on consumers, we hear that that with, again, offers or ways for people to go come on Thursday and the price is one number on a on a Tuesday and the price is a different number. There's flex flexibility and options for our guests. And I think that's what they're now being more careful Another frustration from Disney goers -- over the past previously free amenities, things like the fast pass then again by Disney Plus, and now Lightning Lanes, And those previously free MagicBands given to resort Even the free shuttle bus between the Orlando airport private for-cost bus company. When you look at all the stuff that they've they've complimentary altogether, that to me seems You know, there's no benefit to the consumer. But what about guests that are going for more than one With Disney World four parks and Disneyland's two, packaging park hoppers, lightning lanes, resort stays, The average cost of a five-night Disney World vacation around $5,000. Comparatively, a high-end trip to Mexico costs around Disney has positioned a multi-day trip to Disney World upper middle class luxury travel, and priced it The median annual income in the United States is family of four bringing in an average salary would multi-day trip to Disney World. Continues to be a premium experience. That puts pressure on the more price sensitive cohort want to go there and struggle with the cost. Of course, Disney isn't the only theme park to raise A one day single park ticket at Universal Studios to $179, an increase of up to $20 in just one year. Keeping pace with Disney World one day ticket average three day, four night trip for a family of four to comparable to an even longer five night trip at Disney But while parks like Universal Studios Orlando see to stabilize its annual visitation post-pandemic, visitation fully recover. Universal can rise above it because it rides on coattails. Disney parks are the primary driver of people make the decision to visit, Universal is an them. And in that way, it's interesting to consider succeed without a Disney nearby. I think it's fair to say that attendance and prices if it weren't drafting off of the visitation driven by So then that begs the question -- if it's gotten too this? The power of the Disney brand and their connection with many American families is so strong that there's to go into debt to go to one of these parks. A recent survey of 2000 people by LendingTree found 45% under 18 who visited a Disney park took on debt to do If we broaden that out to all Disney goers, almost a to visit the parks, a trend that's actually not Another survey found 36% of U.S. travelers plan to take on debt for their summer trips There's so much pressure to a degree that parents put And there's also kind of the keeping up with the It is expensive just to get in the park at Disney. Then you have hotels and airfare and on down the line. Disney World or Disneyland, depending upon your parent. But just how much debt are people taking on? The average family with young kids is taking on a $2,000 in debt, and all Disney goers who are taking on are taking on between $1600 and $1700. For many park goers, the added debt is worth it. 59% of those who took on debt for Disney said they had into what some would consider good debt. For a lot of people, the pandemic kind of changed their things, and they made them think of how fragile life be. So if there's something that they want to do, starting a small business or anything in between. A lot of people are still saying, you know what, I'm No better time than now. And this brings up another question -- do higher prices Well, according to that same survey, yes. When it came to people who had never visited a Disney respondents said cost was the number one factor. Most of the spending at Disney World is done by middle families. Clearly, a lot of Americans are willing to take on a this sort of trip. We also see that for maybe more Americans, that extra cost, that extra debt that they'd be bringing on But what about Disney's super fans, the die hards, Are higher prices turning them away? I'm a long-term Disney passholder, and, you know, a probably 50 or 60 trips in the last 25 years or so. So when I first was able to go as a young adult, you And it really started a love of, you know, allocating This is Brian Brennan. Brennan was a Disney Passholder for almost 20 years, a trips to Orlando every year. The math would work out to where, oh, it's a better dining. I get free parking, so the perks times the financially viable. That is until this past year when he decided not to Then they took the fast passes away. Then they took the extra magic hours away. And then suddenly you wake up one day and you go, you at restaurants isn't necessarily adding up to the away. There is a sunk cost fallacy with with Disney where so much of their identity is associated with Disney in It's hard to admit when the company is diluting what And after canceling his annual pass, Brendan has Lately, I've found a lot of value in going on a cruise. I'm going to go on this beautiful ship, and they're and they're going to take me to Bermuda. And I couldn't even, you know, get into a Disney Forget the food, forget the tickets, you know, the same If you have enough money to afford to come to the Walt choices. So you're probably not coming every year. And that's the problem for Disney, catering to have more options when it comes to where they travel, vacation spots, places like Vail or the Bahamas, where thousand more. If you price it out, you can do a lot of stuff with the When going to a domestic theme park is costing more Paris, you know, it really is going to start making I think what we're seeing is consumers have a lot of decisions as to where they want to go, which means need to be smart and thoughtful about making sure appeal to their needs. The idea here is to make this wonderful beloved resort, around the world, you know, accessible to as many There are areas where Disney parks have started to make Every decision they make at this, at this corporation And so when when Bob Iger answers that question, Walt He changes something. Since returning to the helm of Disney in 2022, CEO Bob Covid-era changes that weren't the most popular with Things like bringing back free parking for resort with the new app offering additional perks to guests The notion that we give more privileges to people who people who don't stay in our resorts or only stay two Like that's really smart because it keeps money in the day, they're trying to create Disney super fans. Disney is playing an extremely long game, a lifelong Disney fans. And if families are priced out, that means less trips, Disney already announced it is raising ticket prices 2025. If you have seven days with your kid in a Disney park, you might be a super fan. But more likely, your kids are going to be super fans And that's what they're going for. And that's one group Disney Parks are actively working We have a $50 kids ticket. Children under nine can come to this park for $50. We have our lowest entry point ticket is $104. And by the way, hasn't changed in five years. The reality is, Disney parks are still the most visited visitors across all its parks in 2023. That leads us to the big question, does it matter? Disney is still the top global theme park operator in serious dent in their visitation? One of the things that we're getting time and time Our intent to return, our intent to visit. You know, people want to come here because of the value that we deliver. That is that there is not a breaking point, that people tax that is Disney. If people don't vote with their wallet and aren't vocal across the industry, not just Disney, across the whole