(typing on keyboard) (fax machine beeps) (eerie music) - [Presenter] This was the first case that really took on a life - [Presenter 2] It's a unique case because of the short She's literally, she's seen - [Reporter] Police finish for more Maura Murray with more questions than answers. - 2 days. - 1 year. - 10 years - [Presenter] Almost 20 (soft dramatic music) (ambient music) - [Maura's Brother] I It's full and clear, not just a memory left to disappear. And your smile, so full and bright, no longer hazy and distorted, an image lost to memory's fading light. So I ask, is this real? I know that time is But in this moment, than just a distant, fading memory. - Maura was my little sister. Our family grew up in the And growing up, she was making fun of my parents, making fun of me. And, but she was really caring. So when I was stationed my first year right outta West Point, she would always send me care packages and write me little letters. - Maura Murray was just someone who was real smart and athletic. Gifted as a student and And she ran cross country and track and had set records at her - Maura followed in my footsteps and she went to West Point. I would tell her and write how much I thought she would enjoy it mostly because of the physicality and as well as the academics, Once she got to West Point, she did not enjoy that So she decided after two years and pursue a nursing at the University of Massachusetts, which was quite a big pivot The day that Maura went missing was Monday February 9th, 2004. - That morning, Maura to her Professor, says there's when in fact, that's not true. She packs up her room. She has a number of belongings with her. She heads to an ATM. She withdraws most of her money She goes to a liquor store. She buys a number of bottles of alcohol, gets in her car and then heads north. But it's really not The reason she left campus is a mystery. Now what's interesting is on her computer that she to Burlington, Vermont, even though she never She does have connections - That's an area that my family has vacationed our entire life, - It's a road to Bartlett, 'cause she knows that like her backyard because we were in New Hampshire so much, at least four times a year. - About 4:30 is the last known and it was a call to check her voicemail. From 4:30 to 7:30 there was and we're not really sure - [Mike Beaudet] She in a small town called Haverhill. And it's a really windy road. She ends up going off the (tires screech) (eerie music) - We know at 7:30, there was and they said there's a car and there appears to be And then another resident came home. - I just asked her how she was. She said she was shaken up. I couldn't see any blood on her face. And she was shaken, I guess. I says, okay, I'm gonna - [Mike Beaudet] This is the that Maura Murray actually has with someone up there in New Hampshire. She says she's already called AAA. Well, this is a remarkably with limited cell service, even back then. So there's no way that she had called AAA. - So that was a red flag for him. (sirens blare) Within about 7 to 10 minutes the first police officer arrived on scene, and he arrived to a locked and that's where the nightmares started. (somber music) - When the police come back, - What happened after - The first responding officer did notice some peculiar where the Saturn was found, such as a rag in the tail pipe. There was some red liquid, that she was drinking, and there was a cracked windshield and both airbags were deployed. I don't understand why they because if she had been drinking, she was in great danger, it's February, it's New Hampshire, there's two feet of snow on the ground, and she didn't know that particular area. - She doesn't take but she does take some items. Inside the car were other including some of her books and some of equipment that she had, and also some alcohol So not all of the alcohol, but - Everything that was found in a car was indicative of her and clear her head. Although I can't be for sure, because I don't know There was no sign Maura the There was no sign of her at all. There was no footprints She just disappeared off in a 7 to 10 minute window - It just doesn't make sense. How does Maura Murray just disappear? - Nobody in my family It wasn't until the next day, Tuesday, that the law enforcement got ahold of my older sister Kathleen. Kathleen called my dad, my &quot;Why is dad's car up &quot;Why isn't she at school?&quot; And no one had any answers. So it was panic and then just Those crucial hours, from Monday night when the we consider those a missed opportunity because it was crucial. If she was around that area, that 24 hours was when, you know, her trail was hot. - I think the family was frustrated with the investigation right away. They just felt that the police that they just assumed because she wanted to disappear and that they weren't preserving this as a possible crime scene. (somber music) - Maura was 21 at the time and it's not a crime to go missing. And so they didn't treat it as such. My dad arrived about dawn on Wednesday. He wanted to join the search. So we went to the police &quot;Where's the search?&quot; You know, &quot;Where's my &quot;What do we know?&quot; And my dad essentially was the search because they hadn't done much of anything. - [Kathleen Murray] We've and we're just looking for something, somebody just took him - We're also asking the public who may have driven by the to please give us a call if someone saw her and gave her a ride because it would give us where she was. - If anybody actually saw did not see here, drove the whole road, because now we know that and she most likely accepted a ride, and, you know, we're - I say all the time that we have to keep until we find Maura. So I'm not one to completely Scent dogs followed Maura's scent about a hundred meters down the road and then her scent disappeared - There are so many theories out there, but none of them have been proven. We don't know what Where is she? Did she disappear because she wanted to? Did someone commit foul play? Did she die in the woods? We just don't know. - Everybody's here looking for you. Just go call any one of us will Don't be afraid please. (Julie Murray typing) - Maura's disappearance happened five days after Facebook launched. Initially, the internet was I don't know that we'd ever as early on as we did, so we are definitely thankful for that. That was a start of true crime when we had all the and you had this ability to actually make a and there are armchair detectives that were able to piece things together and be a positive influence on - When you have so many people like that, sharing information, it also breeds a lot a lot of different narratives, for whatever reason it is, because it's such a mystery, because there are so many unknowns, it has attracted so much attention and so much interest And it's created this atmosphere online where people have put where they've speculated, where they've wondered what - People are able to and anonymous trolling. It's been very difficult to slow that down and correct that's out online. We've got all this coverage and my family is thankful that these cases are and through engagement. However, that comes with a cost, and the cost is exploiting the tragedy, and exploiting Maura herself, and exploiting my family and - I think the frustration for the family and they we're gonna try to grab and we're going to create this website where we can put information and that we believe is factual. And so it was a way for the family to sort of regain - You won't find much clickbait or any click bait on the website. (gentle music) - This is just part of to see what's under it. And, but it's incredibly hard and it's terribly frustrating. - [Mike Beaudet] Fred since the day his daughter disappeared with the response from police. And ultimately he wanted and so he went to court to try and obtain all the records in this case. And this is a battle that went all the way to the state's highest - In his mind, if they're not And we were doing it, we were We wanted to see the files. We wanted to see her computer. We wanted to see, you know, Things in areas, not that but would help, you know, supplement it. - [Murrays' Attorney] Shouldn't the state, at the very least, concede that it's a I gather the state hasn't even done that. - We cannot, with a say that a crime has been committed. - I think she was picked up I tend to think she's no longer with us because she hasn't - You keep it a missing you never have to say anything - We want to be sure that when we find out what that if it involved a crime, that we can bring that person to justice. - The court stood by the fact that the investigators were saying that this was an active investigation, that this was an open investigation, and therefore they did not want to turn over all these records. - They released some records, They didn't help us much in any way. My dad, he led the boots and he would go up there every weekend, a lot of times by himself. And during that time, he'd get a lot of local rumors. - [Maura's Father] There's - [Interviewer] The dog lays down? - [Maura's Father] Yes. (dog barks) - [Julie Murray] And was Mara was buried in a basement. (somber music) (suspenseful music) - I remember talking to here in Massachusetts and just the agony he was going through, that he felt, this is something, that a cadaver sniffing yet the authorities are ignoring it. This was a house that the family said they in the past, but now there were new owners and they were finally able to that was in the area. The cadaver sniffing dogs go in there, two different dogs went in there, and seem to hit on this area, indicating that something might - It tells me that my daughter and that I'm powerless to dig her up and bring her home and - That was excruciating, waiting. I remember get getting with my dad about him pursue it one way and me wanting to pursue it And how can we force them to, you know, see if this is Maura - We did a number of stories on this and ultimately the authorities agreed that they would go in - There's always a level of uncertainty with something like this. I am optimistic that we That's the only thing I could pray for. - The next thing we know, there's a press conference being called - Here I am driving as fast heart beating, and they said, &quot;We're gonna have a press And so I thought, &quot;This is it.&quot; Like, they found her, this is it. You know, 'cause the dig You know, they must have found her - A team of over a dozen agents and detectives went into that basement, they cut that area, removed the concrete, and then searched several feet down and covered the entire area and beyond where that and they located absolutely nothing, other than a small piece of what looks to be potentially pottery, maybe a piece of old piping. - And I was sitting next and you could just see his It was hard to watch 'cause - I remember watching Fred and he was so frustrated. - This one hurts 'cause I This one is worse than the - I was kind of relieved because I really didn't want of Maura being buried in a cement basement so close to the accident scene. But at the same time, it's Like no answers still. (somber music) - The family has gone after another. We're going on 20 years now of waiting for them to figure out So on 2021 human remains in an area around Loon Mountain. And so once again, there's that maybe these remains - I almost fell over because from where Maura's car was found. It was just a whirlwind and thinking, &quot;Oh this So that waiting period Just sitting there And then your, your mind starts to go and think of all the and how you missed it. (wind whistling) (somber music) And then I got an email from saying the results were in and that the bones were, in fact, outside of the date range So again, you know, another We've become accustomed when we hear news like this So it's also a fine balance. - Am I realistic? I don't know, but I'm certainly gonna, I'm - We saw Fred Murray desperate and wondering where his daughter is, and then we see him five 15 years later, and we see that he and his family have gone through and still the not knowing what happened. - It keeps slogging away, same as always, not no quick. You know? There's the only to be buried is a right ground. - There are times when just random times when that's, you know, &quot;Man, Maura And it's those moments that (somber music) The number one thing that I want people to know You know, after all these documentaries, after all this talk online, after all these years, Maura is still missing. (somber music continues) - The Murray family is so committed to figuring out what - You know, I've got two awesome brothers and, you know, my sister so you know, and my mother passed away and my dad's getting older and there's people that are, you know, they're passing away without ever knowing and that's sad. We know Maura, we know each other, and we know the we're not - It's been a year! - I think people in both states, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, have rallied around the And when you look at some of where you see people from and searching in the woods, and continuing to go up really just trying to and also to help try to What always strikes me to talk about the case, but then, as you listen to Julie you realize that she believes the only way that this case is going to be solved is to continue talking about Maura Murray. Any bit of information can - I don't have the choice to walk away. I can't close my computer like, I deal with it every (somber music)