Good morning, everyone chef and owner of this restaurant, Mirazur in Menton, France at the border with Italy, where we make a very Mediterranean cuisine, that is still very personal. We have the luck of having our own gardens, also with our own hen house, so we basically produce 70% of the legumes and vegetables that we use in the restaurant. Now it's time to move to the kitchen! Good morning, I'm Donato Russo, chef de cuisine of the restaurant Mirazur here in Cote d'Azur in Menton. Today I'm showing you a great classic of French cuisine: omelette. For many it is very simple, but it presents many challenges when you want a three versions: the classic and the souffle ones. These eggs come from our garden, close to our Mirazur restaurant. As you can see, here we have different colors white, blue and brown and the classic browns because in our hen house we have more than 30 varieties of different hens. Let's now move on to the preparation of the recipe. To make one omelette, I'm adding always depending on the size. Since we're using eggs from our hen house, they're not the same size. I'm choosing them and starting The color is just about the shell, then the taste is still the same, it's just about the chromaticism and beauty of the hens we have in the hen house. We're now adding a pinch of salt inside our eggs and we're going to whip the eggs with the help of our whisk - fouetter, as it's said in French. We're whipping our eggs just enough so we're mixing so that we obtain a homogeneous mixture. After 30 seconds, our eggs are well whipped already. to the cooking of the omelette, the most Let's take our nonstick pan and place it on the flame. Usually we don't need a very strong flame, but a medium one. I'm using the 2 main fats, which are oil and butter, so I'm adding a drop of olive oil and a tip of butter. We're allowing all of the fats to melt homogeneously on the whole surface We don't need to heat it up too much, nor burn it, otherwise our omelette will not get the desired color. Once our fats incorporated, we're adding the eggs. And now, with the help of the spatula we're finishing our omelette. eggs, and at the same time to detach them from the pot to prevent them from browning, which is visually the most important aspect of to play with moving it from the flame, out of the flame. It's very important in order to have this effect of an omelette that is cooked So, we're almost done here. We'll take our pan off the flame and we'll build our base. It's also very important to always clean the borders, because this helps us detach the omelette uniformly and just once we're sure that the borders are all well detached, that the base is well formed, we'll go on to turning it upside down. We need to tilt the pan 45 degrees and with rapid hits on the handle of the pan, we're going to roll and close Before we plate, we're going to make our Parmigiano Reggiano sauce. We're weighing our Parmigiano Reggiano aged 24 months. We'll need 100 grams and with the help of a thermomix we're going to turn it to dust. Once we grated our Parmigiano Reggiano, Once we close our thermomix, we're setting it on a cooking temperature thermomix to obtain a result that is to control the temperature constantly during the preparation If you don't have the thermomix, you can make the same procedure at home with a bain Marie. Our sauce is done. OK. We're adding straight away a spoonful of cream to stop the cooking. Once our sauce is mixed, we're placing it in a container and we're now moving on to the plating. We're taking our omelette and finishing it with our Parmigiano sauce. This is a dish you can make easily at home with your friends, It's now the time to make the souffle omelette. We'll need six eggs that we're separating, whites from reds, in this way. Using a lot of strength and energy, we're beating our whites until stiff. At home, to obtain the result you're watching here, you can help yourself with an electric beater. Here we are, this is the result we need to obtain. It's holding. Let's now put our egg whites in the fridge to stabilize them. It's now time for the egg reds, that we're incorporating with flour, and we're mixing with our whisk to obtain a dough, in this way. It's actually a kind of - we could call it a custard cream. So, we're mixing first the flour with the reds, then we're incorporating add the warm milk, and we're mixing it slowly. When the dough starts becoming smooth, we're almost there, we're cleaning the borders of our We're now incorporating the whites with the reds and cooking it. The most important passage in this recipe is to mix by making this gesture very carefully, slowly. This way, very carefully. The dough for omelette souffle is now ready, nice and airy, and we're now moving to the cooking. We're placing We're adding butter and allowing it to melt slowly. Always, what is important in all kinds of omelettes, both souffle and classic, is the color. It's very important to have a color that is very very light, meaning almost white. As you can see, I used more fat matter because we need all of the sides during the cooking. Once the butter is melted, we'll take our pan off, and we'll pour the mixture. As you can see, this recipe is perfect for the pan we're using, which is 24 cm in diameter, on the flame straight away. What is important is borders, it's what allows you to detach it neatly on all sides. We cooked our omelette souffle just like the previous one, very very slowly. Now, to finish the cooking, we're moving it to the oven. The omelette souffle needs to be baked for 4 minutes at 180degC in order to cook well inside. While the souffle is baking, it's my pleasure to tell you that Parmigiano Reggiano, for the shooting of this video created a discount code that is valid in all European countries where the e-shop is active the code is PRITALIASQUISITA and gives you a 10% discount on a purchase total We're now turning We're helping ourselves with a tray, or a plate at home and we're turning it. We're now finishing our omelette with a generous dusting of Parmigiano Reggiano aged 24 months. We're going to cook our omelette au gratin in the salamander. At home, you can gratin it in the oven easily The crunchiness of the crust and also the sapidity of Parmigiano Reggiano aged 24 months and the creaminess of the eggs from the garden are a perfect combination for this omelette souffle. I hope you had fun! Donato Russo, here in Menton,