Peter Robinson: ... http://twitter.com/uncknowledge; and military historian, Victor Davis Hanson He is the author of many books including recently and Spartans fought the Peloponnesian War. Intelligence Agency as a field officer covering and author. His latest book The Devil We Know Victor - Bob, thank you for joining us. October report by the International Atomic to design and produce a workable implosion now capable of producing nuclear weapons? Robert Baer: I think absolutely. Peter Robinson: Without any doubt? Robert Baer: Oh without any doubt, I think quickly on this. We have not even seen the capacity. Picks stuff up in Eastern Europe, they wanted to. Peter Robinson: Victor do you buy that as Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah, I think the key know how much in enriched uranium and what a series of weapons. Remember the United States an arsenal atomic weapons for six months. might get perhaps two, but I think that is deals where they are offering to have other uranium. I think they are having a little Peter Robinson: Can I question. Who knows are a military historian, how do you form on. You are doing more than reading the New Robert Baer: I think everybody Peter Robinson: In other words can you form information? Robert Baer: I think you can and I think you seeing classified reporting in Iran and frankly since 1979. Peter Robinson: How recently did you see? Robert Baer: Until December, 1997 when I left the sidelines. It is not very good and the materials very easily and they are very smart they have been going back to really the 1970's. not to and that is really one of the key questions. Peter Robinson: Right. Let me quote you Bob. the Iranians do not need a nuclear bomb. The have made in Iraq and Lebanon by forcing the a nuclear weapon, they can do so quickly, Robert Baer: I think they are buying time. power and yet get themselves at the international keep on letting information out about their off and they are trying to work their way. the G20 by this, by simply forcing our hands. Peter Robinson: Victor what do you think they Victor Davis Hanson: Well I think it depends I think that they feel that the Iraqi Democracy and because of Peter Robinson: You mean after this recent Victor Davis Hanson: Exactly and Peter Robinson: They thought they were about about to get returned? Victor Davis Hanson: Well I think that the is working in somewhat stable fashion and Iran, then Lebanon did not become just entirely survived as a quasi constitutional state. at the world, we say well they are very powerful way of thinking, I think they look at Lebanon, more favorable to Israel stealthfully than on in Iraq and they think, my gosh, we are route and a bomb or two will allow us to do I do not think that they feel they are in are either. I think their regime is shaky. Peter Robinson: Give me, who actually runs people and a very, I was going to say a strange as far as I am aware, is dissimilar to certainly I am aware, it does not really have any parallel - you have an elected President, an elected they always seem to have an enormous, how Victor Davis Hanson: That changed on the 12th but there was a military coup and the country Guard Corp Peter Robinson: Which is about 100,000 strong, Victor Davis Hanson: It is a little bit more is their reserves that came out in the street. Peter Robinson: The reserves are several million? Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah, they could be several a uniform very quickly. But the besiege are the Revolutionary Guard - fully integrated. in the Defense Minister came through what history of shedding blood, particularly American the two bombings in Argentina; it was responsible and on and on. Now that these people are fully as well as Karube Ranfer. Elections this time to do? Are they reformed revolutionaries or yet so far. Peter Robinson: Okay. Segment two what does touched on this. Iran slightly bigger than religion Shi'a Muslim, resources vast deposits Devil We Know "what is critical to understand in its right to Empire. It means to achieve oil supplies". That is two sentences and time. An unshakable belief and a right to Robert Baer: Do you want me to say it politically Peter Robinson: Yeah, please. Robert Baer: They think they are superior; Peter Robinson: So there is an ethnic overlay? Robert Baer: It is huge. Look at the ethnic civilization as more advanced than even the they will go through any number of things We are talking about a people and there is also look at the chaos around them on Sunday. on Province that was done by suicide bomber Afghanistan and they look at Iraq at the suicide at the gate. And they do not intend to let they have to become aggressive to stop the an exaggeration, as Sunni Muslims they will. will do it through irregular warfare, asymmetric Peter Robinson: The Persian proportion of Robert Baer: Fifty-one percent. Peter Robinson: Is 51%, and it is remarkable about 24% Azureus as I recall and everybody ethnic groups that are in single digits. Robert Baer: They are sitting on a volcano. Peter Robinson: So the 51% Persians say to our own borders, why shouldn't we control are saying? Robert Baer: Oh absolutely, Peter Robinson: We know how to control this. Robert Baer: When it comes to the Arabs, they Gulf fought a war? Never in modern history Peter Robinson: Victor you accept all this? Victor Davis Hanson: More or less. I think imploding society, it has its minority problems, System emerging in Iraq, it has this problem it has the Europeans in this Orwellian situation Sarcose pushing us. I never thought in my lecture and American President. Peter Robinson: French President. Victor Davis Hanson: Excuse me, French President, we got this regime in there that wants to the Persians who had been the minority and of Muslim supremacy and that they are the and that their willingness Rav Sanjani said population, but to us we think this is crazy, they are serious but 65 years after the Holocaust, have never found the documentation of that is what Iranians are supposedly said about Peter Robinson: Meaning it would take one Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah, I do not think would not destroy all of Israel, but nevertheless, the State here to sit there and then just all these people are just trying to just thump they want to tell the Arab world they are is because in nuclear poker, lunacy is an convey and we think it is lunacy but we do Peter Robinson: Daniel Pipes "Iran today 1970's. The regime is brutal, and aggressive, Robert Baer: I do not think it is hollow. it is going to collapse like the Soviet Union. Peter Robinson: We have Putin, as far as we people get in there and conduct public opinion character. But there is no doubt he commands of Russia. Does the regime in Iran command population? Victor Davis Hanson: We are not in a pre-revolutionary we are seeing tuck theory Sunni Fundamentalism coming in from Pakistan. There are going to no sign there is going to be revolution or instance. The state is too powerful, too brutal now. Peter Robinson: I have a question here that calls himself UK manchild. Strange name but have supported the protestors, the dissidents revolution? You are suggesting not. Victor Davis Hanson: Can I answer that? Peter Robinson: Yes, please. It sounds as right. This was a long time Victor Davis Hanson: Karube and Musave Peter Robinson: Give us a sentence on each Robert Baer: Were directly involved in blowing They have blood on their hands; these are have made it appear they have transformed but they have not. There is no alternative to power to replace coming in Rav Sanjani Victor Davis Hanson: Well I think the question I think it was more like people who went out for Komanyi, but they were for Bane Sauder So what I am suggesting is maybe it would to do it, but this is part to support the been tarred them with the Bush brush. Fifty-three Obama because he was the promised transcending governments and political leaders. So it seemed of not supporting Musave, but saying to the concerns over Constitutional Government and He ended up resembling was an old style Jim who wins. Whoever wins, it is Tiananmen Square the losers. It did not look good. It sort bothered a lot of people in the world and rights and idealism and make fun of the old not be on the wrong side of history. I agree who are in the streets, who said that they Peter Robinson: So what do we make of the find any polls, but I remember this is the wrong that among the population, the United than in any of the Arab neighbors. Is that Robert Baer: It is, and they are very pro years ago, it is a very westernized people are on the internet. Peter Robinson: So the structure of the problem people, they have just not like the Germans, actually supported Hitler in significant numbers. the problem with the regime which is some a hard core of a hundred thousand and more operative problem is even if you leaned against to bring it down, there is nothing to replace Robert Baer: I cannot identify and replace Nationalism because you can have the average bomb. But if you are Israel do you want any would be no. Peter Robinson: Let me set up segment three the United States? Give me Victor Davis Hanson: We have a big problem Because in Russia's way of thinking it is to get the bomb. And we do not want to confront with a quid pro quo of selling out the Poles by Russia. Russia Peter Robinson: Better back up and explain going to put missile defenses in Poland and said no we are not. Victor Davis Hanson: It is not a question point in the game you have Eastern Europe them. Russia was never going to help you because for both Russia and Iran. If Iran gets the towards Israel, it is not going to be pointed we are going to be the regional king maker nuclear and you want it to be contained we Cold War role that we played in the Middle our client. Anything that causes us problems So this idea that we are going to ever cut Russia wants Iran to be nuclear and will go will do the same thing to Israel and do the Japan. It is an irritant and it is good if Peter Robinson: The Russians are the new French. Victor Davis Hanson: Much worse. The French Robert Baer: Victor is right. If you were drive up the price for oil? Peter Robinson: Right. Robert Baer: If you want to pull the Russian through, drive up the price of oil to $150 do not care what happens in the Gulf. They Peter Robinson: Two quotations. Former Vice will not allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon". are ways to live with a nuclear Iran". Is or should it be flatly unacceptable to the American policy? Whatever else we do, we will Robert Baer: The question is what can we do have stated, they will do, and I believe that they will take out Saudi Arabia's major That is pretty Peter Robinson: They could do that? Robert Baer: We are talking about 10 million world markets. Seventeen million barrels of and we would be paying $400 to $500 for a I am talking about American people prepared Peter Robinson: Victor? Victor Davis Hanson: Most people who say that but I think there are two problems with that. Pakistan. Peter Robinson: Right. Victor Davis Hanson: And they otherwise would not nuclear. And two, there are a billion We do not have a billion person nuclear rival so it is a bad and a worst choice, but there a series of bombs through blockades, really to do that because apparently the United States oil prices increase, we offend Russia. Peter Robinson: There are ways to prevent Victor Davis Hanson: I think there are. Peter Robinson: You think we need to prepare North Korea Victor Davis Hanson: No I do not. Peter Robinson: Where they have four or five Victor Davis Hanson: No, no. I think Peter Robinson: There is no way to prevent Victor Davis Hanson: I think there is a way. Peter Robinson: To prevent them from getting Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah I think you could stop exporting gas that we find gasoline inside. of the Persian Gulf. We are talking about but they are not a physical Act of War, but ostracize it. Peter Robinson: If we blockaded the Gulf, Victor Davis Hanson: I do not know, that would had to make that call. The Cubans, they backed American ships that blocked it, gasoline going certain military things or export of oil, to attack American ships. Peter Robinson: Let me pursue the Abizaid nuclear Iran. This is a pretty good question assured destruction kept nuclear weapons from be as sensitive to nuclear deterrents as was Victor Davis Hanson: You know that is a question really the key in this. You can be Netanyahu Hezbollah and was behind the rocketing of like my argument is they are more rationale live with that argument and count on the Iranians really the answer is in Washington, it is Peter Robinson: So, you just set up segment Ephraim Snay in an October interview, this crippling sanctions are in place by Christmas, we are left alone we will act alone". Is Minister? Is that the Israeli's testing with the Sunday Times in London. Or is that answered the question? Robert Baer: Snay is a friend of mine. Peter Robinson: Is he a crazy person or is Robert Baer: He is not all crazy. Peter Robinson: This is a man who knows what Robert Baer: He knows what he is doing, he he was labor and if he says that Israel will of years ago, they probably will. Victor Davis Hanson: I think that when you Israel according to some polls, this was sort especially after that flawed 2006 estimate But now, I think when an Israeli high official we have to take it serious. So I agree with Peter Robinson: When you say your point about Administration has almost no diplomatic leverage Victor Davis Hanson: Yes. Peter Robinson: That is the point you are Victor Davis Hanson: And the second point, is going to do anything and they were not Peter Robinson: Do you buy both of those? Victor Davis Hanson: I think it is right. there are people in this Administration, I appointment, the failed Charles Freeman nomination, is very Orwellian statement that who was an that National Security matters, that we should Peter Robinson: Brzezinski? Victor Davis Hanson: Yes, it was Brzezinski they fly over America occupied. Peter Robinson: Zbig Brzezinski "in order have to fly over our air space in Iraq. Are to be serious about denying them that right. one wishes for this but it could be a liberty should be willing to shoot down Victor Davis Hanson: I do not know if he is, not speak necessarily for the Obama Administration, large number of people in the Obama Administration that is western and is very successful tolerant in the region. It is just another nation no no different no worse than Syrians and their if Israel takes out the Iranians, then we this preemptive unilateralism, we are no longer worried because I see a Greek tragedy here good points and they might feel that a second is bragging about the second one. Peter Robinson: Ahmadinejad (00:25:01) Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah. They might think do some response and it will be messy, it successful and then people in the United States an ally that is an albatross around our neck. Peter Robinson: And the Administration wants Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah, I think they want that Europe is toward Israel. This is what Peter Robinson: Question - technically, to do to the Iranian nuclear program? Robert Baer: Limited. They have some bunker they could set it back for years, they might years from now. I could understand, what they it is going to buy them time; it will convince psychologically the Iranians will back down. Iranians, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard they will attack in places we cannot even Peter Robinson: The ordinary western, the Robert Baer: Will get sacrificed. Too bad. is to strike back every where they can. So 50% chance will attack, we should expect the Peter Robinson: And the worst is? Give me day after Israel attacks. Begins it attacks. Robert Baer: Dubai gets hit, our supply lines they can get across that border and there we will see a war in Lebanon, we are close as McChrystal called it recently come into Victor Davis Hanson: I think there is also have not seen it in my lifetime is the status pal, we were the bad cop. We were always Peter Robinson: Toward the Arabs? Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah, we were going to were going to sort of say we should have done were always there. Now we are not there. This the people in Europe, they are worried about he keeps saying the centrifuges are spinning Sydney is like Frankfurt, and now you are you do with North Korea and Japan. So a country nuclear weapons like it does Mercedes and They are going to sit there within missile like we want a trade, we want this. Then the were supposed to under, unspoken accords, out of the Cold War was stable. And you did you going to do about this problem? I think to hear more and more from the British, the they cannot really stand on the sidelines of cowboys because they got somebody for the left of them. Peter Robinson: A winner of the Nobel Peace Victor Davis Hanson: Exactly. And he is a and has brought appeal to their own publics who are so, we make fun of the Europeans, players. They understand. Peter Robinson: They know their own interest. Victor Davis Hanson: They know their own interest up by a third rate revolutionary theocracy with Japan and North Korea. So either somebody to have otherwise stable players and we have be a nightmare because we are going to have people, redefine our relationship with the that whether he knew it or not, whether he praise the United Nations Human Rights, he act like utopians with the expectations that and contain somebody, not that far away from Peter Robinson: Segment five, let us just, Intel question - it is my understanding uranium with spinning centrifuges, this is under the bunkers, around Iran, can we assume can to make being a physicist or a nuclear jobs in the world? Robert Baer: They cannot solve this by covert Peter Robinson: They cannot? Robert Baer: They cannot go kidnap scientists They are getting too much help from Russia, is this technology is easily for the Iranians advances in nanotechnology and other fields Peter Robinson: The scientific establishment Robert Baer: Yes it is very good, these are this is not going to do it. There is no easy also have not talked about the arms race in huge divide in the Middle East the Shi'a get one. And what does that lead to? Peter Robinson: And Mubarak has said he wants Robert Baer: I spent too much time in the nuclear bombs. I do not say from a prejudice, is fair Victor Davis Hanson: I think another thing but we do not, the bomb is not the problem, world view. We sleep tonight with Britain be frank with Israel, it is a constitutional well with China. We sleep much better with the type of government and when you have a government, now they can change, but I would I worry about China, I worry about North Korea is not many people there that you, as Bob Peter Robinson: Israel is it. Robert Baer: Come on the borders are still still disputed, they are still in this sectarian and that is what scares me. Peter Robinson: And that goes on all the time. Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah Robert Baer: Yeah and we are going to be collateral Victor Davis Hanson: Even enriched uranium not the greatest weapons grade, maybe they program where Russia is going to use it and is helping them get a purity that they need Peter Robinson: You think it may be going Victor Davis Hanson: Yeah I do, I really do. we will let the Russians monitor it to make be a way of getting not quite a good enough that being, you can make a dirty bomb, you it into a suicide bomber, he can walk into Lebanon, you can go to the United States, going to do a lot of damage but psychologically, is radioactive. Peter Robinson: Let us close out the program ourselves in two situation rooms. First we Minister and your friend the Defense Minister. been said so far and I will sum up as follows: it is an existential threat to the State of we will not permit that to happen. On the time and buy ourselves time for what? The use an attack by us on Iran to put distance Iranian public opinion to the extent that us. Every one of our neighboring regimes whatever denounce us in public. The Europeans would able to extend us any meaningful aid even you advice Benjamin Netanyahu to do? Victor Davis Hanson: If I am an Israeli and Palestinians and Lebanon and the leadership an Israeli, not as an American, I would say The Americans are not going to do it, we are the Peter Robinson: Not necessarily attacking Robert Baer: Just in general. I mean Peter Robinson: For morale? Victor Davis Hanson: We are forgetting that by Hamas which is the Peter Robinson: A client of Iraq. Victor Davis Hanson: Which is a client of they are getting stronger by the day and I We have to do something now or we are going in the succession with some pro-Iranian military Israel so they are looking at it differently. Peter Robinson: Bob Baer advises the Prime Robert Baer: Well he is going to have to Peter Robinson: Do you agree? Robert Baer: I agree with the question that point of no return come. But I think what Peter Robinson: You mean in the development Robert Baer: Yeah. Peter Robinson: We are not there yet? Robert Baer: Not quite. We are going to have Peter Robinson: Six months? Robert Baer: Six months, a year. But what seeing Netanyahu go to weird places like Russia that the United States is not the situation of paternal ally and they are going to have to the Russians, we are going to have to do are going to have to go outreach to the Saudi's talk to the Europeans, the French and Germans but they are going to have to have a framework is going to happen and what are you going I think they are going to find a very ambiguous that, they are going to hear something liked not going to oppose you, but we are going Peter Robinson: Last question. Now we are the White House. Everybody including President this program. Sum it up, the Israeli's will What do you advice President Obama to do about Victor Davis Hanson: About the Israeli strike? Peter Robinson: Well, what should he do about strike? Time, we need to keep Victor Davis Hanson: I would have a graduated Peter Robinson: To Iran? Victor Davis Hanson: Yes. He said in July going to face consequences, than the G20 Summit on October 1st when the direct talks. Then the third time he said it, it does not do team, we are going to tell them we are going we are going to say we are going to have a but they have to have deadlines and they are is going to be passed by the August recess Peter Robinson: The time for talking has passed. Victor Davis Hanson: So they have to establish out what this graduated response is. Sanctions, is up here at about a year and that is to to discuss it and the problem is that we have he has never been in a situation where when a worse choice and whatever choice he makes perhaps. He is not going to be like and whenever Peter Robinson: Approval rating will drop. Victor Davis Hanson: Exactly. And every time it now in Afghanistan, he votes present. That Peter Robinson: And with regard to Israel? Victor Davis Hanson: Well Obama should do appeal to the self interest of people in the you know what we do not like what they are what I just outline earlier, Israel would statement. Peter Robinson: Sure Victor Davis Hanson: This is 65 years after 6 million people were executed while the world to do that again, and we are not doing, nobody Anybody who reads something like Martin Gilbert how the world did not do anything while the people. We have a guy who is saying this did if it did happen and we, this is insane, it Peter Robinson: Bob? What should President you. Robert Baer: I think he should open a back Komanyi and his son and about five generals Jim Baker, pragmatist, sit down and see if Peter Robinson: You send Holbrook over? You Robert Baer: Jim Baker. Peter Robinson: You send Jim Baker. Robert Baer: Jim Baker Victor Davis Hanson: What do you give up though Robert Baer: That would be the question. What 242, would it be something on Lebanon, would Peter Robinson: You said that their interest, their own region. They see themselves surrounded Robert Baer: And we could Peter Robinson: We could cut that deal right? Robert Baer: WE could cut that deal; we could Who is going to suffer first is not us it it is not the embargo they need, they need They have a population of 71 million, 30% can carry in this Cold War, we can strike on, but we really need to go in there and the risk of doing that and failing because sanctions could bring Iran down, but it could like World War III. Peter Robinson: And how do you advice President Robert Baer: We have to reassure the Israeli's. we simply cannot tell them hey look, let us for the best. That is not going to work with of Iran. What is a commander going to do in way, what should I do? We have four minutes stop them. So, we need to get in the position are going to be destroyed. Peter Robinson: Last question. You get about the Israeli's do strike within the end of Robert Baer: Forty-nine percent. Peter Robinson: Victor? Victor Davis Hanson: I would say 50/50. Peter Robinson: A fearless note on which to Hanson, Bob Baer, the author of The Devil Robert Baer: Thank you. Victor Hanson Davis: Thank you Peter Robinson: I am Peter Robinson for Uncommon for joining us. VDH and Baer_Oct 20 2009 Page 1 of 17