There are hundreds of remote to reach on foot or by car. Places like that usually lack proper sometimes even electricity. There aren't any grocery stores either, supply goods and do business there. People have to go to the nearest It can take up to several hours. The only hope for the inhabitants of 'shop on wheels'. They are also called 'mobile shops'. They deliver food and clothes from nearby towns. Last December, I spent a whole day It delivers everything you need to the most which is the Russian region bordering Finland. Before delving into the journey, Soon there will be a new video about world-famous tourist attractions are The first point of my journey was This village was covered in the when its residents complained about After these publications, the local and added the village to the -- The mobile shop delivers everything. -- The mobile shop delivers everything. We have a phone number of And they deliver everything we need. -- Our mobile shop comes here We arrive here at 12:30 pm, that's They know the time in advance so that There are not many residents here, so We bring fresh food and the people love it. Bread is always fresh-baked -- we get it from the We get dairy products on Mondays, and We also constantly update And we never receive complaints There's many things we We can go the pharmacy if -- I've been working for about We used to come here more often -- I didn't find this job, it found me instead. There were two guys working before Right now the road is more or less decent, I used be a trucker so I know And now I work here! Bolshiye Gory is a gloomy village I asked the locals what this -- There used to be a school, a kindergarten We used to have all that and now we -- The building of the club used to where people were shot! And now it's totally abandoned and rusty! How could they leave it just like that? Or put a sign on it saying there used Now it has a leaking roof... It used to be a house of culture. -- About 5 years ago. -- Even more, 6 or 7 years ago. I used to work there! During wartime it was a concentration camp. -- There was a hole right below it, where the This is a truly historic site. It's just the rooftop that To prevent the leaking and decay. If you like the video -- please share it on After Bolshiye Gory village I headed to mobile shop delivers necessities. -- Tell me, please, where did you get the idea to buy a van and start delivering food? -- I was working as an accountant After I lost my job at the factory, at another factory. After one year it closed down too! At the same time my husband So we decided to try this. The first two years we weren't making was wrecked from driving on In the second year we made Then we bought a second, reserve vehicle. Then our neighbour joined us, So now we have 2 vans -- My main job is in the fire department. And here I help when needed. If they need someone to -- So you're saying you're planning to stop? -- Of course. It's unprofitable. I have a second job in order to -- So it's more like volunteering for you? -- Yes, that's what I say lately, that I do charity work! -- How long have you been doing -- I've been doing it since 2008. -- That's a long time! -- Indeed. When our factory closed down -- And who decided on the route? -- I made the route myself. We've been going to this particular -- Over these 13 years, what How do people and their incomes change? -- The people are dying, the -- Is it all happening in front of your eyes? -- It's all happening in front of my eyes, indeed. When I just started it was all fun and lively here. And now it's very sad. Only old people left, sick and fighting for survival. They've been left behind and From Yanishpole we headed People in Yanishpole are connected to whereas further in Elmus the According to the official data of the in 2013 just 59 people lived in Elmus. Near Elmus there are 2 massive swamps under government protection. Traveling inside a mobile shop I found myself Here, nature is clearly doing better than people. Elmus constantly experiences power outages. So the people often find themselves because landlines don't work without electricity. And they're the only way of communication here. In 2016, the local company sort of fixed that the electricity goes out -- We'd really appreciate if the They did it all summer and all autumn, How can this happen? They just can't be bothered! In January last year, we spent No one was bothered! -- All the electric poles were knocked down! -- Every year they fix it and get money the electricity still goes out! -- They've now been repairing it for two -- Yesterday was a good example. At 2 am they turned it off and after At 6 am they turned it off again. So we spent the whole day without light. Then at 22:30 they turned it on and we Because when electricity goes off we have And so we sit at home again without electricity! -- What if you stop? Who -- I don't know! I had a lot of competition, they would come along, disturb my business a bit... But they all probably expected some other And I come here in winter even in freezing -- How often does the shop come to you? -- Once a week! -- And you get food for one week? -- Yes, that's right. -- Also the mail should arrive today. -- Oh, it's quite a special day for you then! -- Yes, a very busy day! -- Everything in one day. -- Was there a shop before? -- Yes, and it was open every day, but -- The shop went bankrupt and was sold. -- When did it close down? -- A long time ago, about 2-3 years ago. -- How often do you go outside the village? -- We don't go anywhere! I've Can't even go to the hospital! -- To go outside is relatively easy, The taxi would cost me $30! -- Just for the ride back? -- Yes! And to get from the nearby city costs $36! That's how it is! I asked the taxi driver What if I must go to the hospital? -- I need to see the doctor and do medical And I can't go, because I just can't afford -- Your pension is $139? -- Yes. I can't afford a taxi. -- Where did you work in the past? -- I used to sell souvenirs in the city. -- Then the prices dropped But I used to earn good money, like $300. They told us we'll have good pensions, getting a small pension. -- Are there any buses? -- Of course not. None. So we're stuck here. The kids can't get out either. Also our children can't visit us. Those who have a car can travel, of course. My granddaughter doesn't -- Another problem is firewood. -- What's the problem? -- No one provides us with -- The last time we ordered it Where can we find the money -- So you need $415 worth -- Yes. And buying it is one thing. Moreover, 12 cubic metres of -- Of course it's not enough! We need to heat our houses also And in winter it gets so cold that we -- And what's your solution? -- We can also use electric heating, but -- Sometimes we collect wood Eventually we make it through somehow. -- That's our life! -- Can an ambulance come -- If they have gasoline - they come. If not - then we have to call But it would take so long It's the same with medicine. The paramedics come once in 2 weeks; They don't bring the pills you need on their So if I ask them for medicine on Friday - to wait 2 weeks for them to come And what should I do for 2 Nothing! I can't get this medication here either. They require prescriptions When the doctor came last time, She said: 'I don't have a pen!' She said: 'I don't have a pen!' Does it mean we need to carry pens with us? She says: 'I'll just tell you the name!' And I told her that by the So in the end I went home saying And then I need to wait for it to arrive. -- Right, because there are no pharmacies here. -- Exactly, we don't have them. We always need to stock everything. And with our pension it's difficult You never know where you'll have to or on electricity, or to save up for firewood. So we have to survive. -- What are you getting for the week? -- 3 loaves of bread; I have Also some meat products and cereals. I get most of the stuff from my son, actually. -- Oh, he brings it to you from the city? -- Yes! -- What did you have here before? -- We had a club, a house There were many people, a lot of jobs. -- And now there are no people, everyone died. -- What was the population before? In total there were about 2000 people! We are now travelling around Karelia and there In summer they're relatively lively -- some people Whereas in winter these Despite that the village is quite big, there And it doesn't have anything: And it doesn't have anything: You can't come here unless you own a car. It seems crazy because you're just where you have restaurants, coffee And then a two-hour drive takes where a mobile shop comes once a week And nothing is going on here! There is not even a proper telephone connection! You pick the phone and you think that but the phone doesn't connect! You can't even make a phone call. That's how people live here! -- Calling an ambulance is a That's it -- you're dead! One time a person called an ambulance -- Was this in your village? -- Yes, indeed. The only remaining public places in which was bought by an unknown A local resident organised a sales inferior to the one offered by the mobile shop. -- The shop went bankrupt and was sold to a military man from our village, for $1000. -- You mean for $10000? -- No, for $1000! He bought the entire thing for $1000 and So he donated it to us so we Half of our village comes to buy stuff And that's how we trade a little here. I only work once a week, on Thursdays. This is how we survive. The mobile shop solves one of the in these hard-to-reach areas. -- How many people live in this village? -- In winter there are about 25-26 people. -- What about summer? -- In summer there are more people We're expecting the mail with As soon as we get it we go home because it's so cold! We're not the only ones There's another one nearby, it's When the mobile shop arrives, Residents gather behind the van, they chat in the -- Villages are on self-survival. Fortunately the roads to this one are cleaned. Yesterday I went to a village that didn't When you're driving through a blizzard and But I drive on. Because I There are not many of them It's nice that I now have a fixed I know where and when This allows me to get to more places. -- Do you know everyone personally? -- Of course, after all these years! They got attached to me, they share that I won't let them down. There were instances when my urgently look for transport. Once I came on a truck, it was ridiculous! Now they know I'll come no matter what. In summer cottagers come, they bring becomes more dynamic. About 30 more people come. -- So in summer your business is going better? -- Yes. -- Will there soon be no old people left in -- Probably... -- When I just started And now, especially when I see people many of them are missing. COVID makes it even worse. I see people disappearing -- Are they dying? -- Yes. So many of my clients passed away. During the COVID times, I mean. Now we're going to a village I have one granny living there. Who's gonna go this distance for one person? I'm just doing it because Although she's the only one It's not like she needs a lot. -- So you'll spend more on gas than you earn? -- Absolutely. Expenses exceed the revenue. But oh well... I still go. All these years we didn't get any help. Although we contacted the mayor's We asked them all for help. All they did was to build these tents. It used to be terrible when it was raining or And now they can at least sort This is our achievement. -- So the shed was made -- Yes, we forced them to install this shed! -- So that you can come and -- Yes, because before nothing This is all I could get from The last destination of our route It is also located on the shore of the a unique spring lake. The living conditions in Yustozero But in some aspects they're even worse. For example, in Yustozero there's it works from 2 pm until midnight. Without electricity people constantly lose There are no jobs, just like in -- What is this bus stop over here? -- This is their bus stop and this is my shed. -- This is a bus stop that... -- Was once operational. Back in the days when Probably! -- And this was built for you, right? -- Yes, this is what I got after all this years. -- Who made the decision to install it? -- Kondopoga's city council. -- Did you send them a request or something? -- We sent requests, we visited them, knocked on their doors. That's because they need to Eventually they included this shed -- In this village with one resident -- Only in summer. Now I just -- Do you create the assortment yourself, -- I already know what they want and expect. I know each person and what they -- So it must feel like one big family? -- Yes, it's exactly like that! -- Here you go, you can take this one for free. -- How are you doing? -- Not bad! -- How's life here? -- It's fine, they provide us with bread. -- Bread, I see. -- Do you live here all year long? -- Yes. -- And what do you do here? -- I keep livestock! -- What kind of livestock do you have? -- Sheep and a goat. -- Oh wow! -- Also chickens! And cats. -- How many cats? -- 3 cats. -- Sounds like it doesn't get boring here! -- No time to get bored! -- During the war it used to -- The house you live in now? -- Yes! -- I come from another region. -- Aunt Nina, would you Here, take some! Do you have tea at home? -- Yes, I'll go make some now. -- Drink it with these cupcakes! -- Where should I put the stuff? -- Don't worry about it. Please sit down. It's a simple house I have. -- Oh, you have a nice stove! -- Oh, you have a nice stove! A very cozy house! -- We used a have a club and a library nearby. But the club burned down a while ago, -- What was the population here before? -- I'm not sure how many people, but there were -- 16 cows! And now? -- Now it's just one goat that I have. When all the men died it became -- Let's see, what do we have here? -- It's a very delicious piece of cake! -- Of course! Take a fork. -- Do you have salt? -- You have salt in the mushrooms. -- Oh, no, thanks, I don't really like mushrooms! -- You should try the dried mushrooms with oil! -- Salt! Great, thanks! I brought some sweets for you! -- Thank you! My daughter lives in the city -- There's no such thing as too many sweets! -- What's your age by the way? -- I turned 73 last November. -- Got it, 73. -- We had many long-livers in our village! There's another woman here who's 91 years old. -- Wow! -- Yes, and she stays active! -- Do you watch television? -- Yes, at 2 pm I turn it on. Also in the mornings. -- So the electricity turns on at 2 pm? -- Yes, that's right. -- Until when? -- Until midnight. -- So for the whole day. -- Yes, also in the morning, from 9 to 11. -- What do you watch on the television? -- Everything, I like to watch Putin. In Yustozero, electricity supply Residents told me that once, when they couldn't call an ambulance for -- We didn't have connection The phone wasn't working, we -- A social worker comes here once -- And if you get sick - we have a cemetery nearby! -- Does it mean that the -- It will! -- How fast? -- My father got sick last year and he got -- At first, our local ambulance And after that he started going crazy! The second ambulance -- Can I see your goat by the way? -- Of course! Let's go have a look. I hope the rooster doesn't attack us! -- Wow, amazing! -- Calm down, easy! Don't attack! -- He's majestic! Unfortunately He was in another barn. -- Is this the angry rooster? -- Yes! -- Petya, stay calm! -- Are you defending yourself with a shovel? -- Otherwise he can attack my leg! Go away! -- What can be done to revive the village? Or is it too late to do something? Why? It's developing anyway! -- But it's only the cottagers -- Well, it's the children of the Their parents died and they took over the houses. Now they refurbish them. -- They refurbish but don't live in them, right? -- They live here during summertime. -- But only in summer! -- Some people come in winter -- So in Christmas there's lots of fun here, yes? -- Yes, kids come over for holidays! I'll show you the mask I was My grandchildren take acting I was wearing this mask for the New Year! -- How old is this mask? -- Not sure, it's very old! I bought it one day for a special occasion. We are in Karelia, a couple of and dozens of villages are scattered Every village shares a similar story; hundreds of residents, there was production, raised their children, and However, today in Karelia, as in all Most of the houses are abandoned. Along the road there are stores like this one. They're closed because Stores are closing along with that used to be present here, In winter, only a few old In some there are 1 or 2 people, Although 20 can be considered quite a lot. The only life-sustaining process in these postal service or social workers, who come This is the only connection most of It's the only process that keeps life going. Here we have a store with a Soviet sign. Obviously the store is closed. There are also phone booths. Actually the village has practically no so few people living here. Just like it's unprofitable to run a shop, That's why you can only have connection up a cellular signal from remote Also there are these phone booths that have In theory, we should be Let's give it a try and see if it Although judging by the lack of footprints Let's see if there's a signal... No! What a shame! Nope, not even a dial tone! End of story! Elena, the moble shop owner, spoke warmly about a farmer He delivers fresh milk and I visited him and saw the -- Do you have cows? -- Indeed. -- Can I take a look? I wanna see the cows! You are a legendary man, everyone speaks so warmly about you! All the grandmas are proud of you! -- How many cows do you have? -- In total, with the calves, I have 40. -- 40 cows?! -- The calves don't really count! -- How long have you -- For about 10 years. -- Did you come here from somewhere? -- No, I'm local. -- So you decided to raise -- Milk and cows. -- Oh, wow, impressive. -- Please meet the cows! -- Do you only sell in villages or also in the city? -- It's impossible to sell in -- Do you have an established customer base? -- Pretty much. The production volumes are not so big anyway. -- Look, she managed to get out! She's a curious one! -- This is the youngest one, he's -- Covid? Very original! -- He's just a month old. -- What will happen to these people -- I have no idea, I can't even imagine it. -- Of course it will be bad for them, Maybe they'll ask their children Maybe they'll help each other. I don't know, but evidently this is not normal. -- I was wondering if people's diets In terms of what they can -- Well, they're eating less. -- Can you notice it judging from -- Yes, some items that used to be As I said, the situation today is terrible. Either they don't have enough You could see for yourself how -- True, they mostly buy bread. -- We do! We have pork, chicken, everything. -- I saw chicken feet. -- Chicken feet are for the dogs. -- That's animal feed, -- It's actually a very interesting job you have! -- Nothing interesting, to be honest. -- I understand that it's -- I just really want peace. -- What are they going to do without you? -- Not sure about that. -- Did you see how they're running to you? -- Yeah, it would be problematic for them. Also, when they have no money, -- Do they always give it back? -- Yes, when they receive their We also bring them non-food Say an old lady needs to clean the roof. I try to fulfill all their whims, -- Maybe you could help us? We live in remote populated areas; We are not young girls, we can't We're people of age. Why forget about us? welfare of this country. This is the story of how one lady did more People like Elena save lonely Russian I hope civilisation will reach these villages If you liked this video, please give it a like and share it on Reddit.