The breaking news. We've got new details about the gun used by the suspected shooter. Police revealing just moments ago that they are looking into the possibility, as you loo that the assassin used right the Let's posit that gun in his hand as a veterinarian gun. That's a larger firearm. It's used on farms and ranches. Police are also revealing they're talking to Brian Thompson's family, as well as people he worked with and local law enforcement in Min They're saying so far they don't have any indications that the killing had anything to do with his personal life. Back with me now, the former Bos police commissioner, Ed Davis, a NYPD detective David Sarney. Okay. Obviously, you know, this is at this point moving very quickly here on this Friday Ed, can I just start with you? This gun and we were freeze framing it th You know, we've heard about it that there were a couple of jams That might have had to do with the silencer so far. But now this new reporting, a larger sort of rifle used to put down animals on farms. What what sort what would that actually reveal about this killer that he would have had such a gu higher and certainly have been a number of as to why that that gun had to be cock so many And frankly, this is a valid explanation for If this is a specialized weapon that's used on a farm, it wouldn't it wouldn't need to automatic, be able to fire after each round. It would be something that you c do a single shot with. And it appears as though that's what's happening here. Now, that would lead one to beli that there may be some nexus to rural areas of the country. And this is either someone who's been aggrieved by the insurance company or maybe even an activist that is making a statement about business. Right. So, you know, David, this is obviously new inf but can I just ask you your inst on how hard it would be to obtai something like this? And I guess to say the obvious, I don't want to say a normal per because we're not talking about a normal person, but it isn't obviously the first, second or even third or even 15th kind you'd think of in terms of a gun It is very specific, right? Definitely very specific. And accessibility is always deals with firearms. And that's why when this video c everybody was already making per and the benefit of this is with when you start researching this and start doing the work and find out more nuances about this firearm, we thought it was jammed. As a former commissioner said, this is an unusual type of firearm to bring, but it comes back to accessibili Someone had access to this. Did the shooter have it to obtain access from someone el to steal the gun from a location And there is some slight a proficiency in utilizing the f So is he the one that owned that Because that gun is you know, usually when it comes to firearm the gun usually falls from place to place, person to person. Usually when it comes to legal f this may be something that he po or he obtained possession of it from someone else. John, obviously a lot of new developments today. The idea, first of all, of this gun is int the idea that it could be a veterinary or gun, that veteri veterinarians use. Yeah. What Chief Kenny is talking abou after this assassination, you kn the NYPD went to its firearms experts and said, what is this gun with this enormous silencer? And they examined it closely. It's a blurry shot. But they also looked at the way he was manipulating the weapon. And they said, you know, that looks like the B Now, as you see, it, has this large extended that that is screwed on to a threaded rather short barre But the way the gun works is you fire it with that trigger and then it doesn't automaticall the next round. You have to pull back on the rear of that slide and then let it go to eject one round and feed the next in. If we look at that videotape taken during the actual shooting you see him fire the gun. He's pulling back, firing the gu So it's not necessarily that it jammed per se. Right. So that's the question. And here's the investigative con which is he's manipulating that gun that appears to be this, you know, kind of assassin's wea But they also found shell casings on the ground, but they also found live rounds. So the question is, was he familiar enough with the working of the weapon? Did he it does look like in the second I mean, there's if we rerack it, he he fires. He does. He fires. I mean, he looks like there and he fires and then he seems to like tap it two or three times. Right So either he's undergoing a malf because he doesn't know how that weapon wor or I mean, it's a blurry shot. It may be another weapon, even a ghost gun with a large suppressor or silen What do you mean the end? Like you mentioned, either there was a malfunction where he was doing the drill tap rack ready to cycle another round in there or he got overzealous and he cycled two rounds there i of just pulling it back and laying one round cycle into the chamber. But there's a there's a weird cultural thing h I mean, you wouldn't be committing a professional mur with a veterinarian. A veterinary is gun. But this gun is based on the design of something called the well rod And even going back to the Briti and the allied forces in World War Two in the 1940s, the Well, rod was the assassin's It when you fire it with that su you get a sound like a book hitting a table in a libr And the idea of why a vet would is that it doesn't disturb, I guess, other animals. Exactly. It's practically silent. It's a it's a it's a significant It's a nine millimeter round. And it's it's it's meant for clo killing. It's meant for vets to kill an a by shooting it in the head or so You know, that's going to be fat But it would work the exact same way on humans very effectiv and extraordinarily quietly. Juliet, if if he's going I mean, if he commits this murder, gets on the bike, goes through Central Park, goes up to, you know, into the eighties on the West Side, hops in a cab, goes to the bus s I assume those are all things he if he came to this city, there's not a lot of people who aren't from the city would even know about that bus station up by the George Washington Brid And I don't know if that's one of the things in the ten days of reconnaissanc that while he was in the city that he learned about. But there can't have been at that time in the morning that many busses going to places from that bus terminal by the George Washington Bridge. I don't know how how busy that that terminal is, but it's got to be less busy tha Port Authority. Right. And it is And but what we do know from this activity is he planned his exit and probably his exit from the c almost as carefully as he planned the assassination. So this is someone who's thinking of the full circle. This is not a mass shooting. It's not a suicide. It's it is it is someone who wanted to get and thought through it. And all those actions that you j not once did he stop, not want to see surveys, not once do we see his face. So I have been writing and sayin you know, whatever we think this is, this is someone you know, the police are doing one thing and they are bumping up against his anticipate his his the anticipation he had that they would do exactl And he is he is playing that place sort of like a cat and mouse. Now, the surveillance has not been as as we wish. The even the face that we see is not apparently not showing a He he kind of knows how to cover And so in some ways, this surveillance state which exists in this city is a d It's got lots of cameras. In some ways, he was surveying it and knew how to get around it. How much is him leaving the city if in fact, that's what he did? We know he got into the bus stat We don't know. No video of him leaving. How much does that complicate the law enforcement manhunt? Well, now now it's completely ex tenfold here in where he could b And he's had how many days now advance on law enforcement. Dare to work himself out of the New York City area. Obviously, it was the easier to try to corral him within the because there are all these chok Right. With bridges and tunnels and the way out there to bus, train, plane. And, you know, I figured he was going to come i and go out by bus because there's less scrutiny th with not having to provide ID, n screening of bags there. So that thing with a weapon, rig If he's bringing the weapon in h then he can do that. Obviously a lot easier on bus and potentially on a train, but not on a plane, obviously. You know, we've been talking about how why wasn't the bag found in the last couple of days, Cent You know, if he was only in that for 15 minutes, we know generally where he enter and where he exited. There's a limited route. You couldn't you can travel woul I know they're being very carefu and someone is reporting there. You use an excavator and they got the surrounding mat Well, in case he spit or there's any DNA on the ground But would somebody have immediat looked inside the bag, I mean, with a Tyvek suit and, you know, just to see is the gun Their instructions were, if you freeze the location, do not touc wait for the detectives, wait for the crime scene unit and let them package this up, because this is one of these thi where even touching it or going through it with rubber gloves, you can smudge prints, move DNA contaminated with your own mater When they go to trial, they want to be able to testify. This was all done with perfect procedure in terms trying to preserve that evidence and then extract that evidence. You know, we know it's interesting that he wanted to escape, but he also wanted to leave behind bullets that have these words written on them That's exactly. And he is he is the master of of of sort of wanting to be seen, but not wanting to be found. And this gets to, you know, what we've all been talking about thi sort of the creation of a cult around him, that him becoming a sort of folk hero for people who don't like their insurance companies. I think it's disgusting. But nonetheless, the fact that he seems to come from nowhere and go nowhere. The NYPD is now a day three almost day for, you know, and nowhere closer is part of what he's able to man So I think he is using technolog These hints of the bullet, the the coy smile while flirting, but not enough to know who he is All of that is someone who I think is sophisticated, at least in media and creating this aura around hi