OMORI's origins go all the way back to an artist with the pseudo name Omocat, created and shared it on her blog. Omori isn't just the a phenomenon coined in 1998 by Japanese used to describe people that have completely home in total isolation. The term refers individuals themselves. According to multiple million people aged between 15 and 64 that Unsurprisingly, Omori, the boy in the drawing, is illustrations, turning it into an ongoing activities. While a lot of the material seemed Omocat never confirmed she experienced but she did mention in her blog that the born from a need to cope with problems Drawing has been Omocat's passion for as long her parents would play her a which started her love for anime. Since then, mother wanted to encourage Omocat's enthusiasm class when she was six years old. Here, she learning the basics of drawing. While her love of years later thanks to shows like Sailor Moon, she felt she couldn't openly talk about Therefore, when she would draw comics of her forward in an effort to hide her anime influence. background, her creative side was thriving. So in school. "It became something attached to my the years, she went through a variety of style but she admitted she never really succeeded. classes and even 3D classes to learn maya, simply or a tablet and Photoshop, remained her the time came to go to college, there "I ended up going to art college because artist. There was a huge stigma around drawing art." It wasn't so much the teachers, but mostly that if no one else was willing to draw anime at Needless to say, she leaned into drawing rekindled her two passions. By this point, she had by sharing her artwork. Omocat mentioned therefore used the internet as an outlet to the opportunity for her to be anonymous as an her Omocat brand. She said in an interview she get to where she is today. The character Omori more she explored his identity online by adding leave the space he was confined in. Of course, the a bigger adventure for a hikikomori character felt compelled for him to be part of something In January 2013, Omocat announced she had been would be an estimated 12 chapters long. What's the works. While she was drafting the chapters story seemed too linear. Instead, she wanted the pages and help her characters make choices. story as if they were the character instead her ideas were coming to her in the form of the right medium for OMORI to be a part of, it be a video game. The only things holding her back because of other projects and because she felt Coincidentally, during this time, she noticed hesitation, decided to buy it for her and made up and called her friends Pedro Silva and and invited them to become a part of the project. making a video game together and suddenly, to task before now seemed possible. Pedro, best also known as Space Boyfriend at the time, work on the soundtrack, while Omocat started Before we move on, I'd like to talk about this online platform that aims to help people excel lectures with hands-on, interactive problem company back in 2012 and in May 2013, she further visualizations and intuitive explanations during raise funding from a number of investors, as Today, Brilliant has over 10 million people such as foundational math, foundational logic, and intimidated by math, physics and engineering, helped me build confidence by engaging with fun solving. All within a user-friendly environment All courses are crafted by award-winning teachers, Duke and Google, just to name a few. To get or click on the link in the description. The first annual premium subscription. Brilliant, There was never any doubt in Omocat's mind HUGE fan of Earthbound. Nostalgia and personal decided to make OMORI an RPG. I'm not a game before. When I was drawing the OMORI graphic which is exactly how I plan to do it. is because I didn't envision it Aside from Earthbound, the team was also heavily Dragon Quest, Animal Crossing, Kingdom Hearts, Inspiration for OMORI didn't just come from games, developers loved as kids, for instance anime shows Cry" and several manga like "20th Century Boys" helped shape the look and feel of Omori. When it from Vocaloid producers such as Kagerou Project, can tell from this list, most of the game's and pop culture, something Omocat, Pedro and Jami As mentioned before, Omocat imagined OMORI wanted to infuse the project with a she wanted to sort of recreate the rawness a lot of the developers on Earthbound had never very advanced at the time. Now, Omocat didn't but she thought her inexperience could hopefully in the case of Earthbound. To make the project games at the time, she did plan on inserting In terms of the story, Omocat decided to tackle namely depression, anxiety, fear of loss, fear of A difficult challenge as these subjects require but Omocat felt she could portray them in a throughout the game reflect personal experiences, In July 2013, she used her blog to announce her novel into a game. The next couple of months were assets, composing music and lastly, preparing planned for the coming winter. It eventually got preparation that was needed to get everything the trailer alone took a ton of work according took all the photos and edited the whole video That's when she started to realize that much stress on her body and mind considering planned to release it. Creating all the of the programming was something else entirely. which is one of the more user-friendly development complete the project, especially because Omocat right around this time, she met an called Archeia. Archeia has had experience and is also an active contributor to the create games. She agreed to join the project Omocat was really relieved about Archeia's to her to develop the game using RPG Maker. Not she also wanted to promote the platform, because storytelling and game development. According don't consider it a valid authoring platform, the engine was just as valid as any other game no programming experience whatsoever to just anyway. Furthermore, she wanted to show people "Having gone through art school, I've always products instead of art; but just because it in fact, I would argue the exact opposite. do and beyond. It mixes visuals, writing, music it all in one package. Games are so successful based on them. As creating games becomes easier game-making is an art medium. I am creating an art Omocat kept the team as small as possible. but she believed a smaller, more focused intact. Early on in development, she came game that would play songs made by various she stumbled on the song My Time by bo en and OMORI. After contacting him, the song became the which was released on April 21st, 2014 along Within a single day, the team had reached their every single stretch goal was funded as well, Vita port. In the end, 5,910 backers pledged Initially, OMORI was intended to be a small game and other perks in May 2015. As time went quickly came to the realization that they needed her involvement with the RPG Maker community, knew hesitate contacting them. Omocat mostly spent rewriting the story, writing dialogue, planning assets, as well as creating drafts for the time that she started to seclude herself more and didn't want anything influencing her original By January 2015, it was confirmed the game would now scheduled to be released in late 2015-mid about major changes under the hood. For example, run much smoother. Additionally, a custom map emotion system was also being reworked. Later very busy porting the game to the newest version While this was a very time consuming process, it especially for porting the game to MacOS. The next public progress update wasn't until to express their frustration about the lack of the rest of the team of taking people's money product backers had paid for. These accusations in numbers from here on out. The fact that the Kickstarter and social media only led to more communication was due to the fact that she under wraps. Furthermore, the newest version of as well as sound lag and kept the While the creators of the engine were busy the OMORI team had no choice but to The new release date was now set to acknowledged how difficult it was to gauge because she keeps coming up with new ideas to how hard everyone on the team was working and A new programmer named Yami had joined the new and improved turn-based battle system. those in Earthbound, but eventually the developers make better use of their emotion system by adding Additionally, Omocat herself had types of media such as watercolor, photographs and many types of digital and feel cohesive. The decision was also made causing her to scrap a lot of art she had been changed from pixel art to hand-drawn animations. and instead of having multiple endings with very open-ended and focused on smaller individual The months leading up to fall 2016 were spent programming, level design, balancing stats and and a high number of quests were completed at the team informed Kickstarter backers that they older plugins that were now incompatible with about that game's release was revealed early showed off a lot of the games' improvements. OMORI was making progress, Omocat had to "When the Kickstarter was launched, I video game and I now know pressing such a short and placed an incomprehensible amount of pressure back." She proceeded the Kickstarter update issues they were still experiencing with RPG how dedicated she and the whole team was to "We hope that everyone understands that we are far extremely busy working on the game while keeping have mentioned before, some of us have even been and stress. I am aware that another release date but we can't just "pump out a game", especially extremely dedicated and has been working on years. We want to give you something that so we will continue working every day And that's exactly what the team did. In more developers joined the team in 2017. It gave the role of a director and writer, as other team Although this was good news in terms of speeding developers were running out of money. It had been live and the team had grown quite a bit since the game. However, Omocat addressed these concerns clarified that yes, the Kickstarter money had been from selling her clothing and other merchandise to The first half of 2017 was mainly spent fixing assets and plugins were successfully converted in charge of the art and gameplay systems took elements. For instance, multiple level designs were added and the battle system received a new more dynamic. The latter half of 2017 saw the devs where people were welcome to play a demo of which proved essential to create not only a better In April 2018, the upgraded demo was released fixed, cutscenes were polished and enemy full game, the developers mainly focused on as well as updating their technical performance and smoothing out future development 6000 backers naturally produced even more feedback of changes that were revealed in 2019, such as improving the UI layout to be more stylistically several dungeons and puzzles, adding more sprites Even though the team was making very good promises regarding a firm launch date just yet and of 2019 release. When December rolled around, the it wasn't going to be released just yet as they Months went by with no sign of a release date. and abandoned by the team was now at an all-time the Kickstarter money without the intention was now unavoidable on social media. Despite much as possible and releasing a working a meme for making fun of games Fans luckily didn't have to wait too long for assured development was still on track and they extra animations, extra content and other final revealed Omori's launch day: the 25th of December, because on that day, after 6 six long years of finally released. For many backers, the wait had reviews that praised Omori's depiction of anxiety the story for sometimes being too dark. All in were compared to those of games like Earthbound, funny and serious moments that make for a gaming Additionally, the art direction was perhaps the describing it as "nothing short of phenomenal". mixed as some found it boring once you find a good applauded the way it makes your party feel like big success and delivered on its promises back Obviously, it was a big relief for anyone that but it was an even bigger relief for Omocat. She after the game's release that goes as followed: few years, I've worked on the game from the most weekends. I could not let myself rest until I powered through and dealt with my feelings some parts of the experience were incredibly whether I was programming, writing, or "I've had a lot to say, but I haven't shared very horrible about grossly underestimating the initial frequently enough. Because of that, when people felt like I deserved it even though none of it was fulfill all Kickstarter backer rewards. I'm It's important to remember that Omocat had development started back in 2014, she was still a illustrator. This, combined with the fact she shows how impressive it is that she was able at all. Omocat has mentioned it's unlikely OMORI spin-offs, but many other ideas outside the world own future is concerned, it's uncertain she'll but her creative spirit is still I know without a doubt that I still want things... That part of me hasn't changed. It's all Before I end the video, I'd like to announce to exclusive content like Q&amp;A videos and how I make my videos. If you support me at the community Discord. My goal with the Patreon is the plunge and start doing YouTube full time. You can go to patreon.com/thatguyglen or out my page. Thank you for watching this