Vsauce! Kevin here, and this briefcase contains the humanity human. That's it... this is it? Paper, dollar, pencil, sugar cube, playing Let me explain. FOLD A PIECE OF PAPER. Again... and again... a sheet of paper is the number of layers after folding we make We start with 1, then every fold raises that My folding is not going well! The world record for paper folding is only If we could fold it 30 times, it'd be thick 42 gets us to the moon. At 103 folds, the thickness of this paper basically the diameter of our entire observable A piece of paper is the size of the universe. And you're inside this sugar cube. In fact, we all are, or COULD be. Atoms are tiny, and their fundamental particles A proton is like... a femtometer, one quadrillionth The simple way to think of our body's makeup with a fair amount of empty space between Quantum physics shows us that's not actually appears to be 99.99999% empty space. That space matters. But if we compressed the atoms of the human in-between them, all nearly-8 billion of us This is us. 7.8 billion of us inside here, we can't RIGHT! NO! WRONG! About 108 billion humans have been born throughout If you're 1 in a million like my mom told 108,000 humans exactly like you. THAT'S NOT GOOD. How can anybody possibly stand out? I KNOW. Just do something no human has ever done before... Shuffle a deck of cards. Okay people have done that but not the same! Michael mentioned this in his Math Magic video a deck. The number of possible combinations is 52 yeah, all the way down to one. That's ehhhhhhh that number different orders Every time you shuffle and deal, you've guaranteed to never have been done before again. So ignore your 108,000 clones, opportunities And there's no limit to what you can do, this video, you're a supercomputer. This Rubik's Cube has 6 sides of a 3 by The question is: How many permutations exist? That's a good question, I think of it often. The answer is this: 43 quintillion, 252 quadrillion, thousand. That's it. And every single possible state of the cube That's called "God's number," and to determine. Du Yusheng solved the classic 3x3x3 Rubik's 3.47 seconds. Maybe it takes you longer -- but you are mentally quintillion problems and solving it in a surprisingly You solve problems in the world and if you're more peanut butter and you notice HEY there THIS helps connect us, but you've got to This doesn't actually have intrinsic value, paper. But it does represent a way for everyone to talent, whatever -- for what someone else The Aztecs used cocoa beans and the ancient I've got a Playstation, I like making videos, It's a lot easier for me to use something and my video production skills, and then use a pygmy goat farmer who needs a PS1 and a We have a system that converts what we've a way to get what they want with what they've And it's not just about money, currencies too. You can be you... with others. That's why we're capable of making incredible Such as a #2 pencil. It's like Leonard Read's "I, Pencil" that results in making something as basic Someone farmed the Incense cedar. Someone built the tractors for that farm. Someone made the wheels for the tractor. Someone mined the graphite and clay for the No one planned this. We just all... did our little piece, and others to make a thing everyone uses, but no individual We can't even comprehend what's happening WHERE'S MY UNIVERSE PAPER? We do all this because we know what 0 is. It's not even just nothing. It's the absence of value, value that exists If infinity is so impossibly large that we impossibly-deep void we process mostly by We do understand the power of something that's things, but that on its own is... sort of Zero makes the pencils happen, and it's It's never getting what we want, it's inability to be unique, it's inaction, it's unfathomably large paper universe and fighting nothing. You know what it is, but you're everything The world is big, the universe is complex. And you can visualize, conceptualize, and of life by studying, and researching, and with some of the junk lying around your bedroom. OR STORED IN YOUR EXTREMELY COOL BRIEFCASE. And as always, thanks for watching.