Today is the most important day in Patreon's 10 year history as a company. (electronics whirring) I started the company 10 years ago 'cause I was getting millions and literally less than 200 I thought that was insane So Patreon started with a super just help creators make money through recurring payments, membership. And 10 years later, billions of dollars through memberships. Halle-fricken-lujah, it's about time. (electronics whirring) (electronics whirring continues) But there's something even more exciting happening right now. Independent creativity is Tens of millions of creators around their work, making with no media company, no record label, and no publisher behind them like Justine and Natasha from the podcast &quot;Two Black Girls, One Rose&quot; and now they're earning six And even more exciting, they and an editor from Ar like Steven Shane They built a production company of 20 people to make movie quality videos. Or like this cooking show where fans are taking courses on Kajabi and having amazing experiences learning how to cook Cantonese food. Instagram has subscriptions. YouTube's launched like and Twitter or X or whatever the fuck you want to call it now has a new rev share program with creators. We'll see if they follow but the point is at least they're trying. There's this whole ecosystem developing around helping creators build which just wasn't there 10 years ago. (gentle techno music) Okay, that said, I can't like everything is solved and Yes, a lot has gotten there are huge problems for creative people over the First, creator communities and the mainstream narrative out there doesn't quite capture how deep The entire internet has shifted over the last couple years It used to be that a creator and then fans would follow that creator to see their future work. But the problem is TikTok A follow on TikTok basically means nothing because it's about algorithmic curation, not about following, and all the platforms are on recommendations and curation. So you might have a million but your followers feeds are clogged up by recommendations pushing so you only reach a tiny when you publish a post. This trend is breaking and distancing communities from and worse, it doesn't have to be this way. It's bad for fans, it's bad for creators, and it's bad for art on the internet. (gentle techno music) The second problem is that because of this algorithmic curation, creators feel pressure to instead of from their hearts. When the channel to reach by a set of rules that literally we have to tune and manufacture to fit the algorithms. If one week Instagram cares we gotta post reels. If TikTok prioritizes And that dynamic has a serious impact on our ability as creators We end up making content (gentle techno music) Okay, the third problem. Creators still lack The platforms don't give Creators have no idea who our fans are and we don't have the Fans feel unrecognized at best, and the platforms are just spinning up and sunsetting new features all the time, just giving creators super shaky ground to build on top of. In Patreon's next chapter, these are the problems that (upbeat techno music) We're gonna build a to share their work on the internet and bring life and fire to (upbeat techno music) I want creators to feel like instead of for algorithms. I want fan communities to feel tight and joyful and alive. For 10 years, Patreon's but if we're gonna solve we gotta expand beyond membership and build more stuff for And so we're thinking about ourselves as more than a membership company now. We're like a creator company. We're a fandom company. We're here to bring the spark and the fire back to what it means to be And this isn't just some future vision. Last year, we launched video, so now fans can watch And this year, we which allows fans to or videos or anything else We also created the ability So now fans who aren't yet ready to pay a monthly subscription and join your community. And today, Patreon is We're fully rolling out for community and There's a brand new creator page. We're making shops our fully available, and we're of our mobile app. Actually, redesign does not even begin to describe how much better this app is. It's basically a brand new mobile app. There are a bunch of creators that are already using these products, creators like Archvillain through their shop that allow their fans to print physical characters It's so badass. And &quot;The Girls Bathroom,&quot; a podcasting duo who has an on the new mobile app. People are like posting pictures and writing advice to each other. It's just such an awesome community. And because Patreon's no longer we've created a new brand that's more reflective that we're moving into. If you wanna learn more about there's a link in the And again, if we zoom this is just the beginning. Over the next decade, to change how art lives on the internet. We wanna build things like and cool live experiences energize the communities (gentle techno music) I've said this before There has never been a better Creation tools are cheap and everywhere. It used to cost $100,000 to make a record and now you can make an than a major label record Getting your own TV or radio reserved for the lucky And now anyone in the world (gentle techno music) I know sometimes, at least for me, the internet can feel shitty as a creator. I feel myself bending my work I'm embarrassed about that. But it doesn't have to be this way. (gentle techno music) The internet can be something as creators, our own our own worlds can be because that's what creativity is. It's deviation from expectation. It's not figuring out the rules It's building our own As a creator, I forget this all the time, but the truth is we do The world we build for ourselves is only limited by our It is truly up to us because We don't choose a path ahead. We cut one from the dirt. We make something unreal real. For the creators and fans watching, keep doing what you do. Without you, the web is a lifeless shell. You are light years ahead of the internet, but it will catch up. Please go check out Gregcicle on Patreon and Theo Garno. They're responsible for in this video and they were So please go check them out Okay, bye everybody.