- [Narrator] What you are looking at is considered the most that ever existed. On an area of just 6.5 acres, dozens of individual buildings have merged into one solid organism that houses, shops, restaurants, churches, private homes, and virtually everything While the outside facing a vast majority are located within this block, full of dark pathways. It is a giant, urban maze that attracted all kinds of people with reasons to hide. (slow heavy music) This is Kowloon Walled City. To understand just how people lived here, let's compare this city with other places. Take the East Village in New York City, located in Lower Manhattan. There is a small park in the center, but other than that, it is a pretty dense neighborhood with historic row houses, and more recent large apartment buildings. Based on the 2010 US census, just over 44,000 people live here. That results in a population than for all of New York City, and New York is the most in the United States. By all means, this is a dense place, but let's compare it In 1987, a survey estimated The density is simply astounding, and in reality, the number might have been even bigger, with some estimates going Perhaps the strangest thing however, is just how abruptly it ends. While everything is crammed into this tight block of buildings, behind the sharp walls of the city there are relatively spaced out buildings, and even a park with sports fields. So why was everything crammed The answer is that Kowloon Walled City wasn't part of the rest of Hong Kong, but had its own legal status. The Walled City began as nothing more than a small Chinese military outpost, stationing about 10 guards. It really started to take when the outpost was expanded by the construction of a larger fort. At the same time, the nearby harbor of Canton Chinese tea was a hot who purchased it in staggering volumes, allowing this region to prosper. However, the trade relationship While the British bought the Chinese had little To improve this trade balance, the British began to from India to China. This scheme proved effective, with the widespread escalating rapidly. This led to an addiction epidemic which wreaked havoc on Recognizing this crisis, the Imperial government took decisive action to but this move led to a heated conflict, which would later be known between Great Britain Britain won the war, and subsequently occupied The Walled City was not affected, as it was located on the island nearby, and as a result of this loss, the Chinese Empire decided to reinforce the fort in Kowloon by building large walls around it, giving the area its lasting At the heart of this fortress, they built a yamen, which is the main office from which this outpost is administered. The tensions between China ultimately leading to the As a result, the Kowloon peninsula, too, fell into British hands, and the final boundary resulting in a 1990 year lease of the new territories to Britain. This is, in short, the story of how Hong Kong as it is commonly known. But what is often overlooked, is that the convention included the Kowloon Walled City, which is located inside a Chinese enclave in the As time moved on, both the Chinese and the showed a lack of interest leaving it to its own fate. The desolate barracks soon became makeshift homes And recognizing the need a Protestant church seized the opportunity to establish a senior home But the peaceful existence of this enclave was shattered in 1937 when war erupted between Japan and China. The full scale invasion, emerged as the central throughout World War II, and by 1942, Japan had taken control of as well as holding one of them being Hong Kong, which they utilized as a The Japanese expanded the and to do so, they needed Therefore, they tore down the which was located right near the airport. The end of the Second World War saw Hong Kong revert to British control. Simultaneously, the newly founded People's Republic of China, in 1949, reasserted it's right over Practically, however, neither the Chinese, nor the British, took control of this area. And with a massive wave of refugees in the wake of the Chinese Civil War, the need for cheap living And so, in the decades that followed, a maze of buildings grew Single houses became became 14 story skyscrapers. (upbeat oriental music) The sunlit streets until they were, eventually, completely blocked from sunlight. Within the confines of the Walled City, the laws of Hong Kong were not enforced. Any construction within the city proceeded without adhering with one singular exception. Due to the city's close a strict height limit of Kowloon Walled City was located right along Landings at Kai Tak were one of a kind, with pilots navigating through Hong Kong's mountainous terrain, flying remarkably close to the Walled City on final approach. The highest priced apartments were those facing the outside, followed by those near These units offered the precious commodity of sunlight and fresh air. You could add a caged cleverly expanding your living space, but most of the units were located inside in extremely unhealthy conditions. This is a plan for a typical With no windows, people here were completely There also was no waste which led to catastrophic air quality. Frequently, rubbish was simply disposed on one of the city's rooftops, or thrown into one of the The air is said to have and polluted by the many factories that operated inside the city. As for clean water, a mere six official water which means residents often had to carry the In terms of electricity, few actually paid for the service. Instead, most residents opted to illegally tap into external cables, routing them through the of narrow passageways. These harsh living conditions attracted, not just those looking the city's ambiguous legal status also attracted those who saw potential for unique within its shattery confines. The Walled City became a Many of those had obtained their but found their licenses unrecognized in British governed Hong Kong. This rendered them unable elsewhere in the city. The absence of regulatory oversight also allowed various workshops, such as those specialing to flourish within the city. And kitchens were selling that were outlawed in such as dog meat. Generally, food production inside the city, despite the completely It is even said that many of the delicacies ended up on the plates across Hong Kong later in the night. While these kinds of businesses within the Walled City skirted the edge of legality, others plunged straight into the realms of serious criminal activity. Just because this city is free did not mean it was a space without order. Power structures still exist with the triads notorious criminal gangs controlling the city. While businesses did not pay taxes, many of them were forced to these groups. And the triads themselves engaged in illegal businesses such as soliciting and in the later years, venturing The Hong Kong authorities found themselves in a difficult position, not wanting to let the get out of hand. A permanent police would be an affront to China, which still claims the Therefore, in the mid 1970s, the authorities decided to with police officers storming the city for short periods of time, arresting criminals, confiscating drugs, and then, leaving again. In addition, various private aid organizations operating a kindergarten, as well as a Christian that offers help with addiction. The historic yamen, in became a popular social spot, hosting public events Even though the situation in it was, again, geopolitical reasons that ultimately ushered in Its legal status was a of the surrounding new territories, and it is precisely that countdown that was coming to an end. In 1984, after years of negotiations, Great Britain and China agreed on a handover of all This handover was scheduled but the breakthrough in negotiations also cleared up the dispute Despite massive resistance the two governments jointly decided that the social situation, the risk of fire breaking out, as well as the fear of any would justify the complete of the city. With the start of the demolition in 1993, Kowloon Walled City came to an end. But as the city fades into memory, two diametrically opposed The dystopian image of the city inspired a large number in film and art, often showcasing Kowloon Walled City as a futuristic hotbed As such, the city inspired However, what gets lost here is that this city was also a vibrant, As chaotic as the city may there was actually a lot of order. And the notion of complete You could send a letter to and despite the apparent chaos, it would get delivered just fine. People came here with nothing. They then raised children, established businesses, and then had to self-organize that the lack of of To many, Kowloon Walled City is a symbol of Hong Kong, showing that hardworking people were able to create community even despite harsh conditions. Today, on the side of the Walled City there is a park where remains of the historical city can be found in several places, such as the historic yamen as well as a small model remembering the urban It's easy to vilify, and it's just as easy to Ultimately, the answer might The story of Kowloon Walled City is one I've been meaning because it's a story that explores the intersections of architecture, Looking at changes of urban I think, can be incredibly insightful to understand the world we live in. One of my favorite videos I did that explores exactly these intersections, is my video about the construction of the original Twin Towers, in which I explain how these buildings completely changed how This video is part of Under Exposure, which also features videos about the raid on Bin as well as a video about which was the worst aviation These are videos that are not made for instead, this series is a series where I fully, just how I want to. And the reason all this is possible is because me, and a bunch of creators, have gotten together to build our very own streaming site, and it's called Nebula. The idea is simple. Since Nebula is not an ad but a subscription model, we get to create higher Some of my favorite shows They're entertaining, but since we mostly are there's also just so much And I am immensely proud of what my original series has become. So go to nebula.tv/neo, and make sure you use that link so that you get 40% off on an annual plan. All my exclusive videos are up there, so thanks for the support, and thanks so much for (upbeat stringed music)