WeChat payment is 39 yuan. Hello friends , I am Brother Hu San. Today we came to the morning market on Hongzhuan South Road in Xi'an, Shaanxi Province . Let's visit this market that is very popular among locals in Xi'an . The location of this morning market is between Hongzhuan South Road and The intersection of Jiashanfang opens on time at 6 o'clock every morning and lasts until 9 o'clock. When the first ray of sunshine in the morning penetrates the sycamore treetops on the streets of the ancient city of Xi'an, people rushing to the morning market are already crowded. Following the flow of people, we are attracted by this again. Attracted by the fragrant street food, Cantonese rice rolls are not often seen in northern markets. This restaurant is also very famous on Hongzhuan South Road. The method is to steam the rice flour slurry in a traditional drawer-type steamer. During the production process, the rice slurry is added. You can add corn, ham, sausage, bacon, eggs and other auxiliary ingredients for seasoning, and then add different flavors of sauces and brine. The taste is soft, glutinous, salty and delicious. It is most suitable for breakfast. Which kind of food are you cooking? Are you a host? Just post food videos. I love eating sausages and lean meat. WeChat payment number is 9 yuan. 73. Whose 73 is it? Dahu oil tea is always present in any morning market in Xi'an. Oil tea and twists are the traditional way of eating almond oil tea and crispy twists. This seemingly strange way of eating together sublimates the taste of the food. The unique salty aroma always attracts passers-by. The price of a bowl is 3.5 yuan, which is also very popular among people who like sauerkraut. Those who eat leeks don't want to twist it, right? How much is it? 3.5. Alipay has received 4 yuan. Do you think it's good? It used to sell for 2.5 yuan. Today it sells for 1.5 yuan. Come and try it. Try it. Don't take pictures. It relieves coughs, reduces phlegm and moisturizes the lungs. Thank you for what you got. I'll buy one too. The price of crisp pears from Pucheng, Shaanxi has dropped again from last week to 8.3 yuan . The skin is thin and juicy . The price of 1.5 yuan is really cheap. The mobile stall pancake fruit has appeared again. Pancakes are a convenient and fast snack that can be seen in all markets in China. You can see , but the taste is different in different places. This one is from Henan. The batter used is multi-grain noodles and the fried fruits are processed by my brother himself. The technique is really skillful. It takes less than 2 minutes to make such pancakes. Each one sells for 5. Yuan is still worth the money. Hello brother, hello. You do n't charge stall fees. No , no stall fees now. If you did before, I would definitely ask for it. I'll give it to you. I asked for it before. How long have you been selling these pancakes for 40 years ? Where are you from? Xinyang , Henan. Do you know Xinyang, Henan ? I have never been there, but I have heard of it. I have been selling pancakes for 40 years. The perseverance and perseverance of this elder brother are touching. During the chat, I learned that the elder brother came from Xinyang, Henan at the age of 19. I have been selling pancakes in Xi'an for 40 years. He supports his family with a small pancake stall. The elder brother also bluntly told me that he has three children and all the food and clothing expenses for the family are earned by selling pancakes. That's it. He sells pancakes day after day, year after year, and he has managed to put his three children through college , and the children have gone to China's 985 and 211 key universities. Now all three of them have graduated from college and are working. I work in the big cities of Beijing and Shanghai . Speaking of these family memories, my elder brother is sincerely proud. As a listener, I am also sincerely happy for my elder brother. A pancake stall has made a family successful and changed the fate of an ordinary family. These are all hard-working elder brothers. Do you want the spicy food you get from your hard work every day ? Big Brother's story is indeed inspiring and touching. And in this bustling market, there are so many hard-working Chinese people who work tirelessly every day to carefully manage their own business. Every time I turn on the camera in this market, my heart is full of respect for every stall owner. From them, I see unlimited power. I sincerely wish the pancake brother good health and a good business every day. Mao from Jingyang The pink tomatoes are 3 yuan a pound and the quality is really good. How much does this cake cost? 4 yuan a piece, 3 yuan, 10 yuan, and 10 yuan. There are also onions , sesame seeds, onions and sesame seeds . The Xinjiang grilled naan bread is a unique ethnic snack here. The morning market is made on-site and has a unique flavor. This daily food for Uighur friends can now be tasted casually in the Guanzhong region, which is far away from Xinjiang. China is a big country , but the delicacies have been integrated with each other. This freshly baked naan bread costs 10 yuan and 3 pounds of kiwi fruit is only available from At this morning market, you can find some round and freshly cooked noodles . Let's go ahead. Let's go ahead. Brother, how much is this? 6 yuan per kilogram. This brown noodle is called buckwheat noodles. It is a kind unique to Shaanxi. Noodles are made from multigrain buckwheat flour. These two kinds of glutinous rice noodles are of different colors. The dark one is made from pure buckwheat and the beige one is made from a mixture of buckwheat noodles and wheat flour. Shaanxi people love to eat glutinous rice noodles . It takes time to make glutinous rice noodles. For office workers, you can buy some ready-made buckwheat noodle glutinous rice noodles from this market and go home. You only need to make the soup yourself and you can eat it. It is convenient and fast. Get the bag and get the bag. Hurry. It's almost late and I can't buy it. It's too late and I can't buy lotus seeds for 1.2 yuan. WeChat payment is 1.2 yuan for 1.2 yuan. There are people shouting and bargaining. The prices of various vegetables are very affordable. Most of them are between 1.5 yuan and 2.5 yuan. The action of the man who sells tofu puffs is really handsome. Each spoonful of the tofu puffs is so skillful. Mix the snow-white tofu puffs with the spicy black bean oil and then add a spoonful of the secret brine. A delicious breakfast is presented in front of you. This tofu puff is in this morning. The market is very famous. Many people are old customers who come to buy breakfast. Most of them bring their own lunch boxes. Customers and stall owners are very familiar with each other . Many of them are neighbors and they have a tacit understanding with each other. It is really good. This potato shop looks good and is fresh from that year. An 8-pound bag of potatoes sells for 10 yuan. You can choose any one. WeChat payment is 2.5 yuan. WeChat payment is 2.5 yuan. What are you taking ? I am taking a photo of a gourmet brother fried dough stick. How much is it? 2.5 yuan. Freshly fried fried dough sticks without sails. You can buy one with big crispy skin for 2.5 yuan. Standing in front of this frying pan, a special aroma of oil and flour hits your face, making you very appetizing. This kind of pot helmet steamed bun is very popular in Shaanxi, Gansu and Qinghai. Most of them are made by Hui friends. The flavor is mainly sweet bean and also has the sweetness of rose. It is crispy on the outside and tender on the inside. It can be stored for a long time. This kind of pot helmet is also called bundled pot steamed rice cake in Gansu and Qinghai. Is there any other one? How much does it cost? 4 yuan per serving. And 5 yuan for two. Xi'an's special snack steamer cake has appeared many times in our program. People in Xi'an are used to calling it crystal cake. This dessert made of glutinous rice, red beans and red dates can be found in major markets. It is also very popular. You can buy a soft, glutinous and sweet Fuji for 4 yuan. Ah, how much does a pound of Fuji cost? 5 yuan . 5 yuan. Luochuan Red Fuji. I have long heard that 5 yuan a pound is delicious and not expensive. Next door Another sweet pear from Xianyang Bin County. They are quite big. They cost 2 yuan a pound . They are delicious and not expensive. Alipay has received 8 yuan. How much does this bowl cost? 8 yuan 8 yuan. Next, it will be your two yuan a pound. Red grapes from Yulin cost 2 yuan per kilo. Bananas from Hainan cost 3 yuan per kilo. Hainan bananas often appear in our programs. Some friends commented on how Hainan bananas from other places are cheaper than those from Hainan. In fact, they are free. The market is sometimes so incredible , but all in all, ordinary people are all about affordable prices. Handsome guy, can I take a picture of your cake filling? I'll excuse you. Alipay is credited with 69 yuan. WeChat payment is 6.7 yuan. WeChat viewing is 4.7 yuan. Welcome to visit WeChat payment next time. 4.5 yuan . Welcome next time. How much does a cake cost? 6 yuan per piece . The morning market in Xi'an usually lasts from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. The current time is 8:20 , which means there will be another 40 minutes before the morning market ends and you have to go back. Due to the traffic, this period is also the busiest time of the morning market, and the transactions of vegetables and fruits are the most frequent. You came and I came again. Pucheng's alkaline noodle steamed buns are also sold by the bag . This big bag only costs about 5 yuan. There are 20 to 30 steamed bun bars. It 's quite affordable . How much does a vegetable box cost? 4 yuan a piece. Such vegetable boxes are also very common in Xi'an's breakfast. They are freshly baked for 4 yuan each . They are really thin-skinned and have big fillings. There are generally four or five flavors , including chive vermicelli, pork, green onions , and fennel. They are also very popular. Bring me one with chives and I will get it for you. There are also fennel ones, right ? There are some. How much does it cost to burn one? 8 I ran into a pancake shop at the intersection for 8 yuan . The sauce they use is very attractive. The basic pancakes are 4 yuan each , but the toppings here are very special. In addition to the usual add-ons of eggs and ham , you can also add spicy strips and Flammulina enoki mushrooms are indeed very creative. Walnuts are good. Buy some. Let me see how much a pound of walnuts is. How much is a pound of walnuts ? Twelve or three dollars. Why are you taking pictures of this ? It's delicious food. Hahaha, it can't be sold at a high price. How much is this 12 yuan jujube? The little jujube is 8 yuan 8 yuan a pound 8 yuan two pounds 15 Oh, the price is not much lower than last year. It cannot be sold. It cannot be sold at all. How does it compare with last year? It is much worse than last year. The business is very bad. We only sold tens of dollars in the morning. It's not good at all. It 's not easy to do business. It's too difficult to do. How is the sales in the morning? There are not many people buying. This morning market is a Monday business. No, Monday, no, Monday. This excellent tomato is called Provence. It is known as the King of Fruit Tomatoes. It tastes quite sweet, sandy, not pasta, not empty , sweet but not sticky . It is the best among tomato vegetables. Tomatoes like this are among the best. This morning market only sells for 3 yuan per pound. 14.8 yuan. What kind of corn is it? Is it sticky corn? It's sticky and sweet. How much is it? How much does sticky corn cost? It's 10 yuan. Four last tangerines are on sale for 10 yuan. Yuan costs 4 kilograms. Don't worry, these are Yunnan tangerines. I sell them at a loss of 8 cents per kilogram. Grapefruit and Yunnan tangerines are both 10 yuan for 3 kilograms. How do you sell ginger ? Ginger costs 15 yuan per kilogram. Garlic costs 12 yuan. Jiang Ze sells cabbage and cauliflower for 15 yuan per pound. The tender green spinach and cabbage are 2.5 yuan each for 1 yuan. The black beans and tofu in Yulin are 3.5 yuan per pound. Fruit corn and sticky corn are 10 yuan for three sticks. Nine yuan a bag. Nine yuan a bag. How much does this box of jackfruit cost? It weighs 27 yuan per catty. It costs 27 yuan per catty. WeChat payment is 39 yuan. There are many varieties of salads and pickles. Basically , the flavors are 8-10 yuan per catty. There are also many that can be mixed with these local eggs. How to sell them ? Is this local egg 6.5 yuan or the previous one? In the past, fresh beef was 38 yuan per pound. The price of fresh meat across the country has been at a low level this year. The price of pork has been around 13 yuan. Most of the beef and mutton are under 40 yuan. How much does the beef cost? 38 ribs 36 yuan Brother, how do you sell these yams? 12 yuan per catty. Henan Tiezhu yam, lotus white, 1 yuan, peppers 1 yuan, beef offal and haggis from Inner Mongolia 21.8 yuan per catty. The price is the cheapest I have encountered recently, and the variety is also very comprehensive. When buying, you can choose beef offal and haggis according to your preference . The cooking methods vary across the country. Henan, Hebei, and Shandong mainly eat haggis soup , while in northwest regions such as Shaanxi, Gansu, and Qinghai, dry mixed haggis is the main way to eat it. The beef offal and haggis from Inner Mongolia are cooked semi-finished products and taken home according to your preference. It is also very convenient to re-process the flavors. It is 8:40 in the morning and the morning market is coming to an end , but the flow of people in the market has not decreased. Some people have complained that the morning market is too short , but after all, the morning market is for the convenience of everyone to buy goods. Many of the temporary markets are on the main traffic roads . If they take too long, they will also affect the traffic. The snacks of five kernels are 10 yuan, and 6 various sweet cookies, bean cakes, and sugar cakes are about 1 yuan each. My 26 and my 26 are also sold out. Listen to my brother's words. You asked me to sell it for 25 yuan, 46.5 yuan, 2 yuan and 80 cents , and give me a piece of tofu skin. No problem . Wait a minute . The total is 3 yuan and 6. As I walked , I saw a lot of green peppers, long peppers and screw peppers. 2 yuan per pound of pepper, 2.5 yuan per pound. These fresh vegetables and affordable prices can always arouse people's desire to buy. Then eat the celery and wait for the vegetables to come. You can also put cotton pajamas and cotton vests out. When I went to the morning market , it cost 30-50 yuan a piece. It looked pretty good. How come this pair of shoes was sold for 50 yuan? The one had no number. The price of all kinds of leather shoes, sports shoes, and broken codes was about 50 yuan. The styles of thermos mugs and thermos kettles are also It's quite unique. It's 20 to 30 yuan a piece and 5 yuan a bag. It's all packed . Thank you for your patronage. It's a small camera. Thank you for your patronage. Welcome to visit next time. It's 5 yuan a pound.