The sky, we now know, is full of stars AND hydrogen into helium in their cores, generating to expand them, but their gravity balances Planets, even gas giants like Jupiter, are inside them resists being squeezed, so their Jupiter is only about 1% the mass needed to a pretty big gap between a big planet and happen if we dumped more mass onto Jupiter. in its core would get high enough to initiate But what if we stopped just short of that? than a planet, but not quite massive enough What sort of thing would we have then? What indeed. By the late 1950s, astronomers were starting The mathematical equations that governed the helium were being worked out, and applied In the 1960s the idea that you could have if it had less than about 0.075 times the Jupiter, it simply lacked the oomph needed to squeeze What would such an object look like? Well, it might form like a star, collapsing billion years ago, but instead of turning there, cooling. It might start off pretty it, but it couldn't sustain that heat. Like away. After a few billion years it would be cold, As people started working out what such an with a name for them. These things were black, was already being used for another type of objects, but that wasn't terribly catchy. Really low mass stars are red, and these new light in the infrared, and almost nothing between red and black. Jill Tarter, then a who later made a name for herself looking that later -- dubbed them "brown dwarfs." be brown. But the name stuck. Work proceeded in figuring out what brown made despite there not being any actual examples But the hunt was on. Now as I talked about by their temperature. The hottest are O stars, through A, F, G, K, and with the coolest stars But then, in 1988 astronomers found a star the M class stars. It was the first of a new, letter L. Why L? Because there wasn't any other Many more such L stars were found, but still were massive enough to initiate fusion in Worse yet, when brown dwarfs are first born L stars for a while, looking just like them, But then a way out was found. A low-mass brown in it, whereas normal stars wouldn't. Lithium Table after hydrogen and helium. It can be stars would quickly use up their supply of dwarfs lighter than about 65 times the mass Very careful observations of an object would That would provide a test to distinguish brown The lithium test isn't perfect, but it does began using it to look for actual, real brown And so they found one. In 1995, a group of astronomers was observing visible to the naked eye. They were trying cluster to get a complete sample of its membership. to the cluster was pretty well known, so a They found an oddball object, which they named of all, lithium was found in its spectrum. it had about 50 times the mass of Jupiter, or 0.05 Huzzah! The very first true brown dwarf had At just about the same time, astronomers found had an extremely faint companion. Spectra also had lithium, and so was clearly a brown in its atmosphere. Methane is a delicate molecule, of Teide 1's atmosphere. This new object, It was looking like we needed yet another letter to On a personal note, when I worked on Hubble camera's first targets after it was installed on the spectrum we took of it, and it was visible part of the spectrum, and rocketed spectra before, but nothing like this. Remember, before! I became so intrigued by it I wound for several years after. Well, it didn't take long before more brown In 2009, NASA launched the Wide-field Infrared designed to scan the entire sky looking at dwarfs, and now at least 2000 are known, with that they form yet another classification: So now we have O B A F G K M L T and Y. You're So if brown dwarfs aren't brown, what color Some are so cool they don't emit visible be right over one and you wouldn't see it. But some are still warm, and so give off some visible Funny thing. They might be magenta. You'd think they'd be really red, because complicated than that. Remember, they have specific colors of light. In some brown dwarfs, water--well, steam at those temperatures--that Some of these molecules block more red light making them look magenta. WISE takes pictures in the infrared, which map each infrared color to one our eyes can infrared detector is displayed as blue, the one red. Brown dwarfs put out a lot of light so weirdly, they appear green in WISE pictures. images, even when thousands of other stars The physical nature of brown dwarfs is just they have a very unusual characteristic: As Usually, if you dump mass onto an object it 'em together and you get one more massive, But brown dwarfs are different. At their cores is a bit different than what you'd expect. is that when you add more mass to them they becomes important right around the mass of as massive as our biggest planet won't actually So what's the difference between a small not much. Nature isn't as picky as we are classes of objects. Some people say a planet growing larger as it accretes stuff, while of gas and dust. But then you could have two the same, yet one would be a planet and one That strikes me as... inconvenient. Astronomers are still debating this. And it For example, as I said before, brown dwarfs It turns out that ones more massive than about an atom that's very similar to hydrogen, nucleus. But neither of these fuses actual stars. That's still a little arbitrary, so again I think it's best not to think of them as of both. For example, the way their atmospheres In some, iron is vaporized, a gas. In others, out of the atmosphere... which means it literally One more thing. The nearest star to the Sun orbits the binary star Alpha Centauri. It's announced the discovery of a binary pair of only 6.5 light years away, and became the You gotta wonder: Could there be an even fainter, none in our solar system, even out in the by one of several different sky surveys. But Centauri REALLY the closest star, or will but no more unlikely than the existence of we'll have to rewrite astronomy textbooks. Today you learned that brown dwarfs are objects and small stars. They were only recently discovered, but fuse deuterium, and even lithium, but not hydrogen, Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association their YouTube channel and see even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.