Hey Econ students, this is Jacob Clifford. Welcome to the Microeconomics In these summary videos, I explain all the next quiz, unit exam, or final exam, basically But remember this is a summary video so help take a look at my other videos on YouTube. This video is going to cover Before we jump into it make sure you have video. So right now pause this video Let's start with a quick overview. Here are the five big-picture ideas you #1: The law of demand shows a price and quantity demanded a positive relationship between #2. Elasticity measures the responsiveness of #3. Consumer surplus, producer surplus, and deadweight loss are used to analyze the #4. A demand and supply graph equilibrium quantity and can be used to #5. The effects of government tariffs, and price controls can be That's an overview, so now You learn this in your class. It all Demand is the different quantities the consumers And there's the law of demand. It shows an inverse relationship between price If the price goes up, the quantity If the price goes down people Now there are three reasons for, The first is the substitution effect. units when the price goes up because And when the price falls, they buy more because the product is now relatively The income effect is the idea when the price goes up because Their money doesn't go as far And when the price falls, people And the third reason for the law demand is &quot;This is worth at least 50 utils&quot; As more units are consumed the price that because people get less and less additional This is a demand schedule for a quantities that consumers are willing And it shows the law of demand. consumers are willing able to purchase more. A market demand schedule is made up of preferences of specific people. And, This law is shown on a graph with If the price falls, more people If the price goes up, less people So a change in the price of the product something else other than the price changes For example, if there's suddenly That would cause the demand so at every single price people But if it was found this product gets people sick, then the whole demand curve At every single price people will Now there are five shifters, or determinants, of consumers, price of related goods (substitutes And there are a few details here. remember the difference between Substitutes are goods and services that and complements are goods and For income, remember the difference For normal goods, when income increases then when incomes go up the demand falls. An example is Top Ramen. When there's a recession and incomes are falling people The best way to make sure you understand go. What happens to the demand curve Nothing The demand doesn't shift. Remember a along the curve. Just remember &quot;don't forget, price doesn't Okay, new question what happens to the demand This would cause the demand for milk At every price, consumers are willing of a substitute has fallen. They're Now you might be thinking to yourself, didn't shift the curve and all in the price of Yes, a change in the price of the product is talking about a change in the price To clarify, a change in the price of the and that's called a change in quantity demanded. If one of those five shifters It seems like the same thing, but trust me I guarantee your teacher is All right! That's it for demand. Let's make sure you're getting it. Pause this video and Now all of this also applies to the supply curve. Supply is the different quantities that producers And, there's also a Law of Supply showing a direct relationship between price When the price goes up, producers want to producers are going to produce and sell less. This is because when the price make more profit so they want to sell more. When the price goes down, eh I'm So that means there's an upward-sloping The price of resources, or inputs, the number of like taxes, subsidies, and regulation, Again let's practice. Show what milk if the price of milking machines increases. Milking machines are a key resource for producing milk so the supply of milk is At every price, milk producers are going That's it for supply. To make sure getting Before we put supply and demand For most students, this is the hardest topic in this unit because it does require you The general idea is pretty how sensitive quantity is to a change in price. In other words, we know that an increase in demanded and the quantity supplied Will the quantity change a lot or just There are four types of elasticity and price elasticity of demand, cross-price elasticity of demand, The price elasticity of demand measures how price. The equation is the percent change in Your teacher or professor very rarely so that means you have to be able to The good news is that I have a trick for you. Whenever you see questions that require you to calculate percent change, It's the new number number, minus the old So if the price decreased from $15 to $12 the Now if that 20% decrease in the price resulted in a 60% increase in the quantity the Remember if the absolute value of the price then the demand is relatively elastic, meaning If that coefficient is less than inelastic meaning quantity is less A coefficient of one means it's unit elastic so the percent change in quantity and the And, if it's zero the demand consumers are going to buy the same Notice the more inelastic the curve but elasticity is not the same as slope. In other words, a demand curve a different elasticity depending on where you are. At higher prices and lower quantities, at lower prices and higher quantities And different products have It all comes down to the availability of the proportion of income spent on the Now there's one more thing you have to It turns out that this equation is not of the demand curve. The other way It involves looking at the total revenue For example, if the price is $20 and the revenue is $200. If the price falls to $15 20 then the total revenue is $300. This means the You could calculate percent change and do The total revenue test says that demand revenue goes up, or if the price price And the demand is inelastic if the or if the price goes up and But remember the total revenue test only Now I threw a lot at you so your study guide fill out Topic 2.3. Good luck! If you understood price elasticity understand price elasticity of supply. It is to a change in price and the equation If the coefficient is greater than one then one then supply is relatively inelastic, and And things like paintings by Van Gogh quantity supplied is not going to So different products have different down to how difficult it For example, products with few sellers or to produce have more inelastic supply. Quantity But if the product is relatively easy to produce and a small change in price can lead to I think you get it, go ahead and fill There are two more types of elasticity and Cross-price elasticity of demand measures product is to a change in the If the coefficient is positive then the two goods are substitutes. If it's negative Income elasticity to demand measures how sensitive coefficient is positive then that's a normal Now be careful here! When we did elasticity looked at the absolute value but when you're sign really matters. Make sure you The point is, read these questions carefully decreased and indicate if the percent It's those small details that might trip you up on your exam. And it's why it created a There's an elasticity practice sheet Packet. It's designed to help you practice It's free. You can download it and do those video. But right now, it's time to pause Now it's time to put supply here is the equilibrium price and quantity. This is the only price where the quantity we assume that's where we're going When the price is too high and a surplus and eventually prices will extra units they're going to lower And when the price is below equilibrium and go up because consumers will bid up those prices. The point is, always assume we're weird is going on in the market, which Economists look at the efficiency of a market by looking at the benefits it Consumer surplus is the difference the demand curve, and the equilibrium price. Producer surplus is the difference between the price and how much sellers Now remember not only do you have to find to calculate them. It's relatively easy. It's just Now when you put consumer surplus and producer And when this is maximized the market getting as much benefit as they can But what happens when we produce less and deadweight loss, which is lost consumer and And remember it can be on either side. If we loss right here. And if we produce too much We're going to come back to this idea later it's important for you just to be able to spot and Which is why you should stop pause the video Topic 2.7 starts by going back and Just remember when the price is above equilibrium the quantity supplied is greater than And when the price is below equilibrium the quantity demanded is greater than the A good way to remember that is the price Probably the most important skill in this unit &quot;You want to talk about a supply and When it comes to these Step one is draw supply and demand and label Step two is analyze the change is What's the shifter? Draw and label that new And step three is the most important one, quantity and say what happened. Did price And remember that's what we're doing here. We're trying to predict what's going to happen What's going to happen to price and quantity? &quot;Oh, that's a rough business to be in right Let's practice! Draw a market for ice price of cream and input significantly decreases. You start with a graph showing the ice cream and the price of an input fell The supply is going to shift to and label that and have an arrow. Now quantity and at the bottom say price Now I know it seems like there's there's only four things that demand can decrease, supply can It's easy... except when there's double shifts. Sometimes you might see a question demand and supply shifted. When you see when two curves shift at the same time, either In other words, you won't be able to Let's practice. Assume you have going to fall and the supply is going to fall To get the answer just draw the graph. A decrease in demand will cause the price to decrease in supply will cause the price Ao no matter what happens the quantity price might go up it might go down so Or your teacher might use the term &quot;ambiguous&quot;. Either way you don't know. It might But remember, this is only for single shifts you know exactly what's quantity going to go up or down. For double At this point you definitely need know take a look at topic 2.7 Now here in topic 2.8 we're talking about how It all starts with the idea of price controls, when the government artificially keeps This is the idea of a price ceiling, or a cap it's going to help consumers because it keeps not going to produce as much stuff. So But the real question is can you spot consumer Here they are. Consumer surplus, We're not producing the socially optimal The opposite of this is a price floor which keeps you can't lower the price below a certain level. here's consumer surplus and here's producer But like I said before, being able have to be able to calculate them. Which But watch out here! Teachers and ceiling or a price floor that's in the wrong spot. For example, your next quiz or says what happens when there's a The answer is nothing. It's not like if the government told gas stations gallon. No one's trying to do that so Just remember that price ceilings are only binding if they're below equilibrium and price floors Now let's take all these concepts you A per unit tax on producers will the left because producers now have higher costs. That vertical distance is the amount that consumers pay a higher price, but Remember the sellers have to pay that tax because that vertical distance is Now we multiply that tax times total tax revenue that goes to the government. Let me explain that again, Before the tax, all the money that consumer spent the total expenditures was equal to After the tax, the total amount that consumer this total amount because the rest went Now you should also be able to spot producer surplus, and deadweight loss. Again I'm going to have you do the For now let's see if you can spot them. Try and deadweight loss after the tax. After the tax, consumer surplus is here. original quantity is socially optimal, There's one more thing you It's the idea of tax Notice that the tax increased the price the amount the sellers receive. In other words, both The easiest way to spot it tax revenue dig into consumer For example if the demand is more inelastic than the supply then consumers pay And if the supply is more inelastic than demand The big takeaway here is the burden of depends on the relative elasticity Now I know I covered that fast. If you need take a look at my videos on YouTube. But if you you totally understand it. Okay there's one more thing we have to You know from comparative advantage from trade and now we can show This is a domestic market for sugar quantity if we produce sugar in our own country. Question, what happens to the and deadweight loss if instead we can Pause the video and see if you can figure it out. At this price, domestic producers will produce this amount, but consumers want more The total amount purchased is here, so This is producer surplus and We actually have the opposite more total surplus because consumers But notice who doesn't like international trade, domestic producers because And this is why domestic producers international trade at least have some tariffs. If there was a tariff of $10 then Consumer surplus would get smaller. and this is the tariff revenue And that tariff would cause deadweight loss If you're still confused take a look at the but right now let's see what you know Okay you're done with your study guide, I suggest you go back to the ultimate questions for this unit and fill out the questions and look at the answer key That's it for microeconomics unit like leave a comment and subscribe. &quot;Don't forget price doesn't shift the curve.&quot;