When you will learn - &quot;how to handle my thought, how to handle my emotion.&quot; We will give you tools how to figure this machine out... whatever the issue we will do our best, Questioner: In life there are many phases where and when everybody is against us, and there's no one to, So at that moment, how should we handle it, or how should we deal with it? Sadhguru: See, this is an unfortunate condition that a in their personal experience, life is like, "me versus the universe". Being in competition with the universe is a stupid thing to do. Me versus the universe is a bad competition to get into. Would you also agree with me? So this is why yoga. Yoga does not mean twisting and turning your body. The word yoga means union. Right now, it's me versus the universe - this is just your psychological condition. This is not the reality. Even when you feel utterly lonely, are you still breathing? So you're transacting with the world, isn't it? Yes? But the atmosphere is okay with you. You have transaction with the world, isn't it? Your existence is constantly in engagement with the universe, If you create a psychological condition that you are against or you're in competition with the universe or the cosmos, obviously will feel crushed for small things. Little things will crush you. When I say little things - maybe you failed your examination, maybe you got thrown out of the university, maybe you got fired from a job, maybe somebody ditched you, maybe something else like this happened. These are all small things between life and death. Because you came here with nothing, isn't it? When you die, there is no container service for you. You die with nothing. In spite of that, most people have turned their homes into warehouses. Most people are carrying such a huge baggage on their head, as if they're carrying the whole universe on their head. This is their own psychological condition. Your thought and emotion is what you're talking about. Right? When are you going to figure out how to handle your thought and emotion? Not hers, not hers, not his, yours. When are you going to learn how to handle my thought and my emotion? At the end of your life? The only problem, really, with life is just this - most human beings have taken themselves too seriously. They do not understand. You've seen on the computer screen these pop-ups? You are a pop-up on this planet. (Laughter) You pop-up for two seconds and pop-out. (Applause) No, no, you must see, countless number of people like you and me have walked this planet, they were also big people. Where are they? All top soil? Top soil or no? Unless somebody, your friends decided to bury you real deep, fearing that you may raise from the dead. You know, there have been such instances. Or maybe you're planning to go to heaven. Hello? Anybody who talks about a place other than this place as a better place than this - this is a crime against humanity. My fundamental work is to destroy all heavens, so that people will learn to live well here. All these idiots who made a hell out of themselves, they want to go to heaven. They made a mess out of this place, and then they want to go to heaven. I'm asking you, do you have any proof? Do you have any proof that you are not already in heaven and messing it up? Do you have any proof? You're already in heaven, making a mess out of it. Yes? Simply because you are not even learning how to handle your basic faculties of thought and emotion. Isn't it? Your only justification is "Everybody is like this, only" - that's how it is in a madhouse. (Laughs) That is how it is in a madhouse, only a doctor looks crazy. So when are you going to handle it? Slowly, at the age of sixty? I'm asking. When will you learn how to handle my thought, how to handle my emotion, how to handle my body, how to handle my chemistry - when are you going to figure this, at the end of your life? Because this culture has grown - when to do spirituality means when you're seventy, when you're no good for anything else. No. At the earliest possible time, whatever is most profound about you, not about heavens, about this life, everything Only then you'll live a sensible life. You okay, if we tell you a joke, you won' t get offended? Because this is the most serious crowd I've ever seen in the last few years. Sadhguru (Talks aside): How many of them are journalists here? (Laughter) Most of them? Okay (Laughs/Laughter) This happened - Shankaran Pillai, when he was in Paris, was married to a French woman. One day, it was their anniversary - first anniversary. So she invited a bunch of friends, and she wanted to cook something really fresh, everything fresh. So from morning, she was driving him to this market, that market. He got this fresh vegetables, fresh meat, fresh chicken, this, that, everything. Then in the evening, she said - because - she said, "Go to the beach and get some snails, fresh. And I will make some appetizer for all the friends who are coming." So Shankaran Pillai went to the beach and Then he met an old friend, an Indian guy, they hit it off forgot that he's married. You know, when you meet old and they had a few drinks, and he just forgot. Then he one snail fell out of the bucket. He realized, "Oh my god, she's waiting." So he said, "I need to go." And he went. By going to be pleasant. So he came near the house and bucket, and went and knocked on the door. The French guys. We're almost there. Come on. Let's go!" So when bucket and fix them? Hmm? Your problems, you must fix understand you are not suffering your life, you're only human that we have these two fantastic faculties.One is this memory our life is so rich unlike any other creature Now this is what you're suffering, what happened Are you suffering life or memory? Hello? Memory! What suffering. Are you suffering life or imagination? Participants: Imagination. Sadhguru: Two most fantastic faculties you have you are become once again an earthworm. An earthworm is a But it took millions of years of evolution to get you If we take away half your brain, of course you will sit peacefully. What we need is we need to remove your yes or no? Because we gave you a very complex manual, you want to just blunder around. No? Young if you don't know how, we will give you tools how to will come, more issues come up in your life means you're not living. Yes, lots of issues every day. I have the daily basis because so much of activity around the Volunteers means nobody is qualified for the job and what to do? So, this one thing you must fix that is Whatever the issue, we'll do our best