Hi I'm Laura Flanders. Today on the show, a conversation about capitalism Dr Cornel West and Professor Rick Wolff and operating under a different economic paradigm. All that and a few words from me on who's That's all coming up. Welcome to our program. [music] The great liberation of the middle class. That's what Karl Marx called the US war of Getting out from under feudalism was nice, to empower America's workers. He didn't, as it turned out. Largely, he believed, because the newly emerging the longed-for liberty, equality, fraternity, In fact, quite the opposite. That's why many are giving Karl Marx a new Among them, our next guests. Richard Wolff teaches economics at the New Economic Update Program on Pacifica radio Prof Cornel West is the author of Race Matters, of Smiley and West on public radio. Welcome you both to the program, I'm so glad -It's a blessing to be here Let me start with the basics, you two. Thank you so much. You've been revisiting old masters. I know because we did a panel together about You're doing another panel with Gail Dines you're talking about Marx. Why? Why are you visiting these folks? Professor Wolff, Rick. I think the biggest plug for it now is that It imploded on itself in 2008 and it hasn't All the talk about recovery not withstanding, The gap between most people on the one hand the other is becoming a kind of daily obscenity And so people are naturally asking, &quot;Is this And discovering that there's a whole tradition &quot;No, we can do better.&quot; And that we have to question a system that But Marx was a German writing about industrialism Is that relevant to people here in the States Especially African Americans? Oh, I think it's very relevant. Karl Marx was one of the great prophetic figures of capitalism that kept track of the precious No one can deny under global capitalism that plutocrats. No one can deny that big banks and big corporations No one can deny that working people are not fund folk are. Wall street people are. So that wealth inequality and all that goes it. So, in that sense, Marxist analysis is probably make sense of a highly financialized monopoly What did he write about the US? Did he write much? Oh, yeah. He made his living such as it was, working United States for many of his years. It was through that that he covered the Civil of slavery. That was very important and he wrote voluminously This was a man who basically understood that likened to the French Revolution ... or you of the French Revolution-liberty, equality, These were the promise of a capitalism that a society that was free and equal and had And by the time he's a young man, he realizes Capitalism had indeed replaced feudalism, and fraternity. And then he made that great breakthrough and liberty, equality, fraternity. It's the biggest obstacle we face to arrive And that was the impetus for the work that operated as such an obstacle. But how does that work out? In this country, we're given the idea that is about freedom. And freedom resonates. Resonated with centuries of people in this Well, I think freedom, like everything else-like eye of the beholder. Freedom to do what? Marx was very clever. He said, &quot;Yes, you can free a person from thing they are in enslaved to another system Marx loved to use the phrase &quot;wage slave&quot; that when you move from slave or peasant status out to be another kind of slavery leading break has to be made. And then Marx tells us how and why that's But that's a tricky sell in the US, or at because freedom from slavery was a big plus getting paid nothing at all was certainly Oh, no doubt, no doubt. I think Marx was also preoccupied with what's Which is democracy. See, Marx was part of a radical democratic at institutions must shake the direction of So, wage slavery is another form of undemocratic voices, and of course Brother Wolff talks insight in his recent works, that the voices And so America talks about it's love of democracy looks very cryptofeudalistic in terms of those of those with unions. But, I mean, Brother Wolff lays this out. Do you want to come in on that? Sure, I mean, Cornel says it very nicely and When you go to work in the morning, in a capitalist what you do, how you do it, what's done with all handled by a tiny group of people, over They can fire you, and do when they think This is the opposite of democracy. In a democratic workplace, you would say every this participates in making the decisions That's the democratic idea. And the modern capitalist enterprise is the That's why it's always been so bizarre to in its workplaces should present itself as the world. Talk about our relation to the world in all Is everywhere seeing a kind of revival of seeing it in this country? I wouldn't say it's in the same way, but you're Even people who don't know that they're inspired Let's remember, you know, Marx is an exile the middle of the 19th Century, and by now, face of this planet. That's an astonishing spread. It is, in a sense, everywhere. And so it's rediscovered periodically because have that struggle back and forth. But just to pick three examples, in Alberta, power for the first time people who have been In Greece, we have a whole new shift of a as Marxist. And now in Spain as well, a radical alteration. We see everywhere that a capitalism that can as this one is producing, as Marx, by the and it's own grave diggers by the very way Now, Cornel, you've been in the civil rights Go back to the 60s, the 50s. There was more Marx, if you like, in the civil today. Fair enough? Cornel West: Oh, absolutely. I come from, black people, who ... our very is democratic, symbolic action. Every voice is lifted in the orchestra. There's not one monolithic patriarchal figure. Count might call it the Duke Ellington band, Hodges and the others. Every voice must be heard in the collective Same is true in the workplace for Marx. But also, and I would add, even with Marx, called &quot;The Ethical Dimensions of Marxist It's democracy on the one hand, but it's individuality Marx comes out of Schiller. He comes out of German romanticism. He's concerned about the precious humanity individuality. So individuality and democracy go hand in Individuality and democracy go hand in hand. So, there was deep overlap. That's why Martin Luther King, Jr. ended up And in the black tradition going back to reconstruction, People out from under slavery, running for But also this incredible co-investment, investment Cooperatively owned farms, property. Public education and so forth. But again, I draw a distinction between individuality You see, individualism tilts in the capitalist Individuality is radical democratic levelers I was part of a conversation not so long ago friend Gar Alperovitz and the issue was raised you could have a new economic system, as we've fail to be inclusive, and that are taken apart, Going back to the 30s, why where farm workers standards act laws and so on and so forth. What are we doing now to make sure that doesn't economy, Rick? I think it's the notion of inclusion is crucial That is, when I, for example, talk a lot about basic institutions that produce the goods the central motif. It's a democratic process of including every So that when you go to work, you are not going You're not going to be told what to do, how You're going into an institution, the workplace, Where you share all of the functions with That's a radical new way to describe the workplace, important expenditure of their time. Five days out of seven, eight hours of the are. And therefore, to make that really democratically of any society, and is why Marx is important. Because he pointed us as to how and why that a way that no one else really was able to You talk about worker determined enterprises. Right. Elected and determined. There a lot of people that would say that enterprise. Are there models out there that excite you, That you see where people are developing these we don't call new economy but it's out there I think there's a lot of worker cooperative In Spain, and again Brother Wolff talked about and sisters play a very important role because too. Proudhon and others talk about this as an I think the big difference is ... one of the because they think of Lenin, they think of professional revolutionaries running political deep love of working and poor people ensuring and therefore talking about cooperatives and parties that dictating x or y. Soviets without Bolsheviks. That's the Kronstadt Rebellion. That's the council communism of Gorter and That's very much tradition that we're a part But when you get to Mao and Lenin, that's They say, &quot;Oh, no, you got some professionals No, that's authoritarian again. It's not democratic. That's like trying to transform Duke Ellington's It's not going to work. You're not going to get the improvisation Now, of course, front line communities, communities better at this because they have to be. Then the elites are very happy being in that the world's population, or whatever it is. Does Marx have any insight on how do we flip Well, I think Marx had a cosmopolitan sensibility. He's open to all persons, no matter how oppressed ... willing to be part of a cooperative enterprise I think, you know, you and I would agree that poor people, among blacks, and browns, and so forth. But we do have rich traditions of cooperative lesbians and so forth. And we're up against one heck of an entrenched Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. And yet, as Marx himself explained, when the running it for their own profit, and the number are watching our futures and our hopes disappear their own capacity to survive. I think we're at a time in the history of self destruction awaiting us to become no the passing of capitalism leads up in a place be in. And that's a heavy burden on us, but there's we're going to let this system take us down Last word, Cornel? That's very real. That's very real. We've got impending ecological catastrophe, we've got capitalist catastrophe tied to white of Jews, Arabs, Muslims, gay, lesbian. We are in a dark moment. Marx had a blue sensibility. He was keeping track of the darkness and the was always possible. I love that about him. And I am cheered by the fact that we are even And you two have it a lot. Thank you so much, both of you for coming Thank you. Thanks for the opportunity. Get more information and more on this conversation Manju Rajendran has been making waves as an We recently got a chance to talk to her about has been successful at modeling an anti-capitalist Here's Manju: [music] Five years ago, our family began an incredibly called Vimala's Curry Blossom Cafe and it's has been cooking since she was seven. She's an incredible, incredible cook. And she's an incredible cook because she cooks Like she thinks of it as her ministry, as as her vehicle for change. And it is a huge contribution to social justice It began after 18 years of a community kitchen And even the creation of the community kitchen So when I was, I guess, 12 or 13 a bunch of up in invited my mom to come out for dinner abuse that you're living with is unlivable, you out of there,&quot; and she said &quot;It's not immigration status and I don't have the financial And they said to her, &quot;Well every time we feed us. What if we were to give you a little bit of food to feed our families.&quot; And so she started cooking big amounts of takeout out of the side door of our tiny little was raising her own small independent income day when the opportunity came to run away And we left. We lived underground for a few weeks and we people's, whatever they could offer us to And we kept the community dinners going through People would put whatever they could afford Then after 18 years of this a jealous restaurant told the Health Department that we were doing They said &quot;You've gotta bust this&quot; [laughs] the Health Department just called, we have be serving out in this place, she told my Tell all the people to come back to the house So they ate it all. And the next day we kind of began strategizing I was living in Chicago at the time and she are willing to come home and help this restaurant And so I said yes, and I moved home from Chicago. We had our soft opening at the time of the And we pay workers a living wage, we source family farms. We work hard to have as much shared decision ways. We're part of the pilot composting program what most restaurants have to throw away. We're part of a national organizing effort restaurant workers. We're serving healthy locally sourced, affordable really shifts the dynamics around the Southern [music] That was Manju Rajendran recorded at the Allied If you have a story about a business that's BP's settlement for the Deepwater Horizon Five Gulf coast governors as well as the US glory for the largest settlement with a single But who's in deep for the Deepwater? Beneath the headlines, it looks as if you In case you missed it, under terms announced $18.7 billion to resolve claims related to Five states stand to gain from the payouts approximately $6.8 billion according to Governor In her announcement, A.G. Loretta Lynch declared has been "fully committed to holding BP and the economy of the region "at the expense But if that's what the DOJ committed to, As we've mentioned before, when corporations a tax deduction. Restitution, unlike a criminal penalty or of doing business". Of that $18.7 billion, the Justice Department Clean Water Act violations. The rest will likely be tax-deductible, even of gross negligence. $18.7 billion is a hefty sum, but it's one for. It seems to suggest that bad behavior can No maybe it's no wonder that five years after coast was coated in crude oil this spring. If the DOJ had seized BP's assets and taken message. Tell me what you think. Write to me, laura@grittv.org and thanks. [music] What does it take to go from a moment to a Today we're dedicating the entire Laura Flanders People in Baltimore are tired of just sitting going to make change ourselves, whether it's or daily protests, whatever it is, we're going [music] [music] Today on the Laura Flanders Show, Andrew Cockburn fights war, George Bush, let's hear it for in his use of diplomative drone assassination, torture them. Later in the program, we look at the story Fahd Ghazy was one of the first men to arrive He was just a few months past his high school [music] [music]