Why Is It So Tough To Go To Saturn? Hey everyone, listen to this... According humans could land on Jupiter, and in about 130 analyzed tens of thousands of articles technology needed for space missions. Using model that estimates the most likely dates for an area between Earth and the Moon from which The closest manned mission is, of course, main asteroid belt (between Mars and Jupiter) Jupiter's major moons between 2101 and 2121. The which, if all goes as planned, will And it's Saturn that we want to talk about how long it would take to reach the planet with we might have in over a century. There are it all boils down to one thing: &quot;nuclear Some numbers before we begin... Saturn... the sixth planet in the solar the second in diameter and mass after Jupiter. almost 10 times that of Earth. of 1,433.5 billion kilometers... Mass equal to 95.2 times that of Earth... Rotation period of 10.55 hours... A hostile and violent world, unmanned probes many years ago. After Pluto's demotion, the planets in our Solar divided into two large families: the rocky ones which are the four between the Sun and the mainly of rocks and solid-fluid materials, which are between the main asteroid belt and the are enormous balls of gas, composed traces of methane and ammonia or similar, satellites of various sizes. These are the Unlike the rocky planets, all four more or less evident. More precisely, Saturn while those of the other planets are less dense, making them almost invisible without a telescope. Saturn's rings, however, have been visible instruments like those of Galileo and Huygens, early 1980s when NASA's Voyager 1 spacecraft planets. At the time, scientists hypothesized the rest of the solar system, about 4.6 billion a different story. High-resolution images sent less than researchers had predicted, indicating ten and one hundred million years ago, But there's more... not only did the rings but the hypothesis that they are literally Saturn's rings lose a lot of their material. disturb the tiny dusty fragments of the rings suddenly transformed, resonate with Saturn's those invisible paths. When the particles get too gravity pulls them in, and they Astronomers call this &quot;ring rain,&quot; a process fantastic adornment completely. Not that this hundreds of thousands of years for complete think that in the future, there could be a this happens quite often even now... And on of Saturn's globe without its rings will due to geometric perspective issues, &quot;before moving on, don't forget to subscribe make sure to hit the notification bell so But of course, Saturn's importance for and history of its rings. Saturn also boasts in the entire solar system: a whopping 146 1 km in diameter to the massive Titan, Why are we spending so much time talking about the real treasure of Saturn, and the won't be the gas giant itself, nor the fleeting beauty of its rings, which are No, the real reason will be its moons, So, the question this video how long does it take to get to Titan? For those not familiar with orbital way to reach a planet (or its moon) from Earth then point the rocket in its direction and launch. The most obvious is that planets, including they move in nearly circular orbits at speeds &quot;aiming and shooting,&quot; you need to put the a Hohmann transfer orbit) that connects be when the spacecraft reaches its orbit. The actual travel time is half the time needed to easily calculated using Kepler's third law. For an ellipse with a major axis equal to the sum of can be completed in less than 17 months, 8.5 months. The calculation for Saturn Note that a Hohmann transfer orbit once to leave Earth's orbit and once to match Could we go faster? Sure, but we'd which would also mean increasing the Additionally, we must consider that the travel we want with the planet. There's a big difference flyby. In the first case, the departure speed must insertion, which means carrying and burning a In the second case, the departure speed can be This is why some missions to Jupiter have been But it's not just about speed... Another limiting planets is the weakening sunlight as you move panels become completely useless for generating energy source, like a nuclear battery, which would Another issue is communication signals would take 1.3 hours to reach us, potential problems. This is particularly around the planet would need to be conducted OK, but after all this talk, it's time to we've discussed to the challenge of getting to it's always useful to look at Pioneer 11 was the first mission to fly by second probe to use a gravity assist. Thanks to and managed to reach and pass Saturn in 1979. In November 1980, Voyager 1, also accelerated Saturn in a record 1,165 days, just over 3 years! In 1997, Cassini was launched towards Saturn. involving gravity assists from Venus, Earth, in 2,452 days (6.7 years) with minimal fuel by the need to slow down for orbital insertion. for a mission to fly by Saturn up to the Much less than it would have taken if the At this point, a journey of only three years to but we must consider that we are talking about probes, programmed to maintain a flyby speed and which have used several gravity assists to manned mission, which would represent one of With current technology, a manned would indeed require no less than a dozen large spaceship where people could live and the amount of fuel a real enormity. There form of propulsion capable of reducing In short, if NASA really wants to land 2153--as predicted in the article video--then it must first consider (as to find an alternative to the current Chemical propulsion is currently the It exploits the chemical reaction of fuels and using chemical propulsion and gravity unmanned probe can take between 3 and 8 years, an orbital insertion mission. Chemical but its efficiency is limited, requiring large travel times for a probe, which are even Instead, there already exists, and has already ion propulsion, which uses electricity (usually noble gases like xenon) to very high the reduction in time would be minimal, with of propellant compared to chemical propulsion. So, in the end, it always comes back to the interplanetary species, it will need to find a And despite the fact that there are currently or less exotic, it seems that nuclear remains, Nuclear propulsion uses nuclear while antimatter propulsion exploits the releasing enormous amounts of energy. With nuclear to less than 6 months, while antimatter times to a few weeks. These technologies offer but they are still in experimental development and It will be a real shame for us older folks that will one day lead humans to but we can already imagine it all. And