Master, I want to eat another bowl Shhh! Hey What's wrong, tiger? Consort, you were born poor Your five elements lack nothing Just short of money, you see since you came There are fewer and fewer pilgrims in our Taoist temple. Look at our grandfather again What has he become now? master Hey Fubao, do you want to go down the mountain? I really want to eat another bowl Go down the mountain and make money You stay like this As a teacher, I should eat and sleep rough Hey Fubao This jade pendant was picked up by your teacher You carry him close to your body You even took him with you this time down the mountain Maybe you will encounter some special opportunity to hold it. Accumulate good deeds after going down the mountain Wait until the patriarch returns to the golden body Your poor life will turn around Master, don't worry. I will definitely make a lot of money to support the master and Taoist temple OK Go ahead. Old lady old lady Call an ambulance Cardiac disorder Risk of cardiac arrest Hey, what kind of heart-protecting pills are you feeding the old lady? Grandma's heart is out of order If you don't take care of the owner in time, you can't wait for the ambulance to come and go What to go to protect the heart pill If the rescue is delayed Have good fruit to eat and go fast Humph Grandma is all right old lady You're awake It was that little girl who saved me just now Pass it on City-wide search for He Jia who provided swimming clues I bought it. old lady The little Taoist priest took the direction of Haicheng City We should be able to find someone by driving down the road Go to Haicheng District Master, can you help me take a look at my boyfriend? Is it me Zheng Yuan? Yeah. Exactly. And your boyfriend has only one girlfriend like you. I'm going to marry you His family I like you too. He did say I was his first girlfriend That's because your boyfriend likes men. His family knows Just waiting to lie to your family? This hey Now the two are dating at your house What! Hey, female donor master I've been married for years and I can't get pregnant Is there any help? Of course there is a cure for this. This is simple. So take my talisman back and drink it Don't 998 Don't want 698 today. Mm, six. 98 will do Ok ok ok ok But Miss, you are not sick? It's your husband who can't give birth Just change someone What! Where did you come from, little boy? Which Taoist temple did you slip down from? Does anyone care? I'm not sneaking It was Master Pingzhen who told me to go down the mountain You are really an apprentice Yes, you know my master I almost became your senior brother But your level master will not accept you I can hear I haven't been out yet today Never mind. Stall closed Ah close the stall Today, in the face of Pingzhen I'll take you to dinner But we have to agree on the premise We are full Not at the stall I have steamed buns. What did you say? You didn't smash my stall. I didn't make any money It would be nice to have steamed buns to eat. You're still picky Let me tell you something. Nowadays, people like to hear lies To be honest, you can't make money You know what? It's not. The master said to be honest I can't go. Hey me That's all I have left. You heard that you should respect the old and love the young This I Hey. The little benefactor has finally found you Remember me? Grandma, are you alright? Yeah, thanks to you Here's 20 million in cash I also thank you for saving my life hahaha Looking at the old lady doesn't look like a liar How did 20 million turn into a few dollars? Come here and I'll ask you what your five elements are missing The master who lacks money said that I was born poor Too poor to keep in my hands Will save up for good luck accumulate I can change my life when I save enough blessings The old lady is like this You also saw that this baby has a hard life You and I can only eat steamed buns every day to get by I think you are also full of children and grandchildren How about this? He also saved you You are destined for him Please take him away. Ah, that's wonderful. No way. I have a special destiny Five elements lack of money Don't implicate grandma The entire Haicheng There is no richer person than our He family Go home with grandma Is grandma's family really rich? Aren't you afraid that I'm tired? Don't worry. Grandma's family lacks a little granddaughter who can spend money Haha go haha Sure enough, it's all a destined opportunity Hey Why did you light up a nail? It seems that Fu Bao has to continue to work hard. Can grandma eat all these? Certainly not. Grandma will let the kitchen make it for you Yeah thanks grandma Good lucky treasure, eat it, haha. Son, I found my little benefactor The child has no parents Poor very It just so happens that there are no girls in our house I'll adopt it for you He will be your daughter from now on Dad? I have a daughter. You don't want everyone to stay at home In case it's someone else Didn't grandma never find it? I can see that this kid has absolutely no bad intentions Besides, Fubao saved my life one tree Maybe your legs can be shown to him Over the years I searched for famous doctors Everyone says it can't be cured In the past two years, a little genius doctor has been obsessed with jujube But no one knows where it is in the secluded mountain forest It's okay, son, don't be discouraged. Whether it's grandma or little doctor Will you find it? Nan Nan Dad will definitely find you Is Fubao full? Full grandma Did I eat a little too much hahaha Not much. Not much. Fubao Do you want a father or not? What is dad Dad is the one who keeps you full at every meal. Okay, okay, I'll give Dad the reward Haha, okay, okay, come on. Bring the little lady to Jingchuan There is Mrs. Fu When Bao saw him, he hugged his legs and called Dad. Bye grandma Okay, bye. Haha, slow down. Dad? Who are you? I am Fubao Grandma said that starting today You are my father Get up! I'm not your father OK Did your son see Fubao? Isn't it cute? Mom, take him back to me quickly Oops, I have a bad heart. Going to the resort to recuperate Anyway, the Fubao adoption procedures have been completed He is your daughter now i Are you my dad now? I beg your pardon. I'm not your father. Ok, Daddy. daddy What's up? I want to sleep with my brother No, you go to the children's room to sleep Fubao has not had a father since he was a child A child without a father is like grass Every time I see other children being coaxed to sleep by their father Telling bedtime stories Fubao thought it would be nice if he had a father too Okay, okay. Go to bed. But no bedtime stories. Hmm. If Nana were still around Are you going to act like a spoiled child? Wow daddy Good morning Have breakfast daddy Grandma said you can make Fubao eat a full meal Is that right? Has this child been abused before? I can't even get enough to eat. Ok ok Thank you, Daddy. Grandma was right I think my dad can eat a full meal Can't you afford it at home? It was just sent out, right? Daddy was so smart last time Daddy, why are you so lazy? Don't you stand up and walk? I am sick sick But daddy's legs are not sick. What do children know? I can see it. Daddy's legs are shrouded in evil spirits So I can't stand up Not really sick What can you see? Dad, did you forget that I am a Taoist priest? You can see things that ordinary people can't Don't worry about it at a young age We are now a materialist society Don't make this mess Daddy, where are you going ? go to work I'm going with Daddy, Daddy Go change clothes Ah ok Daddy, wait for me. I'll be quick. So much evil Same as on daddy's soil Looks like Daddy is being watched I have a meeting You stay here. What if you're hungry? Just call the front desk Don't run around, do you hear me? OK What's so weird about this door? This is for a pregnant woman. It's all murderous here The source is also nearby No, don't let Storm's meal ticket daddy happen This one has it. As a result, I checked the last one. The president is not good. The little lady is gone What! It seems that this is the center of the Eight Trigrams Formation The whole company is evil It's the opposite here. There will be a steady stream of good luck Where to go? Grandpa Don't act like a spoiled child Did I tell you? Don't run around Fubao didn't run around Fubao found the source of the murderous aura on his father's legs Dad, you have been put into a gossip array What gossip array In layman's terms, it is turned to luck Transfer the good luck of others to one person The location I just went to is the source. As long as you break the formation Daddy's legs will be fine Children's family Don't talk nonsense. My legs can't be cured by a famous doctor at all I'm not talking nonsense. Can use this needle He must be related by blood to his father And the whole building lives in his office Shrouded in Rize's Qi If dad doesn't believe it Just follow me! I will definitely cure my father's leg Huo Lianwen and I are indeed showing a relationship How does he know? Can Fubao really cure my leg? Why are you here? Because there is a lot of Rize gas here Daddy, you'll know right away if it's lucky or not I turn I don't change the world Back to heaven and earth I'll try it. Su Guangjin I often think Sure enough, what was I expecting? So many famous doctors can't do anything about my legs I'm counting on a child Daddy, don't worry. The murderous aura has not been broken yet Zibao is just using the sharp gas here Let Daddy stand up for now It's not advisable to stay here long Daddy better get out quickly Why can't I save him? Didn't you say that the luck that saves you is the most important? Because these fortunes are stolen If you suck too much, you will get a backlash So That's what we did. Not necessarily. It's very complicated to make a gossip array. Zhengda Battle Flag drums all good luck to one place That guy's going to be lucky for a while When it's over, it will be attacked thousands of times No one will see it that way unless Unless he doesn't know it himself Then I was taken advantage of. Oh so complicated Daddy, get out of here I'm going to take these spirits and study them Let's go home together when it's over. Pay attention safety OK Where did the nosy little doll come from? You are from the judicial force How did you get in? Come in, I'm already here. You are stupid Nothing found. I must take you down today pack Jewelry How are you doing? Daddy Daddy I'm fine Hahaha, since you found out. Then I'll send you to die together Please don't hurt my dad Fubao Dangerous Golden Light Speed is now negative real person in a hurry Golden Curse How is that possible? Heaven and Earth Nature bad luck dispersion The chest will dissipate in a hurry Fubao, are you alright? Dad, I'm fine. I'll protect you too chong chong Somebody call an ambulance Are you still feeling unwell when you wake up? Dad is having a hard time It really doesn't hurt Let the doctor check again. Miss Ye is fine That was energy consumption. Plus a coma due to blood loss OK, I see. Daddy, the Bagua array has been cracked The person who did bad things to daddy It will soon be devoured by evil spirits Bad luck Who let you just hold the one in front of me? Do you have any idea how dangerous it is? Fubao has no relatives Dad and grandma are lucky after going down the mountain The best person for Fubao Fubao must protect his father and grandmother Anyway, there will be no next time I am an adult I can protect myself Can also protect It can also protect you. So Daddy likes Fubao too, right? Who would like your little bald skin? Does Daddy really not like Fubao? like I knew daddy was duplicitous Hey, hey. A bowl of pot Fubao, my dear granddaughter. Are you all right? Grandma, I'm fine. Just a little injury It's fine It's fine Scared grandma to death Mom Aren't you at the resort? It's not because of your dignified group president Can't even take care of a child It's only one day Took my baby granddaughter to the hospital This is indeed my negligence. Grandma doesn't care about daddy Daddy has done a great job It's the bad guys who want to hurt Daddy and Fu Bao It's only one day Fubao is biased towards Dad Not towards grandma Forget it, my bad old lady should go Fubao doesn't care anyway Grandma, you are not a bad wife Grandma is the best looking in the world The most generous and kind grandma Ha ha. Grandma who can still make Fubao full of food hahaha You elf Hahaha, do you want to go back to the old house with grandma? Forget it, grandma, I'm going with dad Help daddy punish the bad guys And fix daddy's leg Fubao can cure Jingchuan's legs Is what Jingchuan Fubao said true? You have moles on your leg. Mom, that's what the kid said. So many famous doctors can't do anything about my leg. Besides, Fubao is still a 5-year-old child Yeah. I was too greedy. Grandma, don't underestimate children. I can fix Daddy's leg Yes, yes, our Fubao is not ordinary. The little kids. Grandma believes in you Haha, that's right. The Ji family is holding a charity auction in Haicheng I heard they're going to take out Master Yukong's favorite unicorn statue during his lifetime It is said to be kept at home. You can bless the peace of the house Protect children and grandchildren You know these things to me If you don't believe it, even if you compensate Fubao Someone saved your life What is a grandma auction? Is it fun? Fubao wants to go, hahaha. Go go go to Fubao go hahaha Why does it always feel weird today? What the hell is this chair? Who moved it? I'll go. Who put this quilt? Who the hell did this pig's foot? Who are you? Come out It's lawless. you Isn't this Mr. He from Jingsheng Group? Who is the little girl next to you? Her daughter? Oh no. Hasn't the He family's little granddaughter been missing for several years? cousin I know you are selfish But you are like this now You can't just find someone to replace Nan Nan, right? This is my personal business Don't bother outsiders Dude, it's a bit emotional for you to say that. How can I be an outsider? OK Uncle, how long has it been since you brushed your teeth? Mouth stinks I can't breathe right now What nonsense are you talking about? Ono enough He Liangwen, if you still want to participate in the auction Just get back in your seat Who moved the broken chair? That person just now looked like a fool. It seems that everything has been done And that's just the beginning. It will be worse in the future Let's leave him alone. The auction is about to begin Sit down Daddy He Jingchun Dad retired too early Wait until I take away your wife Whether it is Inoue Group or He Jing Will make me a move All are welcome to attend Charity auction held by Jijia There are three lots in this auction What about one of them? It's the much-anticipated Kirin Lane. There are still two mysterious lots left. Proceeds from all auctions All will be donated to the Hope House charity Now I announce that the auction is officially open This round of auction is the love of Master Yukong before his death Kirin term Many of his friends came specifically for him Legend has it that the unicorn that can suppress all evil Starting price 8 million This is what Mom said about the Kirin project. 8.50 million I 9 million 20 million God 20 million Directly doubled This is even the treasure that Master Yukong has opened up It's not worth 20 million 20.5 million 25 million His brother, this unicorn, seems to protect his children and grandchildren Your family is guaranteed by the children Besides, you're completely broken. You want him useless Why don't you leave him to me? On this ability I'm still not as good as my cousin Bastards run around before marriage Hey, that's what I have cousin My happiness You will never experience it in your life Since you are so capable Why should I give you the unicorn statue? Auctions are always for the highest bidder Brother Tang, you can't afford tens of millions How come? I give 25.5 million This evil is worth over 20 million It can support several masters. Taoist temples don't work Never let Dad waste money Daddy, don't shoot this, what's the matter? Mind is good But this is a funeral object Yin Qi is too heavy Not only can't the town house And it kills lives. How did you know I could see? Like evil spirits They're all colored. Wait a minute daddy I have Uncle, you only add a little bit every time you call for an increase. Is there not enough money? No money, no need for your money. My dad can buy it. If you really like it You can come to my house to have a look in the future. Who says I can't afford it? I'm just looking at the face of everyone's relatives I'll increase the price less. Since you say so Don't blame me for being rude I don't believe it. Can you take something from my dad? I give 30 million 35 million is worthy of the He family So generous Yeah, just increase the price 5 million 45 million Uncle, don't you have enough money? Do you need my father to borrow it? Even if you can't take a picture I want to be sick too. You have money, right? Good idea. Then I'll let you spend enough 80 million You you Who made him speak ill of his father? Uncle, you are so rich I'll leave it to you then. 80 million a time 80 million twice 80 million three transactions Congratulations to Mr. He Liangwen for obtaining the Town House Kirin item How dare you play with me? Uncle, you offered such a high price. My father saw that you really liked it and gave it to you. Why are you still angry? Right. Is this manager He to raise prices? In fact, I don't want it anymore Is this a malicious auction? Do you still want this unicorn item? Are you going to be in debt? I don't have it. I came down today just for the unicorn. I was just so happy. Then I'll thank you for being a father. You're welcome. Ono, what are you laughing at? He Liangwen Fubao is my child of the He family You speak rudely again I will kick you out of Jingsheng Group The general manager will leave it to someone else to do He Jingsheng I'll tell you what. The uncles of Jingsheng Group would not agree Jingsheng Group is not up to you Yes, try it then. Mr. Helanwen, please come to the stage Hahahaha Hahaha You did it. Who let him bully daddy Don't listen to him. Daddy's legs will definitely get better We don't have to know him in general OK There are the last two lots in today's auction. It is different from the previously disclosed lot. Both of these need to be photographed before opening. treasure What! It can only be opened after being photographed. Then isn't this like opening a blind box? Yeah, who knows what's in there? Hello, distinguished guests Take it easy These two boxes All come from My Drum Tower that has sunk under the water Wujia Drum Tower It used to be the richest place in the country Hasn't that place been quiet for a hundred years? How can you still fish out things? Yes, what about these two boxes? Just found it too For the protection of the lot We didn't have the right to open him. Only the buyer who bought it can open Alipay. Since we didn't buy this Kirin Lane. Let's go to the mall. Pick one you like. Daddy, let's take a picture of that box. Are you sure about that wooden box? It's the wooden box. Can you see what's inside? No, fluoroscopy is laborious Then why are we filming him? Because he's not normal. A normal wooden box has been soaked for a hundred years It's all rotten But he's still fine Although I can't see it May sense the aura inside More is overflowing Hahahaha The child picked up really can't get on the table I actually want a tattered wooden box Well, in that case. I want this golden box I want you to take a good look. What is truly a good thing? First this wooden box Starting price 1 million Even something from a hundred years ago It should be rotten by now, right? What a good thing How dare you bid 1 million It is. It is. What kind of good person would put treasure in a wooden box? Instead, the gold box next to it Maybe something good can come out I'll pay 10 million for this box Did I hear right? 10 million I don't even want this junk box 10 million Is Mr. He crazy? Haha Cousin, even if the He family is not short of money You can't come up with 10 million either Buy a tattered wooden box and play with it It's not rotten wood Much better than your stupid auspicious 10 million only My He family's pocket money for children is more than that Fubao likes it. No matter whether the contents of the box are opened or not I will do it in the name of Fubao Donate another 30% to charity There is no asking price higher. 10 million The Drum Tower wooden gun belongs to Mr. He Jingchuan It's a deal! Congratulations to Mr. He Jingchuan for buying the Drum Tower wooden box for 10 million yuan Mr. He Please ask someone to carry this box away And so forth. Don't take this box away yet The gold box has not been auctioned yet. Wait a minute the auction is over Let everyone see what's inside People say yes, yes We are all guests who passed Stefanie. The right to know what today's lot is I agree that lots are generally open to the public That's right, gambling stones can still know the result We also have the right to know about these boxes. Yeah after all This box has been photographed by Mr. He Jingchuan It depends on Mr. He's wishes Right? My grandmother gave it to you Would you like to open it up for everyone to see? Of course you can. Our Fubao said yes. Ok, thank you Mr. He and Miss Ladies and gentlemen, we will unpack the boxes uniformly after the auction. Next auction Gold box starting price 5 million If this box is made of pure gold Light boxes are more than 5 million I 5.50 million I 6 million 20 million. I don't want this gold box Don't be bored Boring The gold box was lifeless It's not fun, brother, don't worry. I won't let you lose money. It doesn't matter what you offer 10 million only Don't hate him Daddy Alipay There must be something good Congratulations to Mr. He Liangwen for buying the Drum Tower Gold Box for 20 million yuan I took a picture of the gold box. Wait a minute to unpack Don't get slapped in the face. I have already taken a picture of the host's golden box. Now the two boxes can be opened, right? Of course you can. I just learned that VIPs have an unpacking request. So? We specially invited Master Lin, an expert in the treasure appraisal industry Let me introduce you today. And identify the treasures that can be opened in these two boxes Okay Then please come to the stage to open the box for the two VIPs who took the picture of the box. Please go up Well, Alipay has never opened such a box. OK It was meant for you. Go ahead Thank you, Daddy. Wooden box 10 million Gold box 20 million The price is too high. That is. How rare must there be in it to get the money back? I think this gold box is more reliable This wooden box looks like it's about to rot I guess so. 10 million for rotten wood He Jia really loves her adopted daughter Little brat, if you drive out the junk in a while But don't cry for dad You are the rag Ha ha. I advise you before unpacking Hurry up and let He Jingchuan beg the Lord to return it Lest you make people laugh out loud for a while Let's see what happens. Good idea. Don't say I bully children then Then please open the box in front of you Hahahaha Wow God This gold box actually contains some junk It smells musty. 20 million shots of this crap Fortunately, I didn't continue to follow the auction. At that time There are a lot of gold and silver jewelry in this wooden box. Now I'm making a lot of money. Yeah, who would have thought of this junk wooden box? You actually open so many gold and silver jewelry? How is that possible? I spent 20 million Why did you buy a bunch of these rubbish? Daddy, I told you You will definitely see a lot of treasures. Fengbao Keep your word This Fengming glazed cup What glass cup? Isn't this a broken glass? This is not glass. This is a wine glass made of rare colored glass Rumor has it that under the moonlight It can make a crisp phoenix sound So it was named Fengming Liuli Cup. Before? The old man only reads it in books I didn't expect to see plants in my lifetime. These were the most prestigious women of their time Only deserve to have Hey Hey Jiuxuan Alchemy Furnace Hahaha, is this a legend? A medicine furnace that can maximize the medicinal properties of herbs? Isn't this a peerless treasure? Just a legend This is a beautifully crafted little medicine stove. How can there be so many amazing features? It should be the world. For more fun ferry It was real The best alchemy furnace Daddy's legs and grandma's heart can be used Hahaha East China Sea Night Pearl Hahaha Jade Jade Ruyi Nice and valuable Well, a tourmaline necklace. Phoenix Mountain God The gold alone is more than 10 million More than that, look at the craftsmanship on that gold Inlaid Jewelry Tourmaline It's all lost. It can't be calculated at a little gold price I heard that there are private buyers who love to collect these These things can't be sold for hundreds of millions together. Mr. He is really lucky I actually chose such a big baby box. These two boxes should be from the Wu Drum Tower Oops, if Lin guessed correctly It should be the dowry of the landlord's daughter Dowry I heard about that period A woman's dowry is buried in the same coffin Are these funeral objects? I thought it was something. It turned out to be some funeral objects Not a funeral object According to ancient books A hundred years ago, the Wu Drum Tower encountered a severe drought This resident? All evacuated You said there are no graves here Where did you get any funeral goods? This box should have been left during the relocation. I think this unicorn is a funeral object Stinky old man, what nonsense are you talking about? This is Master Yukong's favorite unicorn craftsman during his lifetime That's open. Master Yukong I know This unicorn statue? It was indeed carved by him And he really likes it. Then you have to Just because he likes it so much So they're all buried together until they die Exactly as Fubao said Can he really see? This Qilin Lane is actually a funeral item Let alone sell it at home It doesn't have to be. Even if someone wants to buy it It's not worth 80 million God This He Liangwen spent 100 million to buy a pile of waste Yes! Mr. He, just a wooden box here is a net profit Impossible absolutely impossible master Please help me see There must be a baby in here. Right? I'll help you find it. Look at this These must be ancient books handed down antique Right? I'm just here to appraise the treasure Not here to make treasure There is nothing of value in this box Look at these wooden dishes and chopsticks It's all badly damaged And it's not worth fixing. In other words Just worthless What about my 20 million? Master, do the math for me You see you see This bracelet. Is he a precious antique that has been opened by an eminent monk? Take a look. With all due respect This is the most common grass Bodhi Also called grass beads And you see It's all damaged. It's worth tens of dollars at most that What about this box? Ah, this box is gold How much is this box worth? Oops this box is gold plated The total price does not exceed 10,000 yuan Finished me I spent 100 million to buy a pile of garbage and go back My dad would kill me if he knew Sister, that nine-string alchemy furnace must be kept well. Alchemy furnace Isn't that a rumor? It's not a rumor. With that alchemy furnace The time to make pills can be shortened by at least half But the effect is 10 times that of ordinary pills This will cure daddy's leg And grandma's heart Long-term illness is difficult to treat Especially Dad's legs were poisoned by bad guys It takes a long time to cure But with this alchemy furnace The time can be shortened by at least half It doesn't matter if it doesn't work. As long as Fubao likes it, keep it. Don't worry, brother. What Fubao likes must be useful Hello Mr. He I'm very interested in what's in the box I don't know if you can sell me the whole box. I am willing to pay 300 million What! 10 million bought 300 million sold How many times is that? What did you just say? This broken box is worth 300 million 300 million is a lot of zeros. No, these are all bought by my kids Without his permission I'm not qualified to deal with it. What's up? Daddy, I just want that alchemy furnace Sell everything else. Although Fubao can't calculate how much 300 million is But it must be a lot of money. Grandma and Daddy Fubao went to eat a lot of meals Nothing else. Then leave another Fengming glass cup. Give it to grandma Grandma seems to like collecting these OK, you have the final say. It's like my kid said. Leave the Jiuquan alchemy furnace and the Fengming glazed cup behind. You can make a price for the rest. I'll ask my assistant to find you later. Ok uh Thank you Mr. He and Miss for your love President Ji Zong as the organizer In the private room upstairs Do you want to go up and say hi? We have a project behind us If you can reach a cooperation with Ji's Get twice the result with half the effort. Ji has never cooperated with Haicheng companies But what if they change their mind? Ji sounds like a gentle person But he has his own principles in his bones It doesn't mean change can be changed But I really should say hello to Mr. Ji Go Fubao Let's go say hello to Mr. Ji I'll take you to dinner Long time no see Mr. Ji Long time no see Whose kid is this? This is my daughter, Fubao. Hello uncle ji Fubao Hello Oh, I'm so sorry. Something urgent at home I have to go first I will compensate you earlier today. I'll treat you to dinner when I have a chance later. Uncle Ji, don't go home Go to the hospital first Your wife and children are in danger Pardon me? When Uncle Ji first came in Your upper eyelids suddenly turn black. This is a sign of recent disasters Oh, I did the math. The hexagram indicates that your wife and children are in danger The orientation points to the hospital Not at home Oh. Excuse me? Mr. Ji Fubao usually likes these crazy things Tong Yan Wuji Don't worry about it. Are kids still interested in these things today? But Fubao got it wrong. Uncle, it's really old But no kids. Don't have kids? Yes, just young. Not born This Uncle Fubao not only has no children now Probably never again in my life The hospital found out that I was infertile before Sorry, Mr. Ji Apologize quickly, my love is also a child's kindness? But Uncle Ji Your wife is indeed pregnant Fubao, don't make trouble. Here we go. Hey, adults are really difficult to communicate with Did Uncle Ji just tell you? The woman who lives in your house fell into the river He's still unconscious. Tell you to go back quickly How do you know? I never told anyone else. It was told to me by the light Uncle, what's your relationship with that woman at home? The light shows that he is not your wife. How could he be my wife? His name is Lee Manman My grandfather died. The orphan left behind by a close friend We grew up together. He had nowhere to go. So I've been sleeping at my house You have a wife And let other women come back to your house I treat her as my own sister I see he pitied me The current situation is that your wife also fell into the river Or by that biological sister It was pushed down. But Ying can swim? Manman is the one who won't hexagram display Now the bad aunt is fine. Your wife is more dangerous Now the bad aunt still pretends to be sick to see you Said your wife pushed her down If you don't believe me You can call home now and ask. Hello Brother Ji, don't blame Sister Aying She just doesn't like me living here Just pushed me But I can't swim. So scared now Can you come back and accompany me? It's really the same as what he said Chicken brother If you are sick, go to the doctor And Since Ah Ying doesn't like you living in our house Then you can move out tomorrow. Mr. Ji, although I shouldn't have asked about your family affairs But I think this situation You'd better go to the hospital first. It was Li Man who called just now Exactly as Fubao said Mr. Ji Without Fubao's intervention Who will you choose? My wife No matter what anyone says It must be my wife who is the most important What Fu Bao said is true My wife is really pregnant The doctor said if you come later The child can't be saved Fortunately, it was delivered in time. Congratulations to Mr. Qi This is thanks to the blessing If it weren't for the reminder of Fu Bao The child may be gone I am also very happy to be able to help Uncle Ji. Mr. He is so lucky If I were so smart Just a cute daughter Uncle Ji's wish will come true Auntie's belly is a little sister This is the tire protection room. Just leave it close to your body It worked. Really? That's great. I dream of having a daughter Thank you Fu Bao Two, wait a minute. Uncle Bao, this 10 million cash is for you. Thank you for doing uncle such a big favor Thank you Uncle Ji Boss, you want something? Mr. Hou, I heard that Jinsheng Group has a project Want to cooperate with our technology? This is the contract after you read it. No problem. We sign immediately Mr. Ji, this is And me? It is true that he never cooperates with other companies of Haizheng. But I am very relieved to cooperate with Mr. He After all To raise such an outstanding and intelligent child Absolutely not bad. Happy cooperation. Happy cooperation Baby grandma said today that you are a Taoist priest You change the cause and effect of others like this Will it hurt? Usually not. The master said to punish the bad guys Healing good people is to accumulate blessings The more you do, the better. Don't do anything against the law of heaven Will not be backfired backlash If you are bitten back Light or unconscious If it is heavy, the soul and the heart will be destroyed. How can that be considered a violation of the law of heaven? It's hard to explain Forcibly change your life against the sky Once upon a time, a senior uncle secretly used forbidden techniques to renew the life of a young man Was bitten in the middle Later, the uncle became a fool But don't worry, Dad Bao would never do such a thing Let's take a look at the gift Uncle Jing gave us first OK This season is always too stingy Didn't you say 10 million? Why only a dollar? Hey The money was taken away by the grandfather again Now I only have 3 bucks left in my pocket I can't even afford a bowl of noodles Wait, vice president Why do you only have 3 yuan? Did grandma not give you 20 million before? Because I was born poor Five elements lack of money Can't keep money All the money given to me will be taken away by my grandfather I want to save more merit Let the patriarch return to the golden body My poor life has taken a turn for the better In the name of the castle Donate another 50 million to charity Daddy, this is useless money I need to earn it back by myself But don't worry, Dad I must grab my father's legs Work hard to make money Change this lack of money Hey You are back Mom, why are you here? I'm here to tell you that I found the genius doctor of the smart leg It's the little genius doctor from before Is small The master of the divine doctor is a very capable Taoist priest The Taoist priest said that the little genius doctor has been traveling recently and can't find anyone. So I asked the Taoist priest to come down and treat you Fubao can also heal Daddy's legs Hahaha, okay, okay. Fubao will also give Jingchuan Zhi a try together. Fubao is at auction this time Did you buy something you like? Grandma, we photographed a wooden box. This is a Fengming glazed cup. I took it back specially for grandma. Really? I used to see grandma's room I have a lot of these shiny and beautiful things in my collection. Grandma, do you like it? I like grandma, I especially like it. Thank you, my granddaughter. This is grandma's favorite gift ever. Or granddaughter? Fubao is grandma's sweet little cotton-padded jacket. Because grandma is also the best grandma in the world Good, good, all good, all good, hahaha. I almost forgot my dad's legs I want to try the alchemy furnace today Daddy grandma I'll go to my room first. Slow down. If grandma were there As warm and cute as Fubao, right? No matter whether you can find grandma or not Fubao is my daughter Fubao What's the matter with looking for a teacher? Master, Fubao has done good deeds in the past two days And made a lot of money. Will you share a little of the spirit of the patriarch now? I just watched it too. Fubao, such a short time Let the patriarch restore a golden arm It seems that the patriarch is all golden The teacher is not far away Fubao Come on, keep trying Master, don't worry. I will try my best to save blessings How is the lucky newspaper doing after going down the mountain? Did you find any clues to your biological parents? No biological parents were found We found a new dad and grandma They kept Fubao fed at every meal. He also took Fubao out to play They were wonderful people. That's good, that's good. Fubao, I have to go down the mountain in a few days Someone is out Big money for me to see him After seeing the doctor? I will make time to see you What master is coming? Then I'll take the master to see the new family Okay, let's get in touch then. Now I have to get ready. I'll see you later. OK Then I have to hurry up and refine the alchemy medicine to cure my father and grandma As long as the master comes You can see a healthy family Master will be happy for me Humph Fubao Fubao Ouch, it's been 3 days. He has never come out of the room, Fu Bao's mother Don't worry Fubao Fubao It's dad and grandma Open the door! Fubao, open the door You haven't eaten for days What happened to Fubao? Fubao Fubao Fubao Ma Get out of the way and I'll try to break it OK The yam is ready Daddy grandma Why are you here? Fubao, you scared grandma to death You haven't left your room for three days We thought something happened to you Has it been three days? Yes! I'm too focused on ammo Didn't pay attention to the time Grandma, this is Huxin Dan. Daddy, this is Huashan Pill. It can transfer the evil energy in your body The evil spirit drifts away You can pick it up completely. Huxin Dan is grandma who was sick before Did Fubao give you the pills? Well, it's an enhanced version. This nine-spin alchemy furnace You can multiply the effect of the drug to a hundred Better than ever before Grandma needs to keep eating for a while Basically it won't happen again Oh, really? Hey. The mind is really smooth I feel like what's stuck in my heart is gone Police, try it too Mom, it's not a snack How can you just try it? Besides, Fubao is just a child Why are you messing around with him? What is this nonsense? I was saved by Fubao when I was sick. I believe it anyway Besides, the truth doesn't hurt. What if? Ah eat it Well, Shubao never talks big Ok ok I eat How did it go? A little hot This is the pill starting to work Daddy, stand up and try Oh, great. Here, get up. Officer, your legs can stand up now. Hey youth Are you all right? Is the nurse standing up? It's okay, just a little tired Grandma and brother's legs were soaked in evil spirits over time Not so easy to resolve Except for taking medicine We also need beneficiaries of the Eight Diagrams Array That bad guy named He Liangwen Wait until he is completely devoured Daddy's legs will be completely healed backlash How long will that take? probably One Year One year is fine. It's good if it can be cured. Oops. No. It's a month. It's been a month. It's been a month. Well, it's been a little long. It's a gossip array after all The power is still great It will take a while Oops Fubao You are really our little lucky star. Ouch, grandma loves you to death Hahahaha Stinky old man, didn't you say Take He Jinchuan's disabled contract Did you transfer it all to me? You know how unlucky I've been lately What do I buy and lose? I found out recently Those illegitimate children are not mine The son I have raised for several years for nothing I fuck The gossip array in your office has been discovered Otherwise, at the auction Why did He Jingchuan target you? What! He Jingchuan is not easy to deal with. Now he has a knowledgeable little girl by his side You go back first I'll figure it out. He Liangwen, this idiot, is useless Then let him be a stepping stone to the big boss Mom, why did you bring Fu Bao to the ancestral house? Of course, to worship the ancestors Put Fubao in the family tree It can make him justifiably become the He family I know you're not keen on this I don't expect you to remember Mom is still thoughtful By the way, your big brother will also come today. Is Daddy's eldest brother like He Liangwen? It's different. He's my dad's brother's son He helped the company a lot Since I got sick He's been trying to figure out a way for me He's a wonderful guy. Yeah, he's the same as Fubao. Interested in Taoism Let's go Fubao Go with grandma to meet the ancestors of the He family first ACHOO It's so cold, why is it windy as soon as you come in? Fubao, this is the He family's old house Do you like it? OK Very grand The He family attaches great importance to the ancestral home I also invited a feng shui master to adjust it specially. The orientation is the best. Feng shui perfect abnormal It seems like it was made on purpose for others to see. Yin Qi is still so heavy There must be a problem Don't drag your brother and grandma into it Sneak out for a while to find the reason What happened to Fubao? It's okay grandma Let's go in. OK Snow mountain Jingchuan You are here bro Wenshan This is Jingchuan's adopted daughter It's called Fubao, right? She looks so cute. To Fubao This is the uncle we were telling you about He also knows a little bit about Taoism This set of ancestral houses is the feng shui he found someone to see haha It's all a family should Hello uncle Does the uncle know feng shui? Know a little bit of fur The ancestral house is because I made a Taoist friend Ask him for help and look at him sit come Although this uncle looks very cute But it feels strangely cold when you get close This little speaker looks familiar Don't blame me for being cruel If you want to blame, blame you for being born in the He family He Jiafan can't be selfish The heir to the He family can only be me No, the little lady is gone Is it him? So familiar I heard that Igawa's legs have not improved much I can't do anything else I asked someone to find a pair of stone cranes It symbolizes health and longevity Hope Igawa's leg recovers soon Thank you, big brother. Did you bother? OK But there's a lot of fine manure on this leg. Is it already there? If you don't look carefully, you really don't find it. This should have been frozen in transit, right? But the broken stone statues are at home Not only can't struggle It's counterproductive. Make sick people sicker. Is Dad right, uncle? I don't understand this either. I didn't protect it carefully. Almost did something bad with good intentions So I'll let the servants take it back now It's okay, Wenshan, you are also kind, haha. The broken-legged crane still has a bad breath If this is for nothing on Daddy's legs I'm afraid I'll never get better Make this creature I don't know if this uncle did it unintentionally or on purpose When he's gone, be sure to tell Dad Daddy and the others should be asleep, right? Get to work. Get to work. Found it This is the tree in the center. This tree breaks all the rules Reverse the good meaning What a great event But you are unlucky to meet me The five gods protect my house monsters quick dispersion stand up Hurry up Too hard Fubao Where did this kid go? Fubao, oops. Fubao Fubao Help! Fubaolai Call out! Fubao Mom Fubao It really is you The little bastard I threw away five years ago He actually returned to the He family alive And broke my formation But it looks like you haven't met yet. How can Fubao get hurt at home? Fubao was originally the only grandchild of the He family Should have been cared for It's all my uncle The little lady is fine Everything is fine. Just what What's the problem? Little Miss is a rare panda blood type Also allergic to penicillin and mangoes These are all the same as the missing Miss Dandan Pardon me? Exactly the same. Fubao is also 5 years old, right? Orphans can't really be so coincidental, can they? Do an identification with Jingchuan DNA ASAP Yes Mom You mean Fubao may be Dandan? Yes, otherwise it wouldn't be so coincidental. Alipay sorry I worried my dad It's alright, why did you suddenly fall? I'm exhausted. Jade pendant Jade pendant Where's my jade pendant? Sit down Nan Nan also has a piece He family ancestral jade pendant Is the rich woman really Nan Nan? What kind of jade pendant was given by the master before going down the mountain? It's just given by the master. Am I thinking too much? Maybe it fell into the yard. I asked the maid to find it Fubao wakes up Ouch, I scared grandma to death. What's the matter with you, grandma? He didn't look happy. Is it Fubao that makes you worry? Not really. No, actually. It's not Fubao's problem. It was the divine doctor Taoist priest who just said that he was going to find the little divine doctor I won't be able to see Shizukawa's illness for a short time It's okay mom My leg won't be cured for a while Not this time, next time Yes It's going to get better. There is an old Taoist priest at the door of the old lady He said he knew the little lady, the old Taoist priest Is it the master? Master? Oh my little lucky treasure Let the master take a good look. Nice and a little fat But you look a little haggard Is it excessive consumption of Reiki? How can you not be a master? Master, I really just accidentally overused Oh, I will definitely pay attention to the Dharma next time. Let the master sell well Everything else is fine. Master, take a look This is my new dad This is my new grandma Poor Road Fabiping Really this child's master During this time, please take care of Xiao Fubao. What did the Taoist priest say? It is our blessing to adopt Fubao this child Daoist, are you here to take Fubao away this time? Hey no no no Mr. He, don't be nervous. I'm not here to take Fubao away this time It's just that there are other things going on. Come and see Xiao Fubao I'll be gone soon. Ah master You have to leave so soon? Fubao, you have a new family now I don't have to bother here Not at all. Taoist priest Fubao misses you so much If it is convenient for you Can stay here for a few days Yeah, just in time for you to catch up The evil spirit here has not subsided After all, it is the family of Buddha Baoxuan Stay and give them a hand before leaving Then I'll stay here for a few more days. Excuse me, you two? No trouble. I'll have the maid clean up the guest room right away haha Uh, can I see your son's legs? The priest also sees a doctor A little bit. This Taoist priest is here to find his apprentice The divine doctor Daoist also said that he was looking for an apprentice Could this Taoist priest be the divine doctor Taoist priest? Uh, may I ask the Taoist priest what the problem is? Master, how is my treatment? Fu Bao, you did a great job. Now the evil spirit is dissipating If you want this evil spirit to dissipate completely In addition to continuing to take medicine The rest is just a matter of time Fubao, your current medical skills? It's done. I don't need to add any more Madam, just do as Fubao says Oh, is that so? Then thank you Taoist It seems that this Taoist priest is not proficient in medicine He is also Daoist Hirushin If you are a divine doctor Then Fubao is the little magic doctor What a coincidence! I think too much Daddy grandma I have something to tell the master Let's go first. Hey. Excuse me, two. Mrs. He The paternity test report is out Mrs. He A mother and daughter arrived at the door Claiming to be Mr. He's wife and Miss Nana Pardon me? These years Countless people impersonate An An and want to be the only daughter of the He family Let them in first Let Dr. Lin do a paternity test on the girl Yes Mrs. He This is the child I gave birth to 6 years ago Jinhua Hotel After returning that night I found out I was pregnant. After giving birth to Nana I have no money and no job He left her at the door of He's house This is also my last resort Since I decided to keep her at He's house Then why did you take her away without telling everyone? Nana is my biological daughter Send her to the He family and my dormitory south I just want to take her back But there is only Nana in the He family. Certainly won't agree with me taking her away I can only take her away secretly Why bring her back now? It's Nan Nan He found that all the children his age were taken care of by their fathers I often come home and ask me for my father I blame myself too He clearly knows who his father is But deprived him of the right to have a father's love So it's all about the kids? It's us Countless people have tried to impersonate my daughter over the years What evidence do you have? This is when I took Nana with me She has it on her. I think it should be given by you. This jade pendant is exactly the same as the one on you. It is indeed the piece I gave to Nan Nan I understand the concerns of your aristocratic family I think I want a mother to be more precious No. I just want Nan Nan to know He is also a child with a father If it weren't for Nan Nan No matter what kind of richest person you are I would never step in Nan Nan is my biological daughter I have a right to know where he is going Even if you are his biological mother You can't take him away without permission Oops Kumcheon Keep your voice down You scared the kid. Child, what's your name? Madam, her name is He Zhiya Nickname is still Nan Nan Nan Nan, how old are you? I'm five and a half years old. Mr. He The old lady's paternity test report is out Appraisal result representation Miss He Zhiya is indeed Mr. He's biological daughter But the little lady's test report shows that Not Mr. He's own You really are grandma come Come to daddy Dad and grandma Just come back Just come back haha Finally found you Daddy grandma What's good to eat tonight? Are there any guests at home? Fubao, they are not guests They are Fubao This is the granddaughter of the He family who has been separated for 5 years Call grandma This is Fubao who saved my life before Very compatible with Jingchuan After we adopted him Nana just called him sister. Hello Fubao I'm Nana's mother From now on, Nana and I will live in the He family together You will call me mom like Nana in the future Fubao, just call you Auntie. Don't call anything else. Ah, good. Nan Nan, call my sister Hello, you will be sisters with Fubao in the future You two should get along well Hello, sister Nan Nan We will play together in the future. Daddy grandma OK Grandma, this is the safety lock customized by grandma. I wish our grandmother a safe and smooth life for the rest of her life Be the favorite little princess of our He family Hahahaha I was a little allergic to my grandma's face yesterday. I bought this for my grandmother Children's professional skin care team In the future, his skin care products will be customized by them. What a hassle Nan Nan Thank you grandma and dad Thank you, Grandma. Thanks, Dad. Hahahaha um oops Daddy grandma Sister Nannan What do you call me? Ah Fubao Fubao is here Grandma and Jingchuan prepared some gifts for Nannan Jingchuan is too meticulous I even saw such a small allergy on Nan Nan's face In the end, my father is more careful, right? Fubao Yewan Fu, right? The days of the rich and powerful It's time for our Nannan to come Ah Fubao, did I say something wrong? Hmm? Meet and greet gift? Fubao also prepared for Sister Nan Nan This is my favorite sleeping bell. It can drive away all the bad things in dreams It was a birthday gift from my master Give it now Sister Nan Nan Thank you, sister. Fubao is so sweet But Nan Nan's ears are more sensitive Can't hear the sound of the bell But thanks, Fubao. Okay, Nan Nan has been here for so long It's time for a nap Daddy takes you to take a nap Dad, I want a bedtime story. Okay, what does Nan Nan want to hear? Dad told you Walk around and listen to a bedtime story Did grandma have dinner? Su Bao is so hungry Oh, dear. I'm sorry, Fubao Grandma is hungry We're ready for dinner I'm afraid to disturb your alchemy. I didn't call you. It's okay, you don't have to wait for Fubao every time. Okay, then Fubao will sit down and eat first I'll ask my aunt to add some more dishes to you. Yeah, OK. Wow, that's Fubao's favorite cupcake Is grandma Remember this is specially made to your taste. Haha, eat it. This is Fubao's exclusive small cake. Nan Nan can't rob her sister Give the cake back to my sister No. Nan Nan also wants to eat What Nan Nan has eaten can no longer be given to others You child What did mom tell you? I didn't say I just want to eat Grandma can eat whatever she wants Sister Fubao just came back Curious about everything As a sister, should you give in to your sister? i Yes, Fubao. Grandma can't eat these every day like you You let your sister Can you let the kitchen do it for you next time? It's okay, the schoolbag is not very hungry anymore I'm going out for a walk first I'll be back later. I'm just asking you Stinky father, you are still fierce to me Hey, look familiar This is my favorite sleeping bell. It was a birthday gift from my master Now give it to Sister Nan Nan Nan Nan, shall we sleep? OK The small bell sent by Alipay. Why is it broken? This is my favorite little magic tool If my sister doesn't like it, you can give it back to me. Why break her? I don't know anymore. Why throw it away I'm sorry. Fubao's warm ears Duo can't hear these voices It must have been accidentally broken. Auntie apologizes to you, okay? But this little bell is made of hard material. How could it fall like this? Sorry, sorry. Fubao I didn't know this bell meant so much to you. If I knew I won't let Nan Nan take him I said no. Enough Fubao Nan Nan didn't mean to And you know his ears are uncomfortable Also gave him a little bell It's still aggressive. It made Nan Nan cry Fubao, as your sister Don't let Sister Zhihao care about these little things What about Daoist Master Fu Baoping? Master is surprised Yesterday let me leave him alone What happened last night It's your dad's fault He was so anxious to see grandma crying Our Fubao doesn't have the same knowledge as him. Fubao didn't eat anything last night Let the kitchen make you your favorite pasta this morning Let's go eat with grandma, okay? OK Let's go Oh, eat more. Bobo come Eat some eggs hahaha So much. Can you finish it? Fubao can eat It doesn't matter if you can't finish it. Grandma looks happy Haha, eat it. Come eat slowly Do you like it? I like Nannan, I'm really envious Sister Fubao envy Yes, our little sister This is the first time I have eaten such a sumptuous meal Unlike Fubao You should be used to it No, when Fubao was in the Taoist temple before Eat big white steamed buns for every meal But Fubao can eat more than a dozen Hahaha, is that so? Fubao grew up in a Taoist temple Recently adopted You don't have to feel unbalanced for Danny They are both my daughters Exactly. We will try our best to compensate for what we owe Dandan in recent years. But Fubao is also my precious granddaughter We will all be treated equally Of course! I didn't expect this lucky treasure So important in the hearts of the He family It's all like this To protect him, you have to find an opportunity to start elsewhere Jingchuan, don't just eat and drink some soup Just let Meat Meat do this OK, I see. Nan Nan Eat more Shizukawa It's You Shizukawa We Qingchuan We Jinchuan We were also I also gave birth to a daughter for you How could you do this to me? Sorry. I was drugged before delirium Actually, we've only just met. Is that too fast? But we will be husband and wife in the future. Sorry. I still need a while to get used to it Besides, you also saw My legs are not healed yet. It takes a long time to rest. Come Send Miss Shen out Miss Shen, please I'm so thirsty The method you mentioned doesn't work. He Jingchuan doesn't eat this set at all She doesn't want the woman who delivers it to her door I just want to protect that rich treasure That damn girl has been treating He Jingchuan's legs When he heals, there's nothing we can do Who is he calling? What are you going to do to Daddy? Who's there? Who's there? This Aunt Shen is not simple What are they going to do to their brother? He is my brother's wife In case of misunderstanding I'd better observe first Okay, Dad, don't be in a hurry. It's okay to take a break. Isn't it important for you to do rehabilitation training? I can walk a little longer Mr. He? The company has a few urgent matters that you need to deal with. Deal with brother Hey lady good morning Mr. He, you can stand up now OK Next week? I can get rid of Lei Yi and go to the company completely What's so urgent that I need you to come to my house? Yes, you've been working from home recently. There is an important meeting next week Partners, please be sure to attend This is the contract. Please take a look. Okay, send me the meeting time It's Mr. He, He Liangwen, who has left the company He proposed it himself It's not that He Liangwen went abroad to gamble a while ago Got set up Lost all assets Huge debt He went crazy when he couldn't take the blow It is said that he yelled at everyone on the street He is the man in charge of Jingsheng Group He didn't end up in a mental hospital. I haven't had time yet. He was running around the streets. Hit by a car Paralysis of the lower body I guess I'm going to spend the rest of my life in bed OK, I see. Fubao, this is what you said about complete backlash. Yes, the bad guys have been attacked. Plus Huashang Pills The sister's legs are about to get better He Jingchuan's legs can never be cured That girl has some skills The evil pills she made are very effective I have hedging herbs here You are in the food of He Jingchuan Not only makes Huasha Pills ineffective It's going to kill each other. counterproductive Huashawan I want you all to be angry Mom, I'm hungry. Nana come NANA Give this to dad Remember to see him finish drinking. Okay. Nan Nan's favorite soup Dad drinks too Good dad drink Thank you Nan Nan Grandma can't drink It's alright, Grandma! Don't cry! What happened to Alipay? This soup is not to be drunk and poisonous elder sister Why did you knock over grandma's knife? Grandma has no family Why is Nan Nan crying? Sister says the soup is poisonous But Nan Nan didn't Nan Nan doesn't cry The soup is not poisonous Nan Nan will not poison her father But this soup This is Nan Nan's favorite soup Specially asked me to cook it to share with you How could it be poisonous? I can prove it. This is the letter Fubao, I know Nannan just came back. You may not be able to accept it for a while But anyway Nannan also cares about her Dad? How could you slander her, poison her and knock her over? Wow Nannan told me yesterday She now has a sister So happy Want me to put something he likes Share it with the big Home but you are what treasure So what's going on? This soup has ginseng angelica Chuanwu in it. For ordinary people Syphilis also has a nourishing effect But daddy, you can't drink it. Why is that? The evil pill I gave Daddy has verruca in it Pinellia and Bletilla striata These medicinal materials are compatible with the medicinal materials in the soup After drinking it, not only will it lose its effectiveness It will also make Daddy's chest tight and short of breath Go into a state of brief shock But what's in the Huaxia Bowl? We have no idea. Even if there is something mutually exclusive in the soup How would Nan Nan and I know? Nan Nan just wants to put what she likes Share with Dad What's wrong with that? Okay, spectroscopy. I know you did it for my own good But Nan Nan is still young He doesn't know anything. You just burst in Scared my sister But I Fubao Grandma Fubao and Aunt Shen are also kind-hearted Go and play upstairs with grandma Ahhhhh Good disciple, I'm back. Know what's going on Who bullied us Fubao? No one bullies master Why do I feel that grandma and Aunt Shen are weird? But I can't feel the murderous aura in them How strange. The malice in the hearts of the silly apprentice But it's not as easy for you to find out as murderous intent OK Master is saying something I don't understand again Since the mother and daughter came back I noticed that you've been feeling down Fubao, think about it He Zhiya is He Jingchuan's biological daughter after all After you came Nature will take away part of his love And the identity of his biological daughter They don't like you. It's human nature. He Fubao didn't do anything? Even if you do nothing As long as you stay at He's house Is a hindrance Oops if you're not happy here Master, I'll take you away right away Anyway, He Jingchuan's legs are almost healed now. There was no killing intent. Need to spend more I still want to stay here Wait until all Daddy's legs are healed That's up to you. What about parents, grandma and sister? They went to the mall Go get something for Nan Nan Fubo You ate a little tonight Are you in a bad mood? Yes Is a bit Sorry, Alipay. Nan Nan just came back these two days. It's dad who ignores your feelings It's dad's fault Alipay Nan Nan has made mistakes in the past two days I apologize to you on his behalf. Nan Nan and his mother I have suffered a lot outside these years I always feel indebted I want to make up for it as much as possible I see. Good morning! So happy? Well, because I slept so well yesterday, haha. Fubaolai Sit down with grandma daddy Where did you get this? This one. This is Dandan. They passed by the Taoist temple yesterday. The eight-character charm bracelet you gave me to wear. Ladders cannot be brought There's a very strong evil spirit on it It will affect your legs. Neither this nor that Dad is not your dad alone Fubao This eight-character charm bracelet. It was worn by grandma who saw grandma with her own eyes There shouldn't be any problem. Did you read it wrong? Fubao I don't know why you dislike Nan Nan so much. You don't think it's good what we send to Igawa. Yesterday was chicken soup Today is the bracelet again. If I had known that Nan Nan was so unpopular I won't bring her back I don't have it. Nan Nan is different from you. Nan Nan is just an ordinary little girl She couldn't have hurt me on purpose Fubao grew up in a Taoist temple He may be more sensitive to these things Don't worry about it. That's a bracelet. This bracelet is made by Dandan himself. I will wear it well. Okay, okay. Eat like this Fubao, let's eat What's wrong, grandma? Sister, I'm not your sister My mom says I don't have a sister This is my home. Why are you Stay at our house and refuse to leave I hate you. Don't you have a dad? I insist on occupying my father and grandmother speak My jade pendant Why is my jade pendant on you? This is not your jade pendant. This is my jade pendant Why are you so shameless? Everyone else wants everything. Uh-huh. Is grandma okay? Grandma Xiaobao What's the matter, sister? Sister chasing me Grandma, it hurts! I didn't, she stole my jade pendant. The jade pendant was mine My sister has already robbed it. Dad and grandma Lian Yupei robbed me Even if Nan Nan did something You wouldn't have pushed her downstairs, would you? Ye Wenfu, how dare you hurt your sister? You have disappointed me so much. master Why are you so depressed? I wanna go back. You have it all figured out OK They don't believe me anymore Hey Silly boy Then let's go back Anyway, the golden body of the patriarch has been half sculpted Even if we don't hang upside down The master can also take you to set up a stall on the street By being a Japanese guest, I came to Shisan Palace OK Come on. Come on. Since Jingchuan found out that there is no problem with grandma I'm going to see Fubao She should have been scared too Fortunately, Nan Nan is fine. What does Fubao say? It's too much. You tell his boyfriend to sleep He looks a little tired I still have some things to deal with Nandan did fall from the air by himself I didn't believe in Fubao for the first time He must be very sad. Jinchuan Jinchuan Fubao, they're gone What! Take a look This is the letter left behind Take a look Daddy grandma When you read this letter I have left Fubao likes Daddy and Grandma very much The first in the world likes it This is the first time Fubao has eaten a full meal First Time Daddy and Grandma The schoolbag is very happy. When my sister came The schoolbag is also happy. But later It seems that everyone is because of Fubao Not happy anymore Fubao doesn't like this So I decided to leave for a while Brother and grandma Remember to take your medicine on time Fubao will come back to see you It's all my fault Since Nan Nan came back My center of gravity is tilted towards Nan Nan Ignore Fubao's emotions Suspect him together It's also my fault that I obviously brought Fubao back But not even the basic bowl of water Grandma and Fubao have been wronged Fubao is born short of money You will definitely suffer outside Yes, no. I'm going to bring him back. Apologize to him well. Ok, I'll go with you. Jinchuan Jinchuan Jinchuan Jinchuan Jinchuan Jinchuan How have you been? Come on, Jinchuan Jingchuan, you are awake Nan Nan's father will wake up soon. Dad? Dad? What about Alipay? Someone has been sent to find it. It should be right in the city center. How are you feeling? I can't seem to move my legs. The doctor said it was caused by your impatience Maybe I'll be fine tomorrow. This may be the price I pay for not trusting Fu Bao I must find him myself Say sorry to him Ok, we'll definitely find it. The priority is your legs I tried to contact the previous divine doctor and Taoist priest But there has been no news Ma Jingchuan I prayed for Nan Nan before I went to the Taoist temple to volunteer for a period of time Have a little friendship with the divine doctor Really? Qingqing, can you contact Mom? Don't worry. I will definitely find a divine doctor and Taoist priest to treat Jinchuan Ok ok Thanks We are all family Talk about trouble Then I'll take Nan Nan back first. Go upstairs and play Finally drove that dead girl away Little girl movie You want to get in my way? Who? Why are you here? Does Mrs. He look happy? Didn't we agree not to meet during this time? What if their mother and son find out? Don't panic, I am The little Taoist priest who came to help you Didn't you drive away? You bring this down to He Jingchuan's range every day. In less than a week He Jingchuan is finished You are too obvious If found Let's take advantage of that little Taoist priest before he finds out We have to do something about it. And he is He Jingchuan's daughter Once discovered I'm not the first heir 2 You really don't understand Do you want our girls Do you call other men dad for the rest of your life? I see. Mom, is there any news from Fubao? Not yet. Xiao Fubao may have been hurt by us. No clue at all And you've been in a coma for longer and longer lately Mom is still a little worried about you It's okay, Mom, didn't the doctor say anything? Maybe Just too tired Qingchuan has eaten The song just sent by my aunt and brother Do it yourself How is the contact with the divine doctor and Taoist priest? Mom, don't worry. Although the divine doctor is very busy But I have promised to come to see Jingchuan next week If He Jingchuan lives next week Just get in touch. Just get in touch. Go ahead. Xiao Fubao You don't want to be found out about our whereabouts But you're setting up a stall near your dad's company Do you want to be found or not? Fubao doesn't want to be found But Fubao has a little brother Okay, okay. I knew you couldn't let it go Oh, right. It's been two days. Why haven't you seen He Jingchuan's whereabouts yet? Doesn't this president have to go to work? You shouldn't. Before, my brother's leg was injured and he came to the company every day. Right. I'd better sleep Did you hear? He Jingchuan, the president of Jinsheng Group It seems to be dying Heard about it And it is said that the will is made This Jinsheng Group and He Family Maybe it's the bereaved Why wasn't everything fine when I left? Excuse me. You just said that He Jingchuan is dying Is that true? It's all over the place. I heard that the He family is about to change the heir You follow what you say everywhere Go go go go Can't figure it out How can you not calculate Fu Bao, the more urgent you are The easier it is to make mistakes Calm down and do the math slowly. Two points and one empty is nothingness This is a dead monster How can this melon be a dead melon? No way. I'm going to save dad Ouch. Jiang Fubao, you are crazy This dead melon is a foregone conclusion You forcibly intervene That is to change your life against the sky The way of heaven cannot be violated Violating the law of heaven And that's damnation. Have you forgotten what happened to your little uncle? It's not my life I don't need parents You're pulling me to save my father, oops Xiangfubao Daddy Daddy How can there be such a heavy evil spirit in the past few years? adult There is a strong Fu Bao Daddy, I don't love you I don't care. What life and death Eat my Twilight Egg You have to come alive. You are dreaming Why did I hear Fubao calling? I Fubao Doctor Doctor Isn't the rich woman He Jingchuan dying? It must be this haunted dead girl You can't just fall short. How is he? Bloodthirsty as Ice Need to take it right away What are you doing here? He Jingchuan woke up And you know what? What! Now it is not only He Jingchuan who is awake Yevanf is also back If He Jia knew Ye Wanfu is his biological daughter And did you ask for the paternity test? What do you think He Jia will do with you, a traitor? You threatened me to do it Do you think the He family will let you go if you say that? What do you want me to do? Kill Ye Wan Mansion To avoid future problems Oh, I see. Little Miss Don't blame me for being the Artifact Bureau They made me do it You're going to die to find them Don't look for i Don't Find Me congratulate Mr. He Dr. Li, the He family treats you well Why are you hurting me? It wasn't me, they forced me Mr. He spared me, is it him? Ah! He was the one who made me kill the little lady Mr. He, forgive me Mr. He, please forgive me, Mr. He Mr. He When did you know? When you were sneaking around and ready to take Lan Lan away You want to take my daughter away again? Who the hell made you do this? Let me tell you. You said that you know the methods of the He family That's him! He also let me tune Changed the paternity test of Miss Fubao and He Zhiya I don't want to do this. Mr. He, please forgive me Mr. He, forgive me What! Give Fubao's paternity test You mean Fubao is my biological daughter? Yes, yes. Mr. He, forgive me What's going on? I confirmed it myself The woman that night was you Fubao is my biological daughter Then you are Fubao's biological mother The tiger head is depressed and unaware How could you bear it? He's not my mother at all It wasn't me who slept with you that night What! I was with you that night It's my best friend Ye Tianna Obviously I met first Why sleep with you He was the one who was pregnant with the He family's child Why not me That fool tells me everything Including yours Too bad he didn't live well She got very sick after giving birth. Who would have thought This stupid woman was smart once before she died You went behind my back? Secretly delivered the child to your door you You are disgusting I'm disgusting. The first time I saw Ye Wanfu I knew she was that fool's daughter What about you? You deserve it. Because of jealousy Because of jealousy You're going to kill our family So what? I'm trying so hard to climb up Got nothing and He, Ye Tinglan, got everything without doing anything I am jealous So I'm going to replace him as the mistress of the He family Really? What do you mean? Poison evil spirit You did it all by yourself. So what if I was? You an outsider know me so well The He family, even Dr. Lin, was bribed by you You really think I'm stupid. Who is the person behind you? Don't say it, right? Your parents in the countryside probably don't know about you And your brother who went to college. His teachers and classmates If you knew he had a sister like you Guess what happened to him? These things have nothing to do with them Don't hurt Wu Guo I don't have time to waste with you Or you can be honest with me I never know you Or let the whole sea city target your family I, He Jingchuan, do what he says He Family Mom and Dad And I said, &quot;Okay. And I said, &quot;Okay. What is self big brother Why is that? Of course, for the glory and wealth all-out Can't imagine The good big brother in your heart has long hated you He thinks you have him The position of the heir to the He family I dream of killing you He found you He was the same person who drugged the hotel that night He found the man as soon as he heard it I was in debt in those years He said as long as I help him He paid my debt It can also make me the mistress of the He family I dream of being superior So I said yes. I'll say anything. Please! Please let my family go Take him down and take care of him And catch Hou Longshan I have to see Mrs. in one day Fubao You are Nan Nan Dad also hurt you because of these outsiders It's a bastard This woman should never have been bad guy Still a step too late This little bastard is running too fast Taoist priest, hurry up Look at Fubao Fubao hasn't woken up yet You hurry up and save him Fu Bao is driven out Nian Die Gua to save you He forcibly changed his life This is God's punishment. Fortunately, heaven and earth are kind Finally, he was saved. I just found out that my parents are my daughters We haven't met yet I haven't apologized to him yet. Taoist priest, you are his master You must save him I see Maybe this is a chance It's not impossible. It's just that Fubao has to get through this disaster There's a price to pay. At what cost? Even my life will do I need this jade pendant on you. And serve the blood of my loved ones And the sunshine of loved ones What do you mean? What do you need me to do? Exactly It is to use Fubao's closest relatives to live for 20 years In exchange for his life My wife can I know it all Fubao is my biological daughter Fortunately, He Wenshan has been arrested This Tianshan Almost separated me from my son, granddaughter, yin and yang Taoist priest Take my life My old bones are not lucky to live I have no meaning in living I can give the rest of my life to the blessing Mom All because of me Only then did Fu Bao suffer these unwarranted disasters But I have my face to protect him from these disasters Body Serum Copy the body Including the saints of heaven and earth in a hurry What's going on here? This is fine. Why hasn't Fu Bao woken up yet? Not so fast. This is the price of replacement Heaven is not so easy to destroy Your father and daughter have been fortunate among the misfortunes When will he wake up? That's all I can do. It depends on the self-awareness of the blessing newspaper. Fubao Fubao, my dear granddaughter. You're awake Grandma daddy You're okay? Fubao Sorry for this paragraph Time is Me Ignore you and misunderstand you And hurt you Not only did you not blame me You paid so much I'm an asshole I should be the one lying here Sister, it's okay. I did it myself. What about grandma and the others? He is not Nan Nan You are Dad's Nan Nan The jade pendant is not He Ziya's. He Wenshan stole it What that creepy uncle Yes! He Liangwen and Daoist Yin were all instigated by him Now in a mental hospital Dog bites dog is karma Wait daddy You mean I'm your biological daughter? Then Aunt Shen and the others? They were also sent by He Wenshan to plot against me He Zhiya is He Wenshan's daughter Blame me for being blind Mistake a dream for a pearl Almost killed my own daughter Hey, it's alright. Daddy, am I still here? I can find my father and grandmother as soon as I go down the mountain This is also our chance Fubao was right This is a family opportunity It's going around in circles. The person you are looking for is actually by your side Hahaha Fortunately, the family is reunited, hahaha. How about daddy I feel like I can actually run two laps. Oh, that's great. Ha ha. Although the divine doctor Taoist priest and the little divine doctor were not found But it's enough to have Fubao in our family, hahaha. Who is the divine doctor and Taoist priest you mentioned just now? He is the presiding priest of Lingyun Taoist Temple It is said that there is a very powerful little doctor apprentice Lingyun Taoist temple Isn't that our Taoist temple? Presiding Taoist Isn't that you, master? What did you say that Fubao is from Liming Taoist Temple? Daoist, someone asked me to go down the mountain to see a doctor and treat my legs before. Wait a minute. See if this is yours. Oh, it's me. Hahaha, then you are a divine doctor and Taoist priest Fubao You are a miracle doctor teacher Want such two false names Haha, so we've been looking for it. The person is Fubao haha It's really not that a family doesn't enter a house Haha Fubao You are really our little lucky star, haha. Cough cough Baby, don't blame the teacher for sweeping your tricks. May I remind you Because you went against the sky and were devoured Our assistant master is out of energy now Ah, I have to start all over again But Your dad replaced your life for you You can redeem it by accumulating merits Master didn't lie to me The poor never lie Let's go, daddy, go find evil Hahaha Wait father