Hi, everyone. Welcome to Dampierre. We are in the region of It's a pretty cold region in the winter and pretty warm in the Dampierre, with a castle called with the same name. It was built on two different periods, especially the that is in the middle over there, probably from the 15 or and drawn and designed by Mansart. Francois Mansart was a very, very famous French architect the 17th century, which is literally like the golden age of this house was built in the same time. We have here a century, and it was probably gilded by then. Not anymore. We will see with the restoration and and the We'll see. And this house was built by a family called Dampierre. Like, the village. It is a very vast and important family politics and the economy of the centuries while we had like you're going to like it. We're going to start with the entrance of the chatelet with a very like, gothic sculpture see it, with the wings. And we're going to get inside the idea how we say this. In French. we say &quot;Escalier en Actually, it's pretty complicated to imagine to put some electricity in, it is a big dilemma because we don't really without injuring it. Then we have to find a solution that these walls because there is no, uh, double walls is Then if you have ideas, I'm happy to hear. Here we arrive in the main room, which is actually the most You can see here The blazon, which is the &quot;pot a feu&quot; with fires, is a pot And this is typically the insign/emblem of the family. And you can find it actually on the construction itself, on the facade, on the roof. We will have a look after. Then kitchen over there and a big fireplace that hopefully is But it's going to be mainly the same aspect once it's Meanwhile, in the castle, because the castle was literally lost all his fortune and had to sell every single piece of the the fireplaces, everything was sold. Then they had the with the fifties taste, which is not really mine. And you disappointing when here is actually preserved because this second floor, which is going to be the room, the the the with a very nice fireplace that is an antique and original. this part was decorated in the carpet before and they sold adopted. That's why we can see that there is some problems structure. The question also is for the floor. Originally, it wasn't this wooden floor. It was the little can find on the 17th century. We can recognize them because small size tiles is the typical 17th century. Then it was floor like this one, but with the architect. We have this the wood frame will support all this tiles and all the to go for a facility and on the easy way and we're going to it, I like to keep the antique look. Then I only provide an recycling of old materials also. But I'm not going to to to use, like new material or I like this. You're here despite the mosquitoes. You can see the house, the main house designed by Mozart windows. I don't know if you noticed, but it's green. And made with little bubbles inside and the color was tainted. And it gives a very specific look to this facade. And yeah, here because you see on the central the the the window in also on the top of the roof close to the the chimneys, you And let's go see the. The frame. The skeleton of the building. This one is very nice. But the very interesting part is actually that here you can part was probably outside before and not inside this here. It was probably like a flat roof or not roof at all the middle. And this was probably build it later, but we guess. And this is a very interesting part, and this is we're going to organize like two little rooms in the in the holes, you see was actually, uh, made to support the the And the birds were actually living here and they were used To to communicate with other other people you wanted to. the the holes in the walls or if he's going to be in. This part of the House will be restored in a very classic building is listed. Then we have a very strict list of in the main house that because everything was destroyed and free. Then it's going to be like very interesting to Let's go see. And in the region, which is a very like um wheat and all it's super flat area with no wood and and little woods all around that keeps it like a very preserved And it's very nice to be here, especially because there is charming. And there is also a pretty ugly construction, I 20th century, there is a construction because they wanted the, with the, the water, the water of the of the river. You cannot use that if you don't have the right and the complicated to get except if before French Revolution, that it was like a moulin, which is like the big water. If it was one before this moment, then you have the forever. And actually we find in this map which called the designed, the French, the France, the territory with all kind of construction before then. We have I think we are get the right to actually use this possible energy over a very good idea to have this. This is part of the good news, but it's part of the game and you have to embrace But that was a good news because if installing like the something similar could bring a bit of electricity is going the same time. And the facade is made of this stone. The local stone called K is the white stone that you're school. And it's a very, like, delicate stone, as you see infiltration of water. It can just like break. Then it's This is the way we enter the kitchen with these little was probably from from the sixties. Nothing antique. But we kitchen itself is from before. It's from the medieval arched. And that was preserved and kept as it was and century. And we're going to redo a kitchen in here because with wax, with wax fruits and and vegetables to pretend it No, I want like, a real kitchen with a real piano over thing. And I don't want just like, a decor. I literally the middle and organise dinners and living here. I think houses that became museum. But this is not a museum. This like all the comforts that the house needs to have in in and also the use of everything here, like the rooms and the little studio organized in one part of the building. No, I this place to be like you used to be when it was built. And family and to regroup the family and to see the friends and recreate that and not just come here and visit what people people used to live. And I think this is much more Arriving now in the main entrance of the castle on the big gate through the chalet, and you arrive here. Someone is opening the door like Downton Abbey and is going is here and you open the door and you just get in this entrance. And you can see everything is made of of stone. thirties and the floor is definitely not the original one. to recreate and rebuild the way it was. I have some pictures actually. Then we have a precise idea to the monumental staircase. That is one of the very interesting parts of a mosaic and built it some stairs that was looking like they are flying, that much flying. They had to put some construction in the because they did some change in because they put some through the walls and all then probably everything moved a building was kind of jeopardized and they had to put some But this is going to be restored, too, because this is one Then this is going to be completely restored, especially And this is not the original aspect. The original aspect is going to find it back behind, and if not, we're going to nice for living because as you see, it's a really like a Then each room has four, four windows and big windows. Then you can have you can see you have a lot of lights super big. It's, uh, 250 square meters, um, on the floor And each room has a use, which is very important because three cellar where you never go and you need to find like music. And here there is only one salon and one one set and still the table, but we're going to I have the fireplace How to organize an and decorate that. But this is a very interesting part because this is not super interesting because there is some parts you just course I have like a very like old fashioned style in terms recreate what was here in the taste of what was here in the to actually have this opportunity with one big house to And I think this is the what, seduce me so much. And here salon anymore. But that was a very famous salon because it was listed. And we can find it in an embassy on Plaza de and the wooden floor is not the original one. I mean, you going to grow and we're going to clean that and try to with the wood paneling, but maybe something a bit more I'm going to show you the first floor. It's and the floor rooms, actually, like big rooms and the second floor. That is because the roof is a mosaic roof. And mansard roof is very famous because a normal roof is roof starts here and you have like all the high ceiling in ceiling. Then you have the benefit of having like a second Come with me. Let's see that. And here we have like a very the corridor is like turning and spinning everywhere. Then corridor on this side of the facade, with all the windows these windows with a long corridor. And we're going to have said, all the the wooden floor and everything and all the And you can see that all the construction materials that we here probably before. You see, there is no not even like, one room that kept the only room that kept the wooden floor Versailles, because this is the paneling we find in six windows, two of them are actually closed right now, but to be, the bedroom, my bedroom. And we have six beautiful view on the garden, then this is going to be probably it's During the Second World War. Um, the, the, the Germans were living here for a couple of And the castle, I mean, the wooden flooring, all the But there were kind of it was rebuilt with not really actually eat the fireplace, use it as a to, to further the And but they were living here for a couple of years during stairs is missing because we have like a beautiful like is listed. But to go to the second floor where we have the ceilings, we have to go through this little, uh, uh, That is super cute, I have to say, but it's not really rebuild, probably in one of the room. A nice staircase to And we arrive here with a much more logical configuration the side like this one. As you see, we are like just under the roof and is almost organized as a room like the bedrooms with probably Then we will have to see how we organize it. I was here without any window, and the room is with two windows You get in one room here with one window and you have a configuration is a bit more classical, like in hotels, have any window. And but, I mean, it can be both, actually. One Yes. One. No, I have enough rooms to do a bit of two, three. Third floor is just the attic. Lack is a shuttle, but a different one because this one is And this is a part of the attic that has been covered. All all of this because during the renovation is going to be of the building. And but already, when you see that, it's pieces are actually like curved. They didn't need to do actually they did. It is a pretty precise and refined And in the end of the building actually is not covered area directly the attic itself. And I was so seduced also because in the attic is actually everything. And because I'm very tall, I'm almost two without hurting my head, which is a luxury, honestly. And was the the black tile that is on the on the roof is And with time, they get not waterproof anymore and it gets And we need to change all of that. And it's actually pin need to remove all of the all of them to actually redo one. stick it with some glue. And it's not the same way, but. third plan of restoration. First one is the two pavilion in the entrance for this Second step is a shuttle for next year. And third step will be the house, the main house and fourth Probably that is going to be a it's literally like a Thank you for following me in this little visit. And I was you have a question and one more information about it. To open following actually the restoration situation. But I will be super happy to show you around. And same because I'm not born in this environment and this is brand always happy to to share and to discuss the matter. I'm not