Who said pawn deals are only for the Pawn Stars were left in shock when they you heard it right--these are moments when famous Dennis Quaid actor Dennis Quaid as President Ronald Reagan. president and presumes that the movie will be this movie already, though it has not even had a Rick asks Robert if the autograph on the that he is certain that it is a true autograph. the seller says he wants $350. Rick then says can go ahead with the negotiation, so he Dennis Quaid asks where he got the poster a story that Quaid confirms, adding that Mark Joseph. Quaid says he had a lot of respect was such an enigmatic person who nevertheless won again to clarify whether it's his signature on is indeed his work. Rick says he will give than that after it was personally authenticated Bob Dylan James brings in Bob Dylan's album, Self-Portrait, had minor wear and tear over the years since its because it was an album filled with different he admits that the album is in great shape and to James, Bob Dylan was in town performing to have been known by Rick the entire time. for the album, Rick offers $50 and he explains condition. James takes the $50 and Rick comes up decides that the best way to raise the value of out to get it signed by Bob Dylan himself. outside of a hotel where he is performing. Bob he asks if Chumlee wants a specific dedication, which the musician does. When Chumlee returns with and asks if this is a joke. Rick clarifies that signed to "Chumlee." Rick tells Chumlee to keep the pawn shop, Richard Harrison, sits in his shakes his head at Chumlee's foolishness. Rick comes across a customer who looks a great Carrell denies that it is him. Only when Rick Steve Carrell, since he imagined that the Carrell indignantly confirm that he is the actor, Vegas is never knowing who you could bump into. World War 2 Diver's Knife he was admiring through him the knife is worth $2500. As Rick hands him like a Billy Club and begins to open and play Rick's odd negotiation with Carrell begins. which is $1500 more than the asking price. Seeing $5,000. Carrell counters this with an offer of says he is a collector himself and loves looking spend hours wandering around the next day. Japanese sword expert, Mike Yamasaki, presented which is dated to have come from the early gaining a new case, authentic Japanese wood, and sword will not be for sale, instead he will put Rick did not take into consideration that Chumlee sports and rare weapons. The Samurai sword expert, perfect condition, it would be worth $35,000 to over 2 years for the sword to be refurbished. looking to add to his weapon room collection. having a samurai sword that could be traced back ago. Corey, watching all this play out, asks Chumlee responds the sword that Rick said not to as a sword from the 1600's is interesting enough, purchase. Chumlee shocks White when he says the eyes it's worth $40,000. Dana White's rebuttal is sword Chumlee has shown him previously, the with 8 different swords laying on it. Chumlee adds being purchased as well. Chumlee takes the deal. to get his sword back only for White to buy it, sword he just bought, when White agrees he lays sword at $10,000 because it belonged to a lord already bought all the other swords in the place, down to $8,000. Rick thinks on it and offers to Stan Lee 1977 Spiderman comic strip by John Ramita, inspects the Marvel comic strip and observes bathtub. Chumlee goes on to explain how Marvel is perhaps his second character created. Chumlee, he wants to verify the authenticity of this a meet and greet and the new Avengers exhibit. artwork from Mr. Ramita, he had him sign it. When Vince affirms that he has been the only owner of is estimated to be around $8,000-$10,000. camera and explaining that he is heading Vegas Strip to meet Stan Lee and authenticate While Chumlee and Vince wait in line to meet Stan Vince highlights the best parts of the comic, dialogue written by Stan Lee himself. Chumlee asking instead for $8,000. As they continue Lee himself authenticates the comic strip. experience for Chumlee and Vince. Stan Lee smiling and complimenting his own work. Chumlee Stan Lee would incorporate into his work. Everyone Marvel's greatest heroes. Stan Lee pulls out a the comic strip. He makes positive sounds and Vince shake his hand and give their thanks as chance to speak with him. Stan Lee says it was his frame the comic strip! Chumlee and Vince shake Mick Foley WWE Dude Love t-shirt and a Mankind mask signed by and $200 for the signed mask. Rick looks confused knowing Chumlee for many years at this point, famous wrestler friends, so Rick calls him over. Love are the same person, pro-wrestler, Mick Foley as being "the most badass hardcore wrestler this description. Rick immediately laughs at the people up and being named Dude Love. Chumlee says at every aspect of his personality. He gives a the alias, Cactus Jack in 1986 as a pro wrestler. he became involved with the WWE and rebranded saying that Mick Foley once jumped off a 15-foot Chumlee moves on to a method of verifying the just call in his famous friend, Mick Foley, to is immediately starstruck and everyone listens about the items. The mask he says, was sold as wear his own mask out to trick or treat and no and confirms that it is his signature, though he authenticates the t-shirt as being original, even the years. He says the shirt was from a limited authenticity. Rick and Chum offer $200 for offer and shakes his head asking for a better today justified his keeping of this memorabilia Phil Collen with a guitar that had been painted and played rock band, Def Leppard, and she asks for $10,000. confirmed the guitar's worth as it is signed by art piece by the musician. Rick then wants to who knows everything about this collectible. who the expert Rick invited is, her jaw drops Collen immediately recognizes the guitar and and says that he remembers this guitar being his painting techniques. The camera zooms in to label and track the guitar. This verifies that the painting on these expensive Jackson guitars. so he starts playing in the middle of the beautifully and is able to played as well as asks for $10,000 and Rick offers her $8,000, when make a little money to justify buying it from her. Katie Couric when he recognizes a famous face. She comes in to Corey believes he is speaking to Katie Holmes, he guesses she is Kate Winslet, and when Rick who correctly identifies her as Katie Couric. the camera cuts to a confessional where Katie says Rick explains the origin and importance of the as one of America's most famous and influential in American history. Rick says Mark Twain used to When Katie Couric asks for a price, Rick says saying it is a bit more than she was planning to originally for $8,500. Katie then offers $12,000 reluctance. Katie is surprised by his acceptance admiration for her; however, he cannot contain his Subscribe to the channel if Who was your favorite celebrity to make an would buy any of the items they were interested