February 2nd, 1959 - It's a bitterly cold wilderness. Nine hikers make camp in a Ural Mountains or the Dead Mountain. They are 7 days into a strenuous 16 day expedition their direction in bad weather conditions. However, they are all experienced trekkers live to see another dawn. Sometime during the night, the hikers leave frigid dark, some of them half dressed and What happened to the 9 hikers on that freezing The bizarre and confusing circumstances of caused much speculation.The Dyatlov Pass incident, of the most enduring and popular mysteries In late January 1959, 10 students and alumni and an older ski instructor began a difficult mile trek to reach the North Ural mountain With diaries and cameras found at the campsite, journey up until the day before their deaths. The leader of the hiking group was 23 year Dyatlov was extremely passionate about the The snowy, windswept mountain pass where the his last name in his honor. Dyatlov's close friend 23 year old Yuri his hiking trips. Krivonischenko, the joker of the group had from UPI in 1957. He was 5 days short of his 24th birthday when There were two more Yuris among the trekkers, Yuri Yudin was an economics student with an Yuri Doroshenko was a radio engineering student fearless. Once during a camping trip, he had confronted Zinaida Kolmogorova, nicknamed Zina was 22 She was an experienced hiker who had once trek. At 20, Lyuda Dubinina was the youngest member She was an Engineering and Economics Major. She loved photography and often took pictures Two years before the fateful Dyatlov trip, by a hunter during a hike through the Eastern With great fortitude she endured a long painful Then there was 24 year old Alexander Kolevatov, He was especially interested in nuclear physics. Rustem Slobodin, aged 23 had graduated in He was a quiet man who enjoyed long distance Nikolai Thibeaux-Brignolles was 23 and had His degree was in civil engineering. Thibeaux-Brignolles was popular and had been The final member of the expedition was much World War II vet Semyon Zolotaryov was 38 He joined the trip as a part of certifying and mountain hiking. In fact, each member of the group were adept be receiving grade III, the highest level the trip. On January 23rd, the group departed by train Yekaterinburg is 1,036 miles (1,667 km) east The hikers travelled by rail about 200 miles 25th of January. The next morning they travelled by bus to they prepared to begin their trek. Dyatlov went to the local post office to send of the route. He had also agreed to send a second telegram their journey. After checking in with the Sverdlovsk Political to his father--the last message he would ever From Vizhay, the hikers traveled by truck On January 27, 1959 the physical part of the The hikers skied along the Lovza river, hiring of their provisions. They travelled to an abandoned mine, the last night there. Yudin, who hadn't been feeling well due for the university. On January 28, an upset Yudin, whose condition the rest of the hiking trip. This decision would save his life. In fact Yudin lived to age 75, dying April The remaining 9 hikers continued towards their They travelled along the river until January From diary notes, we know they estimated their At night the temperature would drop to -11 On January 31, the hikers left the river. In a wooded valley, to lighten their load, would be used for the return trip. Then they hiked about 1.25 miles (2 km) to Because of a bad snowstorm and poor visibility, deviating west. Realizing their mistake, on February 2nd they Kholat Syakhl for the night. It was here that the 9 met their deaths. On February 12th when Dyatlov didn't send The hikers had planned a difficult route and approximate. However by February 20, worried relatives a rescue. A volunteer search party made up of students find the hikers. They were soon joined by the army and militsiya, On February 26, 14 days after the hikers should abandoned and damaged hikers' tent. Puzzlingly, it looked as if someone had cut In fact, the searchers found the whole campsite Many of the hikers' belongings, including Eight or nine sets of footprints from bare were still visible in the snow. Searchers followed the footprints north-east the edge of a nearby woods. At the forest's edge, under a cedar, the searchers Huddled nearby were the frozen bodies of Krivonischenko in their underwear. Broken tree branches as high as about 16 feet of the hikers had climbed up to get a bird's Between the forest and the campsite, 3 more Slobodin. They were found separately with poses suggesting camp when they perished. An inquest was immediately opened after the that all five had died of hypothermia. Slobodin had a minor skull fracture, but it It wasn't until over 2 months later on May buried under 9 feet of snow in a ravine further The 4 were better dressed for the weather been harvested from those who died first. Dubinina was wearing Krivonishenko's burned, wrapped in a torn jacket. The state of their bodies made the authorities during the incident. Curiously 3 of the 4 hikers had suffered severe Dubinina and Zolotaryov were found to have had substantial damage to his skull. Oddly, while the hikers had extensive trauma were no corresponding external injuries. The injuries to the bodies were caused by during a car crash. Also Dubinina had facial damage, she was found her lips. Russian authorities quickly wrapped up the was an unknown compelling force which the Dubinina's missing body parts were explained that she was found in a stream that ran under Public access to the Dyatlov pass where the results of the investigation were classified The authorities suppressing information regarding intended. Over the years, odd details and rumors surrounding The skin of the deceased was said to be a were prematurely aged. Some speculate the corpses were unnaturally livor mortis markings discovered during autopsy, Some of the hikers' clothing contained traces Other clothing was a strange light shade of for disinfection. The tent and camp were set up in an amateurish Soviet authorities removed items from the disappeared and was not entered in record. Circumventing the usual protocol, high ranking to watch some of the autopsies take place. Strange orange orbs or fireballs were seen hikers' deaths. Some even claim that Zolotaryov was a secret mission. As some of the searchers and lower level officials upon their memories, discussing how evidence the official statements they were instructed There have been documentaries, books and even Pass incident. There are a number of websites dedicated to dissected maps, photographs, diaries written could find. Over 75 theories have sprung up as what actually The theories are wide ranging. They run the gauntlet from the supernatural The hikers were killed by aliens or a yeti. There was an animal attack, such as a wolverine. The hikers were killed by the Mansi people, The Ural mountains are sacred to the Mansi important place. Actually, the remains of a Mansi chum or nomadic campsite. The authorities considered foul play by the to the hikers were determined not to be caused Another theory is that the hikers stumbled secret weapon program and there was a military Radiological weapons testing could account of warmth which led the hikers to stripping The odd orange glowing spheres in the night were camping approximately 31 miles south services. Could these lights have been rockets or some Probably the most commonly held theory is the middle of the night that partially buried Slab avalanches occur when a sheet of hard, After the avalanche, the hikers cut the tent into the nearby woods. Disoriented, they couldn't make their way However, experienced hikers were unlikely the freezing cold wearing only minimal clothing Nor was the area known for avalanches. The terrain on the slope is craggy, with boulders here very unlikely. There were also no signs of a recent avalanche There are also theories that the hikers experienced to leave the campsite and simply got lost Their distressed mental state was brought or a potent Mansi liquor. Recent research suggests another explanation A wind phenomenon called a Karman Vortex Street is known to induce irrational fear in humans. Due to the unique topography of the area, pass could have twisted into a series of small The tornadoes whipping through the pass would Also under certain circumstances the winds known as infra-sound. The opposite of ultrasound, infra-sound has of 20 hertz and cannot be picked up by the However, studies have shown intra-sound can loss of sleep, nausea, shortness of breath, Some locations known for being haunted by phenomena, natural or man made occuring there. Exhausted and stuck in a claustrophobic tent growing sensation of foreboding...even the freak out. Once the hikers panicked, they frantically for the elements and ended up lost in a snowstorm. As the hikers succumbed to hypothermia, they or the effect of cold-induced paralysis of the sensation that the body temperature is As a result the victim undresses, because In February of 2019, some 60 years later Russian case due to pressure from relatives, the media The Russian prosecutor general's office is deaths to rest. They plan to involve a team of expert investigators, files and interview those still alive that Also they plan to utilize modern technology However...from the start the officials have that the Dyatlov Incident was caused by an So it seems as if from the start of the new are already attempting to limit the truth night in the Ural mountains so long ago. What do you think happened to the Dyatlov Let us know in the comments! Also, be sure to check out our other video Thanks for watching, and, as always, don't See you next time!