If x, y, and z are complex numbers x squared plus y squared plus z squared equals 2, what is x to the fourth plus y to the fourth plus would be awfully convenient. Give this problem Before getting started, I should lot more than just solving systems of we'll be building up to a beautiful theorem called which we'll prove at the end of the video. If With that said, let's get to solving. A you would do with any system of equations and solve for each one of them isolating y in the first equation, so we we plug this value of y into the second equation Next, we want to solve this equation this is simply a quadratic equation in x, We first expand the middle term. Now, we combine like terms to z minus two x plus two z squared Ok, bear with me, because we're going to but I promise, I'll make and it will all be worth it when We have this quadratic equation in x, so let's into standard form - a x squared plus b x plus x. We can do this by subtracting the two to the plus two z minus two x plus two z squared minus a is two, b is two z minus two, and c Finally, we can apply the quadratic formula. That Now, we'll revisit the expression we had for expression for y in terms of z. Remember At last, we have x just in terms of so we can plug these two expressions into This equation is nice because it only contains you know what we have to do - simplify. To screen. Nothing clever is going on here, I'm just where possible. Don't worry about following Woah. We ended up with something six z squared minus three z minus one equals zero. The formula looks like this. Yikes, that's pretty headache. And even if we were to successfully We'd have to plug the value we get for z back to to the fourth power and add them to compute x fourth. So while this new equation seems helpful, So, what else can we do? The astute among you may the problem - our choice of which variables to Instead of isolating y in the first equation, minus x minus y. Then, we could've plugged to get an equation just in terms of x and y, But remember this equation we had before with with the variables switched around. That means the got for x before, just with an x instead of a z. y in the first equation and then eliminated y and involving x, we'd end up with essentially So, doing the analogous simplification steps, just with x instead of z. Six x cubed minus six And I bet you can see how we'd get These three equations imply that x, y, and z, are all roots of the polynomial 6 t cubed The whole reason this works is because in each of same role. They're all added together in the first in the second equation, and they're all cubed means that if we do some procedure to derive a that z is a root of some polynomial, we can to derive the same fact about them - all the A mathematically precise way of expressing same role is as follows. Suppose we define based on the given equations. These functions have plug the inputs in. For instance, f of x, y, z is equals z plus x plus y, no matter what x, y and In fact, any ordering of the three A mathematician would say So, how does the fact that the us? We've already used the symmetry these other two equations must be true. out what x to the fourth plus y to the fourth can use these three equations, and the given Here's something you may have tried. Since we multiply the first equation by x, the second by the fourth powers in sight - all we need to do is This is super convenient because we so we'll just substitute those values in. After our answer. X to the fourth plus y to the fourth Awesome, we solved the problem using some just touching the tip of the iceberg. Here's It's a bit of a mouthful, so I won't If you're brave enough, give this problem a shot. Before we get our hands dirty, notice the one - yet again, we're trying to find the Moreover, all the given equations are For the first equation it's as if, for and split that variable from the product to make from w x y z gives w plus x y z, splitting x Since we did the same procedure to each the equation is symmetric. The second equation is symmetric we squared it, then multiplied by all the other It's a little trickier to see why the third like this. Using the four variables w, x, y, and w y, w z, x y, x z, and y z. To form then multiplied by the two variables that don't As for the fourth equation, I leave that to Okay. Hopefully you're convinced all the equations when we were solving the first problem, we did that all the variables were a root of. especially since these equations seem more But, it would still be useful to have a nice since you could apply the same trick as before to Maybe there's another way to get that polynomial Well, if we want a polynomial p of t such that the simplest thing we can do is let p of minus y times t minus z. If you plug any one of the factors is zero, so the That's great and all, but if we're going to sum of the fourth powers, we need p of t to look out. Since p is a fourth degree polynomial, something times t to the fourth, plus something plus something times t, plus some constant. The first one is easy - there's only one t to out the product - we have to take a t from the fourth is just one. Now, how do we get a minus w from the first factor, and a t from or we could take these to get minus x t cubed, to get a t cubed term, so in total we have minus squared terms. We get a t squared term whenever we we'll have a t squared term for every pair so the coefficient of t squared is w x plus What about the linear terms? Those occur so the coefficient is minus x y z plus w y the constant term. There's only one and that's by multiplying all of w, Now, this equation is a bit of a mess, so let's s one be the sum of the constants, w plus x plus pairs of constants, w x plus w y plus w z plus x possible triplets of constants, x y z plus w y z product of all four constants, w x y z, which is We can now rewrite p of t as p of t cubed plus s two t squared minus s three t plus So the question is, is there a way we can use the I hope you noticed the similarities between s one, For instance, in the first equation, the next four terms constitute s three, so we If we factor out w x y z from the second equation, Similarly, in the third equation, factor is s two, and the second factor is And the last equation is just s Now, this is a much simpler system of four solve it! Adding the second and fourth equations Then, we can factor out the s four and replace s four equals minus four. Lastly, we can replace s one equals minus a fourth, s two equals minus two Phew! We solved for s one, s two, s three, and to get p of t equals t to the fourth, plus a plus three fourths t, minus four. And, because x, y, and z are all roots, these Let's multiply everything by four to clear the to the fourth plus x to the fourth plus y to add the equations. This gives us four times the sum minus twice the sum of the squares, plus But this is an issue, because we don't know to when we solved the first problem, the sum of the squares, and the sum of equations. Unfortunately in this problem, But, all hope isn't lost. I mean, we z is - that's s one, which is minus Now let's tackle the sum of the were just s one squared. But Well, what is s one squared? It can't be too If we multiply it out, we get this. There's our target - the sum of the plus w y plus w z plus x y plus x z plus y z. Do w squared plus x squared plus y squared plus z plug in the fact that s one is minus a fourth sum of the squares is seventeen over sixteen. All that's left is the sum of the cubes. Maybe of the squares. We'll start by cubing s one. mess, let's think about what sort of we'll have the cubes - w cubed plus Next, we'll have terms that are the square of one the term w squared x occurs three times. Here Finally, we'll have terms that are the product the term x y z occurs six times. Here Now, this looks like a mess, but we can already sum of the cubes here, which is what we want The only thing left to deal with is this a lot like s two, with every pair of variables which is the issue. Maybe we can multiply s two Let's try multiplying s two with s one. When we first factor is the same as one of the variables But other times, none of the variables This term occurs three times, and Okay, I promise we're almost done. Here's and this piece is just s three. Let's Voila! We'll now take this nineteen over Now, we'll plug in the numbers for s one arithmetic here - the sum of the cubes Unraveling the last layer, and after some more arithmetic - drum to the fourth plus y to the fourth plus z to Awesome, we solved another crazy system introduction to prove a beautiful theorem for you. This theorem has actually been Did you notice that, in the last problem, once s four, we could figure out everything else we forget about the given equations. For instance, we plus z squared is just s one squared minus s one s two minus three s three. The fact that s those expressions is no coincidence. In fact, the w, x, y, and z, as long as it's symmetric. Since they have a name - they're called the elementary Now, so far we've just been working in the we had four elementary symmetric polynomials. We Suppose we have n variables, x one through polynomials in n variables would be s one, of all possible pairs of variables - and note x two x one, so we don't add it twice; s three, s four, the sum of all possible quadruplets of the sum of all possible n-tuples of variables, The Fundamental Theorem of Symmetric Polynomials beginning - says that any polynomial involving x by any combination of adding, subtracting, and long as it's symmetric, can be written solely in s one, s two, through s n. We already work when we were solving the last system of Let's start with a little organization. to write it in some standardized The standard form can be found by first, terms, and second, ordering the terms according example. The example I use will be with just x four, but the exact same logic applies Suppose we want to write the polynomial times x one x three minus x two x four all squared in standard form. The first step combining like terms, and if you Second, we want to order the terms according notation, so let's insert any missing variables one on variables that don't have an exponent. Now, just concatenating the exponents into a four-digit Then we order the terms based on their zero four four four, which is the smallest of them, so it'll be the first term in the standard form. Next, this one over here has multidegree one three Boom, that's our standard form. Now, what if we wanted to write this polynomial To simplify things, let's and start by focusing on the very last term Can we generate this term using some combination Here's one idea. Since we need x one to the to the sixth. Then, since we need x let's take s three, which has the term If we were to expand s one to the sixth would be this one. Thus, by subtracting it of the highest multidegree term. But there's an issue with this but the expansion of s one to the many complicated terms other than the one that it introduces terms with multidegree the term x one to the eighth times x two squared which has an multidegree of eight two two zero. We with the largest multidegree without introducing Can you think of a new way of multiplying together term appears, and no terms with multidegree higher shot. As a hint, note that when you multiply multidegree in the product is the product of the Here's the solution. We need the exponent on x two. If you were to raise s two, the highest multidegree term in the on x one and x two. Thus, the only way exponents is by using s one. This means The highest multidegree term in this expansion is by x one squared times x two squared times x three term. That's exactly s four squared, so we should If that didn't make sense, just see for yourself. x two squared x three squared x four squared higher multidegree because the only term where the This means that if we subtract s one to the fourth we'll cancel out the term with multidegree the highest multidegree in both our original fourth times s four squared, all the terms in this six two two two. We've effectively reduced So, let's repeat the process. Write then figure out a way to get rid of the off a product of elementary symmetric and again. Since the highest multidegree is the only term left will be a term with multidegree Now, we simply rearrange things, and just like polynomial in terms of the elementary symmetric out what these question marks should be based on So, let's say we're at point in the process we're trying to get rid of, is a times x one to d three times x four to the d four, where a is just some d four are the exponents on each variable. What constants would generate this term but not Before digging into this problem, notice order - d one is at least d two, which is at least suppose the term with the highest violating the decreasing order because Since the polynomial is symmetric, there must be a we rewrite this term so that the variables appear of this other term is larger than the multidegree that it had the highest multidegree. Hence, Ok, with that observation out of the way, pause question marks be? It may be worth trying This one was pretty tough, but here's the answer. the exponent on x two can only be accounted for all the other elementary symmetric polynomials s one should be raised to the d one minus d are in decreasing order. Now that we've chosen d two and d three can only be accounted for by both s three and s four puts the same exponent on the d two minus d three. Continuing this logic, four. Finally, to figure out the exponent on s the highest multidegree term so far, so to get x To make the constants match up, the If you're not convinced, let's double check. If we term would be the product of the highest a times x one to the d one minus d two times x one x three to the d three minus d four times x one and adding the appropriate one to the d one minus d two plus d two minus d x two to the d two minus d three plus d three d three minus d four plus d four times x four to times x two to the d two times x three to the d three times x four And that's it! We have a procedure to of just the elementary symmetric polynomials. p of x one to x n. We write p in standard form, say it's a x one to the d one through x n to the d one minus d two times s two to the d two minus one minus d n times s n to the d n, from p, to the new polynomial, writing it in standard form, and subtracting another product of We keep doing this until we're just left with a If you made it this far, congratulations. by solving an innocuous looking question We then used what we learned from that solution Finally, we made the observation that the be used to form any symmetric expression we a theorem with a rigorous proof. Learning anything new in math is hard, I've left some more problems on screen. The the new equation solving techniques you depth into what we've covered. If you solve We'd like to thank everyone for the it's really what motivated us to make this let us know in the comments section. If you haven't seen the video we made last year - what's so natural about the number e Well, I think we've said everything that needs to Wait a minute, what's that? UHAHHHHH