Hey, everybody. Don Georgevich here with Job Interview Tools. Today, I want to talk to you about how you So, if you have a job interview coming up or vice president, you want to ace it? Go ahead, hit the "Like" button on this I'll show you how. So, CEOs are going to interview from a different or someone in HR. They are going to hit you from a side that They're not going to ask you all the common and what are your accomplishments? What are your weaknesses?" Now, we're going to dig a little bit deeper. And here's what you need to be like in the So, first thing, you need to be passionate And that needs to just resonate; that energy interview, so they can just see it and feel And it can't just be in your voice. It has to be in your body language and your You need to be passionate and enthusiastic and the value that you can bring to them. Most important, you want to show them that that you understand them and that you can Number two, talk about related accomplishment. Don't just talk about your job description You want to talk about things that you have this position. You don't want to talk about stuff that isn't it has no value. You are trying to connect your past experience So, the best way to do this is first get a what they're looking for specifically. Then you go through your own past experience they might be interested in hearing that connect And that way you can go in there and you can them. Make sense? All right. Number three, understand the company and the Do some research on this company. Look them up, study them. And don't just look on their website. Google their name, see if they're mentioned Learn as much as you can about them. What's important to them? What's their vision? What's their mission? So, you can go in there and talk to them like they're facing, what their reputation is in And you should be prepared if they ask you, And if you just say, "Well, I kind of know That isn't going to cut it. You're going to have to give them some meat that you've read about them. And it would also help if you knew a little with. Looking them up on LinkedIn. Read that CEO's bio. Read all the places that they've worked. That way, when you go in there, you can say, at General Electric 15 years ago. How did you like that?" or "Why did you Little questions like that, engaging the person that they're looking for. And you're asking them about their own personal They're going to be happy to talk about that. People love talking about themselves and they themselves. All right, moving on here. Number four, challenge them. Ask them questions that challenge them. Don't just sit there and answer all their I mean, an interview is a conversation and You want to challenge them on the direction Ask them about failed products that they had. I mean, if they're a public company, they're So, you can ask them questions about, "Why you think you guys are going to recover from Push them. Make them sell you on working there. That's really what an executive is going to You need to challenge them to a point where, but they're kind of explaining themselves And at the same time, they're trying to sell So, if you're not pushing in, challenging them, they're just going to think you're weak people. Number five, let them know what makes you What motivates you? What gets you out of bed in the morning? Let them know why you do what you do. Let them know that you're excited about your And not only that, you're excited, but why Why it gets you out of bed in the morning. Why you are passionate about it. Don't just say, "I love what I do." Dig deep and show them who you are, why you career. When you're really dealing with a CEO, you're So, you need to demonstrate to them that you're Why are you a leader? I mean, if you're going to leave a hundred hundred people? Those hundred people are going to look to So, you're going to have to motivate them. And if you don't have anything that motivates not cut out for the C-Suite. Make sense? All right, moving on here to number six. Be a great conversationalist. Talk. Engage. Show them that you're interested in what they You're interested in that individual. You're interested in their vision, their mission, And talk to them, humanly. Don't just think this is an interview where of their questions. Engage them back. Talk to them. Have a meaningful conversation. Show them that you can carry on a conversation Show them that they can challenge you and When you first go into the company, strike Strike up a conversation with maybe the Human meet along the way. Because all of those people are going to weigh And if they think you're a great conversationalist you're talking, that's going to help them around here. And I can pretty much assure you that the and just holds everything they have to say kind of come across as a little bit flat. And you want to show them that you are willing people. And that's how people get to know you. I mean, when you start talking, all these guy. He's so nice. He was so pleasant. He was asking about me. He was asking about my office." Whatever. That's how you win with CEO. Number seven; culture fit. I mean, you can have all of the experience You can be the perfect match. You can have everything they need. But if you don't blend or gel with their culture, And there's a reason for that. If you're not going to fit in with their culture, about you that isn't quite right. That means you're not on the same page as And chances are, if they bring you in, that that already work there and they're not going this kind of this mismatch there of management And that doesn't work. So, culture fit is everything; you need to going. And you need to believe in it. You need to believe in their mission, their You need to be passionate about that. And we've already covered passion in one of And if you notice a lot of these different each one that carries on to the next. Last one here I have here is number eight. CEOs are going to hire the least risky candidate. That's right; the candidate who poses the Not the most qualified, not the most experienced, the most talented individual that they think I mean, think about it. If they bring you into the company and you're who are working with you might not like to level. If you're not on the same level, they might They may like, "Oh, my gosh. I don't like this new Don guy; this new vice He's such a jerk. He doesn't understand us." And then those people, their own high-performing So, that's why a CEO is going to hire the least risk to the organization, the mission, there. And you need to keep that in mind; it's not It's are you going to work out long-term? They don't want to hire somebody who's just year and then is gone. They want someone who's going to work there and they're going to hire the person that employees, the company and everything else. All right, my friend. It's all I got for you today. And one more thing. Before your next interview, you go ahead and CEO. This little book here. This little top 10 book is going to teach I mean, CEOs still might ask you, "So, Don, But they're not going to ask you necessarily But learning how to answer these questions all their questions that they ask. It's going to kind of give you the right framework All right. So, you can get that free book from jobinterviewtools.com/top10. Now, if you like what we're doing here, you'll subscribe to my channel and like this video. And I'll see you in the next video. Bye now.