Can a moon have a moon? If so, what would we call such an object? And do we know of any moons out there that could possibly pull this off? A few years back my Kepler 1625b-i, the But what made the candidate particularly astonishing was the enormous size. A Neptune-like moon orbiting Still to date, we don't know whether the candidate was real or not because Kepler suffered preventing it from re-observing the star. Nevertheless though, just last year and right here in the Cool Worlds lab, we found the second exomoon Once again, the object was a mini Neptune-size moon, this time, around a Jupiter-size planet. Even though these objects they have sparked plenty of discussion and one question I've is could these moons have their own moons? Now since Kepler 1625b-i then the temptation is to Both of which, of course, have dozens of satellites around them and so, by extension, submoons might seem quite promising then. But, of course, Uranus which means they must have than that of Kepler 1625b-i. Perhaps efficiently so that we really shouldn't expect to Probably the simplest thing we can say without any controversy, is that at least for a small satellite, yes, it is possible to put because, hey, we've already done it. In fact, we've been In March 1966, the became the first of now many vehicles to successfully orbit the moon. In fact, completing over 460 orbits before the mission was terminated. But whilst that was indeed a satellite, it wasn't a natural satellite And of course we have to admit that by astronomical standards, those were just tiny objects. So the question remains. How large of a moon can sustainably orbit around another moon? To figure this out, let's take a step back and ask even if these moons somehow form their own satellites, let's call them submoons for the moment, would those submoons survive It's one thing to make a submoon, it's another thing to hold onto it. A smaller body in orbit of a larger body can be lost through two basic processes. They either get too If they get too close, can get tidally ripped apart or even just crash together in a dramatic encounter. On the other hand, if then the gravitational tug of other bodies in the system can disrupt the pair. Now for a moon orbiting a planet, their primary other source of gravity is the star which the pair orbit and the threshold will essentially steal away the moon defines the so-called Hill sphere, one of the most important If a moon drifts outside of this region, which technically isn't a perfect sphere, then it will be lost. Or, in fact, usually even about half of the Hill radius is often sufficient. Now, the reason why this matters so much is because gradually evolve over time. Every moon in the Solar System is slightly changing its Nothing has permanence. Our own Moon exemplifies this, moving away from us by four But why? Because of one word, tides. The Moon raises tides on the Earth, giving us two high tides per day. This happens because the is slightly different gently massaging the oceans towards the sublunar causing this bulging effect. Now, since the Earth which is much quicker than then this bulge can be thought of as trying to overtake the Moon. But then it gets pulled back through the gravity of the Moon again. This effectively slows the Earth down, gradually reducing its spin over time. However, since the Earth-Moon system, like any other pair of objects, has to conserve angular momentum, then the slowing down of the Earth demands an increase elsewhere in the system, Like a skater sticking the Earth can be thought of pushing the Moon away If we could make the Moon more massive, then this process would because the tides raised on But make the moon too heavy, and the recession rate becomes so fast that the Moon will escape the Hill sphere in just a few billion years or less, thus defining an unstable moon. So look, really, you around any sized planet and be okay, at least in the short term. But if you want stability then very large moons become precarious, because of their very rapid And I should also note that these motions don't always have to be a recession. The Moon would actually if the Earth was spinning slower than the Moon's revolution It would be an understatement to say that the film, Moonfall, did not accurately portray This process of migrating in or out, also known as tidal acceleration, is the primary limiting factor as to how big of a moon And so by the same token, it is also the primary limiting factor as to how large of a submoon In the same way that a planet where it's gravity dominates allowing for moons, a moon around it where its gravity dominates over that of the planet, But merely residing within is not suffice, the submoon that it can stay there Too big and the tides that will cause the submoon to exit Much of the theory of moon tidal evolution was worked out decades ago, especially in a classic paper by And so, starting from this, one can really just reuse that theory but just switch over the labels And that's exactly what back in 2019, shortly after So let's take a look at their results and start with Saturn as In this figure, we're assuming that the submoon is pretty small, just 10 kilometers in size On the X and Y axes, the authors are varying the properties Specifically, the X-axis between Saturn and the moon and the Y-axis changes Kollmeier and Raymond find that any moons above this line could hold so this seems good news. Indeed this result should make sense. The further away the moon is from Saturn, the larger its Hill sphere will be, because Saturn's gravity We can also change the submoon from 10 kilometers in which gives us this dash line, or five kilometers, giving So far, this is pretty generalized, but now let's add Saturn's actual real moons onto this diagram. Titan, which is by far the is certainly in the running but really, it's her less that steals the show as In fact, according to this model, Iapetus should be able up to a respectable which is about the size of Mimas. Now looking at the other Callisto around Jupiter and are also capable of holding but neither displace at least in theory. Now Iapetus does not nor indeed do Callisto, Titan or the Moon. So does this therefore establish that submoons are impossible? Well, not quite, because are constantly changing in their orbits. So it's quite possible that these moons start out their lives had smaller Hill spheres around them as a result of that and then consequently lost their submoons fairly expediently, so we just don't see them today. In fact, Kollmeier and Raymond highlight that Iapetus may, in fact, with clues about a previous submoon. You see, Iapetus has running along its equator, which largely remains a In 2011, it was suggested that something may have smashed into Iapetus, forming a temporary submoon Over time, the submoon may have evolved outwards and eventually escaped, just as we've been but the ring of debris instead may have reigned inwards, Submoons in the Solar System but the prospects of submoons when we look out to these that we've recently discovered, things like Kepler 1625b-i. In this case&lt; the moon is of holding onto a much of similar size to the Of course, such a submoon to be detectable with current But if these giant exomoon then that suggests there out there in the cosmos and perhaps then, there are even better submoon hosts, just waiting to be found. So could we imagine an even One extreme case we can consider is taking Jupiter around the Sun, but making it 10 times more massive, a super Jupiter planet, yet not heavy enough to Now imagine that we put a similar to Kepler 1625b-i, but parked much further which would still be within half of a Hill radius away from the planet. Okay, so fa, so good. That Neptune-like moon would Now we could put a pretty Let's go for an Earth-size one for fun. Such a submoon is perfectly is at least 100 planetary which, of course, is true, because we chose 800 for that number. So to recap, we have a Sun-like star that has a super Jupiter-like planet that has a Neptune-like moon and so one question we might ask is could that Earth-like So I don't know what we'd call that. It's kinda ridiculous. A moon-moon-moon, a The Neptunian moon here has a Hill radius of 276 Neptune radii, so let's park our submoon And by placing it like that, our submoon would have its own little of 135 Earth radii, plenty of space for a sub-submoon, it would seem. Putting something at the outer for stability is that 60 Earth radii that would allow for a maximum sub-submoon of something like 50 kilometers in radius. Not too shabby, a good size So initial calculations do indeed suggest that yes, you can have moons of moons and perhaps you can even Although you need some fairly well-chosen parameters to pull that off. However, one issue is that allow for the submoons orbit and that's really not realistic, because we know that moons Anyone looking for a good could perhaps revisit these calculations, accounting for that motion, reduce the range of submoons further, but I doubt it would be enough I'm happy to offer any So if we do find one of what should we call them? I've been using the phrase but others have suggested moon-moon or perhaps we might even imagine But another suggestion the word moon altogether and after all, we don't or planet-planets so why I'm sure you have some ideas. Please do let me know down below in the comments what you think. As a final thought, these that wholly astronomical objects might yet be lurking amongst the stars. I think that this underpins why astronomy, despite being the oldest of sciences, still captivates us like none other. For even today, we've barely scratched the surface of what await us out there. Submoons, quark star, much more that we've For many, I know that these Perhaps we might wish at a time when all had been found. But for me, I think it's worth cherishing that we get to live in in a time where our So until next time. Stay thoughtful, stay curious. (upbeat ethereal music) Thank you so much for watching, everybody. If you enjoyed this and wanna support my research team's hunt and, hey, maybe even submoons then be sure to click the link up above where you can become a at Columbia University, just who I want to personally thank. That is Lee Deakin and Ryan Provost. Thank you so much for your support. So thanks again for watching and see you around the galaxy. (upbeat ethereal music)