Right! The origin of every English city's name. There are 55 of them... That's quite a lot. So let's get cracking. First some quick context: England's place They've been influenced by - in order -the the Romans who spent a few centuries there, the Vikings who took control of a massive chunk of Throw in some Christianity and a and mishearings and you get to Now we're just going to look at the cities, Contrary to popular belief, there are no specific criteria for a place in It's just at some point the monarch None of this "it has to have a That's why they're of all shapes and sizes. So with which city do we start? Well Because, not only is London our nation's capital, but it is also potentially one of the oldest - The earliest known name for London is but we have no idea what that The Romans liked to adapt the existing names But historians haven't been able Could it be from this meaning marsh with a fort? Nope. There's no evidence of a fort. Could it be from this Maybe but it's a bit of a leap, isn't it? So historians think the name could from a language we know nothing about. Wow. That's great, but now I need to give So let's go with the presidential cathedral was once the tallest Its name is a Celtic-Roman hybrid. The of London - using their word for pool, after they built a colonia there - Through a few centuries of laziness and One of the theories behind how Colchester got its name is from one of those Roman It looks like it's named after the River Colne, But some historians reckon because it pops up in other names Now, the -chester in Colchester about because the story behind it is surprisingly... surprising. At first glance, it seems simple. The word for a fortification was castrum, so Easy. But nope. Yes, the chester comes from the Latin for It was the Anglo-Saxons who put "Hey that's where the Romans were!" And the same goes for every -chester, So let's tick off some cities. You've got Chichester, which is probably Winchester, with the Win thought to come from a Celtic word for a meeting place Manchester is potentially named after related to the words mammal The Romans called it Mancunium, hence And then there's Chester, It was a Roman fort like the rest of them but has resisted attempts to differentiate The names Legechester - "legion chester" Etymologically identical to the -chesters are River Lune, in turn thought to come Doncaster is at the River Don. Don so it's literally the River River. As are the various River Avons Exeter is another "caster" on a river, which used to be this mouthful before it It's named after the River Exe, which Specifically a river replete with fish. More on rivers to come - and also bridges, Pun intended. But first the final Roman forts: the -cesters, not a single one of which is We do it to confuse tourists. Cirencester stays true to its roots, but But we are interested in Leicester: It's named after a Celtic tribe and to You can actually see a version But bit by bit we shed those tiresome Speech didn't match spelling because, To the West, saucy little Worcester And the southern city of thought to maybe come from a Celtic word for glow. So with all those cesters, casters and chesters, the Anglo-Saxons gave a nod to But almost everywhere else they named or And they're responsible for the vast Among them, Norwich, which is the north wic, wic being an Anglo-Saxon word It gives us the -wick place names too. The northernness of Norwich is likely in down in Ipswich, which isn't a city East Anglia is of course so called Another Anglo-Saxon pairing are but this time it is the southern Southampton was originally actually another In this case, the hamm bit comes enclosure - probably the same root as when We'll talk about a different But anyway, the ton or tun Eventually it becomes our word "town". Up in West Yorkshire, Wakefield Field meant... well have a guess. Yes, field. And a wake was a kind of medieval village Wakefield is actually a fun, Another city with an Anglo-Saxon The River Trent is referenced to Stoke coming from the Old English The same word also gives us Now, I've shown you lots of maps during this It is the electoral map of the election, where large parts of the country But now they're in power, getting an unbiased Take this story, for example, on Labour's decision to release offenders early to There are nearly fifty outlets but you can see that the language they outlets stressing it'll prevent the Meanwhile, right-wing media emphasize that "thousands of criminals" will be Now here on my channel, we delve understand how words and context shape meaning. And Ground News does something allowing us to see different Ground News is an app and website providing additional context to I've partnered with Ground News a few And in a crucial election year like I get to follow news most important to me like Plus, with the Vantage plan I use, showing you stories that That way, you won't miss a thing. See through the headlines and stay fully informed. Go to Ground.news/robwords get 40% off unlimited access to Ground News. Now I said we'd cross this bridge when we Because Cambridge is so called because It was originally called Grantabrycge however it appears that the Normans struggled to so it morphed into Cam-bridge or Cambridge. And then, rather ridiculously, the So the river running through Although at some other points Cambridge's university rivals in Oxford can Ford is a really common Anglo-Saxon It's a place you can get across a river Oxford is where you could Near the Welsh border, Hereford means "place where Then across in Essex - so called because it was the eastern kingdom It's thought to be named who also gave his name to the River And then, back in Yorkshire, There's one more ford city The sal bit comes from the sallow They are a type of willow, and also Sellafield and Selborne, among others. Salford ain't the only city The tree at the end of It's reckoned the rest of the name One theory is that it was a Saxon called Cofa. And another tree has taken root in the name The Old Celtic name meant grey wood. The Saxons added the -field to make it Another notable field is Sheffield: Sheaf itself means to divide be a-sceaf in Old English was to be expelled. The river acted as a boundary between territories. Yorkshire's rivers feature heavily We already heard about Doncaster's Don, But also, the name of Leeds flows from Its Celtic name - Landensis - meant By the time Anglo-Saxon monk the Venerable And Kingston-upon-Hull, is named after the river there, either from the Celtic for or the Old Norse for "deep" Old Norse is the language of the Vikings, The Kingston bit of Kingston-upon-Hull The King in question is Edward chasing a hare in the area one The area, not the hare. So he had it for his own. The area not the hare. And the tiny, tiny North Yorkshire city of Ripon Its earliest recorded name is Inhrypum but One theory is that it means "at up by its location near where two rivers meet. But I'm actually more convinced by the theory it's Now, arguably England's worst watery place name belongs to the similarly small city Yes, Ely is thought to get its And on the south coast, Portsmouth is so called Although a famous old document called the actually named after a Saxon called Port, which And the equally mouthy Plymouth Plym perhaps simply comes so I could have mentioned this Another watery one - perhaps the wettest of which is named after the The Romans called it Aquae Apparently Sulis was a local The Anglo-Saxons simplified things The nearby cathedral city of Wells has a Its Old English name Wella referred to the Now, while we're in the vicinity we should bring Quite literally: it's thought to At one point it was Bridge-stow. However the theory is that the name changed Supposedly folk in the area had a bit like some people now say giw instead Now Bridgestow really did have a W at folk keen not to seem ignorant may even though it was never meant Thus, with a bit of laziness you get from Bridgestow to Bristol. Although, One last wet one is way up in Liverpool, It was first recorded in the 12th The pool bit is thought to refer to a muddy And the liver? Well, maybe Ach. Sorry. I don't know, actually. I couldn't find a good explanation for that one. Yap. Now, before we get onto the Viking and Norman nomenclature - Norman-clature - we need because there's a really common suffixes - that we haven't talked about yet. You see, when the Angles and Saxons felt one from the Vikings I just mentioned - they Fortifications that they called burhs. And the locations of these forts are preserved in the place names ending -burgh The city of Canterbury was the burh of the Although the twist in the Canterbury built the fortification there, Although the term Anglo-Saxon actually refers Salisbury played host to another Anglo-Saxon burh. The Salis bit though - that we now so apathetically pronounce - It's thought to potentially have name of the astonishing nearby Indeed at one point Salisbury But where that Sarum comes from... nobody knows. Another city that's thoroughly In fact, the locals for a time just called it borough but eventually realised So they extended it to Peterborough in honour of the monastery around which the A monastery dedicated to none other than St Peter. Once the Anglo-Saxons left behind and converted to Christianity, they And the Peter in Peterborough is just one holy hint at that. Another one It's named after the very first British saint, St Alban, who was martyred there, in He was executed in the 3rd or 4th a conversion that the Romans would not that long The City of Westminster also has The minster in question is the The West part may well have been to But hiding its holy history just a little You'll recognise the -ton bit, but Preston is specifically thought to be An abbey was set up there by St Wilfrid. Right, we're making some Let's keep going. The priests of Preston weren't the only In fact, the Anglo-Saxons Birmingham is named after a fella called The ing bit is an Anglo-Saxon element also from Old English, an ancestor So Birmingham means homestead It was the home of Beorma's tribe, the Beormingas. Also in the West Midlands, Wolverhampton It's thought to be named who was granted the land by Ethelred the Unready. If so, that makes it the only Although there is a theory famously female St AEthelthryth, rather than eels. Let's hope it is. Anyway, Wulfrun's new land included a place called Her name plus that gave Wulfruneheantun, which in Back down on the South Coast, the city of The Brighton bit was originally farm. Beorhthelm is thought to have been a The much longer name, Brighthelmstone was in The Hove bit of Brighton and Hove is, It's perhaps from the Old English "hofe" meaning courtyard - the Okay, hold onto your feathered hats, where I suspect the tales of Robin Hood would have been somewhat less romantic had they Nottingham hasn't always been That's right, it was named after a means the homestead of the followers These are Snot's people. It's a city of snot. Snotty, snotty Nottingham. It perhaps isn't the association with nasal discharge though that More likely the Normans just And lucky for the city that they did. Okay: it's Viking time. Because while we're in Nottingham we're in one the massive chunk of England that the Norse To this day you can see where the Vikings were Close to Nottingham is the city of Derby, another of the five boroughs, and which we used to spell it in a way that The -by in Derby is a classic Scandinavian suffix. It's a fairly generic one meaning anything So let's just say place. And in Derby's case it means place of the deer. It replaced the Anglo-Saxon but anyway other Viking -by places However, Derby is the only one to As important as Derby and they were nothing compared to the development of the name of The Celts called it something which the Romans adapted Both meant "place of the yew tree". However, when the Anglo-Saxons came to adapt that, they got their translation a little bit wrong The Vikings put their spin on But after they left, the To the people who remained a V was the same as a U so they likely pronounced And from there, you basically are already at York. Now further north Durham but it appears to have been close enough It used to be called Dunelm or Dunholm, a dun, and the Scandinavian word, holme, It reflects the fact it's on a hill almost Over the centuries the "ham" became While we're on the Wear, let's follow it up to So you know how if we say something's been "ripped asunder" we're saying that it has Well that idea gives Sunderland its name too. It is "land" that has been in some The leading theory is that it refers to of monks living on the opposite side of the I really like that one. Now let's take the short trip to Newcastle It means new castle. It's finally time for the the Norman-clature because William the Conqueror's They couldn't get enough of them. Did you know there wasn't a single castle But after they arrived they put them anywhere and everywhere where that they The castle in Newcastle was probably Normans had already built in Durham, York and The Normans actually didn't generally meddle But on a few occasions they added to them For example, the town of Ashby de la Zouch was just called Ashby until the And Leighton Buzzard was so But there's only one current city that the Normans Now, there's a bit of a joke - although I think some people think it's true - that the the poet John Milton and the But that isn't the case. The Milton bit is a simple a shortening of Middleton meaning middle village. All Suttons mean southern village and all Nortons mean northern village. A nyway the Keynes bit comes from the Cahaignes Wow, just three more cities to sweep up. The ones I didn't know where else to put. Okay, first: Southend-on-Sea, whose original settlement was at the south and it sits on the sea. At the other extreme of England is Carlisle, It's thought to mean fort of Lug, The Romans called it Luguvalium. But after they left, the locals translated it back into their local in which it was Caer Luel. And thence Carlisle. Our final city name comes from another It is the tricky-to-decipher Truro. This name might come from the Cornish - another But maybe not. It might be from another lost term meaning The mystery remains. The Celtic languages have so much That is why I have limited Wales and Scotland have their own stories to tell. But if you have enjoyed this video, I've posted some extra stuff about And I think you'd enjoy this video as well. Thanks to Ground News - check them out I'll see you in the next thing. Cheerio. Nyaaa.