What makes a great scientist truly great? Any big reveal? Number of awards? h- index ? Or maybe some accident that turned everything upside down overnight? History knows many different examples when a significant discovery occurred literally in one day, sometimes truly due to chance or unexpected insight, but it also knows those cases when a person, through long and hard work, moves towards his goal for many years and ultimately achieves success. However, if we take one of the greatest scientists of Russian history, Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev, which of these groups should we place him in? Accidental revelation or many years of searching? We all know this legend that his famous table of chemical elements appeared to him in a dream, but could such a complex system just come into existence with a snap of his fingers, and if so, what kind of genius must have hidden in its author? Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev is one of the most mythologized Russian scientists, and it's not just about this story with dreams. Inventions of standard vodka, making suitcases, industrial espionage and theft of ideas from foreign scientists. And this is just a short list of what you can hear about Mendeleev, what everyone hears. And is this really all that can be said about him? Is it really possible that the name of a person whose photograph adorns every first school chemistry classroom actually hides behind it only a set of tales and one random discovery? If this were so, then we would be talking about someone else now. But we'll talk specifically about Mendeleev, because his life is not vodka and suitcases, it's real adventures, a long path of scientific thought and a deep personal story from which we all have something to learn. Well, my name is Dmitry and this is the story of Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev. Any person who knows Russian is familiar with the name of our today's hero, and Mendeleev has always been widely known in Western countries. Moreover, he was remembered not only as a chemist. Engineer, oil worker, economist, metrologist, aeronaut - this is just a short list of areas of his activity. Well, as for the presentation of Dmitry Ivanovich as a person, today we have a special case. This is the latest story that we have analyzed! These are not some ancient Greeks about whom we tried to find out at least something, this is the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth, one might say the decline of the empire. We have at our disposal a huge amount of evidence, documents and memoirs, we even have numerous photographs of our hero, so we will not only be able to reconstruct his life in as much detail as possible, but for the first time we will be able to see the real him... not in the imagination of artists, who in some cases They have never seen those who are being painted, but a real, one might say living, person. Today you and I can truly live our whole lives. But before we begin, I want to introduce you to this episode's partner. It's no secret that an IT specialist is now one of the most paid professions , and my partner online school Skillectory offers you an educational course as a Python tester. A testing engineer is responsible for monitoring the quality of an IT product. Its main task is to find and analyze bugs, including errors in a program, website or application. After that, he compiles a report with the error scenario and sends it to the developer. I clicked something, it blinked and everything disappeared. Well, of course it doesn't work that way. The tester goes through the path of an ordinary user and looks for scenarios in which the site or applications do not work correctly. As in the famous meme "something went wrong," the tester's task is to simulate all possible situations when this very thing went wrong. The average salary of a tester is now 120 thousand rubles and grows with the development of the specialist's skill, while to start training you do not need to read ten volumes of programming, coding or Marx's philosophy, just basic knowledge of working with a computer is enough. Skilfectory offers a guaranteed virtual internship, and the diploma project "Automated Testing" will be created jointly with Rostelecom. Upon completion of training, each student receives a certificate and a letter of recommendation, which will help when applying for a job, in addition, the school has a career center where they help at all stages of employment, from preparing for an interview to searching for vacancies. In January, Skilfectory gives a 45 percent discount using a promotional code, and you can start looking for a job in just 4 months, because Skilfectory teaches those who are hired. Well , it's time for us to move on to Dmitry Ivanovich, the periodic table won't come naturally. Chapter 1: Where is the light of science? Today we are waiting for the most extensive journey in every sense of the word. None of our heroes had such a wide geography of activity as Mendeleev. And although in the course of my story we will visit several continents at once, our story will begin in the Russian Empire of the late 18th century in the Tver Province. If in those days we had gone along the small river Tikhomandritsa of Vyshnevolotsk district, we would have very soon stumbled upon a small village named after the river itself. Here, in the small Church of the Intercession, we could meet the priest Pavel Maksimovich Sokolov, surrounded by his large family of three daughters and four sons: Vasily, Timofey, Alexander and Ivan. And it would seem that what does Mendeleev have to do with it? And despite the fact that this same Ivan... is the future father of our main character. Ivan Pavlovich Sokolov was born in 1783, and together with all his brothers he entered the Tver Theological Seminary as the only opportunity for them to receive primary education in those parts. And the peculiarity of those years is that when several brothers entered the seminary, then upon completion of their studies, spiritual mentors could give them... a different surname. At that time, this was not such a rarity; the Sokolovs were not nobles after all. As a result, only Timofey received the hereditary surname Sokolov, the older brother Vasily became Pokrovsky, in honor of the parish, the younger Alexander received the surname Tikhomandritsky in honor of the village, but Ivan Pavlovich received a strange surname... Mendeleev And here the first mystery arises before us. What kind of surname is this? If two brothers were named after the locality, then what does Mendeleev have to do with it? The answer to this question worries historians even today, because there is still no clear answer. Many years later, our main character Dmitry Ivanovich will write the following about this: "The surname Mendeleev was given to his father when he bartered for something, just as the neighboring landowner Mendeleev bartered horses and cattle. The teacher, according to the consonance "to do a menu," also wrote down his father under the name Mendeleev." That is, the father of the great scientist was named after a neighboring landowner because he MADE A MENA? You know, I would never have believed in such a version if these were not the words of Dmitry Ivanovich himself. But naturally, for many historians, SUCH a version raises well-founded doubts. There is an opinion that the neighboring landowner Mendeleev appeared here for a reason; perhaps he had some kind of relationship with the Sokolov family, and according to one version he was the godfather of Ivan Pavlovich, which affected the choice of the surname. But no evidence of such a connection was found. Then there are absolutely fantastic hypotheses that say Mendeleev comes from the German surname Mendel, or from the Jewish... forgive me... Mendelman, but this already seems completely beyond the bounds. No matter how strange it may sound, the version that Dmitry Ivanovich's father did the barter is the only one that has at least some confirmation. Now this is most often characterized as a family legend of the Mendeleevs, which after so many years is no longer possible to verify. One way or another, Ivan Pavlovich, like his three brothers, was destined to become a priest, but after finishing his studies at the seminary, he avoided being ordained and in 1804 he moved to the capital of the empire, St. Petersburg. There he entered the Pedagogical an institute where people from common people from all over the country were accepted. And now, after three years of study, he receives an appointment as a philosophy teacher at the gymnasium in the city of Tobolsk. One would think that this was supposedly an exile to Siberia, but in Tobolsk Ivan Pavlovich found true happiness. He met and fell madly in love with Maria Dmitrievna Kornilyeva, a girl from a respected family of merchants who had been exploring Siberia since the time of Ermak. Strong feelings flared up between them and in 1809, twenty-six-year-old Ivan Mendeleev and eighteen-year-old Maria Kornilieva got married. Ivan Pavlovich's career was developing quite well and soon he was appointed director of the Tobolsk gymnasium, which made it possible to feed the fast-growing Mendeleev family. And when I say "fast-growing," I mean that in the first 25 years of family life, Maria Dmitrievna gave birth to... seventeen children. True, three died before baptism, without even receiving a name. Do you remember what the infant mortality rate was then, I don't want to repeat it again. Well, on January 27, 1834, the last seventeenth child of the Mendeleev family was born ... the boy Mitenka, who was named in honor of Maria Dmitrievna's father. And this Mitenka... is our main character. True, the birth of Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev was overshadowed by great misfortune. In the same month, the father of the family completely lost his sight due to cataracts and was forced to resign as director of the gymnasium and retire. Due to illness, Ivan Pavlovich was given a pension of 275 rubles a year, but even with the cheapness of life in Siberia, this was in no way enough, so the burden of supporting this huge family fell entirely on the fragile female shoulders of Maria Dmitrievna. And then one can only admire the strength of her spirit. Having gone through all the ways to carry her family, she saw the only real opportunity - the half-abandoned glass factory of her brother Vasily Dmitrievich Korniliev, 25 kilometers from Tobolsk on the Aremzyanka River. His brother had long ago left for service in Moscow and the fate of the abandoned enterprise was of little interest to him, so he happily granted his sister power of attorney to manage the plant, while he himself was only the nominal owner. Moreover, Korniliev even offered to take Vanya Mendeleev, the eldest son of the family, to Moscow for his care, to which the mother, not without a heavy heart, agreed. Maria Dmitrievna transported her blind husband and children to a half-abandoned factory on Aremzyanka, which, through her efforts, soon came back to life and very quickly began producing glass products, mainly pharmaceutical bottles. By 1837, when the enterprise began to generate any profit, the mother managed to pay off the accumulated debts and even send her husband to Moscow to an experienced ophthalmologist, who removed the cataracts from Ivan Pavlovich's eyes and restored his sight. Which was a very joyful event for the whole family. However, the father was not able to return to work at the gymnasium, it is logical to assume that after three years the position of the director was filled, but it's a shame that even a vacancy for a simple teacher was not found then, so the father of the family returned to work began helping his wife with administrative chores. And as soon as the issue of survival was resolved, things seemed to go smoothly, but Maria Dmitrievna's constant busyness with management matters increasingly alienated her from her children. She first felt this acutely when, in 1938, four-year-old Mitenka, her favorite, contracted smallpox and hung between life and death for several weeks. The child recovered, but this gap between mother and children remained firmly entrenched in her mind for the rest of her life. And now we can finally focus on the main character - little Mitya, who was destined to become the great Dmitry Mendeleev. The harsh Siberian upbringing in the company of village children bore fruit - Mitya did not allow himself to be offended, and if something went wrong, without hesitation he got into a fight and hit the offender with a tambourine. He grew up as an emotional and even hot-tempered boy, but devoid of pride and any arrogance. Many years later, being at the pinnacle of scientific fame, he never looked down on the world, and he always communicated with ordinary village men on equal terms. And so in 1941, when Mitka was seven years old, he and his brother Pasha were sent to study at the Tobolsk gymnasium, where his father once worked. And if I tell you that from the very first days he shone with his knowledge and was an outstanding student... then this will not be true. Study very quickly ceased to interest him, and subjects were divided into loved ones and hated ones. He was interested in mathematics, physics and perhaps history. But what the young student hated with all his soul was foreign languages and especially Latin. He always considered hatred for her, if not innate, then at least nurtured in him from early childhood. In short, school was hard, and the fact that our young hero successfully moved from class to class was not so much his own merit or some natural thirst for knowledge, but rather the merit of talented teachers who pulled up the lazy Mitka when it came to expulsion . In general, six years passed in such an atmosphere of relative calm, Mitya and Pasha studied, their daughters gradually grew up and got married, life went on as usual. But... white life streaks tend to end even more suddenly than black ones, and in 1947 misfortune after misfortune fell upon the Mendeleevs. In March, the father of the family, Ivan Pavlovich, died of consumption, that is, of tuberculosis, a few months later his daughter Polenka died, who ended up in an unnamed sect and starved herself to death while observing some strange fast... they overlooked it. And as if all this were not enough, six months later, in an accidental fire , the glass factory in Aremzyanka, which fed the whole family, burned to the ground. By the end of 48, Maria Dmitrievna was left with only two sons and her youngest daughter, Lisa. But six months later the boys graduated from high school and Pasha went to serve in Omsk, so all the mother's love concentrated on Mitya and Lizonka. And at this moment, Maria Dmitrievna suddenly realized that in Tobolsk... nothing was holding them back. It was as if some kind of click sounded in her head and she realized that she must spend the rest of her vitality on arranging a decent life for her two youngest children, so that they would see something other than the Siberian struggle for survival, so that they would see a great life in all its manifestations. She decided to use the rest of her savings to go with the children to Moscow and arrange for Mitya to study at the Moscow Imperial University. We are in Moscow near the Apraksin-Trubetsky house on Pokrovka. A beautiful building is not entirely typical for an ancient capital, but don't think, we ended up here not by chance, because it was here in the fall of 1849 that Maria Dmitrievna brought her children Lisa and Mitya. The fact is that her brother Vasily Dmitrievich Korniliev lived here, the same one who was the nominal owner of the burnt glass factory, but who in fact was the chief manager of the affairs of the princely Trubetskoy family. Korniliev managed all the numerous estates of the Trubetskoy dynasty, and he himself was located in one of their family residences in the so-called chest of drawers on Pokrovka, from where he conducted business. The eldest son of the Mendeleevs, Vanya, who was sent to his uncle for care, lived here for a long time; the father of the family, Ivan Pavlovich, also stayed here for a long time when he came for cataract surgery . Thanks to his position, Vasily Dmitrievich Korniliev had wide connections throughout Moscow and took upon himself the trouble of getting fifteen-year-old Mitya into Moscow University. In the meantime, the point is that the Mendeleevs could settle down in the room, feel at home and stay here as long as necessary. But this house was not just an ordinary residence of an ordinary official, Vasily Dmitrievich was a man of culture, so literary and theatrical Moscow often gathered in the dresser house. Once upon a time, young Pushkin also visited here, but during the Mendeleevs' residence here, Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol himself sometimes appeared in the house on Pokrovka . Dmitry Ivanovich saw the great writer and for the rest of his life he remembered this image of a thoughtful creator, sitting a little away from everyone. If we asked the adult Mendeleev who is the greatest writer of all time, he would answer without thinking for a second... Gogol. So strong were the memories of him, which were later superimposed on the reading of his works. But as for the main task, the appointment of Mitriy Ivanovich to Moscow University, the matter did not work out. The problem is that, according to the rules that existed at that time, gymnasium students could only enter the university of their educational district, and for graduates of the Tobolsk gymnasium it was a university in Kazan. As a result, the doors of the Moscow Imperial University were closed to Mendeleev , and neither persuasion nor even Vasily Dmitrievich's connections helped. Kornilyev assured his sister that don't worry, mother, I'll get Mitka a job in the governor's office and no education will be needed at all. But the mother, not wanting to send her son to the ranks of narrow-minded officials, insisted that no, let him study. So, after six months of staying in Moscow, she used her last savings to move her son and daughter to St. Petersburg, and decided to try her luck there. St. Petersburg... The great capital of the Russian Empire... You walk along these narrow streets and you just feel the atmosphere of history... and just a little humidity in the air. Well, okay, let's get back to business, in the spring of 1950 the Mendeleevs arrived in the capital and needless to say that exactly the same thing happened to St. Petersburg University as to Moscow University? The admissions committee pointed Mendeleev to Kazan University in the same way and denied enrollment. By the way, there is a myth that Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev was not accepted into the university twice because the future great chemist twice failed the entrance exams... you won't believe it... in chemistry. But here the evil rumor played a role, because firstly, I hope you understood the true reason for the refusal of admission, and secondly, it was as if there were no entrance exams in chemistry. Applicants took Latin, physics and mathematics. Chemistry was not included in this circle, so it is difficult to fail admission to university by taking an exam for a subject that is not actually on the exam. It seems logical... Isn't it? In any case, having received a refusal, Maria Dmitrievna did not intend to exchange provincial Tobolsk for no less provincial Kazan for Mitya. So it was decided to send my son to the Medical-Surgical Academy, the second most prestigious educational institution in the imperial capital, and it is this one that is now behind me. There were no such restrictions on educational districts, and our hero had every chance of success. However, before admission, applicants had to pass a test in the anatomical theater at the academy, but bad luck, at the sight of the corpse, Mitriy Ivanovich felt ill. It is not entirely clear whether it was simply disgust, nausea, or, as some sources report, fainting, but the result alone was that Mendeleev immediately realized that a medical career was not for him. But even this is not the end of the options; this is still the capital. As a result of the family council, it was decided to follow in his father's footsteps and enter the same pedagogical institute where Ivan Pavlovich once studied and get an education... there. No restrictions on districts, background or age, just take the entrance exam and you're welcome. True, this was not without problems. The pedagogical institute admitted students once every two years, and in 1850 there was no admission, which means either wait until next year, but there was no money for this, or I'm looking for something else. But suddenly the situation was resolved by a letter of recommendation from one of the professors, who remembered the name Mendeleev because he had once studied here with Ivan Pavlovich. In general, on May 1, 1950, Dmitry Ivanovich submitted a petition and passed the entrance tests, and he passed the hated Latin with a straight A, but, oddly enough, he passed his favorite physics with a C. But this was enough, and on August 9 of the same year, the Minister of Education approved the decision of the admissions committee and Dmitry Ivanovich became a student. The job was done, maternal duty fulfilled. Maria Dmitrievna gave her son a new life and a great future, and she did not even suspect how big. And one can only be amazed at how quickly her strength faded after that. Unable to fight even an occasional cold, she died a month and a half later on September 20, 1850. She left a parting message for her son: I bless you, Mitenka! You were the main hope of my entire old age. I forgive you all your mistakes and pray: insist on work, not words. Farewell and remember the mother who loved you more than anyone. Exactly a year and a half later, sister Lizonka died of transient tuberculosis and the sixteen-year-old young student was left completely alone in St. Petersburg. At the same time, my uncle, my mother's brother Vasily Dmitrievich, also died in Moscow, so now there was nowhere to wait for help and support. Now Dmitry Mendeleev could rely only on himself, and independently pave the way into the unknown. The future great scientist finally embarked on the path of big science. Feeling this level of responsibility now only to himself, Dmitry Ivanovich thoroughly took up his studies and not a trace remained of his former sloppiness. If in the first year of study he was twenty-fifth out of twenty-seven of his fellow students, then a year later he was already seventh, and a year later he was already spoken of as one of the most outstanding students of the pedagogical institute. But there was one interesting detail that we missed. All students admitted to the pedagogical institute were required to write a receipt, according to which they would be required to work as an assigned teacher for at least two years for each year of study at the institute. This surprised Dmitry Ivanovich, but not even by the fact that he would not be able to choose a place of work, but by the very fact of writing the receipt. "In all the sixteen years that I have lived, I have not given any receipts to anyone. And then they forced me to write the entire receipt myself. It was somehow flattering to feel like I was deciding my own destiny, and it made me think more than once about what awaits each of us." And these reflections greatly influenced Mendeleev's successes: biographers are amazed at how quickly the high school student Mitka, whom teachers dragged from class to class, turned into a hard-working and purposeful student Dmitry Ivanovich. Very quickly, all this went beyond simple study into something more, into an unbridled thirst for knowledge and hard work, which, coupled with the harsh St. Petersburg climate, greatly affected the health of the body, which was not yet strengthened. On one of his free evenings, when Mendeleev headed to the theater in the company of his fellow students, a most interesting performance awaited him. A young Italian singer performed, whose name Dmitry Ivanovich unfortunately forgot, but he did not forget how pretty she was. A lovely voice, a slender figure, a luxurious hairstyle. At the end of the performance, the hall exploded with a thunderous ovation, and the male part of the audience fervently called for the Italian beauty to return to the stage and perform an encore number. Among those calling was, of course, Dmitry Ivanovich, and he shouted so loudly that at one moment his throat constricted and he coughed loudly and deeply, the attack was so strong that his eyes went dark. And when he felt a little better, Dmitry looked at the handkerchief with which he covered his mouth while coughing, and saw with horror that the handkerchief... was... covered in blood. This was an ominous sign of tuberculosis, from which, as we remember, both our hero's father and, more recently, sister Lisa died. And once hemoptysis appears, it means the disease has been progressing for a long time and most likely there is little that can be done. Dmitry Ivanovich hurried to the institute infirmary, and the doctor there, Krembel, hearing about his father and my sister was immediately diagnosed with Tuberculosis, here it was even possible not to listen to the lungs. Mendeleev was assigned to the ward of student Betling, also a tuberculosis patient, and the painful countdown of days began for the two doomed patients. Once after a round, the doctor, being sure that Mendeleev and Betling were sleeping, told the nurse "well, these two won't get up," and to the horror of Dmitry Ivanovich, a couple of days later Betling died. But Dmitry Ivanovich, instead of indulging in gloomy thoughts and burying himself ahead of schedule, decided to continue his studies right in the ward as long as he had the strength. Agree that it is better to spend time reading books than counting the minutes until your own death. And then one day Mendeleev turned to the Krembel for permission to leave the infirmary for a while to take another exam. The doctor, of course, was surprised that you didn't care anymore , darling, but he gave permission. Mendeleev somehow pulled on his ceremonial uniform and, overcoming his weakness, slowly walked into the audience. Despite everything, he passed the exam brilliantly, and as soon as he turned around and slowly hobbled back to the infirmary, his comrades, admiring his diligence, rose from their seats and gave him a deafening ovation ... the first in his life. This in turn attracted the attention of the institute's management. They asked the Krembel for a report on Mendeleev's condition, and based on his forecasts and recommendations, they sent a petition to the Minister of Public Education to transfer Dmitry Ivanovich to a university in Kiev - the climate there would be milder, no matter what. But as if some biographers did not talk about how Mendeleev gathered his strength into a fist and threateningly refused to leave the capital, we do not know how the petition ended; no documents on this matter were preserved in Dmitry Ivanovich's archive . We only know that Mendeleev remained in St. Petersburg and, overcoming his illness, continued to study. One can only envy the strength of his character, because until the end of his studies at the institute, he ran between the tuberculosis ward and classrooms, ready for the fact that any day he could fall ill completely and fade away forever. But the thirst for life lifted him from the hospital bed every time and pushed him forward. And Dmitry Ivanovich's ardent interest in science did not go unnoticed in the eyes of the teachers. They saw this passion in his eyes, the widest range of interests and helped him with all their might. And when I talk about a wide range of interests, I'm talking about such a huge range of topics that if we start bending our fingers in listing them, then we simply won't have enough hands. Just look at this variety: Description of Tobolsk in historical terms, Chemical analysis of the mineral orthite, About the influence of heat on the distribution of animals, About the physical education of children, you haven't forgotten that the institute is a pedagogical one? Further, a description of the rodents of the St. Petersburg province, inorganic analysis of umber, On fossil plants, Crystallographic analysis of Pyroxene, On school education in China and so on, thesis work Isomorphism of crystalline forms in relation to composition. We will highlight one work separately: on the chemical analysis of the mineral orthite brought from Finland . Dmitry Ivanovich wrote this work under the guidance of, as he is called, the grandfather of Russian chemistry, Alexander Abramovich Voskresensky. The fact is that the work was so remarkable, and the analysis itself was so outstanding, according to reviews, that even this study was published separately in the journal of the Mineralogical Society, and in German . And this, in general, is the first printed publication in the huge list of Mendeleev's scientific works. We will talk separately about isomorphism later, but that will come later. Now we have come to 1855, when in May Dmitry Ivanovich had to take a final exam on the topic of this very isomorphism. Five years of hard work and the fight against the disease were not in vain, and Mendeleev brilliantly demonstrated this at an open speech. Not only teachers and students gathered in the assembly hall , but also students junior students from different faculties, academicians, generals. We can judge the success of Mendeleev's report from a letter to the director of the institute from Academician Yuli Fedorovich Fritzsche, a well-known specialist in organic chemistry, in which we see the following lines: "I listened with pleasure to student Mendeleev's explanation of chemistry issues. Having made sure that this young man has a complete knowledge of chemistry, and is very well acquainted with even the newest direction of this science, I consider it my duty to humbly ask Your Excellency to assist in ensuring that Mr. Mendeleev, when appointed to the service, has the opportunity to further improve in chemistry." And such an opportunity for Dmitry Ivanovich was given. The director obtained permission for several of the most excellent graduates to remain at the institute for another year to improve in the sciences and prepare for the master's exam, and only after that begin the assignment service according to that same receipt. And of course this also applied to Mendeleev, who was awarded a graduate gold medal for his successes. But fate decreed otherwise. By that time, Dmitry Ivanovich's illness had progressed so much that the doctors had great fears for his life, and Mendeleev begged the leadership to assign him to serve somewhere in the south, where in a warm, pleasant climate he could at least recover a little and prepare to defend his title master's degree Dmitry's choice fell on Odessa, because the Richelieu Lyceum there was a worthy place for service and further advancement in chemical research, but then a fatal accident intervened. The distributor in the ministry mixed up the papers of Mendeleev and his student friend Yankevich, and sent Yankevich to Odessa, and Mendeleev to the Crimea, Simferopol, which at that moment was still a very remote outback. Such a mistake simply infuriated Dmitry Ivanovich, because he did not intend to go to provincial Crimea, which was at that moment engulfed in the war with the Turks, and Yankevich himself did not plan to go to any Odessa. Mendeleev went straight to the ministry and created a wild scandal there. What the hell is Simferopol? I need to go to Odessa, to Odessa. Turn everything back, make it up, you know... As Dmitry Ivanovich later wrote, even now I'm not one of the quiet ones, but then I was in general boiling water. In general, the next day the Minister of Public Education demanded to see both Mendeleev and the director of the department responsible for this mistake. He yelled at both, forced them to make up and kiss, but left the distribution unchanged. So our hero had to go to the Crimean peninsula. The war with the Turks, which was called the "Turkish" and later the "Crimean War," was difficult for the Russian empire . Caravans with supplies and shells overtook Mendeleev's carriage, and only numerous carts with wounded soldiers rushed towards them. Simferopl was not at the epicenter of the battles, but almost the entire town turned into one large hospital. In the same way, the gymnasium where Mendeleev was assigned to serve was converted into a hospital, so it did not perform its main functions and our hero simply sat idle. But it was not by chance that fate threw Dmitry Ivanovich to these lands. Although there were no professional prospects here , there was the famous surgeon Nikolai Ivanovich Pirogov, to whom Mendeleev had a referral from the capital's life physician. After all, although the disease has weakened its grip against the backdrop of a pleasant climate, it still has not gone away. And the outstanding master of medical art, Ivan Pirogov, did more for the terminally ill tuberculosis man Mendeleev than anyone else; he actually brought him back to life, and not even through some ingenious treatment methods or secret potions. He simply listened carefully to Dmitry Ivanovich's lungs and stated that Mendeleev did not and never had any tuberculosis, and the fact that hemoptysis appeared, well, all the singers there should shout less. Go, my dear, you will outlive us all. As a result, Dmitry Ivanovich was diagnosed with a not so dangerous heart valve defect, which, if a number of Pirogov's recommendations were followed, would not prevent him from living to a ripe old age, which... let's get ahead of ourselves... and what happened. And it seemed to breathe new life into our hero. Of course , these words alone did not make his health problems go away, and Dmitry Ivanovich, in general, coughed all his life, but he finally got rid of this oppressive feeling of doom and could look optimistically into his future, and not overcome an illness that would have killed him. still won. From that moment on, Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev was fired up with an even greater passion for science, which would very soon lead him to worldwide fame CHAPTER 2: TALENT HAS MORE MERIT After this, if I may say so, healing, Dmitry Ivanovich's affairs seemed to go uphill. Literally immediately after visiting the famous doctor, Mendeleev received a letter from Yankevich, the same student with whom our hero was confused when assigned to Simferopol. Yankevich wrote that after much effort he finally obtained permission to stay in St. Petersburg, which means the place at the Odessa Lyceum remains free and Dmitry Ivanovich can take it if he wants. But Dmitry Ivanovich wants and already in October 55 he arrives in Odessa and receives the position of senior teacher of mathematics at the Richelieu Lyceum. Immediately upon arrival, he sits down to write his master's thesis "Specific volumes", and already six months later, in the spring of 56, he again breaks into capital. On May 31, he passed the master's exam, on September 9, he brilliantly defended his dissertation and received the title of Master of Chemical Sciences, and on January 9, 1957, at the request of the university council, 23-year-old Dmitry Ivanovich was transferred to serve at the main metropolitan university with the rank of private assistant professor. Department of Chemistry. And this is the same university that did not want to accept him to study. Just some kind of lightning takeoff. Now he could lecture and work in a university laboratory, and most importantly, this appointment freed him from obligations under the receipt. It turned out funny: Dmitry Ivanovich was supposed to work as a provincial teacher for eight years, but in total he did not spend even a year in Crimea and Odessa. This is determination multiplied by the desire to live. True, from the point of view of support, the position of private assistant professor is not the most paid job. He did not have any fixed salary - depending on the financial condition of the university, the management could pay 300 - 400 rubles a year, or they could pay nothing at all. This was how it would turn out, so he had to do some extra work on the side, for example, write articles for the magazine of the Ministry of Education. But the main thing for Mendeleev was not his current earnings, but his prospects... and the young private assistant professor very quickly felt how many doors could now open for him. With the death of Emperor Nicholas I and the end of the Crimean War, the restrictions he had established on traveling abroad turned into a pumpkin , so Dmitry Ivanovich really hoped for a business trip abroad for... as it was called then... improvements in the sciences. But while he was an Odessa teacher, how - it didn't work out all the time, but now he wasn't some newbie, even if he was an excellent student, now he's wow! Practically an accomplished chemist. So the question of a two-year business trip to Europe was resolved instantly. The German city of Heidelberg was chosen as the most suitable place for improvement in the sciences for a number of reasons. First and foremost, Heidelberg was famous for its university and local chemists. It was here in 1859 that spectral analysis was invented by Gustav Kirchhoff and Robert Bunsen, thanks to which discoveries of new chemical elements began to pour in like a cornucopia. Secondly... well, just look at the map, Heidelberg had a very convenient geographical location, almost in the very center of Europe. From here you can It was as quickly as possible to get to France and Switzerland, and of course to all the major German cities. This leads to our third point: this location of the city attracted a huge number of travelers, including from the Russian Empire, so that by the time Mendeleev went on a business trip, there was already a populous and diverse Russian-speaking community there. In general, on April 14, 1959, Mendeleev bought a ticket for a postal stagecoach going to Warsaw and set off . From Warsaw, take a leisurely train through Krakow, Dresden, Leipzig and Frankfurt and end up in Heidelberg a month later. Robert Bunsen, who also worked at the local university, welcomes his Russian colleague with open arms , helps him with rent and provides Mendeleev with a workplace in his laboratory. True, Dmitry Ivanovich very quickly realized that he did not quite like the role of a spectrometerist, so for research that was interesting to him, he organized a laboratory right in his apartment . Mendeleev was primarily interested in the classification of chemical elements and the methodology for determining their properties. And the result of these searches in Heidelberg was the discovery by Dmitry Ivanovich of what he called the absolute boiling temperature . He established that any liquid has a temperature upon reaching which this liquid passes into a gaseous state, that is, turns into steam. And it would seem that there is nothing surprising in this, but look at the trick: even before the liquid reaches the boiling point, we can convert it into steam by reducing the pressure, and what is characteristic is that by increasing the pressure back we can carry out the reverse transformation from steam to liquid. But the main feature that Mendeleev defined is that if the temperature of the vapor exceeds this very absolute boiling point, then no matter how we change the pressure, no matter how we compress this vapor, we would not be able to achieve the reverse transition into liquid. That is, even with the highest pressure, we will not be able to convert steam into liquid if the temperature of this steam is higher than the absolute boiling point, and each liquid substance has its own temperature. This is an important discovery, which, however, was not further developed by Dmitry Ivanovich. But ten years later, the Irish chemist Thomas Andrews, please note, independently came to the same conclusions , who called this temperature indicator the critical point, and it was under this name that the absolute boiling point entered history. Another important episode from this trip was Dmitry Ivanovich's participation in the first international chemical congress. The event in the German town with the romantic name of Karlsruhe, at first seemed like some kind of small-town corporate event for several chemists, but in fact, by September 3, 1860, it turned into a large congress of almost one and a half hundred chemists from various countries. Among them there was a place for Mendeleev and two comrades, and the main topic of the congress was the standardization of chemical concepts and definitions. At that time, there was no unity among chemists in the use of terms and designations; there was some wild confusion even in such basic concepts as molecule and atom. And so the congress introduced systematicity into basic chemical concepts. In general, when it comes to traveling around European cities, Mendeleev was certainly not one of those who sit still. Of the 22 months of his overseas assignment, he spent almost six traveling. I have been to Paris several times, traveled to Switzerland and Italy, and visited German cities more than once. But it cannot be said that all this was purely for business. Yes, very often these were trips to purchase some kind of chemical equipment or make acquaintances with prominent scientists, but often these were just tourist excursions with friends. Mendeleev did not deny himself such pleasure abroad. He did not deny himself communication with his fair half. humanity, if you know what I mean. Of course, this is not about the fact that Mendeleev was some kind of reveler running after every skirt, but later, after returning to St. Petersburg, he wrote the following lines in one letter : "When I lived abroad, I had an affair, and from her a fruit for which we had to pay." We are talking about Dmitry Ivanovich's romance with the provincial German actress Agnes Voigtman, and that same "fruit" is... a daughter who was born shortly after their meetings. Mendeleev was not sure that his daughter was his, but nevertheless regularly sent her money for maintenance until the girl grew up and got married. Yes, Dmitry Ivanovich has done a lot of things... but to his credit, we note that he did not shirk responsibility. At the same time, in St. Petersburg, Mendeleev's leadership was growing dissatisfied. Dmitry Ivanovich did not live up to the highest expectations placed on him. Experiments with boiling point are all very interesting, of course, but this can be done at home. All this does not justify the costs that the ministry suffers and Voskresensky delicately hinted that, dear Dmitry Ivanovich, you still have a whole year ahead of you and during this time a whole bunch of work can be done. But this very heap did not follow, Mendeleev was so stuck on the issues of classification of elements and a year later he was recalled back to St. Petersburg. On February 6, 1961, friends gave Mendeleev a farewell, and the next day a train rushed our hero towards his homeland. Dmitry Ivanovich returned from abroad with a bunch of debts and, as we remember, if I may say so, alimony. The financial situation was quite difficult, but even worse, there was little work - he returned in February, so it was extremely difficult to get in as a teacher in the middle of the school year . At first, Voskresensky again helped him out, who gave him his position as a teacher in the corps of railway engineers messages, later our associate professor intervened with lectures on chemistry and physics in several more places and gradually his situation began to improve, but Mendeleev's decision to write a textbook on organic chemistry became fateful. While teaching this area, he was faced with the fact that in Russian there are not so much normal teaching aids, but none at all. And if you want to do something well, do it yourself, and without hesitation, ten days after arriving from abroad, Dmitry Ivanovich sat down to write the manuscript. The first Russian textbook on organic chemistry was published on June 18 and sold out so quickly that a second edition had to be published a year later. Organic chemistry became a reference book for students and was extremely popular among young chemists. As a result, in the spring of 1862, this work, or rather its author, Dmitry Mendeleev, was awarded the full Demidov Prize, which is awarded for writing works in Russian in the field of human knowledge or applying them to everyday needs. I would say a decent amount for those times was 1,428 rubles, this allowed me to pay off all my debts and even save a small amount for future use. Well, since the financial situation had improved, now one could be puzzled by the family situation, and here one of Dmitry Ivanovich's older sisters , Olga, played a huge role. She was twenty years older than Dmitry and lived in Siberia while married to a Decembrist. But after a general amnesty for the Decembrists from Alexander II, Olga's family was able to move to St. Petersburg, where brother and sister reunite and begin to look out for each other. Well... okay... for the most part, the older Olga looks after the younger Dmitry. And so Olga Ivanovna decided to accommodate her younger brother, and introduced him to her friend Feozva Nikitichna Lesheva. At first, this communication was exclusively friendly, after all, Feozva Nikitichna was six years older than Mendeleev, although she did not look her age. And so Dmitry Ivanovich went to Europe, published Organic Chemistry and was preparing to exchange his third decade, but no he absolutely did not take any action to win his girlfriend's heart . As a result, the sister had to intervene, destroy, so to speak, the barrier of the friend zone and quickly match Dmitry and Feozva. In his diary, our hero wrote that Fiza began to captivate him. And, honestly , it would be a good wife. So, through the efforts of his sister, on March 10, 62, Dmitry Ivanovich proposed to his Fiza. But then problems began. Immediately after the engagement, the grooms were overcome by doubts. Feozva Nikitishna was embarrassed by the fiance's hot temper and tough temperament, they say, how am I even going to live with him? But over time, she decided that she would remake him with her love, not yet realizing the naivety of these plans. Dmitry Ivanovich was worried that the more he got to know his future wife, the more he realized that he did not experience the feelings that the groom should have. But again Olga Ivanovna intervened and insisted that you are engaged, declared the groom, what position will she be in if you now refuse? Well, in general, at the end of April 1962, the newlyweds walked down the aisle and Feozva Nikitishna, whose maiden name was Leshcheva, became Mendeleeva. Using the remains of the Demidov Prize, the young couple went on a honeymoon trip to Europe and immediately after returning, Dmitry Ivanovich came across an interesting job; his longtime friend Professor Skoblikov became seriously ill and asked Mendeleev to take over his work, for which they had to pay decently, and this work consisted in translation and editing Technology according to Wagner And before you have time to make any associations, I'll immediately explain, Technology according to Wagner is a textbook or rather even an encyclopedia, which it was decided to translate from German into Russian and publish in St. Petersburg. For such proofreading, a knowledgeable chemist was needed, and Skoblikov, forced to go abroad for treatment, without hesitation, wrote to Mendeleev. He agreed and spent the next year and a half translating the first three volumes. Production of flour, bread and starch; Sugar production and the last and perhaps most interesting production of wine, beer, alcohol and alcohol measurement In 63, the work was completed, and in fact it was a concentrated collection of applied scientific information relating to the identified topics. The work was carried out brilliantly, which brought Mendeleev the reputation of a knowledgeable chemical technologist and served as the reason for his candidacy for the post of extraordinary professor at the main St. Petersburg university. However, the then Minister of Education did not give consent, under the pretext that Mendeleev was not even a doctor of science, but here he immediately became a professor. No, let him write his doctoral dissertation, and then we'll see. Well, "challenge accepted," said Dmitry Ivanovich, and sat down to write a thesis, besides, the topic for the doctoral dissertation was literally in the air and... floating in the liver. Yes, you probably realized that I'm bringing us to one of the most famous legends about Mendeleev - the invention of the standard... forty-degree... vodka... they say Dmitry Ivanovich himself was a big drinker and decided to invent the ideal swill so that it would get through properly. Moreover, by secret decree of the Ministry of Finance, he was engaged in counterfeiting expensive French wines. But instead of an epic revelation, let me just tell you in order how it all happened, and in the course of the story we ourselves will see somewhere in there the invention of vodka. As I already said, Mendeleev noticed the topic of his dissertation while working on Wagner's Technology in the section on alcohol production and alcohol testing. After all, mixing alcohol with water is an excellent object for studying unstable compositions. You see, what's special is that if we mix half a liter of alcohol and half a liter of water, we won't get a liter of solution. When mixing two liquids, heat will be generated and the volume will decrease, so that we get a little less than a liter. But what is the reason for this compression? By what principles does this happen? At what proportions will the compression be greatest? It was these features of alcohol solutions that interested Dmitry Ivanovich, and he would sit down to write his dissertation for a year and a half "discussion about the combination of alcohol with water" At the government warehouse, he received 15 buckets of not the highest quality alcohol, so to speak, and the first thing he did was clear them of excess impurities. After numerous distillations and passing through quicklime, I brought the purity of this alcohol from 71 percent to 99, which was already a rather difficult task, at least for those times. After this, Dmitry Ivanovich began experiments on mixing, using mainly pycnometers, that is, instruments for determining density. And in the end I found that the greatest compression of the mixture occurs when for every molecule of alcohol there are three molecules of water. That is, with a ratio of 45 point 88 hundredths of alcohol and 54 point 12 hundredths of water. As Dmitry Ivanovich wrote, the maximum possible compression with such proportions cannot be described except by the formation of a more durable compound than all others. That is, as you can see, Mendeleev was looking for ways to determine volume, purify alcohol from impurities and, most importantly, create an alcohol solution of the highest density, and not make the most delicious or addictive drink. In addition, in all 119 pages of the dissertation he published in 1865, Mendeleev never once touched upon the issue of using these solutions internally. Literally not a single word. Moreover, with such proportions, the strength of the solution is equal to 51 degrees, which is not very similar to that very standard vodka. But where did the myth come from then, you ask me? The fact is that a year after this publication, the Ministry of Finance approved the standard for alcohol products, where the standard of 40 degrees was listed, and Dmitry Ivanovich had nothing to do with it, just two events close in date. The only connection is that some of the developments from Mendeleev's doctoral work began to be used in alcohol production, mainly what concerned the purification of alcohol from impurities. And... that's it. As a result, the myth about the invention of the famous Russian vodka turned out to be nothing, and the fact that Dmitry Ivanovich himself was a big fan of his invention is again a bummer; of all the alcoholic products, he could drink a little wine at dinner, and not in the largest quantities. But let's get back to serious questions. At the beginning of 65, Dmitry Ivanovich, who had just turned 31 , brilliantly defended his dissertation and was approved as an extraordinary professor at the department of technical chemistry of the main imperial university. So, in 10 years, our hero paved his career path from teacher to professor, and this finally resolved all the financial issues of the Mendeleev family - such a position guaranteed a solid income. Our hero's career at this stage can be called established, but... not his personal life. While work on the dissertation was in full swing, several very important events happened in Mendeleev's life. In March 1963, Feozva Nikitichna gave birth to her first daughter Mashenka, and Dmitry Ivanovich was in seventh heaven, but alas, not for long, six months later the constantly ill girl died. A year later, the Mendeleevs went to an Austrian sanatorium, where they learned that Fiza was again pregnant and on January 14, 1865, an absolutely healthy and strong Volodya Mendeleev was born. And a little later, three years later, and daughter Olenka, but we're getting ahead of ourselves. 65... The time has come to think about the family residence, and very soon fate gave such a chance to our hero. That summer, Dmitry Ivanovich was traveling by train to Moscow for the All-Russian Industrial Exhibition. Having talked with a random fellow traveler, he shared his plans for purchasing some modest country housing, and the fellow traveler told him that in the Moscow region not far from the city of Klin, the Boblovo estate had recently been put up for sale and it seemed like a tempting offer. The thing is that just four years ago, Emperor Alexander II, with his famous manifesto, proclaimed the abolition of serfdom in the Russian Empire, and although not everything was so simple there, many private estates sharply lost profitability and fell in price. The same story happened with the Boblovo estate: the owner was unable to maintain it without forced serf labor and put the estate up for sale for a modest 16 thousand rubles. Of course, one can argue that at that time this was a very large sum, but we are actually talking about a country estate in the Moscow region. Imagine how many zeros would be added to this amount now. In general, Mendeleev became interested, and on the way back from Moscow he went to Klin and went to inspect the estate. It was a one-story manor house, wooden and already quite dilapidated, as well as strong stone outbuildings in the courtyard. It's modest, but how beautiful, picturesque and cozy it was here... well, at least Dmitry Ivanovich liked it and was inspired by the idea of purchasing an estate. But alas, he did not have such a sum at his disposal and soon persuaded his long-time friend Professor Ilyin to jointly buy the estate and the accompanying 800 hectares of land, and he also paid his share in installments. One way or another, in the summer of 66, the Mendeleevs moved into the manor house, leaving Ilyin with stone outbuildings; this distribution fell out when the gentlemen cast lots. Well, in general, from that moment on, the Mendeleevs spent almost every summer in Boblovo, it turned out to be something like a summer residence. A few years later, the wooden house was dismantled due to its disrepair and Dmitry Ivanovich built a new stone house with a high roof and a belvedere with balconies, that is, a superstructure over the first floor. The head of the family lived upstairs with books, instruments and tools, and the family, servants, nannies and guests of the estate were accommodated in six rooms on the ground floor. Soon stables and a barnyard were built nearby , a farm was established, and the field was improved. Here, for several years, Dmitry Ivanovich was engaged in agrochemistry, in other words, mineralogy used in agriculture, that is, the study of fertilizers. The fact is that at that time in Russia the means developed by the German chemist Eustace von Liebig, the father of world agricultural chemistry, were widely used. And everything would be fine, but the surprise of the soil of Western Europe and the soil of central Russia is that they are not the same thing, and Liebig's methods did not always work in our area. Dmitry Ivanovich began analyzing different types of soils and ways to saturate them with the minerals necessary for agriculture ; he was looking for something different from the good old way of covering the entire field with manure and waiting for a miracle. And... it is worth noting that in just a couple of years he achieved noticeable success: the yield in his fields increased more than three times. Local men, looking at this, puzzled, scratched their heads and lamented those times, Mitriy Ivanovich, tell me what's the secret? lucky, or some kind of talent, and Mitry Ivanovich proudly answered, gentlemen, what kind of luck, excuse me? There is more merit in talent! Sometimes our master, who by the way forbade calling himself that, took a break from work and went with the children to the forest to pick mushrooms or take a walk along the river, sometimes he started a game of croquet and could get so carried away that he had to finish the game by the light of a lantern. But alas, despite all his desire to stay in Boblovo for a long time, Mendeleev could not; work, after all, was waiting for him in the capital. Every autumn it was necessary to return to St. Petersburg, and for the convenience of the extraordinary professor's work there, we also had to worry about making arrangements. On November 24, 1866, that is, the year the estate was purchased, Dmitry Ivanovich was also allocated a government apartment at the St. Petersburg University. An extensive living room, a hall, a dining room, a bedroom and an office, children's rooms, a room for teachers and servants, a kitchen and a pantry, spacious, albeit modestly furnished housing, and in order to come to his lectures, the professor did not even have to put on outerwear, The apartment, as I said, was at the university. It was here that Mendeleev would work for the next quarter of a century, and it was here that he would make that discovery that will glorify him throughout the world. CHAPTER 3: BONDED BY LAW INSIDE Tea and tobacco... these are the real weaknesses of Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev. When the maid brought breakfast to the office in the morning, on the tray there had to be a small glass of hot milk and a huge cup of sweet and very strong tea, always full to the brim, because while working, the owner, having lost track of time, could drink cooled tea. For breakfast, either steak with pasta, or potatoes with cutlets, modest but satisfying. The professor had breakfast right in his office and either immersed himself in work that had not been completed since the night, or put on a jacket and went to lecture to students. At dinner the whole family gathered together; Dmitry Ivanovich did not like to waste time waiting and came to the dining room when the fish soup or broth was already on the table. He entered the room, kissed the children and sat down at the head of the table opposite Feozva Nikitichna. They dined in silence, because the collected head of the family, all in his thoughts, did not like idle chatter, so even the children became quiet. After the second course, the owner said apologetically, "Well... I'll go to my place," and, taking another mug of tea, headed to the office. Mendeleev's tea was special and enjoyed a certain fame. He ordered it directly from China and always ordered it with a large supply for several years in advance. When a package of several bags was delivered to the apartment, the whole family began sorting and packing. Fiza laid tablecloths on the floor, onto which the contents of the bags were poured, after which everyone mixed the leaves together and packed them into large glass bottles, as quickly as possible so as not to run out of steam. While working in the office, the mug practically never disappeared from under Dmitry Ivanovich's left hand, and every guest, be it a minister or a student, was certainly treated to a freshly brewed mug. Professor Mendeleev himself did not recognize any other tea and never drank someone else's tea when visiting . There was a similar situation with tobacco. It was also ordered several years in advance and was also of the highest quality. Dmitry Ivanovich rolled thick cigarettes for himself, which always left a burnt brown mark on his fingers, and immediately offered a treat to every guest who came on business or on a friendly visit. Well, that's right, what was not enough was for the visitor to take out his cigarettes filled with something unknown and stink of cheap tobacco throughout the apartment. Dmitry Ivanovich could not stand the smell of other people's tobacco. Dmitry Ivanovich used to tell him, don't protect yourself from nicotine. They say that you are a scientist and you know what harm he can do, but Mendeleev laughs and says, "Yes, these scientists of yours are lying!" I passed tobacco smoke through a cotton swab containing germs, and you know, it kills many of them. You see - there are benefits! And look at me! I indulge in cigarettes, but I don't feel like I'm becoming stupid or losing my health. And of course it sounds ironic, from a man who ten years ago was going to die from tuberculosis, well... that was Dmitry Ivanovich's weakness. As for Dmitry Ivanovich's appearance, then... well, in general, you can see everything for yourself. Exquisite care for one's appearance was never Mendeleev's strong point. A neatly trimmed beard? elegantly styled hair? What are you talking about? Forget it, there are more important things to do. The same applied to the wardrobe, always as modest as possible and sometimes a little sloppy. The tailor came once a season and always heard "Eh, my friend, sew as before." It happened that Dmitry Ivanovich would stay up late at work, go to bed in his clothes, and in the morning, just getting up, he would simply throw on his jacket, barely wash himself, and run to his lectures. He always chose the morning for teaching so that after lunch he could immerse himself in scientific work again. The students were gathering in the classroom, waiting for the slightly late professor, and now he, disheveled, enters the hall, hastily rises behind the podium and confusedly begins, "So where did we stop just now?" oh yes..." and the students begin their immersion in chemical science. Dmitry Ivanovich lectured intensely but lively; he asked students very strictly, but always fairly. If you have a stupid question, then the answer will most likely be correct , so it's better to think carefully about it first. After the main lecture, I always took some time to sit in the preparation room and chat with colleagues or laboratory assistants. They shared news, told all sorts of university or laboratory stories, and discussed city and home affairs. Returning home for dinner, Dmitry Ivanovich retired to his office and worked until five o'clock, then took a short walk, sometimes with the children, and in order not to wander around empty and idle, he was sure to buy them some sweets. Upon returning home, everyone had dinner together, rested a little in the family circle, after which Dmitry Ivanovich again went to his office and worked there until late at night. In the morning the schedule was repeated and so on day after day. And it was in such an atmosphere that Dmitry Ivanovich created the work of his whole life, the work that he called the main reason for his scientific fame, the work that led him to the creation of the periodic table of chemical elements. The reasons that prompted me to take up this work may seem quite simple, they say, when Professor Mendeleev began reading a course of lectures on inorganic chemistry, he noticed that students were poorly absorbing the material, mainly because there was no normal textbook, not just in Russian, but in general none. And so, while developing a textbook on inorganic chemistry, which he simply called the fundamentals of chemistry, Dmitry Ivanovich , he discovered the periodic law. Moreover, only the deaf had not heard the story of how this table appeared to Mendeleev in a dream and became, one might say, an accidental discovery that happened overnight. Looking ahead, we can say that Dmitry Ivanovich himself had a hand in the birth of this myth, which he managed to regret during his lifetime. But let's take it in order, chemistry at that time was still a fairly young science, at least when compared with astronomy and mathematics, because just a hundred years before the birth of Mendeleev, researchers were still alive who were seriously looking for the philosopher's stone, that is, a method for transforming base metals into gold, in other words, they were engaged in that very mystical alchemy. But by the beginning of the 19th century, after the discovery of alkali metals, Faraday's laws, the creation of the atomic-molecular theory, Avogadro's law and a whole series of other discoveries, all these occult alchemical things quickly became marginal. The beginnings of a serious theory of the chemical structure of matter appeared, and the concept of atomism was shaking off the last patina of antiquity. With the development of optics and photography, with the discovery of spectral analysis, chemists around the world discovered more and more new chemical elements, improved methods for studying their properties and the compounds formed by them. And as most often happens in science, first comes the collection of information and accumulation of data, and then the analysis and systematization of the accumulated information. And by the middle of the 19th century, chemists discovered several dozen very different elements, and... very cool, of course, but almost immediately it was established that many chemical elements, different in external physical properties, at the same time are very similar in chemical properties, and sometimes even are identical. They were somehow connected with each other, in all this mess there was clearly some kind of systematicity. But which one? What unites chemical elements? The first step in the search for this systematicity was isomorphism , a phenomenon discovered in 1820 by the German chemist Eilhard Mitscherlich. This is the phenomenon in which crystalline forms produced by elements and previously thought to be unique to each individual, like snowflakes, can in fact sometimes be very similar if not to say identical. That is, the same or very similar crystalline forms can be characteristic of substances of far different compositions. Which clearly indicated some relatedness between elements that at first glance were not related in any way. It's already warmer, but still not enough to reveal the essence and reasons for the similarities. One of the defining steps was that they learned to determine very specific physical properties of elements: atomic mass and the ability of these same atoms to bind with other substances, what we call valence. And then the first attempts to classify elements according to very specific physical properties appeared . For example, we know Johann Dobereiner, who discovered a method for grouping elements into so-called triads, that is, separate families of three elements, the atomic masses of which were in arithmetic proportion. That is, the atomic mass of the middle member of the family was always , or almost always, equal to the arithmetic mean of the atomic masses of the two outermost elements. Beautiful? Beautiful! But this, again, did not give global answers, but only confirmed the presence of a hidden pattern, and not for all elements, although most likely not for all, it was possible to select a family. The picture was not built. Of course, there were also examples of attempts to generalize a mess of elements or simply cram them into one tablet without any system. The main thing that we must understand from all this is that the issue of systematization of elements was right on the agenda and aroused keen interest among chemists from all over the world. And here Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev gets involved in the matter, who, although not immediately, managed to solve this riddle. And for those who believe that this was a lightning-fast discovery that also suddenly appeared to him in a dream, just watch your hands: Dmitry Ivanovich, as a student, did a lot of crystallography, his diploma work was... isomorphism; his master's thesis was specific volumes, where he studied the physical properties of elements, after which he traveled around Europe and communicated with world chemists, participated in the first chemical congress, where they approved the basic definitions necessary for systematization, after which a textbook on organic chemistry, where he clearly raised question of classification. This was not a sudden change in the direction of research; Dmitry Ivanovich pursued this work throughout his entire career; he immersed himself in the topic for 15 years and formed the knowledge base that, together with his intuition, led him to the answer. And in the same way, you shouldn't think that the world scientific community was some kind of fools, dullards, who themselves were not capable of anything, and were only able to cry out: Mendeleev come, bring order to the elements. Of course not. Dmitry Ivanovich also had to wrestle with this problem, and more than once walked along paths leading to a dead end. In general, the first step for Mendeleev was the conclusion that he could not find an answer in isomorphism; he needed to concentrate on physical properties. In his memoirs, he would later write: having devoted my energies to studying the substance, I see in them two distinctive features that most of all require study in every way. Mass, occupying space and manifested most realistically in weight, and individuality, expressed in chemical transformations. Therefore, the idea of a functional connection between the individual properties of elements and their atomic weights involuntarily arises. So I began to select, writing on separate cards the elements with their atomic weights and fundamental properties. I admit honestly, in the original version of the script I had a page and a half of a story about how, after many trials and errors, having laid out these cards with elements in horizontal rows into subgroups, Dmitry Ivanovich saw a connection in the increase in atomic masses between alkali metals and halogens, and Later, adding other subgroups of elements to this design, he noticed a systemic change in valency between the rows. But probably It's better that we leave the analysis of chemical subtleties to chemists, who in any case will tell it better than me and describe the most important thing. By arranging cards with elements in order of increasing atomic mass, Dmitry Ivanovich discovered that elements with similar properties occur at certain intervals. Having identified more or less evenly repeating intervals between similar substances, our hero came to an amazing conclusion - the properties of elements are not just related to atomic mass, but are in a certain PERIODIC dependence on it. That is, as the atomic mass increases, the properties of substances, for example, higher valence, tend to repeat themselves with a certain periodicity. And those of you who are familiar with the periodic table have probably already broken your brains from this arrangement of elements. Yes, in its original form the table was vertical, and this unusual appearance for modern man became the first embodiment of the great discovery. I agree, it's not very clear, and besides, there were a number of inaccuracies in this version, but this is only the beginning of this idea. Having supplemented the table with elements known at that time, Dmitry Ivanovich printed this system on a separate piece of paper and in February 1869 sent it to his St. Petersburg colleagues under the title "Experience of a system of elements based on their atomic weight and chemical similarity." On March 6, 69, at a meeting of the Russian Chemical Society, a message was read about the system of elements proposed by Professor Mendeleev. Dmitry Ivanovich himself was not present at the meeting because he was on a business trip, and this... is probably good, because among his colleagues such a system caused, to put it mildly... skepticism. Mendeleev's message did not produce the impression he expected . Academicians and professors simply shrugged their shoulders and expressed their doubts with restraint. But by that time Dmitry Ivanovich had already firmly understood that he had found the right trail and continued to develop the idea. This reaction, and the obvious imperfection of the draft, prompted our hero to reconstruct the table based on the same principle of periodicity, but into a more clear visual image. The vertical structure was replaced by a horizontal one, and the large double row was broken and arranged within the overall structure. But the location of some elements in the table was confusing. Little-studied substances seemed out of place, and Dmitry Ivanovich suggested that maybe their atomic mass was initially determined incorrectly? Mendeleev began to correct these values, substituting such mass values instead of the generally accepted ones so that they fit into the periodic pattern. Yes, this looks like adjusting facts to fit a hypothesis, but strictly speaking , there was not much confidence in these very facts at that time. As a result, he adjusted the values for eleven and changed the arrangement of twenty elements and the picture took shape. But there was something else. Upon careful examination , several empty cells could be found in the table , for example, after aluminum there should have been its analogue, but nothing of this kind was known to science, and Dmitry Ivanovich suggested that this gap represents some other, now unknown tetravalent element, but the properties which, thanks to the periodic pattern, we can predict in some detail... And now this was already very serious. None of the previous classifications included previously undiscovered substances, much less could they predict the properties of these unknown elements. And here Mendeleev accumulated a dozen such gaps. However, it was possible to accurately determine the properties only for three elements due to the lack of well-studied neighbors for the remaining gaps. So Dmitry Ivanovich determined the properties of analogues of aluminum, silicon and boron and entered them into the table under the tentative names ekaaluminum, ekasilicon and ekabor. The prefix Eka means one or single, which in fact was taken by Mendeleev from Sanskrit, this is how his dislike for Latin was embodied. In general, in August 1871, Dmitry Ivanovich published the article "Periodic Law for Chemical Elements," where he gives the same version of the table that has become a classic, and where he gives the first strict formulation of the periodic law: the properties of the elements, and therefore the properties of the simple and complex bodies they form, stand periodically depending on their atomic weight. In the same form, the table was included in the same textbook on Basic Chemistry, which, if you have forgotten, was Mendeleev's original idea. This is how Dmitry Ivanovich's discovery went to the masses, and moreover, the textbook was reprinted more than once during the life of our professor, so knowledgeable people should not be surprised at the presence in my copy of elements discovered after 1869. For example, Helium. And it is all the more surprising that Dmitry Ivanovich's discovery was made without the slightest idea about the internal structure of the atom, without his own experimental base and many years of testing, which again affected the reaction of his colleagues. Domestic chemists accepted the Periodic Law only as a bold hypothesis, but nothing more. There was an opinion that this system is applicable only as a convenient teaching aid for students, and its author should return to real chemistry, mix something, dissolve it, explode it in the end. Due to such mistrust of his compatriots, Mendeleev asked a friend to translate his article into German and sent it to famous foreign chemists, hoping to gain support from them. But here everything turned out to be even worse - the reaction abroad was generally zero, no one responded. We only know such anecdotal examples as with Professor Bunsen, in the spirit of when one of the students asked Bunsen his opinion about the periodic law, he replied "Oh, get away from me with these guesses, they are as correct as in stock market reports." Faced with such ignoring and skepticism, our professor decided to postpone this work and let time test and verify the periodic law. And... it was as if I was looking into water - four years later, everything changed dramatically. On September 20, 1875, a report by the French chemist Paul Lecoq de Boisbaudran was read at the Paris Academy, which reported his discovery of a new elementary substance and the study of its properties. This substance was named by its discoverer... Gallium. And now, a month later, Mendeleev reads the reports of the Paris Academy and sees a message about this discovery. It only took a split second for Dmitry Ivanovich to recognize the eka-aluminium he predicted in Gaul. Mendeleev immediately sends a letter to Boisbaudran, where he admires his discovery, but notes some inaccuracies in his work, namely, the discoverer incorrectly characterized a number of properties of Gallium and its compounds. Just imagine the irony of the situation: Mendeleev, who had not held even a grain of Gallium in his hands, and had never seen its spectrum, began to correct the discoverer, who, better than anyone else at that time, should have known the properties of the newly discovered element. And in general, it is not surprising that Boisbaudran's answer was quite sharp, saying, Mr. Mendeleev, haven't you confused anything? I'm a pioneer here, I'm the only one so far who has measured the properties of Gallium, and here you are telling me that the density is wrong. Please entrust this to practicing specialists, we will figure it out ourselves. But when, a few months later, the Frenchman received Gallium in quantities sufficient for more accurate measurements, he found out to his amazement that Mendeleev turned out to be absolutely right, and his clarifications were correct. To the credit of the Frenchman, it is worth noting that he did not hide this fact, and in his main work on this discovery he confirms the accuracy of the forecasts of his Russian colleague, and on the last pages he notes that there is no need to insist on the enormous importance of confirming the theoretical conclusions of Mr. Mendeleev. And this became the first loud confirmation of the periodic law. The attitude towards this hypothesis in quotation marks immediately changed. The discovery of Gallium spread throughout the world, but the first-ever prediction of the discovery of a chemical element and its properties sounded even louder. They started talking about Mendeleev , his periodic table was adopted by all advanced chemists, and even those who had recently spoken so disparagingly about it recognized this result. Further more, in 1879, Swedish chemist Lars Nilsson isolated another new element, which was called Scandium. And here Mendeleev didn't even have to interfere, Nilsson himself compared his data with the table of the Russian chemist and discovered that same ekabor in his Scandium and, in the same way, in his publication, he paid tribute to Dmitry Ivanovich as a person, a quote, whose thoughts made it possible to foresee the existence of the named substance and in advance give its most important properties Seven years later, in February 1986, the German chemist Clemens Winkler discovered Germanium, and then the discoverer did not wait for any reaction and himself wrote a letter to Mendeleev, in which he describes his discovery in the following words: At first I was of the opinion that this element coincides with ekasilicon from your remarkably insightfully constructed periodic system, but everything indicates that we are dealing with ekasilicon. I hope to soon inform you in more detail about this interesting substance, but today I limit myself only to informing you of the very likely new triumph of your ingenious research and testifying to you my respect and respect. Thus, in the 17 years since its discovery in 1869, Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev's periodic law has been precisely confirmed three times. And this could no longer leave anyone indifferent. Of course, opinions were voiced that, in fact, this is no longer a new thing, everything was already discovered a long time ago, just remember the triads. But those who took the issue seriously understood perfectly well that although there were germs of this idea in the works of Mendeleev's predecessors , nowhere was the periodic law revealed as comprehensively as in the works of Dmitry Ivanovich. And this merit was recognized by the entire scientific world. This is a story of Shakespearean proportions. Yes, people far from chemistry may consider such a discovery insignificant or at least not necessary in such a story, on the other hand, people who are well acquainted with chemical science know all these subtleties without me. My goal was not to immerse you in the details of the law itself, but rather to reveal the circumstances of this discovery and trace the path of this idea from an unacknowledged hypothesis to an accepted fact. Well, now you ask, where is this whole story about Mendeleev's dream about the periodic table? Or is this just a late story? Well, not quite. The legend that she appeared to Dmitry Ivanovich in a dream was born primarily thanks to his student and close friend Aleksandp Aleksandrovich Inostrantsev and his memoirs. So that you understand the full context of this legend, with your permission, I will give an extensive quote from these memoirs. "Once I went to Dmitry Ivanovich on some business and found him in an excellent mood; he even joked, which was extremely rare. This was shortly after his famous discovery of the law of periodicity of the elements. Taking advantage of this complacent mood of Dmitry Ivanovich, I turned to him with the question of what prompted him to the famous discovery. To this he said that he had long suspected a certain connection between the elements and that he had thought about it a lot and for a long time. Over the past months, Dmitry Ivanovich has spoiled a lot of paper in order to find this pattern in the form of a table, but nothing has been possible. Lately, he has been intensively taking up this issue again, and according to his story, he was even close to this, but nothing finally came of it. Just before the discovery of the law, Dmitry Ivanovich fussed over the desired table all night until the morning, and that's all. nothing came of it. He quit work in frustration and, tormented by the desire to get some sleep, immediately in his office, without undressing, he collapsed on the sofa and fell fast asleep. In a dream, he saw quite clearly the table that was later printed. Even in his sleep, his joy was so strong that he immediately woke up and quickly scribbled this table on the first piece of paper lying on his desk. I am citing this message from Dmitry Ivanovich here because I see in it one of the most excellent examples of the psychological impact of intense work on the human mind." Those times... That is, everything turns out to be true? At least the authenticity of Inostrantsev's recording is beyond doubt, although it is not dated, and it is unlikely that a close friend decided to slander Dmitry Ivanovich, belittling his merits. In general, such a conversation apparently actually took place. But there are several points indicating that not everything is so simple. Firstly, we can immediately discard the version of an easy discovery that suddenly appeared to Mendeleev in a dream. Inostrantsev emphasizes the hard work that preceded the discovery, and also emphasizes the psychological nature of this insight. Not grace from above, not a sign from God - precisely the fruit of persistent mental work. Secondly, did you notice where this story begins? "Dmitry Ivanovich was in an excellent mood and even joked, which was an extreme rarity for him." Personally, the thought involuntarily creeps into my mind, maybe this was also a joke? Imagine the situation: Mendeleev, in a good mood, is making jokes, and then suddenly says, "Hey, Inostrantsev, think about it, but I dreamed about my table" and Inostrantsev is like, "Ahaha, stop, but I'll probably write this down." Forgive me for this comic reconstruction, It is clear that such an explanation does not give us firm confidence, therefore, thirdly: we have at our disposal Mendeleev's drafts, in which the idea of periodicity GRADUALLY takes the form of a strict law. There are no jerks or strong leaps of thought that would necessarily be present if Dmitry Ivanovich had some kind of insight in a dream. We see a gradual development with a lot of trial and error that ultimately led to his discovery and the key word here is: gradually. Well, fourthly, Inostrantsev's memoirs are the ONLY evidence speaking in favor of this method of discovery. No one ever wrote about this again, although Dmitry Ivanovich soon became the object of close interest of journalists, and would they really not have seized on this legend, which can easily and simply explain the great discovery. Yes, there were some rumors during Mendeleev's lifetime, and every time someone asked him about it, he said that he had been working on this discovery for 15 years. In general, this whole story is very similar to the legend with Isaac Newton's apple, which fell either on his head, or nearby on the grass, or even fell purely hypothetically, from which Isaac Isakych immediately discovered the law of gravity. Moreover, Newton himself sometimes told his colleagues about this. And yet, this is just a legend, and modern researchers consider the fall of the apple to be only metaphorical . Yes, the stories are surprisingly similar and both of these legends are twisted as if great discoveries come to scientists overnight. You don't need to bother yourself with years of painstaking work, you just need to fall asleep correctly or sit under the right tree, it's easy. It is much more difficult to explain all these chemical subtleties and the difficult path that Dmitry Ivanovich overcame before making his discovery known throughout the world. Chapter 4: A Prophet in His Fatherland Of course, history remembers Dmitry Mendeleev primarily as a chemist, but you know, it would be unfair to our hero if I only tell you about his chemical research. Indeed, of the dozens and hundreds of his publications, scientific works on chemistry do not occupy even a fifth. The scope of topics in his works is amazing and inevitably raises the question: how could all this come together in one person? Dmitry Ivanovich was like this in his youth, and remained like this throughout his life. But in fact, the apparent disunity of themes, upon closer examination, reveals a thin thread that closely connects most of his works. These are not just isolated attempts to dive into every topic that comes across, this is a general system of knowledge and a picture of the world that appeared to the gaze of Professor Mendeleev. If we take a closer look at Dmitry Ivanovich's range of interests , we will be able to discover that almost everything in him is interconnected, one follows from the other and is itself a cause of interest. For example, while our professor was waiting for the first confirmation of his periodic law, even before the announcement of the discovery of Gallium, Dmitry Ivanovich was closely involved in the issue of elasticity of gases. He set up a laboratory right in the university apartment, and when asked whether these affairs would interfere with his wife Feozwe, he answered that she was away. Conducting experiments at home, Mendeleev became interested in the various states of gases, as they then called real and ideal. He studied the behavior of gaseous substances at different temperatures, measured their pressure and density, and eventually derived the equation of state of an ideal gas, also known as the Mendeleev-Clapeyron equation. But in this whole issue he was interested in one more point. The behavior of highly rarefied gases prompted him to think about the most pressing topic of science of that time, Dmitry Ivanovich thought about the problem of the world ether. By that time, theories of the origin of light developed by Isaac Newton and Christian Huygens, yes, that same wave-particle dualism, had been competing for more than one hundred and fifty years. Isaac Isaakovich believed that light is particles, corpuscles that move in empty cosmic space. Huygens believed that light is a wave propagating in a special medium that fills all cosmic space. And this very medium, called the light ether, became the focus of attention of scientists in the mid-19th century. Now we can skip the epic battles of corpusculators and wave thinkers, because in our case the main thing now is Mendeleev's research. Experimenting with lowering the pressure, Dmitry Ivanovich came to the conclusion that the gas, instead of acquiring that same ideal state, should have lost its elasticity and simply stopped expanding. He regarded this state of gaseous matter as a transition to the light ether that filled interplanetary space. He believed that he had found the very line where the earth's atmosphere passes into the interplanetary ether. Later he will write that If we imagine that gases are capable of rarefying only to a certain limit, having reached which they change their volume little with decreasing pressure, then the transition of the atmosphere in its upper limits into a uniform ethereal medium will become understandable. In this region of highly rarefied gases, our ideas are insignificant, and their replenishment promises to clarify a lot in nature. To the three states of matter - solid, liquid and gaseous - perhaps we should add a fourth - ethereal, meaning by it a substance in the extreme possible rarefaction. That is, the ether was presented to Mendeleev not as an abstract substance filling the universe, but as a highly rarefied gas, the state of which scientists have yet to achieve. Later, in his declining years, Dmitry Ivanovich will write an article "An attempt at a chemical understanding of the world ether", where he has already slightly specified his thoughts. He described the properties of the two noble gases preceding hydrogen in the periodic table. That is, having an atomic mass of less than one. The first of these gases was the so-called coronium spectral line of which was allegedly seen in the solar corona and, according to Mendeleev, it should have had a mass of 0.4, but the second gas, designated by the letter X was supposed to become an element with an atomic mass of millions of parts of hydrogen, which Dmitry Ivanovich proudly named Newtonium and this same Newtonium is the world ether. He even allocated a special zero group for them in the periodic table, but as it turned out later, no corona exists , and its spectral line is the so-called forbidden line of thirteen-fold ionized iron. And when researchers were able to look inside the atom, they became convinced that there could not be any elements lighter than hydrogen - one proton, one electron is much lighter. So Newtonius's idea, along with the entire concept of the world ether, went on the shelf, but Dmitry Ivanovich no longer saw these studies. And I hope you are not planning to brand Mendeleev with the shameful title of obscurantist. Now broadcasters are classified as pseudoscientists, but then this concept was not yet marginal, and everyone was seriously looking for confirmation of it. However, all these discussions about the ether opened up several areas of activity for Mendeleev. Firstly, if we are interested in the upper limits of the atmosphere and methods of studying them, then we inevitably dive into the question of studying the atmosphere in principle, at all its levels. And in the forefront we meet that field of knowledge that bears the name meteorology. Owing its name to ancient Greek philosophy, meteorology in its roughest definition is presented as the science of celestial phenomena. The study of climate and its changes at one time influenced both the settlement of peoples and the way of life of entire civilizations. Of course, after millennia, meteorology has managed to transform from discussions about seasonality into a deep study of the behavior of air masses and the influence of these atmospheric flows on the climate. To understand and predict weather phenomena, it was necessary to know not only the influence of the Sun, but also what part of the air and at what speed moves from one place to another. And if we are talking about the lower layers of the atmosphere, then please go outside and measure pressure, humidity, temperature, air composition, and so on. But if we are talking about the upper layers of the atmosphere, then at that time the movement of air in this area was completely unknown, and even difficult to study. Of course, you can climb the mountains with a bunch of equipment and take measurements at altitudes... well, I don't know, 3-4 thousand meters, but you yourself understand how risky an expedition this is, and these are not such upper layers. And guess what area Mendeleev became interested in? That's right - in the upper layers of the atmosphere, because during the study of highly rarefied gases, he realized that all the anomalies and deviations from the predicted values that he discovered could find an explanation precisely in the upper layers of the atmosphere, where the air becomes more and more rarefied with height , until ultimately As a result, it does not go into the ether state. But how to get to this area? The option of climbing the mountain, as we understand, was only a half-measure for Mendeleev; Dmitry Ivanovich became seriously interested in aeronautics. By that time, conquering air frontiers was no longer something fantastic. Almost a hundred years before these works by Mendeleev, the French inventors the Montgolfier brothers launched the first hot air balloon in history, which rose to a height of two thousand meters. In Russia, the pioneer of aeronautics is considered academician Yakov Dmitrievich Zakharov, who, together with the Belgian physicist Etienne Robert, on June 30, 1804, rose in a hot air balloon over St. Petersburg to a height of two and a half thousand meters. Moreover, this was not just a flight for entertainment or achievement, it was the first, one might say, scientific flight. The cradle of the balloon was filled to the brim with scientific instruments that recorded changes in temperature, pressure, electrification phenomena, the effect of altitude and its changes on the body, even changes in the magnetic field were measured. But paying tribute to Zakharov's feat, Dmitry Ivanovich stated that all this was not enough for that generalization that would bring order and clarity to the doctrine of weather. What was missing for this was much more numerous data obtained during the flights of the Briton John Glaisher in the fifties and sixties of the same century. Professor Mendeleev decided to make his own flight with blackjack and barometers, and this time to collect as much data as possible necessary for this very generalization. The project was ambitious, and Dmitry Ivanovich certainly didn't lack courage. But with the budget of this enterprise, everything was much less rosy - neither the university nor the ministry itself either wanted to allocate such funds or were unable to. So Dmitry Ivanovich decided to raise money on his own, saving the proceeds from the sale of his books for this enterprise . But unfortunately the required amount was not raised and the epic hot air balloon adventure had to be postponed for several years. It is interesting that one of the books, from the income from which Dmitry Ivanovich saved money, was devoted to a completely unexpected topic, which seemed to be as far from science as possible, despite the fact that we just talked about ether, and again this is indirectly connected with it. This book is called Materials for Judging Spiritualism. Yes, you heard right about spiritualism. And do not hope for a different context for this concept in view of a different era. We are talking about the same spiritualism in which mysterious mediums call for communication with the souls of the dead, who in turn provide answers to eternal questions. And Dmitry Ivanovich found himself drawn into this up to his ears, although okay, I'm being a little disingenuous... he burst into this movement with pleasure . But it would seem that the Russian Empire of the late 19th century... what the hell is spiritualism? This is a completely and completely Western superstition, absolutely alien to Russian culture. It seems... Actually not. The Empire at that time was experiencing a real flourishing of mystical movements, and we all have something to listen to on this topic... And maybe even the Pythagoreans . Thank you very much. This was my friend Andrey Aksenov, the author of the podcast Decline of the Empire, which I myself have been listening to with pleasure for a long time and recommend to you. In general, the fascination with mysticism, as we see, at that time was not some alien curiosity for the Russian Empire. When Mendeleev was a professor, spiritualistic seances became the subject of heated debate, saying that this was not some kind of obscurantism, but real science - a bridge between physical and mental phenomena. At one point, it got to the point where supporters of mystical techniques began to appear among scientists, professors and academicians . People who had merit to science, who had a big name in scientific circles, dived headlong into spiritualistic practices, because you must agree - why rack your brains over what Sir Isaac Newton wrote in his notes, if you can simply call on his spirit and stupidly ask. Yes, writing scripts about the lives of scientists would have been much easier for me then . But seriously, now you will probably ask me, what does Mendeleev actually have to do with it? Was he really also involved in calling the souls of the dead, trying to communicate with them and establishing the scientific nature of these practices? Yes and no. Dmitry Ivanovich really sought scientific confirmation in spiritualistic practices, but not with the goal of confirming their veracity, but quite the opposite - to expose them. A kind of Harry Houdini Award or Scientists against the myths of their time. But how did he even come from chemical research and the search for ether to scientific experiments with psychics? Everything is very simple: two of his comrades, chemistry professor Alexander Butlerov and zoologist Nikolai Wagner, became very interested in spiritualism under the influence of one of the propagandists of mysticism, Alexander Aksakov, a representative of a famous family. Both professors began to seriously publish articles about spiritualism in newspapers and literary magazines. This attracted the attention of Mendeleev. Initially, his interest was caused by the fact that psychic mediums, presenting their activities as pure science, they actively speculated on the terms of the scientific community, especially on this mysterious world ether. According to them, when a person dies, he leaves a certain particle of himself in the form of an ethereal entity, a kind of imprint on the world ether. And if he has certain abilities, the medium can establish contact with this entity and then depending on his luck, either everything will be limited to shaking or moving the table, as they called table turning back then, or the otherworldly spirit will enter into direct dialogue. And of course, such an opportunity for contact with the ethereal world could not pass by the attention of our hero. But all this talk about immortal souls looked too abstract, and Dmitry Ivanovich decided that it would be good to conduct a scientific experiment - take some eminent medium and let him show this very interaction with spirits. But it will not be shown to a drunken and gullible public in the Gostiny Dvor, but to scientists who will be able to measure everything and record the act of communication. Moreover, if it turns out that this is all a fraud, which Mendeleev was sure of, then his friends, Butlerov and Wagner, need to be saved from this hobby as soon as possible. I think that any of you who tried to discourage friends or relatives from some kind of obscurantism will perfectly understand the logic and motivation of Dmitry Ivanovich Well, at the insistence of Professor Mendeleev in 75, the Russian Physical Society formed a commission to consider mediumistic phenomena, which was headed by Dmitry Ivanovich himself, it also included Aksakov, Butlerov and Wagner and, notably, the writer Fyodor Dostoevsky. Mendeleev's university apartment was chosen as the place for the commission's meetings , and when asked by colleagues whether we would disturb Feozva Nikitishna and the children, Dmitry Ivanovich waved it off like, oh, they're away. Aksakov undertook to bring some famous psychics at his own expense and six months later brought from England the young Petty brothers, famous for their ability to materialize liquid out of nothing, and, being in a locked cage, to cause the ringing of a far-hanging bell. True, it is not entirely clear how communication with spirits manifests itself here, apparently the liquid coming out of nowhere is... ectoplasm. In short, a commission met in Mendeleev's apartment: they covered the windows, turned on mysterious music, as the psychics demanded, and the experiment began. As a result of six checks, it became clear that the bell was simply pulled by a thin thread, and the ectoplasm was just saliva. As soon as the mediums covered their mouths with a bandage, the liquid stopped coming out. In General, the Petty brothers were declared frauds and sent home. But somehow all this is not serious, we need a real medium who can call upon the souls of the dead and make them, at least, arrange a table turn. And a year later, the resilient Aksakov again brought from England a certain Mrs. Kleier, who specialized in just this. And the first experiments with her delighted the spiritualists of the commission; her tables jumped like dogs, shook, spun and almost ran to the store for bread. Mendeleev realized that you need to monitor her every movement, in case she moves the table herself, but you won't look under the lady's dress, so Dmitry Ivanovich designed a special spiritual table. The tabletop was not rigidly screwed to the legs, but lay on special pads to which pressure gauges were connected. So any impact on the table, even the smallest one, was recorded very accurately; if one of the participants put their hands on the tabletop, then the devices even recorded your pulse. Well, is it any wonder that Mrs. Kleier, having seen such equipment, simply refused to participate in the experiment, saying that you are insulting the spirits with your devices, turned around and left. This is where the work of the commission ended. The result of this work was the publication of Dmitry Ivanovich entitled Materials for judging spiritualism, published in 76. General conclusion of the commission was formulated with the phrase that spiritualistic phenomena arise from unconscious movements or from conscious deception, and the spiritualistic teaching itself is superstition. But alas, the epic battle of psychics did not work out, the book sold poorly, and the commission's conclusions did not have any significant impact on the masses. Mendeleev's disappointment was all the stronger because the proceeds from the sale of this work were supposed to go towards creating a balloon, which, in fact, was even noted on the title page, but there was no income as such. But it still can't be called a complete failure, because Butlerov and Wagner did give up this activity, and twenty-five years later Dmitry Ivanovich will write in his memoirs " We achieved the result: they gave up spiritualism. I don't repent that I worked hard. And the professor did not sit idle, because at that time an economic crisis, or rather an oil crisis, broke out in the country. The pioneer of the Russian oil industry, Vasily Aleksandrovich Kokorev, who built the first oil refineries near Baku, lamented that this business had become completely unprofitable. By some incomprehensible coincidence, prices for petroleum products, mainly for lighting kerosene, have collapsed and it is generally unclear what to do with all this now. To help solve the crisis, Kokorin called on Dmitry Mendeleev, an experienced chemist who had visited the Baku fields more than once and was generally familiar with the situation in the oil industry. And so Dmitry Ivanovich arrived at the place, examined everything, studied it and came to the conclusion that the main reason for unprofitability was the colossal costs of transportation. Baku kerosene was transported along the Volga in ordinary wooden barrels on ordinary ships, and as a result, more than half the price of kerosene was the cost of the barrel itself. In order to reduce these terrible expenses, Mendeleev proposed building a pipeline from Baku to Astrakhan, and from there transporting oil products along the Volga in special tankers to Nizhny Novgorod, from where it would be convenient to deliver kerosene to any central part of the empire. That is, Dmitry Ivanovich proposed to get rid of transportation in barrels altogether and proposed ideas that were later embodied in oil pipelines and tankers. Of course, not all of his ideas were accepted overnight, but we see their gradual implementation and development even now. Well, as for the sudden collapse of prices on the Russian market, Mendeleev saw the reason in American kerosene, which they had recently begun to import into the Russian Empire. Petroleum products from the United States were of much lower quality, but they were much cheaper, even taking into account the fact that they were transported from overseas. To establish the reasons for such cheapness, it was decided to send Professor Mendeleev and his colleague Valery Gemilian to America so that they could find out the production details and draw up a detailed report. So, who said industrial espionage? In fact, the trip was quite official, and the occasion for it was the Philadelphia World Exhibition of 1876, where samples of petroleum products and advanced American equipment were to be presented. Moreover, meetings were scheduled with Pennsylvania oil entrepreneurs, who, in theory, would have to show the Russian professors their production sites. On June 11, 86, Mendeleev and Gemilian sailed on the steamship Labrador across the ocean and ten days later entered New York Harbor. The center of civilization of the new world, let's say, did not make much of an impression on Dmitry Ivanovich, and in order not to distort the meaning, let me just quote his memories. When we boarded the carriage to get to the hotel, we were struck by the plainness of the streets of the famous city. They were not wide, paved with cobblestones extremely poorly, worse even than on the worst streets of Moscow and St. Petersburg. The houses are brick, unpainted, clunky and dirty. The streets are dirty. Shops and shops remind not St. Petersburg, but the district cities of Russia. In a word, the first impression of entry was not in favor of a world city with a million population. In general, the first impression is so-so. The Russian consul instructed the professors, gave them covering letters, and they went through Washington to Philadelphia directly to the exhibition itself. By the way, she, too, did not particularly impress Mendeleev with the wealth of oil exhibits. Several samples of crude oil and lubricating oils could be viewed at home, but Dmitry Ivanovich was interested in the stand of the Pennsylvania plant Aladdin . There were presented samples of already refined oil products, which were vividly and energetically presented by the director of the enterprise, Mr. Tweddle , an educated and enterprising businessman who had already heard about Mendeleev and was eager to show him his plant. A couple of days later, accompanied by Tweddle, the professors went to Pennsylvania, where, not far from Pittsburgh, the director happily showed them his enterprise and told them about all the intricacies of production. And Dmitry Ivanovich was amazed - everything that he strongly recommended to Kokorev was fully implemented here. The Americans seemed to have overheard him pumping crude oil through a pipeline, transporting it on special tankers , and processing plants were not built in the area of the deposits, but were concentrated directly in the sales areas. But there were also innovations: interesting mechanical devices for filling containers, inventive methods of automation, even nailing down boxes. The visit to production facilities in Pennsylvania seemed to Dmitry Ivanovich the most productive of the entire trip. After this, Mendeleev and Gemilian visited the oil town of Parker and moved back to New York, not missing the opportunity to look at the stunning miracle of nature - Niagara Falls. They even took a photo as a souvenir. As a result, after a couple of days they sailed from New York in the direction of Europe and after a couple of weeks they found themselves in their homeland. The impression from the trip was twofold. American oil workers impressed Dmitry Ivanovich with their organization. From an economic point of view, the whole process was set up perfectly, a minimum of unnecessary costs, efficiency and a high degree of automation of production, many interesting engineering solutions, well-organized logistics and, what is very important, help from the state. But from a scientific point of view it was yesterday. Very primitive distillation technologies, a huge amount of raw waste that was simply poured onto the ground or burned, but a lot of useful things could be done from this waste, in quotes. As Mendeleev put it, they save pennies, but lose rubles. I approached many scientists with questions about the scientific development of oil and, to my surprise, learned that they had no answers to the very first questions of the oil business either from the chemical or geological side . As if in the first twenty years since the birth of this industry, the scientific side of the issue has not moved at all. Well, based on what he saw, Dmitry Ivanovich drew up a detailed transformation plan outlined in his book "The Oil Industry in the North American State of Pennsylvania and the Caucasus. He proposed adopting the engineering and economic developments of the West and combining this with the scientific knowledge and experience of Russian industry. So he proposed completely abolishing the excise tax on oil, constructing continuous distillation cubes, turning fuel oil from waste into raw material for the production of lubricating oils, and much more. And in fact, soon after the abolition of the excise tax in the empire, prices began to level out, the import of American kerosene completely stopped, and Russian kerosene entered the international market. The fact that by the beginning of the 20th century the Russian industry accounted for more than half of world oil production is due in no small part to belongs to Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev. But you shouldn't think that everything in our hero's life went without problems, as smoothly as clockwork. There were failures, misfortunes, and even conflicts on Mendeleev's path, which sometimes developed into real scandals, which in general is not surprising given his hot-tempered character. For example, contemporaries well remembered the hype that arose in 1880 around the election of Dmitry Ivanovich as a corresponding member of the Imperial Academy of Sciences. The thing is that in February of that year, one of the patriarchs of Russian chemistry, Academician Nikolai Zinin, who occupied the department of applied chemistry at the Academy of Sciences, passed away. A vacant position arose, for which an honorary scientist who knew a lot about chemical science was required, and when choosing candidates, Alexander Butlerov, already known to us from this chapter, nominated Mendeleev. After all, which Russian scientist could be more worthy? It's obvious ! Well... this is obvious to you and me, but it didn't seem so to the President of the Academy of Sciences Fedor, or rather Friedrich Litka, who had held the post for 16 years, and neither did his permanent secretary Konstantin Veselovsky. As a result, when voting for the approval of Mendeleev as an academician, the votes were distributed as follows: 9 for and 10 against. Moreover, the decisive vote was Litke, who, as president, had two votes. And it would seem that they didn't accept it and didn't accept it, why bother? But a huge scandal broke out, which very quickly came to public attention. And the cause of the scandal was the publication of the names of those who voted against Mendeleev. Listen: Litka and Veselovsky understand this, but then Maksimovich, Gadolin, Helmersen, Wild, Schrenk, Strauch, Schmidt. That is, for the most part, German surnames. And they immediately raised an old story that had been going on since the time of Lomonosov: they say the German party is firmly entrenched in the Academy of Sciences and does not allow Russian scientists there. The already delicate situation was aggravated by the fact that Fyodor, or rather again Friedrich, Belshtein, was nominated as a counterweight to Mendeleev's candidacy . Several academicians of German origin added fuel to the fire, they say, where is it written that the academy is Russian? She's imperial! This means that no one is obliged to accept only Russian scientists there. Well... away we go. There was a wild uproar in the newspapers, the public became terribly excited, everyone was talking about the dominance of the Germans in the academy. A protest document was even drawn up, which supposedly was supposed to force Litke to accept Mendeleev into the ranks of academicians. But everything was unsuccessful. And Butlerov has already regretted a million times that he nominated Dmitry Ivanovich, because in fact the reason was not in national disputes. The whole point is that, under the leadership of Litke, the Academy tried to dissociate itself from universities, saying that we are the very first scientific estate, established by Peter the Great himself, and we, academicians, stand above all these university professors. And even more so, Litke and Veselovsky did not want to see the emotional and hot-tempered Mendeleev within the walls of the academy, who would cause a fuss in the circles of conservative academicians. That is, the main reason for the refusal was not because Mendeleev was Russian, but because he was inconvenient. A bureaucrat does not need an energetic and headstrong academician; he needs a quiet and obedient subordinate who will not enter into conflicts with his superiors. Even Butlerov himself, who became the unwitting instigator of the whole scandal, has openly stated more than once that there is no point in humiliating himself to national interpretations of the conflict. I constantly emphasize my respect for my German colleagues, and that one should not judge by appearance or last name, which may be alien to Russian ears, but close in spirit and in the desire for the development of Russian science. However, the popular rumor could no longer be stopped. Even the central heroes of this conflict, Mendeleev and Belshtein, who were placed as rivals against their will, never allowed themselves bad words about each other. Dmitry Ivanovich characterized his colleague as an honored and hardworking scientist who has an honorable place in Russian science. In turn, Belshtein said: in Russia there are no more talents as powerful as Mendeleev. But in the end, instead of talking about the excessive conservatism of the academy and the need for reforms in it, it turned out to be another conversation about the struggle between the Russian and German parties. Perhaps in Lomonosov's time this was a very acute problem, because apart from the Imperial Academy of Sciences, in general, there was nothing else, but not at the end of the 19th century, when a scientist could make a name for himself without ever crossing the threshold of the academy. But characteristically, Dmitry Ivanovich himself did not participate in this conflict at all. As you may have noticed, the scandal erupted just because of his big name. At the same time, Mendeleev was not present at the vote, where his membership in the ranks of academicians was decided, and did not attend events in support of his candidacy and protection of his interests. He distanced himself as much as possible from this dirty story, because he was much more worried about academic intrigues about the crisis that had been brewing for a long time, the crisis in his personal life. Chapter 5: From heaven to earth and back Perhaps in the last chapter you noticed the constant absence of Feozva Nikitishna, Mendeleev's wife. No matter how friends come to Dmitry Ivanovich , she is not there. "She's away," the professor waved him off and immediately changed the subject. Some serious problems in the family were visible to the naked eye, but... what exactly was wrong? The Mendeleevs had been married for 14 years, but in the very first years of their life together, Feozva Nikitichna realized the futility of arrogant attempts to change her husband's difficult disposition with her love. All the time, Dmitry Ivanovich was focused on work and anything that distracted him, that confused his train of thought and concentration on a scientific problem instantly drove him crazy. At the slightest trifle, he would start screaming, swearing, and slamming the door into his office. Feozva, wiping her tears, went to her room, quietly cursing at her husband. And now, a moment later, he is already on his knees in front of her and, still screaming, asks for forgiveness for his incontinence. But as soon as the tears of resentment dried up, as soon as they waited for at least a little calm, everything would repeat itself again. More screaming, swearing, slamming doors, and more tearful apologies. On the other hand, one can notice the wife's absolute indifference to Dmitry Ivanovich's great work. What is the periodic law? What is the elasticity of gases? He is doing some incomprehensible nonsense instead of being with his family. In general, the family life of the Mendeleev spouses, to put it mildly, did not go well. The final wedge between them was driven by Dmitry Ivanovich's near-affair with a young governess, which the whole family found out about. For some time, the Mendeleevs continued to live together as if nothing had happened, the children grew up surrounded by the love of both parents, but the spouses themselves hardly saw each other, much less communicated. They did not last long; after another quarrel, Feozva Nikitichna took the children and left for Boblovo, and Dmitry Ivanovich was given complete freedom of action with the condition of preserving the family. Do what you want, but there will be no divorce. Professor Mendeleev was left alone in the university apartment. The sudden onslaught of loneliness and the ear-piercing absolute silence very quickly became unbearable for him, and in order to somehow fill the resulting void, he invited his sister Ekaterina Ivanovna Kapustina to live with the children in the empty part of the apartment. The layout of the housing was such that Dmitry Ivanovich could calmly do his work and not even interfere with his sister, or with her son, a university student, or with her daughter, a student at the Academy of Arts. But one day, returning home from a lecture, Dmitry Ivanovich heard the piano playing from the back room. He knocked on his sister's door and asked who was playing? And this is Anna "Ivanovna," answered the sister, her daughter's classmate at the Academy of Arts. So a new woman appeared in the life of our hero. Seventeen-year-old blonde Anna Ivanovna Popova was the daughter of a Cossack from the village of Uryupinskaya and on her mother's side a quarter Swedish. She spent most of her life on the Don in the city of Novocherkassk, but her natural craving for creativity first led her to the conservatory, where she learned to play the piano, and later to the St. Petersburg Academy of Arts, where she studied painting with Dmitry Ivanovich's niece. Lacking her own home, Anna begged Mendeleev's sister to live with them, and when the Kapustin family moved into Dmitry Ivanovich's university apartment, she moved in too. And then the first meeting took place - a young artist and a forty-three-year-old world-famous professor. A gentle creative nature and a hot temperament with an inquisitive mind. Very quickly, communication began between them and Anna Ivanovna, with her innocent coquetry and sweet conversations about nothing, without realizing it, fell head over heels in love with Professor Mendeleev. She played the piano and talked with the professor about literature, they spent the evenings playing chess and discussing painting, which Dmitry Ivanovich was well versed in. And then one day he confessed to her that he was suffering from loneliness and had strong feelings for her. Anna admitted that she actually has a fiance in Novocherkassk, and the age difference between her and Dmitry Ivanovich is too big. But at the same time she wavered and when she went south to her native land for the summer, she broke up with her fiance and freed him from all kinds of obligations. Dmitry Ivanovich's sister Ekaterina, seeing how an absolutely inappropriate romance was developing before her eyes, hurried to move to another apartment, but it was already too late. Professor Mendeleev began to visit often, seemingly to see his relatives, but in fact wanting to once again meet the charming artist, before whom he no longer hid his most serious intentions. Soon Anna's father intervened in the matter, who rushed from Novocherkassk and strictly forbade Mendeleev to see his daughter, at least temporarily, as a test of the seriousness of his feelings. But even this did not help, Dmitry Ivanovich began to meet Anna Ivanovna after classes at the entrance to the Academy of Arts, to which there were a huge number of unwanted witnesses and gradually rumors about this affair spread throughout the academy, and soon spread along the embankment to the university. Seeing the complexity of the situation, Dmitry Ivanovich resorted to a trick. He began organizing evenings for young artists in his apartment , where he invited fairly well-known creators in the field of painting. Fortunately, he had no problems with connections. Naturally, the main goal of these evenings was to attract the attention of Anna, for whom such meetings should have been interesting and useful. However, she did not want to break her word to her father, and in order to save both herself and the ardent professor from torment, she decided to go to Italy, to Rome, to study painting. But it only got worse; separation for Mendeleev turned into unbearable pain, which over time developed into real depression in its worst manifestation. But here close friends, for whom this situation was no secret, already intervened. An old family friend, Professor Beketov, and Alexander Inostrantsev, already familiar to us, saw how their so lively and ardent comrade was literally wasting away before our very eyes. At first they tried to reason with him, saying that he shouldn't be so upset over a girl, but Mendeleev simply gave them letters he had written but not sent to Anna to read, and his friends realized that this was not some frivolous hobby, everything was very, very serious. It was decided that Beketov should urgently go to Boblovo, and as a family friend, at any cost, obtain Feozva Nikitichna's consent to a divorce. In some biographies you can read that she got into a pose and, having set a whole bunch of conditions, pressed Mendeleev has everything that is possible. 100% of his university salary as alimony, the right to own an estate in Boblovo, payment for a separate apartment in St. Petersburg. But in fact, Dmitry Ivanovich himself proposed all this a long time ago, and with regard to the maintenance of his children he was never greedy, so such provocative turns of phrase would be too much of an exaggeration. But one way or another, it was on these conditions that the divorce agreement was concluded. Having initiated the divorce, Dmitry Ivanovich rushed to Rome to Anna Ivanovna, who by that time had realized the strength of her feelings, and answered "YES" to the marriage proposal, now legal. The lovers left Rome and went on a trip to Europe, southern Italy, Spain, Paris. Returning to the Russian Empire, they first traveled along the Volga, and soon moved into a university apartment where their first daughter Lyuba was born on December 29, 1981. However, the issue of divorce dragged on, and only at the beginning of 1882 the St. Petersburg diocese finally made a final decision on the dissolution of the first marriage, but here suddenly a problem arose. In view of the fact that Dmitry Ivanovich was recognized as the culprit of the divorce, the consistory imposed penance on him - a ban on marrying for the next seven years. And this greatly complicated the situation. Dmitry and Anna could now not get married, and little Lyuba risked becoming an illegitimate child. But as it turned out, if you find the right priest and... motivate him correctly, you can bypass the church ban. As a result, the Holy Father at the Admiralty agreed to marry the lovers for modest... ten thousand rubles, bypassing penance, and on April 22, 1982, the wedding took place. Needless to say, the enterprising priest was defrocked the very next day, but he considered the sum of 10 thousand rubles to be sufficient compensation for this little trouble . And so this story with the second marriage of Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev was resolved. Well, I'll tell you about passion. However, if you are already itching to express an opinion about the ethics of what happened, then I want to stop you. Let us not put on a white coat and condemn any of the characters. History turned out the way it did, because these were living people with their own feelings, none of them pursued the title of the most noble person in the universe. Of course, if you wish, you can blame each of them for something : Feozva for indifference to her husband or for trying to change a man who has already grown up and has developed his character. Anna for seducing the professor and spinning him around as she wanted, and of course for our hero for chasing skirts while still a married man. But you can't order your heart and it's not for us to judge them. And while these changes were taking place in Mendeleev's personal life, changes on a national scale were taking place in the Russian Empire. At the very moment when Dmitry Ivanovich was hurrying to see Anna in Rome, on March 1, 81, in St. Petersburg on the embankment of the Catherine Canal, Narodnaya Volya terrorists blew up the royal carriage with homemade throwing bombs. As a result of the attack, three people died, and Emperor Alexander II was seriously wounded, and as soon as he was taken to the winter palace, His Majesty the Emperor died. We know nothing about Dmitry Ivanovich's reaction to this crime - not even any notes have been preserved. He continued to study the oil business, taught at the university, and communicated with friends and colleagues. But this global reset happened not only around but also in Mendeleev himself - old interests and areas of work that he had managed to shelve were awakened. In particular, meteorology and aeronautics suddenly burst into his life again. As we remember, in the seventies, his plans to construct a balloon and make a flight were not crowned with success - the books, the sales of which were supposed to provide money for the enterprise, remained unsold. But everything changed in 1887 On August 7 of that year, residents of the Moscow province expected to see a total solar eclipse, rare for these regions . Both scientists and ordinary citizens were waiting with great interest for the event, which was last visible from Moscow in 1476. Of course, this did not escape the attention of Mendeleev, since the Boblov estate was just about to be in the zone of total eclipse, and Dmitry Ivanovich called his colleagues to his home for observations. But literally eight days before the eclipse, Mendeleev received a telegram from the Russian Technical Society, with a proposal to observe the eclipse not from the ground, but together with the inventor Stepan Dzhevetsky to rise in a balloon above the clouds and conduct observations from above. Dmitry Ivanovich was known for his interest in aeronautics and the question of his candidacy, in general, was not a question. Well, needless to say, he abandoned the idea of observation in the company of colleagues in Boblovo and willingly agreed to this adventure. It was planned to fill the balloon of the technical society with illuminating gas and launch it from the territory of Tver, but Mendeleev proposed to involve the Ministry of War and use a military balloon filled with hydrogen, supposedly it would be safer. And it should be launched not from Tver, but from the territory of Klin, that is, not far from Boblov. The War Ministry, which had hydrogen balloons at its disposal , heeded Mendeleev's arguments and went along with it, because it was a good experience in quickly transporting a balloon over long distances and fully preparing for a flight in a short time. Who knows when this might come in handy again? In general, the ministry allocated a team, a balloon, and already on August 4, the cargo began to arrive in Klin. The flight was supposed to involve the military aeronaut Kovanko, the inventor Dzhevetsky and Mendeleev himself, but Dzhevetsky still decided to stick to his original plan and headed to Tver, so two people had to take off from Klin. And now the moment of truth has come. The eclipse was supposed to take place early in the morning on August 7, but since the night the sky was densely overcast and lightly drizzling - not the most favorable weather for flying, but all the efforts to prepare observations in the air were justified. And so, in the morning, a huge crowd gathered in the field around the balloon, journalists, artists, ordinary people all gathered to look at this ascent, and as soon as Dmitry Ivanovich approached the balloon, applause and shouts of welcome were heard in the crowd. Mendeleev climbed into the basket, where the fussy Kovalko was already waiting for him. And now everything is ready, the eclipse is about to begin... but the ball still does not take off. Two people in a basket are arguing heatedly about something , and time passes. From the roar of the crowd, voices are heard saying that the balloon, wet from the rain, is now too heavy and cannot begin to rise. And then Kovalko jumps out of the basket, hurriedly explains something to Dmitry Ivanovich, and commands the soldiers to "Give it back," and at that same second, amid enthusiastic cries, the balloon with one single passenger, Mendeleev, rushed upward towards the already darkening sky Yes, now the success of the whole enterprise was completely in the hands of Dmitry Ivanovich. Now he was a pilot, an engineer, and a researcher all rolled into one. An amazing journey began , challenging all the skills of our hero, in which the price of a mistake could be his own life. I did not see or hear what was happening below. The ball rose in absolute silence, but so slowly that the sand had to be thrown off immediately. But the sand did not fall off, because the moisture stuck together into one solid lump. I placed a bag of sand at the bottom of the basket and began to scoop it up with my hands so that I could throw it overboard in solid lumps . The rise began to increase. The ball came out of the cloud and suddenly found itself in the dark, as if it had fallen into a thick cloud that blocked the Sun. Dmitry Ivanovich in the darkness began to look for another bag of sand to scoop out more, but then he realized that the Sun was hidden from him not by a cloud, but by the Moon. Has arrived total phase of the eclipse. What I saw can be described in very few words. Around the Sun I saw a light halo of pure silver color. I didn't see any yellow, red or purple in the crown. The dimensions of the crown were unequal along different radii; at its widest point, the thickness of the ring was no more than the radius of the Moon. My eyes did not see any other rays, radiances or corollas that are sometimes drawn to depict the crown. I didn't notice any stars. By corollas, I believe, Dmitry Ivanovich meant prominences, which are sometimes visible during a total eclipse, but apparently at that moment there was nothing large on the Sun. As for the stars that Mendeleev was supposed to see, he was probably prevented by the clouds within which he was still located. The professor spent several seconds unable to tear himself away from such a bewitching spectacle, but as soon as he remembered the instruments and began to fussily take them out of the box in the basket, one small cloud first ran across the Sun and then a large massive cloud covered the luminary, so that our observer Having already prepared the goniometer, there was now nothing to measure. Taking advantage of the forced break, Mendeleev looked at the barograph, from which he determined the altitude - almost one and a half kilometers. It was necessary to rise higher, but after a moment the clouds were illuminated with bright light - the total phase of the eclipse was over. Now it was necessary to concentrate on the further flight, most of which was just beginning. The sun peeked out from behind the clouds, and under the direct rays the wet balloon began to quickly dry out, become lighter and more willing to rise up. The altitude has already exceeded two kilometers, and the thermometer has dropped to one degree Celsius. Beginning of August if anything. But strangely enough, Dmitry Ivanovich did not feel cold; the sun warmed him. In the same way, he did not feel the wind blowing - the balloon moved along with the air currents. Gradually, the clouds began to dissipate, revealing a view of the earth, and then distinct sounds from the surface reached Mendeleev . Somewhere a cow mooed, somewhere a horse neighed, somewhere roosters crowed. For the first time during the entire journey, the absolute silence was broken by the usual earthly sounds. After half an hour, the ball was completely dry and soon reached the highest point - three and a half kilometers. The time had come to think about the descent, for which it was necessary to gradually release hydrogen from the balloon by opening the corresponding valve, but then Dmitry Ivanovich noticed with horror that the ropes opening this valve were tangled, and it was impossible to control the descent. There was no choice - I had to climb up the slings to get to this knot, but at that moment the ball lost its balance and tilted threateningly. For several minutes the basket was practically on its side, and our professor was in a hanging position, unraveling the ropes. He looked down with caution, fearing dizziness, but soon everything was put in order and the basket was level. A slow descent began. Villages, pastures and arable lands floated under the basket , although forests and swamps often flashed by. After some time, human voices became distinguishable , shouting from below, "Come down, we've made a mess here." Dmitry Ivanovich wrote a note to gather people, folded it in half and threw it overboard, but to his surprise the piece of paper did not fall, but only flew next to him in the wind. So she accompanied him until, behind one village, Mendeleev noticed a clearing free of crops, surrounded by a small forest. There he decided to land the balloon. And the people were already running towards the ball, Dmitry Ivanovich noticed a strong peasant in the crowd, threw him a mooring rope and ordered him to tie him to a tree. A moment later, the basket softly touched the ground, and it was necessary to quickly release the remaining hydrogen from the balloon, but the quickly falling ball was caught by a gust of wind and jerked so that the basket, already standing on the ground, fell over on the side. Having got out of it and again feeling solid ground under our feet, we could state the end of this crazy journey. In a total of two and a half hours of flight, Professor Mendeleev covered a distance of almost 100 kilometers in a northeast direction from Klin, and landed near the village of Spas-Ugol. The maximum height was three and a half thousand meters, and although this adventure did not provide any breakthrough scientific data, Dmitry Ivanovich achieved his main goal - to show that scientists are not some clumsy recluses not of this world. Scientists are determined, enterprising and, most importantly, practical people who are able to boldly face danger and overcome difficulties even in the most critical situations. But in contrast to the clear and understandable difficulties in the sky, there were ambiguous problems on the ground. The reign of Emperor Alexander III is characterized by some as the golden age of Russia, and by others as the era of a ripening revolution. The eighties were remembered for the incessant student unrest, and in the year of Dmitry Ivanovich's balloon flight, an impending assassination attempt on the Tsar was discovered. Among the suspects was a student at St. Petersburg University, whom Mendeleev knew personally, and who, as it turned out, made bullets and bombs for the terrorists. The state responded to this with repression, executions and tightening the screws, which only increased student discontent. Among young guys, future scientists and inventors, there were more and more extremists and radical revolutionaries. And so, on the eve of the next demonstration, Dmitry Ivanovich, like many other professors, tried to calm the students' fervor, to prevent violence and clashes with the police and army. All this threatened serious measures up to the closure of the university, and Professor Mendeleev, who was trying to prevent a disaster, became a mediator in negotiations between students and the Ministry of Education. And at first, there seemed to be some progress: the minister recognized the inadmissibility of bloodshed at student demonstrations and showed a peaceful and friendly attitude. However, when Mendeleev brought a petition with the students' demands, the minister simply returned it back with the words that no one could accept such papers at all. Realizing his powerlessness and the impossibility of somehow influencing the situation, Dmitry Ivanovich with a heavy heart decided to leave his job at the university. On March 19, 1890, in front of the students, he presented his resignation to the rector, and although everyone hoped that he would change his mind, three days later Professor Mendeleev gave the last university lecture in his life, which ended with the parting words "I wish you to comprehend the truth in all its purity and perfection in the most calm way" But Dmitry Ivanovich was not left without work, and freed from the troublesome work of a professor, he was in great demand. For example, in the same year, Mendeleev's longtime friend from his student years, and now Minister of Finance Ivan Vyshnegradsky, turned to our hero with an unusual request - to join the commission to develop the concept of the state's customs policy. The commission included prominent scientists and officials, so the participation of the generally recognized expert in the oil industry, Dmitry Mendeleev, was not a surprise to anyone. But what is noteworthy is that during this work, Dmitry Ivanovich met the then director of the railway transport department, Sergei Yulievich Witte, with whom he would have many common affairs, because Witte, as we know, had a great future. In general, in 1891, the commission developed and put into circulation a system of protective duties on imported goods, which was supposed to stimulate the development of domestic industry. But the matter did not stop there - a year later Dmitry Ivanovich wrote a large treatise, the Explanatory Tariff , or a study on the development of industry in Russia due to its general customs tariff of 91 years. In this work of five hundred pages, Mendeleev gave historical information about industry in Russia, explained the reason for the introduction of duties, made forecasts for the future, and generally considered this work one of the most important in his life. Not without irony, but he said: What kind of chemist am I? I'm a political economist! What are the basics of chemistry, that's the Explanatory Tariff book! At the same time, Dmitry Ivanovich worked on the task of the Navy Ministry to develop a domestic version of smokeless gunpowder. Ordinary gunpowder made from saltpeter, sulfur and coal was inapplicable for large-caliber naval artillery; it simply tore apart the gun itself, but in France and England smokeless gunpowder was already widely used in the navy, which created a huge technological gap with the Russian empire. And so Mendeleev, who was known and respected in Europe, was involved in the matter. He went on a business trip to Paris, visited the gunpowder laboratories there, and then spy tales began again about how he found out the secret of French gunpowder and copied its composition. In fact, everything was much simpler: Mendeleev's authority abroad was so high that the French themselves provided him with a sample of their gunpowder. Small, only two grams, but that was enough for Dmitry Ivanovich. French smokeless powder turned out to be very far from perfect. Its main drawback was the heterogeneity of the product. When fiber is nitrated, part of the substance turns into soluble collodion, and part into insoluble pyroxylin, which had blasting properties , that is, it was an explosive with a great destructive effect, again inapplicable for artillery. What was needed was a substance that would not detonate, but simply burn quickly. And Dmitry Ivanovich approached the matter not so much as a military engineer, but as a chemist, and by 91 he managed to develop a method for producing nitro-fiber of a uniform composition. He called the dried, loose substance obtained as a result pyrocollodium, and if you dissolve it in a small amount of an alcohol-ether mixture, you will get a homogeneous jelly-like mass, which after drying also represents a homogeneous granular mixture that readily burns, BUT without detonation, which was necessary. At the same time, he developed a new type of drying not using heating with warm air, which, as you understand, was an explosive process. Mendeleev soaked this jelly-like mass in absolute alcohol, which greedily absorbed water and thus dried it into the final product. This is how Mendeleev's pyrocollodion gunpowder was born. Soon he produced a sufficient amount of the substance for military field tests, and on June 5, 1893, pyrocollodium was first used in practice when firing from a thirty-centimeter cannon. The result was brilliant: pyrocollodium demonstrated its suitability for firing from all types of weapons, from rifles and pistols to huge ship trunks. But when the scientific part of the issue was solved and the task of factory production arose, problems began. Samples of pyrocolodium and the corresponding documentation were transferred to the Okhtensky powder factories for the development of the first large batch, and then the bureaucracy and finding out who was cooler than whom began. The military engineers did not like the fact that a civilian was telling them how to work, and in their report on the examination of the pyrocolod they reported that in general, Mr. Mendeleev's research was essentially an attempt to find something that had long been studied in detail by the Okhten powder factories. The method of drying with alcohol has been known to our craftsmen for a year now, and Dmitry Ivanovich's economic proposals are certainly interesting, but in general they are not based on experience, but on assumptions that have no practical basis. Mendeleev responded with an angry letter to the ministry, where he explained point by point that these same Okhten craftsmen did not even understand the difference between pyroxylin and pyrocolor, and they really did not use the alcohol drying method. They found out a year ago, but they only learned it from Mendeleev. But production had already stalled and, not wanting to participate in these squabbles any longer, Dmitry Ivanovich resigned from his position as a consultant to the ministry. It is characteristic that the recipe for making pyrocollodium, which was shelved, soon mysteriously leaked to the United States, where it was immediately patented by Navy junior lieutenant John Bernado and became widespread. It's a pity, of course, that the Okhten craftsmen didn't think of patenting the things they studied a long time ago in all the details. But the main direction of Dmitry Ivanovich's activity after leaving the university, of course, was metrology. On the initiative of the same Minister of Finance Vyshnegradsky, Mendeleev was offered the post of head of the depot of exemplary weights and measures, an institution responsible for the development of measurement standards for length and weight. And so that you understand how acute the metrological issue was in the empire at that time, just imagine that then the people also measured length in spans, elbows and fathoms, which, as you understand, is completely impractical; everyone's elbows are different. This, in turn, gave rise to a huge number of shortcomings, losses and outright abuses both in industry and trade. It was necessary to develop clear standards for length and weight, which were planned to be introduced throughout the entire empire. For this, a major scientist was needed, knowledgeable in precise measurements, and also possessing remarkable organizational skills. So Vyshnegradsky, without hesitation, invited Mendeleev to head the depot, in the position of chief custodian, and Dmitry Ivanovich readily agreed. And preparing a plan for a serious reformation, our hero decided to start with the most basic things. He decided to transform the depot of exemplary weights and measures into the Main Chamber of Weights and Measures, and his position from custodian to manager. So Mendeleev emphasized that now everything will be different, the office is now a progressive institution, but as soon as he took office, Vyshnegradsky suffered a blow and resigned for health reasons. As Minister of Finance, he was replaced by Sergei Yulievich Witte, already familiar to Mendeleev, so he had already signed the order to transform the Depot into a Chamber, and it is worth saying that Witte also provided all possible assistance to the work of the Chamber and did not interfere in the scientific part of the process for lack of proper knowledge, although and understood perfectly how important metrological issues are in economics. At that time, there were no common systems of measurement in the world at all: America had its own, in England everything was measured in feet. In the Russian Empire, the weight system was based on a pound divided into 96 spools, and the measure of length was based on a fathom, which in turn was divided into three arshins, or 48 vershoks. But in France, a new decimal system was recently invented in which one forty-millionth of the Parisian meridian was taken as a unit of length, some strange unit of measurement that received an even stranger name - the meter. And although now this word is more familiar to us than any fathoms or cubits, at that time the metric system had big problems. Firstly, the imperfection of geodetic research quickly showed that the Parisian meridian was calculated incorrectly and, therefore, the unit of measurement of length too. Secondly, any country that adopted the metric system had to turn to France to obtain a standard meter, and this already depended on diplomacy. That is, if you want to adopt the metric system, well, my friend, be so kind as to be on good terms with France. But despite all these difficulties, Dmitry Mendeleev was an ardent supporter of the metric system due to its decimal division, which, according to him, would be understandable to both Russians, Yankees, Arabs and Jews. But he understood that it would not be possible to take and implement a completely unusual system in the empire, so he decided to start by renewing the standards arshin and pound And this is not such a simple job as it might seem. The gold-plated standards created under Peter the Great were lost, the copper standards made fifty years before Mendeleev were completely deformed and were of no value, and the platinum ones made more recently due to technical limitations were an alloy of heterogeneous density and did not meet the required accuracy. Dmitry Ivanovich decided to make new ones and have them manufactured in England. The rough prototypes were ready in 1995, and there in London they were turned and polished, leaving a small excess for the final fit, which Dmitry Ivanovich was going to do in St. Petersburg. In the same year, ultra-precise scales were purchased in Vienna for weighing, and in the ward itself a special measuring room was equipped and... work began to boil. Now just evaluate the level of confusion in the process. The weight was placed on the scales and left for a day, the next day they came and took readings, not only of the scales, but also of the temperature, pressure, air humidity, and it was forbidden to enter the measuring room itself, a person could disrupt the temperature stability by his mere presence - The observer carried out all measurements behind a blank heat-insulating screen. And as a result, unprecedented accuracy was achieved, which Dmitry Ivanovich himself described for clarity as follows: if they brought a million rubles in gold to our room for weighing, the error would be one tenth of a penny. As a result, over seven years of work in the main chamber, three platinum-iridium pound standards and three arshin standards were created. Then the second stage of work began - bringing all weights and measures in the country into uniformity. Using the standards, first-class copies were made, which were stored here in the main chamber; second-class copies were already made from them, which were sent to verification chambers in the regions. And then metrologists prepared in advance by Mendeleev himself already produced industrial and commercial copies on site, which they used in everyday life and in production. At the turn of two centuries, the regulations on weights and measures drawn up by Mendeleev himself were approved, linking all the metrological activities of the country into one single network with general rules and operating principles. By 1906, 25 verification chambers were established in the empire in the central part of the country, in Siberia, Ukraine, the Caucasus, and in the regions of Central Asia. These departments verified 12 million weights and measures over five years, rejecting half a million of them. Dmitry Ivanovich undertook unprecedented metrological research, the result of which was the treatise "On the Oscillation of Scales," where he dispelled a huge number of opinions that were not believed even by great researchers. And the building of the main chamber of weights and measures, in which he worked, is now the All-Russian Institute of Metrology named after Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev Chapter 6 Now there is an opinion that the merits of Dmitry Ivanovich were pride exclusively within the Russian empire, and were not recognized and ignored abroad, in the West . The West abolished Mendeleev. In fact, such an opinion is infinitely far from the truth, because our hero spent almost his entire life constantly traveling on business trips abroad and wherever he went, he was solemnly greeted by scientists, industrialists and politicians. The whole world recognized the great discovery of the periodic law and the general contribution of Dmitry Ivanovich to the development of chemistry. Moreover, his achievements in the field of oil, metrological and economic research were deeply respected abroad . In 1889, the British Chemical Society invited Dmitry Ivanovich to give the so-called Faraday Lecture, in fact it was an honorary Michael Faraday Prize, which is awarded for exceptional contributions to physical or theoretical chemistry. Mendeleev was its sixth laureate and the first Russian chemist to be awarded this honor. In 1994, Oxford University awarded Mendeleev an honorary doctorate of law and in the same year Cambridge did the same, which was generally very rare to receive a degree at once from two, one might say, competing universities in Britain. In 1905, the Royal Society of London awarded Dmitry Ivanovich the Copley Medal, the oldest and one of the most honorable scientific awards in the world, which was once received by Isaac Newton and William Herschel. And don't think, the matter was not limited to Great Britain. Mendeleev was an honorary foreign member of the Academy of Sciences of Rome, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, Krakow, Bologna, the Belgian Academy, the American, Prussian, Swedish, and Scottish. He was included in the honorary membership of many chemical societies, petroleum, industrial, agricultural, medical and even astronomical. So the judgment that the West ignored Mendeleev is absolutely groundless. In the last chapter, I told you how Dmitry Ivanovich went to Rome to propose to Anna Ivanovna, and so they left Rome very soon, because the lovers simply could not be alone, Mendeleev was constantly recognized on the street... in Rome. The exact same situation was at home. Mendeleev was known to everyone from simple village people to imperial persons. Once, one general asked Emperor Alexander III to give permission for a second wedding, and when the emperor refused, the general hastened to remind Mendeleev that they had given permission for a second marriage, to which Alexander replied that everything was right, he was given permission, but I have a lot of generals, and Mendeleev is the only one I have. Dmitry Ivanovich was also known in the provinces, and our hero always communicated with simple rural peasants on equal terms and did not put himself above them. Once I even decided to visit my native land when I went on a business trip to Tyumen in 1899 . And when he appeared before the residents of Tobolsk, having accepted bread and salt, he bowed low and warmly greeted his fellow countrymen, among whom there were those who remembered him as a child. Warm memories of childhood and his mother instilled in Dmitry Ivanovich a very special attitude towards children. From his first marriage he had two children, Volodya and Olya, from his second, four children, Lyuba, Vanya, and twins Masha and Vasya, and he loved all his children madly. Hot-tempered and sometimes unrestrained with adults, he never raised his voice to children, always appealed to their reasonableness, never demanded or ordered anything, and as they themselves later wrote in their memoirs, he was kind, infinitely kind. He treated children with the greatest respect, because he saw in them the continuous work of thought, the beginnings of genius in absolutely every child, which often makes their actions incomprehensible to adults. What many took as trifles or stupidities of a child's imagination, he perceived with respect and saw the seriousness and importance of children's thoughts. Once, when a Siberian acquaintance and his son were visiting the Mendeleevs, at dinner Dmitry Ivanovich, out of habit, sat in his chair at the head of the table, to which the boy immediately shouted to him, sit on the chair, my dad will sit in the chair. It would seem very indecent and stupid for the owner of the house to be so insolent, and Anna Ivanovna was about to pull the boy back, but Dmitry Ivanovich stopped her with a gesture, moved to a chair, as the child demanded, and said, "For him, the most honorable and good person is his father. This must be respected. Of course, constant employment in the service did not allow our hero to spend all his time with his children. Yes, he did not engage in petty supervision, often did not delve into insignificant subtleties, but on truly serious issues he always provided support and expressed understanding, his heart was open to them. This was most clearly expressed in the eldest son Volodya, who was the favorite as the first-born. When Dmitry Ivanovich wanted to express that he appreciated something especially highly, he said "How I love Volodya" and this love was mutual - Vladimir understood our hero like no one else, and even in the most difficult life situations he was always on his father's side. Dmitry Ivanovich arranged for him to study in the naval cadet corps and Vladimir, even after his parents' divorce, remained to live in his father's apartment. And when a misfortune happened in his son's life - the girl he loved got married to someone else, Dmitry Ivanovich went to bow to the Naval Ministry and obtained an appointment for Vladimir to the frigate Memory of Azov, which was soon to make a long journey to the Far East. This was supposed to distract the son from mental trauma and opened up a great future for him, besides, the heir to the throne Nikolai Alexandrovich, the future last emperor, was also supposed to be present at the Memory of Azov, so the opportunity to acquire connections was opened up for the son. However, three years later in 1893, Vladimir had an acute conflict with the future admiral and, barely avoiding a tribunal, he left his military career. The son of a great scientist devoted himself to the development of the fleet, but now a merchant one, he received a position as an inspector of maritime education at the Ministry of Finance, and in 96 he married the daughter of the famous artist Kirill Lemokh, Varvara. Soon they had a son who was named after his grandfather, so another Dmitry Mendeleev was born, but now it's true Vladimirovich. But two years later something terrible happened. After long trips to the country's maritime academies, Vladimir somehow accidentally noticed a slight malaise... which turned into an influenza virus, now known as the flu. The course of the disease was complicated by pneumonia, and ten days later, on December 19, 1998, thirty-three-year-old Vladimir Mendeleev died. But the worst thing here is that our hero, Dmitry Ivanovich, did not know about it. The daughter-in-law wrote him letters about Volodya's illness and serious condition, but these letters did not reach her father. They were intercepted by Anna Ivanovna, Mendeleev's second wife, who decided not to bother her husband over trifles, saying that the guy had a cold, he'll get sick right now, and I won't bother Dmitry Ivanovich for nothing . But as it turned out, he didn't get sick... And so the next day after Volodya's death, the unsuspecting Dmitry Ivanovich and his wife arrived at the Mariinsky Theater for a performance in honor of a scientific congress in St. Petersburg. When he, accompanied by Anna Ivanovna, appeared in the box, a rustling sound swept through the hall, everyone turned to Mendeleev and whispered in surprise. It turned out that the message about Vladimir's death was published in the morning newspapers and all of St. Petersburg knew about the death of Mendeleev's son, except Mendeleev himself. People whispered how he could be in the theater at such a moment and smile calmly. Having found out what was the matter, Anna Ivanovna told her husband that she felt bad and asked to take her home, and only on the way back in the carriage did Dmitry Ivanovich find out everything. To say that this was a serious blow for him is to say nothing. The father was devastated and shocked so much that he could not even attend his son's funeral . He simply locked himself in his office from which inconsolable sobs could be heard for several days. Only five days later, having come to his senses at least a little, he decided to write a letter to his daughter-in-law Varvara, where he tearfully begged her to give little Mitya, his grandson, to him to raise, or at least to all move into his apartment together. But then Varvara's father intervened in the correspondence and rudely refused Mendeleev's request. The Lemokhs did not give the child away, but they did not save them either; a year later, three-year-old Mitya died of appendicitis. But in contrast to this terrible story with Vladimir, we can cite the story of our hero's daughter from his second marriage, Lyuba. As we remember, next door to the Mendeleev estate in Boblovo lived Professor Beketov, the same one who persuaded Feozva Nikitichna to give a divorce. So Professor Beketov had a grandson Sashka, who over time became friends with young Lyuba, and a little later fell head over heels in love with her and asked her to marry. And everything would be fine but this same Sashka is the great Russian poet of the Silver Age Alexander Blok Yes, for some this is not a surprise, but in this way two famous surnames in Russian history were united . However, before walking down the aisle, Lyuba had to tell her parents about this. And her conversation with her mother did not go well, but with her father it was the opposite: Dmitry Ivanovich calmly listened to her and asked what she thought she would live on ? 600 rubles a year, so he doesn't see any obstacles to this marriage. On August 17, 1903, Lyubov Mendeleeva and Alexander Blok got married in an old church in the village of Tarakanovo, Moscow province, and settled immediately nearby the estate in the village of Shakhmatovo. They lived happily and even though at one moment they had problems and even cheated, the relationship eventually improved and until the end of their days Alexander and Lyubov remained inseparable. 105 years later, in 2008, a monument to this couple was unveiled at this site. Dmitry Ivanovich valued his son-in-law very highly and spoke of his work as a gift. Mendeleev often stood up for Blok during attacks from literary critics, positivists, who said that art should not be discussed so shallowly. There are deep areas of consciousness that should be treated more carefully, otherwise we will not understand anything. In turn, the poet responded with the deepest respect for the scientific merits of his father-in-law. In his letters to Lyubov Dmitrievna, he wrote "Your dad has long known everything that happens in the world. He has penetrated everything, and nothing is hidden from him. His knowledge is the most complete and it comes from genius; this does not happen with ordinary people. All this knowledge lies very heavily on him, and when he sighs and groans, every time he sighs about everything together, because he has nothing separate or fragmentary - everything is inseparable. What others say is almost always boring to him, because he knows everything better than anyone else. But he treated his mother-in-law, who was initially against the marriage... well, to put it mildly... with open and poisonous hatred. Although no, that's probably putting it too mildly. In 1911, after the death of Dmitry Ivanovich, in his diaries Blok wrote: a theme for a novel. A brilliant scientist fell violently in love with a pretty but empty-headed Swede. She fell in love with his temperament, but without loving him himself, due to the vile duality characteristic of women. The Chukhonka, who was given comfort and the means to live, began to flutter in the world, very innocently, however, she paints pictures, and is friends with Repin and is friendly with the rich merchants. Before the wedding, the lover in marriage is a hater, she is an empty woman, although not without character, she cannot handle either a brilliant husband or four children, each of whom is extraordinary in their own way . Yeah, it's nice. And although this is of course some overkill, and Anna Ivanovna was only a quarter Swedish, there is still some truth in these words. At least the assertion that she lost her feelings after the wedding is not without foundation; Dmitry Ivanovich's second marriage was not happy either. Quite quickly, the relationship became strained due to the same hot-tempered nature; Anna was jealous of her husband's former family and was irritated by his closeness with Volodya, which in some way explains, although does not justify, her decision to intercept letters about her son's illness. In turn, Dmitry Ivanovich did not forgive her for this betrayal and apparently at that moment his heart finally slammed shut for his second wife. In general, with regard to Mendeleev's attitude towards women, even if not in a romantic sense, our hero stands out greatly among his contemporaries. And the point here is that Dmitry Ivanovich was not afraid to entrust complex scientific work to a woman. In 1998, Olga Erastovna Ozarovskaya was accepted into the staff of the Chamber of Weights and Measures and, without any condescension or arrogance, she was immediately entrusted with complex computational work and she did it. Soon her friend was hired as a staff member , then another girl, and then another and another, and the female part of the team really transformed the entire team. As Mendeleev wrote to his colleagues: take the young lady to your laboratory. This is useful for softening morals; we haven't been swearing for five days now. Somehow they became cleaner. When someone in the ward was interested in the calculations, Mendeleev immediately redirected that you should contact the young ladies, the young ladies, they were on these calculations... ummm, they ate the dog. And it's not me who is grimacing now; Ozarovskaya notes in her memoirs that Dmitry Ivanovich softened the expression because "the dog was eaten" was somehow very rude for such beautiful creatures. But in addition to calculations, he highly valued women's work in matters of reconciliation of weights and measures, because, as he wrote to the Minister of Finance, the trustee is required to be extremely careful, which is precisely what is characteristic of women. Moreover, he insisted that females be included in the verification chambers in the regions of the empire . Mendeleev deeply sympathized, as they said then, with the women's issue and the first attempts of women to move towards emancipation. He personally knew the first Russian women doctors and scientists and regularly lectured on chemistry at higher women's courses. But here we are of course not talking about healthy feminism or equality, no. Mendeleev simply believed that certain types of work were more suitable for women due to their innate skills and talents. He believed that in some areas young ladies are much more productive than naughty men, and in others they can never compare with men. But for the beginning of the 20th century, this was already very progressive. Well, combined with a sharp character, this gave birth to a completely unique work team. Any visitor to the Chamber of Weights and Measures was amazed at the menacing voice of Mendeleev, who harshly communicated with his subordinates, but this was only an appearance. The entire team understood that although Dmitry Ivanovich is demanding and can be rude or yell, he deeply respects and values each of his employees. Once, after completing long and complex measurements, Dmitry Ivanovich decided to reward his team and send absolutely the entire staff of the chamber, including a mechanic and a carpenter, to Paris for the world exhibition . When Witte saw the list of 16 people, he gasped and immediately wrote "refuse" on the petition. And literally the next day, Dmitry Ivanovich came to the minister's secretary and put his resignation letter on the table. Either they are going to Paris, or you won't have Mendeleev. And so the secretary carefully enters Witte's office, and hesitantly begins from afar, "Sergei Yulievich, tell me, if the lady you love said buy me 16 rolls of colored ribbons or I I'll throw myself out the window, what would you do? - Of course I would buy it - Yes, Sergei Yulievich, me too. Only this lady, whom you and I both love very much, is Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev, and he is resigning if we do not send sixteen of his employees to Paris. Witte laughed, crossed out what he had written yesterday "refuse" and wrote on top "execute." So from the outside it might seem that Mendeleev's management methods were despotic, but in fact it was a real family, friendly and devoted to their mentor. But even though Dmitry Ivanovich was not a timid person, the years gradually took their toll. His seventieth birthday was approaching , and ward staff often came to his office to find him lying on the sofa. In a slightly guilty tone, he said, " You'll forgive me for listening to you while lying down, report back." Gradually, colleagues noticed a deterioration in vision when Dmitry Ivanovich began signing papers in the wrong places. Just as our father once developed cataracts, so did our hero, and soon his left eye practically ceased to see. In November 1903, it was decided to have an operation and the chief doctor of the St. Petersburg eye clinic did a brilliant job removing the cataract, but for almost a month he ordered Mendeleev to wear a blindfold , depriving him of the ability to see anything at all. From idleness, the always active and energetic Dmitry Ivanovich simply climbed the wall. Children, friends and colleagues, in order to brighten up these weeks at least a little, read books aloud to him for many hours, and Ozarovskaya in her memoirs, as if a little apologetically, tells us that Mendeleev could not stand Russian classics with their deep plots, preferring foreign detective and adventure novels to them . In particular, he loved the works of Dumas: "At that moment the knight stood up, waved his sword, and six landsknechts lay prostrate on the floor of the tavern." Oh, this is clever - Dmitry Ivanovich reacted vividly - not that we will kill once a person and two volumes of torment, thereby hinting at Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment - and here, on one page, six people were killed and no one is pitied. Reviews about Tolstov were no better: "Torment, torment, nothing but torment. I can't, I can't read it." That is, Mendeleev was not trying to say that he did not respect Russian literature, it was just that all these descriptions of mental torment burdened him too much, he wanted something light and not burdensome. As they say, we have enough of our own problems. MENDELEEV AT THE TABLE YOU PLACE A PHOTO WITH A SUITCASE But what Dmitry Ivanovich really became interested in during the period of his blindness was manual labor. With great diligence , he made tables, frames, and stools just by touch . He hemmed and bound books with leather and, of course, made... suitcases. Oh yes, I know you were waiting for this! A famous legend about a famous suitcase maker, which seems to be true, but not entirely. Mendeleev was really interested in cardboard craft for a long time, but during his forced vacation he plunged into this business headlong. With pride, he showed his creations, including suitcases, to Ozarovskaya and said, "Look, Olga Erastovna, how everything is measured correctly, but I don't see anything, sir. This is what human hands can do if only he wants. He also loved to talk about one anecdotal incident, which formed the basis of the legend. Once he was buying materials at the mint, and one of the store visitors, amazed by the unusual appearance of Mendeleev with a blindfold, asked the seller "Who is this?" And this, the merchant answered importantly, is a famous, famous suitcase master. And this part of the legend is true, although it is of course difficult to say how reliable the anecdote told by Mendeleev is . I can't help but remember the story with Inostrantsev, to whom Dmitry Ivanovich told how he dreamed of a table. But in Ozarovskaya's memoirs, written twenty-six years later, there is another episode in which Dmitry Ivanovich was engaged in the sale of these same suitcases right within the walls of the Chamber of Weights and Measures. And now, apparently, this is fiction, at least because... well, why? Mendeleev was a wealthy man in an honorable position; he simply had no need to push suitcases. In addition, he was constantly in the field of view of newspapermen, who regularly came to him for another brilliant interview in the spirit of how did you come up with the idea of the periodic law. And would they really have missed the fact that such a prominent person was openly involved in suitcase speculation? No, of course not, this is such a juicy news opportunity to once again stir the dirty laundry. If this were true, then all the newspapers would trumpet it, but no, we see absolute silence from the press. That's all. Perhaps you were expecting some funny story or loud refutation, but as always it turned out that the reality turned out to be a little simpler and maybe even more boring than the popular legend. He may have been a master of suitcases , but it just didn't go beyond the scope of a hobby, and when the blindfold was removed, Dmitry Ivanovich returned to his previous occupations and, as far as can be judged, did not return to the cardboard craft . Well, in general, 1904 came. On January 27, Dmitry Ivanovich celebrated his 70th anniversary, numerous congratulatory delegations, from ministers, from universities, even from the Academy of Sciences with which, as we remember, Mendeleev had a difficult history of communication. And finally, when all these tedious ceremonies were over, all the employees of the Chamber of Weights and Measures gathered in the laboratory and had their own modest celebration with sandwiches and hot chocolate, which they drank, as Ozarovskaya recalls, chemically, that is, from cones and flasks with filter paper instead of napkins . Dmitry Ivanovich stood touched by the congratulations and dejected by the news from the morning newspapers. On this very day, the Japanese fleet attacked Russian ships stationed in the roadstead in Port Arthur. On this very day, January 27, 1904, the Russian-Japanese War began. He took this news very personally and very deeply. He was not a supporter of wars and bloodshed, but here we were talking about an attack on the Russian Empire, so he even once said that if the Japanese reached St. Petersburg, he himself would go to serve. He loved his country and was ready to defend it even at that age. Of course, there was no talk of fighting for St. Petersburg, and besides, Dmitry Ivanovich was absolutely sure of Japan's imminent defeat. But time passed, and there was still no good news from the front : the cruiser Varyag was killed, Port Arthur fell. All this said that a small victorious war would soon turn into a great shame. When the Russian squadron at Tsushima was defeated in May 1905, it became clear to everyone that the war was lost. For Mendeleev, this was a real blow, and besides, there were those who accused him of being overly self-confident about the imminent collapse of Japan. To these reproaches he replied: "I did not and do not approve of the war, I did not want to seize China and did not stop condemning it, I considered and continue to consider the sending of our fleet to Tsushima to be completely unreasonable. But I had confidence in the strength of my country, I do and will continue to do so, and I will not stop advising the attackers to fight back, although I write all the time about how you first need to arrange your home life." Under home life, Dmitry Ivanovich, of course, spoke about the internal problems of the empire, and first turn about the revolution raging in the country against the backdrop of a war that was not the most popular among the people. While the empire was suffering defeats from Japan on land and at sea, the entire country was in a fever of strikes and protests. On Sunday, January 9, priest Georgy Gapon led a procession of thousands to the Winter Palace , hoping to present Emperor Nicholas II with a petition about the needs of the workers. But the king was not in the palace, and when the protesters tried to break through the cordon, the police and troops met them with gunfire. According to various estimates, from one hundred to a thousand people died, although some sources inflated the figure to twenty thousand. As a result, history remembered this day as Bloody Sunday. While the shooting was going on and blood was shed, Dmitry Ivanovich could not find a place for himself. He walked in circles around the office muttering something under his breath, and suddenly he hurriedly got dressed, went out into the street, and got into a hired carriage and went to see Witte. Mendeleev demanded to stop the bloodshed, but Sergei Yulievich just threw up his hands and said that he now holds only the nominal position of chairman of the Committee of Ministers and he has no real levers of power capable of stopping this massacre. Dmitry Ivanovich returned home, without undressing, he took Witte's portrait from the wall, turned it to face the wall and said never remind me of this man again. The country was uncontrollably rushing towards revolution and Dmitry Ivanovich could not do anything. In Soviet historiography, it is customary to talk about Mendeleev as a supporter of the revolution, who himself did not realize this, or they simply carefully avoided this topic. In fact, our hero was a monarchist to the core and did not sympathize with revolutionary ideas at all. Ever since the assassination of Alexander II, he was opposed to bloody solutions to political problems. Of course, he saw numerous holes in the foreign and domestic policies of the empire, but he was a supporter of gradual changes, not radical violent ones. changes, the overthrow of the monarchy or bloodshed in the streets. All these events left a heavy imprint on Dmitry Ivanovich's heart, but he was still passionate about his work. He spent the entire 1905 on business trips: Moscow, Warsaw, Paris. On the day of the conclusion of the Portsmouth Peace with Japan, we find him in Berlin, and two months later he receives the Copley Medal in London. In December, he was back in Russia; Feozva Nikitichna, Dmitry Ivanovich's first wife, died in the arms of his daughter. At this time, he finished work on one of his last creations, a book called Treasured Thoughts. The work summed up all his many years of work and reflection on a variety of topics; it summarized his views on industry, education, trade, agriculture and the growth of humanity in general. In nine chapters, he discusses how he sees the future of the country, what it is necessary to strive for in order to develop, and not degrade, and one of the main points on this list is the education and training of new teachers and professors. What kind of schools do people need? What to teach in them? How to teach? How to select students and, even more difficult, teachers. After all, Dmitry Ivanovich devoted a huge part of his life to teaching and knew what he was talking about. In 1906, our hero's strength began to fail. Colleagues in the Chamber of Weights and Measures saw how the chief, with unsteady, weak steps, holding on to the walls, wandered into his office in the morning and rarely left it during the day. It was even less common to receive someone or talk to someone. He began to put his papers in order, preparing to hand over the work to the next chamber manager. He was not afraid of death. Dmitry Ivanovich lived a long and eventful life, worked a lot and now took stock, hoping to leave behind order, not chaos. One day, while going through papers, he came across a plan for a family burial at the Volkov cemetery. Mom, sister Olya and son Volodya. With a weak hand, he left a mark next to it on the diagram and wrote and put me here. On January 11, 1907, the main chamber of weights and measures was inspected by the new Minister of Trade and Manufactures, Dmitry Filosofov. Mendeleev decided to receive the high-ranking guest himself and personally demonstrate his possessions. After a tiring two-hour excursion, our hero personally escorted the minister to the carriage, returned to the office and an hour later, accompanied by an employee holding his arm, he headed to his apartment. The next day, Dmitry Ivanovich felt very unwell and, which was not very typical for him, asked to call a doctor, and he diagnosed... pneumonia. A whole week of painful coughing and a clear realization that this was the last illness in his life. But even in this state, the head of the Chamber of Weights and Measures did not stop working: he signed papers, ordered the sending of telegrams, and once even played chess with a laboratory assistant. On January 18, his health deteriorated sharply, so much so that he no longer went to work. A painful cough tore at my throat, and in rare moments I fell into a fitful sleep. On January 19, I spent almost the entire day in a state of oblivion, and only in the evening, when I came to my senses a little, I ordered someone to give him a comb, combed my hair myself, and fell asleep again. On the morning of January 20, 1907, at 5:20 a.m., the clock in the Mendeleev house was stopped. Dmitry Ivanovich died. One of the brightest lights of Russian science went out and there were no loud last words, there was no treachery of enemies and betrayal of friends on that day. He left quietly in his sleep, surrounded by people who loved him. A few days later he was buried in the Volkov cemetery exactly where he wanted. When a procession of thousands said goodbye to the great man, dozens of wreaths and a periodic table of chemical elements, torn off by students in the auditorium of a technical institute, made of cardboard, remained at the grave. A year later, relatives and friends erected a crypt over the grave: a granite block topped with a massive cross. Before the severe frosts, only the name of our hero was carved on the monument , but then everyone decided that there was no need to write anything else. No years of life, no scientific titles and titles, no big quotes, any addition would be superfluous. Only the name... Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev. Oh... that's the story we got this time. Yes, today we will not have half-hour afterwords and long conversations about the legacy of our hero. This legacy hangs on the wall in every chemistry classroom, but we saw how broad Mendeleev's personality was, how living his image was imprinted in world history. I sincerely admire this man and am proud that among the great scientists I told you about, Dmitry Ivanovich is now listed. This story is truly touching and inspiring and I hope you feel it as deeply as I do. After such words, it's a little embarrassing to talk about the fact that you need to like the video and that's all, but the reality of YouTube is such that I just have to say it and I won't switch to manipulations in the spirit of like it in the name of science. I'll just say it like it is: if you give it a thumbs up, comment, and share this video with your friends, more people will see this story. More people will subscribe to the channel and see other stories like this, which I still invariably do for you with my full dedication. And if you support me with boost, sponsor or donation alerts, you will be able to provide the budget for the next such video. By supporting the project, you do not make me rich, you make the videos cool, and as you may have noticed, I am steadily improving the quality of the content. Those who have already supported me have seen more than once that I always respond to more active support with a cooler next video. More than once I read that it's a pity that videos are released very rarely. Yes, me too, but you see the personal work of one person. I study the topic myself, write the script myself, make the props myself and direct the shot, and then edit it all myself. For better or worse, you can't make such videos quickly on your own. In general, we'll say goodbye to this, thank you for watching to the end, but that's all for today. Don't go overboard with the forty-degree standard, just yet.