[Woman singing] have been fascinated by African pottery for I first went to West Africa as a young Peace assigned to the national arts center of Ouagadougou, I immediately discovered that the potters were already extremely skilled and so I devoted to learning how they made pottery and work tourists. As an art historian I also discovered that African potters created an enormous range textures and patterns, and all sorts of colors They quickly fashion closed containers for or open containers for cooking. Small containers for holding palm wine or or large containers that never are moved Some of these jars are heavily decorated and then used as shrine pots for religious Others become darkened with decades of soot kitchens. African potters understand as fully as Western the almost magical plastic quality of clay molded, To make pottery you have to have good clay. All across Africa potters know where there of uniform clay that is free from foreign Sometimes the women themselves go out to collect but often they send their children with baskets. They must be very careful when digging for not to dig back so far into the bank that top of them. They carry the heavy clay back to the workshop [Speaking to each other] if the holes are so bigo walls are overburdened,o put their lives at risk.o In some areas the clay is filled with water absorbing as much water as possible in a process They break the clay up into small chunks and in a mortar then pound it with a pestle to They then sift the clay powder with the same In another area of the compound potters, or may be smashing up old broken pot shards between to produce a grainy material which is called this is clay that has already been fired once shrink. The grog is added to the powdered clay, to produce the clay body that can be used Here you see one of the daughters of the family She systematically circles, kneading the clay again. Mrs Konate is kneading grog into her fresh Among the Igbo people of Southern Nigeria and kneaded into a uniform mass using a pestle. The simplest and most obvious technique the ground Mrs. Konate in the village of Ouri in central has been making jars for decades. I first photographed her in 1983 and IAEve going back to visit her from time to time The last time I visited her in 2010, She begins by forming a flat pancake of fresh and then she slaps it down over the mold jar. She uses a beater in her right hand to spread out over the mold jar thinning it and spreading Mrs. Konate is the wife of a blacksmith her. [Metal clinking] around the base and then shapes that with into a flat bottom that will support the pot When it is the right thickness and it has to its widest dimension, she carefully trims to make it uniform and sets it aside to dry She must be careful not to leave it for too or it will begin to crack as it shrinks on When it is stiff enough so that it wonAEt sometimes with the help of another woman in The concave mold technique is the first technique when I first went to Africa as a Peace Corps I had studied pottery in college but I had such an unusual and innovative technique. The potter has a shallow depression, her workshop, so that she can go from work to cooking after The depression is only about an 8th of a sphere yet she is able to use it to form a fully She kneads fresh clay into a thick round mass She then uses a mallet in her right hand it and spreading it. [Speaking together] Of course she quickly fills up the shallow she rotates the mass of fresh clay up on edge, to pound. She rotates and pounds, rotates and pounds, From time to time she stops and uses her fingers of the opening. Occasionally, when she discovers that she she adds a fresh coil around the rim and continues The technique produces a very thin, light, [Slapping clay] and uses a coil of fresh clay in the opening At this point, the jar is almost complete She carefully consolidates the rim Like all American and European potters, my fingers Of course they made a thump instead of a ring I thought it would be nice to teach them Then I discovered that they didnAEt want high-fired because the low-fired earthenware they made while higher fired pottery would shatter It soon became apparent to me represent appropriate technology; to make pottery that suited their needs, or expensive resources. The variations on African pottery shapes, In this example from the Nyakusa people in we see large hemispheres of bright red against The sharp joint around the middle portion makes it appear as if it had been formed in This pot from the Zande people of Northern certainly looks a little bit phallic This beautiful jar from the Baule people has around the lower portion and bands of lizards The Zulu are famous for their elegant black which may have incised or impressed patterns, or owarts.o pots I love the contrast and color between the and the lighter body of the jar. This jar from the Nyanja people of Malawi, it has a broader neck on a low, round body. The Bamileke people in Cameroon are famous This beautiful example has two strings of around the shoulder of the jar. The elegant flaring rim has been modeled by not turned on a potterAEs wheel. The Mambila live along the Benue River in and produce large powerful jars like this Large bumps that look like Zulu owartso are modeled into a human figure. The upper portion of this Nupe jar is decorated been This Nupe jar with one chamber above the other This small jar from Nigeria It was almost certainly a shrine pot. Lobi women in Burkina Faso make beautiful which they stack one above the other in their to hold supplies, food, and even valuables. Here is as in many of the jars the dark color, fuel introduced This broad jar from Malawi is decorated The surface of this Igbo jar has been roughened surface This jar has been decorated in the same way, areas un-roughened. A beautiful large Idoma jar from just north Another from the same people with irregular I personally much prefer this evidence that was actually made by a human hand, of mechanical device, You see the same use of irregular patterns from southern Burkina Faso. An amazing jar from the Mama people, with I would be fascinated to know what such an An Igbo jar with fine lines of raised decoration. This jar from Cameroon has been reinforced Many shrine jars have added figures in relief. But the depth of the relief on this Mambila And another from the Mambila in Cameroon The Bamana people of Mali are masters A jar from Nigeria with what appears to be either an umbilicus or genitalia. The same patterns are more easily visible Almost certainly a palm wine jar from southern Many of the people along the Benue River This jug from the lower Congo may be modeled Another similar jug, but with the brilliant The Songye people of Central Congo are famous With two swelling areas, one just below the and another at the belly of the pot. A small jar for palm wine with a beautifully A very simple but elegant jar from northeastern A small dish for serving food, with a human This large jar from the Bamana people has a glossy upper portion with serpents. This beautiful Zulu beer pot shows the raised which they call oAmasumpa.o And another, from the Mambila people. I think this is the first jar from the Makonde and IAEm very impressed by the quality of East African potters seem to be much more on perfect symmetry then potters in West Africa, Sometimes the black color is caused by years but more often from conscious blackening in The rough owartso on this beer pot must must have made it much easier to handle when A Nupe container with two breasts and an umbilicus. People all along the Niger River in Mali and produce large, very colorful jars. This one has a lovely dark fire cloud This Ewe shrine pot from Togo is decorated of signs and symbols of the coastal religion Finally, a lovely jar from Nigeria with a produced during the firing. One of the most common and ubiquitous techniques Some people in Africa use the coiling technique while other potters use it to add new material they have started to form using other techniques. First, Mrs. Konate in the village of Ouri with a sharp tool to remove dry material to it. She then forms the large thick sausage of and holding it in her right hand inside the applies it against the heel of her left hand, As she applies the clay, she gives the sausage which consolidates the fresh clay into the Ewe potters who make small jars in Nigeria lighter sausages of clay, while Igbo potters sausages of clay, as they make a complete revolution around Now she is adding a coil to the exterior, so that she can form it into a large symmetrical The jar is way too large to rotate, so instead, I am sure that there are potters in Nigeria to be used for soaking Cassava, or brewing These Ewe potters in southern Nigeria are Because the pots are small, the potters can while they use coils to increase the dimensions Here she scrapes clay from the base up, [Animal noises] She has thinned the base out and now [Chicken clucking] These artists are extremely deft; right hand Consolidating it with the edge of the jar Once the basic shape of the jar has been completed building the walls of the jar up higher and and scraping them with a shell to spread and She scrapes the sides of her jar upward with [Animal noises] with the knuckles of her right hand on the outside with her left hand. Finally she adds another coil around the edge which she can then shape into a flat edge She smooths the interior of the jar with a shell. [Animal noises] to make it nice and smooth and uniform. Now she begins to impress small delicate patterns [Birds chirping] as a roulette it a rough texture, to handle. This is a jar for smoking fish. Until I met Maria Kafando in 2001, of pottery making available in Burkina Faso. Maria is an elderly lady about 50 miles south of Ouagadougou. She has been making pottery all of her life and her grandchildren with the income from [Speaking in her language] and then uses the convex mold technique to She forms several of these small thick hemispheres where she places a spherical mold inside each She uses a mallet in her right hand to thin and spread it over the mold. But she does not stop when she reaches the Instead she continues to spread and thin the until she has almost completely covered the At this point her technique becomes truly because she performs four small episiotomies and removes the mold from the interior. She folds the edges of the incisions on top and then inserts a smaller mold inside the and begins to tap again; repairing the tears. She works with the small clay form, jar with her right hand holding a concave mallet, As she does so the jar becomes thinner and but retains its very symmetrical, spherical She carefully trims around the rim of the it out. Maria then adds a thick sausage of fresh clay jar Finally she uses a wet piece of cloth to shape to thin it and flare it while she rotates She does all of this while holding the jar and without placing it on the ground or on [Speaking in her language] she takes it out into a court yard fresh clay of strong baobab seeds. Two years after I made this video, Diamitani where she gave demonstrations of her pottery to a congress of potters, artists, and anthropologists. At the end of the trip she was quite exhausted a woman, who had barely left her village before, Air France I met the artist Awa Diabite Faso in 2001. She is a member of a group of artists called whose husbands are leather workers. There were several related men in this village all of whom were skilled potters. Awa begins with a large mass of clay her knees. She forces her fist down into the mass of and then using the fingers of her right hand and her left hand outside the jar, thinning it and increasing the height of the She rotates the jar on the shallow dish while [Children speaking to each other] as she can adds more clay She adds a coil to the rim and rotates it and make it uniform. As she forms the rim she rotates the pot fact, this is not a true wheel. [Baby laughs] a sharp ring of raffia midrib the rim and body. [People speaking in background] to the exterior of the jar with a corncob-roulette. Asante potters use the very same technique with the major exception that they form the of the pot completely before they turn it and finish the pot from the bottom upwards. On this rainy day in Kumasi I only had time the first half of pottery production which the forming of the upper half of the jar. Had I been able to stay and had it not been I would have filmed her completing the pot She scoops out the mass of clay at the center Now she pulls the clay from the inside of with her right hand upward to form the upper She uses a very large think coil of clay the jar. [People talking in background] You can hear the rain on the plastic that [Baby crying] background pot. She uses a dried corncob to smooth the exterior African potters fire in the open, with the modern potters who have been taught western by visiting technicians from Europe or America. African potters do not use kilns, shallow depression. Occasionally potters will construct low circular in which they place their pottery, and the extra cold air from blowing into the fire. Potters use whatever fuel is available; dried grass from the fields beyond their homes, cutting firewood, south They never use expensive fuel such as gas All of the women in the community work together firing. If several women work together each may identify the clay In some cases they all work together to fire of just one of the women. In this case, they are all working to fire Awa Diabite is wearing a green and white checked The fuel is lighted and allowed to burn freely. In Pelignan , you see some of the women to slow down too rapidly. They also take care not to let the fire spread In a short time the fuel has been reduced The pottery bakes underneath this for some until it is a bright glowing red. While it is still hot the potters hook out and dip the hot pottery in a kind of vegetable made of boiled Acacia seed pods. This process drives excess carbon deep into of the hot pottery, turning the jars This is very similar to techniques used The process makes the pottery more suitable more waterproof. The process turns the red ferrous iron Fe3 This is the firing of Igbo pottery in Ishiagu in Ebonyi State south of Enugu, Nigeria. The firing has been completed and the potters Here the women of the Bamogo family in Dablo Mrs. Bamoga poses with her pots. All African artists are extraordinarily creative. The women who make pottery in Africa Look at any catalog of African pottery for in Chicago, or New York, or San Francisco, asked Scholars say that Africans donAEt have a word I say Westerners donAEt have a word for art. What is art? Westerners say art is something thatAEs never art for artAEs sake. What sort of art is never used? All art is used. African art is heavily used. My definition of art is something that is to express peopleAEs ideas about the world In my mind this means Africans are the only who understand art and that we, the Westerners, for art.