Translator: Tanya Cushman About two decades ago, I found myself in a seminar who was renowned for his research on motivation, teaching and learning. I'd no business being there; it had nothing to do but I found it had everything to do What I learned in that seminar and in the myriad of discussions has been a real gift to me. It changed my understanding It made me think back where I'd mastered the craft the mind games, the rationalizations, the justifications - anybody know about these? Oh, some experts in the room. And so that gift is something at least some of that. This quote captures a certain perspective, lots of ways to approach it. We can think of it but I want to ask you to consider and look for the deep so that we can overcome that in our lives and in our work So my hope for you is a very different understanding And this is important; it's not just how we think about it in terms of conceptual which I'm going to teach you, but also to understand it I want you to think It's not a sign of weakness. It's not a flaw. It's actually pretty predictable. It's something we can really expect if we understand and the circumstances It's not surprising that we see because you can't spell procrastination Anybody notice that before? So what is about a circumstance, a place like Princeton that leads to procrastination? Well, one is that we're highly selective. And schools, all schools, evaluate us. So it's an evaluative environment We're often competing with one another. Often, there's limited rewards More people want A's In those circumstances, we can fully expect that people the meaning of not getting that reward, the meaning of not getting for their self-concept It's not just the grade It's more than that, and I think So today I want to explain that, and, again, I want that but I want you to apply it as I've applied it to my own. Whether you're a teacher all of this can be helpful in understanding the dynamics So I want to tell a little story, and if you procrastinate, So here's the setting. It's 11:00, you're in your dorm room, And so, it's been maybe not too productive. So you sit down at your desk, to get started to tackle this paper, and then you think, &quot;I'm going to check my email, get that out of the way.&quot; Anybody ever done that? So 45 minutes later, You've done a really good job of that. But now you realize, I'm kind of exhausted, You know, tired, exhausted - What do I need? I need to go to sleep. Yeah, that's what I'll do. I'll go to sleep, get rested, tackle that paper, ready to go.&quot; So what do I do? I set my alarm. I feel kind of bad, so I overcompensate: to make up - (Laughter) You're thinking right now, &quot;How did he know? Does he (Laughter) This story's about me. That's how I know. And so I wake up extra early - or I shouldn't say I wake up extra early - I hit the snooze, I think, &quot;You know, the whole point I'm tired.&quot; Not only do I hit the snooze again, I turn off the alarm Because if I'm going And so time passes. I wake up an hour before my first class, and I think, &quot;You know what? That's not quite enough time What can you get done in an hour?&quot; So what I start to do, I think to myself, &quot;You know, I have that thing to do; I need to do it now. And I really just need something so I can feel that satisfaction.&quot; Sound familiar? So I knock that off my list I have a full day, maybe That conversation and I find myself back it's 11:00, and I haven't done So now, not only have I not made progress, I'm behind, and I feel But nonetheless, I know what I have to do: make that sprint to finish this paper. And at some point, I just say to myself, &quot;You know what? I just because if I don't, that's bad. The humiliation of not completing it is worse than not writing the best paper So what leads to these dynamics? We could look at the surface level, but I want to look more deeply, And self-worth theory gives us a tool for doing that. So self-worth theory asserts, that the paramount psychological need is to be seen by ourselves and others So in a school environment, that means as good at math if that's our identity, as the excellent writer, bound for science. If we're a valedictorian, So self-worth theory says we need to be seen That's what we need to do. And because it's the primary we will actually sacrifice to realize or achieve or meet that need. And that's where procrastination comes in. So here's a way of thinking about it that kind of captures a simple model. Now, first I want to say about performance and ability, I'm not saying that this I'm saying that this is what Basically, we have that my performance determines Effort has a role in it, but ability, my innate capability excuse me, not knowledge - my innate skill at doing something, that's what determines And those achievements, determine my sense of self-worth, So in a sense, then, these things So people who are people who procrastinate a lot - I put myself in that category, have a kind of simplistic Their performance is equal, which is equal, or equivalent, their self-worth as a person, So we go from a grade on a test and to the people we love and care about, So with that understanding, we can see how procrastination &quot;I don't like this activity &quot;I never liked physics That's probably not the case. Often, people procrastinate They're fascinated by physics, but when it's 11:00, you're not loving that. You're just trying to get it done. So it's important to understand a couple of things about procrastination One of them is that we can't simply forego We can't just pick easy tasks and say, &quot;Well, I've achieved. So what this model shows We used to think, in psychology, that if you really wanted then you would not automatically But in fact, that's not the case. So not one dimension, one spectrum; You can approach a task, and at the same time You can want to succeed on it; you can also really fear So these are actually And many people at Princeton, where I used to work and where a lot actually are high on both dimensions. We really, really want to achieve. It's very important to us; we're driven. Maybe you've heard that word But we're also fearful of failure So we have two sources of motivation. So, in fact, procrastination, is we're overmotivated. We're overly striving And that's what we've learned, that procrastinators are actually not less motivated although that's what they say or &quot;I'm lazy&quot; or Those are really not typically the causes. What it is is a feeling of stuckness, two countervailing forces: we are driven towards success but we are strongly to avoid failure on the other. And we feel this stuckness, And many people describe procrastination an obstacle they can't get over. Does that sound right to you? The phenomenon of it: We are often agitated. We can't sleep, but we can't work. Right? So we have these countervailing forces, Until some moment and we say, &quot;If I don't start now, And the fear of not getting it done - I see the nod - exceeds the fear or to an exceptional standard or to as good as I did it last time. Because those of us who are perfectionists and procrastinate, we've often excelled and we can begin and feel that we must meet them each time. It's important, then, that we come to think about So self-worth theory looks at procrastination So a common way that we hear is as self-sabotage. We're handicapping ourselves; You can see from it's not self-sabotage; We're trying to protect ourselves, our sense of our self as able And we're willing to sacrifice Because self-worth Make sense? I want you to think think about procrastination a really nearly perfect strategy If we procrastinate on a task and then we don't achieve very well we have a built-in excuse. Right? &quot;I couldn't have achieved that, I only had two hours And you hear people doing that. Think about when you're standing outside what are people saying? &quot;I only studied three hours.&quot; &quot;I only studied two.&quot; &quot;Yeah, my computer froze; Everybody's explaining Why? Because if they don't achieve, not only for themselves but for others. But it's a brilliant strategy you get that A on that physics test - then you can conclude, &quot;I'm really smart. I thought I needed three hours; So procrastination is nearly perfect in its outcome even as we jeopardize our performance. We increase the chance Right? But we have it ready. So what our preparations is not so much our knowledge and our skill our ability to pull off stuff If that's not the definition I don't know what is. (Laughter) How do we overcome procrastination? What a lot of us to do is we try by saying, &quot;If I don't do this, &quot;Oh, this is going to harm We're actually increasing fear. And there's not a surprise There's actually some counterintuitive that we're going to recommend. So there's three broad categories. There's many, many, many more, but these three come from, self-worth theory in particular. So I want to underscore these. I want to do so first by talking about We know, from the research that gaining knowledge, being aware helps people overcome these things. To understand the roots of procrastination helps us weaken it. We know where it comes from: &quot;Ah, I can be aware of and see But another kind of awareness is to gain awareness What do approach motives We know when we're cleaning the night before the final exam that that's procrastination. But there are other times Is checking your email procrastination? Is studying or doing the task is that procrastination? A lot of times it is. So the more we know, the greater awareness we have we're more likely to overcome them. So we want to cultivate a stance, and say, &quot;What does this feel like? What am I experiencing? What am I thinking?&quot; So that we can then actively choose and what we're motivated by. And these next few strategies So the first one is to learn away from avoidance motivations So a lot of people think, Often, that's not the case. It's simply that their fears dominate There's a reason There's ideas you want skills you want to learn. There are benefits beyond school But we're not thinking of that. They're not in our minds, Motivation can only operate on us Because that's the nature of motivation. So how can we bring them How can we shift or tip the balance We can stack them up; we can think of all the reasons That's not to pretend it's simply so those come to predominate So what are some ways of doing that? I'm going to show you an example of my own That says, &quot;TEDx.&quot; This is my motivational to-do list because, believe it or not, I was scared I was anxious. Am I going to blow it? Is it going to look bad? So what did I do? I started writing down the things First, I wanted to think about this and as a way to experiment. So I wasn't thinking, It's an experiment - It's a little different way of talking. It lowers the expectations Another thought was, &quot;You know what? Maybe I can see this as not about me but as a service I'm helping people.&quot; For me, my motivational profile, takes the pressure off me: I want to be helpful. A third idea that was to tap into a deep, abiding, How does this fit with my mission? So I see my purpose in life, is to reduce suffering, specifically of students so that they can be more engaged and to thrive and flourish. And, in fact, that's a reminder and every day, I see it: &quot;Reduce suffering.&quot; Another idea was to make it small My thought about the whole thing: it felt too big. This may be familiar. We say, &quot;Slice it up into pieces.&quot; But make it small And so I started to do that. One way I did that was maybe I can make a very simple outline, and that gives me a sense of the whole. So those are some techniques not entirely - I'm still but to get moving, to get started, to make progress. And to enjoy it so much more. The last way we can tackle procrastination is by really challenging this equation it's flawed. Right? Our performance There are lots of times when our performance was less It's simply not representative. Sometimes it's another way round. Some of you had good you got an A when you didn't deserve it. So either way, that breaks But more importantly, your ability Think about the people you love people you value and care about. It's not because of their GPA That is not the case. Our worth derives from our human qualities and our vulnerabilities, which might be thought of as a weakness. So I want to leave you with one thought from Nelson Mandela. And he said, &quot;May your choices reflect your hopes This is absolutely approach-avoidance Can we be motivated not by pretending we don't have the fears but despite them? Thank you. (Applause)