In today's world, being able to focus is almost You rarely see anyone who's able to concentrate And the individuals who are able to focus, than other people. There are many areas where you could benefit Whether it's for school, studying, work or If you're able to focus you can get your desired So today I'll explain what's holding you back And I know you're procrastinating at this But I'll make it worth your while. So grab a pen and a piece of paper. Make sure to write down a few key points about This way you'll get the maximum value out And buckle up, because it's going to be a Let's dive in. We have two types of focus. Scattered focus and directed focus. Scattered focus is broadly distributed attention. This is your typical multitasker, trying to Cleaning the house, while talking on the phone, Or someone who's trying to focus on one thing, at the same time. And this is what most people do. They divide their attention towards many different The problem with this type of focus is that multiple things at once. You see, when you switch from one task to Instead your brain has to &quot;load&quot; the context memory. When you're constantly shifting your attention your brain to load and re-load context over Essentially you end up wasting a ton of mental exhausted without getting much done. Now on the other side we have directed focus. You achieve it by directing your attention This is what you should aim to achieve and They concentrate on one thing at a time, like And they do that thing to the maximum of their So what can you do to avoid scattered focus? It's simple. You should aim to remove all distractions harm your concentration. Let's look at it this way. Let's say you have 5 units of focus available That means you can use those 5 units in any For example you could use them all on studying, Now let's say your mom enters in your room, dinner will be ready in 45 minutes. Even if you were super concentrated and even your attention is now divided. Dinner will now be on your mind and your focus One of the focus units was used on that dinner, It's now going to take some time before you're end up wasting your mental energy in the process. Now the funny thing is you're most likely you all the time. Your phone. This tiny device is the biggest anti-focus It rings, it vibrates and whenever you get That beep is all it takes, to take your mind But even if your phone is on silent, you're you feel bored. Thus, dividing your attention. Of course, this doesn't mean you should throw Instead I'm simply suggesting that whenever put it somewhere, where you know it won't That being said, cellphones aren't the only Anything can do that, but your phone is probably The point is to become aware of the possible Another thing that could be effecting your This is something that is not considered often. However if you want your mind to function If you're sleeping under 7 hours per day, On the contrary, it's been shown that getting to focus during the day. Exercise is also something that should be Thanks to the release of dopamine, norepinephrine, ability to focus on difficult tasks improves. By exercise I don't mean going out and running is already sufficient. Bonus points if it's a walk in nature. Hydration is also very important. You might have noticed that when you wake right away. One of the reasons is because you hadn't drank dehydrated. Your diet plays another big role in your performance. If you're indulging and stuffing your face doing your brain a disservice. Food that is high in sugar content leads to You might want to look into some healthier So if you want to focus easier, make sure Now let's take a look at how to build your It should be noted that concentration is a You can actually train your focus, like you The more you do it, the better you get at When you start, you might be able to focus But when you do that day after day, your ability able to do it for longer periods of time. So if you can't concentrate for hours right You can train your directed focus over time. And the best way to practice your focus, is concentrate intensely on just one task. Basically you want to make concentration a A lot of us are waiting for the opportunity motivated and when all the planets are aligned, But that's the wrong approach. Instead it's way better to have a dedicated concentrate on one thing for as long as you You then want to protect that block of time. The best time for focus is in the morning, Usually that's when you're fully awake and that require your attention. Plus, at that time you typically have no distractions be distributed. This time of the day has been utilized by But what about the afternoon? Well you see, if you've had a busy day, your in many different directions. And your brain is heavily stimulated. That's why it's so much easier to focus in Your brain has been resting for 8 hours after So if you decide in the middle of a distracted demanding task, for example studying, you'll Your mind will already be occupied with other Such attempts will therefore frequently fail. But that doesn't mean it's impossible to focus You just need to un-stimulate your brain. And you do that by taking a proper break. You see, it's very hard to concentrate on getting mentally tired. And it doesn't matter if it's scattered or Both are exhausting. That's why you need to take a break and give However, this is where most people slip up. You see, taking a break doesn't mean pulling or whatever. You're still stimulating your brain and you're your mental energy, instead of recharging What you should do instead, is go for a walk, These activities allow you to un-plug and they're not as stimulating. I know it might sound boring, but you should some breathing room. Of course taking a mental break isn't just focus to directed focus. It's also very useful when you want to extend Another way to look at it, is to imagine you've Then you have a 15 minute break, before you'll You can choose to: A.) sit down, relax and Or B.) jump rope and do burpees for 15 minutes. Obviously you choose the option A, as you You want to have enough energy to run for In this case running is an analogy for focus. When you've been focusing for 1 hour, you You'll just tire yourself out mentally if So find an activity that suits you, that's to disconnect. Personally my favorite thing to do is to go It helps me recharge mentally every time. Now the perfect technique that ties intense technique. I already made a video on this method, but It goes like this: You choose a task that Then you set a timer for 25 minutes and do When the timer rings, you take a 5 minute When you've completed four 25 minute sessions, of 30 minutes. Of course, it doesn't have to be so rigid. 25 minutes of work and 5 minutes of rest are You can do it for however long you feel like, For example when I'm creating my videos, I take a 15 minute break. So you should experiment a little and find If you made it this far into the video, good Your focus is already better than most people's. Because this was a long video, I'll quickly 1st. We have two types of focus: scattered focus You want to achieve directed focus, while 2nd. The best way to avoid scattered focus is to Every time something interrupts you, it takes And your brain has to re-load the context 3rd. Take care of your body. If you want your mind to function properly, That means getting enough sleep, exercising you put in your mouth. 4th. Concentration is a skill. If you can't focus right now, that's fine.You train for a sport, and over time, you'll get 5th. Make focus a daily habit. Don't just wait around for motivation, instead focus intensely. Mornings are the most optimal, because usually not yet occupied with multiple things. 6th. Un-stimulate your brain. Meditate, go for a walk, or take a nap. Allow your brain to be bored and don't do This is especially important if you want to 7th. Take regular breaks. Focusing gets exhausting real fast. So give your mind a rest and you'll be able And make sure you're actually resting and 8th. Use the Pomodoro technique. It's the perfect method that ties intense If nothing else, make this technique your This is it for this video. Thank you so much for watching till the very Hopefully you've enjoyed it, and if you did, if you haven't done so already. Hopefully you'll be able to focus better than