- Oh, you have no idea what - No! - Oh my god. - That's extra? That's not extra. - Dude. - MrBeast and Simon just changed my life. - In this video, $100,000 will be given to completely swear on my life. And just to clarify, only I'm actually collabing with and so half of every donation He's doing $50,000, I'm doing $50,000. So together, $100,000 will If they win a game of If they lose, the money gets carried So if three people lose in a row, the fourth person gets You'll understand. So this is our first victim right here. We've already established it, not this game, the next If he loses, the person after - &quot;So nervous, you better not lose the next take when 10K is on the line.&quot; Dude, I need that fucking Oh, you have no idea what you - Nothing do with him but I so other people have to 'Cause that'd be like super intense. - You could buy a car - I could outright buy and pay for the next - Then you better win, man. This is not a joke. All he has to do to win 10 grand is win this game, that's it. - Stop reading and focus. - Dude, what if he died by like a trap? - Dude, I would feel so bad. Here comes the money - Stop reading and focus. This is the most important - Good old MrBeast just rocking - This is probably more the rest of the year Oh no. No, he did not just do that to him. Dude, this guy is insane. - This guy is insane. He did that without taking any damage. - I'm actually shaking, I can't aim. I'm shaking, dude. Legit. - Extra, no, no. - Fair enough. - Hey, if it makes you feel better, the next person gets to play for 20 grand. - Man, so I appreciate that 153. MrBeast with the 140, I appreciate it. - This next person plays That's a lot of freaking money, man. Oh, we could do mynameschai. He was in the last one. - Oh my god, he did it. - He did it. is it against the rules - There are no rules. We write our own rules around here. - Time for round two. - Check Simon's DM on Twitter. This time, the stakes are higher. Win the next game and you get $20,000- - Next game, yeah bro? - I did it before, I'll do - Is he gonna drink some orange juice? - I need my OJ, I need my sweet, sweet OJ. - Orange juice. - That better be orange juice. - Is that orange juice? - Shut up. - Hey Simon, do you think he will win? - Hey Simon, do you think he will win? I'm not too sure, man, but we are all winners thanks to Quidd. You are right. As long as I have Quidd - Oh, gunfight. $20,000. You can see he's starting - Boing. Dude, he went up like 11 people are standing - You gotta be downloading - He spelled it wrong, it's two D. We'll give him an A plus Timeout, before we go any further, I need to tell you guys where The king has returned, welcome home Quidd. The app that has sponsored all these videos you see on your screen. The app that has allowed me just to change an insane Now if you don't know what Quidd is, it's an app where you can and because there's a limited amount, you know they have a But regardless, &quot;Naruto&quot; I've seen all 500 episodes of &quot;Shippuden&quot; and when I saw they added I went insane and instantly It is my favorite show. But if anime isn't your thing, they have cards and stickers Like &quot;Game of Thrones,&quot; they and then you can take these and you can text them to similar shows or even cooler, A shelfie lets you showcase to all the other people which by the way if you I'll be messaging some of you guys back. Now there is something I When this video goes public, two packs will go public on Quidd, okay? A MrBeast pack and a Miniminter pack and we're having a competition to see which pack can get 100,000 But if you open up a MrBeast pack, you can't open up a Miniminter pack. If you open up a Miniminter pack, you can't open up a MrBeast pack. So you have to pick one or the other. I need you to go to the app store, download Quidd and open up a MrBeast pack so I can reach the 100,000 before him because I do And yeah, let's get back to donating. Oh, oh. - Wait, what? - I'm freaking out. Flashback to last time when I donated, his sister was like - &quot;Oh my god, you can pay rent.&quot; - Why'd you jump? You had a clear shot. Four people left besides him. No. - Since Chai lost, the next person now has If this person, bluesdank he gets $30,000. - Win this next game and you get $30,000 from - Okay, so next game, all right. 30,000 is a lot of money. Yeah, you could say that. - I want this guy to I want to make him more nervous but I don't at the same time. - Don't get nervous, it's only $30,000. - Shut up. Ugh. - If you win, you can buy over 10,000 copies of sherk. - Sherk? You spelled &quot;Shrek&quot; wrong, oh dear. I think we know who - I'm taking my 30 grand and I'm leaving. Thank you very much. I really want him to win, - I'm not gonna drink I'm not drinking the other half-shield. Yeah, I should download Oh yeah, you're right, thank you. No, oh! - No. Oh no. Oh my god, Jimmy, oh my god. Thank you for the $1,000 donation, my man. Or 768 pounds 50 pence. I could work as a cashier, - I didn't think people So we're doing 40 next? - Yep, that is a lot of money. But rules are rules. Every day I think about - MrBeast6000, &quot;Win next game and me and Simon donate 40,000, - Okay, I was just gonna donate, oh okay. About the money, let's go - &quot;It has to be solo Okay, let's go then, baby. - Not even joking guys, he wins No joke, no BS. All he has to do to get - Please. - Oh, what the ? - Dude, how is he this crazy? Where is he? Did he go to Mars? - I can't tell. - Yes, yes, yes. Yes, I had to kill him. No. - No! No, dude. No! - No, no. - My ears. - Sorry about the loss as well but the game ended, so have to move on. - Okay, MrBeast and Miniminter, listen. I appreciate you guys so much. - Don't make me nervous. &quot;I'm not joking.&quot; Ooh. - Wait, MrBeast. - It's 50,000. - Oh, 50. Wait. - Just say 40 so she doesn't it's actually $50,000, so I hope she wins. - If she loses, that and if they lose, that's 70. - &quot;[Streamer] Think of - Put the minis in the one slot. - What? - &quot;Boi, who puts minis in my first,&quot; I put minis in my first slot. - What is wrong with you? Ah man, screw you. &quot;40,000 could buy you a lot of stuff.&quot; - I hope she wins or I'm I know I said that about everyone but I just want to keep reminding you. If they lose, I'll feel really bad. - Ooh, she got a supply drop. - Just don't get comfy. &quot;Don't lose all your health.&quot; - Don't lose all your health. - That's how you win. - I can't look at Tilted, bro. My FPS drops to 40 every - Why? Use the 50 grand to buy a better computer. Three people left. I'm gonna remind her she has - I remembered, I got that. - All right, all right. - I'll just stand over here, See, I would say &quot;Why the are you shooting at someone so far away?&quot; But nope, nope, I'll just Oh, there's two people left. I'd let them fight it out. Honestly if I was her, No. - She's getting sniped at too. - Oh . Oh my god. Oh my god. - She has no clue where he is. Oh. - Oh. Oh dude, dude. Oh, dude. - Right beside you. - No Chris, no! - Ugh, oh well, he had 14 kills. - Simon. - Let's watch him win. - Yeah. - I was so confident, I was so confident. - I know. - What are we giving her? Let's give her 1000 each. - Dude. The party is on Let's go, shots, shots, Shots, shots for everybody - Opening parenthesis. Are you serious? Let's go, shots, shots, - There was a second place - No, there was it. - If you win a solo game, - Thank you for the tip, MrBeast. &quot;If you win a solo game, me I can win a solo game, just not like a specific Also I've had a beer. - Miniminter, thank you for the tip. &quot;You don't win the challenge, I know, that's a freaking lot of money. Let me put my lucky backpack on. - That is true, none of the That's probably why they all lost. - I'm tempted just to - She just said she's , my body believe those words. $60,000 and she's like &quot;I need to go to Tilted for the meme. I don't want 60 grand.&quot; - &quot;Think of what you Is this how it's gonna be? I'm gonna be distracted I could just play it safe, - Oh my god, no. What if she hits like a - It's not gonna happen. - She has 19 health in a firefight, bro. - Oh my god. - Oh well, what a shame. - Simon. - Why? - That was $60,000. - I just got a DM from Simon and MrBeast saying that they will donate me $70,000 if I win this next game of &quot;Fortnight.&quot; I am shaking right now. &quot;Good luck man, 70,000 is a lot of money.&quot; Calm down, Jack. You practiced for this moment. You've watched those MrBeast videos. What should I be doing? What else can earn me money right now? How many blinks in 15 seconds? Ah. That's gotta be worth some sort of money. &quot;Don't lose this, this isn't a joke.&quot; Oh, I know It's not a joke. - Dude, if he doesn't - MrBeast, &quot;It's Quidd, Thanks to Quidd, we all love Quidd.&quot; We love Quidd, download Quidd. Get stickers. There's three staples loving Quidd. - He nailed it. Pretty accurate. I'll probably never have my They will probably disown me. Win the tournament for one, go, P90. - Who needs a &quot;Fortnite&quot; Wow, luck is on his side. No bandies? He's too cool for bandages. He's like &quot;I don't need - There's already only 73 people left. - Dude, he got some I think he won. &quot;Spam Doritos as a snack to Jack.&quot; They're spamming Doritos. Honestly, I hope one day I can have a live stream chat that's When he's stressed, they give him Doritos. - This is so messed up, dude. Hey MrBeast, go back to making freaking, oh my god. - Freaking what? Say it. - I can't even think of a joke. &quot;Think of everything you MrBeast, stop dude, you're not helping. My hands are already shaking enough. Just actually stop, dude. I have almost 1400 wins. This is all I've done for the last nine months to prepare for this moment. - That's so true, that's the 21st century. Win a video game, two random - So if I get sniped right Llama. Oh, it's a sign. - What? No, dude. - I'm literally kicking my feet. Oh my god, oh my god. This is where it all goes down. - Just run, man, we're - We really won't. Someone took his Llama. Courageous, oh . - Oh, we don't like this - I don't like it. Dude, I'm nervous. He's gonna be out of med Oh no, this is not good, this is not good. - Oh dude, he's so low on med. - Oh, he's moving 'cause of the zone. - Live to fight another day, boys. - What? - All right, there we go. Hey yo Quidd, I'll link the PayPal, baby. I'll link the PayPal, Quidd. - Oh shit. I might be done now. - Not done yet, Quidd. - I will say out of everyone so far, he does look like the He has a really good loadout. - If I died of the zone here, MrBeast and Simon, can we - Aruba sounds good this Like that? Hey, y'all hear me loud and - Nope, sorry. What, what? - No, we are not 'fin to do that, kid. That ain't it, buddy. That ain't it, bud. I feel like I'm way more 'cause I genuinely want this guy to win. Jesus Christ. Wow. - Courage, calm down, man. - That ain't it, chief. - Just in case you weren't In case you guys didn't This next one might be That better be the top - I need materials so bad. Where the hell was that even from? Top 10, baby, let's go. Simon, you gotta stop, bro. - Do you think he's got this? - Honestly, I do think he's gonna win but I'm like genuinely nervous for him. I'm kinda starting to shake. - I know. Dude, like he seems so Like I really think he deserves the money. Jack, you've trained Don't let us down, man. - Yo, no matter what, MrBeast and Simon. - Yeah? Obviously you guys are collaborating but I mean especially MrBeast, what you've done for so many Dear Lord, if you're out there, whatever higher power everyone - He's like a little kid an adult which is what I like about him. - End on me, zone here. - Wait, what is that? - Half the zone's halved. - Dude, that's a tiny circle. - We gotta let these guys - Just hide in the trees. Jack, hide. Dude, he cannot land a shot. It's like a three-way - Oh no, no, no, no. - Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Jack, Jack, Jack, Jack. Jack, Jack! Jack! Jack, Jack, Jack, Jack, Jack. Oh, the zone's outside Okay, this is it. This is his chance. - He's gonna try and trap him outside. - Oh my god. - Oh my god. he trapped him outside, holy shit. - Oh my god. All right. Oh my god. Donate now. - So 35,000? Do it as quick as you can. - GG. - Wow. - What on earth? My mom's not even answering. Pick up the phone, mom. $35,000 donation, says &quot;Unreal.&quot; Dad, there are these two One is named MrBeast, the other one is named They just joined my stream and said &quot;If you win this next game, And I just won the game, dad. I just got donated and MrBeast is sending another $35,000. Oh yeah, one sec. Here we go, ready? - Thanks, Quidd. - I love it. $50,000 from MrBeast, What is happening? Oh my god. Oh my god. Wait, MrBeast just donated another 9,000. Oh my god. So Mini donated 35 grand Then MrBeast donated 15 grand and said &quot;It's bugging for me.&quot; Then MrBeast donated 9,000 and says &quot;I have lots of little donations.&quot; What on earth? - $1000. - $70,000. &quot;It won't let me donate Another 1000 from MrBeast. - All right, I got the I just had to use my phone. All I gotta do is put Goddamn Canceled all my exes, I put - Hope this goes through. - MrBeast and Simon just changed my life. What are you guys doing? Another thousand. Can I get a good crying - Can I get a good crying face for the thumbnail? I want it - How was that? All I gotta do is put my mind - &quot;10 out of 10, crying.&quot; - So basically we have like $22,000 left and we really feel bad about and we don't want them So what we're gonna do is amount of money instead of we're just gonna split it between all of the people that lost Almost every night When that moon gets big and bright - You were so close. We thought you deserved this. - Aww. - Dude. - Oh my god. - Hey, there's ours. Almost every night - Here, go buy a Snickers. - I don't like Snickers, I don't like those kind of nuts. I'm gonna pay for my - What a great guy. - The second person that lost that we're gonna go back Yeah, because we feel Party, it's on Let's go, shots, shots, - That's extra? That's extra? - I told her we had extra money, so she should start her stream back up. - That's extra? What the ? Shots, shots, shots, shots, shots - That's not extra. That's not extra. - Simon, oh my god. &quot;Isn't Quidd an amazing app?&quot; You know what? Get your phones out on I want to download. - It's an interactive experience. Everyone follow along. Open up your phone, go to app - Everyone download Quidd right now. I'm being serious, download Quidd. Oh my god, boys, thank you. I didn't even win, I got fifth. Wait. - All right, let's do that last guy and then I think we're good. The money Here we go, money talks Here comes the money, money - That, my friend, is MrBeast. - Can you end the video for me and say &quot;Thanks, keep smiling?&quot; - Anything for you guys. Big shout out to Quidd for If you don't know who They're the reason why this is possible. This is the reason, they're the reason. - English. - It's not proper sentences Dude, we've been recording for six hours. It took us six hours I can't believe we just If you're not already, Like the video and crazy through YouTube, actually really crazy. MrBeast Oh MrBeast Oh MrBeast Oh