- To see the Earth from it changes your relationship with this planet, with humanity. I really want you to come with me. Would you? - Are you serious? - I am, I think it would be meaningful. Have my brother there. - [Narrator] In this Instagram video, Blue Origin CEO Jeff when he announced that he and his brother would be aboard the company's scheduled for July 20th. If the suborbital flight of it will propel Blue Origin setting the stage for the next era of commercial human space travel. - I wanna move out into the solar system. I want my grandchildren's grandchildren to be in that world, pioneering and exploration, expansion throughout the solar system. (rocket booming) - [Narrator] The launch at a key moment for Blue Origin, which has faced setbacks of its business. Here's how Blue Origin blasted ahead of its competition and what its inaugural for the company. (pensive music) In the race to launch Blue Origin's main has been in the lead. - We are the first of the to put people into space. - [Narrator] In May 2021, successfully launched its - [Announcer] Three, two, one, - [Narrator] A feat Blue but this is where Bezos' company hopes to inch out ahead. The New Shepard launch in July will have at least one paying passenger, something Virgin Galactic has never done. - It's a key marker. - [Narrator] Doug Cameron has for over 30 years. - They've won contracts, and military deals, but a lot of it is still So this is something which with an objective and achieve. - [Narrator] If everything passengers will spend a few minutes experiencing micro gravity above the Karman Line, the altitude where space begins. And the cost to be on this In June, Blue Origin for a ticket to join Bezos - Sold, $28 million to number 107. (people clapping) - There is ultimately a perhaps multi-billion dollar business to be built in taking people to the edge - [Narrator] But as Blue Origin plans its first space tourism flight, larger parts of its business Recently, the space for losing a couple of In April, SpaceX beat out Blue Origin in a bid to build a lunar lander for NASA. NASA officials said it chose SpaceX because its bid fit within - Blue Origin, it's pushing back on that and it's hopeful that and that it can get that kind which can help fund future vehicles and technology going forward. - [Narrator] NASA's lunar lander wasn't the only big-ticket deal that Blue Origin has missed out on. In August 2020, Bezos' company lost a multi-billion dollar Air Force contract to SpaceX and United Launch Alliance. Industry insiders were not surprised. The Pentagon had previously indicated that it would put a high of each company in the running, and SpaceX and United Launch Alliance both had a longer history that Blue Origin did not. Recently, Bezos' company has Its mammoth new Glenn for completion this year but has been pushed back until late 2022. - They obviously have a for the broader business that they still have to cross. Every executive and engineer involved in the space business will say that it's hard, it's tricky. You're playing with physics here and physics is a very hard taskmaster. - [Narrator] But aside from a rocky start, Blue Origin's space tourism program has run smoother than some other parts of the business. - New Shepard's first It blew up. They've had 15 successful ones, as well as tests of other - [Narrator] And the road has been successful in Blue Origin has Bezos' financial backing and he is one of the Bezos has funneled as much into the space venture to - It's one Earth. I wanna go on this flight because it's a thing I've It's an adventure. - [Narrator] Bezos is even stepping away from his role as CEO of Amazon, one of the largest companies in the world in part to focus on Blue Origin. If Blue Origin's rocket it will be a big win for the company. - The important thing is it'll be potentially the first time that Blue Origin has it was gonna do that everyone can grasp. They've put people in space. - [Narrator] But isn't far beyond. In August 2020, the company signaled plans to launch its own tourism flights in 2021. So if it's a success, the launch of New Shepard of the next era of space tourism, not only for Blue Origin but for the larger space industry as well. (dramatic music)