Glenn: ...78, uh, 100. Glenn: Amps 25. Cabin pressure holding at 5.8. CAPCOM: Ah, roger, reading you loud and clear 7. CAPCOM: Cape is GO, we're standing by for you. Glenn: Roger, Cape is GO and I am GO. Glenn: Ah, capsule is in good shape. Glenn: Fuel, uh, 103, 102. Glenn: Oxygen, uh, 78, 100. Glenn: Cabin pressure holding steady at 5.8. Glenn: Amps is 26. Glenn: All systems are GO. CAPCOM: Roger. 20 seconds to SECO. Glenn: Roger. Glenn: Indicating 6 Gs. Glenn: Say again. CAPCOM: ... still looks good. Glenn: Roger. Glenn: SECO! Glenn: Posigrades fired OK. CAPCOM: Roger, understand. Glenn: Roger, 0 G and I feel fine. Capsule is turning around. Glenn: Oh, that view is tremendous! CAPCOM: Roger, turnaround has started. Glenn: Roger, capsule turning around and I could see the booster during turnaround, just a couple hundred yards behind me. Glenn: It was beautiful. CAPCOM: Roger, 7. You have a GO, at least 7 orbits. Glenn: Roger, understand GO for at least 7 orbits. Glenn: This is Friendship 7, uh, can see clear back a big cloud pattern way back across toward the Cape. Glenn: Beautiful sight. Glenn: This is Friendship 7, uh, having no trouble at all eating. Glenn: Uh, very good. Glenn: In the, uh, periscope I can see the brilliant blue Glenn: uh, horizon coming up behind me. Approaching sunrise. Over? CAPCOM: Roger Friendship 7. You're very lucky. Glenn: You're right man, this is beautiful. Glenn: Uh, this is Friendship 7, uh, have eaten one tube of food. Shutting the visor. Glenn: I've had no problem at all eating. Glenn: Oh, the sun is coming up behind me in the periscope. A brilliant, brilliant red. Over? CAPCOM: Ah, roger. Glenn: Ah, this is Friendship 7. It's blinding through the scope on clear. Glenn: It's, uh, started up just as I, uh, gave you that mark. Glenn: I'm going to, uh, the dark filter to watch it come on up. CAPCOM: Ah, roger. Glenn: Uh, this is... Glenn: Uh, this is Friendship 7. I'll try to describe what I'm in here. Glenn: Uh, I am in a, a big mass of some very small particles. Glenn: Uh, that are brilliantly lit up, like they're luminescent. Glenn: I never saw anything like it. Glenn: They're around a little... They're coming by the capsule. Glenn: Uh, and they look like little stars. A whole shower of them coming by. Glenn: Uh, they swirl around the capsule and go in front of the window and they're all brilliantly lighted. Glenn: Uh, they probably average maybe, uh, 7 or 8 feet apart. Glenn: But I can see them all down below me also. CAPCOM: Roger, Friendship 7. Can you hear any impacts on the capsule, over? Glenn: Uh, negative. Negative, they are very slow. Glenn: Uh, they are not going away from me more than maybe, uh... Glenn: Uh, 3 or 4 miles per hour. Glenn: They are going at the same speed I am, approximately. Glenn: They're only very slightly under my speed. Over? Glenn: Uh, they do... they do have a different motion, though, from me. Glenn: Uh, because they swirl around the capsule, Glenn: And then depart, uh, back the way that I am looking. Glenn: Are you receiving, over? Glenn: There are literally thousands of them. Glenn: Uh, this is Friendship 7, uh, am I in contact with anyone, over? Glenn: Roger, RETRO SEQUENCE is green. CAPCOM: You have a green. You look good on atitude. Glenn: RETRO ATITUDE is green. CAPCOM: Just past 20. Glenn: Say again? CAPCOM: Seconds. Glenn: Roger. CAPCOM: 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, fire. Glenn: Roger, retros are firing. CAPCOM: Sure, they be! Glenn: Are they ever! It feels like I'm going back toward Hawaii! CAPCOM: Don't do that! You want to go East Coast. Glenn: Roger, FIRE RETRO light is green. CAPCOM: All three here. Glenn: Roger. Glenn: Roger, retros have stopped. Glenn: A hundred... CAPCOM: Keep your retro pack on until you pass Texas. Glenn: That's affirmative. CAPCOM: Check. CAPCOM: Well, that's a real... real good looking flight from what we've seen. Glenn: Roger, everything went pretty good except for all this ASCS problems. CAPCOM: Looked like the attitude held pretty well. Did you have to back it up at all? Glenn: Oh, yes. Quite a bit. Glenn: Yeah, I had a lot of trouble with it. CAPCOM: Well, it was good enough for government work from down here. Glenn: Yes, sir. Looks good, Wally. We'll see you back East. CAPCOM: Rog. Glenn: All right, boy. CAPCOM: Friendship 7, Friendship 7, this is Texas Com Tech. Do you read, over? Glenn: Roger, Texas, go ahead. CAPCOM: Uh, roger, reading you 5 square. Standby for Texas CAPCOM. Glenn: Roger. CAPCOM: This is Texas CAPCOM, Friendship 7. CAPCOM: We are recommending that you leave the retropackage on through the entire reentry. CAPCOM: This means that you will have to override the .05 G switch CAPCOM: which is expected to occur at 04 43 -3. CAPCOM: This also means that you will have to manually retract the scope. Do you read? Glenn: Uh, this is Friendship 7. What is the reason for this? Do you have any reason, over? CAPCOM: Not at this time. This is the judgement of Cape Flight. Glenn: Ah, roger. Say Again your instructions, please, over? CAPCOM: We are recommending that the retro package not CAPCOM: I say again, NOT be jettisoned. CAPCOM: This means that you will have to overide the .05 G switch CAPCOM: Which is expected to occur at 04 43 53. CAPCOM: This is approximately 4-1/2 minutes from now. CAPCOM: This also means that you will have to retract the scope manually. CAPCOM: Do you understand? Glenn: Ah, roger, understand. Glenn: I will have to make a manual, uh, .05 G entry when it occurs Glenn: And, uh, bring the scope in, uh, manually. Is that affirm? CAPCOM: That is affirmative, Friendship 7. Glenn: Roger. Glenn: Uh, this is Friendship 7. Uh, going to reentry attitude then in that case. CAPCOM: Friendship 7, Cape Flight will give you the reasons for this action when you are in view. Glenn: Ah, roger. CAPCOM: Friendship 7, this is Cape, over. Glenn: Go ahead Cape, Friend 7. CAPCOM: I recommend you go to reentry attitude and retract the scope manually at this time. Glenn: Ah, roger. Retracting scope manually. CAPCOM: While you're doing that, we are not whether or not your landing bag has deployed. CAPCOM: Ah, we feel that it is possible to reenter with the retro package on. CAPCOM: Ah, we see no difficulty, at this time, in that type of reentry, over? Glenn: Ah, roger. Understand. CAPCOM: 7, this is Cape, over? Glenn: Go ahead Cape, Friendship 7. CAPCOM: Uh, estimating .05 G at 04 44. Glenn: Ah, roger. CAPCOM: You override .05 G at that time. Glenn: Ah, roger. Glenn: Friendship 7. Glenn: This is Friendship 7. I'm on straight manual control at present time. Glenn: This was, uh, still kicking in and out of orientation mode Glenn: Mainly in yaw, uh, following retrofire Glenn: So I'm on straight manual now. Glenn: I'll back it up... CAPCOM: ...for reentry Glenn: Uh, say again. CAPCOM: Standby. Glenn: This is Friendship 7, uh... Glenn: I'm going to fly-by-wire. I'm down to about 15% on manual. CAPCOM: Ah, roger. You're going to use fly-by-wire for reentry. CAPCOM: And we recommend that you do the best you can to keep a zero angle during reentry, over? Glenn: Ah, roger. Friendship 7. Glenn: This is Friendship 7. I'm on fly-by-wire, backing it up with manual, over. CAPCOM: Ah, roger. Understand. CAPCOM: Uh, 7, this is Cape. The weather in the recovery area is excellent CAPCOM: 3 foot waves, only 1/10 cloud cover, 10 miles visibility. Glenn: Ah, roger. Friendship 7. CAPCOM: Ah, 7, this is Cape, over? Glenn: Go ahead Cape. You're drown... You're going out. CAPCOM: Uh, we recommend that you... (LOS) Glenn: Uh, this is Friendship 7. I think the, uh, pack just let go. Glenn: This is Friendship 7. A real fireball outside. Glenn: Hello Cape, Friendship 7, over? Glenn: Hello Cape, Friendship 7, over? Glenn: Hello Cape, Friendship 7, do you receive, over? CAPCOM: This is Cape, how do you read, over? Glenn: Uh, loud and clear. How me? CAPCOM: Roger, reading you loud and clear. How you doing? Glenn: Oh, pretty good. CAPCOM: Roger. Your impact point is within one mile of the up-range destroyer. Glenn: Roger. Glenn: Roger. CAPCOM: Uh, this is Cape estimating 4 50, over? Glenn: Roger, 04 50. Glenn: Ok, we're through the peak G now. CAPCOM: 7 this is Cape. Uh, what's you general condition? You feeling pretty well? Glenn: My condition is good, but that was a real fireball, boy. Glenn: I had great chunks of that retropack breaking off all the way through. Glenn: Altimeter off the peg indicating 80,000 CAPCOM: Roger, reading you loud and clear. Glenn: Roger. CAPCOM: Uh, 7, this is Cape. If you're reading you will be within one mile of the up-range destroyer. CAPCOM: Recovery weather is very good, over? Glenn: Roger, understand. Uh, 55,000, standby... Glenn: Mark. Glenn: I'm getting all kinds of contrails and stuff outside out here. CAPCOM: Roger. Say again your altitude, please. You were broken up. Glenn: 45,000. Glenn: Rocking quite a bit. I may still have some of that pack on. I can't damp it either. Glenn: Friendship 7, uh, going to drogue early. Glenn: It's, uh, rocking... Glenn: It's, uh, drogue came out. Glenn: Drogue is out. Glenn: Roger. Drogue came out at 30,000 in about a 90 degree yaw. CAPCOM: Roger, is the drogue holding on? Glenn: Roger, drogue looks good. Glenn: Scope did not come out. CAPCOM: ...the checklist? Glenn: Roger. Pumping the scope out. CAPCOM: ...over? Glenn: Say again. Glenn: Ah, roger. Reentry checklist complete. Standing by for Main at 10,000. CAPCOM: Roger.