When you think of Belgium, what's the first thing that comes to mind? Let me guess: Waffles? Chocolate? or beer? We know them for these things, but as you're about to find out, there is so much more to food here in Belgium. Join us at a restaurant called Boury. The owner and executive chef is Tim Boury. After culinary school, the 18 year old moved and took a position at one of Comme Chez Soi. It was here, he fell in love. Not with the place. With a young Commis de Cuisine named Inge They would eventually part but not with each other. Tim went on to become the right hand of Chef in 3-star Oud Sluis and Inge made the move to 3-star Hof van Cleve to work alongside Chef Peter Goosens. In 2010 the couple moved to Roeselare, found a small house, and set out to But they could not have done it without family. With the help of Tim's father, Then Inge's family went to work. Renovating the space from top to bottom was owned by her father and brother. At the end, they had their restaurant. It was called Boury, with Tim in the kitchen and The couple soon added more family members Tim's brother Ben came onboard to oversee And later Ben's wife Judith joined the team Soon after opening Boury, the awards came Within a year, they had the first michelin And in 2013, Chef Boury was awarded Flanders and in 2016 he got Chef of the Year. At this point, the small restaurant was ready They moved the operation to a renovated 1950's complete with a garden and guest rooms. 2017 saw the new and improved Boury get its but by 2019, they faced another challenge. They found themselves with a shortage of highly This led to the launch of Boury Academy. It's a three month training program that Also around this time, they started Boury a line of fine spirits, In 2020, Chef Boury took He was chosen to design the menu for business And in 2022, they added a cherry on top - the third and final Michelin star. We arrive at the carefully tended grounds and we are immediately welcomed He leads us to the back garden where the staff The men on staff are impeccably dressed in The ladies are outfitted in striking magenta Within minutes, we meet sommelier Mathieu He welcomes us with a 2014 Perrier Jouet - Belle It's an excellent aperitif, and a beautiful bottle and champagne flutes It turns out that today is a national holiday, There are two tasting menus to choose from or you can order a la carte. I choose the signature menu for two hundred Next to stop by and say hi is Lady of the She is both down to earth and professional Sitting in this beautiful garden in Belgium, where the set is perfect with precision timing. On cue, Chef Tim Boury arrives. He is a lovely guy. He serves the first bites and has a little The first bite Chef Boury serves is sweet Ponzu is a Japanese citrus sauce that has I love the combination of flavors and now Next are three more appetisers. On the left we have fresh cucumber with granny Nice combination but the I could do with half as much. In the middle is a cremeux of smoked eel with Cremeux is French for creamy and there is It was excellent even though I don't like On the right we have a tartlet with Gado-gado, This had an interesting flavor but my favorite We are just getting started and already I Our next appetiser is puffed bread filled with virgin caviar and The texture of the meat is amazing. The wine list is a magnum opus. But it's not row after row of trendy wines This list is very clever and wines are There are so many great wines in this list, I need a minute to decide. Our next snack is north sea crab with a cream and a kombucha made of fennel. Super creative presentation and you can tell a lot of work went into I'm still working on my wine decision when It's a combination of fresh cheese with It's salty and nutty with a nice consistency. Our last appetiser is a tortelli filled with tomato and parmesan cheese with a brown sauce. Our last snack is a warm oyster preparation This is so good it might even be my kryptonite. Unbelievable start to this meal. They are pulling out all the stops with this impeccable service, unique Just as our wine glasses empty, Inge arrives We make a quick stop in the kitchen to see before being seated in the dining room. Our first course is marinated sea bass with Next to it is a taco. You heard that right. I said taco. But this one is filled with marinated seabass They got my number with this one. It was a master class in flavor balance and A fresh loaf of homemade sourdough bread with and olive oil hits the table next. Look at that. Perfection. The next wine is a 2021 Chardonnay from It's called The Agnes and it gets high scores Chef Boury is back to explain It is cooked confit at 62 degrees in homemade with fermented citrus flowers. It arrives at our table with a French mussel made of mussel juice and marigold. It's excellent. I ask the server about the plates and he tells us the chef and always in white. He likes things to be neat. Our next wine is from California. It's a 2016 Vin Gris de Cigare Reserve. The producer is Bonny Doon, known for making This one is classified as a rose but has the Very interesting and nice to try. I like it. Our next course is lobster in four acts. The first three arrive at once. The pretty one is a very fresh and energetic The second we are told has powerful flavors. And the third is the most creative in the We are encouraged not to eat one by one, but to try some of one, It's an adventure of flavor, acidity, texture Our next wine is a white blend from Spanish This wine is unoaked, which means it's aged This aging method is gaining popularity and it allows the true flavors of the grape to shine. The wine is clean and fresh, A great choice. Inge comes by the table to chat and give us some backstory It's always fascinating to hear the path The fourth act in the lobster show arrives. This one is more traditional and prepared It's equally as dynamic as the others. Again the presentation is picture perfect. Our sommelier pours our next wine. It's Orvieto Classico superiore 2021 from By regulation, these wines must be made from Toscano grapes. This one is a little sweet and is handpicked The good stuff. Caviar. This 250 gram tin retails With it is langoustine and consumme with verbena and finished with a dashi foam. Most of the time, caviar is good on its own. But this is even better. It has an incredibly elegant acid structure, and sweetness to meet the salty caviar. Incredible. Hands down, this is one of my favorites. Our next wine is a 2021 German pinot noir This wine is elegant with spicy notes. Next is our servers favorite dish on the menu. Sweetbread of veal with sweet onion, fava The sweetbread is delicate and creamy, slightly The onions add sweetness and depth and the I can taste why our server likes it so much. I had the chance to talk champagne with the When asked what he would drink if it was his The answer was Krug clos d'ambonnay. I can easily agree with that. With the main course coming up, it's time Boury has a team of 35 people and 18 of them, Reproducing Chef Boury's delicate food creations Out in the dining room it's all about spectacular But back here, it's a well-oiled machine. And now for the main course. Pigeon from the Anjou region of France with duck liver, fermented Wow. They saved the best course to the end. The meat is luxurious. Incredibly tender with flavor that deepens The other ingredients complement it really All the bases are covered. It's paired brilliantly with a southern It's dry and slightly acidic with a bold The sommelier keeps things rolling with the It is full of stars from Madiera. Specifically from producer D'Oliveria. This is not included in the wine pairing but The next trolley is cheese. There are so many choices I decide to try Belgium isn't as famous as but there is a long-stading I enjoy a selection of hard and soft cheeses In the small bowl is a jam made of quince. And next to it is our second taco of the day. This one is filled with date and apple. Everything is top quality here. I love how they broaden our cheese horizons and support local businesses at the same time. Our dessert wine is a Carmes De Rieussec from This comes from Sauternes, France which is famous for high end sweet wine. This definitely is. Our first dessert is fresh blueberries with Here they demonstrate careful tweezer work. It looks and tastes exceptional. Our next wine is actually a beer. It's lambic beer. It's made with wild yeast and has been brewed This one is made from sour cherries. Our next dessert pairs perfectly with it. We have 3 preparations of cherry. The first is marinated with elderflower The second is cherry ice cream The last is a fresh and fruity chocolate with tarragon. I'm impressed by all of them and can't For coffee and the petit fours, it's back Good music, the sun is out, and you can tell Such a great way to end our meal. Before we go, Inge comes to see us off. I asked her who designed this beautiful garden. Her answer was... "Me&quot; &quot;I always know what I want... I don't always get it, but I know it.&quot; I like her character. She is a woman who embodies The total for today is just over eleven hundred The strengths of each member combine to create Their dedication and teamwork is beautiful Combined with ultra-professional kindness My experience couldn't have been more enjoyable. One of the best experience, I have ever had.