We all understand that the Bible presents He is presented as Messiah-King. He is presented as a prophet. He is presented as the great High Priest. And when the Scripture speaks of Him as a for us, it says that He sympathizes with us, with our infirmities, that He having been without sin,&quot; is a merciful and sympathetic Another way to say that is it is His desire us. And even when He sent the Holy Spirit, He the Comforter. God is the God of all comfort; the Holy Spirit compassionate High Priest. We know that because the Bible says that. We understand that theologically and doctrinally. But every once in awhile in the text of the Christ, we have an opportunity to see one dramatic way. Such is the case of the text ahead of us, Here we see our sympathetic, compassionate who feels our burdens and our infirmities; and our joy. And this is not just some duty to Him; it The Lord seeks the joy of His people, and text. You know, lack of hope is the ultimate agony We all suffer. We all go through disappointments, distress. We have disturbances, things that are completely We live with challenges that are seemingly We're always looking for some light at the People can actually endure almost any trial If they can't see an end that is good, life The book of Proverbs puts it this way: &quot;Hope &quot;Hope deferred makes the heart sick.&quot; Lack of hope is the ultimate agony in suffering. Lack of hope eliminates joy. Our Lord, however, seeks our joy, and so always You look back in the book of Job, for example, as anyone could even imagine. And in the middle of his suffering he laments swifter than a weaver's shuttle and come to Where is now my hope, and who has regard for Speaking of God, Job says, &quot;He breaks me down my hope like a tree.&quot; The psalmist, in severe turmoil, challenges &quot;Why are you in despair, O my soul? Why have you become disturbed within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him The psalmist, in the midst of severe suffering, his hope. We all know that Jeremiah is called the weeping Jeremiah, God's chosen prophet - great preacher, his people who did not hear his message, who threw him in a pit and left him to die. It was Jeremiah who was suffering the horrors brink of the Babylonian captivity, and the The Lord comes to him in his sorrow, and in Lord says, &quot;I know the plans that I have for to give you a future and a hope.&quot; In Lamentations, which is basically the book says this, chapter 3, verse 21: &quot;This I recall The Lord's lovingkindnesses indeed never cease, They are new every morning; great is Your 'The Lord is my portion,' says my soul, 'therefore We all live in bleak times of disappointment, the light at the end of the tunnel, or we looks bleak and continues to get worse. This is part of living in a fallen world. This section of Scripture that we're going source of hope because here we find the Lord give to His disciples a hope, and even joy, And what is so amazing about our Lord's concern He knows the eleven disciples are distraught. They cannot see light at the end of the tunnel. He has been talking now for a very long time They can go all the way back over a year in in Mark 9, when Jesus said He was going to &quot;And even then, they did not understand,&quot; about it.&quot; They did not want more information. They didn't even want that information. You have to understand that their whole lives of Messianic expectation of what the Messiah It was part of their whole culture, their And then they were chosen to be with the One heightened their expectation that He would destroy their enemies, bring salvation to But He began talking about dying , about death. And in detail, He told them He would be arrested, on, and even lifted up, crucified. And He also told them He would rise again. But it was against the grain of such forceful, that they couldn't receive it. And they didn't want to ask any more questions As a result of this, the closer they got to grew. By the time we get to Thursday night, where final week in Jerusalem - Friday He will be We are now a couple of hours at the most from And immediately after that, the mock trial crucifixion on Friday, their sorrow has reached They know what is shaping up, and our Lord going to die, and that that death is imminent. Several times in that upper room, which takes &quot;Stop being troubled.&quot; &quot;Stop being troubled.&quot; He says it a couple of times - it's recorded Another time He says, &quot;I want you to be at He knows their profound sorrow is related and departure. Not only has He said He's going to die, but necessarily understand how that can be. And then He also adds, &quot;And I am leaving you.&quot; It all looks so very bleak. It's all summed up in chapter 16, verse 6, He has said these things about His death and Now, the word &quot;filled&quot; is a very rich word. It literally means sorrow had pushed out every Usually in life, we can sort of make it through with a little joy, a little bit of sorrow But sorrow had taken over. It dominated them in spite of our Lord's promise that He would send His Spirit to take His because it was better to have the Spirit of in Him. They heard His repeated promises. They heard Him talk about death. They heard Him talk about resurrection. They heard Him talk about the coming of the All that should have been hopeful, but they sorrow. They're so wrapped up in their own sorrow go to the Father,&quot; which is His own glory, even respond by saying, &quot;We're really happy They couldn't get beyond their own grief. So as that night draws to a close, in the in His heart. He has told them everything they need to know. They can't process it, so they're engulfed And here we see a most amazing illustration who wants to give joy to these men in the And keep this in mind: this is in the middle This is deep into the darkness of Friday morning. By Sunday night, their joy will be returned. By Sunday night, He will show up in the upper He will come through the door, and they will So you might think that our Lord could wait But such is the sympathy of Christ for His of sorrow He desires to eliminate. It's a marvelous insight into the character Priest. He could have scolded them. He could have told them to hang on, things But even a few hours of their sorrow is a And so the text is intended for the moment and give them joy. Let's start in verse 16. &quot;'A little while, and you will no longer see see Me.' Some of His disciples then said to one another, while, and you will not see Me; and again &quot;because I go to the Father&quot;?' So they were saying, 'What is this that He We do not know what He is talking about.'&quot; &quot;Jesus knew they wished to question Him, and about this, that I said, &quot;A little while, while, and you will see Me&quot;? Truly, truly, I say to you, that you will you will grieve, but your grief will be turned Whenever a woman is in labor she has pain, birth to the child, she no longer remembers has been born into the world. Therefore you too have grief now; but I will and no one will take your joy away from you. In that day you will not question Me about Truly, truly, I say to you, if you ask the it to you. Until now, you have asked for nothing in My joy may be made full.'&quot; The whole point of these amazing words is is a full, complete, dominating joy. They were full of sorrow. He wanted them to be full of joy, to exchange And He's concerned about that just in the will be dispelled by Sunday night. Amazing sympathy for just a brief time for He makes a prediction then in verse 16 - we'll will no longer see Me; and again a little Here is our blessed, sympathetic Lord introducing these sorrowful disciples. He is so utterly selfless. Philippians 2, He is the model selflessness: of others. Consider others better than yourselves. Let this mind be in you which was also in He's the model of selfless humility. He was going to be glorified in the presence He was going to rise from the dead and be where He came from. They had no interest in that because all they perspective. We see His selfless love, His humility for He gives them a hope and joy. Now what does He mean, &quot;'A little while and while and you will see Me'&quot;? Some people say He's talking about the resurrection. He's talking about the fact that, in a few He'll go out of their presence. They actually flee. Only Peter hangs around to see things, and So does He mean that they're not going to Well, John saw Him, Peter saw Him, so that Some others think maybe He doesn't mean the Now there's a whole case made for the fact see Me when I come back in glory.&quot; But that's not really &quot;a little while.&quot; When He says, &quot;'A little while and you won't But if He says, &quot;'A little while and you will be very different than the first one. That makes it very strange, and they actually What is He referring to when He says, &quot;'A and again a little while, and you will see And by the way, He had spoken like that very Back in chapter 7, He said, &quot;'I'm with you Back in chapter 12, &quot;'I'm with you a little Back in chapter 13, &quot;'I'm with you a little It was a brief time, His presence there. It was three years. It was months, it was weeks, it was days, But what is He talking about that &quot;'you will The answer comes in verse 17. The disciples recite in their own minds - this They're kind of whispering to one another, while, and you will not see Me; and again I go to the Father'?&quot; which means He said So that's the key: &quot;You will see Me because the dead; not because I return from heaven. But you will see Me because I go to the Father.&quot; &quot;But when You go to the Father, You're going When You go to the Father, that's Your ascension.&quot; That's forty days after the resurrection when heaven. &quot;'What do You mean, we will see You when You Go back to chapter 16, verse 5, and you have Earlier He said, &quot;'Now I'm going to Him who I'm going to the Father.'&quot; Just stop at that point: &quot;'I'm going.'&quot; And then go down to verse 7: &quot;'But I tell I go away; for if I do not go away, the Helper'&quot; not come to you; but if I go, I will send Are you following that? &quot;'If I go, I will send the Holy Spirit to So what He means here is, &quot;'A little while ascend to My Father. And a little while after that you will see Holy Spirit.'&quot; That is the only possible interpretation, &quot;'because I go to the Father.'&quot; Back in chapter 14, verse 17, the same statement: receive, because it doesn't see Him or know you and will be in you.'&quot; Then this in verse 18: &quot;'I will not leave After a little while the world will no longer you will live also.'&quot; What does He mean, &quot;'I will come to you'&quot;? He means, &quot;'I will come to you in the form I will not leave you as orphans.'&quot; It is the very same thing. He says, &quot;I'll be back. I will be back, and I will be with you, and Spirit.&quot; This is a great trinitarian statement: the one. That is the whole point of our Lord in that Look again to chapter 16, verse 13. When the Spirit of truth comes, what is He Verse 14: &quot;'Glorify Me; take all that is Mine All things that the Father has are Mine; therefore it to you.'&quot; So what our Lord means is &quot;'a little while'&quot; see Me; then you will see Me.'&quot; What He means by that is, &quot;You will see Me coming of the Holy Spirit.&quot; The purpose of the Holy Spirit is to make every believer. Why He's called the Spirit of Christ. Romans 8 says, &quot;If any man have not the Spirit So Jesus is talking about the dispensation of Christ displays the promises and glories that Christ pledged to His people in their Gives to us as well, as we saw, the Scripture. So He shows us Christ, not only spiritually through the written Word. The Spirit says, &quot;I come to reveal Christ.&quot; &quot;I come to reveal Christ.&quot; So our Lord is saying in verse 16, &quot;'It's Looking past the cross, past the resurrection, But a little while after that, a little while back, and I'm coming back in the form of the &quot;'It's to your advantage,'&quot; chapter 16, verse So that is the pledge and that is the promise. Now, we understand that because we have the We're listening to it thoughtfully and carefully, misconceptions of the disciples. But they didn't understand it. He is saying, &quot;Crucifixion, yes; resurrection, But more importantly, I'm pushing you all which happens when I go back to the Father. If I don't go to the Father, the Spirit can't If I do, He will. I'll be taken from you. You will not see me, but I will return in live in you.&quot; Incredible prediction, prophecy - fulfilled chapter 2. Now, they're left confused. There's perplexity in their minds. Let's look at it in verse 17. So they began to say to one another, &quot;'What you will not see Me again; a little while And all of this is related to Him going to What are they to think about this? They can't put it all together. So they were saying, not only thinking and about what this all meant. &quot;'What is this little while? We don't know what He is talking about.'&quot; Now, this is kind of a quiet, in-the-darkness, They don't want to ask Him because they don't They don't want it. So verse 19 says, &quot;Jesus knew that they wished That's an interesting statement, isn't it? He knew what they wished. He knew their minds. He knows what's in men. He knows your thoughts. For the first time since chapter 14, verse is broken, and they begin to talk. They've been listening for a long time that We don't have any record they said anything, Now they begin to mumble and talk because means. Confused, perplexed, and not wanting to ask 9; they didn't want information that they fearful and confused. And, again, I just remind you, by Sunday night meet the risen Christ, and then they're going kingdom with Him before He ascends into heaven It seems like such a brief time until Sunday But as I said, even this brief time of sadness He doesn't want to bear, and so He wants to joy. He is omniscient - He knows their mind; He And even though their joy will come on Sunday in His loving heart. Yes, He's concerned about their theological Yes, He's concerned about their willingness But He also is concerned about their sorrow. That is divine compassion. That is divine compassion. You will not find that kind of divine compassion of religions of the entire world through all They had decided essentially that they were to some kind of last hope. So our Lord says to them in verse 19, &quot;'Are I said, &quot;A little while, and you will not will see Me&quot;'?&quot; &quot;I know what you're thinking. I know what you're saying, even if I can't Were they saying, &quot;How can you go away and How can you die and rise? Well, Lazarus did. Maybe it's like Lazarus; you can die for a And there were other people that Jesus raised What is He talking about?&quot; So He moves to comfort them. So you go from a prediction of His leaving, coming of the Holy Spirit, to the perplexity the grain of their own expectations. And then our Lord offers an illustration, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but your grief will be turned into joy.'&quot; This is very important, folks; very important true. If He just said, &quot;Guys, you're going to rejoice. Guys, there's going to be a glorious ending out wonderfully,&quot; and never said anything assumed that He was wrong, that He didn't omniscient as they thought He was. So He tells them that they're going to weep that's exactly what is going to happen. That is exactly what will take place in a When He is arrested, they run, they flee, sorrows and fears. They do weep; they do lament. Even Mary, John 20:11, even at the tomb is of our Lord had been shedding. The sadness is palpable in Luke 24 on the couple of disciples who are just literally thought Jesus was the Messiah before He was So our Lord, fortifying them for the moments that makes them think that He doesn't know Twenty-five times in the gospel of John you &quot;verily, verily&quot;; &quot;truly, truly&quot;; or, &quot;It &quot;For sure, for sure&quot; would be another vernacular And John uses &quot;truly, truly&quot; so many times grain of what they had been taught. And so he emphasizes, &quot;This is true; this It is over against the grain of the errors &quot;This is solemn; this is serious. I'm telling you, you're going to cry; you're The world is going to rejoice. The world's going to throw a party when I They're going to be in sorrow. The body of Jesus will lie dead, a bloody The world has wreaked its murderous will on And the disciples are weeping and shattered knows it's going to happen. &quot;But,&quot; He says, &quot;your grief&quot; - end of verse Joy is the goal; joy is the objective. In fact, I am convinced that that is how every Joy should mark our lives. It's a marvelous statement. The very thing that plunged them into grief It's not that one event gives you grief and It is that the very event that brought the joy; and that will be true, going forward, the cross, which brought the grief. In retrospect, after the resurrection, they You know, we have no hymns in our hymnal of endless hymns of joy that go back to the cross. That which was the cause of the greatest grief joy. In the light of the death of Christ, the resurrection right hand of the Father in the ascension becomes the focal point of Christian joy. Joy that began at the resurrection, of course. When Jesus was raised from the dead, they They were rejoicing. But when the Spirit of God came, that joy of the Spirit is love, joy - joy. It is a kind of joy that is unassailable. First Thessalonians 1:6 says, &quot;You received of the Holy Spirit.&quot; &quot;You received the word in much tribulation The Holy Spirit comes to bring us joy. The fruit of the Spirit again is joy. &quot;The kingdom of God is joy in the Holy Spirit,&quot; So our Lord is saying, &quot;Look, you're going and you're going to come out the other side, That's His promise. They're perplexed about how that all works. To clarify it, He tells them a kind of a parable, &quot;'Whenever a woman is in labor she has pain, And that, of course, was part of the curse. Remember back in Genesis 3 for the sin of Women were cursed and having to suffer pain &quot;'When a woman is in labor she has pain, because to the child, she no longer remembers the been born into the world.'&quot; That's the best illustration. Our Lord chooses always the best illustration. Women suffer greatly in childbirth, I guess. They certainly suffer in ways that men don't, I've been there to see the suffering firsthand; would anticipate that and go through that, suffering is the greatest human joy possible: Sorrow, pain, anguish produces abundant joy. The same event that brings the pain, brings So our Lord is saying, &quot;The very event that the event that brings you the greatest joy; salvation.&quot; Verse 22, &quot;'Therefore you too have grief now That is so wonderful. Back earlier, He said in verse 19, &quot;'You will But here He says, &quot;'I will see you again,'&quot; who comes in us has a communion with us. We receive His presence; He receives our presence. It's another reality in the age of the Spirit in a sense, indivisible from Christ: &quot;He that we are one with Christ&quot;; that Paul says in nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ lives in me.&quot; Christ says, &quot;I'll come back. You'll see Me in the Spirit, in the work of work of the Spirit in Scripture objectively. The Scripture will reveal Me, and the Spirit The Scripture is the external, objective revelation Spirit in us becomes the teacher and interpreter teaches us what the Scripture means. And that is the subjective ministry of the This is the mystery of the Trinity, and when in the Word; not only will you see Me subjectively illuminating you, but I will see you,&quot; as watching you, as it were, from the inside.&quot; Amazing. And when that happens - &quot;when I come back That is the key characteristic of Christian &quot;Your heart will rejoice with a joy that no No one can take your salvation from you, right? - no one. You're secure in Christ and the Father, John hand. No one can take your salvation.'&quot; Listen: &quot;Therefore, no one can take your joy, that you have in that final promise of eternal This joy is permanent joy. That's why the apostle Paul says in Philippians Rejoice all the time. This is the will of God: rejoice, rejoice, Well, obviously, I can't rejoice in everything I can't rejoice in everything in my life. But I can rejoice in my eternal salvation I can rejoice in the presence of Christ who There's no reason, then, in this brief passing live a joyless life when what is most precious Joy has little to do with my circumstances and everything to do with my spiritual circumstances, Our Lord, again, is concerned with their joy. It's their joy that's on His mind. &quot;I want you to rejoice. I want your grief turned to joy.&quot; So here is our Lord saying to them, &quot;You're I'm going to come in the form of the Spirit; I'm going to reveal Myself to you externally of 16 - &quot;and then I'm going to reveal Myself Subjectively, I will be in your life, moving Objectively, I will be revealed on the pages You go to the Word of God, and you will see is in you will conform you to My image as The subjective and the objective come together. So from this prediction and the perplexity grief will be turned to joy,'&quot; illustrated last two verses. &quot;'And in that day'&quot; - What day? - the day the Spirit comes. &quot;'That day, the day that I will see you again.'&quot; Verse 22: the day that &quot;'your heart will rejoice; that no one can ever take away from you; the For them, it was the Day of Pentecost. For us, of course, as a believer at the moment to live in us. &quot;In that day, you will not question Me about That's an interesting statement. Here comes a final promise: &quot;'In that day'&quot; Lord will see them again as He comes in the Let me tell you what that means. Up to now and up to that day - up to the day - they had asked Him everything. He was their personal Wikipedia, if you will. He was their resource for everything. They asked Him everything. They asked Him every question, every issue. They came to Him for every need, every desire. They needed explanations; they came to Him. &quot;'When I come back in the Spirit, in that Why? &quot;I'm not going to be there. From then on you will, in that era of the your needs, your desires to Me in the flesh. You have done that until then, and you will But after that, you will no longer ask your The answers will come from the Spirit of truth, &quot;The answers will come because you will have things, and you will have the revealed Scripture But more than that, more than that, here's is so unique - &quot;'I say to you, if you ask give it to you.'&quot; That is a stunning promise. They could go directly to God in the name His promise is that &quot;all of heaven's riches, and God's will will be available to you if &quot;What do you mean, 'In My name'?&quot; &quot;Consistent with who I am, and My will.&quot; I'm asking in the place of Jesus because I Him. And Philippians 4:19 says, &quot;My God will supply in glory by Christ Jesus.&quot; That's what it means, &quot;in His name.&quot; &quot;'Until now,'&quot; again, verse 24, &quot;'you asked &quot;You asked Me. You didn't go to God in My name, you came That's the way it's been, and that's right, &quot;Now, keep on asking; keep on asking; keep when you ask in My name.&quot; Why? &quot;'So that your joy may be made full.'&quot; Just striking concern of the Lord Jesus about I don't know what outsiders think about Christianity, don't give a good representation of what it But what our Lord expects our lives to be matter what. No matter what the temporal circumstances, That is why we are commanded to rejoice, &quot;And And the Lord says, &quot;I want your joy to be as your sorrow has been. A joy related to the fact that I'm there; on the pages of Scripture externally; and for you in heaven; and you will be there; And what is heaven? It is eternal joy.&quot; So summing up He says, &quot;Look, separation is I'll be back. I won't leave you. I'll come back in the form of the Holy Spirit. And the very event that brought you all this the cross was the point of your salvation, and your sorrow will be turned to joy, and will ever take from you, and that joy will But even now, that joy should dominate your your needs in My name, in My name.&quot; What a glorious Savior. The cross and all of its agonies is just hours He's going to give His life a ransom; He's He can already begin to anticipate the nails the spear driven into His internal organs. He can hear the jeers and the taunts of the He can feel the spit, the hellish laughter But what's on His mind? What's on His mind in these hours is the sorrow This is indeed a wonder of wonders. &quot;I want your joy to be full, and I want you I don't want you to go even a few more hours Jesus, when He went to the cross, went to Him. His joy is our joy; our joy is His joy. You should rejoice - I don't care what your on in your life - that Christ lives in you, And you know Him subjectively because He dwells And you know Him objectively because He's is the work of His Spirit. God forgive us if we are not overwhelmed with around us. Lord, we thank You that Your Word penetrates our lives. Thank You for the encouragement of this particular Thank You for loving us so much that You desire joy beyond comprehension. But even now, You desire our joy - joy because You are revealed outside of us on the pages We have You; we're not without You. We have the full, heavenly-inspired record You living in us. We can go now, O God, directly to You and desire - and know that You will hear and we Lord, what an open door. What a throne of mercy to which we can come Christ has opened the door and given us access. No priest stands between us, no religious We only need to ask. And, Lord, we could certainly say, &quot;Give us No matter what this life looks like, no matter in You, O God, in Christ and in the blessed has given us the Scripture. Make us joyful. May it be that the world is literally amazed Christian lives in dark and troubled times, questions and anxieties. This is a very disturbed world in which we You know that; we see it. It's plunging into hell at rapid speed. May we live, Lord, in the midst of this crooked is born of an eternal hope and a present Christ, We pray in His wonderful name. Amen.