I am Max Brandrett, master forger, and I made over 500,000 This is how crime works. In those days, you didn't to send them up to the lab to be tested. Today, you would never get away with it. They can tell you the day you painted it, the color, how old it is. The canvas has got to be right. You know, you can't forge. In my day, you didn't From '60s, '68 to the '70s is when you could still hit it. But not today, no way. We used to buy what we called potboilers. Potboilers are old rubbish pictures that, somebody who'd be an amateur, but as long as the canvas You couldn't do an old picture from the 1700 or 1800s on You had to do it sort of If you did it on a -- the auctioneer would suss it out. If they've got a bowl of you rub it down, you sand prime it, gesso, gesso primer, undercoat on top of that, white undercoat, do the sides, and then do your painting. As for starting, do the sky, get the drawing system done. With your Brolac undercoat, hair-dryer, then you'd just sketch it out. So that was the preparation. I think that's where the &quot;Hey, well, if this is I can match the color. It's just there. It's just, I see it, and I think I would know what to use, you know? If you use oil paints, it takes probably about But my little way of doing it was I found a quick drying process. Brolac or any house undercoat, you know, white undercoat, and then you put that with your paint, you put your hair-dryer over it, and it'll dry probably in about two hours. That's why we could do so many. And that was it. So the aging is a whole new world. What do you think happens when you've got a picture in a frame for years and years and years? So, when it's inside the slip frame, it will be clean, won't it? And all the dirt will show. So we used to age it. Fake it up with a walnut scramble, like dirty sort of tea stain color, and then get your turps and run your finger down with a cloth all the way around, so So when they said, &quot;Oh, it's been in the put it back in the frame, that was it. I wanted to crack the pictures, hence a very magic thing which somebody showed me years ago from an old guy that used to restore. He said bee glue is perfect. Bee glue is a Scotch glue, it's called. It's used for woodwork, well, but it was always a So I bought 2 pounds of this, I put it in a sauce bin, Next morning it's a jelly. Then you think, right, bring it up to a varnish. If you overdo it, it goes too thick, so you just got to get it right. Get your picture, right. You give it a coat of this varnish, this bee glue varnish. You take it to a heater. It has to be an electric heater. Can't be dry heat. And you circulate the painting, like that. And you think, &quot;God, it's And you do a bit on the top of the sky, and you look at it. You can Wash off the bee glue with And then, all right, Empty a Hoover on it. All the dirt, all the And then, after that, the nails that you've had in the garden for six months in a tin, because you put water and they rusted, make sure that the nails go 'Cause they'll suss you out. Tap it all back, under glass, white polish, back in the frame, talcum powder, because It takes off the bee glue stink, and it rots, to be honest. And then hence, you've got it. So, there again. On there, looking good. Auction room, Saturday, [Censored] had the He would buy the canvases. He gave me light money in the beginning, till we got started. I was in Portobello Road. [Censored] would come along, and he said, &quot;I'll have He said, &quot;I'll give you Came to have a drink with me afterwards. So we went to the pub, And he started talking about, Yeah. I could have done it We would go in as father and son. Like, you know, he was 45. I was 19 years old. So, the first auction We got into the auction if you sort of make them We would say, &quot;Morning, governor.&quot; They'd go, &quot;Yeah. Morning.&quot; &quot;So, got some smudges in the car. So would you have a look for me?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Yeah, bring them in.&quot; He said, &quot;Just there, fine.&quot; Said, &quot;Dad, bring them in, will you?&quot; So we bring them in a bloody bin liner. And he goes, &quot;What's that down there? That looks interesting.&quot; This is the very posh guy in the desk. This is how silly it was. The auctioneer would But what he didn't know that Albert Darby used to sweep And I thought, when I [censored] said, &quot;Nice, I said, &quot;I know. A was in his '80s, called Albert Darby.&quot; He went, &quot;Yeah. Do that.&quot; So I put &quot;Albert Darby&quot; went into the auction, and he told me he's a listed painter. I went, &quot;Yeah, right. I thought that was it. And then he said to me, &quot;What's the other thing there?&quot; &quot;Oh, it's some cat picture, sir.&quot; Said, &quot;Did you not know what this was? It's a Louis Wain.&quot; &quot;Who's Louis Wain, sir? Sorry, sorry. And my, [censored] would go, &quot;You see, son? This When you've got respect like that, and the knowledge he has is incredible. So you look and learn.&quot; But, again, to make that he's got the knowledge Then, the big thing was the auction rooms. When you go into the auction room, you've got to be careful. The guy on the desk doesn't go into the auction on the night, because he spots two of then you'd think, &quot;Hold on, why are they bidding Sometimes we nearly And what we used to do, So on the day, you would to look at the pictures, to We used to stand next to and you'd pretend not to And the other guy'd go, &quot;Hm, Albert Darby. It's interesting.&quot; Said, You gonna have a pop at this?&quot; And you'd mark it down, [Censored], he was in one side, I was in the other, So my sign was for when We used to get to 2 1/2 grand, and I'd either do that, that, I'm out, and he would carry on. And I used to do that twice. If you're going to overdo it, you buy the bloody thing back yourself. Yeah. So we hit the [censored] and -- oh, don't say it, don't say it. We hit Bond Street Gallery for 45 grand, and we got 25 in readies, which we cashed immediately. There you go. That's the other way. Mostly dealers would buy. They would buy for reselling. Oh, you get privates, you know. We fooled a lot of people with ours. But we had never had any comebacks. Never once did they well, how do you feel about this? You got a picture, you listen to all these it's four weeks old, and it's dated 1797. So, you know, who knows? It just goes on. Somebody legged it. Somebody crossed us up, and they raided us one Found all this bee glue, old paintings, stretchers, everything. Then they charged me with [Censored] got off. I didn't. I got nicked. And I had a single cell, I asked the governor for And then pencils and paper And so [censored] came to me, and we'd be visiting in those days. So, what'd he used to do? He used to bring the paper in, and he'd have it up his sleeve. And he used to slide out some paper that he used to nick from the library. Flip clean pages. The pages were really old, 1830s. So I could do Samuel put it in my Bible, next time he came up, I was to roll them up and He used to take them back home, frame them up, shove them in the auction. So when I came out, I had about 4 grand. So I was forging in prison. If I walked into Christie's or Sotheby's, a bloody bell would ring. 'Cause I'm on camera, aren't I? Well, I'm banned from auctions. I'm banned from every auction. In the old days, if I was halfway out the bloody window. But I don't have to do that now. I just feel content with my lot. Born in Buckingham Road, in Brighton. Basement flat, five of us. And it was poverty. It got so bad that they So that was the first place, was Barkingside, we're I did all that, came back to my mother. I ran away to London, and then I thought the only job you could So I went up to the When I left the circus, Saw lots of paintings, I thought, &quot;I can do those myself.&quot; And so I did about five or six pictures. Then off you go. Portobello Road, here I come. Do I feel remorse? To be honest, I just felt I didn't sink. Perhaps if I was that My book is called &quot;Max Brandrett, Britain's And it's not about how to fake a picture. It's my real, my life story.