This is the Mona Lisa, right? Well that's the name used by English speakers until the 19th century. The French and Italians refer to it as "La comes from Giorgio Vasari, who stated the but Vasari published his "The Lives of the Before Vasari it may have been referred to as "a courtesan in a gauze veil". This is not Whistler's Mother that is the Arrangement in Grey and Black No.1. The Night Watch is actually titled Militia Captain Frans Banninck Cocq. It obtained the name The Night Watch because so darkened by layers of varnish and dirt Despite being written directly onto the canvas The Treachery of Images. This is not The Great Wave of Kanagawa by The title is The Great Wave Off Kanagawa, mistake. Except this isn't the "real" title either. The Japanese translation is Under the Wave In fact nearly all of these titles are not Unless you were a real pedant, most people when using these titles to refer to these known, and that's what the cultural consensus a lot of uncertainty when it comes to art As Ruth Yeazell explains in her book: Picture Their Names, For a long time many paintings Literary works also did not always have titles, author at the time. Many books have gotten their titles from publishers Only after the 18th century or so did artists A major reason for the absence of traditional and themes in the paintings, such as biblical well known to people around where the painting Once easel pictures became more mobile and through traveling exhibitions and the like Many artworks before the 18th century were random person doing something as simple as man's estate in a list. Artworks were titled by middlemen: critics, Gradually these descriptions "morphed" art became more democratized. By the end of the 18th century artists titling Titles being on little labels right next to also a new practice--frequently expositions to know what an image was called in this mess, In one rare case of artist title authorship Vermeer himself titled this "The Art of such shortly after his death. He never sold the painting and likely considered It may seem obvious to us that titles are organize, and differentiate among artworks Titles are especially useless in differentiating Consider the thousands of works titled The Or consider the thousands of artworks titled Once artists naming their own artworks became 20th century, titles began to become noticeably Go to any modern art gallery and you'll and straightforward, or frustratingly cryptic. Some can be fairly clever or enhance your deeper research. Take this minimalist sculpture titled Pair For the most part, modern art is where naming An artwork can be titled Untitled for a variety choose to leave works untitled so the title interpretation" and the work can be read Artists like Felix Gonzales Torres try to followed by a subtitle in parenthesis which and also gives his thoughts on the work. For example: Untitled(Portrait of Ross in Often untitled works are accompanied by a been developed colloquially or assigned by If one type of art deserves "untitled" Like the commanding sculptures of Donald Judd. Marcel Duchamp once said "title is an invisible that is crucial but doesn't physically affect In Duchamp's most famous work, Fountain By submitting an ordinary urinal to an exhibition it Fountain Duchamp transformed this commonplace By calling this mass-produced object something it in an artistic context, something Duchamp exactly could be constituted as art. This work is another ready-made, a regular typical DaDaist title In Advance of the Broken snow without the shovel one could fall and This ready-made by Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven mounted on a wooden box, is titled God. I kind of don't want to explain why it's Marcel Duchamp's deep appreciation for America's Some artists would turn titling into a game. Lee Krasner would often invite friends over Rene Magritte would do the same thing. Magritte would go through a stringent process One painting, The Glass Key, went through Sometimes he would provide a title and then In fact, British art critic David Sylvester (distributed among some 1,800 works), nearly Magritte was a fan of playing with the relationship He was not a fan of psychoanalysis, interpreting As a result many of his titles seem completely When he did give explanations for why paintings kind of insane: Take this painting of a canvas to be nestled in the leaves of the very same depicting. What would you guess the title for this work That's right...The Waterfall. Because, according to Magritte it is; "the "the title The Waterfall suggests that this Magritte's famous picture of suited men quote, "Golconda was an Indian city of riches, I think it is a marvel to travel through the Now these explanations sound like trolling, Like the artist is simply pulling our leg, connections between title and image seriously. Magritte's paintings are incredibly mysterious that mystery just by reading the title. "[My titles] are not keys," he declared, I love how crazy these combinations can get Why and how did this monumentally large rock What put it there? What does a glass key have to do with it? Is there "a key" to the work? Is there some metaphor we're missing? The title comes from the book by Dashiell also has little to do with the subject of By diving into the elements and themes in that gives some answers to these questions, say "ah this is the meaning" but I don't of this work. Magritte clearly took great care when titling are coherent and can be interpreted easily. But in many cases this great care was in service He once said "The title has the same connection among themselves. The figures are brought together in an order The title is brought together with the painted Like a Zen Buddhist Koan, a short story, phrase, and does not have a definitive answer or meaning, "What is the sound of one hand clapping?" Why is this titled The Glass Key? Nearly every artist has their own quirks about Rene Magritte almost always made titles after Jasper Johns sometimes made titles before Pablo Picasso was indifferent about titling, by itself; what good does it do, after all, A painter has only one language." But that didn't stop him from speaking out when they annoyed him. James Abbot Whistler borrowed musical terminology ", "Nocturne", and "Arrangement." Max Ernst has several paintings titled in Jackson Pollock hated titling and eventually and just started numbering them. Sculptor John Chamberlain prefers words that o's" for his titles, such as Possum Blossom. Salvador Dali's titles were often long, So long it makes you wonder if he single-handedly in the 20th century. What if he did? According to an analysis of metadata across 30 countries, longer and more syntactically second half of the 20th century. Titles with ten words or more have grown from With contemporary artworks came longer titles mark. With the overwhelming deluge of sequels and putting out many movie and television titles title. Spider-man: Across the Spiderverse, The Lord Impossible -- Dead Reckoning Part One. This was being complained about all the way worse. I would wager that blockbuster movie titles This appeal to branding is not new in moving still pictures either. Whistler once claimed that his friends had after a character from Charles the market, Whistler dismissed such a gesture really could care for pictorial art at all, its own merit, and not depend upon dramatic, My brothers and I once played a game where books that, on their surface, had nothing you can imagine this was pretty difficult. Most works are named in a sensible way. The best we could come up with was "A Clockwork in fact three explanations. One is that Anthony Burgess heard the phrase pub, the other is that the title was a pun And the third, the most related to the book's for quote "an organic entity, full of juice into an automaton." That such a title requires so much explanation However, there are even fewer book titles In the original book, The Swiss Family Robinson, they don't have surnames. "Robinson" comes from "Robinson Crusoe" consisting of an adventure where the protagonist must use their resourcefulness to survive. Also, in an exceedingly descriptive 18th century 60 words long. Visual artworks are a medium where the title Literature has written titles, movies often or a little bit after the film begins. Nearly every song with lyrics is going to A painting of a concrete subject will have A painting of color fields may just be a number If there is one genre of media that has the submit that is is experimental and electronic Nero's Day at Disneyland titles often psychotically matches the aggressive and glitch-y instrumentals. The electronic musician Aphex Twin often uses consisting of numbers and letters. In some cases these track titles are simply used to make the song. According to Reddit user the_emmo, "Xtal" It could also be pronounced "Crystal" The titles that consist of actual words reference to anagrams, to names of computer viruses. His titles are so off the wall some have asked Autechre Titles are even worse. Even for the very name of the electronic duo and the rest came from bashing randomly on Some titles are simple distortions of real Some are abbreviations of working titles. Some are just as ridiculous as they can get, this number in Arabic th red a. and O=0. These titles allow the music a degree of freedom thing as you listen. There may be explanations for all of them but there is such a high level of abstraction They reinforce the other-worldliness of the you don't understand, you don't have the just have to let your mind drift where the The truth is you can always make a weird title or letters, crafting a lengthy and specific nothing to do with the artwork's subject While these titles can be amusing, generally, What I am really impressed by are titles that elevate the accompanying work of art, they The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Hirst's most famous work, and it's one title is more interesting than the actual The sculpture is simply a tiger shark in formaldehyde, about our relationship with sharks as a deadly prevent death or preserve things at the moment does much to stimulate these lines of thought. It's the title that really gets to me. The Physical Impossibility of Death in the and also a lot to take in. The very act of trying to imagine death is To think of what nothing would feel like is physical impossibility. Such a commanding title paired with such an of life that borders on a shared cosmic horror. "Life changing moments seem minor in pictures", Minecraft musician C418. The album starts off with a track titled "After is full of tracks with other fascinating titles, a little bit of everything in-between. But "life changing moments seem minor in little explanation. Enjoy your worries, you may never have them Is a title that really screws with my head. The song it accompanies features a rowdy plucked produces this, nostalgic, and melancholy atmosphere. The actual song I don't much care for, it's find it that notable. It's not even my favorite song in this band. But this title. It could be read like; enjoy your worries have more severe worries. But another reading is that, anxiety is a appreciate their anxieties. We are told to "count our blessings" but What we worry about drives us to act far more Your worries are part of you, and the worries in your life, and one day, your worries may better and when those worries change, you'll maybe forever. To get all of that from a piece of text attached for, surely makes this is a weird title. Elizabeth Armstrong, a curator of contemporary exhibitions once suggested "in the world or tags, provided by your title the better." In the age of the internet titles in all mediums for algorithms through keywords, capitalization, Subtle and elusive titles have become something admirable about the efficiency of these new create a title that is both attention grabbing Titles provide the challenge of summing up some titles are replaced with different titles to the meaning of a work, some may not have will take with them to the grave, in some becoming a poem within an artwork. Take it from Duchamp in an interview a few painting is another color on the artist's for your work, it might just end up being