Affinity Publisher is a brilliant app for 15 tips that will change your Everything from managing multiple images designs with CSV data, these tips will help you level up fast. Tip number 1 is all about managing photos. If you've worked with any type of you've probably had a headache forth between different programs Photoshop to manage all The cool thing about affinity publisher designer actually built Okay, I've got this picture in my document I don't need to go into I can let Affinity Publisher everything while keeping all of the stuff So I'll just select this picture frame, I'm gonna make sure that the image itself the image itself. Then we're gonna go over to I just want to get that We'll paint in a bit of a selection. If you get any extra things like this little spot right here, alt key on windows and brush over that And it can be pretty rough, when you're And we can see anything that's I also like to switch this to black and I do wanna get some of I can click foreground and And when you're happy with your selection, a new layer. I'm gonna go ahead and now we can see the background is gone. And now I can move the model around the background. If you're happy with your changes just go All of your layers are still there and all that stuff, Affinity Publisher So there's no need to import or it's all right there For tip number 2, If you're anything like me, managing because I, for one, can never decide on and I'll spend way too much time just With global colors, it allows you to and then change that color for So let's see how that works. Here, I've got this I'd like to be able to save I'm gonna bring the swatch panel out, and click the little hamburger We can see three options here for system palettes. And we also have an option for the same three options for Now when you create these it's basically telling you the scope of If you create an application palette is that you currently have open, so if you you can do that. If you create a document palette it's current document, but And if you create a system palette this it'll be stored on your computer, and But since we want to use global colors, create a document palette. And here in swatches, Swatches for This is really, really handy. It's also named this for us. It's business cards, and if I want to I'll need to first convert then assign them as global colors. So let's go ahead and select some of I'm gonna deselect everything and then just double click to get into that I'll go up to the Select menu, select So it now has all of the different There are two buttons over here. One is to add the current then one other for And that's what we'll go ahead and select. Now you can also right-click and convert any swatch you want to a global So since I have these all all I need to do is now click that new and it's got to deselect everything. And if I wanna change that orange, for I can go ahead and And you can see as I drag it's changing not just one object but Global colors can save a ton of time and at the beginning of your document, and in Affinity Publisher and When you open up a new document it creates a whole bunch of And if you found those kind of confusing, I found them confusing when I But there's actually a really I'm gonna show you how to use that. All right, so in this document I've from a template, and when I create this document, Let's drag that text styles box out here, There are three different There's the paragraph style itself, and then there are style groups. And in terms of hierarchy, then paragraph styles, and then To see how this works, I'll just right-click and edit body. In the style editor, we can see on this Looking at our text styles here, a paragraph symbol next to it and doesn't It means it's a style group. We don't apply style Instead, we reference them from So this body style is referencing base. We can also see some of the settings What that means is that it's just taking it's not applying any changes at all, but So let's go ahead and apply the body style then just click body to apply it and a different size, all that stuff. So let's update the base, so we can see So I'll select this box that I'll right-click Base and we can see the font changes, It's still large, but The font matches our style above, so I'll just right-click and We can see on the character panel We just change that to no change, it's just going to take Base groups that it's referencing and Just click OK. So let's go ahead and apply that H2 style. Just click the box, click Heading 2. We right click on Heading 2, Edit Heading We can see it's 14 points. Let's go ahead and change that back to 9 cuz we do want Go to Color and Decorations and let's just drag this down a little bit, use this eyedropper to just sample We can see that that's now applied. Let's go ahead and apply that Now, assume I want to change the font for I can do that directly All I have to do is right click on it, And if I change this from Open Sans to, it's going to filter down to everything Using the hierarchy of paragraph styles is And that's it for tip number three. Working with multiple languages is and you'll often find yourself having a single design. In this case, I have a business card that Now, when I go to do Spellcheck, So let's go to Window and go to Preflight. And we can see that everything's it's flagging the two Spanish words. And we don't want it to And we wanna make sure that when a word that is misspelled that we get So we can actually control this So let's drag out our We can see that Heading 2 is And I'm going to just create a character Spanish. Let's go over to the Character panel and we can see both. And make sure that this I'll select all the texts in And on our Character panel, we can typography and Right now it's set to English, And gonna create a character style for Up here where it says No Style, call this Spanish and click OK. Now I have a Spanish style I can just click on that to apply it. When we look over here at our Preflight We can see that there are no spelling those Spanish words. Note if I triple click on this and select me English suggestion because it doesn't All it gives me is the option for So now as we go through the document, Spanish, all I need to do is just Spellcheck will automatically Throughout this tutorial, I've been like these business card templates, and even the motion graphic templates I put together a collection over there, there's a link down in the description. And if you'd like to grab these assets production and improve your workflow, Creating personalized versions it's not something that's it's one of the most common tasks that So I've got my business card here. We've got some filler information like the rather than having the actual account for So let's import some data from HR. Look up to Window, and I want to open the Data Merge Manager. It'll bring up this little window It has a button to add And when I click that to bring in I've got this test CSV here, so let's go And I'm gonna check this box for preview actual phone numbers. But I'm not going to click Generate Instead, I'm gonna go up to Window again, and open the Fields panel. Drag this down here so just collapse some of these options We have some default options here like where we find page numbers and We can add fields for those. But what I'm interested test data.csv because that's And we can see all of the different We've got a sequential number, we've street and address, and So I just want to replace the filler with some of the fields from this panel. So let's go ahead and click on the name_first, select it and then double click Just double click on title. Same thing for our Facebook account. I think that's social 1 and Now, right now we're previewing If I go back up to Window and go to my through the different records and see Once you're happy with your design, And Publisher will create a new each person, all on individual pages. All we need to do now is send this off correctly, get approval from cards, and Going from InDesign, you might find confusing at first, but And here in Tip 6 I'm gonna incredible in Affinity Publisher. To add columns and rows, you're actually go down Guides. In this menu, you'll be able to add and you can also add columns. So if I wanted to add four columns, I just need to drag those sliders up. We can also edit the gutter we'll give it a little bit less gutter. We can also change the preview for these. I tend to use the outline view so But you can change that to filled, if you You can change your margins here as well, the document Setup, and One of my favorite things is use the percentage So if I want a ruler that's exactly 50% bottom, that's where it's maybe I want that to be 25% of the way. So it's exactly a quarter All I have to do is change that to 25% and I don't need to do any math or I just type in percentage right there, So, I've created this layout on page one, it has not been applied to pages two, What I'd recommend doing when is creating your rough So, let's go to Master A, And we'll go ahead and So we'll go to View and then go to Guides, And I think I'll just go with three rows and then go ahead and click Close. We can see this applies to It doesn't apply to just one page, And if I go to pages two and three, we can see that it has And if I wanna create a new, slightly all I have to do is right-click Master A, We'll double-click on that and And maybe for this one, we'll set it up so that it doesn't have as many columns and Go ahead and click Close. And now, I can apply Master B and then pages two and This is a really quick way to get something that's procedural that you you're adding your wireframe and And even though guides are a little bit the way that they're set up, now that I And that's it for tip number six. For designers, math typically we still end up having to do it quite a and making sure things are nice and But Affinity Publisher will actually All right, here are my infographic. I've got these three bars, and correspond to the percentage So let's go ahead and select one of these. I'm gonna be using So let's drag out the Transform panel, Now, I've got this little collection These are the anchor points. And I want these all to So go ahead and that it scales down to the left and Now, we've got our width of 23 points and It really doesn't matter because we're just going to multiply So this first one should be 42%. I'm assuming these bars are all 100%, Now, let's go ahead and And I'm using the asterisk Press Enter, and we can see it's This is the same thing with this one, we'll just multiply using the asterisk, Perfect, we got 78% of what it was before. And we'll do the last one here, So we'll just multiply using asterisk Now, you can do this with pretty much even rotational degrees, so Never need to open your When you start to get really, when you're making a textbook or really unwieldy, really, really fast. Fortunately, Publisher has a great way and it's called, So let's go up to File, and we're just gonna go to New Book. It will open up this panel over here on we've got this Add Chapter button. When I click this, it's going to open And we can select any files that we want to be our chapters. So I've got all of the different demos I'm just gonna hold Shift and Click Open, and those here in the Books And this is really, first, I don't have to have one document slowing down my computer, I can break Another thing that's really powerful is it's saying that this is the style source, Let's go ahead and open this one. I'm gonna go ahead and open Business And I can just synchronize settings and textiles, or table formats and So when we do that, it's going to apply And that way, if I need to manage styles, I don't have to scroll through I can just go up to my master, change and apply that to all This also includes a page count feature, it will keep track of how many pages So you can still use your When you wanna save your book, menu on the Books panel, and Give it a name, And click Save.. And it will keep track of where and then each one of the documents will It's not a feature that it's not something that I really But when you are working on really, really And that's tip number eight. Keeping your text readable, but also having really interesting In Publisher, though, we can use text So look at this triangle here, I'm going to select the triangle, we'll just go to Text Wrap and make sure As I drag this down here, you can see it us, which is really nice. It doesn't move any of the artistic it only affects text that's There are two different types of you wanna keep that in mind whenever We have the frame text tool in then we also have the artistic text. Artistic text is not Now, let's go ahead and move this triangle What about our image here of our model Well, Publisher actually uses So if your image has an alpha channel, or like we have here, image that we masked the transparency channel in your Let's have a look at how that works. I'm gonna click the image and let's And I do wanna expand this out and not the image box, or the picture frame. So now they've got that selected, And if I go up to my tech strap settings, You can see. immediately pushes all that text around, the text is not going to And we can actually go in here, our text will always get We don't have to rearrange our text box, is making sure that we don't We can also add a little bit of So we can select the image with And if I wanna push the text we can make sure that it's at four pixels from the top, We can also link, we can see our text now just This is really, really handy and a great way to make sure everything stays be moving your text boxes around to If you'd like adding texture to your through your folder of texture images, I'm just going to select we'll give it a gradient and So we'll change the fill type go ahead and apply that using or g on the keyboard, and Now that the gradients applied, we can switch it around if we want. But I'm gonna go ahead and open up Select the knot that you want to edit, I'm gonna make this one a little bit And down at the very bottom, which essentially just adds There's no need to add any images or it's just right there built in and The nice thing is that we can also control because each knot has its own noise So let's go to the second knot. We'll edit that color a little bit. I'm gonna make it just I'll add a little less noise for a variation where it's smooth in some And now as we move around, you can see So as you zoom in, you can see it's And that's it for tip number 10. My favorite things about affinity designer cause it's really really fast and Okay, we've got the planet I just might clip it to this iPad shape, And then in the layer stack, that the rectangle is highlighted blue. If we drag it so that the thumbnail that's going to be a mask. But if the entire thing is highlighted So it's essentially You drop, it it'll turn that into a group, then you still have control So you can still go in and if you want to move this item you can select that within So we can scale that down and You don't need to use any hotkeys or it's essentially the same as just managing As your projects get more complex, you selecting the items that you want and In tip number 12, which will really speed that process up. If you go up to the top and really powerful menu, and I wanna be able to select Unfortunately, if I go to select same, it's going to get everything with that, So that's not exactly what I want. So let's go ahead and get one of these. I'll go over to the layer stack, Select all of the other plus signs. Now instead of going to the selection go all the way to the bottom of this. We can see these little colored dots. I'm gonna apply a red tag to this and Now if I click any of these, we can see it's got a little red mark next to it, So all I have to do is select one of them, and go down to select same tag color. We can also add tags by name too. So you can have name tags this is a really quick way to make not feasible to have things separated by We can go ahead and speed up that selection process immensely. If you've dealt with images like Landscape image and a portrait format challenging to fit them all But as graphic designers, that's what Here in this template, I've got a couple One is a wide format, and And unfortunately, Scale down and get squished, A better idea is to go ahead and even though this is a template and already It pays to go ahead and because it'll help us I'm just gonna delete these two for now. And instead of importing the images place some picture frame rectangles And I can be pretty loose about this for I'll just drag one out to duplicate it. We can select it, hold the option key, I'm also holding shift to make I'll hold Shift to select both of those. And again, holding an option key, we can make more duplicates of those. And I just need one more. So holding the option key and the Shift Now we've got our rectangles, place images right into those frames. So we'll go up to file, select the five images that I need and And it brings up this menu over here on and you can see that they're all with the one on top being We can hover over any of those see it's going to give us a preview of I have to do is click once to place the and we can go ahead and Now, it looks kinda the same, but and if I go back to the selection tool and We can now move this around and scale it, and instead of squishing our images And we can actually change So for instance, if we wanted it to we can select that frame, right click it, we'll select one of these different We'll make sure that the entire I'm just gonna undo that and We can use those little arrow. Keys to just move that over, so This one here, We can also see that he's filling So in this case, this one, we might fill in with some background And now, I just wanna make sure that and that brings us to the next tip, When you're doing your page layout, it's really crucial to make sure fortunately, Publisher is really, If I wanna scale these boxes up, so name tags underneath, And it's because the snapping menu, has a lot of different options So let's look up here at this button for which is our little magnet icon up here. And currently it's enabled, let's click the drop-down and see why. Up at the top, we've got some presets, and then we have all these And we also have candidates, which is typically gonna I'm gonna change this preset And I'm also gonna change candidates And now, it will go ahead and It's also snapping to a whole bunch of wanna limit it to only snapping to hierarchy of layers. The reason it wasn't snapping before are on a separate layer, while all of our But now that we've enabled we can go ahead and scale all of these, And as we do this with more and it'll start to recognize And you can see all these different what it's matching in terms of size and So we can see all these like the 52.3 says that it's now And as it detects that pattern, about what it's snapping to, So now that we've got more and more of these set up the way that we want easy to get them all snapped exactly where All right, last but This one, I said, would be a surprise, and I think it is kind of a surprise it's the availability of adjustment We don't even need to go to the photo We can do it right here on So, for instance, maybe I wanna have All I have to do is go into the layer Adjustments, and Effects just like we and I can click on Adjustments. We'll go to the black and white white adjustment layer for us right here. It is going to affect everything we can also crop this and Let's go ahead and drag a box to mask it. I'm gonna create a rectangle I can just drag that out over then I'm going to drag that and drop it So now it's not going to it's only going to affect And then we can still go in and So it's completely non-destructive other applications. We can go in here and tweak our colors until we are happy And we can even do separate adjustment So since all of these colors are quite find that we want different black and So let's go ahead and I'm actually going to release that layer So I'll just drag it and drop it on the white for just that photo. So we can go ahead and duplicate that, do Cmd+C to copy and Cmd+V to paste. And we will just crop this And then we can go in, and now we can manage And we can do, again, all of this without ever having to go We can do it all right here in Publisher. We can get really, If you're a designer who likes to use this can be really, really powerful when [MUSIC] That's it, 15 tips for Affinity Publisher. I'd love to know your tips down in the questions, don't hesitate to leave As always, like and subscribe if you'd learn more about Affinity Publisher or Make sure to enable notifications too, so that you get new videos I've been Drew, and [MUSIC]