- Hello there. I must win today. *awkward noise* Hey, why are you silent? Because I muted him again. *murmurs* But how do you think Umm, actually... Hahaha, you're all under my control. So you can win only if I want to. Do you want to prove that There is nothing to prove. But now you get muted. *murmurs* Hey, you are not supposed to do that. Get muted again. *murmurs* Okay then, Horsey, go. He is starting with his knight. Maybe he is thinking about He is a donkey. So it doesn't matter Let me develop myself. I have the ability to kill him. Okay, then you, pawn, go and make They are doing the king's gambit, Lmao. Horsey, go. It's time to torture - Chika chuck. Bishop, go there No, you bishop stay there. Why am I going to listen to you? I am loyal to my king You, bishop, you have Now you have to die. Lmao, if you kill me, Hahaha, I know that no pieces and after my death, I still can come back But are you ready *gulps* Wakanda forever! One bishop is dead, What's the point, king? Yeah, what do I do? Castle first, make yourself safe You are right. Bishop, do the fianchetto Okay, sire. Is he gonna get out in that way? I can do that too. Hahahaha. Horsey, develop yourself. Pawn, go and make Who are you? We only listen to our lord - Go, pawn. F*ck. At this rate, bishop is gonna ruin chess It's castling time. Horsey, develop yourself. But don't come here. If you come here, But a knight in the rim is dim. You silly boy, Okay, sire, I get it. F*ck, now my way is blocked. So what? You have sacked and used me so many times Now stay stuck there. *awkward noise* Are you stuck step, queen? I cannot move much But that pawn can't move Hey, pawn, yo go so this pawn can move Why not kill that pawn No, if I do that, Okay. He is attacking the center. I am already protecting but still, rook, come. Sure, queen. Horsey, go to the outpost If the bishop or horsey kills you, which will make me You are all the same. Also, I want to say that It will also make you free. Shut the f*ck up. *murmurs* Speak. No, don't do this. Get muted again. *murmurs* Horsey, do it. Okay. Hello, queen. I am fine. I have no options. Okay. Should I use horsey I choose horsey. No, queen, don't do this. This is a necessary sacrifice. No, use your bishop. - Try to understand - Horsey, kill the knight. Noooo. Well, that didn't serve any purpose. You are still All I need to do is But if he moves, If he moves, your queen What's more important to you, simp? Killing me or saving Aaaaah! Stop crying, you simp. Horsey, now kill the knight - But why? But it's pointless. Wait, no, don't kill my horsey. Wakanda forever! Now, queen, come here. Wait, this is not right. You are making me do things What are you gonna do? Whatever, let me kill - *burps* Rook, attack rook. - Come on, kill me. Now I am gonna do Hey, queen, have you ever heard Oh no, shit, not again. 'War Thunder' again? You can't kill me until I finish Gotta keep this channel No. 'War Thunder' is the most... ...comprehensive vehicle combat game This game has more than 2000 tanks, ships, and so many vehicles like we did in the war of 1969. Wait, did you say vehicle? Yes, the vehicles have in depth customization system such as camouflages, historical markings in anywhere, Everything is super detailed which offers a Okay, this is madness. I don't know what This game has authentic and incredible graphics, which can immerse you You can play now on PC, and obviously, PlayStation 5 White queen, The collection of vehicles If you want a fast action 'War Thunder' is here for you. What the fish? This game has very realistic attention I like the feature where I can control every Hahahaha. This is the part where he will talk about Download this game now with our link XP boosters, premium accounts You finished now? Check the pinned comment and... Looks like I can. Be ready for death. Wait, first let me kill the rook. - But why. - No, don't do it. Why did you come here? - No, I am here for revenge. - Why are you running, rook? Dammit. What the f*ck? - What are you doing? Hey, kill me. No, I am not interested because I am protecting this pawn. Let me protect the pawn. What? Are you indirectly No, no. Checkmate. - What? and you can't go there So it's checkmate. Umm, you didn't see my rook. - Be ready to die. I need to do this for my king. You meant you still serve What? - The prove it. Say you will download Fine, I will download it. Yay, I am going now. *awkward silence* - Umm, you die now. - Checky checky check check. - Again check. Why did you kill her? Bruh, she is coming back - We know everything now. Yeah, go ahead, pawn. What did you say? I will whoop your ass My major pieces are gone. You wanna die? No, pawn, don't kill him. Okay, king. - Checky checky check check. Checky check checky check. How does it feels Ask your king. Hey, why did you kill him instantly? You should have given him a second for the checky chukcy check check. Shut the f*ck up - Now you're in check. - Now I am gonna gobble these pawns up. Lmao, I tricked you. - Now I will kill pawns in this side. - Check. Looks like this king won't I need backup. - Checky checky check check. If I move away, I can't let that happen. I don't need queen. - I will mate you with a pawn. But I can't push this pawn, So I will go there. Now I am here Well, I will play a waiting move. Dammit, now I have to move back. And it's mate. Checky checky mate mate. So the video is over. You are in the dark void, so... download 'War Thunder' now with our link to get premium vehicles, - XP boosters, premium accounts and... - The video is over. Noooo.