Vanessa: I mean, really level up your vocabulary? Well, to learn 25 advanced English expressions that are from SpeakEnglishWithVanessa.com and like always these important phrases, definitions, and sample a quiz. Test yourself and see if you have really on the link in the description to download this If you've been learning English with me here teach you real-life vocabulary, words and But sometimes it's fun to level up your daily So I specifically chose expressions today but also are absolutely used in daily in your natural conversations. You don't or an academic situation. You can use these in accumulate. Look at this sentence and I want you a lot of snow accumulated overnight. What do you As I teach you all 25 of these phrases, I'm first because I want you to use all of the ideas to guess the definition. If I just give you you to try to guess the definition first. Take the Let's go on to the second one. Phrase number bike? I think it needs an adjustment. It's question that I asked my neighbor who is a stopped. So what is an adjustment? It's simply stops making that noise. Phrase number three of this word is pronounced like a D in American my daily life. Let me check my availability This simply means, am I free? Do I have any me check my availability. Advanced phrase Take a look at this sample sentence. I don't but it's a good benchmark number. Here, the to eat at least five different vegetables each but it's a good benchmark. I think about different vegetable today in order to reach that but I would like to expand that to use Take a look at this strict project deadline I'm going to be able to meet it. Do you think No. It has put me in a bind. This means it has So it has put me in a difficult situation. a good job and also make the deadline. This less quality work in order to meet the deadline. Take a look at this sentence. This job might you get the idea here that I'm in a bind and then This job will be exactly what I was hoping for we use this when there is a discovery. So we might in medicine. It helped to solve a big problem seven is capability. To wear a cape? No. Take a she has the capability of feeding herself but she does have this capability. And what does another advanced and fun way to say ability. or the capability to feed herself. Just grow Advanced phrase number eight is circulate. What if I said to you, the news circulated We get the idea that all the neighbors are way through the neighborhood, and that's the freely pass around. So if your neighbors like idea of news circulates quite quickly through is to collaborate. I collaborated with over 17 lesson for you. It's true. To collaborate means beautiful thing, such as this wonderful lesson Maybe your interests or your values are not a better solution in the end. Make sure you 17 teachers had to say about how to speak awesome teachers. Advanced phrase number 10 is word. To coordinate. Coordinate. There are two To coordinate. Coor. Coor. Coordinate. So to coordinate schedules with some of my friends my kid's doing this at this time. Oh, then one kid to coordinate our schedules.&quot; And coordinate We are coordinating a time to be able to see Advanced phrase number 11 is to dedicate. Recently Hurricane Helene, and we can use this expression volunteers dedicated their time to help people in in the city around the country, even from Canada. to fix my electricity. There were people from in need. This is an important thing to see when the good that's being done. And dedicate here just So thank you to everyone who dedicates their Advanced phrase number 12 is to delegate. This is certain chores to my kids. This means that I don't all the laundry, all the cleaning up, but I try to delegate those chores to my give tasks to other people. So my kids help to dishes in the sink. Sometimes they help to fold trying to teach them those skills, but it's also phrase number 13 sounds similar to delegate, Look at this sentence. I designated a certain beautiful thing when you can use money for and you can use money to give. So I designated you guess what that means? It just means that a specific purpose. I designated, I chose Advanced phrase number 14 is efficient. I try you know what is not efficient? Public transport you usually need to rent a car. It's just the way means it works quickly, effectively. Well, I try but public transportation in the US, Advanced phrase number 15 is eligible. Eligible. giving you the details of the job might company for one year, you become eligible for some you become eligible for certain benefits.&quot; What get those benefits. You cannot have those benefits you have the right to get those benefits. number 16 is endeavor. Endeavor. Take a look You are trying to climb that mountain in one endeavor. Usually we use the word endeavor goes together. You could say it's a big endeavor, And it just means a challenging task or project. in just one day. Good luck. Advanced phrase often use this with a full phrase, I could sense If I said to my child, &quot;Wow, I can really My four-year-old son tries to take stickers for little fingers to get stickers off. So he Mommy.&quot; He gets frustrated about it. So I could frustration with those stickers. It's something Advanced phrase number 18 is functional. but they aren't functional Really nowadays, as a mom, all my shoes are because I just need functional shoes nowadays. something works easily or smoothly. You get tennis shoes, flat shoes, not high heels, nothing number 19 is glimpse. We often use the full past a mirror and you don't realize that there's I caught a glimpse of myself in the mirror and right? So you get the idea that a glimpse catch a glimpse, &quot;Oh, it's just a quick look. Advanced phrase number 20 is generic. Generic. look at this. The hotel room had a lot of generic nothing unique. Generic just means simple, plain, when generic is a good thing is with medicine. watch my video here where I show you an American you will often see two different versions of what we call a generic version. Usually they have that store. It's not this fancy brand name, and So for me, I often buy a generic medication Advanced phrase number 21 is one that I but I often use this by saying, &quot;Can we just have When you have three kids, if it's a rainy day it gets loud, sometimes kids start to fight outside. Harmony means peace, working together we just have some peace and harmony in here for phrase number 22. We're almost at the end here. We hierarchy. Notice the pronunciation here. Higher, Hierarchy. You might say &quot;It takes a long time for complicated hierarchy. No one is allowed to make ask their boss, who has to ask their boss, who has And ugh, it takes forever to get things done what's a hierarchy? Well, it's just a system be a hierarchy of animals, possibly a is with people where you have to ask a lot Advanced phrase number 23 is immense. the damage from the storm was immense. In fact, worst damage that they had ever seen in their have a natural disaster in the mountains. It's The damage is immense. Can you guess what that Now I used it in a negative way. The damage a positive way. We might say that I love my amount of love, and that's a positive thing, a positive way. Advanced phrase number 24. It is interact. Interact. I want to let we often cut out that first T and it sounds just gone. It's on vacation somewhere, having a So let me give you a sample sentence. My in the museum. Interacting with the exhibits in My kids loved interacting with the exhibits that you're communicating or reacting children's museums will have things and you can learn different concepts or experience exhibits in the museum. And drum roll, the today is landmark. Landmark. When there was the in a little town, this beautiful red water wheel we could say. The water coming from the This landmark is something that people often So we can use the word landmark to talk about we think of Paris, what's the landmark? what do you think of? The pyramids. Those they'll be able to repair this cute water wheel congratulations. You just learned 25 advanced download the free PDF worksheet. There's a link PDF worksheet, you will get each of these sample sentences, and you can answer the quiz Because it's great to watch this video, So if you want to remember them, I reviewing the phrases, and taking the the link in the description to download thank you so much for learning English with me, lesson here on my YouTube channel. Bye. watching this video next where you will learn including why do I call my friends birds? Watch