If you used every particle in the observable and do full quantum simulation of some chunk of the universe, how big would that chunk be? Would it be: a solar system, a planet, a cat? It would be at best a large molecule. That's how insanely information dense the And yet we routinely simulate systems with thousands, or even millions of particles. How? By cheating. Let's learn how to cheat the universe. Quantum mechanics allows us to predict the incredible precision. For example, let's say you want to know it's bouncing around inside a box, or part slit experiment. You just scratch the good ol' Schrodinger learn the probability distribution of the the system, or whatever. That's neat if you're really, really interested But for almost every practical use you'd particles interacting - and then the blackboard You need exponentially more computing power and more storage the more particles you have. It gets pretty bad. In fact you need more particles than exist in the solar system to store the wavefunction of the electrons in a single iron atom. And yet we can do this for thousands of atoms. To understand how, first up, let's take a look at the Schrodinger equation. This is the time-independent version. It describes how the wavefunction of a quantum particle - that's this psi thing - changes over space, assuming the particle is in some energies - that's the V. V could result atom, or the EM fields defining the walls And this E is just the total energy of the For an electron in a box or in a hydrogen form solutions to this equation define the You can also solve the Schrodinger equation that wavefunction gives the the probability if you try to measure it. The time independent Schrodinger equation mechanics - it's an approximation that works over time. But it's where we start learning quantum cases. There's one other complexity we avoided. Our Schrodinger equation just dealt with one That's nice because then the wavefunction That array stores the wavefunction doesn't store the actual location, which Of course the real universe has 3 spatial we'd want Psi(x,y,z). That's a big increase in the information Let's say we have a fairly crude grid of The 3-D equivalent would need 10^3 - 1,000 OK, now let's say we want to do the 26 electrons in an iron atom instead of the 1 electron in hydrogen. That's 26 times the data right? No. Those electrons are all interacting with each content just a tad. Each new electron doesn't just add a new set of values to the same 3-D array. Every new electron adds 3 new entire dimensions. So 26 electrons means 78 dimensions, which This little estimation came from the physicist He's the one who pointed out that to describe need to store more numbers than there are Let's dig into why we really need this much We'll do it with an analogy. Roll a single six-sided die. We know we can get outcomes 1-6. That's a 1-dimensional space of possibilities. Now roll a second die, again giving you 1-6. Our total outcome space includes 6 possible 6 possible outcomes of the first - so 36 outcomes. We can represent this by first drawing a line first die. The second die expands this space to 2-D. Adding particles to the Schrodinger equation time we add a particle we increase the dimensionality of the wavefunction. The x, y, and z in the Psi of the first electron the second. For every coordinate point for electron one, point for electron two. And for a given pair of coordinate points every possible point for electron 3 ... and So it seems like even for a single atom of can't even store the wavefunction let alone So, do we pack up and go home? Well, what if we can cheat? Cheating in quantum mechanics often means finding a solution to a problem that's much simpler than the one you're actually interested in, and then finding ways to tweak that solution to get what we really want. Now to solve the impossible case of many interacting quantum particles, we should start by thinking about the completely solvable case of many In other words, Newtonian mechanics. When we use Newton to solve, say, the three-body problem, we can solve the equations for each of the 3 particles separately. We don't need a 3-cubed or 9 dimensional In fact astrophysicists do huge galaxy simulations of millions of particles without doing millions-of-dimension calculations. So why is that possible? Well, these systems do sort of exist in a space. But for the classical case we can throw away most of configuration space and consider just the few points in that space where the particles actually exist at a given point in time. In quantum mechanics, we're dealing with all of configuration space. For perfect precision we can't throw any of it away. Not only that, but quantum mechanics contains non-local correlations which arise because the position of one quantum particle can restrict the set of possible through the Pauli exclusion principle and In the Newtonian case, particles only interact locally, and that means the Newtonian equations of motion are what we call separable. An equation is separable if the solution along one axis - in one dimension - doesn't depend on the solutions on any other axis. If this is true then we can take an equation for N particles in 3D and reduce it from a 3^N dimensional equation to simply N coupled equations each in 3D. In fact in Newtonian mechanics we can not only write down the equations of motion for each particle separately, we can write the x, y, and z equations of motion separately also. That gives us a sufficiently sane number of coupled equations that we can actually solve. But if we want to keep the quantum behaviour of quantum mechanics we can't throw away most of configuration space like we do in Newtonian mechanics. We need to know the wavefunction for every particle everywhere. And we can't reduce the dimensionality by Schrodinger equation can't be made "separable". Doing so destroys quantum correlations. And yet despite the apparent impossibility than a few particles, researchers still manage to do quantum simulations of some extremely complex systems. And that's because they have the cheat code. That code is D-F-T. Now, make sure you get the order right or it won't work. It stands for density functional theory, and to tackling the extreme dimensionality problem when solving realistic quantum systems. As an example, here's a quantum simulation of the millions of atoms comprising the capsid of a virus done using density functional theory, and here's resonant excitation in the many electrons of a molecule . So how does DFT do a calculation that should need to manipulate vastly more bits of information than there are particles in the entire universe? Remember what we talked about - try to solve a problem that you CAN solve, and then tweak it to the more challenging case. In the case of DFT, what you do is just pretend the electrons aren't interacting with each other and solve for that case. And through a very mysterious quality of the quantum world, it's possible to map that fake solution to real answers. Let me try to give you a sense of how this The "mysterious quality" is expressed Walter Kohn and Pierre Hohenberg. The first theorem basically states that if state, no matter how complicated, the properties of that system are uniquely determined by position density of those electrons. The position density - or more commonly the charge density - is just a tiny fragment of the information held in the total wavefunction of all of those electrons. It's a 3-D entity - just a map of how much The Hohenberg-Kohn theorems say that you can map from this charge density to the interesting observables - like the energy of the system, without having to go through the impossibly complex many-electron wavefunction. So we start with a bad guess at the ground closer to the truth, and we do this for the electrons. Because they aren't interacting, the equations of motion for these electrons are separable, just like in Newtonian mechanics. Instead of using the Schrodinger equation, There's that Kohn guy again - he got the These equations basically let you translate the fictitious non-interacting case. Solving those equations becomes possible, and it gets you the ground state energy for your guess at the charge density. Then iterate until everything is consistent and the charge density converge. And according to the theorem that we started with, that ground state charge distribution is unique - it corresponds both to the fake non-interacting and to the true interacting case. From there you can go ahead and calculate whatever observable you're interested in. The secret sauce that makes this work is something called the energy functional - it's the functional in density functional theory. When given a ground state density, it let's "Kohn-Sham" system and figure out its DFT is all about finding the energy functional. We never know the exact functional, just that it exists - and so we have to approximate it. So yeah, that's a very crude summary. The main takeaway is that physicists realised that a tiny sliver of the full wavefunction - the density distribution - could be mapped to all sorts of useful observables. Without taking, like, the entire age of the universe and a solar-system sized computer. The key is understanding that the final solution must be self-consistent - basically, it has to obey the Schrodinger equation - and the that solution. Density functional theory has now been used to model the intricate quantum-level behavior of chemical reactions, of complex molecules even as far as DNA or that viral capsid from earlier, and many advanced materials like semiconductors, nanostructures, etc. Being able to calculate this stuff is nice. I mean, it's essential for our technological But what does DFT actually tell us about the universe? What does it mean that there exists a map and really all the information we want to It's like the ultimate compression algorithm. For one thing, it's good news if we ever We won't need a computer bigger than the But there are no doubt deeper truths to be with its insane hyper dimensionality is connected to the narrow sliver of that wavefunction that represents our observed reality. Our computationally tractable reality, due You know what really helps this show? Subscribing and hitting that little bell button to make sure you're notified when we upload a new episode. Watching soon after release helps the YouTube algorithm know it should share the vid. Another thing that is enormously helpful is the support that we receive on Patreon - so if you donate there, thank you so much. And today I'd like to give a special shoutout to Peter Barrett, who's supporting us on patreon at the big bang level. Peter, the infinite dimensional universal to describe your generosity. Thanks for keeping us functional, and for OK, we have a couple of episodes worth of speculative. First we have the one about black holes puncturing the Earth, and then the one about how we might search for Dyson spheres or other alien megastructures. Black holes first. We told you that an asteroid-mass, atom-sized black hole would pass straight through the earth if it impacted. Pizzacrusher asks whether that's only true Absolutely right. The assumption in this calculation is that and fell into the solar system. The minimum velocity it could have on reaching the Earth is the solar system's escape velocity at Earth's orbit, or around 42 km/s. The the fast-moving stationary material on its way through. But the narrow column carved by the black hole itself, so it doesn't slow down much. Most likely the black hole was moving faster than 42 km/s - that would only be the case if it had exactly the same galactic orbit It could be moving at up to a couple of hundred km/s. Either way, it'll still have solar system never see it again. It's possible to imagine a scenario where its way to the Earth - perhaps it punctured speed that way. But it would need to reach Earth's surface moving at 10 or so km/s to get stuck in the planet - perhaps after a couple of passes. I'm told that this scenario is incredibly So sorry to disappoint. And speaking of black holes hitting the Sun, Christian asks whether that would be detectable. And for that matter, what about Jupiter. don't read this Well for the sun and Jupiter it's marginally possible that if you were looking at the right spot you'd see a flash of X-rays - as the thing bright on its own, so you'd really have our current X-ray satellites could do it. I did see a paper that claimed we might be set up inside a star after a black hole passage. But as far as I know this has not been spotted yet. As for looking for impact evidence on the weird-shaped craters that we might be able to distinguish if we were to look. Oromandias asks whether the scenario of the Neil Stephenson's book Seveneves is plausible - in which a primordial black hole destroyed the moon. We actually interviewed Stephenson on this show about the book back in the day, and at the time I was too polite to say - absolutely not possible. The black hole could never deposit enough break it apart. It would need to grant the entire moon enough energy to overcome its own self-gravity. Not remotely conceivable. To be fair though, the book wasn't really Ok, moving on to searching for Dyson spheres. Krkrunner speculates that if a civilization they might also be able to mask it from detection. That might be the case, but it's likely perfect masking. Energy becomes useful when it's moved between a low entropy to a high entropy configuration. A Dyson sphere reprocessing a sun's visible light into infrared, ultimately releasing exactly as much energy as it absorbed, but If it weren't releasing as much energy as would have to heat up until the input-output equilibrium is reached. So our aliens do have to shed their heat somehow. It's conceivable that they could channel beams sent to hopefully-empty patches of the sky. Such a beam has a lower entropy than isotropic thermal radiation, and so less energy is made available for the aliens. But sure, if they really want to avoid the Defeshh points out that it's scary to imagine an alien civilization that would need the amount of energy generated by a Dyson sphere. I completely agree. Especially if they're still scared of bigger aliens. Now the discussion that followed several people speculating on what they might need all that energy for. Phudlow may have hit on the biggest potential energy sink - FTL travel, if possible, will certainly take a ridiculous amount of energy. As in the rest masses of entire planets. One Dyson sphere wouldn't actually cut it But actually, even nearly-light-speed travel can be a real gas guzzler, so perhaps Dyson spheres are made to power light sail lasers that accelerate craft to 99.9999blahblah% the speed of light speed. And actually there's a way to shed your when the Reapers arrive. Another potential energy need is matrioskha brain. Basically, this is a planet-sized computer that could run a virtual world supporting our uploaded minds as virtual intelligences. And that would presumably take quite a bit of energy, depending on the frame rate. And Angelbar points out the other thing we might do with a matryoshka brain powered by a a Dyson Sphere. Which somehow seems, horrifyingly more likely. That is to mine bitcoin. In fact, will we even have a choice in the matter after the bitcoin mining AIs take over and cannibalize the world to build Dyson Spheres to power a hash cashing matryoshka brain. Our awesome space-faring, megastructure-building