1961. At the height of the Cold War between the Yuri Gagarin became the first man in space. Just weeks later, the United States launched 'All systems are go!' He was welcomed home as a hero, but President was to overtake the Soviet space programme, "I believe that this nation should commit decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon As Kennedy addressed congress, the United experience. No one knew if a moon landing was even possible, It would be an unprecedented engineering and ...and tragedy. The incredible task of landing an astronaut Before NASA could start designing a spacecraft questions about how it would send astronauts Perhaps the man best placed to provide answers Von Braun. Von Braun had spearheaded development of Nazi War 2. It was the world's first long-range guided After the war, he'd been recruited by the He joined NASA as the first director of its The most obvious way to complete a lunar landing to the Moon and back again. But a spacecraft large enough to carry all for the journey would need an impossibly huge Von Braun wanted to solve this problem by smaller rockets, and assembling it in orbit But there was still the problem of landing surface. NASA engineer John Houbolt suggested another dangerous by NASA's most senior engineers. Not one but two spacecraft would travel to The first was a command and service module It would provide fuel, power, supplies and travelled to and from the moon. The second spacecraft, the lunar excursion It would be piloted by two astronauts whilst Because the lem only needed equipment and and light. The huge savings in weight meant this spacecraft Von Braun endorsed Houbolt's proposal, but To dock and undock the two spacecraft, NASA and execute them flawlessly... because if have no hope of rescue. NASA embarked on years of pioneering research The space flights of Project Mercury and Project Over 16 crewed missions in just five years, work and walk in space. But President Kennedy didn't live to see He was assassinated in 1963. Many years ago, the great British explorer was asked why did he want to climb it. He said 'because it is there'. Well space is there, and we're going to And the Moon and the planets are there. And new hopes for knowledge and peace are And therefore as we set sail, we ask God's and greatest adventure on which man has ever But before the Apollo Program launched its hour. "How are we going to get to the Moon if "They can't hear a thing you're saying." " Jesus Christ..." The Apollo 1 crew were sealed inside their of the launch countdown. The test had been halted by constant communications becoming frustrated. Grissom was one of America's most experienced astronaut group - the Mercury Seven - who capsules. His senior pilot was Ed White, the first American With them was rookie astronaut Roger Chaffee, missions during the Cuban Missile Crisis. Under enormous pressure to land an astronaut and its contractors had rushed the design Even after 5 years of development and testing, During ground tests, astronauts struggled in the environmental system, and short circuits filled the spacecraft. The crew were getting ready to resume the 'Hey!' 'We've got a fire in the cockpit!' 'Can you get them out of there?' 'Gus can you read us?' Within moments, flames ripped through the Precisely how the fire started was never determined: wiring, somewhere in the lower equipment bay. The atmosphere inside the command module was materials that were normally fire-resistant Within seconds, the spacecraft became an incinerator. The design of the spacecraft's heavy, multi-piece The inner hatch was fixed in place with 6 with a wrench. Even if the bolts could have been removed it was sealed shut by the high pressure inside The risks of spaceflight were well understood not die during a rocket launch or in orbit. They died on the ground, during a routine The tragedy of Apollo 1 left NASA's public If the Apollo Program was to survive, the After a series of uncrewed test flights, the Apollo 7. Learning from the failures that caused the spacecraft. The new 'Block II' model had fireproof cloth. At launch, the capsule was pressurised with And its new single-piece hatch could be opened The lunar module was still in the design phase, The Apollo 7 crew had been the Apollo 1 backups. Like Gus Grissom, mission commander Wally 7 astronaut corps. Their mission was to give the new Apollo spacecraft 5, 4, 3, 2, we have ignition. Commit, liftoff, we have liftoff! Schirra and his crew put the Apollo spacecraft They performed navigation exercises and practised booster as a target. Apollo 7 accomplished all it's objectives. The mission was a success. The Apollo program was back on track, and In April 1968, a CIA report suggested that around the Moon. To stop the Soviets beating America to another test of the lunar module in Earth orbit - would Moon. The furthest any human had travelled from Apollo 8's crew would travel 240,000 miles spacecraft failed. The mission commander was Frank Borman - an engineer. His Command Module Pilot was Jim Lovell, who the two men spent a record-breaking, and gruelling, Joining them was Bill Anders. His job would be to survey the Moon's surface Travelling to the moon required the largest Borman, Lovell and Anders would be the first We have commit, we have liftoff. At over 110m tall, it dwarfed all previous Its five enormous F1 engines burned through oxygen in just two and a half minutes, delivering pounds. The second and third stages carried the spacecraft It took the Apollo 8 crew three days to travel Like all Apollo missions, Apollo 8 was carefully Room, in Houston, Texas. Popularly known as Mission Control. Teams of flight controllers operated round-the-clock, every one of its on-board systems. All voice communications to the spacecraft 'capcom', a position always filled by The Flight Director had overall responsibility decision. When Apollo 8 reached the moon, the crew had and be captured by the Moon's gravity. If the engine didn't fire for precisely crash into the moon, or be hurled into deep It was impossible to communicate with the The staff at Mission Control waited nervously Borman, Lovell and Anders were the first humans But the most incredible thing they saw was On the third orbit, Anders captured one of Earthrise. The image was peaceful, but 1968 had been The nation was bitterly divided over the war for their civil rights. Martin Luther King was assassinated in April, But for NASA at least, the success of Apollo For the first time it seemed possible they land an astronaut on the moon before the end But the lunar module was still untested, and There would be no room for error. Say again please? Houston we've had a problem. The Apollo Program had been rocked by the Ed White and Roger Chaffee. But it had recovered with the brilliant success Command and Service Module. And in 1968, after seven years of intense astronauts 240,000 miles from home and into Apollo 8 flew within 69 miles of the Moon's But crossing that final gap would be the greatest It would require a completely new and untested The Lunar Module. In the wake of Apollo 8's daring journey attention. The mission wasn't even going to leave Earth But within the astronaut corps, the first as an even more exciting challenge. The mission's commander, Jim McDivitt, had the moon on Apollo 8, choosing Apollo 9 instead. Like many Apollo astronauts, he was a former a brand new flying machine. [Public Affairs Officer] 2, 1, 0, liftoff! We have liftoff at 11am Eastern Standard Time. Before the test flight of the Lunar Module maneuver to perform. The Lunar Module was folded inside the upper be extracted using the Command and Service [McDivitt] Roger Houston, we're at about [McDivitt] Alright Houston, we're hard docked. [Capcom] Good show. Leaving Command Module pilot Dave Scott to Rusty Schweickart climbed aboard and undocked. The Lunar Module was the first true spaceship Its insect-like body was designed without panel, bolt and button had to be as light off the moon's surface. McDivitt said that it looked 'like cellophane and staples.' He gave his craft the callsign 'Spider'. Unlike the command module, Spider did not it tried to re-enter Earth's atmosphere. So if the astronauts couldn't re-dock with they would have no way of returning home. But Spider's test flight went perfectly. McDivitt and Schweickart flew the Lunar Module They tested the ascent and descent engines The Lunar Module was ready to fly to the moon. NASA had successfully tested both the Command the moon. Many hoped the next mission would attempt But NASA needed more experience in communications orbit. Plus the challenges of rendezvous and docking And there was another critical unknown. In 1968, NASA scientists discovered that the This is caused by huge lumps of high-density or 'mascons', which could exert an uneven Before it was safe to attempt a landing, NASA by examining their effect on another Apollo Apollo 10 would be a dress rehearsal for the the mission except for the final descent to The Apollo 10 crew was Commander Tom Stafford, Module Pilot Gene Cernan. All three men were veterans of the Gemini they were the most experienced crew ever sent Stafford and Cernan flew the Lunar Module Their successful flight proved every phase Now, everything was in place. It was time to attempt the landing. Apollo 11 would be commanded by Neil Armstrong, Early in his NASA career, he'd flown the of 207,000 feet, at speeds of almost 4,000 When he joined the space program as part of of the few astronauts to be offered a command Gemini 8 achieved the first docking of two But the mission almost ended in disaster when capsule to spin wildly. Armstrong's calm and swift piloting brought the mission was cut short, he'd proved his pressure. Joining him as Lunar Module Pilot was Buzz A graduate of MIT, Aldrin wrote his doctoral rendezvous, and had an extraordinary understanding He'd proven his expertise on Gemini 12. When the spacecraft's rendezvous radar malfunctioned, himself, and guide the capsule to a successful The Command Module Pilot was Michael Collins. He would remain aboard the Command Module Moon. He had no regrets about his assignment, telling there, and that was fine with him. But years later, he would recount his greatest stranded on the surface, leaving him to travel 15th July, 1969. Almost a million people were gathering at fly to the Moon. But not everyone was there to celebrate. As launch preparations were made, around 150 their children, arrived at Cape Kennedy to They were led by the Reverend Ralph Abernathy, leader of the Southern Christian Leadership previous year. Their message was simple - it was inhuman the moon while one in five Americans lacked NASA Administrator Thomas Paine met with the He told Abernathy that 'if we could solve button to launch men to the moon tomorrow, Their terse meeting resolved nothing, but Abernathy that he would pray for the safe The following day, ten of the protestors were launch of Apollo 11. 10, 9, ignition sequence start, 6, 5, 4, 3, have a liftoff, 32 minutes past the hour, Four days later on the 20th July, Armstrong callsign 'Eagle'. They undocked and began their descent to the Armstrong - 'The Eagle has wings!' Years of hard work and training had led to The descent to the lunar surface would test Back on Earth, in Houston, Texas, the staff behind the moon for a final time. They monitored every system in both spacecraft, flight plan. And the success of the mission was about to officer, Steve Bales. It's a 1202 1202 cockpit. Eagle's guidance computer was trying to Its simple display showed the numbers '12 what this meant. 'Give us a reading on the 1202 program alarm' from calling an abort. He turned to Bales for answers. '12 02' meant the guidance computer was It had too many tasks to complete in its computing functioning. Without a working guidance computer, the astronauts But - the alarm wasn't sounding continuously. This meant that most computational cycles Bales decided that as long as the problem 'We're go on that, flight, if it doesn't But then another problem: the Lunar Module had overshot its intended landing site. Now, the computer was guiding them towards surrounded by a field of car-sized boulders. With the Lunar Module almost out of fuel, Mission control could only watch. The landing rested on Armstrong's piloting 60 seconds 4 forward, drifting to the right a little 30 seconds Tranquility Base here, the Eagle has landed Earth, Armstrong took his first steps on the 'That's one small step for man, one giant The precisely choreographed Moonwalk had taken For two hours and forty minutes, Armstrong experiments, and took photographs. The Apollo 11 crew returned home as heroes, explorers in history. Now that President Kennedy's goal had been to the moon? What was left for the Apollo Program to achieve? The new mission would be science. The Moon's origins remained a mystery. Where did it come from? Could its scarred surface tell the story of understand the origins of our own world? But although NASA now possessed the knowledge soon receive a powerful reminder of the dangers 'Houston we've had a problem' been accomplished, interest in space exploration NASA's budget was slashed. There would only be resources for six more But in its final chapter, The Apollo Program and face the deadliest perils of spaceflight. 'I'm not sure we didn't get hit by lightning.' 'This is Houston, say again please?' 'Houston, we've had a problem.' The flight was extremely normal for the first - Pete Conrad, Apollo 12 Mission Commander missed its intended landing site. NASA's plans for lunar exploration relied points of scientific interest. It would be up to Apollo 12 to attempt a pinpoint Apollo 12 would aim to land next to the Surveyor 1967. If NASA could hit this precise target, they'd Apollo 12's crew was Mission Commander Pete and Lunar Module Pilot Alan Bean. They were a tight-knit crew, who drove matching Conrad and Gordon had already flown together at the United States Naval Test Pilot School But their mission almost didn't make it As the countdown reached zero, huge thunderclouds The colossal Saturn V rocket and its exhaust rod. Two lightning strikes shut down the service command module's guidance system. But nobody had seen the strikes, all they 'I got three fuel cell lights, an AC Bus 1 and 2, Main Bus A and B out.' In Mission Control, flight director Gerry But a young flight controller named John Aaron come up with a solution. With no time to explain, he relayed an obscure CAPCOM: 'Apollo 12, Houston, try SCE to Conrad: 'NCE to Auxiliary?' CAPCOM: 'SCE. SCE to Auxiliary' flight director or Conrad had any idea what But in the Lunar Module Pilot's seat, Alan He switched to a set of backup electronics the mission was back on track. 'I'm not sure we didn't get hit by lightning.' The problem had been diagnosed and fixed within training of the astronauts and mission control The crew of Apollo 12 continued their journey Comin down at two, Pete, you've got plenty He's got it made! Contact light! When Pete Conrad stepped foot on the lunar gravitas, but he more than made up for it 'Whoopee! Man that may have been a small one for Neil, I'm going to step off the pad... Ooh is that soft and queasy... As he looked around the landing site, he saw 'Guess what I see sitting on the side of 'The old surveyor, right?' 'The old surveyor, yes sir.' 'It can't be any further than 600 feet How about that.' Apollo 12 had made its pinpoint landing next It was located in Oceanus Procellarum. Also known as the Ocean of Storms. Now, NASA had sent astronauts to the Moon But if lunar flight was starting to look routine, reminder of the dangers of spaceflight. NASA will claim that they are absolutely not But I'll be you my last dollar, they'll - Jim Lovell, Apollo 13 Mission Commander in the Apollo program. Previous missions had largely been test flights Apollo 13 would focus on scientific discovery. It would land at the Fra Mauro highlands, into the origins of the solar system. Adapting a motto from the US Naval Academy, Luna, Scientia' - from the Moon, knowledge. But before the crew of Apollo 13 reached the for their lives. The Mission Commander was veteran astronaut spent more time in space than any other astronaut. Between his Gemini 7 flight with Frank Borman, his trip around the Moon on Apollo 8, he'd seven million miles. He was joined by two rookie astronauts - Lunar Pilot Ken Mattingly. But just two days before launch, Ken Mattingly Measles, and replaced by another astronaut, Swigert was considered an excellent pilot, blow for a crew that had trained so intensely 2 days, 7 hours, 46 minutes elapsed mission This is the crew of Apollo 13 wishing everybody ready to close out our inspection of Aquarius The Apollo 13 crew had just completed a live But it went no further than mission control. With public interest in the Apollo Program show. As the astronauts packed away their camera to take care of. "13, we've got one more item for you when up your cryo tanks." The command and service module was powered by mixing hydrogen and oxygen. The oxygen was stored as a very cold liquid In zero gravity, the temperature and density areas of the tank, which made it difficult The solution was to stir the liquid oxygen During a ground test just a few weeks earlier, accidentally left on, and its interior was This damaged the teflon insulation around When Jack Swigert turned that fan on, electrical fire. The pressure of expanding gas turned the oxygen 'Okay, Houston, we've had a problem here.' 'We've got more than a problem' 'Houston we've had a problem.' As the staff at mission control frantically spacecraft, Lovell glanced out the side window 'It looks to me that we are venting something. It's a gas of some sort.' Their second oxygen tank had also been damaged into space. Soon there would be nothing left for the astronauts There was one chance for survival. Apollo 13's lunar module, Aquarius, had be used to put them on a course back to Earth. The astronauts had no choice but to use it The crew shut down the Command Module to preserve into Earth's atmosphere, and all three of Conditions were cramped and bitterly cold. NASA staff worked around the clock to solve that put the astronauts' lives in constant One of the most serious problems they faced by their own exhaled carbon dioxide. The Lunar Module used round canisters of lithium air, but there were only enough of these canisters The command module used a similar system, Fortunately, to provide an emergency backup, for Apollo 8 to build an air purifier using in the spacecraft. The makeshift device was made of cardboard, perfectly, and removed the poisonous carbon Having survived the flight back to Earth, atmosphere. They climbed back into the Command Module survive re-entry. LM Jettison The Command Module had been powered down and Its heat shield might have been cracked when might have frozen solid. The astronauts were expected to be out of re-entry. But four minutes passed, then five, with no But after six agonising minutes... Odyssey re-appeared. The astronauts had survived. Apollo 13 failed to land on the Moon. But against all the odds, and through incredible Lovell, Haise and Swigert home safely. The mission became known as the 'successful Apollo 14 would see the unlikely return of Alan Shepard. Launching aboard a tiny one-person capsule, in May 1961. 'Oxygen is go, all systems are go!' He was due to command the first mission of bouts of extreme dizziness and nausea. He was diagnosed with Meniere's disease, There was no known cure, and it seemed he Shepard was appointed Chief of the Astronaut planning. Outside of NASA, he also made a small fortune drilling. But he was determined to fly in space again. In the summer of 1968, he underwent an experimental disorder. Now, Shepard would return as the commander But Shepard's struggles continued. The mission was almost overcome by glitches After launch, the docking mechanism between engage. Before Lunar descent, the computer tried to mid-flight. Finally, the landing radar stopped working But Shepard had come too far to be stopped With the support of mission control, he and a perfect landing, the closest yet to their Over the course of two Moon walks, Shepard further from their lunar module than any previous They climbed steep terrain, investigated ancient than Apollo 11 or 12. With his mission objectives completed, Shepard in the pockets of his spacesuit. Using his sampling tool as a club, he teed 'Miles and miles and miles' the universe around him and calls the adventure - Edwin Hubble The final three missions were the most scientifically hardware. Their upgraded lunar module had enough supplies New space suits and backpacks enabled Moonwalks And the new lunar rover allowed astronauts surface. Meanwhile, the command module pilot conducted using a new suite of cameras and scientific Dave Scott, on his third spaceflight, was The crew made one of the biggest geological a chunk of anorthosite, a piece of the Moon's Apollo 16 was commanded by John Young, who The Lunar Module Pilot was Charlie Duke, and who had lost his place on Apollo 13 just days his chance to fly in space. Young and Duke spent three days on the lunar aid of the lunar rover. But now, budget cutbacks had brought the Apollo Apollo 17 would be its final flight. On December the 7th, 1972, Apollo 17 prepared It was the only night launch of a Saturn V. the sky at Cape Kennedy. The final mission was commanded by Gene Cernan. His command module pilot was Ron Evans, and On this final mission, Schmitt represented A professional geologist, he was the only Apollo 17 landed at Taurus-Littrow, the most Cernan and Schmitt spent a total of 22 hours They travelled 19 miles across its surface. And they collected more scientific data than But after three days on the Moon, it was time Cernan and Schmitt would be the last humans But as the Apollo program came to an end, flight. The first US space station - Skylab - would rocket. In 1975, the United States and the Soviet Test Project. It was the final flight of an Apollo spacecraft, 1981 would see the first flight of the Space The mission was commanded by Apollo astronaut of spaceflight. But for the Apollo Program, 1972 was the end As Cernan climbed into the lunar module at the Moon, and shared his hope that humans 'As we leave the Moon at Taurus-Littrow, we shall return, with peace and hope for all As of June 2021, Gene Cernan remains the last But NASA intends to return with the Artemis The goal is to land the first woman the the technologies for the first crewed missions Thank you to our Patreon supporters for making Visit our Patreon page to find out how you access, and help to choose future topics. You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram and regular updates.