lt's about three kilometers from here I still have time Will he come? I hope he will come Come up lt's Tai chi Don't move. Waiting for him to come Come out Why are you the only one The others are waiting up there go Mr. Tie There's an ambush up there, so we can't chase Trust me Hurry up How relaxed and fun! Screw you. What a blast! I need a lighter. I don't have any. You idiots. Come look it up! What is this? Come on! What is going on here? What is going on here? The stick says your wishes will come true. Competition. Save one anti- Japanese soldier with one win. ls it a trick about what they say? These assholes. I bet they are up to something. They have five captured Chinese soldiers. Five rounds. lf you win one, we will release one Autographed by Captain Tohihara. Zhao Autographed by Captain Tohihara. Are they going to keep their words? What, they will stand a slap in their faces in front of all these people? Where is this competition? The Temple of Goddess. They will hold the So, do you think these anti- Japanese warriors will attend? Of course they will. guarantee you they will as they find out about it. I guarantee you they will as they find out about it Well, that is a show then. They won't stand there and watch these captivated Chinese soldiers to be killed. But what if, this competition might be a ruse. What if these Japanese set them up? lt makes sense. Those Japanese might intend to capture them Those Japanese might intend to capture them by planning this competition. You are right. These Japanese? These turds? lt is too early to tell who is going to win. Well, l heard lots of skillful Japanese soldiers are I am afraid this competition is a ruse. I am afraid these warriors are determined to go and no one can talk them down. Not necessary. Those captivated soldiers are all patriotic, and they are not afraid of death. I don'tthink they want these warriors to sacrifice just to save them. Tycoon, this way. Be quick, lt's about to begin You didn't let us come here, but you came. Did Wu Jiao really not come here? How's that possible? It was obvious that they came to save people from they even didn't disguise You are in one of them Ml see if you dare come out As long as you show up Even if you are good at Lightness Skill Don't try to escape the sight of my two snipers At that time Tycoon, we are ready. Shall we begin? okay fight against the Japs and avenge the Chinese He Now let me introduce the rules of competition I repeat again The Japanese army will never break its promise f- chir ese win a matcl If chinese win a match, we will let go of one Chinese soldier We will let go of Chinese soldiers as many as you win. We will kill Chinese soldiers as many as you lose. The Japanese army also said we can't kill one by one and we can't let go of one by one. We have to count until 5 competition ends Let me see where you are lf you win, we have to let off you all together you have to run away with those Chinese who win. Those Chinese who win have to keep the rules lf someone break the rules, we will shoot them. Am Iclear? Stop nagging, Be quick that's right. Let's start. Here's the last rule as well as the most important one Each one can only fights once no matter you win or lose, you can only fight once. no matter you win or lose, you can only fight once. all right, now I declare the martial arts competition Let the Japanese samurai come to the stage. lt's time for Chinese to come to stage Who wants to fight first? Who wahts to fight first me I would fight first Don't worry You can't go to stage, it's dangerous You are risking your life No worry Girl, don't go there. Girl, you shouldn't go there, come back. He is Embroidery Needle. Our big hero Liao Tiansheng Bravo, Embroidery Needle He is Embroidery Needle. Bravo, Embroidery Needle, Bravo Bravo, Embroidery Needle, Bravo See how I deal with these Japs Oh, this Jap looks handsome You are waiting to get killed I am afraid you have to wait 100 years and still why do you stared at me like a dummy. You want to fight or not? If you don't want to fight, please get off and Let's dispense with formalities When we finish the fight, it's not late for you Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, amazing kungfu The jap kungfu is ok but his feet stinks Good fightl Good fight! You want to kill me? Not a chance. Good fight! Good fight! Good fight! Why are you so dirty? Oh Iremember now l remember Ijust stepped on the dog shit and forgot to wipe it Nice kick! Bravo! continue to fight him. Bravo! continue to fight him. Kill him! Good fightl He is always frivolous. Watch out! Hero Oh my god Go to hell Bravo! Nicel Nice kungfu Good fightl Good fight! Go home and heal You ungrateful animal Bravo! Embroidery Needle! Good fight! Kill the Japs Kill him! I declares the Chinese wins Good fightl Good fightl Embroidery Needle won! Embroidery Needle good fightl Embroidery Needle good fight! Let's welcome the winner to take a seat Bravo, Embroidery Needle Bravo! Bravo! Bravo, Embroidery Needle This is the way how japs left the four heroes. We have lots of snipers Don't be afraid, Captain. ldiot The one you counted on has already died. You won't get the chance shoot Be quiet The second match will begin immediately. Who's the next to fight? Who? Who is he? Me Bro, is he Iron Head Master? Master, are you ghost? He must be a ghost since he refuse to speak Ghosts are named by Japs He is God's messenger and was sent to kill Japs. Rightl Bravo! Rightl Bravol Right! Bravo! What's your name? Are you physco? Are you physco? The one who does not speak is God's Iron Man Fine, the second fight begins Here you go Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! Trash l declare Chinese wins the second match God's messager won. He is awesomel He is surrounded by masters lf I miss one shot it's hard to get close to him. Besides, Japs' machine gunners and snipers are definitely covering him. What should I do now? What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? She is gone Who is the third one to fight? Qian lt's a girl Stop Stop Though you want revenge, don't have to be rush I'II wait for you after the martial art competition I hope you won't regret As long as you are in my way I will definitely kill you Get down there and keep fighting Why didn't you order to shot her Captain, please calm down There are still two of them who have not shown up When they're all on stage We can take them all down The third tournament The third tournament begins The Chinese who came state your last names Aren't you a Chinese. Then which nest are you from Yeah, I know where you're from Swordswoman tell them your name Scare them to death Song Wujiao No, you are swordswoman Song Wujiao lt's good to call her heroine. The Japanese hear your AII right, all right Song Wujiao Come on See if your are made of iron Good fight. Good. Good fight. Well done, heroine. Well done, heroine Stop make any noise? Scene 3, Chinese win Well played heroine. Well played heroine There are two more races coming up Didn't Itell you not to come No one can stop me if I want to be here I'm not trying to stop you You don't see how this is going They're trying to kill us lf you don t believe me You see whether they ll let us go when the race is over You can go now Please state your name Du Dapeng He is Du Dapeng, the lron headed man lron Head Man Du Dapeng, lron Head man Du Dapeng Yes, please. AII right. All right. Maybe we won too easy Maybe we won too easy That's because the little Japanese are too weak Well, then they are just too weak Bian Now that we are here, don't think so much Get down there Japanese Get down there, Japanese You're no match for him And then he'll crack your bones Don't play with him, lron Head No need to be merciful with the Japanese Ban That's a good, lron Head The fourth game, Chinese win Good, Chinese win Good to win again Shanmu, You are not making a fool of yourself! Only in this way can we keep them We still have our ace in the hole Takashima masa Yes Find a samurai to replace Takeo Watanabe Why? This is our last fight Go Yes Watanabe you don't need to fight this time and retreat lt's time for the last fight Anyone else dare to come up here ls that OK? lsn't he the fortune- teller Commander Wang You didn't say you were going up, too l He wants to be with them l This is the man who killed our snippers with a gun's bolt Heroes When you hear the sound of a gun l need you to leave then l need you to leave then What about those Chinese soldiers if we leave lt's right to listen to him, and the little Ping Ping He is testing the strength of the Japanese There's nothing to test That's what makes him different from us This is a man who is good at thinking Such a good thinker Why would they go into my trap Maybe he's got a way out No, no way This is not a trap This is a big hole Good. The warrior wins. The warrior wins. The Japanese are so evil that they poisoned them all To get you together That's not easy But you did it anyway Maybe you have stopped them But they are someone who are afraid of death You should have expected that So here I am, too Do you think you guys are gonna get out of here alive Then give it a try You still want to try You still want to try I might be able to rip your head off My machine gun and the attacker They won't let you do that Do you really think there are machine guns and Commander Wang Warrior Wang. Warrior Wang. Warrior Wang That's great, Warrior Wang That's your ammo and weapons arsenal Our team needs ammunition and weapons Thank you very much for deploying the troops here The scum of Japanese women You're the next one; You should know Even if we all die in battle You're not getting out of here either You're not getting out of here either Killing one counts as one, killing two earns one Anyway, l have to kill ten or eight Japanese Anyway, l have to kill ten or eight Japanese Come on, how can ten or eight enough You must kill dozens of them My needle is like a machine gun One shot will kill a lot of people You know their strength and courage But let me remind you one more time If I raise my hand one more time I guarantee you'll be the first to die And your captain leader, As for the two machine guns How huge lethality it has at this close range you must be clear Then what do you want? Retreat your troops immediately. I won't kill you, you have my words. Of course, you can stay if you wanna die. You can take on us. You can take on us. Retreat! Now! lt is a direct order from the Captain. Retreatl Battalion Commander Wang is really predictable. No wonder our Commander called him&quot;The God Summonc Taikun You are still lingering. If you are not leaving, then the war is on. Well, we'll see. If that is what you want, we will play along. Mr. Wang, I am so sorry. Heroes are all brave. Don't blame yourself. You are the only reason we are still alive at- this- very moment. It's a shame we didn't save these Chinese soldiers. Don't dwell on it. One day, we will make them pay. Great. Mr. Wang, these Chinese soldiers were anti- Japanese heroes. Ithink we should bury them decently. They deserve a place where is safe and sound. l agree. Wujiao. Wujiao Are you looking for that female warrior? Yes. Do you have eyes on her? I saw her left just now. When? When those Japanese drove away. Wasn't it chaotic back then? Mr. Wang, Ineed to go and find her. She must follow them and try to kill Dohihara. Then I will come with you. Okay. What about these Chinese soldiers? If you two would be so kind, If you two would be so kind, would you please bury them decently? I need to find Miss. Song with Mr Liao. AlI right. AlI right. Takashima. Let's go. Miss. Song Wujiao. Song, that's a close call He is right If you insist, it will cost you eventually. Mind your own business. Miss Song. You can't take your revenge over one night. lt needs a thorough plan. lf you want, Bing Xing I am honored to give you a hand Thanks, but I don't need it Wujiao. Mr. Liao, She needs more time to get it through. Well done. Taikun. I've been stalking her for quite a time. I know. You will be awarded. Taikun, it is the yard in front of you. She is very very beautiful. Pretty girl Pretty girl. Wonderful! Taikun, we will just wait you right here. Enjoy yourselves in there. Why don't you come with us? We all live in this neighborhood. lt will if someone finds about. Okay, I understand. Then you just wait for me here. I will award you generously when I finish. Pretty girl. My pretty girl. Pretty girl. Pretty girl. Pretty girl. Are you looking for me? Yes. Yes. Better shut the door. Don't want to be Hurry! Shut the door! You guys, wait at the door. Yes, sir. My pretty girl. My pretty girl. When it's our turn? Who wants to come in first? Me, me, mel Pretty girl. You can come in, too. Okay. Don't cry, don't cry Don't cry, don't cry. Don'tcry, don&quot;t cry. Donlt cry, don't cry lt is all right now. Leave this place as soon as your husband come home tonight. Thank you for saving my life! Excuse me. Don't cry. These Japanese ask us to find them girls all the time. l am afraid things would go sideway in the future. I agree. The common people will be furious at us when they find out, not to mention the Eighth Route Army. Don't forget those warriors. If they know this and look for us, they will kill us. Where is this bagger coming from? Someone was dead! How did you get in there? Someone was dead! Someone was dead! What is going on? Someone was dead! Who did this? l did. Keep your breathe is to let you know there will be no good ending if you work for the Make way. Make wayl Hurry! He is not one of the Eighth Route Army! Please Move! Run! - Let him go! I will die as an anti- Japanese hero! Just go! Leave here, you fool. Don't you see the Japanese are murdering people? Why don't you move? Are you a fool? Are you waiting to be killed? Just leave here! Kill him. What a show, what a show! You, kill that Japanese. You can defend my attack. You are good. Retreat! Xiao Tong, go Be quick Stop the car Stop the car What's wrong? No, there is something wrong, with Wang Mufeng's skills He is all already in the base camp How can he not break into the room? it be that the Wing Commander said it for letting us to reinfc Exaggerated the state of affairs? Our troops simply cannot surround them Return to the oil depot Shoot Commander Wang You will use the grenade to blow up the Japanese Yes Go Go Watch out Blow it up Yes Get down Blow it up No grenades Take cover Lao Chen Rush, rGoh, rush Shoot Mortar, ready Xiao Tong, be quick Yes Go Come on and hold up lt was Wang Mufeng who forced you to call? I have my own arrangements How dare you. rubbish If the oil depot is lost, then none of us will be keep alive Go Wang Mufeng Be quick The line, dodge, Be careful Xiao Tong, go Theiheroofrembtoideryyneedles? I'll kill you Japanese just like that Give me the line, Xiao Tong Wujiao, Wujiao, Wujiao Dodge Ydurokay? Be quick All die Xiao Tong, be quick Give me the wire Here it's Go Go Xiao Tong, connect the wire Yes Dapeng Dapeng, get up Tiezhu Good brothers Let's go, go Go Go Big brother You Japanese Big brother Big brother Big brother, big brother, big brother Xiao Tong, be quick Tiezhu Run No No Run Tiezhu Our grudge can end today Tanks are coming Commander Wang, come out quickly Tanks are coming Commander Wang, come out quickly Commander Wang, Be qtiick toileave, Mufeng IBlow itp Mufeng Blow it, Wujiao Wujiao, no Wujiao, Tiansheng, in my next life, I will definitely marry you Be your duteous and pure bride Wujiao, Wujiao, Wujiao, then we promise to each other After completing this task, we will get married AnPulbthelhooktogether withveach otherge EiSorrybr