DONUTS Collins: (screams) - Oh my gosh! - It's Play-Doh, bro! You're telling us to turn so right now, let's go. I gotta wash my mouth out, my gosh! This round we are going to Let's start with the lettuce. - The what? Oh the lettuce. - Called a wham bam. This is how you make some good quality organic free range lettuce. - Where'd you get this bowl? - I got it from my restaurant. - What? - I own a restaurant now. Oh, oh oh! Got this thingy here, which you put in the middle (screams) - You okay? Oh, you didn't see this on your own tool? - Yeah. - I thought you owned your own restaurant. - Yeah, but I wasn't fully trained. Then we got a, ooh straight cutter. Whoop! - Are you qualified to be - Maybe not! - All right, my patty is done. Next up I'm gonna go for some cheese. - Some cheese? - Some cheese right on that burger. - [Collins] Now I'm just in a very squiggly manner. - They look like green bacon strips. - Slice (thuds) - No, whoa, whoa! Then I want your bacon. - No! (babbles) - I'll give your bacon back - No. (buzzer sounds) Next up we're going to Going to use my little stamping machine. Check this out from the On a legitimate level, - Well if a two year old I think you should be able to. (buzzer sounds) - And for my tomato, like you know how tomatoes Yep, definitely not the right tool. Yo, yours is actually looking pretty good. - Aw thanks man. - Squeeze, squeeze. - Look at that cheese, look at the cheese. - I want this whole - No, my burger! (slow motion yelling) C'mon. - Here we go, so now we got my tomato. Well, it's a lot smaller (whooping noises) - To me it kinda looks like a I don't think it'll spin. Now it's time for the lettuce. Come back. - Wait, are you making lettuce again? - I need to have a super - That's completely - Now the burger part of it is the most expensive part of my-- So for this we really gotta make sure that we don't give them too much so you're not losing money as a business. So it's gonna, there we But we'll disguise it with a massive tomato outline around it so they won't even know it. Brilliant. What can this orange be used for? My burger comes with a - Wow. - All right so now we've gotta There we go. Yeah, I've run out of bread so I'm left with no other choice but to make the top of my burger the actual hamburger patty part of it. So here we go, we got the perfectly round and symmetrical burger. Place it on top of the orange. Actually, game changer. Coat the orange in the burger. - That way nobody sees it. It's a burst of flavor. - Bite into like an orange rind, like (chomps) - [Devan] How is your - And then of course to end it off. (dings) So now I guess it's just gonna be boring and I gotta sit back and That looks so good, that is not fair. All right, here's the big - Three, two, one. - First-- Five Second Subscribe Challenge. We want to see if you can and turn on the channel post notifications in five seconds, are you ready? - Five, four, three, two, one, done! Now if you can do that, - Comment down below. - Keyper squad right now. - Three, two, one, tada! - I am not happy with how this turned out. So I'm gonna change it a little bit. - What? - I need to grab this roller over here. And uh, see if it works. Yo, it's perfect burger! - What? No, how did you do that? - Magic. - What? - The best thing is, it even talks. Check this out. Hey, I'm Bruce the burger. - The burger's pretty awesome Bruce is not actually talking, bro. - [Burger] Oh my god, - I am not just a stupid burger! (both shouting) - All right, well that's round, let's go. (trills) - For this-- - No, not again, really? - Oh man, we are making a pizza. I was trying to balance I'm gonna make this into some dough. First we gotta actually spin it around because we gotta get the So just gonna... No wow, all right. - For this I actually have a pizza roller and I'm going to be making some - Some long bread? Do we have another roller by any chance? - You can have it on loan. - Wow, that's a really thin crust. It's more like paper crust. - That's how you know it's thin, Devan. When it's thin enough to write - What? - [Collins] Declaration Got the tomato sauce. - Ooh. - Guys ready for this? It's called the slap pat. You go slap and then pat! - What? Luckily I got another one! - Mine is gonna be a deep dish. I just have no clue on how to do it yet. - All my ingredients are super fresh. I got a special tool right here. And this turns into the Check it out! Bam, there we go! Fresh tomato! - You can't use that, - But it's my magical tool, Now, I'm gonna crush (record scratching) - Whoa whoa whoa bro, you can't do that! It's a real tomato! - Okay fine, so I guess we'll one more time, here we There we go, now we got a little tomato. - How do you do that? I'm pretty sure this is - Now we go! - No! - [Collins] Whoohoo! - [Devan] That was such - Well now I gotta that You don't understand the It's all about the element-- - [Both] Of surprise! - [Collins] You totally didn't - Should've guessed. - Two more tomatoes for the rest of the tomato sauce. Boom boom boom boom! You're gonna do a little and... (rolling) Oh, strike one. (rolling) Oh, strike two. Last one, here we go. (smacking) Oh! - Now you messin' with my play-doh. - That was a gutter ball. - That's a no-no. Can I use one of your tools, Collins? - Sharing is caring, Devan, all yours - Thank you. All right, gonna cut a big circle. - Nice, great job, Devan. Crushin' the game. He's not. - What? - I mean, look at my tomato sauce! I have this-- Ow! - Sorry man, I'm making - Okay, now it's time to add which is of course, the cheese. And you guys, this is a fancy restaurant, and so we do what's called little cheese. - Yours looks like a continent, bro. - [Collins] Kinda like Africa, actually. - I'm just gonna sprinkle a - All right, next up I and speaking of rollers, where - I don't know. - Okay. - Last bit of cheese and you ready, a pineapple! (buzzer rings) What? - Well, looks like you got for putting pineapple on your pizza. That's a massive no-no. - Oh my gosh, really? - So we're movin' on to the next round. - This round we are making - Ooh! - So I'm gonna make a with a ton of scoops, so yay! - Okay, whoa, all right. - Whoo-hoo, and yeet! - Ow! - I call this the two hand Palm to palm to palm to palm. - Bro, I'm gonna make a swirl with mine. Ooh! - Yeah, well done. - [Devan] That looks awesome! - Next ball let's go! Boom, there we go color number two, we gotta of course get some vanilla, yeet! - You've been hitting me this whole time. Yeet! Hey! - You got me! - Yeet! - In the back in the head. I'll get you soon. All right, my first one is That actually looks pretty cool. I don't know what kind - [Collin] What kind of - Lemon? - Yeah, maybe. Tumeric? - Tumeric? Ginger! - Ginger ice cream, you know, - To give you a little bit of spice. When you're eating your ice cream. New game, it's called &quot;Get the Play-Doh balls Here we go! (both cheer) - First try! (both cheer) (excited babbling) - What? Don't mess it up! - So close. - So not even close! - Ice cream scoop-a-doop number one, - Scoop-a-doop! - Scoop-a-doop number two, oh that's coming along nicely. Scoop-a-doop number three, four! Boom, and-- (both groan) Locking mine in right now, I added some extra flavor to it. - And I am just about to add the chocolate dribbles to mine. (exclaims) There it is, there it is. - Looks like a squid! - Or chocolate dribbles. - Yeah, or chocolate dribbles. - That's not even looking too bad, yeah! Maybe take that one off. - You even have a whipped cream dispenser? - Oh yeah, I do. Alright here we go, - [Collins] That actually that's crazy! - Dude this looks so good! Oh no, oh no, oh no. (both exclaim) - Done! (stammering) And locked it in! - Here we go with the - Three, two, one-- Tada! - So you get to comment down below. - Dude you're cheating! That's not play-doh! - That's totally play-doh! - It's really cold. - It's just cold play-doh. - And it tastes exactly like ice cream. - So guys leave a comment down below, who won this round, and we are on to the next one. - I could have sworn (both screaming) I guess this round we've got pop-tarts! (screaming) - That makes sense! - Let's make some pop-tarts! Oh my gosh! - Alright I'm starting Hey it didn't hit me this time. - Check this out, yeet! (both exclaim) Time to roll it out my dude! Alright I gotta make sure because I have a super duper special idea that I'm gonna be doing with it. - Wow, dude, you even have - Here we go, we got the pink first, oh, this is kind of cool, this is like a little Sorry. - You almost messed it up. - My bad! So I've got my first layer, it's called the &quot;roll in a circle with - Alright, I'm kind of - Well, I-- It always happens! Next ingredient, I call this one the plum! - What kind of plum is flat? - Oh this is gonna be great. Now for my master strategy to work I just gotta fold it over. (gasps) I think it's gonna work. Alright here we go, I got - Hey, that's my dicer! - Slice! And then I'm gonna give Dice! In my mind I thought this would look a lot cooler than it's currently looking. Well now we gotta seal up the edges, pinch it together like this. Looks more like a hot - That's like the chunky (laughs) - Oh, no you didn't. This is my final save right Frosted! Finishing touches, gonna Ooh, that's a nice sprinkle. Ooh, that's a very nice sprinkle. Boom, my best sprinkle yet! This is what they call, in show business, or I think in just about any business. - In play-doh business. - Make it or br-- - Sorry. - Make it or break it moment! Here it is, slice down the middle! Oh, that does not look promising! This looks real bad! Before I fully reveal it, I'm locking it in right now. You guys are gonna have Wow! Here we go with the big But first, 3 second like challenge. We want to see if you can like this video in three seconds, are you ready? - Three, two, one, done! Ta-da! - Why didn't you work? (screams) - What are you doing with my best friend? (all scream) - This round we are making some pasta. So right now, let's make some noodles! Yeet! And then we go woo, and then we go yeet! - How do those all hit me? Why do you get to go first? - Because I'm the older brother. Devan, I am the older it's against my-- - I made it! (grunts) Look at that! Okay, well-- Oop. Oh yeah, look at those nice noodles man. - Well, I just have one long noodle. Just gonna make one And just a little bit of spaghetti sauce, just to like coat the top of the noodle. It almost looks like a snake of some sort. Boom, spaghetti, yeti. Three, two, one! Boom! Oop, where'd it go? Got it! Here we go, I'm making meat stars. - Oh, snap! Cool. - Time to shred my meatballs! Why is it yellow, that's not good. It's still yellow! This is the finishing touch If this meatball lands in the dish, you get it in your order. - What happens if it doesn't? - You don't get a meatball. I'm gonna close my eyes Three, two, one. (swoosh) Has it landed yet? - Yep! It totally landed. - Where did it go? - I think you made it disappear man. Your magical powers are failing. - What? No way, because if I I can get it back. (claps) Oh my gosh, where did that come from? Goodness! Done! A masterpiece. - But it didn't technically - What it did, it was like a meteorite, and it was like magic, and now it's there. - Uh, okay. - Locking it in. Devan's taking forever, but remember guys, at the end of this we'll be and I've heard there's and delicious inside of it so, we can't eat any of the play-doh food, but hopefully we'll be able to eat whatever is inside of the mystery box and hopefully it won't - Alright, it is finally - Three, two, one, ta-da! - So, yeah, you get to comment down below, who do you think won this round and made the better whatever. Remember, mine's creative, you've never seen a So, right now we're on to the next round. - Check this out! - Dude! - They smell so good! - They're like tiny - What is this? Oh, I thought it was a mustache at first. (old-fashioned music) - Hey, it's a pineapple! - It's a pineapple! - Do not put this on a - I won't. Bro, this one even has a bruised bit! - Man, the attention to detail on these. - So I guess you just wanna try them? - Uh, yeah! - Comment down below what other foods should we make out of play-doh. I guess we should try - I'm gonna go for the - Alright, here we go, ready? - Three, two, one. (moans) - The texture! It's like cookie dough! But like way sweeter - Oh my god. - Wow. - Yo, this one looks like a tomato! - I'm going for the strawberry, dude. - And the craziest thing is the texture kinda reminds me of play-doh. We weren't able to eat any - Oh, you're right. - That's why it's in the mystery box. Alright, let's take a bite, you ready? - Three, two, one. (moaning) - What? (mumbles) - It's plastic? - Why would you eat the plastic? - I'm gonna take a bite of this one. - Flamingo is the best one! - Alright subscribe right (mumbles) - Five, four, three, two, one! Done! - Thank you for watching, - Bye!