This incredible story happened at the Edo Wildlife Sanctuary in South Africa. A baby elephant started his day as usual. The herd roamed under the warm sun, grazing and searching for food. Eventually they stopped at a natural waterhole to drink and refresh themselves. The youngest member of the herd was particularly looking forward to the moment. Splashing in the water was the highlight of his day as it helped him cool down after hours in the hot sun. As usual, the baby elephant started playing happily in the water, but suddenly everything got out of control. As he wallowed in the muddy pool, he became stuck in the slippery banks of the waterhole and could not get out. The little elephant panicked and fought desperately to free himself. But the more he struggled, the deeper he slipped into the mud. The rest of the herd didn't notice the young elephant's drama until it was time to move on. As they formed up to leave, they realized something was wrong. As is typical of their species, the herd gathered around the baby elephant in distress. Some members tried to free him. But all their efforts were unsuccessful. The calf didn't sink any deeper, but it didn't get any further either. The few elephants who helped realized that they could not free the cub alone. So they called the rest of the herd to help. Together they tried to free the animal, but it seemed hopeless. Their efforts continued for hours and the situation worsened. The elephants screamed desperately for help. In the distance, some visitors to the nature reserve actually heard the cries of elephants. But they initially did not recognize the seriousness of the situation. The situation became even more explosive when the still fighting herd heard a noise in the distance. This sound seemed to be getting closer and closer, causing the elephants to panic. Suddenly a jeep appeared on the horizon and sped towards the scene. But were the inmates friends or enemies? The herd didn't have time to figure this out and protectively surrounded the cub to protect it from possible danger. The men in the jeep drove around the elephants, trying to disperse the herd to find out what was going on. But the animals stood firm and refused to take a step back. They were determined to do everything in their power to protect one of their most precious members. Now the little elephant faced two opponents: the muddy ground and the men in the threatening-looking jeep. A silent battle broke out between the elephants and the jeep occupants. It was clear that neither party would give up so easily. Over the next few hours, the younger members of the herd fled, putting their own safety above that of the baby. This forced the adult elephants to make a difficult decision. . The baby was still hopelessly trapped and had no energy left. However, the Jeep still had enough gas and the driver was determined to break up the herd to see what they were hiding. Forced to make a decision, the older elephants chose to leave the baby behind and keep most of the herd together. The men in the jeep emerged as winners. In the eyes of the poor baby elephant, her intentions didn't matter. He was alone and had to fend for himself. The baby elephant became angry and tried desperately to get out of his predicament , but to no avail. However, the good news was that the men in the jeep were neither poachers nor tourists, and they had no intention of harming the baby elephant. They were rangers from the nature reserve who had heard the animals' cries for help. Her goal was to help. Unfortunately, the only way they could act was to get the herd to give up their baby. The rangers immediately took action. They tried several strategies, but none of them were successful. Then, just as they were about to give up, the baby elephant miraculously began to break free. The men had managed to push aside some of the slippery mud , creating a small path for the elephant. After hours of struggle, he was finally able to free himself. Everyone was overjoyed, the rescue operation was a success. But then it dawned on everyone involved. There was still a problem to solve. Where was the herd? The rangers knew they couldn't leave the baby alone while they searched for the herd. The safest option was to tie the elephant down while searching for its family. They had to find the herd and couldn't risk the baby running away on its own or even attacking one of them. As you can probably imagine, the baby elephant was less than happy about being tied up. It struggled and tried with all its remaining strength to break free of its bonds, but it wasn't strong enough. His fate now lay in the hands of the rangers, even if he didn't yet trust them. However, realizing there was nothing he could do, he finally calmed down. The next big step for the rangers in reunification was to gain the trust of the baby elephant. After struggling in the heat for so long, they realized the baby was probably dehydrated. One of the rangers grabbed a container and filled it with water. When the container was within reach of the elephant, he reacted immediately, lowered his trunk into the water and began to drink happily. For now, a truce of sorts has been struck between the rangers and the beast. With the water available to him, the baby elephant was finally able to support himself. Not only did he drink until he was no longer thirsty, but he also hosed himself down to cool and cleanse himself. The cold water on his back was the perfect way to ward off the heat of the sun. With his mood improved, one of the rangers was now able to get closer to the baby elephant and inspect it more closely. It was of great importance to ensure that the elephant was well after this tiring day. When no injuries were found on his body, the rangers were relieved. As the day progressed, they noticed that the baby elephant looked up nervously at every noise. It was obvious that he missed his family. But amazingly, the next sound the baby elephant heard was exactly the one it had been waiting for all day. His flock called to him. The men also heard the noise, but didn't know from which direction it came. It turned out that they were back near the watering hole, right where the whole mishap had started. They had come back to pick up the baby elephant and signaled their presence to him. As soon as the cub was close enough to see his herd, he called out to them and was overjoyed. The rangers got into their vehicle, drove to a safe distance and safely observed what was happening from there. The elephant calf happily ran towards its family. The herd responded with the same excitement and the people witnessed an incredible moment. If this story touched you as much as it did us, you should watch this video. A crying elephant begs a man for help. Then something unexpected happened. Click here to get the full story.