Hello everyone, I am Ah Chao. Scrambled eggs with tofu are a very simple and delicious side dish. Today I will teach you a new and different way of making it. After making it according to my method, you will never have to go to a restaurant to eat it. Let's take a look. Let's get up and learn about my cooking method. First, we need to prepare two pieces of fresh soft tofu. If we stir-fry this dish, we must choose soft tofu to make it especially delicious. After the tofu is ready, put it on the chopping board and cut the tofu in half. After cutting, stand it up and cut it thinner, then change the knife and cut it into strips. Finally, we cut the tofu into small cubes and cut the tofu into small pieces like our hands . Then prepare a large bowl, add a spoonful of edible salt to it , and pour it in. Fill the water with a spoon and stir the salt to dissolve. After it dissolves, we put the tofu into the water. Many people blanch the tofu when frying it. In fact, the tofu made like that is not delicious and not tender. Just soak it in salt water for about 10 minutes. Next, add two spoons of light soy sauce and two spoons of light soy sauce. We need to add a base of flavor to the tofu in advance. This way, the tofu will be very tasty. There is an old saying that says tofu has no salt, so we must Soak it with light soy sauce and soak it for about 20 minutes. Next, prepare a small bowl and beat three real eggs. After the eggs are beaten in, we use chopsticks to stir it and stir it evenly. We need to stir the eggs into egg liquid and stir it carefully . It's better to stir in the same direction to make it more even. After stirring evenly, let's put it aside first. Next, we need to prepare some garlic, cut it into garlic slices , and then change the knife to chop it into minced garlic. Chop the minced garlic and pour it into a bowl. Prepare a piece of peeled ginger and cut it into thin slices. Then use a knife to cut it into shredded ginger . Finally, we can cut it into minced ginger . After mincing the minced ginger, put it together with the minced garlic. Prepare a few millet peppers . Cut off the peppers and chop them into pieces. After cutting the small rings of millet peppers, put them together with the minced garlic . Prepare a handful of green onions. Cut them into chopped green onions. After cutting the chopped green onions, put them together with the minced garlic. We will chop the remaining green onion leaves into chopped green onions. Chop the chopped green onions and put them in. Set aside in a bowl. Next, make the sauce. Add a tablespoon of edible salt , a tablespoon of chicken essence, and two tablespoons of light soy sauce . Add a tablespoon of oyster sauce to freshen it up. Add some pepper to remove the fishy smell and add flavor. Then we add a little water and stir it with a spoon. Make the sauce evenly in advance to save time for cooking. Stir the sauce evenly. Let's put it aside first . At this time, our tofu is almost soaked. Look at the color of our tofu. It has turned dark blue. Next, we need to put the inside of the tofu. Pour out the water and pour out the tofu. After pouring out the tofu, we set it aside first , then pour the tofu into a larger bowl and sprinkle a little chopped green onion. Then pour the egg liquid into the tofu and stir it with your hands. Stir evenly until the eggs and tofu are incorporated. The eggs and tofu made by doing this together are particularly delicious. After mixing evenly, we put it aside first , then heat the pot and add a small amount of cooking oil. After the oil is heated, we put the eggs and tofu into the pot. Here we turn on a low heat and slowly cook them. Fry it and let the tofu and eggs fuse together. This is the best way to make fried tofu with eggs. It will be particularly delicious after it is made. Fry it slowly over low heat and let the tofu and eggs fuse with the tofu. Dear friends, you have all seen the video here. If my video is helpful to you, please move your little fortune-making hand and give me a like. Every like and comment of yours is the motivation for me to move forward. Thank you everyone. You have always supported and encouraged me. After stir-frying it quickly, put the minced ginger, garlic , millet and spicy food into the pot. Turn on high heat and quickly stir-fry it. Stir-fry it evenly . Stir-fry all the tofu and eggs until they are delicious. This is the egg. The best way to stir-fry tofu is to stir-fry quickly and evenly until it is almost done. Then pour in the prepared sauce and turn on high heat to quickly absorb the juice. This way the tofu will be very tasty. Stir-fry it quickly. Stir it evenly and garnish it with a little chopped green onion. It's so delicious. Stir it quickly for six or seven or eight times and it's ready. Then scoop it out and put it in a bowl. You can eat the eggs and tofu. The way I do it is very good whether it is served with wine or dinner, and it is very respectable even if it is used to entertain guests. Moreover, my method is also very simple. As long as you follow my method, you can easily master it in 3 minutes. Today's video is shared here. If you like it, save it and try it. See you in the next video.