&gt;&gt;JEANINE BANKS: Welcome to the 16th Google I/O! Yeah! developer community, all millions of you around Literally whatever you imagine, Only Google's ecosystem gives people on 3 billion Android Chromium-based browsers. helpful apps with Firebase, models like Gemini and Gemma. At Google, we're on a mission to every developer on the planet. fundamentals of software techniques for how you build and build. by assisting you with many debugging and testing your code, or generating That's why Gemini is available Android Studio, Chrome DevTools, project IDX, [Cheers and Applause]. context such as app settings, source code. changing "how we build." build." things will work great across literally, anywhere they are, home or at work. side of the world. use need to make that possible, It's great to see the latest means more complexity, especially with We want to make your lives As code becomes content and Whether you're building an AI-powered mobile app, across all platforms, we're providing you with from Google and the open ecosystem, and it comes AI models and global Cloud infrastructure. focused on what you want to build. and not the plumbing. today. you can use the Gemini API in engaging and multimodal apps. how Gemini helps you create a experiences on Android and the productivity. at work creating the very best experience Our team will share what's now Flutter and Firebase, and we think that will Then, we will talk about how you AI models, with Gemini. You'll see how Colab, Keras, and Finally, I'll be back up here to share Are you ready to jump in? Okay, awesome! come join us! &gt;&gt;JACLYN KONZELMANN: Our and infrastructure allows us to into your hands. building with an AI app with a can focus on building the best users. hackathons and meetups, I'm pushing the boundaries with our audio and video inputs to the windows, it's really inspiring And like you heard about earlier model for your needs requires a That's why I'm thrilled that open to all developers to start You can get started using the which is now available in more territories. But what I'm seeing more and just about selecting the right techniques to bring your ideas Let's say you want to get. In fact, Google AI Studio lets And now with our 2 million token compelling option. Studio. We've made it easier for you to Or, if you want to get straight to code, with one of our many SDKs. some inspiration, we also have a Gemini But today, I want to take you work flows, that has things done. me, ideas always seem to strike So now when an idea comes to and capture a voice memo to This could be at the park with walking. a saved prompt that I have right now. me write new blog posts. added some system instructions, which tell I've also added a few of my output will better mirror my Next, I'm going to add a bunch of voice memos for an upcoming post. go into my Drive and add these two voice memos. to play you a clip of one of those just so you &gt;&gt; Okay. connection about two pretty, career. hear, I was at the park with my Now that these have loaded, I'm Turn these into a blog post. And what you're about to see is Gemini 1.5 Flash the system instructions, my voice and turn it into what will hopefully be a From throw-away work to the power of right to think. I think I can probably take it from there. As context windows grow, we're with models to solve tasks. new set of AI applications, but computationally expensive. announce a new Context Caching So how does it work? your prompt doesn't change, you call it on subsequent turns for So imagine I'm a journalist trying to To help me brainstorm ideas, I content I've already created: maybe some voice memos. all this content at once, which, cents for that first turn, along with the Since I cached the content I'm will only cost me .10 cents, prompts. Of course, this concept is applications that you might want to build. legal documents, research employee training materials. Gemini models are empowering transform workflows, enhancing touch of user delight. development. and uses their own AI models to But what's really unique is how 1 million token context window. contain hundreds of layers with non-descript Locofy sends this entire design meaningful names in the Because Gemini understands the Is actually able to rename it in code as Another one that I love is how abilities. with low vision to better environment through an app or questions. Flash, users will be able to get Another developer, Zapier, is connect different apps and automate They built a workflow to artifacts like ahs and ums from as soon as a user uploads a file to Google Drive. have and the code you write will applications for the world. Developer Competition for a custom electric DeLorean. For those of you in the out at the AI pavilion, maybe grab a picture, I'll leave you now with my a little bit more about it. &gt;&gt; Hey! acting work, but my real passion When I'm in the zone, I'm I don't know if you know this about the future, and Google's get us there. Google's new Gemini Developer will blow your mind back to most creative, useful and If you're a Dev or Dev T that But you'll have some catching up I just drank three cups of nitro crank out some genius! Time to go wormhole! talked about how Gemini models Now we'll look at examples of experiences on Android, the system. AI at the core, enabling you to on mobile. were not even possible just a So let's dive into the ways that next generation of apps on Using Google AI Studio, you can directly into your app to When using Google Cloud, you can capabilities of Gemini through This is Google's fully-managed for building and deploying Whether you simply need world want to build end-to-end AI Gemini API is a great solution. our most efficient model for on- It runs directly on mobile, and data privacy. features like suggested replies that the data won't leave the Gemini Nano also guarantees AI there's no cellular network Gemini Nano inference is made service managing on-device It removes the developer burden large language models. currently available on the Pixel series, and, as you heard their reach to additional Gemini Nano gives you the best model on-device. to customize and work with open also built MediaPipe LLM to give Last year, we announced an Early and we got an overwhelming We're now working closely with a we're creating the best APIs experiences. access even wider in the coming One of these trailblazers is They're building an experience rapidly catch up on unread chats. Grammarly. easily experiment with Gemini suggestions feature. are just the beginning. build with Gemini. about developer productivity and and easier to build excellent [Applause]. We know how It's been so fun to see the community. that we're taking a significant first class tooling and library on Android! We've been adding Kotlin JetPack libraries, like expanding it to your favorite At Google, we've been migrating Kotlin multiple Platform to share business The Workspace team is excited to Kotlin Multiplatform across the future. our work with Google apps, and JetBrains and the Kotlin benefits of KMP to all of you. your productivity by sharing On the UI layer, Compose helps and today, 40% of the top 1,000 and Soundcloud are taking Compose brings. Compose with more performance build beautiful UIs across form Compose continues to be faster with R8 and baseline profiles, app's performance. experience, you can now use Compose. We've built a simple and choreograph beautiful share content. animates text changes, and it back, right out of the box. significantly increased feel great across the diverse Rather than thinking about you to think adaptive. screen sizes and configurations. we've built a new set of Compose layouts, using Material Early adopters are already their Compose projects, development time. improvements to stylus, mouse Compose, to make it easier to your user's hand. handwriting recognition which, transforms handwriting into text Widgets are another high user With JetPack Glance, you can now adapt to all screen sizes. for generated previews to improve user Next, is testing. Pixel and other OEMS to connect Android Device Streaming, Beta. adaptive app on a wider array of latest foldables and tablets. in the Resizable Emulator, which across different device types. Compose UI check mode, which solutions to adaptive and Let's hear from Soundcloud about development to create excellent Then Jamal will join us to share supercharge your productivity. generation music entertainment of artists, fans and curators. I'm super passionate about music development at SoundCloud, where JetPack Compose. when it was still an early Our goal was to overcome the manipulating some of this. of lines of code when migrating Compose. natural it was to create Now we've migrated around 50% of Compose. writing our base building blocks can write new features with it It's important for us to be that people can listen to Our team's mobile Compose skills form factors, given that its same. We build our Wear and TV apps just four months, which would old system. tablet layouts and the whole are built in Compose. factors has allowed us to reach ultimately increases our global [Applause]. It is so exciting developers create amazing and Android Studio that people and their devices. to accelerate your productivity for you. Bot as your AI coding companion Thanks to your feedback, we over 200 countries and Stable, and, brought it into the month. in Android Studio. the latest Gemini 1.5 Pro models next level. use AI so you can spend more development that you like, and So for example, the Crashlytics even more helpful than ever showing crashes and errors in we now use Gemini to analyze and to fix those issues. features, you ultimately have don't share, with AI privacy Android Studio. let's jump into the IDE to see a action. app, one of our open source up that cool shared element API with us earlier. that it makes it easier to optimize my code. conditional statement that could idiomatic to Kotlin. Gemini to optimize this code so and maintain. click on my selected code, go to And let me simply input, simplify and make And what's happening is that I'm sending the code So here I have a more optimized else" structure to a more Kotlin. can do additional modifications So, for instance, it's good -- right? All I need to do is click on the some documentation. And now I have augmented -- -- a code change with the help of Gemini. And there we go. code for readability and even added some code Nice. things on code itself, but it that are perfect for Android app So for example, we have this bit of translation. resource file, my colleague left me But I don't know Spanish that But Gemini does. I can navigate -- right click Click on transform. type in, translate to Spanish. and strings to the model. Looks pretty good. Nice. section for completeness. right click, go to Gemini, then transform. Results look pretty good. Okay. I can simply refresh my app screen on the So let me refresh. There we go. [Applause]. So I've translated my app screen into All right. changes, did some translations. think about a brand new app. get started. new project, and let me open up Now, sometimes, you might get a hand-off resource to get So in this case, I have a screen for an Android app. Let me enter in a quick prompt Now, what's happening here is I'm using the large later this year for Android developers. multimodal input. a wire frame to app and give it a prompt, which to build a screen so that the compose preview is sure to include imports and use material 3. response back in Gemini model. So here it is. So a main activity here, using a material 3. Let's copy that to my clipboard. Close this. Make this interactive. [Applause]. Working Android code all using As you can see, Gemini in evolve with features like code that you can try today in And you can try multi-modal later this year. invite Jon to talk about how AI [Applause]. years old this August. developers like you have shaped brought countless innovations to It's the dawn of a new generation Today, I'll show you how we are and bring you new capabilities It's your path to better It's a more powerful web made As you heard earlier, Google is AI solutions that span all types of customers, The web is vital to achieving execution is vital to serving features. to serving AI models from the deliver AI solutions at lower cost, with better data privacy. build your features with, WebGPU backbone technologies that This year we have invested run quickly and efficiently on Improvements like 16-bit WebGPU, and Memory64 and in WASM are making AI run faster So, whether you are using Transformers.js, MediaPipe, or WebGPU enable you to run your majority of devices on the Companies are already seeing the models on device. recognition technology in behind the speaker. session duration by 30% and This commitment to on-device Starting in Chrome 126, Gemini Chrome Desktop client itself! We use Gemini to enable Chrome's write", which uses on-device AI content like product reviews, feedback forms. fine-tuned our most efficient Chrome to load the model Now we want to give you access Our vision is that you will be features to Chrome's billions of engineering, fine-tuning, capacity and cost. high-level APIs, like translate, This is a big shift for the web, We have started to engage with work with you, too. the web by signing up for our With webGPU, WASM, and Gemini ready. AI made it easier for companies build powerful experiences on &gt;&gt; Let's go. here right now. Right here right now. now. Hey. &gt;&gt;JON DAHLKE: AI features are build around them. capabilities for you to create When people think about clicking on a blue link, waiting around a little bit, and then finally But that's not the web we Our vision is one where the experience, where you seamlessly site to the next, and your To achieve this, we first need page loads. Our new Speculation Rules API navigation. dramatically speed up browsing and pre-rendering pages in the This allows pages to load And best of all -- And best of all, the API code to get started. their Core Web Vitals loading scores And by using AI to identify the likely to visit, they optimized efficiency of pre-fetched and Next, we need to make the To achieve this, we launched the single-page apps, and we've been Developers across the world are to build better experiences. created smooth and seamless editor sidebar right into amenities, all within a fluid But not everyone wants a single shouldn't have to choose one to create a great user So available today in Chrome can now be used for multi-page [Cheers and Applause]. navigation regardless of your And when you combine View Rules and AI, page transitions With these new interaction developer, you can redefine what As you build these new one of the most popular ways to Let me show you a new way that DevTools easier than ever. warnings and errors when your correctly. always the easiest to interpret. insights right in your Chrome It will help you understand what it! Let's take a quick look at how built using Angular. tea. had it. research on which I should try first. Hmmm, this isn't working. what's wrong. DevTools, and when I look at the has been blocked by the CORS policy. or how to fix it. this light bulb icon next to the error, and when I'm going to click on that, then I'm going data be sent up to Gemini. instantly generates a error, and a potential solution. And from reading this description, by the New York response header. And I'm going to navigate over to the Here's the URL that's causing the problem. I'm going to scroll down to the response Then, I'm going to override the network code that Gemini gave me. And just like that, the error is [Applause]. development by taking away so you can focus on what you care Console insights in Chrome an experimental feature in the And will be rolling out to more countries soon. Thank you for taking this powerful and easier than ever, together. your users expect a seamless they're engaging with your apps. how we're helping you serve your [Applause]. All right! and ship AI-powered apps that run well on Android, You told us how big a deal this can be, so we embarked on a developer workspace. together a collection of Google extensibility to bring in any AI-powered, multi-platform development. We were overwhelmed by your Hundreds of thousands of you And we'd like everyone to be able So, today IDX is open to public [Cheers and Applause]. Let's dive in to see what you can do. to get to work quickly with over the basic files and packages you need, and its dependencies, or even You have all the tools you need already configured in the IDX others. integrations to help improve First, the Google Maps Platform your apps. Chrome Web apps using DevTools and lighthouse. deployment with Cloud Run. coming soon to IDX is a new way compliance workflow with Checks, [Applause]. and detects compliance issues as ensure the safety and quality of IOS and Android developers can Checks website. Switching gears from what's new touch on the latest advancements products that IDX integrates [Cheers and Applause]. Flutter is the world's most for building beautiful cross- [Cheers and Applause]. ways to bring your apps to life across And Flutter's single codebase text generation, summarization quickly and easily. app that uses Google's on-device the potential of your existing The app quickly recognizes and helps you reimagine what you The team initially only shipped Flutter they expanded their doubling their users! later, they're a global hit! Flutter empowering a team to But what if they wanted to bring wider audience? And we're excited to share that WASM support for channel as part of Flutter 3.22 and Dart 3.4. Our benchmarks show that WASM offers up to 2X improvement Flutter web apps compiled to So this means that teams like Brickit can offer directly to users on the Web. WASM support today. You've got your frontend up and now you need to seamlessly Of course, that's where Firebase [Cheers and Applause]. updates we're shipping for Firebase. &gt;&gt;DAVID EAST: Thanks, Erin. have relied on Firebase to and run your apps with amazing because when I started years ago, it was only a Then in 2016, we transformed platform. [Applause]. build and run AI-powered platforms. few new prizes. and more specifically, SQL databases. asked us, how do I use Firebase with SQL. Firebase Data Connect with [Cheers and Applause]. It's an entirely new way to build We designed Data Connect so code than before. typesafe client-side code, with your data structure. development. support, you can build AI similarities using your stored If you're excited to try out preview and check out our Next up, let's talk Hosting. JavaScript frameworks like We wanted to reimagine Firebase web apps at global scale. App Hosting, our next-generation preview. App Hosting automatically pulls repository, runs the framework Google Cloud infrastructure you than ever before. Since the early days of Firebase getting started experience. Database, we made it so you just JavaScript to sync data in We want to bring that same level AI development. Firebase Genkit, a new AI developers, in beta now for coming soon. Genkit gives you a consistent With Genkit, trying a new model Genkit also works with Zod typescript output from LLM And because this is Firebase, we testing easy so Genkit comes can use to inspect every trace tweak and improve output. out-of-the-box with Gemini and environment. Google also collaborated with inference performance with our You can run Genkit locally on Gemma. production, Genkit can easily authenticated API right to We'll continue to invest in developer experience to help you market faster and safely across Now I'd like to welcome Sharbani models. &gt;&gt;SHARBANI ROY: What is the on? what's the hardest problem you're working on? we chat about our open models, and tooling, and dig into a join together these underlying magical. models can be as easy as using Jaclyn talked about earlier, where we handle the models so you can focus on building AI features. flexibility and control to be able model for your specific-use cases? family of open models! infrastructure and tooling as make the most useful and Just last month, we released coding tasks across languages. leverages recurrent neural improve memory efficiency and And, as Josh announced earlier PaliGemma, for multimodal next generation, Gemma 2 with stellar performance AND fits With new models and a blistering challenging to keep up? To make things easier, we've optionality at every layer of meet you where you are, helping existing skills and tools as Starting from the ground up, GPUs and TPUs, including our new announced earlier by Sundar, for AI workloads by using the OpenXLA, which supports multiple and JAX, and their surrounding To Keras 3, our easy-to-use use TensorFlow, JAX or Pytorch All embraced by millions of Now, let's dig a little deeper, and on stage for a quick Colab. Colab. for developers and researchers to get started with from software like Keras being pre-installed to it does make it really easy for you to fingertips in the browser for free. recovering data scientists, right? out of problems to get new solutions. Well, actually for that, there's a cool new Rapids CuDF. PANDAs code, you can run it much, much faster. when doing those data sciency bits. Now, how about we share with our friends and give them a glimpse into a day in the &gt;&gt; Well, everybody, don't tell Sundar, app ideas over way too much coffee. intelligent app that could find a new book for read and enjoyed and since it will include to work on-device to keep things private. But I'll let you all in on a little secret. Those same code and those same skills gone beyond creating their own models and they the world of generative AI and fine-tune also known as LoRA, all from within Colab. at general reasoning but for specific tasks you to tune them on your own data. a single GPU in Colab but sometimes you might the cloud, meaning you'll need to span multiple strategy API is your friend. The quicker you train, the quicker you I could geek out about this all day. Now, all we need is data. some synthetic data to quick start the process. studio with a simple prompt and we now including title, genre and even a little your data does have to be in a specific format. we're just going to go back we can see it's actually a pretty easy task, Keras with a JAX back end for top performance. old-fashioned model.fit and now, Gemma can reason across a diverse range of books. that these learning leprechauns think how I'm going to run this on a mobile. Speaking of mobile, we're making it This brings easy access to all the along with a suite of tools to run we've expanded support for TensorFlow light [Applause]. my friend Matthew spoke about how MediaPipe helps Let's use that. Absolutely. You can see it in Android studio. API with an entry in my build.gradle and now I Now, with a lot of data it takes a little It's about 20 minutes on a GPU. &gt;&gt;LAURENCE MORONEY: It's not too one that I built a little earlier. do a little more to personalize it. made about what my family likes and we to get better answers and remember, keeping on details don't get shared with anyone. mind meld, and here's a simple rag to augment my prompt to our Gemma. your family would enjoy &quot;A Time Traveling that it gave and you know what, maybe &gt;&gt;SHARBANI ROY: To learn more about that we covered today, check out ai.google.dev. steps that you can take to use Gemini and API to with LoRA to create a deeper experience on books, thanks to Google AI edge. Now, before we go, how about we show you &gt;&gt;LAURENCE MORONEY: Do we have to go? Well, our coffee chats, they're really We also try to solve those hard problems. about Project Game Face, open-sourced to use your facial gestures as a controller. even more inspirational. &gt;&gt; Project Game Face has had quite the journey. their favorite games, thinking faces became the new command center. had the opportunity to use Google AI to We're excited to launch Project Game Face for cursor on their Android devices just by using Google is working closely with a social understand accessibility needs, nuances of how and how Project Game Face can be a &gt;&gt; I'm ready with the face feature I can use most effectively. and Android accessibility service, we're excited and solve nuance cases with this product. widening access to technology and re-defining possible. This morning, Sundar talked about how we're agents to work together to step. an AI Agent that's going to make really excited. data Science Agent. Pro and takes advantage of long context. plain language about a dataset And this is not just the It's the model coming up with And not only do I get an answer but the AI agent also produces a based on your instructions. allowing for real-time collaboration on code, It's available today at Let us know what you think about [Cheers and Applause]. excited all day? We're committed to empowering AI--boldly and responsibly. in your favorite IDEs, to easy Gemini models, and it comes with You have an opportunity to reach Google's ecosystem of devices, We continue to invest in resources, Google Accelerators and the couple of great examples. over 1300 startups in 84 success stories. have grown to become unicorns. founded by Dr. Soudip Roy recent graduate of our Climate Eugenie was born out of Dr. good. companies dramatically reduce Eugenie's algorithms apply has helped optimize energy use Eugenie was able to streamline their model emissions data through Google Earth Engine. startups to tackle big problems, upcoming accelerator soon. If you have one of the 15 profiles, you enjoy invitations a chance to participate in research, and Beginning today, your profile is better. Program. access new benefits at no cost. First, you can access Gemini chatting with documentation. enabling you to go from two And third, if you're in the community, you get credits for interactive [Cheers and Applause]. Program today, or if you already all set. More benefits are coming soon. That brings us to the close of today's There's a lot more to Google If you're with us here in attend sessions, workshops, and If you're online, you'll find io.Google starting this Thursday Last year, we kicked off a series of I/O connect shoreline to more places that are closer to you. them, so we've got three of them Berlin on June 27th, with August. And I'll mention, I'll be at all of If you can't join us at IO community-led IO Extended events Now, I'd like to share We had Project Astra watch the Let's see what it says! My name is Michael Chang, and we're watching with Project Astra. Hey, Gemini. watching Google I/O keynote right now. &gt;&gt; Sure. What's happening in the keynote? What does it look like they're &gt;&gt; It looks like they're The speaker is talking about its speed and &gt;&gt; What are the other features? optimized for tasks where low latency &gt;&gt; Cool. &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah, sorry. Keep going. What were we talking about? capabilities of 1.5 Flash. &gt;&gt; Yes. new Gemini model and its efficiency and speed. What would you like to talk about now? to talk about next. He seems to be moving on to the topic Perhaps they will talk about how &gt;&gt; It looks like he just announced a new project. &gt;&gt; They are calling that project Project Astra. AI assistance. Project Astra will be helpful for? It will be interesting to see what how it integrates with our daily lives. What would you use a universal agent for? everyday tasks would, indeed, be helpful. like scheduling, finding information or &gt;&gt; Oh, that would be super cool. It sounds amazing. revolutionize how we interact with technology. Can you summarize what he showed so far? an AI-powered universal agent for everyday They discussed the challenges of building this making Astra helpful and intuitive for users. Amazing! he talk about before Project Astra? particularly Gemini 1.5 Flash, which &gt;&gt; Ah. focused on the future direction of AI models and &gt;&gt; It looks like they're now What does it look like &gt;&gt; In the video, someone is holding The phone is running Project Astra, which can &gt;&gt; And what is it doing now? computer screen displaying code. section of the code is doing. That's super cool. all of these things to me, Gemini. Is there anything else I can &gt;&gt; Let's just keep on watching. &gt;&gt; In the video, Astra is identifying London using the phone's camera view. &gt;&gt; Wow. is -- this technology exists right now. Astra seems very advanced at interpreting what [Applause]. I'm looking forward to Project Astra, Thank you for being here. Let's go build something amazing!