What does it mean... for a world to have died? Does it have to be desolate, does it have still rich with green, still haunted by the I ask these questions, because the game Gris... thing I've ever played. The world is incredible -- the colors, the It's all so... alive. Which is important, because I believe the When we think of 'dead worlds,' we typically This is especially true for video games -- where is lacking in meaningful content. But I want to challenge this assumption, to and filled with artistic merit, yet are, in For sometimes the end of the world is just Speaking of which, Gris begins with the end The protagonist, living in a landscape of this realm collapsing around her. Falling through the sky, she descends all but a monochrome, desolate expanse. From here, the world is split into five sections Each region is further centered on a dominant detachment of denial. Recovering from the fall, you wander through from the recent calamity, or perhaps remnants The environments of Gris are not meant to often a symbolic representation of the main The opening of Gris can be better understood personal loss personified on a vast, impersonal Shadow of the Colossus is the kind of title The iconic story of a lone warrior defeating to life -- the game does not, at a glance, I mean... there are giant creatures wandering around right? Yet the Forbidden Lands -- the forgotten, manage to feel... blank. The kind of blankness that hollows you out. It takes so long to travel to each colossus minuscule next to the bleak enormity of the There's an argument to be made that this in earlier versions of the game due to the remastered version, the 'wrongness' this that life has forsaken. Though often beautiful, it is, in its own But Shadow of the Colossus has more in common setting. It is also, quite overtly, a story about denial. It is clear from the opening sequence that resurrect their loved one is... extremely And yet it's easy for both the protagonist because there are monsters to fight! But as the game wears on, you start to think only become aggressive if you attack first. I'm far from the first person to make this bareness, you're left alone with your thoughts This makes it harder to hide from the fact remaining beings in this world -- all because ...If you return to a spot where you slew become part of the landscape, the surroundings of life. It is impossible, when exploring these remains, done. Though you, like the protagonist, want to -- is really dead, the physicality of these It's not clear, at first, whom the protagonist But it is clear she is grieving for someone significance quite literally embodied in the That disintegrating hand in the opening represented protagonist's life that their remains continue death. The way death alters the landscapes of these When a whale swims its last, the carcass will and create something called a 'whalefall.' The impact of a whalefall on the abyssal ecosystem A single carcass can bring more organic material nutrients falling from the surface. Like grief, whalefalls too can be divided In the initial Scavenger Stage, specialized After playing Shadow of the Colossus, I think For the next two years, the whale's remains new ecosystem formed from the remains of a The world of Gris, likewise, doesn't remain And as denial turns to anger, harsh splotches You slide, emboldened with reckless fury, Ruins streak these maroon sands, the jutting some ancient battle. Storms also sweep through this region, watercolor shelter. Yet critically, the game gives you the option inevitably be blown backwards, it's difficult forwards, and become angry at the world itself... The game Hollow Knight similarly encourages With its punishing difficulty and aggressive you against the world. Set in the fallen kingdom of Hallownest, Hollow illness known simply as the Infection -- an form of rageful insects and great pustules The background design can make the entire growth upon a long-dead exoskeleton. Yet Hollow Knight is also full of quiet expressions environments. Though nominally a game about violence, I how beauty can emerge in the toughest conditions. In the second stage of Gris, you can encounter, of ruins. Like the denizens of Hollow Knight, one could all shapes and sizes -- as infections, unwanted But there's also something poignant here, adversity, one that can help you appreciate Perhaps a version of the world has perished, that new life has taken root. With the protagonist's anger subsiding, Enormous vines snake across the landscape, to a vast and inviting forest. Your grief has now entered the bargaining will no longer shape the world, that there Yet even in the midst of the forest, the shells overrun with encroaching plant life. ...How should we feel when we see cities reclaimed It's a question that was on my mind a lot simulator crossed with a... dystopian landscape In this game, you help plants swallow up the complicated emotions. On the one hand, Cloud Gardens has a charming cityscapes into bastions of life quite satisfying. But on the other hand, well... there's definitely no sign of living people In his book "The World Without Us," American theoretically happen to human structures and And the answer, for the most part, is that extremely quickly. Most buildings would be gone in just a few Certain plastics and metals would linger a On a geological timescale, our built environments There is a kind of mental bargaining that make me feel. Is it comforting to know that new life would species were to go extinct? Or is it terrifying to imagine being forgotten There are no other humans left in the forest But there is a little robot, who you, fittingly, out of the woods. It's a sweet change of pace from your lonesome Yet something about the way the robot knows you feel like it belongs in this reborn world don't. The world you knew is gone, and no amount As the protagonist floats once more in the changes a fourth time and the long melancholy This stage of grief is represented, unsurprisingly, Rain begins to fall like teardrops as you Yet while the surface of this region is gloomy, a thriving ecosystem of fish. It's a jarring transition. How can this 'dead world,' a world in I don't think I've ever seen a setting A game where you steer a diver through gorgeous overflowing with movement. I genuinely don't even know how it's possible schools of fish at a time. If you just stop the camera, anywhere, the by is just insane. It's all so kinetic, so interactive, so I don't know that there's ever been a And yet the world of Abzu is haunted by death. From early in the game, you can stumble upon Each fragment tells of a culture that fell, their crumbling halls now home to creatures There are ruins in the ocean of Gris as well, It reminds me of the second stage of a whalefall, worms' spread their roots into the bones. They pick the skeleton completely clean, making But there's a moment in Abzu that conveys perhaps any other piece of media. It is, at first, a tranquil moment where you ocean. And as you swim, an entire pod of whales joins huge gulps of krill. And then they swim on, and you think the moment larger than the first, comes in from the other Before you even have a chance to fully process A blue whale emerges from offscreen, its eye And then the camera pulls all the way back, pod, and they all start spinning through the And then, at last, this pod departs as well, all the way down to the very bottom of the And what you find down here is a vast boneyard It's a real tonal shift, that can be read But I think that would be doing this moment are picked clean -- that doesn't mean they're In the third and final stage of a whalefall, full of bacteria that produce vital sulfides Other forms of life can flourish around a longer than the lifespan of whales themselves. Maybe the bionetwork of Abzu is built upon remains that so much life has gathered in Even in the best of circumstances, however, of death. For worlds, this typically means some kind moment that disaster movies love to show us I think it's important, therefore, that in Abzu. You also never learn what emptied the world in Shadow of the Colossus, you know, cursed. Even Gris, which is about the passing of a gives us any insight into the demise itself. In the context of these narratives, it doesn't What matters is what happens next. If any force in Gris could be labeled apocalyptic, the protagonist throughout her journey. Likely a representation of grief's most threatens to overwhelm the main character. Like sorrow itself, it knows no boundaries, In one underwater section, it becomes a giant in one of the tensest chase scenes I've Like death, it seems inescapable, able to or transform into a thousand little eels that One of the grimmest dead worlds I've seen Soviet animated short film. Based on a Ray Bradbury story of the same systems of a house continuing their pre-programed of the house are... ashes. It is revealed that this building is the last been obliterated by nuclear war. The title for 'There Will Come Soft Rains' the house recites part of at the end of the nor tree, / If mankind perished utterly; / And scarcely know that we were gone." Though not exactly... uplifting, this poem, like Bradbury's short short. I think there is a kind of comfort one can without us, particularly in 1918 when the the First World War. The poem, and many of the games in this video, to an end, another will take its place. Even in the darkness, there is light. The very last color of Gris is an illuminating acceptance. Significantly, however, this final stage does The architecture, though brighter, is still Acceptance doesn't mean returning to the they are. I don't think any game exemplifies this I want to discuss today. Set within a harsh desert, Sable has, on the post-apocalyptic world in this entire video. But it is not, to a remarkable degree, a game None of the people you speak to are wistful that surrounds them. Though there isn't as much wildlife in this delight in the animals they have all the more. Everyone's satisfaction, presumably, is the way things used to be. The world has mourned, and now, it has moved Indeed, as a coming-of-age story, Sable's on what's waiting over the next horizon. I think it's fitting that the largest structure Whale.' Implied to have once been part of an interstellar building materials to make new houses. Likewise, there are theories that there is where their skeleton provides a structure Since scientists have only been researching unknown how far into the future this stage Is a whalefall really dead? I mean, certainly the whale is dead -- that matter how positive we want to be about its I don't want to trivialize the idea of a Not all these games leave you feeling uplifted, Acceptance isn't about feeling happy forever; And for all their beauty, these worlds are are moments of delight. These worlds have died. And the world lives on. And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.