- Today, we are gonna build Here's how. This is Chris' foundation. And this is Chandler's platform. - That's me. - And whoever has the gets $50,000. And you're probably wondering, how do they build these We have heavy duty machinery. They can build these towers Also, your partner is Carl. So, Chris, if you win the 50-grand, you have to split it with Carl. - Yeah. - This is your partner. Now, if you accept Tyler, you have to split the prize with him. - Acceptance. - All right, get started, And if we use up this entire And this is just one of - This is a lot of money. Hey, Chandler! - Hey, over there, don't touch my money! (upbeat rock music) - We started with two people on each team. Now this team has four people These towers are about to get big. (upbeat rock music) - So far, your tower's about - That's pretty good. (bell pinging) - We'll get to nipple height soon. - Yeah. - If you don't follow me on One day I found out that four feet and eight inches off the ground. You're welcome. Oh my gosh, they're over nipple height. Chris, their tower's five - Good for them! - If I was to end the challenge right now, they have a taller - Too bad you still need a video. - I do. This is a bowling ball. Guys, stop building, line-up. Line-up. - Here's the bowling ball. Come right here. Bowl that bowling ball. (everyone cheering) - Okay. I mean, it's not too brutal. Here's the difference. Chandler's tower has a wall protecting it. Let's see if it works. Here you go. - He's doing the loop-de-loop. (squeaky toy squeaking) - How does it feel, Chris? Oh, I fixed it! - So as you guys can see Good job! - Yeah! - If we keep doing this, we will get it. - [Jimmy] Are you building a bigger wall? - No. Oh, we're not on the same page. - The top of their Things are about to get interesting. - All they did was just a We can rebuild this easy. - We need to build on the sides, 'cause our goal is to build two towers and then connect it here - This right here, sturdiest wall you've ever - You guys have 20 minutes to The loser has to boot Whoever's tower is the tallest by the end of 20 minutes wins. You guys have 20 minutes. - Just grabbing a bunch of onefers. - So if you guys don't who will you get rid of? - Chandler's the captain, - All right, we're just as big as we can go. And by too high, I mean - Only up from here, baby. - So we're finally using the crane. This is where it gets fun. - We're just gonna put this on - So my plan is I'm gonna 'cause I know Zach's a tall bean. That's why we got him and sort of Weddle, 'cause Weddle sucks! - [Weddle] Yeah, well, that's true. (dramatic music) - It's time for Armageddon. - While we have this opportunity, we need to tear that wall down. - Yeah, long game. - Three, two, one, fire! That didn't do anything. - [Chris] How'd you throw - And the wall held up. It's impenetrable. - Wall! - Wall! - It wasn't the wall. It's that it's impossible - I didn't even make it that far. - Three, two, one, fire! - Yeah! (Chris' team cheering) - The only thing that was (Chris cheering) Back to work! (dramatic music) - Just toss it all into the bucket. Just toss it all into the - Chris, have a bunch of ones built before you throw them. - Holy crap! - [Jimmy] 10. Nine. Eight. Seven. - Please don't knock it over. - That right there. - [Jimmy] Three. Two. - One. Stop moving! I got my trusted tape measure. Timmy! The tower is 20 feet and two inches. (Chandler's team cheering) Congratulations, your - Yes! - And we still have this much time left. - [Chandler] I hope it's enough. - Here's the deal. You're not allowed to support the tower. Everyone get off! - Ours is blocking the wind from yours. - That's not how science works. - It actually is. - [Chris] Let it go! - Carl, you should've let it go slowly. Chris, your tower's about (Chandler's team cheering) You gotta boot someone off - Zach. - Zach, you're gone for 30 minutes. - The biggest thing for this - Okay. - And that's why we have to cheat. - Why don't you go to Lowe's, get really long metal rebar Do not fail me. - All right, I got you. (upbeat rock music) - Chandler, you get one swing. You can hit whatever you want. The lower you hit, the more sturdy. - [Carl] Chillax, think about it. If you go easy, I'm just saying. (Chandler roaring) - Carl, he just obliterated your tower. Do not let him get away with that. (Carl roaring) (Chandler's team clapping) - LOL, LOL! - Why are you sabotaging us, Carl? We only listen to your strategy. (upbeat rock music) - We're gonna add concrete to our bricks. So that way they stay together better. (gentle music) We're gonna pour it right down the middle to hopefully harden the - Is no one seeing this? - What's he doing? - They put concrete. - It doesn't make their tower taller. Now they're just being stupid. - Chandler's tower's looking really tall. Here's a comparison. - [Man] Wow! - And here's the other tower. - Why'd you say that so sad? (gentle music) - If Chris falls he's I don't know why I'm Now that the towers are it's time we introduce hard hats. - I don't feel anything, what's going on? - This is so hard when you're tired. Oh my God. - I don't think I've touched (fist tapping) - Good enough. (man speaking indistinctly) (upbeat synth music) - I completely exerted all of my energy. - [Jimmy] Oh God! - [Jimmy] You're going home? - [Jimmy] Oh no, what about your team? - All the proceeds will go to them. I will take none of it. - [Jimmy] Let's break - Okay. I'm going home to sleep. - Okay. - Do well in spite of me. You can do it. - Chandler's team has now lost Chandler. - This is really bad. - [Chris] It's an embarrassment - It's leaning, it's Really, all it takes right now is one big gust of wind to push it over. (gentle music) - We good! - I don't know if I like It's so heavy. - Build this up right here, 'cause this is kind of a weak spot. We already got taller, we - So right now's our 'Cause ours is good. - We did the structure from the start and look where we are now. - Look where we are. Late game, baby! (dramatic music) - Oh! (Lego blocks thudding) (Lego blocks rattling) (Windows error beeping) - As you guys saw, their tower fell. It went from being 35, That's pretty brutal, guys. - Hurts a little bit more We can come back from it though. Positivity! - 50-grand is still on the line. Two hours. What's your plan now? - Build it back, very simple. Let's go! - I'm worried we're gonna build more and then it's gonna fall because of that. - Exactly. Only build if we have to at this point. - We're just gonna win. - [Jimmy] Mm hmm! - Shut up! (dramatic music) - We're catching up. We're not there yet, But, at the same time, there's is so tall a gust of wind comes by there's is going down. - We're scared if we keep on it's gonna start wobbling, They're getting up there fast. They're going into laser speed. Carl, you're there for support. - They genuinely will go - All right, let's go, let's go, let's go. (dramatic music) - I hate this so much! I can't tell you how terrible this is. This is the worst thing (Jimmy chuckling) (dramatic music) - And time is up. The final height of Chris's And the final height of Chandler's, JK, it's now Timmy's tower, is that. Before we measure the towers, we have a bowling ball throw. After this we'll measure both towers and the tallest one wins $50,000. This could win him 50-grand. - [Timmy] Please no! Oh my gosh, it's still up. - It's so hard to aim a Who would've thought. - All right, that is to knock it down. You guys are done. - [Tyler] Here we go, hit it! Come on! - Yes, yes, yes! You guys thought that was stupid. You said it was stupid - Let's go! - Not gonna lie, they were but we're gonna measure. (dramatic music) Guys, your tower is exactly 29 feet and four and a half inches. All right, drop it, Tyler. - [Chris] I can't the - Are we sure this is straight? Do you actually wanna know? (teams groaning) - [Chris] What go you mean? - All right, before I tell you. It seems fake, I mean, it was 29 feet and five and a half inch. (Weddle cheering) - Woo! - Woo! - Woo! (Tyler, Timmy, and Weddle cheering) - Someone measure one - [Timmy] They're like - Yeah, you guys lost by exactly a block. (Chris laughing) - Aah! - Carl in the background. - Look at Carl in the - That's what I think - Here is your one-third. $17,000. I got a suitcase full of money for you, so cowabunga! And Chandler left early, if you wanna give him - Why didn't you stay and help? That's just all I'm asking. - Because I had no energy. - Here you go. - You did give me compliments. - Thank you, guys. - And of course this is a MrBeast video, so you have one hour to spend - Of course. - Why wouldn't we. - So my brother, Zach, and I'm gonna give it to This is for you to pay off - Are you serious? - Yes, there you go, man. - Thank you. (Zach speaking indistinctly) - You can pick that up. - Dude! - My mom's hours at work got and my little brother has so we're gonna try to fix I'm giving him four and my mom 10. - All right, Carson, you know - Yeah, I know about it every day. - Well, how would $4,000 How would that feel? - What? - It would be very helpful. Thank you so much. - He's giving your mom $10,000. - Dude, what? - Bye, Carson! - His mom doesn't have FaceTime. - [Mom] Hello? You know how your hours How would $10,000 sound? - [Mom] What! Are you kidding me right now? - No, I'm not kidding you right now. - [Mom] Oh my gosh! I don't even know what to say. - That was all, he's with a briefcase full of money soon. - [Mom] I'll make sure it opens. - Yeah, I would hope so. - We're here to buy another car. What car you buying? - We're gonna have to figure that out. - So this is where Jimmy took me when a meteor fell on my car. - I know, and in this video right here, I actually bought a So we understand your pressure right now. Also you have 10 minutes, so we probably should hurry a little bit. Let's go! Come on, come on! I can rock with this, Woo! - I don't wanna pressure - Right. - But there isn't much time left. - We might as well just do it. - Sure. - Let's do it. Is this what you were - Not really, but I'm happy it is. 'Cause this is crazy, man. - So do you own a car? - I do now. (laughing) - And lastly it's Tyler. Why are we in front of this house? - Because I'm getting my - To clarify your mom has - No idea. - And she really needs this, [Tyler's Mom] Hey, baby. I won a challenge, so I'm gonna You don't have to pay- - [Tyler's Mom] Me a house for a year! - Yes, you. You don't have to pay for Yeah. - No, I'm not gonna shut up, - [Tyler's Mom] That's ridiculous. - Basically, Tyler won a - By building Legos by the Thanks for teaching me. I love you, Mom. - [Tyler's Mom] I'm glad I'm not on video. Oh, thank you guys. I'm shaking so much right now. I'm so glad I'm not on video. - All right, love you, - [Tyler's Mom] Love you, baby. - I literally built Legos That is amazing. (laughing) (bomb exploding) MrBeast 6,000 (bomb exploding)