Samsung is a brand name than 100 million U.S. Android phones, TVs, and unconventional So the 13 inch display can This is the future of But there's a huge lesser lately has made it one of and valuable companies. It's not just making It's making the chips that People probably don't know three decades. Samsung is the leader in Think long and short term They are the titan. They have nearly 50% share And it's the world's second advanced logic chips, the supercomputers, AI, more. We recently went Chipmaking factory or fab, ever given to a U.S. And how many chips are you A lot. Now it's gunning to overtake leader, Taiwan Company. We do not settle to be It ended 2022 with $245 For context, that's 47 But since then, prices for dive and they're expected 2023. In April, Samsung the first quarter of 2023, its lowest level since In response, the company chips, but it doubled down business that makes custom customers. It's building a five new fabs in its home scheduled to come online in And in the U.S., where the to reshore chip building a huge $17 billion promising to make its first next year. What's going on is just It's enormous. Really want to be a bedrock CNBC got a rare interview U.S. chip business, Jinman its Texas sites to find out plans to dominate not only Samsung dates back 85 years Byung Chul started it as a exporting fruit, vegetables His vision for our company powerful. So he chose the literally means three To survive two major wars. It diversified into sugar textiles, insurance, And it remains a this day. Samsung Rising covering the company from decade. If you had transported 70 or 80 years ago and about Samsung, they'd just say, I guess it's a little no one's really ever heard Samsung Electronics, the most, was established in The first Samsung TV came years later, Lee bought bold move toward making it consumer electronics giant The Lee family is, you could family in South Korea, one families in tech. Samsung's first U.S. offices 1978, and by 1980, Samsung a fab in Korea. By the early '80s, it was memory and had a new U.S. Lee's son took over after and its first mobile phone Now, Samsung is the world's often neck and neck with making its first memory international notoriety megabit DRAM chip in 1992, place in memory where it Its presence is so that they call their Samsung. In 1996, Samsung broke Austin, and it opened It got a new U.S. Silicon Valley in 2015, three layer stack of flash This is based on three advanced technology we And this price is almost Han has been with Samsung while its primary chip in South Korea. It, of as well as China. Besides devices, the some 57%, comes from But as shoppers cut back demand has weakened memory chips. That comes in that involved peaking disruptions, eventually shortage. It was really painful when asking &quot;more chips,&quot; but provide that. It was so But the new reality is far Smaller memory chipmakers production in late 2022. Samsung waited until April We are now going through the semiconductor demand, and will rebound possibly by Micron and SK Hynix started They've cut their spending Samsung is pushing forward, cutting back on spending unprofitable today. Instead, Samsung is shifting computing chips designed by A big difference between player TSMC is that Samsung for its own products as others. This includes Tesla, Sony, Intel, Soon AMD, IBM is is, of course, their they're moving Samsung stock has been of the chip shortage in 52-week high, despite This may be a reaction to geopolitical chip war In May, China banned chipmaker Micron, which in Samsung. And Morgan Stanley pick. In October, the U.S. on chip companies exporting China. But for now, Samsung one year waiver to operate China. The Department of Commerce to make sure that those impacted, but Samsung and fabs. When it comes to foundry, companies in the world world's most advanced between TSMC and Intel. And with mounting U.S. China eager to entice all three American soil. Good Biden's visit to Samsung in presidential trip to Asia By uniting our skills and that allows the production to both our countries and sectors of our global The first factory that I four inch wafer I moved on to five. I've done six. Our factory here started at Jon Taylor joined Samsung 26 team at the Austin Fab that Now, he heads up the whole Everything is supposed to be Since first coming to the U.S. it's invested $47 billion employees. Now it's Texas city about 30 miles Bringing Taylor on board is ability to source their have to go into areas of have some discomfort. Construction began here at year ago, and Samsung says operational by the end of It's a 1200 acre, $17 to be bigger than Samsung's It's also going to be chips that Samsung makes in Samsung says this big new to customer demand, largely risks swirling around of advanced chips are Chips such as the current Tesla cars is made in their But that that foundry in nanometer and older So it's not the leading Samsung's seven nanometer, nanometer. That is all in Over the last 30 plus years, production has plummeted That's because it costs at operate a new fab in the U.S. Labor is cheaper there, the accessible and government The Chips Act aims to Setting aside 52 billion to manufacture in the U.S.. The Chips Act is helping us in construction costs that the United States. And there definitely is a That's also why it's of that supply chain to the Of the 17 billion total Taylor, Texas fab, 11 machinery and equipment lithography machines made The only devices in the enough precision for the massive machines made by world's next biggest Every chip in the world made few times at least. So inside this machine, you billions of transistors in wiring. Applied Materials is a key based in the U.S. and its same time as Samsung, with project Silicon Valley has Why Santa Clara? This is where the between our customers, partners. But all this growth for come without concerns. First, there's water. About 80% of Texas remains In 2021, Samsung used about to make its chips. Where will that water come periods of drought? So we have the Texas Water and legislation working on that, with a growing be able to provide for the businesses, but also for Now, what you see here are us. And, you know, we've this year in Austin, in We want to reuse over 1 this year. And we take our seriously. And even on our have starting up, our goals 75% of our water. And then there's power. Texas has a uniquely cut off from borrowing In 2021, that grid failed storm, leaving millions of causing at least 57 deaths. So electricity is the fab in a sense, right? There have been multiple has gone out and companies production. Samsung told CNBC its Taylor of advanced chip etching each of those machines is megawatt of electricity. That's 10% more than the One study showed Samsung Korea's entire solar and Already signed 12 laws to reliable, more resilient And so we can definitely here, they will have access also at a low cost. Us expansion aside, Samsung scandals at home in South Corruption charges have family in the headlines for This is real life Samsung is. It's got the whole shebang. It's got the the generational intrigue, the The most recent member of lead, Jay Y. Lee, served bribery and was officially He took the helm as October. Every major company out bend the knee to Samsung. They have to get their This is a company that at some point to get what influential and they're run And then there's the big between Samsung and Apple. Samsung was arguing that its form factor in a design rectangle with rounded Apple said that they copied got a payment from technically won. But when costs, all the fighting, a neutral zero on zero for To this day, it remains a They're supplying to Apple, with Apple. And on the flip chips, but then competing That creates a really weird At the end of the day, impeded Samsung's forward In 2022, it announced an would, in theory, put it market leader. So it was TSMC, to surpass TSMC. You know, one of the things joined Samsung is never a business. As a company, Now Samsung's goal is to leading edge manufacturing two nanometer chips by 2025 I mean, if Samsung hits leapfrog ahead of TSMC, but Tsmc is the only one that their roadmap. As geopolitical tensions Taiwan, customers are eager advanced chips beyond TSMC. Intel, the next biggest adding manufacturing new fabs in Ohio and We can't be relied upon everyday needs. And so the needs to make sure that we that we need. We learned Covid, and we shall not But as Samsung races into lose focus on legacy chips, biggest shortages during production of everything This factory that we're in factory where some people But there's no, there's no It's really full steam But now the AI boom means Chips, namely GPUs from stage. Nvidia relies its chips, giving shares of There are more and more can make memory chips and you've got to get into the logic technologies. Samsung's decision to pull more on foundry, which is means more custom chips for those driving the large There are going to be diving segment. So the AI chips, applications for think that this would place Nvidia. But the question remains, is Samsung chips and can it be Taylor says making three only the start? We currently just have one plenty of room for more. And really the what next is needs, what our customers ready to deliver and Taylor, Texas, with more investment there.