The man known to history as Josef Mengele town of Gunzburg in southern Germany. His father was Karl Mengele, an engineer, had become the proprietor of a foundry which purposes such as sawing, cutting and milling. There were seven men on the payroll of the the Mengeles were one of the more affluent Josef's mother was Walburga Hupfauer, who two younger brothers, Karl Jnr. and Alois. The young Josef grew up in a world which was It was only in the recent past that Germany As recently as the 1860s its territory was However, in 1871, these united under Prussian This severely disrupted the balance of power the continent drifted towards war. Germany formed an alliance with the Austro-Hungarian to offset the rise of Germany. At first these powers confined their disputes but in the summer of 1914 a regional dispute European war. It soon expanded to bring in countries such And so the First World War had commenced. It lasted for over four years, with Germany, Britain, France, Russia and Italy, with the The defeat of Germany brought the empire to named after the town of Weimar. More importantly a series of punitive peace of the Treaty of Versailles and these would The infant Mengele might not have been entirely impacted substantially on the Mengele household. Karl left to fight in the German army shortly left to raise the children and attempt to war. She did this with a steely determination and German government to produce a type of army a Fouragewagen. As a result the company prospered and when end of the war he was able to keep the company By the early 1920s it had become the third the whole of Germany. Extended family members were called upon to and as a result the Mengele name is very common Mengele Strasse is one of the main streets civic significance of the wider Mengele family Mengele's eldest son would commit. More immediately, what this prosperity meant financial backing to engage in extensive studies. Mengele was a relatively successful student He excelled at art and developed wide interests He appears to have favoured skiing, the town the German Alps. In April of 1930 Josef Mengele passed his exceptional grade. Initially he seems to have considered becoming dentist in the local area and that this would However, he subsequently decided that this with an emphasis on anthropology and genetics. He was clearly ambitious and his correspondence wanted to impress his family by becoming its And so it was that in October 1930 he left of Munich, the capital of Bavaria. Here he enrolled in both the medicine and in both the hard science element of medicine It was a mix of interests which would later Mengele arrived in Bavaria just as a new political its ascent to power. The National Socialist German Workers' Party and had quickly come under the control of In November 1923 this collection of disaffected the rise of leftist parties such as the Communists, the Treaty of Versailles which had brought a coup in Munich, but it was quickly suppressed. Thereafter they turned to constitutional politics at the polls, until the autumn of 1929 when, Street stock exchange suffered catastrophic a tailspin. As individuals lost their jobs and life savings and the Communists began to experience a surge As the Great Depression, which followed the early 1930s Hitler and his associates would of xenophobia and resentment at Germany's Mengele was soon involved in the political he would not become a member of the Nazi Party In March 1931 he joined the Stahlhelms, an after the helmets worn by the German army The Stahlhelms marched regularly and held But the Nazis also had an early appeal to In his autobiography written years later, university, those who had already reached success. I was not then old enough to vote. My political leanings then were, I think for . . . I had not joined any political organization. Though indeed I was strongly attracted by the National Socialists. But for the time being I remained an unorganized But in the long run it was impossible to stand should our Fatherland not succumb to the Marxist-Bolshevik This simple political concept finally became From this it appears that it was only a matter the full rise of the Nazis. By 1932 Hitler and his associates were the translated into 40% of the national vote in year. This was still not enough to form a majority in the second half of 1932. At stake was whether the country would lean the second largest political group in Germany Whichever was to seize power would probably Then, late in 1932 and into early 1933 the a Faustian bargain with Hitler and the Nazis, senior colleagues into the government in the control him and his party . It was a fatal in, the Nazis quickly set about seizing absolute A political emergency was concocted to warrant allowed Hitler, as Chancellor, to rule by Thus, in the course of just a few short months absolute power throughout Germany and established for the next twelve years. By 1934 Mengele was increasingly preoccupied subsequently recorded that they never regarded Many, however, would note that he made up ambition and hard work. His ambition had driven Mengele to simultaneously medic during the mid-1930s. It was during this time that the Stahlhelms, time, were merged with the Sturmabteilung paramilitary wing. Hitler had ordered the merger distrusting A serious kidney complaint forced Mengele leaving him more time for his studies. Overall, his studies did result in academic In 1935 Mengele was awarded a PhD for a thesis on the Lower Jaw Section of Four Racial Groups". Here Mengele argued that it was possible to their jaw alone. However, it should be noted that at this time principles and there was no overt racist or This is significant, for it suggests Mengele later would be. Having finished his thesis and acquired his working as a junior resident doctor, a compulsory a full medical licence. It was during this time, while working in Schoenbein, whom he would subsequently marry Their only son, Rolf, would be born in 1944. However, while his personal life had prospered, doctor, with its long hours and ward rounds. And he was eager to resume his studies. To that end he sought and obtained a position Institute for Heredity, Biology and Racial 1937. Here he would study under Professor Otmar and an individual who professed to be an expert hygiene'. It is to this period in his life that Mengele's his character can surely be traced. Until this point, while he had exhibited an thesis was not overtly racist. In Frankfurt he became steeped in Nazi racial to join the Nazi Party and was soon accepted In the course of the late 1930s Mengele worked reports for courts which the Nazi state was were deemed to have violated the Nuremburg had been introduced during the mid-1930s to country. This involved rather perverse medical evidence. For instance, defendants were often brought they actually had Jewish blood, and so would Laws. In some of these instances, Mengele and von of the defendant, measuring his or her nose the defendant did in fact have Jewish ancestry. There is a definite shift here from Mengele. In Munich he had used legitimate scientific which historians and other scholars have generally However, in Frankfurt in the late 1930s there based around Nazi ideology. Clearly his time at Frankfurt had brought Whatever the nuances of his actual work, Mengele's rapidly in his career. Mengele was promoted by Von Verschuer to become had been awarded his full medical degree from It is from this time that Mengele first began races being 'improved' through appropriate fully involved in the Nazis' racial ideology And politically he was becoming more and more Several months after becoming a member of the SS or Schutzstaffel, one of the paramilitary Himmler, and the one which would soon be placed which proliferated across Central and Eastern He would subsequently join the Waffen SS, work and political life were bleeding into Reich Institute and the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, study of eugenics in Germany, and as a result Nazi racial ideology. As Mengele's studies were continuing through war. It had always been the stated aim of Hitler the Treaty of Versailles and reassert Germany's While the first years after the Nazis' seizure to do so, from 1936 this aggression rapidly In the spring of that year the German army part of the country which had been expressly Versailles. Then in 1938 Austria was effectively annexed And further annexations quickly followed, the autumn of 1938, and then early in 1939 completed when Hungary and the rest of Czechoslovakia At this stage Britain and France had signalled would not continue any further, particularly And so it was that, when Germany did invade 1939, Britain and France declared war on Germany The Second World War had begun. soon engulf the European continent Mengele's impediment under the Nazis. In the summer of 1939, he planned to marry there was controversy in the run up to the had some traces of Jewish blood. Mengele enlisted the help of some well-connected which adjudicated on these matters that Irene And yet a search through records for the extended not entirely resolve the matter. Consequently, while Josef was unable to comprehensively had a small amount of Jewish blood, he was without having fully answered it. There is a dark irony here as the man who based on racial purity, was prohibited from Nazi regime that would declare his own children Mengele was pleased when the war broke out. His son Rolf would state many years later the war as a necessary struggle to reassert and downtrodden following the First World Mengele had enlisted straight away, however, and made it impossible for him to enter service German Panzer divisions were conquering Western Mengele was originally stationed at a military He remained here only for a few weeks before role as a member of the Waffen SS. As such he was given an officer's title And the next several months were spent in to the Genealogical Section of the Race and to assess the racial purity and thus suitability as German colonists in Eastern Europe. The idea here was to effectively remove non-Germans was being created in Eastern Europe. While Mengele was serving in Poland, the Nazi war effort. The initial invasion of Poland in September and occupied. Thereafter a 'phoney war' of sorts followed and 1940, as Britain and France tried belatedly attack on France. It was slow in coming and when Hitler did to occupy Denmark and Norway. But then in the early summer a lightning attack the Low Countries completely overrun in just By the end of the summer of 1940 Britain stood Worse was to follow, with Benito Mussolini's a campaign was commenced in North Africa to the British. In the summer of 1941 that possibility looked the Balkans had also fallen to the Axis powers Thus, in mid-1941 the war effort looked very government in London. began to take on an even darker hue. Confident in the fact that they would soon answer to international pressure from other party began contemplating a more stark approach In 1940 and early 1941 they were considering Europe's Jews to the East African island of open air prison, however when the North of seizing the Suez Canal diminished a much This was the 'Final Solution', the idea up and sent to the patchwork of several dozen across Central and Eastern Europe since the Here a small number of the most able bodied to produce German war materials, but most hours of arrival. This approach was ratified at the Wannsee and mass murder was soon occurring at camps Mengele would soon be posted to the latter. Mengele was to see some military action in After a protracted period in Poland in mid-1941, Flushed with success in 1940, Hitler had commanded of the Soviet Union. Operation Barbarossa as it became known would by an army. When it commenced that summer, hundreds of border into the Soviet Union. At first the invasion met with enormous success, German Wehrmacht advanced towards Moscow and However, gradually Joseph Stalin and his generals But then the Russian winter set in. The German army was unprepared for the extreme winter clothing. Consequently in the course of the winter of the German advance stalled a short distance Mengele served on this front in 1941, specifically the Iron Cross Second Class. Mengele continued to serve on the Eastern Germany. In January 1942 he was appointed to the medical This crack unit would eventually penetrate division of the German armed forces. However, Josef was kept away from the front As a medic attached to the division, he was towards the defensive lines, where the unit to leading at the front. In July the Viking unit was sent into action a vicious battle of attrition which lasted During this particular affray he received Iron Cross Frist Class, as a result of rescuing under enemy fire. Having dragged the pair to cover Mengele had He was also awarded the Black Badge for the German People. Thus it was that Mengele returned back to decorated veteran of the Eastern Front. not a result of mere chance or a reward for It is more plausible that he owed his recall Professor von Verschuer who had been appointed in Berlin in early 1942. This institute was charged with overseeing racial purity and eugenics. With the decision to enact the 'Final Solution' system there was now a limitless supply of as part of this research and with zero consequences employed in their so-called 'research'. Already in the summer of 1942 Von Verschuer, camps, had stated that he planned to take with him. Mengele was doubtlessly one of these and it Josef's recall from the Eastern Front in Consequently by January 1943, after a brief at the Institute. But he would soon be sent to the place with camp at Auschwitz in Poland. While all of this was proceeding it was becoming a sombre look at the strategic situation that Following the German defeat at Stalingrad, German armies back out of Russia. Moreover, in the spring of 1943 Britain, which its entry into the war in December 1941, had in North Africa. In the summer of 1943 a southern front was when the western Allies commenced with Operation a preliminary to encroaching onto the Italian Meanwhile the Russians continued to press and in the summer of 1944 a western front Normandy in France. The defeat of Nazi Germany by the Allies was was the speed at which the retreat of Germany would arrive to Berlin first. On that might depend much about how high ranking In May 1943 Mengele, who by now had been promoted received his posting to Auschwitz. The Auschwitz camp had started in a small however by 1943 it had been expanded into commandant, Rudolf Hoss. There were three camps. Auschwitz I was the original camp, and contained quarters and some of the earliest built detention Auschwitz II or Auschwitz-Birkenau was effectively Here Jews and other individuals who were sent and Soviet prisoners of war were murdered with the gas, Zyklon-B. The bodies were then on site. This factory of death was where over one million between 1942 and 1945. A final camp, known as Auschwitz III or Auschwitz-Monowitz for the purposes of producing a synthetic company. It was to this vast complex that Mengele arrived appointed by Eduard Wirths, the chief medical of chief physician of the Romani family camp. His role in the wider camp was varied and The doctors at Auschwitz were central to what This was a process which occurred with new When the trains of thousands of Jews, Soviet arrived at the camp they were physically examined Little did the bewildered newcomers know, out death sentences to most of them. They selected a small number of those who were sent to the labour camps, while a few to experimental research or some other reason, chambers and would be dead within hours. Mengele's detachment from any emotional Some of the doctors at Auschwitz genuinely a process which involved effectively condemning By way of contrast, Mengele would sometimes Mengele was soon engaged in other activities response to the suffering of others. This began almost immediately at the Romani first arriving there. Several weeks after he first reached Auschwitz camp. This is an aggressive gangrenous process in infection and a lack of blood supply which It affects the mouth and lips in particular. A normal medical doctor's first concern however Mengele's was to carry out experiments at the time. Patients who exhibited symptoms were isolated Most appalling, several children who had the and organs were removed to be sent back the of Graz for later study. This macabre research was still ongoing months the entire Romani camp on the night of the There were other atrocities. The camps were riddled with diseases of all and the fact that those who arrived at Auschwitz of the cramped conditions of the trains which As a result, diseases such as typhus and scarlet Mengele's approach to dealing with such On one occasion of a typhus epidemic he simply which it had been detected, some 600 Jewish This barracks was then sterilised before moving and given new clothes on arrival. The process was repeated with each barracks. Perversely, for his actions in this regard, Mengele was awarded the War Merit Cross and of Auschwitz-Birkenau. And this was not an isolated incident. There are many reports of Mengele sending chamber as a precautionary measure against He was particularly ruthless towards the Romani But surely his most brutal action was in ordering towards the end of 1944 when the camp's a day for prisoners, could no longer be sustained. and ordering other mass deaths at Auschwitz for the experiments he carried out at the Mengele treated Auschwitz as a giant laboratory he had started back in the mid-1930s on heredity In this regard he treated the inmates of Auschwitz as a chemist might treat the chemicals in He was particularly interested in people with being the condition whereby an individual His methods were often brutal. One experiment involved injecting chemicals iridum to see if he could change the colour Often after studying the subjects to the maximum would have them killed or killed them himself organs could be studied and their skeletons Perhaps the most shocking experiments involved anaesthesia. One man who had one of his kidneys removed without painkillers. Mengele is particularly notorious for his with whom he became obsessed for his study Often when 'the Selection' of new arrivals station at the camp, Mengele was on the look-out These were typically twin children who often of a pair of twins who were nearly seventy Exactly how many sets of twins he examined the summer of 1944, when 400,000 of Hungary's Mengele is said to have identified and examined In a bizarre twist of circumstances, being to an individual in surviving Auschwitz. Many who were selected in this fashion by sent straight to the gas chamber, while Mengele's all other inmates at the camps. Their heads were not shaved and they were rather than wearing the standard issue uniforms Mengele's research involved a large amount banal examinations of the twins. Witnesses later testified that Mengele was Exact measurement of the twins' skulls and One twin who survived Auschwitz later recalled eyes for approximately two hours. Such examinations could occur two or three were also taken. All of this seems to have been so that Mengele minute, might have existed between identical But there was also a much more sinister aspect Often Mengele would induce pain in one twin Chemicals were used and subjects were injected Most brutally Mengele's work on twins extended such he routinely murdered sets of twins using them. On one occasion he suspected a set of Romani killed them and performed an autopsy to confirm Mengele had been wrong in his suspicions. The children did not have TB. simple manner in which Mengele completely act of killing. First-hand witnesses from Auschwitz, including as Mengele's lab assistants, reported afterwards twins he studied and other subjects of his He would often bring them sugar or treats Yet just minutes later he could murder them Mengele was evidently so obsessed by his research conventional morality, while his total indoctrination racial hierarchy inculcated into him the idea was completely acceptable, if it could produce The result was terrifying. Here was a man who hummed Italian operas to just minutes earlier for no reason other than Consequently, it is no surprise to learn that Angel of Death', in part because of his and because of widespread knowledge of his Luckily the experiments would soon come to As the Russian advance on the Eastern Front 1944 the SS had begun dismantling the concentration obliterated. By the early winter, moves were underway to And it would eventually be liberated by the 1945. Mengele was relatively late in leaving. On the 17th of January he was transferred Silesia. He took with him extensive samples from his was left behind. His time at Gross-Rosen was not extensive again narrowly missing the advancing Soviet This was just the beginning of a continuous For the next three months Mengele moved ever By early May he was in the Sudetenland in It was here that he would have learned of April 1945 and the collapse of the Third Reich On the 8th of May, Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel bringing the Second World War in Europe to Mengele was a marked man once the war was The Allies had determined that they would itself in the aftermath of the war. But it had been agreed that those who were for war crimes and in particular those who camps would be charged for their crimes. Mengele would be among them. He knew he needed to stay ahead of those who On the night of the 8th of May, just hours back into Germany, now making efforts to disguise as a rank and file German soldier. This continued for weeks. In mid-June he narrowly avoided apprehension amongst were detained together for questioning, when his unit was arrested by an American What is striking about what happened next, his interviewers his real name. And it was even recorded as such by those it was not realised at the time exactly who of the SS and that he was the notorious 'Angel been clearly recorded by this time. In April 1945 he had been added to a list This was as close as Mengele would ever come For weeks he was transferred between detention he was released. What seems to have won him his freedom was tattoos which nearly all members of the SS Mengele had refused this in 1938 when he had That decision now brought about his freedom. He was dropped at the town of Ingolstadt in to the city of Donauworth. This was a time when Germans were still being and other Allied troops who were in every So it was, that he began to identify himself he had, which had previously belonged to a Later he altered these slightly to read Fritz Another close call in Donauworth led him to Germany. Here he finally managed to get word to his detection. Irene Mengele had already been questioned This was the beginning of a long period in in the post-war period. His state of mind was not entirely level during Bizarrely a couple with whom he stayed for that he intended to turn himself in once he he had done everything he could to improve Eventually in the early winter of 1945, he of the Alps, having returned to southern Germany. Here he worked for the Fischers under his The Fischers soon began to suspect that their would speak about the Allies as 'The Crusaders' about the post-war settlement would often Soon he was back in contact with his wife she would visit him periodically in secret. And this is the life he led for several years him. These were often half-hearted, though. Without any record of his whereabouts or sightings, same way that many other senior Nazi war criminals war. Eventually in 1949 Mengele decided to leave This was achieved using the so-called 'Ratline', to the Nazi cause who used various methods hiding out of Germany. Assisted by several individuals in this way, border in mid-April of 1949 and travelled Here he duplicitously acquired a passport Gregor and in the summer he sailed for South Here the Argentine government was particularly acrimony between the regime there and the states also viewed aiding German war criminals and its neo-imperial policies in Central and Moreover, the Nazis had shipped massive amounts advance of the war ending, and it was these after 1945. As a result, individuals such as Adolf Eichmann, and Mengele were allowed to live in Argentina It was here in Buenos Aires that Mengele first was one of gradually establishing a new life For a time he worked as a travelling salesman grown familiar with on the Fischers' farm After spending some time living with a Nazi his own in Buenos Aires. Some family funds were channelled to him in him to take a stake in a carpentry business It is also probable that he practiced medicine licence. There are records which suggest, for instance, abortions. His family life changed too. Mengele's wife Irene, despite remaining and the post-war period, was unwilling to They divorced in 1954 and Mengele remarried sister-in-law, who had previously been married in South America. Such was the laxity of surveillance of Mengele Europe during the mid-1950s to see his son, his real name. That Josef Mengele was able to escape detection owing to the fact that nobody was looking The German authorities and the Allies had This was despite coming to the attention of In 1958 he and several other doctors were professionals who had been performing illegal The episode produced enough worry though, and in the late 1950s and early 1960s he moved at one time living in Paraguay and briefly And this cautious approach led to him avoiding In mid-May that year the Israeli secret service in Buenos Aires. They had been tipped off as to Mengele's seize him too, but Mengele was in Bolivia Eichmann was brought back to Israel where of a Nazi war criminal since the Nuremburg He was found guilty and executed there in Despite the close call with being captured the fact that it was now clear to international Mengele was in fact alive and living in South shortly afterwards. Then he relocated to Brazil where he resided sympathiser by the name of Wolfgang Gerhard, a time in Italy. These were the years in which Mengele was and others sought his extradition from Latin As such it is not often possible to be sure At one point in 1962 Mossad had gathered intelligence It is impossible to tell if this is accurate where Mengele largely hid with the aid of of Hungarian expatriates by the names of Geza These helped him acquire further hide-outs 1960s. Their aid extended to Mengele assuming Gerhard's to receive medical care for a family member. remainder of his life. He eventually died on the 7th of February He had already had a stroke in 1976 and was blood pressure. His death when it came about was owing to seaside town of Bertioga in Brazil. The cause of his death is given as drowning. He had nearly reached his seventieth year, more notorious Nazi war criminals. And two years earlier, his son Rolf had visited He had not seen his father in over twenty as an adult. His impressions of his father, as recorded years after the war had ended, showed no remorse to affirm that he had done what he did at Rolf Mengele concluded that his father was There was one final twist to the story of For many years the world was unaware of Mengele's continued to make efforts to locate 'the would be brought to justice, however belatedly. It was not until 1985 when intelligence brought in his hometown of Gunzburg in Germany that years earlier. An investigation followed in Brazil to try These proved successful and it was soon revealed near Sao Paulo in Brazil under the name of years earlier and whose name he had adopted, Consequently his body was exhumed in the summer was highly likely that it was Mengele's confirmed. It was never reburied. Today the skeleton of the man who once killed their organs, is used as an educational aid Paulo. What should anyone say in evaluating a figure As we have seen, this was a heinous individual, for those whom he experimented on and murdered, as a cold effort to stop the spread of disease Perhaps it is worth assessing how he became Mengele did not become a member of the Nazi was a promising medical student who combined of human features. He was an affable character according to those that his work from these early days is not It is not suffused with racism or violence read as legitimate scientific work of the In this respect Mengele, prior to his involvement Speer, the architect who later became German Before the rise of the Nazis and their involvement with promising careers ahead of them. Neither had demonstrated any overt outward mass murder. with the Nazis and began his work into racial von Verschuer in Frankfurt at the beginning By the end of 1938 he was not only a member SS, the most fanatical branch of the various It was in this capacity that he enthusiastically of Poland in September 1939 and from the beginning racial purity. But the worst of it came at Auschwitz between in January 1945. Here, in a stretch of time, spanning just deaths of thousands of individuals and in by lethally injecting the subjects of his These same experiments ranged from the immoral sowed two people together in a bizarre test They died days later after their wounds turned Mengele was certainly a harbinger of death In the end, however, Josef Mengele escaped He spent over thirty years in hiding across returning to Europe and moving with seeming It is also striking how many people were willing crimes Mengele had committed. But he was also very lucky. In 1945 he was arrested by the Allies and the standard blood group tattoo that nearly Then he narrowly escaped arrest on several followed, most notably in 1960 when Adolf As a result Mengele escaped punishment in be forgotten. What do you think of Josef Mengele? Was he perhaps the most brutal of all the rapid change of character from 1937 onwards? Please let us know in the comment section, in the meantime, thank you very much for watching.