Hook: sponsorships. This green powder has been appearing (Show various clips). But it has a rather Greens or AG1 a daily supplement with all kinds there are also all kinds of red flags. they have strange gaps in their research, here's the truth about Athletic Greens. Setup is this magic green powder, and who is making it? In 2008 Ashenden was facing consistent health he was fit and living a healthy lifestyle. the problem. His body wasn't absorbing his immune system didn't have the strength to advised him to take 50 supplement pills... a day. but he couldn't compromise his health. he created "Athletic greens". An The goal was to simplify nutrition, to give Ashenden slowly grew the company, gradually "AG1" and soon, revenue began pouring in. In 2022 Athletic Greens raised 115 million. Some Crawford. This pushed their valuation to biggest supplement companies on the planet. effective? Well, on their landing page, Athletic Greens compare it to Multivitamins, Probiotics, and three, and much more. A way to simplify nutrition. It's supposed to improve gut health improve your focus &amp; energy, boost your But they don't want you to take poured millions into sponsorships. Big ones. podcasts, one of the biggest being Joe Rogan. He even has a testimony on their "been starting his mornings with AG1 for years." sponsor. That honor goes to Andrew Huberman. on the internet, with 6 million subscribers on Huberman is a neuroscientist and professor awards and honors. he is consistently sponsored by AG1. There's plenty more sponsorships, Alex Honnold, and actor Gwyneth Paltrow. Resolution / Payoff because of it's simplicity. It's convenient, solution for busy, health conscious people. (Show this entire TikTok). nutrition". (Show this text on screen, It has everything you need, "just in It all sounds pretty convincing. Take a scoop once it to your smoothies or just take it as water. The there's something else going on here. product it appears to be. starting with the past of Chris Ashenden himself. Setup primarily in the US, but he's from New Zealand, (Show articles: One, Two) touch on his past, using noticeably "He leaves the police force and becomes from friends and family and ends up losing and is forced to file bankruptcy. During this depressed, and drinking heavily." (Source) Ashenden is a convicted criminal. And 43 criminal breaches of the Fair Trading Act. called "Home Finance Company", with the slogan trick renters into joining his scheme, with the and eventually home ownership. in New Zealand, which had battled House prices were outpacing the incomes of many But, in reality, it wasn't as peachy as it seemed. but in the fine print, it Ashenden's company actually owned was complete. But occupants still had to cover maintenance, the entire time Ashenden somehow created a worse mortgage system. Eventually, people caught onto his scam. The New Zealand Commerce Commission charged his The judge said that his scam contained "strong exploitation of [vulnerable] people." (Source) and ordered to pay $42,764 in reparations. but the judge saw through it and his "The court has no hesitation in concluding affairs are deliberately kept complicated to the expensive to unravel them... (Source) shortly after this company collapsed. Resolution / Payoff thanks to his companies being bankrupt. Victims wonder he left New Zealand. But this history has caught up with him. So much resign as the CEO of Athletic Greens. to see what Athletic Greens actually is. health benefits, and extensive academic studies. Setup make a lot of claims, but they also And the research actually Their main study is double-blind, a lot of important practices in academic It's also peer reviewed which is a great sign. but something's off. (Their main study) main study was "to examine the multi-ingredient powder (AG1) on the gut It found that the supplementation of AG1 in gut bacteria and improved digestive quality Looking through it however shows a few issues. their willingness to comply with all aspects meaning this study was likely self-selected, is made up of those with a personal interest Also, only 30 participants were involved, but more importantly, only healthy This seems to be a theme across Small sizes like these aren't a red flag on research. They're commonly seen in initial studies The study also took place over four long-term supplement, which doesn't line up. But there's more. Research studies like these always use a placebo. the actual treatment has a tangible impact. is a common placebo to use in research studies. to cause some intestinal inflammation. In but this is exactly the focus of AG1's study. naturally going to respond that their gut aka, those taking AG1. This will This isn't a good placebo. flag. But all together it makes it hard to take share on their website, the research isn't strong. so it's still good for you Chapter 4: Reality of promises. AG1 has a lot of stuff in it. Vitamins, It's also NSF certified, so it and there's a lot crammed into this packet. vitamins and nutrients, and the reason for get enough vitamins and nutrients. Studies have shown that most adults multi-vitamins are "not associated with a Some groups absolutely have they aren't the target audience of these products. A scoop contains 467% of your recommended and 917% of Vitamin B12. better for vitamins right? Well, not exactly. has an excess, they get flushed out. That's a lot Why so much? It also contains Vitamin E which is important body stores any excess. But wait, isn't that yes but AG1 has 553% of the required daily intake. dangerous. Too much vitamin E can increase the Their website also lists a collection a lot in their marketing. But the idea of superfoods is largely a myth. dense with nutrients. They're good, but too much The Baylor College of Medicine elaborated that but they are not a replacement for A balanced diet is extremely alone will not mitigate disease." (Source) it would be much better, since AG1 has serving, and only 2g of protein. have questionable science behind them. highlighting the line "Everything else in And if you want to fact-check please check out the resources link in the red flags that aren't even covered in this video. price. How much does this magic powder cost? Take a look at this packet of AG1. About 30 $30? Maybe $50? $79 for the packet of AG1, $90 a month for a supplement, or "less Also, AG1 isn't really a product, it's more is only if you subscribe to monthly payments. it costs $99, plus shipping. Naturally, this $99 for a 30-day supplement, and unbeneficially high ingredients. Setup we've covered, the biggest problem is that a necessity by fearful marketing. Take it "just paying for such a huge excess of vitamins (Play end of this TikTok, where Tension people who could actually use the additional Healthy people who want the peace of mind that Most of the people who use AG1 need it the least. already eat balanced, nutritionally rich diets. multivitamins have been around, this "Just an industry worth over $177 billion, so these (Play clip 0:16-0:29) sure you're healthy right? It can't hurt. Medical professionals &amp; dietitians will actually certain vitamins, as they can cause all kinds highly critical of AG1. But Athletic Greens, and many supplements, them. They even have a quiz to see "if AG1 is even if you say you're extremely healthy, fit, you take their product. Grand Payoff to their brilliant marketing strategy. Instead of health celebrities and experts to create a market vision that it's the best product, and all you But when you strip back the marketing, Also, let me be clear that I'm not saying that it may have even helped Chris Ashenden himself. maybe this excess is exactly what he needed. opportunity to turn AG1 into an "all-in-one need. But AG1 is just another "magic to solve a complicated issue, like nutrition. health, who ironically, don't need it, but are $90 for green powder. Eat a balanced diet, and you're still worried, talk to your doctor.