Ryan was an amazing, amazing little boy, and we only wish she would But things changed. I grew up in what they call What that means is that we go to synagogue good. So where were we? I decided to keep a record I'm just going to talk a little What's going through my mind. Because I think that you're going I don't know why, but I just When I was growing up on the street on Shabbat, with my car. My parents really did the best They even sent us to Jewish school, We had Shabbat Friday night But on the table Have a nice day... Thank you... Hum McDonald's is the best. Yo yo yo, we love lobster in this family. Hey cheers guys. Oh, boy, look at a lobster. I went to private Jewish And you have to understand they They were Jewish schools. They separated God from Judaism. I never knew God. Imagine living a life without knowing Him, how lost you would get, how far you How could you blame me? Growing up, my father told me He always played nice. But the problems all started Ryan had some negative influences. When it came to his friends in high told me in the 40 years He never had a more dysfunctional There was a kid in our grade whose older brother And the brother figured that he was able to funnel drugs into our grade So at the age of 13 years old, my friends and I were all strung out We would start smoking once a month, And then it started every week. And then it started every day. And then it became every And a lot of people think Let me tell you something. At 13 years old, weed is a problem. Our eyes were red, everybody knew what Four, five, six years ago when he told me that I was doing this and I was, I, I just, I went to camp. I was hired as a counselor One of my jobs was to do to that interview the incoming junior All of a sudden it was Ryan's interview. He's still not there. I go. I don't think this guy's coming. I call him up. He had totally forgotten about the interview, which I was My schooling fell apart. My grades fell apart, my class fell apart, my relationships fell apart, How is a young person today in a world where there's no creator, You know, so many people are hating right You can't tell me nothing because I've lived in a world But to be quite honest, hum, he was a good guy. He recognized that there was other kids in the program that weren't And instead of him being this macho guy who was like, he actually brought a few of them under And that was something But one of the things that was a problem coming into the summer that he was So we're out for dinner, everybody. All the counselors at the camp, I'm buying pitchers of beer for everybody. I was the man doing kindness. The only problem was I was The legal drinking age is 18. I was shy by a month. I stumble off the bus going back to camp, of the camper standing there And I knew already what was happening. They said, Come here. They pulled me into their They said, You're drunk. I was a little drunk. I'm not going to lie. Ryan clearly was intoxicated, and we actually asked him if he had drunk So the director of the camp looks at me and says, OK, Steve, He cannot stay in camp tonight because I don't know what he's going to do They said, You're going home. I was so upset. What are they going to say? Another failure, another mess. Ryan is not happy about But 1:30 So what does he do? He opens the door and starts The Israeli staff pulls Ryan in to the car and the director had to power lock But the interesting thing is, by the time they started getting closer He looked at the director and said, what advice can you give me to talk to I walk up the steps to my house full of He opens up the door with a look not again. He was always in some sort of trouble. He got thrown out of camp. He got thrown off the Israel trip. Even when he ran for student counsel, he ended up screwing that and ended And all this was probably caused So I felt that Ryan was getting negatively To be honest, that was the last I had seen I came back to Montreal and it was over Everybody I knew turned their back on me, so I figured, Well, I'm the bad guy only be the baddest guy there is. So I figured let me become a drug dealer. Everybody was smoking weed. Let me supply it to them. I know somebody that I could get it from. So I started a little bit here a little to my friends and was was And then it turned from grams into ounces. And then the ounces turned And then the quarter And then the pounds turned into kilos. And before I knew it, People selling under me. I quoted him five grand. He didn't sound terribly shocked. I was starting to gain some respect back. The street was giving me the respect There were all kinds damage to a car getting into a fight. But there was always some kind of a story It wasn't a good thing I wasn't really involved in terms of knowing exactly what But I was starting to get concerned. One day I get a call from my high He tells me I have a good deal for you. I have a batch of weed that got burnt. He says I could sell it to you for half the price if you come What a deal. I hop into my car. I go grab it. And I walked outside quietly, And as I'm gently pushing they stole my keys. They stole the weed. They stole my car. Firefighter requires an external for 109 I'm saying to myself, Just hang on. After they beat me. Within an inch of my life, I had to do something because I The way that it works is you get it sell it and you bring the money The problem was, I didn't have it. But I saw a guy that was older than me. His name was Stephen, and Stephen Not only that, but he was the man. He had the girls. He had the money, he had the booze. He was the gatekeeper to the And I said to myself, Whatever So my first crack at the nightclub business was me standing on the corner And every time somebody came into the nightclub holding one I got bored of this very quickly. I picked up the phone and said, Steven, Please teach me what you know. He explained to me how to put together an event, how to market it, how to strike And within three weeks, I had set up my A week later, I had my first party there. A week later. I remember when Ryan got I thought it was very cool. I didn't know what was going on behind but I just thought that the whole thing and everybody's patting It reminded me of when I was that age. You know, the bartender was your buddy, and the And you were like, a real big shot. So, to me, when I was watching that happening, I thought it And Besides, the fact he That year, when I graduated, I was a kid. I remember taking the chunk that I owed And I said, don't ever talk to me again. You and I are through. There is no high, like the feeling when you step into a nightclub Boom Booboom I needed another gig. So I started looking for nightclubs My first big hit was a supper club And the owner's name was Giovanni. And I met Giovanni on the first night that he bought that supper And him and I hit it off. Ryan was like a little brother for me. So I tried to mentor him, Even though I mean, we were working in Craziness, I mean, Ryan was young. I was around 30... 36 or 35 or 36 years old, But, I mean, the fire We got each other. He was like, my older brother. My first Saturday night that I went to go promote there, I had about three people So we were four people. I was devastated. But the week after that, from College, and I told her, Why don't you come to Cafeteria? And when you come, I'll give you a free Between you and I wasn't champagne. It was like a $7 bottle of Prosecco, So she comes, she comes with 14 of her friends. And, Whoa, these girls lit it on fire Saturday night. We had 28 people. The next week after that, there was 150 people inside the club It was the hottest place in town. We're on that terrace, and we killed it. We showed the city that we could go anywhere that we want, and we can A legend, I mean this guy blew I mean, a young teenager I was like, wow, man, who is this guy. I mean, this is incredible. What kind of 20 year old I was so messed up with all these girls. With all these parties, with all these. My heart was so broken. But on the outside. It looked like I had everything. And I interpreted this feeling of emptiness as: I need a bigger club. I need a bigger place. I need a bigger party. So I left Cafeteria and started doing these mega events at these One of them was called Time Supper Club. There's going to be one hell of a night. We'll see And I was figuring out, I got a great idea. I'm going to start bringing celebrities to the nightclubs, and that's I'm standing here Dj Shortcut. He ain't too short, though. He's pretty tall. So I started bringing all As long as you pay them, they'll show up. One of the biggest celebrities that I Now, a lot of people watching this may not but today he's the undisputed None. The only problem was is that it Every time I had to hire a celebrity, But I wanted to be the celebrity. I wanted to get paid. So I hired a camera crew to follow Everywhere we went, every meeting with the celebrity, every time in a hotel, whatever we There's more live TV coming at you live And I was compiling this reality show. And all of a sudden, the whole city, Forgave me, for the bad They whitewashed over my past. Who cares if he was a bad kid? Now he's making us proud. Now he's putting us on the map. Our next guest, Ryan Sullman, had his own company at 20 and is starting How are you, Ryan? He is ready to retire Thank you Tell me about your more to life company. And I was working hard to compile all of this footage because reality shows You had who wants to be a Millionaire? You had Survivor. The Kardashians were very And Facebook was just So now we had the channel And for me, it was good for my business. I can't go through ya all. You heard him first, he has new socks I put together all the footage, I organized a red carpet event My parents showed up. They were so proud. The entire city showed up to this event. It was supposed to be the crowning jewel. What I had worked this whole time for the crescendo of everything I get up on stage, I address the crowd. New Montreal reality show makes a noise. And as the video starts to play, I look at myself on the big screen, And I remember at that moment I crashed every day I wake up and I'm, like, like shutting off my phone and just, like, I remember that at the launch Nobody could find him. He was there, and then he disappeared. Nobody knew where he went. I went through a rough patch Maybe I was hanging on by a string, It was not a good time. I would just want to go to sleep. I didn't want to see anyone. I felt ashamed. I left the launch of my show at who I was. I remember I went to a restaurant the launch of my reality show, I felt like when I walked in the door, raining from the ceiling I said to myself, I have to figure out a different way I have no idea what triggered my son to start looking for a It was a very big surprise to me. And in my mind. Judaism was completely false because at that time, nobody that I knew in my life kept kosher So I began to search for truth. If anybody knows Ryan, I went to go visit a mosque. And when I woke up in the morning before I and they hit it into the Happens to be the place You put your head down on the ground. But it also happens to be the place And I remember going to the mosque And I went to interfaith chapels. Whatever I could find, I was looking. I was looking for truth At that time, all of those things My mother came into my room one day and she was complaining to me There was books up to the ceiling. You could not move in my room. I was chomping knowledge. I remember when my wife, she found a Quran in his room and she and Tammy Faye Baker kind And I started getting more I started really getting into Buddhism At one point I stopped talking. I was meditating 6 hours a day. One day I came into my mother's room and told her that I would like I thought to myself, okay, And she said to me, words that changed I said, let's do this. Why don't you go to see Rabbi Moses and hear She said, before you go go to synagogue . Today, She says I would have been But that's a different story I think this was the turning So that Shabbat. I remember I dressed up in my nicest And I remember on the way The colors were brighter. The birds were chirping. As I showed up to the synagogue. I opened up the door and I walk in. And I remember hearing The Chazan, who was leading the congregation When he turned around. There was happiness pouring You know, people in the world, They're just enjoying themselves true happiness from the soul I remember. I said to myself at that moment, I have to know. And I had a conversation with him and we Shabbat and I went and I And I will learn Torah with him. He was Breslever Chassid Their stick is to go and talk One day he says to me. You come with me. And then we went right in the forest and in the forest. I told him what to do, what to do. Look up to the sky, look between the trees and just talk to him because the King is in the field. Talk to him without books, You don't need the Hebrew. You don't need anything. You need to spill your soul, Talk to him. Ask all the questions. Scream at him, ask him demand from him. Whatever you want. Go for him. Berel Solomon. I thought the guy was completely mental. I was born into darkness And this guy is telling me to go So I've gone into the car. I drove to the forest. And for the first time in my life, I opened my heart and I I cannot transmit it to you, It was like speaking everything about me. A Rabbi named Ronnie Fine would always invite me to his lunch, And I would go. I would encourage him to come by to be I recall very clearly sitting at our the desire to soak it all in. One day he invited me to go visit the resting place, And I went with him, and writing a letter to one of the leaders of the generation. And as I walked into the place where he like had never experienced before. I was still working in nightclubs at this that I needed to make a real I remember speaking to my boss one day. of Cafeteria, at at the time, and I asked him if I I'll never forget telling Ryan. I said, Ryan, man, you're a Jew. Bro. How the hell am I supposed to believe in God's given faith that we've You wear your little hat, he told me. So I started wearing my kippah It just wasn't, I wasn't into it anymore. A few days later, Giovanni picks He says, Berel, I know you There's something that's driving When I lost my job at Cafeteria, I could have gotten into despair at my friend who took over But instead of that, I looked up I don't know why. But Borouch Hashem, Thank you so much for making I hung up the phone. I whipped around my car like in a high speed chase, and I drove I said, dad, I am ready the nightlife business is no longer for me. It's not congruent with my lifestyle, and I am ready to come I sat down at that desk and I pounded and I built one of the most successful Today's Torah from the office Now. Even though things were going great and I I still had this thirst inside of me And I decided that I We had no idea what Yeshiva was. We thought it was I remember I was fighting with my family at this point and we were looking figure out what was going There was attention. I don't blame them. They didn't know what it was all about. They didn't know where it was leading to. You're making money, you're successful. And then you say, I want to go sit After a lot of convincing, my parents The human beings were constantly in the mode of creation. We constantly want to get We constantly want to strive to grow. I made a promise to myself that I want to do Late tour from the Holy City Shalom, I'm right now in the Holy city of Tzfat just riding a donkey in the middle Happiness. Happiness is the most important There's nothing more I went from the worst students in my school to one of the best I took advantage of every single second. I ate lunch in the Zahal. That's the room where you learn Torah. I would not leave. You wanted to find Berel Solomon. You knew where he was. I packed ten years of learning At the end of the year when I was done, I remember being on the plane going back to Montreal, and I was so embarrassed I had left clean shaven. And here I was, coming back with a beard. I had a big meeting planned And I remember there was big discussion in the office amongst Should we send him or not? He now looks visibly Jewish. Maybe he'll offend the prospective client. Maybe we shouldn't send him. I said to everybody and there's nothing you could do about it. I went to New Mexico to meet this was having the meeting with invites He reached across the table He says, Hi, I'm Mike Weinstein. At the end of the meeting, with Mike, and I asked him if He had no idea what I was talking about, So I wrapped up Tefillin with him and I said, Mazal tov, We ended up signing a contract right then and there for the largest deal And I came back home triumphant because I Proud Things were going great. There was only one problem. At that time I was probably 23, 24 years old. I was so lonely. Saturday nights. And here I was alone, virtually no friends, almost no community. I was sad. And it was time for me And I was going to date the Jewish way. You have to understand. I had already been divorced 20 times. If you're in a relationship with somebody, of paper doesn't mean Your heart and your mind Every time you break up, you get divorced. How many hearts did you break? you broke. Oohhh Probably she can't get over you. So I made a profile with a picture, and I wrote all the things that I was And I started getting profiles back where and the girl had written what she What type of life she was looking for. I started to go on dates with these girls, And by the time I had been on a date with She saw my picture. She knew what I was about, And if it didn't work out during the date, interested, and the girl And if the girl was not interested in me, the matchmaker would call me, After a whole bunch of these dates, Cause I felt like there might not be anybody every girl that there was on planet And I remember feeling maybe I One day I'm sitting in my parents basement to go pick it up to see if And I opened my email and I start reading. looks great. And as I scrolled down, I saw the picture, I think I just saw my wife. We got a profile from this guy from Canada, and I looked at it and I And I thought to myself, I think All right, let's roll. I never in my life imagine that I would even date somebody from Latin America, When her profile came through, I went to go tell my mother that, hey, I think I found my wife, and my mom I said, she's from Panama. My parents looked at each other like, Here we go again. I told the matchmaker Eliana was interested in me. I said I was ready for it. I booked my flight and I was off to Panama when I landed. I'll never forget this. For as long as I live. I had never been to Latin America. It was so foreign to me. There were people running There was chickens in the streets, and my Again, I started thinking to myself, I'm in a strange country, Everybody told me that I Then something happened. I grabbed a hold of myself. I said, you know what? God puts me here for a reason. He's not wasting my time. If I'm here, there's a purpose. I drove over to Eliana's apartment. I called her on the phone. We spoke for the first When I saw him for the first time, So basically, on a shadow date, there's It's just talking to each other and seeing if we could have We just clicked. They didn't have to try it just like We waited a day after that first date, And then we had a third amazing date. After, like, the fourth date. When I saw him. When we got into the car. I told him I missed you Melt me the same way that it I was ready right then It was time for Berel I would call you and text you all I came in the summer. I didn't come in the winter I did it on purpose like that. Eliana Ruchel-Lea. I'm so excited to marry you. I love you all my heart. You're Tzadika. I'm the luckiest man in the world today. I'm going to give you a good life. I can't wait to be married And we're going to make I love you so much. It wasn't long after we got married that we had our first son, Menachem, And then Shana came along. First girl, then Chaim came. I feel that he's totally And I'm thrilled with his lifestyle and it couldn't have ended up He married a beautiful wife. They're compatible with each other. He has three beautiful children, On the way. It's enlightening to me how he ended up. And also they're a couple focused on bringing people back to their So a major part of our marriage is all about reaching out to young people This is what we love. We love having people over and we love helping others. Berel and Eliana It does work that we do with the teams and the Lubavitcher Rebbe How could I make the world a better place So one of the things that I have the very big privilege of doing is I get to go and I get to run a minyan, a prayer group I get to talk to them. I get to hang out with them. I listen to their problems. I give them guidance where I can and I act as the person that I wish that I I'm sure his past has helped to get high school kids that are probably One of my staff mentioned, if I am putting Tefillin today, if I'm connected to God today, you should After working in my family business for almost a decade, I felt that it was I told them that it's time I knew that we would suffer in the beginning because always when you have she was going to struggle That's what gave me the strength. So I went out there and I started this video production company that went Thank God. And that led into so many other things. It's what led me to open up I gained this talent to help coach these people, to help them really take But it all started with that confidence business, and that's the power One of the things that people would tell me in the beginning when I was becoming and a beard and Tzitzit that I'm going to limit even though most One of the reasons why they want to work the Jewish people in a beautiful light, So my Judaism never took It only gave to me in every He is a person that is a giver, and he's using his talents in a way And he's helping people. And here we are tonight, ladies and gentlemen, at the world's Big rounds of applause. If I could leave you guys with one It says that Abraham Avinu, Abraham. His mission was not just to call out to God, but it was to cause I've been on both sides. I've experienced both worlds. And because of that, And I know both sides of the fence. And if I had one wish and one dream it would to understand the beautiful heritage, and to all the non They also have a very special gift called the Seven Noahide Laws, how to live in the way of God When you become a Baal Teshuvah, you kind of leave your past and you I remember when he was He would just cry in the middle, And he would be so grateful how he would my son's life today is the life that I had dreamed And for all my kids. Breaking rules with no one knowing No signs of slowing Hurricanes of burstin' emotion; Nightclub promotion. Drinking the potion down His soul inside is craving. Sick and tired of misbehaving 'Cause his lonely heart is crying for meaning Is racked with anxiety. Pray tell me : Why am I living ? Something is missing. Is anybody listening ? If I didn't have the religious community, I think I would just fall, be somewhere else, be a different, One of the hardest moments of my life. I was just asking God, why me? Why should I go through this? You really have to go through And now I see more light than darkness. When I was in College, Like, okay, you can keep Shabbat. But then, like, Saturday night, And then I remember I went on birthright. I came back from birthright When I saw how many Jewish people didn't Judaism in their lifetime And for me, that really touched me. Where else says, do one thing at a time. Take it easy start by going to a Minyan Then, once you're comfortable And if it's something that you It's the best part of my day I do it in privately. Hey, I'm putting on my phone now. Something that you do for yourself. I didn't know that you did that every day. Weren't you religious already? And I said, yes. But now I live with God, and that's It's your values. It's being good to the world. It's doing good for the world. About three years ago, my family I had a lot of people rally around me, and they would make sure that we would And it really gave me a sense And I decided that I would continue to light those candles for as long as ever because that's where I found As you grow up. You learn to understand that the world ain't pretty and God really provides you Me personally, I'm not religious. I'm not Orthodox, but most people don't especially Judaism has to offer, If you were to give it a shot, you learn to realize that it's Time to put the past behind. Now I'm living. All is forgiven My future is waiting. The whole world is singing. A lost boy was blessed and kissed by Hashem ! Shema Yisrael. The Kingdom is waiting You're never too old You're part of the greatest story ever told. Your life is worth living. Your journey's beginning. The Torah and Mitsvas are a Gift you've been given. No matter where you've been or what you've done Hashem he loves you like an only son So stand up tall, proud and tell the world what you came for ! So stand up tall, proud and tell the world what you came for ! Now I'm living. All is forgiven My future is waiting. The whole world is singing. A lost boy was blessed and kissed by Hashem ! Thank you for watching. You as the viewers sitting at home are probably asking yourself, And the answer is easy. I'm going to give you three mitzvoth that are probably lying around your house that will strengthen your connection And here it goes. Mitzvah number one : Tefilin ! Every Jewish man has a mitzvah to put Tefillin on his arm and on his It's an incredible mitzvah And you cannot imagine all the blessings that these things will Number two : It's a Mitzva for every to light Shabbat candles every And mitzvah number three, Can't imagine how many blessings Try to give every single day one coin in your little Tsedaka box And if you're already observant, privileged to have Teach them Torah. Teach them about mitzvot. Teach them about the beauty of Shabbat. Let's bring all of our brothers and sisters home where they belong