A special thanks to Brilliant, whose online course provided the It doesn't take much to learn that the Earth is but also represent 80% of the source of our run out - whereupon we will either need to get our the shocking reality of a world without machinery, plough all day in an agrarian society doesn't be in favour of the alternative - finding a energy needs, once the oil, coal and gas runs out. geothermal, or tidal power. But do Could the answer to the energy crisis have been talking about for over 60 years? actually build a Dyson sphere one day? And just I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. Dyson spheres, and discover how the maths make them not just possible, but actually I was recently going through an online course when really caught my imagination. Dyson spheres by British-American theoretical physicist and the way hypothetical alien civilisations might spot them. All life requires energy to live, and seems to end up needing. Dyson thought that build a habitat in space near their local star to more and more habitats would be built, until surrounded by a truly mammoth shell of habitats, the star was emitting. This shell was eventually known as a Dyson Sphere. Creating one would give sending their civilisation into the next stage Dyson got the idea after reading a something he publicly credited. And indeed, out of sci-fi. It would be very hard, and anything so large, and seems to be well beyond That said, this sci-fi idea might need to be the course I was learning from pointed out, there and we collectively use 4x1020 Joules (400 sounds like a lot, and it is, particularly when of remaining energy available in oil reserves little division, it becomes clear that we if we continue burning it at our current And given how quickly we are ramping it's fair to assume that we might run out found. I talk a little more about this Which is why finding another mass source of in sunlight, actually is quite appealing. the Sun produces a staggering amount of amount of light that hits our planet's surface you what I mean. At this distance, the energy Multiply this across approximately 1.1x1014 area as it cuts through space, then multiply (all 31,536,000 seconds of it), and we would 10,000 times the energy we are currently using assuming we could harness it. 31,536,000 s = 4.7 x 1024 J sunlight is a bit tricky to do in practice. that would make life a bit difficult for any for photosynthesising purposes. But even if we got that available energy, we would completely remove energy necessary to support a significantly larger we could sustain 40 trillion people here on Earth. how to give all those people the energy you'd to put them all. Increasing the population density 7 people per square kilometre to being 35,000 3cm2. So, making this work might be a bit of a Regardless, this does seem like a good solution to can already cover our population's needs by fully output - the part hitting the Earth - we probably However, looking to the future, that won't always actually not that far off - at least, on the scale growing at a rate of 0.88% a year. At times this let's just take a nice round 1% figure, the population size by 1% every year, the hit 8.8 billion in a decade, 22 billion in a So, what might be the solution when hypothesised alien races do, and increasing probably by building solar panels or mirrors As the course I was learning from highlighted, benefits. A Dyson sphere - or a Dyson swarm, known as - offers power that's many orders of a planet's worth of surface area. Harnessing civilisation - one that went from controlling perhaps giving us the springboard that could On the Kardashev scale - a method of measuring a energy they could potentially use - this would tip case you're wondering, we're currently only about of all the energy on the planet, while a Type 2 System. To get to a Type 3, we'd have to harness Still, the energy levels a Dyson sphere it seems silly to our current If we completed a Dyson Sphere or a Dyson Swarm, decillion Joules; increasing our energy levels by the lights on for the foreseeable future. much already at the point where we could make a sun and send it towards Earth. Or even easier, we light towards where we needed it, say an orbiting with the same end result. This might be the about how to transfer the generated electricity just send the sunlight directly to wherever it's habitability on the dyson sphere itself). Placing us, and having them be able to manoeuvre slightly implausible. So then it's just a question of how depending on what distance you created LOT of material. For instance, the course I a Dyson sphere that coincided with the Earth's of the planet even if the panels were less even if we could selectively drill out instead built the sphere at a much more distance of Mercury's orbit - then the material itself likely contains all the raw material that as we know there is no-one living on Mercury who But then the last issue to consider - other tear apart an entire planet for purely our energy intensive process. Materials have to components. The solar panels or mirrors would they need to be lifted out of Mercury's energy-intensive process. If we utilised all the and spent it all on doing nothing but lifting orbit, we can calculate how long it would take shell. We know the formula for overcoming E=3GM2/5R [where G is the gravitational constant, M is Mercury's mass, and R is its radius) J. We already know how much energy we at 4.7 x 1024 J. So then it's just a simple And voila. This process would only take a measly no energy left to support Earth's population, or all to build the Dyson Sphere... such a viable idea after all. factor into this. That's the fact that once our energy of their own to help pay the energy costs. with no additional input required from Earth, would provide energy to make a second. Then both be doubling your number of mirrors, and once you much energy you put into the system at the start, According to some calculations, Mercury would be In other words, if we started building one Ethical considerations aside, such numbers this project. Something that takes half a and the initial cost might indeed be great. to think about in terms of the best way But these are questions we're already are currently working out how to set up bases not far away from doing the same on other In other words, there really aren't very immense energy of the Sun. A Dyson of something that sounded like science something our children or grandchildren As I mentioned at the beginning, Dyson spheres started thinking about. The springboard for looking through the courses of the sponsor of learning platform that has thousands of different computing and science. Specifically, I was looking where their interactive lesson all about Dyson and even a little I only touched on. mathematics involved in Dyson Spheres and expand your knowledge in other areas in They have new lessons released every that it's easy to take it at your own in the description below to go check and the first 200 of you to sign up will get Thanks for watching. If you liked this about colonising Mars. A big thanks to my patrons the end of every Astrum video, check the links