I always thought that the jungle tribes had given up their customs. I thought it was over, but... I was wrong. It's different for the Waorani tribes In a strange part some tribes live without influence We're with the tribe. Their favorite food is monkeys. These are the Waorani tribes, their language is called Wao. We have arrived in the capital Quito, and now we are heading to the Amazon. It will take 6 hours by car We're going deep into the Amazon. These tribes are unique, We left the capital Quito for the city of Shell, which is named because they used Okay, guys, it is 6 a.m. now and we will take off It's a military airport. If we do not take this plane, the trip to the Amazon to reach our destination It cost us $1,400 for the round trip. This area of Ecuador is rich We're heading to the heart of the Amazon along the border with Peru. Look, they are waiting for us. There was a wonderful reception The plane left and left us behind. The plane will come back They use this fruit to paint their face. The first thing we did was head We left our luggage and then left. It's raining. Despite the heavy rain, they had to go get the poison from the climbing plants, and then they would prepare it This is the rainforest, this is the Amazon. We are back in the Amazon. Now they will extract the poison to use in hunting. Look where we are sheltering. They have made an umbrella This is the tree that contains the poison. He will climb the tree. There are climbing plants The name of the poison is Curare. And now they're going to take it That's a huge amount of poison. The Amazon jungle is fascinating, there are tribes spread out The black thing is the poison. Look at the amount that's enough and the neighboring villages. Now the stage of filtering the poison. It's like filtering coffee. He adds water from the top, but with his mouth They added water to this and then the poison started The poison is almost ready, However, they need an energy drink and their special drink is called chicha, so we went to get it. This is from this palm tree. They will make Cassava grows underground like potatoes and we'll harvest it now. It's very popular in South America. Cassava! Look, it looks like lungs. Cassava! Look how big it is! Cassava. That's it. We are ready to cook. Let's go. This is sugar cane. The children in this village love monkeys, however, the adults eat them. -Waorani. Then they started preparing The women prepare this drink while the men prepare the poison. They draw on their guests using a material extracted from trees. These drawings depict the river, Anaconda! They are making chicha now. Let's see. Then they boil the poison... ...then dip the arrows They will dip all these arrows They will use these weapons Look how he stacks them up one by one. They've prepared a large number of arrows. They will prepare their special drink in a way that you will not see By spitting! It's mainly a spit drink. After drinking their magic drink, we will see the result tomorrow. I think they are ready to hunt now. We have been sailing in the river trying to find a place with Will they actually catch one? The search has begun. When they make this sound, that's how they attract the monkeys here, You should be able to see through it. This is the Amazon jungle, The monkey responds to the call. Did you hear the sound? Listen. You can hear it. Can you hear it? It's calling. We just follow the sound, I've never seen a monkey That's why sometimes silence is good. This water is deep, we couldn't cross it. We've been searching for 4 hours It got shot by an arrow, the poison will spread It'll either fall or they'll climb up He's going to climb up. I've put a GoPro on his head. He's handing him the gun. When he climbed up the tree the monkey jumped to another tree, Where is it? It's time to cook the monkey. Obviously, I won't eat it, they say it tastes like chicken, He's eating its head. These are tribes fighting Thank you, Rika and David. Thank you, Ecuador.