Chances are you know Marie Kondo, the world-renowned of the hit Netflix series Tidying Up with But while fans loved watching Kondo reorganize wondered what this organization maven's home Here's what we know! &quot;Hello I'm Marie Kondo. My mission is to spark joy in the world through Kondo made a name for herself in America as on to her unique KonMari Method. The Japanese tidying expert, who developed many of her strategies on Japanese culture, The expert explained her minimalistic approach, &quot;Properties and homes in Japan are tiny! I grew up in a house where my family of five in a room of about 13m x 13m. There isn't much space for storage, so small Kondo learned to keep her living space clutter-free she explained to Good Housekeeping: &quot;Spatially, it was a big challenge after I [...] A lot of clothes and diapers and things Storage space became a big challenge.&quot; While Kondo grew up in Japan, the tidying Kondo, who believes that things should be joy&quot;... ...explained on her blog, &quot;I usually move once a year. The longest my husband and I have lived in Not long before her Netflix series premiered Los Angeles with her husband and two daughters, This is likely because the eight families around California. &quot;The point here is that I'm not gonna tidy It's everyone's job to tidy their own space.&quot; Due to Kondo's minimalist approach to cleaning, her own home is also minimalistic. But that's not exactly the case. She explained to Elle Decor, &quot;I don't have a particular decorating style, house is to have a very purified environment.&quot; That &quot;purified environment&quot; involves allowing in different rooms throughout the house, and Kondo's daily life consists of setting the for what she has. One of the places in Kondo's home where she kamidana, a Shinto household altar. Every morning, Kondo wakes up around 6 a.m. some incense, opens her windows to let in pray. The tidying expert explained to The Cut, &quot;I'll pray for the health of my family and much as possible what needs to be done.&quot; While the small shrine stems from the Shinto not a religious one, adding, &quot;This is not a religious thing really at all. It's just for me to take this time every morning It's a practice I started when I was still Since launching her KonMari consulting business as well as more than 200 certified KonMari &quot;This is a very deep process, no matter what.&quot; But, surprisingly, the decluttering queen Instead, Kondo works in a corner of her house, &quot;I don't have a separate room that I use as antique desk and chair, that I use for work.&quot; The business-savvy mother of two usually works a little vase of flowers or a scented spray She told the outlet, &quot;For work, I like a scent with a mint or a So I'll spray some of that and then get started Many of Kondo's clients seem to particularly &quot;I don't know what it is about the kitchen, It was really after I had kids that everything do all this.&quot; But Kondo herself doesn't need a lot of help she doesn't own a lot of cookware to begin She told Bon Appetit, &quot;The last thing I KonMaried from my kitchen I have the opposite problem. I always have very few items in the kitchen, Recently I've replaced my cutting boards [with] from Gingko trees. I'm also in the market for a big, sharp knife.&quot; In the KonMari Method, kitchen items fall for organizing kitchen clutter isn't as detailed However, as with the rest of the areas in that spark joy. You probably won't be surprised to find out cups of tea each day as part of her routine. Kondo told The Cut, &quot;I probably have about 15 different kinds Kondo utilizes her tea time as a needed break with an additional cup after completing a She told the outlet, &quot;I drink multiple cups of tea a day. So that will be my break. After I've accomplished a few things or start cup.&quot; Some of Kondo's go-to teas include green tea, at breakfast -- per Bon Appetit -- and and at night. According to Kondo's website, her tea drinking was introduced to the Japanese tea ceremony As part of Kondo's popular decluttering method, the beauty in the world around them. &quot;And you'll begin to create...the life you've Kondo can often be seen expressing her gratitude because it's one of the things that brings One can only assume, then, that the tidying over her house! Kondo explained to The Cut, &quot;Before I go to bed, I'll go around the house I have flowers all over the place.&quot; Along with filling her home with colorful to fill any hotel rooms she checks into with joy while traveling. The mom also includes her family on her flower and she fills her yard with plants. For real, her home must smell amazing! After Kondo's series premiered on Netflix, expert's decluttering tactics. But some took issue with her rule that advised On her show and in her book, The Life-Changing and Organizing, Kondo advocates for tossing life. And for Kondo, having 30 books in her home While her comments were met with criticism, there may have been a misunderstanding regarding &quot;I do think there are misconceptions. I think this occurred because in one of my through my books I had about 30 books left. Maybe misreading there.&quot; Earlier that month, Kondo shared with IndieWire, &quot;So it's not so much what I personally think The question you should be asking is what Everyone has a habit they can't break -- even While most of her philosophy revolves around the soft-spoken organizer can't follow her In an interview with The Guardian in 2018, &quot;I love wearing slippers, but I take them can't keep them on for long, so they're scattered.&quot; In Kondo's perfect world, she makes sure to home before slipping on her comfy slippers. She explained to People magazine, &quot;When I come home at the end of the day, I storing them in the closet near the entryway I then change into my house slippers.&quot; In between running a decluttering empire, her own Netflix series, it's understandable on occasion. Still, we doubt her home ever gets too messy. &quot;Is your home tidy?&quot; Sorting through sentimental items can be the is why she recommends saving that part of In the episode &quot;Sparking Joy After a Loss,&quot; -- a journey which included sorting through &quot;I don't wanna just y'know dump it. I wanna be thoughtful about it.&quot; Along every step of the way, Kondo explained you&quot; to the personal items, before discarding &quot;It's just kind of a real jolt to see all that he had, and they're all now in a pile While Kondo is a pro when it comes to helping reluctantly admitted to her inability to get Good Housekeeping, &quot;So [...] I have this stuffed seal. It's very small. It was a gift from my father, and even though It's something I can't part with!&quot; So, you'll find at least one stuffed animal Displayed properly, of course. Kondo is a successful mother of two lively maintain her tidying business while raising &quot;Explain to your children what you're doing, Often traveling for interviews and public memories of her girls on her phone when she But Kondo also likes to have physical photos her writing space at her home -- because, [her] energy.&quot; She described the two pictures that, quote, heart.&quot; They are of her younger daughter smiling from of her oldest daughter. As Kondo wrote in an Instagram post, &quot;My children show me how joy manifests itself Kondo's home features many items that spark After all, it's important for her to create But in order for Kondo to get any work done, &quot;Crystals. Yeah that's crystals, my mother gave them Do you have a collection too? Yes.&quot; One of the things she surrounds herself with, As she told Variety, she likes to place a places larger crystals around the room. She uses the crystals to cleanse the air around her hit book. She explained to Variety, &quot;I am usually writing about how to spark more around us spark more joy, so it's very important joy for me.&quot; Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more List videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the