Hello friends. Wishing you a new day with lots of joy and peace in your life. If you have orchids with rotten leaves like this, don't throw them away. They always contain a lot of fungi and bacteria. Please separate these orchids from healthy plants because fungus and bacteria will spread very quickly if this leaf is still green and healthy. Today I share a very simple and easy way to do it. Helps the tree revive faster. Wet water is one of the reasons why all the roots are damaged and rotten, affecting the trunk of the tree. Cut this horizontally, it will damage the trunk. The leaves are dry, cut them until they are green and remove these leaves from the tree to clean these parts. This method will help keep this part from getting fungus and not rotting during the process. To restore, you need to prepare a basin of water. Wash this leaf thoroughly with the orchids. When you do this, it will help make the leaf cleaner and these black parts, if not cleaned, will be damaged when restored. It will affect and cause the plant to get fungus and lead to the leaf rotting. Use a clean towel and wipe on both sides of the leaf. Although this method is simple , it will be very effective. If you do not clean it, the An orchid plant like this will be very difficult to recover, although the leaves are still very green, but the resistance of this leaf will be very poor, the roots are still very fresh, the plant will be revived very quickly using rice containing many minerals, helping For orchids to root and develop faster, use 3 spoons to add 500 ml of water and filter this rice water, wipe the leaf, it will add a lot of nutrients through the leaf to help the leaf recover from damage. fungus, avoid insects, remember to wipe both sides of this leaf. When the leaf is cleaned , the stomata will be opened and the plant will receive nutrients in the air very well. Add rice water here and soak. like this for 25 minutes use the remaining rice water to care for other orchids spray directly on the leaves in the morning, it will add a lot of nutrients to help the leaves always have their color Green plants increase resistance , you will have greener orchids with healthier leaves and flowers will also bloom more beautifully and brilliantly . Apply this method every 14 days and it will protect you. protects the roots well, orchids cared for in this way will grow very sustainably over time. After 25 minutes of taking them out, plants that are still green and healthy like this will be revived very quickly using garlic to care for orchids. , you need to use garlic, it will help you a lot, apply it here to disinfect and garlic will also help the orchid's roots to recover very quickly. If you don't do this, when you recover, This part is very susceptible to infection and leads to rot. Leave it in a cool place for 24 hours . After 24 hours the orchid's base has dried. If it is not dry, you can leave it for another 24 hours using a plastic bottle. And a piece of soft cotton will make it easier to absorb water. Put it here and fix it. You will put the leaf in and add water. The water will not touch the base of the plant. This part will be sucked up. Help keep the base of the tree moist, place it in a dry, cool, well-lit place. Check to add water. Use water to mist the leaves every 3 days and we will wait for the tree to revive for the following results. In 45 days, the roots have developed very well with this method. One of the very simple methods for you to help orchids revive and develop healthier roots. I always share many ways, you can You can see and choose the appropriate methods. The roots will always grow very well when you put them in water. It will always help the orchids grow healthy roots. At this stage, you will be very assured to plant them. again helps orchids grow faster when in the outside environment the leaves are very green, strong and healthy, the young leaves have grown very green, one of the great solutions to help orchids grow and develop. revive the roots faster. Now we will replant this orchid. You will replant it with pine bark. There are always different ways that require you to have patience because for orchids there is always Some plants are very fast and some plants are very slow , so with these methods, if you persevere, you will achieve better results. Don't forget to like, share, subscribe to the Channel and press the bell to follow along. Hello and see you again. Wish you always success