So, this happened. Oh, sorry. This happened. Bambu Lab, after seeing my evil plan to experience their flagship product an X1-Carbon Combo on one condition. Despite the fact that I generally don't and I prefer to share my feedback as critical, they absolutely insisted both about them and their product. Well, I've been playing around with while now, and I have to say, Just like all of you. I've watched literally every video Bambu Lab X1-Carbon, the P1P, and So as a latecomer, by the time I that I would know everything that and yet there were a lot of things Things that I couldn't believe And in this video, I'm going Who knows? Maybe even those of you who own didn't notice these things. Let's find out. Let's talk texture. Unboxing the X1-Carbon, there I'd seen folks talk about unscrewing they even had implemented the feedback by putting red stickers to highlight The quality, as you've already heard The fit and finish, look, Here's one thing that There's no textured plate included. It seems silly, but it wasn't actually just thought that they would include popular textured plates have become. Of course, Bambu Labs will sell you a PEI one for $30 to $35, and of course, right in the box alongside the cool So you really do have everything much any material out there. But I guess I just thought that I get it. I mean, the X1-Carbon is really And I guess in engineering you tolerances, so that's probably why plate and this flagship one doesn't. But personally, I definitely prefer 3D prints, and not having that I definitely don't think, by the squeeze an extra 35 bucks out of you. Bambu Lab doesn't seem like that kind replacement parts are on their wanted to hit a certain attractive extra plate would've gone over cost. Still, it might just be a good idea the engineering plate for a textured a dropdown on the sales page or write shopping cart that lets me add it to me that if I want the textured plate, Though, if I were Bambu Lab, I might for $1479 and including the build plate. It's still thousands of dollars Oh, and while we're at it, Still a nice, attractive number and But hey, maybe these recommendations those of you in the US who get free going to be a lot more of a hassle parts if I decided I want them later. So I prefer to get everything I could that feedback with a grain of salt. The software is deeply integrated. With the printer out of the box and set to get going and that meant downloading also the Bambu Handy app for my iPhone. As a side note, it's still mind blowing as to have dedicated, good iPhone apps for I mean, my Prusa MK3S+ doesn't app ecosystem baked right in. But I guess the app thing won't already seen other reviews. Anyways. Immediately though a few things did anyone else talk about, and they're As I'm going to talk about maybe the next one, we'll see. Bambu Lab's ecosystem is a &quot;walled to that in detail later because I trade-off that Bambu Lab has made, But for now, suffice it to say that other software such as OctoPrint least not in the foreseeable future. Now, Bambu Lab has solved this in They just built their own software, but clever that I seriously didn't expect. They made an all-in-one suite. Allow me to explain. Of course, I'd seen online that which is a fork of Prusa Slicer, I mean, lots of manufacturers do that. Creality and Sovol have This is great because it means that based on the machine itself. For example, telling you if you're for a specific type of material. But Bambu took it one step further yet seen on any consumer 3D printer. They built the printer management This means that, unlike with my Voron, my I need to have the Slicer integrated to to access the actual printer interface, monitor the print, with Bambu Slicer it's all built into one app and I just print or make adjustments in real time. This, of course means that I'm missing upgrades, and I definitely miss some objects or a way of, say, integrating my But like I said, more on that later. There's a learning curve. Okay, great. So it's a fork of Prusa Slicer already know how to use it. Right? Wrong. Personally, I was reasonably overwhelmed Bambu slicer, which isn't to say that it is not the same old familiar In terms of user interface, it's somewhere leverages tabs both on the top of the They're all the same things that you're a little differently with different names. Instead of layers and perimeters, into quality and strength. If you wanna find the list of objects than always being front and center. Add instance and set number of instances sure if that would push the changes that There are places that you would which aren't actually clickable. Keyboard shortcuts that didn't make that I haven't seen before, and a you're going to need to get into. All of these things are You'll figure it out. In fact, I think a lot of them might even I'm just saying that if you are already Slicer like I am, don't expect this to it will take some time for you to really It does most things for you. Okay, cool. So I finally figured out the slicer and and of course me being very impatient, I didn't just go about it does take only 16 minutes to do so. No, no, no. I decided I was going to print dual Voron using the notoriously tricky ASA. Immediately I realized something It kind just does everything for you. Of course, I'd seen that a big selling calibration, and bed leveling, and that it did its own input shaping and the beginning of every single print. But because this was my first time unit, what I didn't consider was just how much other stuff Here's an example. We all know that one of the humdrum and unloading filament, and even with on printers like the MK3S+, you still in the filament, cut the ends to be printer, tell it whether or not the And I never realized just how tedious until I use the X1-Carbon Combo. Sure, you have to push the filament after you do that, it kind of just It preheats based on whatever filament It cuts the filament, it cleans the nozzle, it unloads. All you have to do is choose part, or for which part of the Now, this means that even if you printing or if as you'll soon see big fan of wasting so much plastic, you could just load up your foremost used annoying, preheating, unloading, cutting, So you can just kick back on the and wait for your print to be done. Now this is great, not just for the that I won't have so many little my office when I go back in there. It poops. A lot. Now, this doesn't come as a surprise, much because in the first video I ever Printing Nerd, memorably described this the back as it purges for color changes. So I knew what to expect. When I didn't expect, though, was just how I mean that in both senses of the word. First, I didn't realize just how a simple multicolor print, but also default on every single filament change. It's really cautious to avoid color samples, which clearly show just how after the color has already changed, and This inevitably means that a lot of the Slicer to purge into infill. This is of course, something that you know where to look, but I worry that Now, judging from their website, friendly company, so one recommendation little bit of intelligence to the even if it's optional, to They could, for example, offer to vary the if I specify two very different colors as opposed to just black and gray. Or they could allow me to enable a first filament change, asking me to and calibrate for more or less purge. Sure. This might seem like a small thing or And yeah, it'll probably save you only But at the volume that Bambu Lab and the number of material changes need to do every single print, this of millimeters of filament saved And I know Mother Nature would It doesn't mess with trees. Speaking of Mother Nature, while we're fancy schmanzy AMS, there's one thing especially if you like me, love these Overture, and it's this, the AMS is They just don't work in there, period. They won't spin properly. Now, this is kind of a bummer because re-spool your filament onto rolls that I imagine that the majority of people that would be really nice to see. Fortunately, the 3D printing community has just 3D print little rails that go right So no worries there. And long-term, I do hope to refill spools like Bambu Lab. Hey, editing Jonathan here. So I just wanna mention to all of you that Bambu Lab has already fixed some of the some other content creators like NERO 3D literally already been fixed by Bambu. So hats off to them! It's amazing how fast they are fixing creators like myself can bring them fact that when they say they're giving the feedback, they really mean it. So kudos to you guys at Bambu Lab! But there is one issue that I don't think it's this: this freaking printer is so literally ran out of things to print, thangs.com for making this video possible. For those of you who don't know, engine that searches all the different from Printables and Thingiverse, But it does a whole lot more than that technology that will scan the geometry models that are geometrically similar. And this is super helpful if you looking to print a lot of cool. stuff. They also, for my gridinity peeps, just website which will become the home and they search all the different websites out find the exact model you're looking for. Now they have a lot of other features version control, really, they're looking Really, I think it's amazing what Thangs for supporting this video. Make sure that all of you click It's completely free, and you can Thanks to Thangs for supporting All right, let's get back to the Bambu. All right. We've already gone longer than I know and next week I'll come back with all conclusions, and a few other things that know if you are taking an interest in By the way, I wanna thank each and helping me get closer and closer to It actually took me over an hour all this lighting, and I'm not even go do other camera angles, and that time that I'm not spending creating My dream is to have a studio near my where I can just have my lights set up permanently, so that all I need to do when If you wanna help me make that a which is linked in the description below. I give all kinds of really cool exclusive the ability to watch my videos ad free, and lots of behind the scenes content. Either way, thanks for watching. Make sure you're subscribed turned on so you don't miss next and until then, happy 3D printing!