The Southeastern Balkans have always and this was true in Antiquity. The region the birthplace of Orpheas the Musician, Protagoras known for its local inhabitants, the Thracians. were seminal protagonists of ancient history, from some of the most incredible archaeological we will investigate the history of this ancient magnificent treasure hoards, and their endless were the Thracians? What Gods did they worship? Scythians, Celts, and Greeks? Welcome to our The name Thrace is of unclear origin. In Greek Thrax, the son of the War God Ares However, and the region they came from originated from there is a modern region of the Balkan known Greece, and Turkey. In the archaeological material culture appear in this region, but they Northern Greece, and the country of North Bithynia in what is now the northwest of Turkey ancient Thracians. We must also keep in mind that have been the word the Thracians used to identify not a homogenous cultural group and boasted exists in the accounts of ancient Greek historians Thracians as being divided into multiple tribal culture whose presence in the Balkans lasted for Late Antiquity. However, aside from a few scant very few primary sources on Thracian history history survives through us almost exclusively Archaic Thrace: ancient people, whose origins are unclear, but Archaeologists have found tablets from the Bronze discussing trade with the region of Thrace, world was very much in contact with the region as artefact vessels from Bulgaria dating to present. It's not fully clear if Thracians but archaeologists think it's likely that their period . It is unclear if the earliest ancestors from elsewhere. Some historians claim they may southern Ukraine and Russia, but none of these clear mention of the Thracians as a people comes of the Trojans, so we know the tribes were The Thracian peoples have long been hypothesised throughout antiquity, inhabited the region which whether these two peoples were of kindred the Thracians were a culturally dynamic drawing influence from the various other began to appear in the region of Byzantium and direct contact with the Thracians who lived in trade and cultural exchange between the frequency of Greek amphorae in the region's Herodotos, anthropologist extraordinaire of the customs. According to him, Thracian men practised died, his favourite wife would be killed to follow Greeks, the Thracians had the stereotype typical of Greek arrogance, were considered despite the Hellenes' apparent low opinion of influenced by Thrace in cultural terms. cults from Thrace, like that of the mysterious milieus , and later on, the city of Phillipi Aulomanteis, a deity of Thracian origin. Some Macedonian design , suggesting strong cultural peoples. Beyond their cultural connections ties to the various peoples of central Europe, steppe. Unlike the Greeks and their polis-based people. Common people lived in smaller, rural Classical Thrace: the Archaic society of the Thracians, we will arrival of Persia and Athens in the region. Much with a reckoning in the 5th Century BCE as the of Persia rolled in. The Persians conquered the rule over the Thracian people. In fact, it was failed invasions of both Scythia and Greece. nobles began adopting elements of Persian culture. show Persian animalistic tropes like Griffins. happily accepted the rule of the Persians. While Persian control, the hinterlands were hotbeds rule. Both Mardonios, the Persian general who the Persian King who fought at the Battle of way to Greece, and both ended up escaping there While the Thracians were under Persian rule, they Greeks, especially with the city of Athens. spent some time in the region, and by the Hellenizing and Persianizing. Thracian wives aristocrats, and the Thracians living along the extraction, and transportation of both As Thracian elites gained power through their they developed the influence to conquer and region. This resulted in the rise of the Thracian The ancient Greek historian Thucydides mentions was named Teres and that he had a daughter whom the more well-known Sitalkes, further expanded was an Athenian ally, and when Athens went to the Thracian King invaded and pillaged first phase of the conflict. After Sitalkes power. Seuthes was less of a war hawk than his wealth of the Odrysian Kingdom via integrating the foreign affairs. Despite this, Athens maintained his reign. This was evidenced by the famous region and trying to liaise for an alliance to Wars. Seuthes I was the king that Xenophon, the travels back from Asia Minor to Greece, one stop members-only series on. After Seuthes I's death of Kings who presided over short and uneventful Kotys came to power and empowered the Odrysian authority once more. This also meant trying which sponsored counter-factions in the court. during a factional struggle, causing a dynastic disarray. This happened at the worst possible Hellenistic Thrace: the Odrysian Kingdom broke down into the opportunity for their neighbours, the to intervene politically. The breakdown developed attempted to back a king called Kersebleptes these allegiances were fickle, with both regional Greek benefactors. In the Thracian War of Thrace a Macedonian vassal state, expelling the Thracians rebelled against Macedonian rule, Great, to embark on a campaign into northern remained under Macedonian control before he After the death of Alexander in Babylon, became the satrap of the region and would of the Diadochi, as the former generals of of the massive Eurasian Empire they had helped easily dragged into these geopolitical shenanigans leadership of a native King, Seuthes III, who independence in the Thracian hinterlands with the Lysimachos fought various wars with the all the way to the 280s , when he died in battle Koroupedion. No sooner had the Thracians thrown people arrive in their native homeland: the Celts. cultures was fierce and bloody, characterized by admixture between the two peoples prevailed Kingdom of Odrysian Thracians seems to have once while, they continued to contend with Hellenic God-Emperor of the Seleukids. Various Thracians and the historical record is patchy. Eventually, Thrace allowed for the re-assertion of native Thrace. However, Macedon continued to invade Hellenistic Era, the Thracians had been pulled in all directions by many different across the Adriatic Sea, a certain Latin rise above all the competition, and Roman Thrace: fray of Balkan geopolitics mainly through Greece 146 BCE and, consequently, parts of Thrace. Some from the very beginning, while others decided themselves from invasion. Interestingly, Spartakos was from Thrace. Born into a enslaved by the Romans, only to later escape organised a slave revolt that led to the Third the revolt being crushed by Marcus Licinisu Roman control in Thrace was strongest along as client kings under Roman suzerainty and proved Rhoemetalces, even fought alongside Eventually, the efforts of both the Thracian Kings by fighting the Romans and those who had attempted them were both proven to have been in vain. Rome making it an Imperial province in 46 CE. His this by incorporating the Thracian hinterlands continued for centuries and presided over the Although the rural lower classes were slower to and language for far longer. Rome utilized Thrace a fact which led to mass infrastructure in the region. Throughout Thrace, Roman estates while roads and towns like Philippi which caused an influx of native Thracians to Before long, Thrace had become a core various important Roman citizens of Thracian with Thraco-Romans like Galerius and Licinius as rowdy warriors and angry people and eventually ascend to Emperorship in Thracian Culture and Religion: religion of the Thracians. Greco-Roman stereotypes but they were far from unsophisticated profligates by archaeologists, appears to have featured heavy streets. Additionally, the city is replete with ornaments, a testament to the industriousness visible individuals of Thracian society in the dromoi, or small pathways, leading to large mounds with animalistic and equestrian themes. Often, of beeswax; which was a staple ingredient of both Thracian wealth for patronage of art and Equestrian culture, seen in the Thracian horseman that Thracian culture was heavily impacted by the Thracians also appeared to have worshipped been lost to time. Unfortunately, very little language besides some words , it can be surmised family and distinct from Illyrian, another Thracian religion is very interesting in its own musician Orpheas hailed from Thraces. Herodotos Zalmoxis, who the Greeks claim was once a mortal Modern scholars note that Zalmoxis's rituals had were regulated by some sort of shaman priests, The popularity of the images of Dionysos, neighbours suggest that ritual beliefs about Herakles, madness as represented by a Dionysos sky of a god like Zeus were prominent among Other Gods like the aforementioned Bendis Thracians. Another noteworthy Thracian God Phrygians. From what modern scholars can tell, and was of paramount importance for the Thracians. mythical links of Orpheas to the region. His Roman hybrid cult that syncretized him with the God mainly by pagans sympathetic to Judaism, but far from being a peripheral people in the grand major contributors to the tapestries of both Late Antique Thrace: Thrace found itself next to the new capital of centuries, the Romanized Thracian peoples went such as the Crisis of the Third Century, the most important sociopolitical shift they Christianity became the official and due to its proximity to Constantinople, and was one of the first provinces of the Roman At first, the Christianization of Thrace occured regions remaining faithful to Thracian, Roman, as the economy of Roman Thrace was centralized importance, Christianity's foothold in Goths and Huns further accelerated the as farmers in the countryside fled the wrath of the twilight of Eastern Roman rule in the region, its indigenous peoples having absorbed living alongside both the descendants of the Celtic and Scythian populations who had been Eventually, the region became more and more a new people descended on the territory: the Century CE, but we should not assume they merely Latinized, or Hellenized into the present they had already incorporated much of their while maintaining their own distinct flair. As the as a region shifted into a new cultural mosaic. 7th Century CE still had Thracian populations indigenous Thracian deities like Zalmoxis, Bendis, and Turkic Gods, while the Holy Trinity also memory and contributions of the Thracians would be Conclusion: Century CE and the full Christianization of the leaving us only with the geographical name of Turkic groups in the region formed the tapestry and Romani peoples that inhabit the region today. their treasure hoards impress us to this day. The their own right, are testament to their ingenuity neighbours. Seuthes III and Spartakos still loom and industrious, ensured their culture would cults of Zalmoxis and Sabazios are long-gone, the and cultural contributions that perfume Balkan More videos on the lesser known peoples and way. To ensure you don't miss that, make sure you Please consider liking, subscribing, commenting, have started releasing weekly patron and YouTube ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals