A German Air Force plane Its secret mission is to carry out and transform the skyline of New York It could've happened on September 11th, half a century before that date into our collective memory. This film reveals for the first time Hitler's secret plans He was a dreamer of considerable ability. He dreamt of a lot of things. I'd do as much damage as possible, and the other side Hitler's engineers worked feverishly to develop innovative weapons Does constructing weapons There is no taboo that remains unbroken. It would've been feasible to go on suicide missions. We were willing to fly any mission, but we did hope to have Hitler's insane dream to bring the superpower Terror. I'll 100% lay my own life on the line if it means I can kill I think he dreamt of the whole city just... disappearing in a firestorm. It's 1937, and Hitler has been in power The scenario of a coming world war Hitler begins seeking contact It will play a special role Arms deals worth millions are at stake. Augsburg, November 23rd, 1937. On this date, Hitler paid a visit Willy Messerschmitt, one of the leading airplane engineers realizes which way the wind is blowing. Whoever can deliver for the wars he is planning to wage stands to win the race At the end of the day-long visit, Messerschmitt leads Hitler He stands before an enormous Hitler is impressed. Messerschmitt explains to him that this is an airplane Hitler was not an aircraft engineer, so words or stats couldn't persuade him, You can have this, After all, the best method to buy something is a mockup. The dummy of the long-range bomber From then on, Hitler believed against the United States. However, it was still too early so Hitler attempted into thinking it had nothing to fear. He was a wolf in lamb's clothing I give you my word that all reports about a planned invasion of are crude deceptions or outright lies. Hitler's word was not considered reliable. So in spite of telling Roosevelt that he'd never invade no one believed him. This was not a coin that had much value. The White House took the threat The US military sketched out A transport zeppelin could carry to bomb New York. On September 1st, 1939, As a result, England and France The raw materials they need are supplied The shipping routes in the Atlantic German submarines Hitler expressly forbids his navy Under no circumstances does he wish not until he has finished preparations Meanwhile, the German industrial base The engineers Many of them take the initiative and begin developing weapons including those to take place Messerschmitt Project Office, Willy Messerschmitt orders his engineers based on the mockup of the Amerikabomber. Messerschmitt is putting He knows the only way in the race for defense contracts is by being the first for his attack on the United States. The problem is that never before in flying across the Atlantic and back At that time, it was not possible for us to fly our planes from America to England. They had to go from America, So the extent to which to go all the way to America would've been very difficult. As far as I know, and a load capacity of three tons. That was something no other airplane but the Me 264 was very close In the meantime, Hitler and Goring to sending bombers directly from Germany They planned to conquer Iceland, which could serve German bombers would then be able That would've enabled him between Europe and America, The distance would've been shortened by That means if you have a base there, and make repairs. It would be like a land-based It all made sense. In war plans, you plan everything. Then comes the problem of priorities. Do you have the ability, Do you have the resources to do it? Are those resources being used Hitler orders Admiral Raeder, The invasion plan is codenamed Icarus. American intelligence agents but Washington foresaw and Roosevelt beat Hitler to the punch. He succeeded in stationing It was considered a possibility You don't have to know their plans, you can figure out and therefore With the war between military strategists Roosevelt began probing Congress, looking for a political majority The American public was split between An unusual demonstration was held There was an enormous number of Germans who were pro-Nazi They were playing on 86th Street the movie about the conquest I think it was called Sieg im Westen. There were pro-German demonstrations, which was the center There were a lot of Irish and there was a large portion who did not want America At the grassroots level, the Deutsche-Amerikanische Bund was active For the FBI, members of the group, were considered potential agents of Hitler and therefore a threat In one famous case, they succeeded Using a hidden camera, the FBI filmed German agents and showed the film Walking into this trap a leader of the spy ring He is removing diagrams of the M1 rifle, and a late-model plane, The important-looking man who worked In these pictures, Kleiss has brought to Sawyer showing the plans However, not all of Germany's spies They were able to scout out potential Plans were created specifying which American industrial plants in order to prevent the United States Now the Reich's Air Force Ministry for the Amerikabomber. Messerschmitt has achieved his goal. He is expected to deliver Washington, September 11th, 1941. The White House knows nothing Roosevelt announces to the people that the greatest danger Within the past few weeks, a discovery was made within easy range of the Panama Canal. Colombia is not that far off There were probably some plans, I don't think Roosevelt that he could enter A possible bombing attack A &quot;possible&quot; could not be used I'm sure Roosevelt was looking In his search for a reason to go to war, Roosevelt attempted the extent of the threat Conspiracy has followed conspiracy. His intrigue, plots, machinations, and sabotage in this New World are all known Paranoia has always been a disease that arises very easily I'm sure there was The paranoia was so widespread that Washington ordered to prepare blacklists Several thousand of them by South American governments Pearl Harbor, December 7th, 1941. Japanese aircraft attack of the United States in the Pacific, killing more than It was the first time within its own territory. A traumatic experience in the political views Pearl Harbor, from one day to another, There was no longer any doubt. Don't forget that up until then, for and against. The minute we were in the war, the Americans no longer had an argument. The decision had been taken. As a consequence of the Japanese attack, Hitler also decides This was a development no one He had enough enemies and problems. He had enough fronts to fight on. It was surprising even to us. I think Hitler thought, seeing the Japanese war machine, America would be so busy with the Japanese that they could not devote It must've been clear to every adult but there was a lot of enthusiasm. Then, after Russia, Hitler now unleashes In the German parliament, the Reichstag, he vilifies the American president We know what power stands It is the eternal Jew who sees what we have already witnessed and what everyone had to endure there. We have now become acquainted The president of the United States himself That speaks to his intellectual ignorance, but we know that this is the objective Even if we were not allied with Japan, we'd still be well aware that the intent of the Jews is to destroy one nation after another. The new enemy is now called America. Hitler instructs Goebbels to begin a propaganda offensive A simple message is to be The United States of America ruled exclusively by monetary greed. The stock market of the addiction to money and power. This is where the hard work is converted into easy profit. This is the world they're fighting for, and that they want Spat out of the ghettos of the East, they reappear as thieves and criminals They've doffed their kaftans Disguised, they can stick In no time, they've stolen enough The Nazis maintained They were running the banks They claimed Roosevelt was Jewish too. In response to the German propaganda, Roosevelt commissions Made for American audiences, they present a drastic view Conquer Eastern Europe, Conquer the heartland, Conquer the world island, In Aryan fertility camps, babies were being produced at the speed The children from this assembly line to be scientifically trained for conquest. They said Hitler's declared objective was Every day in all German classrooms... Adolf Hitler is our savior, our hero. He is the noblest being For Hitler, we live. For Hitler, we die. Our Hitler is our Lord, who rules a brave new world. There's growing fear in Washington from the many ethnic Germans Roosevelt decides to put They're sent to internment camps built especially for this purpose If you didn't voluntarily come, This wasn't a concentration camp. This was a detention camp supervise you and make sure in destabilizing the country. You were an enemy alien. It was under the Geneva Convention. Germans were not the only ones interned. Japanese nationals were also detained. They spent the duration as next-door neighbors The American government was satisfied It took away a destabilizing element You didn't have people rooting for Hitler That certainly contributed to the peace While America was busy the German Air Force still had no planes Goring began pressuring and deliver the Amerikabomber but Messerschmitt had to admit that It's not that they made They would've failed that way too. That would've been noticed, I mean if they'd done calculations but they had a range of tolerance, Others do the same thing, but there was always a chance Messerschmitt was unable to cover the distance Fearful of losing the huge contract, he presented a stopgap solution It would be possible with the help of another aircraft. While Messerschmitt's engineers were busy American assembly lines began producing for its war against Hitler's Germany. The Americans had a decisive advantage. Their bombers didn't have to fly They could be transported first to England The new threat from the skies He must find a way Brittany, May 27th, 1942. A German submarine and heads toward the United States. On board is a troop of German agents whose mission is to carry out The code name On June 13th, the submarine In the dark of the early morning hours, equipped with several kilograms A US coast guard agent discovers the Germans. They threaten him and pay him $260, hoping to bribe him The agents arrive Disguised as normal Americans, Four people and a limited amount of access were not going to make much difference. I think it was more psychological, the Germans wanted to do it It would not have been an effective way The coast guard informs the FBI that the Nazis have smuggled into the country. The group is believed to be in New York. The FBI immediately cranks up but to no avail. The agents take rooms in a luxury hotel. Once there, presenting himself as a defector their leader, John Dasch, discloses The other agents Dasch also informs the FBI about the impending arrival Digging for sabotage material landed from a U-boat The boxes are found by the FBI. Four saboteurs came ashore here, while four others The boxes contain material TNT for sabotage explosions. I think it was a useless operation, a useless operation The people themselves They were not professionals. They were poorly trained. They didn't know They did have contacts. Those contacts, unfortunately, also suffered afterward and they were quickly eliminated. FBI Chief Hoover to remind the American people Other saboteurs may try They must be stopped. We ask every citizen regarding espionage, sabotage to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Hoover was the big guy. He found them. Never mind that the man came in, gave himself up He wanted all the credit, There was one detail that the agents had a second mission, to carry out acts of terrorism as part of an effort If a bomb would've gone off it would've caused and public hysteria. Hitler's terrorist agents meant to discourage others Except for John Dasch they were all sentenced to death. Augsburg Airfield, December 23rd, 1942. The day has finally arrived. Six months later than originally planned, Messerschmitt's Amerikabomber Under test pilot, Karl Baur, but before long, intended to guarantee the plane can fly presents problems. Messerschmitt's planes but they were always pushing the limit This also proved to be the case The engines tended to fall off, or other parts occasionally due to their extreme Basically, no problem. That's how you get the lightest planes, It was Messerschmitt's principle If something falls apart then it would be reinforced. The authorities began to have doubts Goring decided the Air Force about how to bomb the United States. In a secret meeting on March 15th, 1943, discussed novel ways of attacking A young colonel named Viktor von Lossberg He said he'd like to fly a special mission to drop eight-ton bombs [German spoken audio] There were ideas such as I believe Blohm &amp; Voss built the 222. That was already capable of flying and could start and land That meant it was conceivable, to fly around 1,000 kilometers where a submarine would be waiting such as fuel and cargo, Then the plane would have no problem attacking the target, let's say New York, The generals expressed especially after he said, that his goal would be Among others, The way the Nazis thought was that they were as much interested in propaganda It would've created, in America, a lack of confidence in the government the same way as the 9/11 attack. The effect of the 9/11 attack was more: &quot;Why weren't you able to tell about it The same would've happened here. Lossberg's risky plan of attack but due to unfavorable weather conditions, the mission had to be postponed By that time, however, in driving the German submarines It was too late for Lossberg's plan. While the German Air Force American bombers had long since They blanketed German cities Hitler was livid and accused Goring of incompetence. He ordered his armaments minister, to come up with alternative ways Hitler's Headquarters, It was on this day that Albert Speer brought two up-and-coming Their names were Wernher von Braun The two showed Hitler a secret film that would radically change The film showed the liftoff of a rocket The German army would target it Hitler was impressed by the film. With such a rocket, at least in the visionary plans it would soon be possible Fascinated by this daring plan, Hitler made rocket research Dornberger and von Braun In their project center they began developing the A10, an intercontinental rocket but the American Secret Service It was possible that could go all the way By the time we figured out we'd found out where the rockets were made and the pads from which they were sent, and we bombed the sites. On August 18th, 1943, bombs rained down Hitler immediately placed under the direct responsibility He was the one The plans called for a huge, to be built underground in order to protect it In Austria's Salzkammergut region, work began on one of the largest [Russian spoken audio] When we got to Ebensee there were 1,000 of us. After two months, The others died of hunger, cold, It was always cold. It was always either raining or snowing. Within a short period of time, Himmler had several thousand laborers The captives were forced to work blasting tunnels into the mountainside [Russian spoken audio] I had a friend. His name was Nikolai. He was 17 years old. It was his first day. He was killed Things like that happened often. SS Brigade Leader Hans Kammler drove the work at Ebensee The rocket researchers as hundreds of forced laborers That was the only way could take shape. Installed in one of the tunnels for the future America Rocket. Worse than the forced labor in which the prisoners were held. Those who collapsed were systematically removed The SS allowed them Out of the prisoners who survived a few occasionally tried to escape. These attempts were brutally punished. [Russian spoken audio] Two Russians tried to escape. They caught up with them The dogs tore them apart Then they brought their bodies and left them there for everybody to see. Those gates were like a monument. More than 8,000 forced laborers trying to fulfill Seven kilometers of the underground Then the military situation brought Orders came from the Armaments Ministry. From now on, instead of modern the underground factories The reason was that the central weakness Since May 1944, the Allies had been targeting It was the beginning of a new strategy that was developed and it would ultimately decide the war. Intelligence is based on many things. It's based on open sources, reading newspapers, and information you get and intelligence agents. These are all put together. To some extent, a lot of the information was based on our knowledge Arms Minister Speer warned Hitler. In a secret Reich document, he estimated the loss Speer said it meant that was now just a matter of a few months. The lack of fuel quickly became evident. The planes of the Luftwaffe were grounded, allowing the Allies Coincidentally, they also destroyed the prototype without ever having learned In response to the bombing raids Speer summoned At a secret arms conference, Hitler made a speech He painted a rosy picture to sell their wares. Once this war has ended in victory for us, the private initiative will experience its grandest era. The State, which makes is obligated to enlist its power to secure in order to carry out its work So my ambition is always to search for I'm continually snooping around, who are always and those people are summoned to me The idea behind Hitler's speech, he wanted to inspire the engineers hoping they would finally come through Bad Eilsen, fall 1944. An important visitor made an appointment with the engineering office Dr. Fritz Nallinger, the chief of development Following the demise Nallinger senses He wants to present Hitler and thereby ensure that Daimler-Benz of the Third Reich. To achieve this goal, he needs the cooperation the chief engineer Tank's reputation is legendary. Before the war started, he built, in record time, that was capable of flying the so-called Condor. Now he is to build as fast as possible. Tank had the advantage He broke in the plane himself, He was able to transfer his own experience into the best possible construction. There he was, a genius of a man. Some of what he did It grew out of his own genius and his understanding First, Tank must deal with How can he build a plane capable of flying In Bad Eilsen, Nallinger What if one His idea was to fly the Condor over, drop the bombs, There was a good chance of survival. It was a so-called equipment loss, Yet another problem arose. The Condor was already getting on in years to withstand the new generation The German pilot was sure to be shot down For the attack to succeed, Nallinger promised the solution. Daimler-Benz was already working Berlin, winter 1944. Generals and pilots of the Luftwaffe to exchange thoughts For quite a while now, rumors of heroic acts of flying Some pilots had managed using a so-called ramming maneuver. They flew their small fighter planes Defying death, they used their propellers to slice through the bombers' tails. The planes fell from the sky Most of these heroic stories Instead of saving themselves most German pilots died Most of the Allied bombers even after being rammed. The German Luftwaffe as welcome proof of the heroic dedication in the fateful battle for the Reich. When Mercedes' development chief, he suddenly knew how to solve Reich's Air Force Ministry, On this day, Daimler-Benz's introduces the Amerikabomber project The solution for an attack on America, Nallinger says, Tests had shown that it was possible to bring smaller planes where they would disengage When Nallinger projects onto the wall the underwriting idea It is the use of manned bombs to produce maximum destruction It was a radical new way of thinking That's something one just cannot do. It goes against every sense of justice I'll 100% lay my own life on the line if it means I can kill The project wins approval. It is January 1945, I think Hitler had and hate. I can well imagine him imagining firebombed, destroyed, and the skyscrapers He was a dreamer of considerable ability. He dreamt of a lot of things, and I think that was From the diary of Albert Speer: &quot;I remember how, &quot;he had them show &quot;the clouds of fire above Warsaw, &quot;I recall the greed &quot;I never saw him so beside himself &quot;when, in his delirium, &quot;when New York went down &quot;He described how the skyscrapers &quot;into gigantic burning torches, &quot;and how the exploding city would reflect The Amerikabomber but the German suicide pilots In order to stave off they crashed into the bridges A shared farewell letter [German spoken audio] The farewell letter reads as follows. &quot;Comrades, at 7:48 p.m. today, &quot;We volunteer ourselves for our Fuhrer,&quot; &quot;for our homeland, for Germany.&quot; &quot;Heil to you, comrades.&quot; They all signed it. The suicide deaths of the pilots one day after they crashed into them, However, the careers of Hitler's engineers Professor Willy Messerschmitt developed Wernher von Braun built Professor Kurt Tank went to Argentina Dr. Fritz Nallinger was elected and was awarded the Order of Merit in 1954.