As the year draws to a close, it's a great out what you no longer need. Before the holiday added responsibilities, and inevitable a cozy and peaceful home to I'm here to share 20 things you can let go of it's about making space for what truly matters and new year. Ready to get started? Let's explore Pantry recommend starting with is your pantry. Take some that have expired or gone stale. Maybe there or ingredients from recipes you never got around As the holidays approach, pantries often and entertaining. Clearing some space now will come with the season. While you're at it, jot need extra cocoa for hot chocolate, spices cookies. Restocking ahead of time means A decluttered pantry not only looks better everything is neat and easy to find, cooking especially during the busy holiday season. Kitchen Appliances/Utensils your kitchen gadgets and utensils. Since the it's crucial that everything in it serves kitchen items and get rid of anything you haven't or a blender that was fun to try but now Focus on removing items that no longer keep an eye out for things like a worn-out whisk or a rice cooker that's additions to your Christmas wish list! They're and every time you use them, you'll I just wanted to throw out these ideas because anything to ask for when it's time to make a wish Expired Food in Your Fridge your fridge. Toss out anything that's past its on eating. This is a simple task that clears treats you'll want to stock up on soon. For that never seem to make it into a meal, so Your Hosting Gear many of us will be hosting gatherings more but to make things even easier, it's a essentials now. Take a moment to go through and utensils to ensure you're keeping only the If you have platters, bowls, or serving spoons or cups that no one ever seems to grab, focus on versatile pieces that can are easy to store, and will make hosting feel you'll be able to host with Eventwear season nearing, now's a great time to refresh your and seasonal clothing--make sure everything Since eventwear is worn less often, it's easy change over time. Perhaps you have a with new priorities or a different Go through your collection thoughtfully. Keep you are today. For instance, a sleek black dress while that glittery mini-dress from your quick update ensures you'll feel confident Cold Weather Gear through your winter gear. Look and boots. Eliminate anything that doesn't space. If you've got mismatched gloves or outdated actually wear and that help you feel prepared jacket that you haven't worn in years, and treat Throw Pillows and Blankets it's the perfect time to assess While a soft, cozy blanket or a comfy it's easy to have too many. You can only use pillows can crowd a sofa or bed, making Go through your collection and get rid of the that's an odd size or a blanket that's too use regularly, and that add to the cozy repurposing those that no longer fit your style picnics. By decluttering your textiles, you'll Photos impactful task that can benefit us all is going phones that it's hard to find the ones we truly of sunsets, coffee, and random screenshots. aside a night to go through your photos. It's even old memories, decide what to delete, and choose want to print some or save them in a special way. but we often don't preserve them like something special about holding onto Take time to go through your and cherish them for years. Plus, as you do computer--a definite bonus! Let's talk about gift wrapping supplies. or ribbon, I love reusing these items money. But, as with anything, they don't last I suggest taking a moment to go through your is worn out, torn, or just doesn't look as good have seen better days or some ribbon that's too up tucked away in the back of a drawer So, take a little time to sort through sure your supplies are in good shape and Autumn and Christmas Decor time to go through your autumn and Christmas ask yourself: Are there any pieces that didn't maybe you bought a pumpkin decoration that didn't those could be perfect items to declutter. decor. As you start decorating, think about the wreath that's seen better days, or an old ornament these pieces, you can create a simple, beautiful After all, who doesn't want to look around Cards &amp; Invitations you get--whether it's on the fridge, the fireplace to sort through them before the Christmas rush. those for events that have already happened, or if up space for the fresh batch of cards and invites you might want to clear out old birthday Finances area to declutter is your finances. As the year take a closer look at your budget and gain a Think about areas where you could simplify--perhaps subscriptions, or postponing big-ticket items you for an emergency fund or reallocating savings for recurring payments that are no longer necessary budget, you'll be able to reduce financial stress season, making it easier to enjoy the Expired Documents and Contracts ready for the new year is to clean out documents bank statements, and expired bills. Keeping these also makes it harder to find important documents and remove all expired or unnecessary papers. This documents for the year ahead. For example, you papers like new contracts or financial notices, Your schedule about something invisible but impactful: What do I need to say no to right now to about your goals for this time of year--maybe have some peaceful evenings at home, or easy to get overwhelmed with endless tasks, but if you usually volunteer for every event, this those that align with your personal priorities. step away from, so you can fully embrace the Your Repair Pile be holding myself accountable for: tackling the household goods, or small appliances--that need It could be shoes that need resoling, a lamp a deadline to fix or decide what to let go of. and a jacket that needs a button sewn back will help clear the clutter and leave you you love can bring them back to life, saving Kids clothing your kids' clothes is an important task. Children small in just one season. Take some time to go items that no longer fit or are damaged. This is a gift your child new clothes for the new year. If and can be reused, consider saving them for future only help organize their wardrobe but also help Kids' Toys &amp; Books to sort through your children's toys and books. once excited them may no longer be of interest. age-appropriate or loved. You can also make their developing interests. For example, donate with and replace them with a new interactive Candles to declutter your candle collection--it's end. Candles are so easy to accumulate, or received as thoughtful gifts. But let's be lit? Instead of letting them sit untouched, Pick a candle to light during dinner or cozy atmosphere on chilly evenings or during a small "self-care kit" with a candle, a book, Medicine Cabinet go through your medicine cabinet, especially with of expired medications and make sure everything if you have several bottles of cough syrup and dispose of the old ones. This way, Your "Deal with It Later" Pile been meaning to deal with later. We all have those or organizing. Take action now, and you'll if you've been meaning to organize dedicate some time today to start. You'll End you can declutter before 2025. I hope this list and your life as the holidays approach. Letting go the year with a clearer mind. What will you If you liked this video, be sure to like and