One hundred years ago ended a war of a a war involving more than 60 In this video, let's retrace the origins, the course and the consequences of the First World War. To understand the origins of this first world conflict, it begins in 1871, at the end of the Franco-German war which opposed the French Empire to the confederation of Northern Germany, allied with the German states of the South. After 6 months of fighting France is defeated and the victors unite to form the German Empire. Alsace and Moselle are annexed to the new empire, creating frustrations on the French side. In the following years, Germany will quickly catch up in industry and the economy. The country will also forge alliances, first with the Austro-Hungarian Empire, then with Italy, which is frustrated by the French colonization of Tunisia. The three form the Triplice or Triple Alliance. Germany is now a to begin the colonization of African territories. For its part, France allies with the Russian Empire and signs a secret pact of non-aggression with Italy, thus avoiding a second front in case of war. The British Empire fears the rise of the German army, and more particularly its military fleet. The country then comes out of its isolation to get closer to France, then to Russia. Together they form the Triple Entente. In the Balkans, the Austro-Hungarian Empire annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina. This goes against the dream of neighboring Serbia, which is to unite the southern Slav peoples. This project appeals to Russia, which is approaching the country diplomatically. On June 29, 1914 in Sarajevo, a young Serbian nationalist from Bosnia murder the heir to the throne of Austria and his wife. Austria-Hungary accuses Serbia of organizing the attack and despite Russian threats declare him war the following month. In a few days, the conflict spreads between the countries of the Triple Entente and the Triple Alliance. Only Italy remains neutral for the moment. The German plan is to take speed the French army which is concentrated in the East bypassing it to the north. To achieve this, Germany is violating the neutrality of Luxembourg and Belgium. The French, British and Belgian armies are forced to retreat. Fearing the capture of Paris, the French government flees the capital to settle in Bordeaux. But the German army turns away from the city to continue the encirclement of the French army. They are then attacked on the flank by the Paris army, which forces them to withdraw further north, marking the failure of the Schlieffen plan. The new German objective is to reach the strategic ports of Calais, Dunkirk and Boulogne-sur-Mer to cut off British supplies. The Belgian army is inferior and can not resist the German advance. In the plain of the Yser, the choice is then made to open the valves of the locks to flood the polders. The German army is stopped dead, which leaves time to the allies to organize and install trenches. These will be 700 km long, from the North Sea to Switzerland, freezing the front line. With the front stabilized in the west, Germany sends troops to reinforce the East against the Russian offensive which puts Austria-Hungary in difficulty. Another rival of the Russian Empire, the Ottoman Empire takes advantage of the situation to return to war alongside Germany. A new front is created east of the Black Sea and another in Sinai facing the British protectorate in Egypt. To weaken the Ottoman Empire, the British will support an Arab rebellion by promising them independence on liberated lands. Finally, Italy declares war on Austria-Hungary with the hope of gaining territory. In Asia, Japan went to war against Germany and seizes his colonies in the Pacific and China. In Africa, the German colonies are stormed by French, British and Belgian forces. Local people are enlisted in European armies. France mobilizes nearly 800,000 people, a large proportion of whom are sent to Europe. The British Empire is enrolling 2,700,000 men from his dominions and colonies. In the west, the Germans will innovate militarily. They are the first to organize London and Paris are regularly Aviation is initially used for tracking, but quickly we armed the planes with machine guns and we attend the first aerial combats. Another novelty, Germany embarked on an underwater war in British territorial waters where she sinks the ships she meets. Finally in the trenches, the Germans which will be sent according to the winds and will make many victims. Despite some attempts at costly breakthroughs in life, the front line remains fixed. In the trenches, the soldiers who survive the fighting are forced to live in harsh conditions. Mud, vermin, rats and the smell of decomposing corpses put their nerves to the test. In the spring, some of them on the French side will begin mutinies that will be repressed. Opposite, Germany also gets tired of the situation, the country is now focusing on economic warfare and sending its submarines into the Atlantic to sink all ships, even commercial, heading to the UK. Exhausted by the war, Russia already has more than 1,700,000 casualties among its troops. Morale is low on the front Then takes place a short revolution that brings down the regime of the Tsars. At the same time, the United States finds itself victims of the commercial blockade in the Atlantic. They decide to go to war with the allies. In Russia, a second revolution allows the Bolsheviks to come to power, supported and funded by Germany. These immediately sign a ceasefire with the Central Empires. Germany is relieved on the Russian side and can now concentrate its troops on the west. The country succeeds a breakthrough and approaches Paris which it bombards. But the German army is moving too fast to the south. French army against attack In panic, German soldiers From this moment, the allies lead on all fronts. In Germany, mutinies and a revolutionary wave force the emperor to abdicate and allows the signing of the armistice, marking the end of the war which will have cost the life On June 28, 1919, it is the signing of the treaty German representatives are not invited, the country is forced to accept the demands of the winners. Germany and its allies are declared solely responsible for the damage of the war and must pay heavy compensation. Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire are dismantled, giving way to new countries or colonies. Germany, meanwhile, is humiliated and over-indebted. His army is dismantled and his colonies are divided between the victors. The country sells 15% of its territories to France, Belgium, Denmark and Poland which is recreated. Only small consolation, the country remained intact because there was no fighting, his industry is therefore still standing. This humiliation imposed on the Germans already suggests a desire for revenge.