My name is Sarah Edmondson. I spent 12 years inside Nxivm, one of America's most notorious cults. This is how crime works. It's hard to know what I if I'd spent my 30s building and not working for a a sociopath, a sex addict, who was pretending to help Other people might look &quot;I would never fall for that. and that's so obvious,&quot; but I first heard about Nxivm when I was 26. I had been an actress, I'd and I was feeling like my career wasn't as meaningful and At the time, I saw people around me doing wonderfully and succeeding, and I was not in the place that I thought I would be by my mid-20s. My boyfriend at the time was a filmmaker, and his film had been where I met the director of a film called &quot;What the Bleep Do We And he said, &quot;Well, if you like my film, you'll love this workshop and he introduced me Nxivm is the umbrella for a number of different organizations. Executive Success Program was one of them. There were lots of very successful people in their Heads of state, entrepreneurs, actors, but everybody has what we call The program was a mixture of personal and professional development. It was more the promise of the community and doing something more I was a big personal-growth junkie. My parents are both therapists. So I was totally open to this concept of personal development and growth, and I've been raised with the idea that you can make a difference and you can leave the world better, and this seemed like the way to do it. What we thought we were doing in Nxivm was looking at those belief and become the people It was very easy for I say &quot;preach&quot; now because I was very evangelical about it. You know, I found the and the results of the I started to book more. I had a lead role in a film that was at the Toronto Film Festival. So people around me thought, you know, the proof was in the pudding. Unfortunately, I saw many red flags. I just had no idea what I was looking at. I was introduced to Keith Raniere as the most ethical humanitarian and one of the top three when I met him. I thought he'd created this curriculum that was groundbreaking and was going to change the personal-development space and he had invented something That's what I thought. After every class, we'd bowing to somebody in the So by the time anyone met him, they'd already have an immense I thought that if this man that changed my life was in front of me, I'd be honored to meet him, like I was meeting somebody like, you know, meeting the I was very reverent of him. And I was. And I was, at the same time, I was underwhelmed by his appearance. He had this scraggly sort of Jesus hair, and it was very unassuming, He was definitely kind of sheltered. He'd come out every now and then. It would be like this hush and the rush in a space where, like, &quot;Oh, Keith is coming, Vanguard's coming.&quot; He was charismatic in that he was very good at holding space for a room. He was very articulate, a lot of what I now know as word salad, where he would pontificate and tell shared sort that would resonate very deeply, and then go off on other and think, &quot;Did I miss that? I didn't quite understand that.&quot; But everyone else is smiling and nodding, so I think, &quot;Oh, yeah, I'm because I must have missed that one.&quot; And that was definitely part is this highbrow intelligence. You always wanted to and learn and glean from him. I thought he was celibate. When I met him and was introduced to him, and the way that people spoke about him, is that he was a renunciate. So he had no personal possessions. He didn't own anything. he didn't own his home, He's like a spiritual leader, he's a monk. He doesn't need possessions, He's a renunciate, celibate, evolved man. I found out many years later a sociopath, a narcissist, a sex addict. That was a front for of basically fresh women for I never got too close to him. There was always something I didn't feel good around him, but I thought that was my The name Nxivm, we were told at the time it was a made-up word that he'd created that was like a merging of Greek and Latin and had something to do But later we found out that which had to do with I'd say the main tenets of all was, one, personal responsibility. In other words, I cause Again, really helpful to own but the downside of that is that if I say, hey, I don't like this it can always be flipped and then the abuser won't The packaging of Nxivm at the time was called Executive Success Programs. ESP itself was the idea that you could evolve yourself and your limiting beliefs and become the person that you want to be with this tool set that and it was cutting-edge technology in the space, in personal development. This first training and it was just over $2,000 at the time. We're looking at belief systems. We're also learning basic good communication, learning understanding how to interact scripting for asking for what you want in a way that is direct So there's a mixture of both The setup for most of the and the different programs under Nxivm were what was called inductive learning, or what we thought was inductive learning. Nobody was just talking at us. The setup was normally, we'd be answering questions and then there'd be a video on the screen. And Nancy Salzman, Keith she would be explaining the concepts, and then we would go, &quot;Oh, And then there'd be another and then a breakout And sometimes there were forums. Keith would do a forum where In the initial signing of the application, there was a lot of pressure, a lot of what we call scarcity mentality, like, this is your only opportunity and this might not come And I had a bit of FOMO, and So that pressure that I felt to sign up right at the beginning was The head trainers very systematically and succinctly shared that, we are here. I'd committed to my growth. and that any growth would be So they said, &quot;If you feel uncomfortable and you have the urge to bolt, we ask that you stay in the room and talk to one of the In one of the early trainings, there was a game called where we had to, in a circle, before we even answered the questions, put everybody in categories I think it was attractive, I had many, many instances but I also knew that I and I wanted to please Mark and show him that I was strong enough It can take as little as three days to indoctrinate somebody if they're open and which is what happened. I think that if anyone were to spend 10 to 12 hours a day with you'd work through a lot of I looked at different aspects of my life and what was working and not working. It's almost like I or lifted up a veil, and when I left, I could see clearly. I understood myself better. I understood other people better. So one of the things that at the time in Nxivm is that we believed that the personal development, was not measurable. There's no way to tell, are you So we thought that we had this martial-arts system and that when you'd join just like you'd get a belt in karate. I got to green sash, something I was very proud of at the time, because I believe there 12 and 14 when I left, I was part of a circle of a little women's group that And I just came back to that group and I said, &quot;I found the answers. I found the thing that to take our careers to the next level and work through all the that were stopping us from being optimal.&quot; I felt like I had the map to success, a secret handbook that nobody else had. At that point, I'd sunk and that number crept up over the years to over, way over $100,000. People paid anywhere from I don't know what the but hundreds of thousands and really where Nxivm managed to expand is they tapped into certain echelons, specifically the political elite in Mexico who were very well off. People paid to take trainings, and then that payment would go to the people running the trainings and the people producing the trainings, but the bulk of it went to And depending on where you you'd get none of the money And of course, that was always met with the feedback from the upper ranks saying, &quot;Well, you just need to so you can get to the next level, which would be where you get paid.&quot; I was one of the people and then they would use Like, I was really a poster Like, look, if Sarah can do So, the headquarters for was in Albany, New York, the first Canadian center There were centers in Guadalajara, Leon. I used a lot of my own personal because the percentage to run the center wasn't And it's a similar structure to what I see in a lot of organizations, especially MLMs, multilevel marketing, which is built on this it's actually a chapter in my I always felt frustrated with There was always things Like, why don't we have a new website? I had an opportunity to bring Lululemon was using Landmark as their curriculum at the time. They wanted a new curriculum. I had heard that, and I and the people that were And they were like, And basically, Keith to Albany and take a 16-day training.&quot; And they were like, &quot;Can you come to Vancouver or Lululemon?&quot; And so, if I didn't know any better, he was sabotaging things. This is an opportunity to bring Nxivm ESP, Executive Success Programs, to Lululemon. Why wouldn't we do that? And I found out later it's because he knew that if it was under scrutiny they would see through the So he could only have it grow so much. He just wanted it to grow so much that he could have a and a certain number of, you know, fresh, young women at his disposal. I see now that it was in that it was a pyramid, there's somebody at the and the scheme was the lie. The lie is, join this curriculum and you'll reach your success, reach your goals, have But it was, again, the illusion of hope dangled We don't know for sure, 17,000 to 20,000 people I don't have an exact came through the Vancouver center, but at any given time, our That was all word of mouth. We didn't advertise at all. How I was trained to spot people that I wanted to bring in is to go to a workshop or to go to an event and look for bright lights, people who were already shining and wanting to do big things in the world, and bring them into our little group. People were used in different ways, including the Dalai Lama. We used to say the Dalai I will say that anyone is susceptible at the right place, at the right time. Other people might look at my experience and say, &quot;I would never fall for that. I would never fall for Nxivm, It's very obvious to me now. And that's fine, maybe you never would. But everyone is susceptible to a con or to be lied to or brought and it's just really about the right place at the right time, and I got married to Nippy Ames, and we had our baby in 2014. I'd been there for nine years, and all of a sudden, you know, I'm a mother, and my My internal commitment was The years leading up to but I was still so attached and I really wanted to make this work that I couldn't see it. In the same way a lot of and put Keith on a pedestal, I probably did that more with and Nancy's daughter, Lauren. Lauren was the head of education. She was only a year older than me, so I really resonated with in terms of I wanted to be like her. She was a head trainer. I loved when she trained a curriculum, because I knew that my friends, if they saw her onstage, would be like, &quot;This is it. I want to do this.&quot; Because she was so relatable and so funny and stylish. So she's somebody who I probably the most in the whole program. I was invited into this badass bootcamp for who's somebody who I loved and respected. She was the godparent DOS, which is what they called it, Dominus Obsequious Sororium, which, I didn't know at Now we know it means something about &quot;master over slave women.&quot; So just like with Nxivm, we thought it was this beautiful personal- and and it was actually a a harem of women that he was But what we were told it was is it was this group of who were going to hold to their highest goals and their ideals. And so when she invited me to this thing that would take my and I had already committed to doing whatever it took to go to the next level, it was an easy yes. And then there was another element of it that was sort of exciting. Nobody knew about it. It was secret. There was a secret girls club. I knew that other women were in it, but nobody knew who was in it, and it was sort of hush-hush-hush. That part was fun. But I also knew that I and be a part of this, like, get an initiation and meet When I was first invited, And of course the response was, &quot;Well, that's how you should feel.&quot; You want everything to be on the line so that you do what you and be committed to your goals. I had to give collateral, which is the Nxivm word for blackmail. So it was something as my word for secrecy. This had already been introduced so that was kind of normal for me. I had known that other women had given much more damaging collateral, including sexual videos and some of them true, some of them untrue, and now we know it's also like, a lot of what they collected So I had to give her a of bad things I did when I was in my 20s, and then she took a picture I assumed it was a woman, and I was told it wasn't bad enough and I had to do another one. And that was the collateral to then hear what this group was. She was going to be my In my mind, I'm like, I live in Vancouver, she lives in Albany. I'm not really going to be But ultimately, I was taking I had to be on call. All of us had to have our We had to be available at any moment, even when we were sleeping. You couldn't be unavailable you know, in an elevator or in the ocean or something like that. Even when you were in the to get WiFi and let people It's so crazy. We had to respond within And we found out once, and we were told that someone could get locked up if we failed again. As soon as I'd committed to this thing, I had a pit in my stomach and was trying to figure from the beginning. There was a number of things this is not a women's Ultimately what woke me up which is, still to this day, triggering to talk about, I flash back often to the moment of it and wonder how I got through it. It was unbelievably painful. Even when I gave birth, I had epidurals, and before the epidural but nothing was as painful as this. So, imagine a brand, and that basically sliced the skin open slowly what I now know was designed on purpose to create a trauma bond with my &quot;sisters&quot; and have us feel like we're and that we wouldn't tell anybody, also because there's a level One of the reasons why cults like this go on to exist is because if people have the luxury of waking they don't want to tell anybody, because they participated, That night, when I was still indoctrinated and believing I was doing something, in that world, it was this is part of the Nxivm rhetoric, painful to prove my commitment I would prove my strength and then I could do anything. I actually felt really proud of myself. Once I was fully in, then it was revealed that I would have to hand over Now, this was a lifetime So I'm thinking to myself, I've I've got to get more and more and more opportunity for it to be blackmailed for the rest of my life? What I found out shortly after leaving is that that's basically what from even before he started Nxivm. He would bind them into some where he would have something over them. DOS was the first time So, once I was fully collateralized, I was told that I had to and that I also had to something that I didn't really want to do, because I didn't, I wasn't in myself. I was fully in with Nxivm, but this was like, I don't Like, on one side of my brain, I'm thinking, &quot;How am I This is crazy. People think And then the other part you're a green sash and and the other women here are lower rank, and you've got to suck it up and be strong and be a leader to them My relationship with Lauren became very strained at this time because it was very much a similar dynamic of an abusive relationship, which now I know is what And it wasn't actually that woke me up and snapped me out of it. It was weeks later when I realized that the symbol on my body, that symbol, when you look in the mirror and you turn your head to the side, was Keith's initials. I was trying to figure out how to get out, because I didn't want to give collateral for the rest of my life, into something that I And meanwhile, a lot of that were huge red two of his closest friends Pam Cafritz and Barb Jeske, the purple sashes, the two purple sashes, the highest rank other died of cancer. The funerals were very strange because they were very showy and more like a wedding than a funeral. And I couldn't put my but I was very uncomfortable, because also he presented And at the same time, Mark Vicente, who had brought me in, and helped me open the He wouldn't tell me why he was leaving unless I signed an NDA. Under that NDA, he told me what he knew, which was not the whole picture, because he didn't know about the branding. But what he did know is a secret group and they Some of the women had the assignment to go seduce Keith, and I knew about the branding, and I somehow felt safe under his NDA to tell him what I knew. the first time, we had a about everything that And with that, we were what we actually now know It was just a blackmail and I believe that's what All of a sudden, all been said about Keith in the media, from my friends and family, were all just suddenly glaringly true. And I woke up like that. It was not a slow thing The rug got pulled out from under me, and my reality got flipped upside down. Now I'm no longer this recruiter for a personal-development group. I'm part of this nefarious sex cult, and what am I going to do now? And that was a very, very scary time, because I didn't know who was in it. I didn't know how deep it was. I didn't know how much All I knew was that I had to get out, and Mark and Nippy and I and a few others, Mark's wife, Bonnie, we just strategized very and how to do it without which of course they did, because there's a playbook. Silence defectors. We ended up having a whole strategy about how to basically cause a scene so that people would start to but also step away in a way that they felt that Because Nxivm didn't go They went after people who Mark Vicente had set up a meeting for me with the FBI office, and I And then, crickets. I had this image of and stopping the next round of branding, which was supposed to happen that week. But yeah, I went to them, And so then we decided to go to the press. And then The New York Times article came out in the fall of 2017, and that's really when the I mean, this was probably scary time of my life. I wasn't sure if I was if they were going to One of the leaders came to Vancouver and tried to get the on a bunch of charges that fraud, mischief, and theft. Apparently it was that my prosecutor, hero, in New York, to say, hey, we gotta And her and her team and the FBI acted very quickly to extradite Keith, who was hiding in Mexico and deport him and hold a trial, and have an incredible legal who the bad people were and and put him in jail for 120 years. In that time period, where I was trying to let people, as many people know the truth. I'm still shocked about what was revealed. Like, when we blew the whistle, there's what we knew, and revealed at the trial that was shocking, mind-blowing, and incredibly upsetting to know all this was happening One of my dear friends who's married, who was in DOS and having to perform in sex acts with Keith, and just really horrific things Like, I thought I knew the worst of it. And it was so much more. And specifically with Lauren, what's heartbreaking is that I found out that he'd been promising her a baby. She was in it for the long term. She missed out on her because she was waiting for Keith to, you know, grant her that which he was promising to many women. The wake of Keith's destruction is unimaginable. And there's probably more My understanding is that he, he was kind of playing the victim and that he was misunderstood and he was, I believe his lawyer as maybe unconventional, but always a good man and that maybe went too far, but he would never, was Keith Raniere was convicted including sex trafficking, conspiracy, wire-fraud conspiracy, and racketeering conspiracy. And the jury only took four, less than four hours to deliberate. It was very clear. When all of this kind of came to light and &quot;The Vow&quot; came out, what I didn't realize is that &quot;The Vow&quot; opened up a world where people and cults and abusive relationships, anything where there was people watched that and and felt that they were no longer alone. And they felt seen. I had no idea that was going to happen when we did &quot;The Vow.&quot; Even when we were filming it, we were documenting it because we had to show what we were doing and we were trying to do the right thing. And I never thought this footage would become an HBO hit during a pandemic and reach people all over the world and give them hope to get out of the situation they were in, in some cases, in some cases, avoid a situation. I can't even tell you how many &quot;I almost signed up for this and then I saw 'The Vow' and I realized what the red flags were.&quot; I wrote the book just actually as the trial was underway and was finishing the book So it's really my story of getting in and my time in Nxivm, and The book is called the Cult That Bound My Life.&quot; We started a podcast called and we look at things that and a lot culty and everything in between. Unfortunately, there's thousands of cults. We don't actually know because they keep popping up, and they've been under the radar, and they remain under the Every episode we're talking to somebody from a different group or or field of expertise, and we've come to the conclusion that any group can become culty, if they're not already. They may start altruistic and but with the right, or it's in some cases the wrong person involved or at the helm, they can take a turn. We've also come to the conclusion that everyone is susceptible. Nobody is immune. If you think you are immune, and really, truly, the only actual immunity So that's what we try to do now. We actually made an episode specifically for people who have friends and family that are involved in something they're concerned about and the best advice I would say to them is don't tell them that they're in a cult. Don't put them on the defensive, because it actually has said to them will happen You want to give your friends and family a lifeline to the outside world. You want them to feel safe So if you can just be present with them and loving with them and try to be genuinely curious, like, &quot;Oh, tell me about this group,&quot; And, &quot;Oh, so you don't get for example. Just ask questions in a way that maybe the get back to their critical thinking, because often that's been taken away, and you want them to have someone to call if and when they start to have doubts. The first piece of advice is to know that, and this but that you're already whole and that you're already complete and you don't need any of those things. But oftentimes we feel that need. I'd say if you feel like you're, you know, if something's being sold to you based on an assumption of your neediness and they're offering the antidote to that, they're offering the answers, and they're dangling a promise and it's all there, that's a huge red flag. Nobody has all the answers. Do your research. If you type in, &quot;Is blank a cult,&quot; does anything come up on the internet? Are there articles from actual, legitimate publications saying that from legitimate sources? And what's the company or organization's group response to those allegations? Oftentimes people will say, oh, they're just jilted lovers, That's a huge red flag. Where there's smoke, there's fire. So that's my advice to people, Is this toxic? Is it Can you be yourself? Do you have your full self in this thing, or are you cutting off parts of yourself to be accepted and to feel belonging? I didn't do anything for a while because I felt like I People didn't believe it, and I had to show people And anyone who was in Nxivm who was still indoctrinated &quot;Oh, what's so bad about it?&quot; Or, &quot;But didn't you choose it? Didn't you say yes to that?&quot; That's when I knew they were gone. Anyone outside of Nxivm would They'd go, &quot;I'm so sorry, So, a couple of years ago, I had it completely surgically removed. I'm really glad that his What's my biggest regret? I try not to have regrets because I don't think that's I really love my life now. I love my boys, and I if I had not met Nippy in Nxivm. Sorry for me to cry again. I mean, I can't help but wonder what my 30s would've been like had I been a part of a legitimate group, legitimate company, and built But like I said, if I had done that, I wouldn't be a mom to my boys and living in Atlanta and So I think, I don't want to say everything happens for a reason, because I don't know if it's that exactly, obviously I wish that I but it caused me to wake up and be able to be an and be on this path of So maybe it was somehow I don't know. Hi, I'm a producer on &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; If you enjoyed this video, then please subscribe and comment below with more ideas of topics you'd like us to cover in this series.