This is Echo, a giant metal balloon Known as the most beautiful satellite ever launched it had no electronics and simply bounced using its reflective surface. Despite its simplicity, it worked extremely well. Soon after it launched, President Eisenhower sent a Up until this point, all communication around the world had to be done using a crazy maze of undersea cables. So the idea of satellite communication was mind-blowing. But not everyone thought it would work. Some engineers thought that the Earth's ionosphere would block any radio waves trying to pass through. So before Echo was ever launched, NASA had to That's when they realized that they already had a used the Moon as a giant reflector to send voice But how did this actually work? In the same way that light bounces off a mirror, As the signal is bounced off the surface, A small portion of the signal will make its way back to Earth where it can be picked up by a A larger reflector will And so, in order for these balloons to work, they a giant sheet of mylar plastic, which had 1/10th The sheet was cut up into over 100 gores which were each covered in a thin layer of aluminum, The gores were then glued together On Earth, the balloon needed an entire In space, only a few kilograms were needed. This is because on Earth, our atmosphere pushes against the balloon - and so more air is needed to counteract this. In space, there is no atmosphere - and only a tiny amount of air is needed to fill the balloon. Once it was complete, NASA inflated Echo for the first time. And in 1958, this giant balloon came to life. This would be by far the biggest thing and the only way to get it there was by But this proved to be a massive challenge. Without its Well, a fresh supply of air was carried up to the balloon Just kidding, no Starship Enterprise but they were used in the sponsor of today's video, a strategy game that other civilizations within the Stark Trek you can choose to play as one of the 4 main and officers like Picard, Janeway, Sisko, and you can deal with other civilizations peacefully, You are in command! The game offers a wide range all of which can be modified and upgraded to Get the game today and create your own Star Trek In order to turn Echo from this into Instead of carrying its own air, the a special powder that turns straight from a And so, when the balloon was released into space the causing it to expand inside the balloon. In just a matter of seconds, this enormous But having such a massive object To combat any small punctures to its skin, Echo 1 be released to maintain the balloon's pressure. Its skin was also made of mylar, but it was When the balloon was pressurized, the foil would get stretched, causing it to stiffen up and harden in place. This made the balloon rigid. Even if micrometeorites hit the Of course, these giant shiny balloons ended up being they were some of the brightest objects in But this brightness was In order to actually send and receive signals, and lock onto the balloon as it moved across the sky. And so, the easiest way was to simply point the antenna dish directly at the balloon when it when the balloon happened to be over that part of when the Sun was illuminating the balloons. If the balloons couldn't be seen with the naked eye they could rely on NASA's tracking network, On Echo 2, they included a tracking beacon which sent out a pulse and made the balloon much Most of Echo's communication was done between purpose-built ground stations in California and New Jersey. But Project Echo was designed as a global the balloons passed over every part of the world, had the equipment. Transmissions were even who nicknamed the balloon the Friendly Sputnik. signals around the world - they were also used to At the time, our most accurate measurements the actual distances between continents and cities And so, scientists used Echo First, they measured the signal travel time from two the distance to Echo. Then, by measuring the scientists could form a triangle. points could be calculated to within a few Earth around 10 times more accurate. But After all, NASA was only a couple of was known about the long term effects that One of the biggest unknowns was atmospheric drag. there are tiny traces of atmosphere that will surface area, these balloons felt Thanks to Echo 1, NASA were able to track how its orbit it changed a lot. Surprisingly, atmospheric Instead, the solar wind which radiates out from These two balloons continued to work perfectly global communications system in space was these iconic balloons taught NASA more The receiver that was used to detect Echo's The materials developed for Echo are Although these types of their legacy as the first leap into and Echo 1 and 2 will go down as And now time for the Primal Space giveaway, the Congratulations! In the next video, Space Shuttle poster to one lucky winner. All like the video and leave a comment Thank you very much for