Hi ... Good morning!! Good Morning!! Right now I am at cochin international airport Right now I am at cochin international airport Today... Abhirami is also with me.. She has gone to park the car .So i thought i'll do the intro alone until she comes. she has gone to park the car . so i thought ill do the intro alone until she comes. she has gone to park the car . so i thought ill do the intro alone until she comes. That's what happening here (haha) That's what happening here (haha) So... welcome back to another brand new episode of AG VLOGS.. So welcome back to another brand new episode of AG VLOGS.. Abhi... i already did the intro part , do you have any problem ? (Laughs) NO... Actually.. You know, AG vlogs is incomplete without Abhi.. So.. She is my elder sister no, what to do...? She did the intro without me... And me.. I was running to find a parking lot there And me.. I was running to find a parking lot there Once again....!!! Welcome back to yet another brand new episode of Welcome back to yet another brand new episode of AG VLOGS!!!! So today... as i said earlier... We are right now at the airport Do you know where we are going ? Qatar! We are going to Doha.. There, Qatar India football (QIA) match happening in Al Ahli stadium There, Qatar India football (QIA) match happening in Al Ahli stadium There, Qatar India football (QIA) match happening in Al Ahli stadium Its a big event and we're going to be a part of it.. Then.. We are also performing at the closing ceremony and grand finale of this event. We are also performing at the closing ceremony and grand finale of this event. We are also performing at the closing ceremony and grand finale of this event. Our band mates Anoop and Siddharth are also performing along with us. Yeah my hands are paining... So Now we are going to check in.... Abhi, what you up to..!! haha you were better in handling this... We will try to shoot inside also.. We don't have experience in handling camera but still we will try our best to show you . See you .... The most important thing we have to tell you is that this is AG vlogs's first international tour video The most important thing we have to tell you is that this is AG vlogs's first international tour video we got the tickets and boarding passes... :) Tickets.. Tickets... So we are going to do the immigration actually the time is 1:30 am now actually the time is 1:30 am now since we haven't eaten any dinner , we will complete the immigration process fast and then eat. so for the time being i don't think we need to shoot the immigration process.... No!! we might get beaten up by the guards. No!! we might get beaten up by the guards. A FEW MOMENTS LATER Finally!! we have finished with the security check ins Sister and I Sister and I ok so ... Flight is at 3:30 am. Now its only 2 am. Now its only 2 am. We have We have almost one hour left for the flight. So we are moving on to the main thing .... Food!! Sister is eating here in front of me I am getting the smell of the food Its tempting and now i cant control Its tempting and now i cant control Its tempting and now i cant control I tried my maximum to shoot more but see shes tempting me with the yummy food. I tried my maximum to shoot more but see she is tempting me with the yummy food I tried my maximum to shoot more but see she is tempting me with the yummy food So we now we will finish the food and sleep So we now we will finish the food and sleep We will see you guys after reaching Qatar.. We will see you guys after reaching Qatar.. If we don't rest now we might not be able to sing during the event If we don't rest now we might not be able to sing during the event So we are going to sleep. So we are going to sleep. Where is the light!! See you in Qatar!!! So we have landed at Qatar airport You might not be able to hear us clearly, as this place is noisy ...this place is noisy Okay!! So we have taken our luggage .... We reached here, Now, waiting for our sponsors.. We are exiting from here they will be waiting for us outside. Abhiii.. What is the secret of your hair..? So many people are asking me about your hair secret. Don't wash and Don't comb that's all . just don't disturb it ,it will grow automatically. So finally we have reached Qatar... Most beautiful thing of our musical journey is that, We go to many places and get connected with a lot of good people... The bond grows with these people when we revisit the place again... right ? So even before our sponsors reached, So even before our sponsors reached, Our previous event sponsors Sudeesh chettan and his wife has come to pick us up Our previous event sponsors Sudeesh chettan and his wife has come to pick us up Our previous event sponsors Sudeesh chettan and his wife has come to pick us up Whenever we come here and call them they jump out of the bed put some clothes and come fast. put some clothes and come fast. Our stay is at holiday inn . We are going there Our sponsors are there in front and behind us Anoop and siddarth.... !! Anoop &amp; Siddaarth flied from chennai so they have reached earlier and checked in. Anoop &amp; Siddaarth flied from chennai so they have reached earlier and checked in. Anoop &amp; Siddaarth flied from chennai so they have reached earlier and checked in. lets go to their room and see what they are doing Yes!! lets go irritate them.... Abhi, I guess we at the wrong door.... We have been ringing the bell for 2-3 times. No one is opening.. What if some Arab comes and hits us? lets ring the bell and run off...... Its not openingggg.. - Door Knocks - I hope this is Anoop's room. _ Murmuring _ My sister is taken a psycological move.. Hello can you please connect to room no 735. Yeah Amrutha! Not just Amrutha!!! CID Amrutha !. My name is amrutha ,the guest name is Anoop. _ Murmuring _ When they asked the guest name, I thought I was the guest and i said my name... But they asked the other guest's name . They should say nah , which guest it is... Hello.. Hey man ...Open the door... We are standing outside your room and calling you . Open the door fast. Mission Completed! One Eternity Later... What were you upto actually? Was sleeping! Oh really!! Do u know for how long we were knocking on the door? We Rang the bell, then knocked! Then... You opened!! Oh you are eating these green leaves!! Are you on a diet ? Yeah Since when? Just few hours before. Everyone look at his chests . See It has become broad. So our room no is 746. Here it is ! Chechi, Lets open the door and get inside . Enter with right foot! :p Our program is at evening . Its 9 am now . Its me Abhirami Suresh with you all.. So the program is at 6:30 in the evening Its 9:00 am now . We will go for lunch at 12 pm. Thereafter at 1 pm we will go for sound check. What a timing. Karthik has messaged me now. So anyways lets take some rest before the show. Yes! We will come back after our sound check and all.. We are doing our rehearsals now. So he is the character we didn't show before. This is Siddharth. Helloo!! You are coming for the first time in AG Vlogs; Right..? Yes Ohhhh! I forgot that completely.. We haven't introduced Siddharth to you guys You have seen Kumaran right , the drummer We have 2 drummers , Siddarth and Kumaran If you talk about Siddarth .. He is a Guinness record holder. The current Guinness record holder for fastest drumming.right ? Yeah The only problem with him is that he is so immature He is very young, He is growing beard and mustache to look tough. We are done with our rehearsals now. And the way we got ready, you can understand where we are going to do.. What did you understand? That we are going to have food ! AG Vlog viewers knows it very well, that if we get ready like this, That too with so much enthusiasm... Then It must be to go out for having food.... So Before that, we shall introduce you to the person who brought us here. Hi... Oh Can't see your face... Ahhh Okay... Vinod chettan and family.... So we are going to eat food ... Shall we leave ? Oh this is our Amrutham Gamaya T-shirt !!! Are You a fan? Are you a fan? Yeahh Fan!! So we have reached the venue of our today's show. This is Hamad Bin Khalifa stadium OR Al Ahli stadium. Al Ahli stadium. For the time being we have finished with our sound check we will be going back to the hotel eh... Don't mind him.. We have to get ready and come back fast with in an hour He might come back again, don't mind him. For the time being bye guys... Its show time now! Lets see what all we can shoot and show you guys! Now its time for us to do makeup! Bye Hi guys .. Today we are going back... Abhiiii....... Before going back, we thought of exploring Qatar with our Uncle. So we have been seeing places.. That is the Parliament of Qatar. That's Qatar Parliament It would be better if we could zoom in more.. I had worked in Suno FM in Qatar. So when I was working here, I saw this king of Qatar picture.. Uncle, He is the King, Right? So when I saw his picture I was wondering, Why Rajnikanth's photos were stuck all around... Isn't he really looks like Rajinikanth, Uncle? Abhii Why aren't you reacting to my comedy ? I have no energy .. I ate only little food since all of you were telling me I eat a lot So I am not eating and now I am not well. So this is the... Museum National Museum. Look at its shape Just like a flower. Yeah like a dessert flower.. Hi people... So we have almost come to an end of our Qatar Vlog Actually we had a lot of plans to go out.. and shoot lot of stuff but we didn't get enough time... Tomorrow we have to reach back to Kerala and have some works We aren't staying here, returning the next day itself. Few people who we met during our last visit to Qatar are here to see us off... the kids and the moms. So let's all sign off together... Yes So Bye Bye AG Vlogs... Here, we will ask karthik to put &quot;Tan Tanan&quot; music... Is it 735?? Open Fast... They will think that you're a spider woman! What Happened to you all? What happened chechi? Look at Anoop!! Eskimo Anoop I am also in the frame! What are you upto Anoop? You got stuck there? He is cracking some bad jokes.. Hehehe