Hello Health Champions. The number one question to have during intermittent fasting? Which ones will sabotage your progress? Coming right Hey I'm Doctor Ekberg I'm a holistic doctor and a former Olympic decathlete and if you how the body really works make sure you subscribe miss anything. So I want to go over 15 different they affect you depending on what your goal is. And if you stick with me all the way to the end I'm going to have a little bonus for you that I think that you will really enjoy. So when they doing intermittent fasting. One would and type 2 diabetes even though weight typically are some people have insulin resistance and that can shift things a little bit. There are some people have certain benefits and there's a lot of of a health issue but they want to optimize The first drink we're going to talk about is water. And it's the is made of. It's the neutral fluid medium of okay no matter what your goal is. The only clean. You don't want to drink tap water. You additives. So want to get a good home filter water. A lot of the bottled water is reverse for temporary use, but in the long run it's It has a tendency to rob your body of mineral. So if you use reverse osmosis waters are then you want to add a little bit you drink it. Drink number two is herb tea get something that doesn't have anything artificial. Now the vast majority of herbal teas are going to be totally fine but just make sure that The third drink is apple cider vinegar and this It has no nutrients it has no stimulatory effect no energy value neutral. Alright to all these three totally okay. Next let's talk about tea and coffee so green tea is the one that has the least caffeine, It has about 25 mg per 8 oz, so it's not a whole lot but if you had or 15 or 20 cups throughout the day that's still a lot of caffeine. So I would give it may make a difference and because caffeine you can stimulate your adrenals to make adrenalin Insulin in some people. And for the most part you feel like your body is super sensitive just really really stubborn weight then this for. So if you're drinking green tea and you're less than six to eight cups I'd say you're totally fine. Black tea same story but black on average there's a bigger range on that Don't drink 6 to 8 cups may be limited to three And with coffee again we're getting and basically a doubling of the caffeine on say one or two cups is probably okay but don't sensitive. Alright there are some people for these goals, but it's something to be of. Next up is everyone's favorite bulletproof coffee. What would fasting be without bulletproof Well this is also something that we give a green check mark, but we have a it. Because even though it has virtually no impact on insulin and there is no protein sugar, if you do it right, so it's also safe for autophagy in moderation. We want to understand a lot of energy. It fill / fuels the body to of fat in there and you make about 300 calories there now you're talkin five or 600 calories okay but if you're one of those people have a full caloric intake for a day just from that it's alright from an insulin perspective Because if you put that much fuel into the the body has no reason to burn the fat on your body. Then what about cream? Is cream Yes, because the vast majority of calories in cream come from fat it's over 90% of calories So it has a very very slight insulin response and as long as you keep it to maybe to mess up your goals. So cream is okay. What like skim milk? Well there's a big big difference calories from fat. Skim milk has virtually of which are going to stimulate insulin significantly. Cream is so rich that just a little bit is going to turn your coffee white where skim have to put a lot in there before it looks like So if you use it as a creamer the tendency will be to use a whole lot more it is a really bad idea. It has about three 5% sugar and almost zero fats, so almost all calories come from protein and sugar and it's going to stimulate insulin. Next people wonder the oat milk, the almond milk, the rice milk, And here's the rule, they are okay as long as they don't have sugar added. So milk and cashew milk because a whole cup of it has virtually zero protein and zero carbohydrate. So most of those calories are coming from fat and you have to drink a whole cup to get That means if you put in 3-4 tablespoons into your coffee it's The thing to make sure though is don't get the I would also keep it to less than two cups now you're kind of giving the body a sense I'd probably keep it under a cup. So if you having three cups like a quarter cup or 1/3 of a cup in each Two cups would be really on the high-end and definitely don't So what about bone broth? That's almost synonymous with fasting. And sugar, zero carbohydrate, it has a lot of also, it has mostly protein, has some fat virtually zero carbohydrate. It's also full of gut healing nutrients, and it has a ton So it's a fantastic food and I would say that it's okay if you're looking to have a very slight insulin response. However different for autophagy because autophagy sensitive to protein. It's the lack of protein and calories that drive autophagy. And autophagy is of your courses when your few nutrients and it up regulates its cleaning, It recycles viruses and bacteria in dead cells debris in the body. And if you add a bunch anymore. So you want to keep your proteins That's the protocol recommended by the fasting And bone broth has as much as 10 grams of protein per cup. So if you had two cups then that bone broth probably push you over the edge where you As far as the others go insulin resistance I think you're still If you're looking for autophagy then limit the bone broth you probably okay up to maybe Alright drinks number 12 alcohol is that a good idea? Well I'm going to say no lot and even if it doesn't necessarily kick your liver. And all of these goals depend on disease and there is alcoholic fatty liver then the liver is struggling as it is and a cleanup process, it's the liver that does So whether you have one or more of these goals it's you're trying not the friend of a liver. So if you trying keto, autophagy I would say to stay away from Number 13 green juice. Juice in general is not great, but green juice now that's something greens and it can have a lot of good health But we're going to put a question mark on because it's going to depend on your goal to depend on how much you have and when you So if you have an intermittent fasting pattern let's like that if you have green juice during your it's going to create a bit of a sugar spike. But and you have a carb budget so to speak juice close to a meal like say let's say you it somewhere between your two meals now it's damage right is going to create a little bit when you would have an insulin spike anyway. So I would encourage great quantities but if you're looking to supercharge your body juices is really beneficial for your body bit but count the carbs make sure you know go over maybe 5 grams of sugar in that juice don't create additional insulin spikes in And as far as autophagy goes, autophagy is super sensitive both sugar and protein so I'm pretty sure that it would break whatever trend of autophagy concentrated sugar like juice. So when we're coconut cream, we can do coconut milk to some Isn't it still sort of the same thing and it's full of all Well not really because the coconut water portion has no fat and no protein, And it's very very easy to drink a lot of that stuff so it's it doesn't necessarily have all that much It's sort of those like the green juice if you had just a little bit like you just love it and you feel those minerals would But other than that I would really stay away from coconut water. It has a lot of sugar. It's 2.6% sugar and most of the time people least a pint or half a liter so now you're Number 15 store-bought juice so one we can make an argument for some from fruit or vegetables I don't see any reason has to be pasteurized in order to be sold of the benefits. Most of the enzymes and the polyphenols and whatever else might be in pasteurization so when you put a big red X now is sugar water. Yeah it's a little bit Orange juice is about 8% sugar. Apple juices So if you have a cup you're already getting about 25 grams of sugar in Absolutely not a good idea for any of these protocols no matter what your goal is stay away from store-bought juice. Thanks for you understand some of these principles let's Because a lot of people love soda. that we're not we're going to just dismiss sugar and the high fructose corn syrup because that's the reason most people got in trouble diet soda so now we want to start understanding that should be totally fine because it has free version now it has no stimulants so it's the sweet taste can trigger something called and what does that mean it means that any and you taste it your body the intelligence for the food that is about to come and if it's about to receive nutrients and it may some insulin they've done some studies on some study say that certain artificial sweeteners wouldn't put too much faith necessarily those sweet there is a possibility that your body response and releasing some insulin. So how Well here's how you check it and this is that they drink something sweet the blood around if you drink something sweet but there your body produces insulin your blood sugar So you check your blood sugar before, you have a drink, you check your blood wouldn't worry about it but if you see that you're your body is responding to this it is producing resistance. So we put a question mark on this because going to be okay for most people I would again not recommend the artificial sweeteners but and it has no impact for me so most people is different so you want to figure out you and then figure out and test how it works If you found this helpful make sure you also check out that video thank you so