So your opponent brings out his queen in the You were not expecting this so you don't know how worry guys, I'm here to help. In this video, I'll method to not only counter, but also punish any I would like to thank BetterHelp for sponsoring aware of the common opening traps. So, in the this pawn. If you casually attack the queen like rook is finished. Therefore, you need to save move. Another common trap comes after bishop then we have a Scholar's mate &amp; its game over in In most of these traps, this f7 square is going Alright, my next tip is to develop quickly &amp; useful especially if your opponent is obsessed valuable piece on the board, you can easily attack if he tries to eliminate our knight &amp; grab this Let's say he is still adamant about picking the sweety. If he goes back, now you can throw a e3 results in a beautiful family fork. And if he up these diagonals. And look at this, white just the meanwhile, we have activated all our pieces black. So whenever you get a chance, try to gain knights &amp; bishops. Now sometimes your opponent's his queen early. In that case, don't panic, don't here he attacks on f7, we force him to push back. f6. And now let's say his queen just stays there there's no way you can attack this queen to gain Take the king to safety. And if he tries any of looks good, open up the game &amp; then take advantage important to be patient &amp; not get too flustered by your pieces &amp; only then launch an attack. Okay, every possible threat from the queen. For example, a very good attack. Again, he's threatening a go with the tried &amp; tested, knight f6. Now if your natural reaction would be to defend. But if could be a great option because now you start a check, after the king moves, white does not have it can't move because it has to defend the eventually it has to move away &amp; you win a piece. you can not only defend, but also come up with right in the opening. My next piece of advice is get an opportunity, counter attack in the center. after knight f6, your opponent tries g4. His idea threat on f7. Instead of playing a defensive the center with the knight. It's a double punch you can breakthrough in the center. If he really deadly threat. If he tries blocking centralising the other knight, offering a fork &amp; Going back, instead of the pawn, if he blocks black has a mate in 2 moves. Give it a try &amp; comments. Anyway, the point is that by attacking defensive &amp; then finish him off. My next tip to of sacrificing pawns to gain activity. Here's an The queen is out in the open so you threaten activate another piece. This time he is going it, but it is fine if you actually let him take. time, and you continue your assault going after pieces, and black has zero development. So, if running around with his queen to grab a few your lead in development will open up a lot of show you how you can practically combine all these But before that, I would like to thank the last few months have been stressful was being affected. That's when I thought of therapy service &amp; it's 100% online. When we're it is very important to take the help 25,000 licensed and experienced therapists who started, just answer a few questions about your match you to a suitable professional therapist. time &amp; schedule live sessions over text, phone or required, you can even change your therapist at no more convenient and affordable than traditional you to start living a happier life right now! BetterHelp.com/ChessTalk , that's better-h-e-l-p description box below, so go and check it out. counter early queen attacks. Now let's see how your own games. This is the first game. White has along, refer these pointers &amp; try to find the is no immediate threat at the moment, we can He adds a defender, opening up this diagonal so we can continue with maybe the knight or the I have just been following basic opening move. Can you spot the threat from the queen? Yes, Is there any way to counter-attack? I don't think would come with a check &amp; it's a central pawn so, and develop. So, we've sacked the g pawn &amp; he has queen with tempo. H6 is the only safe square for he is already on the backfoot. But how do you take be to open up the game &amp; counter attack in the an even better way to finish him off right away. which is quite obvious - and that is to look for Yes, it's the bishop sacrifice. If he takes, but to move the king. What next? Now since the aggressive options. You can open up the center The queen runs all the way back and now the bishop action. Just look at all his pieces! They haven't Anyway, he wants us to retreat. But do you want to go for the kill right away &amp; of course it's easy-peasy. In fact, it's a mate in own &amp; share your answers in the comments. Alright, now let's look at another game. This time queen advance. At the moment, there is nothing to we can also attack in the center. Okay, so he Developing this bishop is a good option, but diagonal to harass the queen. Even if he takes, the pawn. Again, you have a few options. You can these pawns and open up this deadly d file. For we even have the bishop on this lovely diagonal. that's a checkmate! So he hasn't done that! Okay, now he decides to take. You can recapture the knight I feel is better because we can put if we bring out this bishop as well. Great, so we are also attacking the queen. Now its just it is all about tactics. Its +10 for white. easily. Anyway, the point of showing these games you can easily punish any type of early queen please do hit the Like button below