All right let's cut to the chase. tell you that consumerism is bad, actually terrible and this is why I Do you think they bought it? Ok, well here's what I really think. On average Americans are spending up to $18,000 at restaurants, memberships and subscriptions, This amount averages out to be about $1497 spent But.... Does that make you a bad Not necessarily. I'd be lying to you if I said that I don't things--on occasion, or eat out when a new recipe See, I am not against consumerism. I am irresponsibly, and without a purpose. This is how we end up with stuff we don't need amount of items we place the "just-in-case" label So I'm not going to try and convince in the spirit of minimalism and mindful it matters why you buy. And to me, that's Here are six minimalist habits to Number one is defining your Peer pressure and social media manipulation neither need nor care about. But that We each have our own unique set of social pressures and spending triggers--which But take me for example. I value living an active and healthy lifestyle. That is a And because of that, I purchase products And to me, that's where the key lies in Separating wants from needs So before you spend money, spend differences between wishes and necessities--wants and needs for you and your life. Because it's Generally speaking: Wants are Maybe your friends told you about it but you Needs on the other hand are They can be seen as an investment in yourself Alright, number two on my list is understanding A very common idea within the minimalism reducing how much you consume has its place, but And intentional consumption is all Trying to understand why you bought something. you can then gradually adopt your own And a major benefit of this is that over will be the result of a thought And this small tweak will also have an Because now all of sudden you're beginning to Whereas before you may not have had because of your spending Speaking of spending money, number three Most of us are not fully aware of what vague memory of only the purchases we But this lack of purchase awareness is how in some cases completely and And despite the consequences of not doing this, there are still many people who don't So my encouragement to you is to download an app or familiarize yourself with and start keeping track of your finances. Every You'll soon feel more organized, more aware, and Number four is don't copy other people. Keeping up with the Joneses is a major consumption I attempted to because keeping up with the See, buying things in an effort to impress, keep Some reasons why are one: most people And trying to impress them is like asking Two: keeping up with the Joneses And three: the people you cross paths with in life differ from yours. So attempting to copy what they So don't do that. Instead redirect that energy your own style, pursuing your own This will definitely help prevent need and wasting money you don't have to waste. Number five is delaying major purchases. Comment below if you remember that JG years ago. It was really catchy. It Well, the "I want it now" portion of that purchases they want to make, and ultimately enough these purchases turn into regret that then So my proposal is that we so we can improve the mechanics of our decisions, See this delay argument refers to more expensive, non-everyday purchases. But you can feel free to And as a bonus, if you're feeling fancy, For example, delaying any purchase of Or whatever that set dollar amount is for you. Alright last but not least, number six is to re-evaluate products In my opinion, this is a drastically more about our purchase behavior but to a similar pace to us evolving and growing in life. Here's what I mean by that. Maybe you're already doing a good job at you delay major purchases, you're you're tracking your spending, and keeping And that's wonderful, but where we tend to fall is not reevaluating and letting Because as we evolve and grow in life our new set of interests and purchases. Which But at the same time, we have to "Hey is this product still serving a purpose in my I consider this a great purchase that I'd happily point that my surroundings--be that the things I I hope you found this conversation you to take a deeper look at why And if it did, comment below so Keep growing, keep learning, I'll see you in the next one. Peace!