Gout sounds like a horrifically on by affluence that was and a sign of wealth. Though we know now what causes caused by a rich diet that mostly affects men. It was a malady met back in the glory days of gout. Today we're talking of kings, that is, gout. But before we dip be sure to subscribe to the us know about what would like to hear more about. Now get your We're going gouting. Gout is an arthritic condition Clinic as sudden, severe attacks and tenderness in the at the base of the big toe. It's not surprising affected by gout lovingly as agonizing. In the late 17th century, wrote that gout was so endure the weight of the clothes from a person's walking Translated roughly to gout was painful as [BLEEP]. So painful, in wear clothes or be in a room around. Take your impatient Thomas likened the to that of a is not a favorable condition In the 19th century, described his gout flareups as So, yeah, good luck on from your brain. Much like Robin Hood, gout was the rich. From the earliest himself, gout was linked and heavy alcohol consumption, could afford. Due to this fact, gout as the disease of a bit of a humble brag, since it was a and gross proof of wealth. Poor people were priced out In an 1900 comment from the the common cold is well named, to raise the patient's meaning gout sufferers were of their times. Hashtag meatfoot, Medical treatments for as making any From acupuncture down to consuming and the Byzantine like a lot of throwing darts at But the strangest came from a 1518 medical for better health. Eat a fluffy little kitten. Physician Lorenz Fries treatment recipe as, roast with chopped kittens, and flower of rye. No, but we aren't done yet. Once you eat this take the drippings from this table centerpiece and apply as one would with BenGay. And just to state the this concoction The closest to a were the Byzantine's used to treat gout, which is and not from You know what they say Well, they took that extremely to the 18th century. Many during this time thought because nobody ever understood In 1588, essayist Michel when a man's leg were the genital parts are and more vigorous. Nasty and wrong. Gout of the junk is not a to your Bumble profile. In 1693, a Dutch writer, of how a human body because it allowed men to due to the whole in so and must lay down He said, for when a patient is forced to lie who knows the trace their source can easily and at his that the loins and the If you should find yourself please go to a no matter how excited The oldest description of by Hippocrates himself. He believed gout was the into the joints and claimed condition to be incurable. Hippocrates stated, with the gout who in their joints, who and whose bowels are of medicine to cure. Hippocrates went on cute little nicknames, terming and arthritis of the noticed the correlation of an and wine and contracting For centuries, the most understood trait associated with The ancient Greeks referred or foot grabber, due to the to settle in and get of the poor or, in most gout sufferers. In the 17th century, our noticed this, too, waking up a patient with a the great toe, but sometimes or the ankle. Today, doctors chalk up due to the extremities as other parts of the body. The big toe, in a build up of urate source and favorite food because The Boston Tea toward the American Revolution before Twitter, may not have William Pitt the Elder, was suffering a gout flareup of the Stamp Act in 1764. Once he was better, Pitt saying Americans are the sons, As subjects they are entitled representation and cannot be their consent. Yet another tinge of gout another parliament meeting to impose a high to the American colonies, into a river over a boat to tell stick their higher taxed tea. If only Pitt had been the Boston Tea Party may Henry VIII, who we just was a hot-tempered who got rid of a couple his lack of male heir. But did you know Yes, but hardly the only ruler of the disease of kings. Decades earlier, the Florence was so sick with nicknamed Piero the Gouty than we have today. Benjamin Franklin, too, Benji the big gout baby wrote a saying Madame Gout, to merit these cruel sufferings? Gout did write back to him. Many things. You have ate and drank indulged those legs of Pretty cool to write fan fiction disease, but that's Another leader who fell victim was Emperor Charles included territories of America. Charles was a gout boy, but like the one that changed the Due to his meaty diet and including a novelty-sized mug I'm sure everyone his gout flareups were so with the French he After the French our meaty emperor was suffering so brutally he called to recapture it from them an important victory and Charles basically said, don't before abdicating his throne where nobody expected and he could suffer without having to do things. Those who came down were advised to stay But in the interim, doctors and let's face it, cute For centuries, doctors to relieve inflammation, a common stool for and not a magical Doctors would also wrap and told patients to to pass, which could Advice also given to parents in too, became wrapped in flannel. Just wait for it to pass. By the early 20th century, and designed a glass boot, which to treat the symptoms of gout. While the heat might have it unfortunately also made Heat could dislodge from its cozy home in the to the kidneys, which were far for uric acid, as the and the patient could perish. Gout is caused by of uric acid in the blood. Estrogen provides protection making them less likely However, as women age estrogen decreases while their unlike their opportunities for Doctors have also likes to keep it in to 80% of gout sufferers come sufferers. Nepotism does work First recognized as a by Alfred Baring continues to affect millions In fact, doctors are with the affliction in the United States alone. As the US population becomes with food and wine being so eh, I'll start it should probably expect those As should gout's social status, Cheney are two notable people So have you had Do you feel shame? Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.