The Great Tantra of Vajrasattva - equal to the farthest reaches of the sky. In the Great Perfection, contemplation It bears fruit. We embody just this and Consider these three things: the real meaning of material phenomena; a path free of seeking, our eternal heart; and the fruition that comes on its own, not due to seeking or striving. These three are equal and inseparable but require three different modes of setting forth. The ground, the way and the goal come about by virtue of a Wisdom that is self-existent, uncaused. This Wisdom brings radiant joy to contemplatives, and the light of clarity to their thoughts. This Wisdom arises naturally in its own way. It is uncreated and uncon- trived, present within us primordially, not It is inherently perfect. It is an unperturbed clarity, a domain that comes into being on its own, a continuum of tranquility of which we become aware, but which It is unobstructedly radiant, an awareness of which we become cognizant and which we come to recognize as the essence of our understandings. It is self-luminous, beyond visualization, not part of any object. Nothing need be generated, and there is no reason to practice deity generation. The heart of enlightenment is uncaused and unceasing. Where all is one, how could there enlightenment, in clear self-awareness is perfection beyond our seeking and striving. The true condition has no location and cannot be visualized. Uncontrived, self-originating, beyond conditions, there is nothing about it that has anything to do with a material view of Reality. It has no connection to words, representations or expressions, as we can see from our direct experience. We see this from our firsthand knowledge arising from familiarisation. It bears no relation to the extremes we fall into when using conceptual designations. There is nothing that can designate it, which places it outside the domain of our intellectual certitude or uncertitude. Right from the beginning, the true It is ever perfect, in a realm completely removed from the fantasy of our thought-bound minds. It is ever present at all times, come what may. Present in all appearances, a singleness that is uncompromised, it pierces our preoccupation with appearances, and is far beyond anything that could be the object of our seeking. Because of its invisible equanimity, whatever we intend appears, and although the true condition is no thing whatsoever, it can bring forth the appearance of any thing whatsoever. Like the radiant heart of the sun, it is beyond measurement, relatedness and comparisons. The precious jewel of mind itself beyond conceptual designations which we use to take in and grasp appearances. The heart-essence of our Wisdom, knows nothing at all, yet is This Wisdom, clear within itself, is inseparable from perfection and as we experience it, comes to us as both appearances and The abode of self-arising Wisdom a point of entry for many other portals. Though incomprehensible, if rightly recognized it is an abode where we dwell in oneness. The supreme secret of the of jewels with many doors and is to Self-radiant awareness is perfection and method for discussing the This tantra is vast as the sky It is the most precious preserve of When we get involved with vows, mandalas, stages and paths we are inadvertently cherishing We think of the supreme truth in terms of categories and are bound up in our chosen practices. Everything that we appropriate or renounce in this way constitutes a deviation and an obstruction. Reality is non-dual. When we get we are going backwards. We break up and misunderstand the essential unity of truth. We strive to build up something pure within the emptiness of the invisible clear light, which is a fundamental contradiction. The ultimate view is utterly unchained from preoccupations When we seek and strive, we are separated from the inner treasure of our heart's essence. The Great Perfection view is self-radiant There are limitations obstructing the light of Wisdom, but the clear light of awareness is The All-Good is endlessly playful. Inherently perfect, unstoppable awareness arises from so it is that the spontaneous play of our uncontrived heart-essence fills the whole of space, beyond all our concepts of centre or The Wisdom of this awareness dawns on us instantaneously. Without any action on our part, the perfection of Wisdom becomes obvious to us. The samadhi which arises out of comes about spontaneously and is do not let it be disturbed. It pierces Samsara is Wisdom unrecognized. Inconceivable fruition comes to its skylike fullness within samsara. Offering all that we have and are, we melt into the self-originating luminosity of Wisdom. Through our spontaneous self-offering, free of calculation, we taste the We are to immerse ourselves in this without hesitation. In the domain of the inherent luminosity of all things, we are perfected. One who opens this portal of radiant and complete comprehension will come upon a This glowing treasure of the mandala of awareness It reveals its full perfection the beatitude of unperturbed samadhi. Abiding in an equanimity that we have let go of our grasping Primordially we are liberated reference points and preferences. Here in the luminosity of our heart's core, we are liberated from any cherishing of opinions concerning meditation, non-meditation, and so on. This luminous Wisdom is a unique treasure that harbours no intellectual opinions. The eye of Wisdom has no dualistic knowledge and does not see in terms of duality. It arises in the heart's inmost intent, something we cannot lay hold of by thinking. Being the treasure of all that is, it The nondual nature of Reality overwhelms our predilection for seeking and active practices. Unconcerned with what transpires, awareness is pristine in its own space of Being Like the stars in the sky, self luminous, undefiled, it is perfect in its own domain. Vajrasattva is, in Reality, a continuum of pure, uncontrived awareness. Come to firsthand knowledge of the joy that comes untrammeled, free of complexity, unrelated to causes and conditions. Make no attempt to visualize the clear light of pristine awareness. It is precious equanimity that abides beyond agitation and grasping. This treasure, this fullness, this self-radiant (inner) sun abides in all. It is a perfect circularity, undistorted, in which samsara and nirvana have never actually transpired. In the heart of enlightenment, samsara and sorrow are merely the play of the All Good (Samantabhadra), and the five poisons of lust, aversion, dullness, arrogance and jealousy reveal Wisdom is all-pervading like the light of the sun. It is an all-healing flow of compassion Pristine awareness is utterly This inherently luminous awareness is undefiled, unadulterated by our notions. This treasure of equanimity to any point of reference and exists as it actually is, unadulterated, regardless of whether we turn to it or not. Our human happiness and our human sorrows are both confusions of samsara. They are non-dual in their true condition and perfected in the light of our heart's Wisdom. Whether we know it or not, we abide in the sphere of inherently luminous awareness It is the treasury of the sky, unobstructed, wherein the five elements arise and move, actively present in all things, not inherently real, but emanating from the Reality of their source. It cannot be seen, for it is inherent an unobstructed flow of blessings. It It is the treasury of all blessings, the There is nothing that needs to be done. Everything has already been accomplished, primordially. Beneficent energies flow from the inherent luminosity where nothing needs doing We fabricate the concepts which fill our minds in order to designate and grasp the utter simplicity of the true condition When we abide in the light of wisdom, however, the obscurations of our limiting notions melt away and our innate clarity is uncovered We no longer need to approach Truth through the fog of definitions and grammar We know the meanings behind the symbols In the heart of luminous wisdom, we abide in clarity, free of concepts We abide in luminous awareness, We cut through concepts about It is not something we ponder, nor has The light of Wisdom shines and no preferences. Inconceivable are the blessings of this clear light. Fortunate ones are able to abide in the samadhi of infinite luminous Wisdom, the awareness of totality which dissolves aversion and ill-will, dullness and craving, pride and jealousy. The delight of the single taste in all appearances enters into our every experience by way of a Dharma requiring no practice or comprehension. mind need not search. In the clear light of Wisdom, in the heart of the sky of awareness, we come to know the true significance of what could never be expressed in written words. This Tantra Equal To The is an elixir which carries you into the Here, you possess a treasure which Awareness abides in a realm that is This is nothing that we need and there is no need to visualize any special levels of practice, or attainment either. Be clear on this point: the intellect is Uncontrived awareness is the way we engage the Wisdom that transcends all obscurations. We abide naturally in a continuum of awareness, where there is no searching and nothing to do. This awareness, something that we do not try to search for or grasp, is that into which we enter. We do not see awareness as a goal to attain. We simply settle into a consciousness of uncontrived light, not following methodologies or The intrinsic radiance of Wisdom thoughts or considerations, it seeks no designated results. It is clear light, completely beyond any notion of desired outcomes. All-inclusive, it is not something Here, in this pure space, the hopes and fears we typically cherish are present no longer. The Reality of inherently radiant awareness cannot be indicated or represented to the human mind by way of words or concepts It can come through transmission, but never by explication and when it comes it carries the taste of bliss We abide eternally in the clear light itself, something quite impossible to define The self transmission of wisdom's light cannot be distorted by playing it up or playing it down We accept what is, the way it is, with no attempt at manipulation Once we have direct experience of we will be wary of any attempt to We would never dream of trying to actively practice it. We choose rather the way of non-striving. We simply allow the true condition to We do not conceptualize nirvana and then strive for it, or entertain notions that foster samsara. Our liberated intellect abides in a luminous samadhi that has no horizon. Being undistracted, we pay no regard to anything that comes and goes, arising only to disappear. The bounteous power of our uncontrived heart-essence outshines all other preoccupations, Samsara is simply the play of the We make no effort to accrue merit or expunge negative karma, or to fabricate desired outcomes We are like birds abiding in the vastness of the sky, happy to navigate the ups and downs of samsara and its magical illusions, not apart from the continuum of the true nature. Inconceivable is the power The radiance of Wisdom is constant, beyond alteration, beyond coming and going. The light of compassion equally is The wind of thinking activity is nowhere to be found in the luminous continuum of Wisdom. Wisdom knows no bondage Just as an oil lamp without fuel does not generate fire, we so a mind that is concept-free is not engaged in thinking activity. We are free of ideation. We do not reflect on any topic. This is nothing special, When we give voice to some topic of we have set foot on a false path. The mind of equanimity has no interest in boundaries, centers or designated areas. The essence of our hearts comes to the fore as the sun of Wisdom dawns and in the treasury of self-revealing awareness it achieves its perfect expression. Non-dual awareness is the sole instrument by which we grow into that which cannot grasped Non-dual living is like water flowing into water. The sun of radiant Wisdom burns away samsara and pervades all that is. This is not something to be to be grasped or believed. It is simply The highest Reality cannot be apprehended by points of view or anyone's preferred notions. There is nothing fixed in any fashion whatsoever in the way that Reality actually exists, contrived or uncontrived, centerless and borderless, neither in this location nor in that, but rather abiding in its own realm, an This primordial equanimity does its opposite. The furthest reach of thought is transcendence of thinking activity altogether. Wisdom cannot be reproached for having no center, boundary or demarcation. The obscurations of ignorance Nothing is outside the mandala of radiant Wisdom. The world of the all-good, the continuum of pristine awareness, is not any discreet thing whatsoever. It is ceaseless, unstoppable, imponderable, beyond anything that can be contemplated or studied. We abide in the state of self-liberation, uncontrived supreme mind, not at rest in the depths of a samadhi