- [Narrator] This episode I used Squarespace to build and BingingWithBabish.com. On the sites, you'll find other news and updates, if I do say so myself, get 10% off your first Squarespace order by visiting squarespace.com/babish. - Moment of truth is here. We're gonna flip this I love it. That's a baby. Look at all the layers of the the bechamel just barely visible, but that makes it creamy and delicious. - [Chef] All it is a little A slab will be of the lasagna - [Host] Oh my god, that's so beautiful. - [Alvin] Hello there. Welcome back to another where I attempt to create that I like to watch in my spare time. This episode, we're going which is a dish that although seems crazy, of restaurants around the world. This one in particular is in Toronto. Now, I've had a bit of experience but the restaurant version of The huge lasagna baked in a and chilled and cut into small sections to be served crispy for the diners. And I think that's a great idea. So we're gonna do it 'cause it's fun. First things first is the pasta. Now we could use store-bought noodles, but I think those would So we need these very, very, very thin to be able to layer properly. In order to make this a lot of two food processors, 16 or 2080 grams, 24 eggs total, and eight teaspoons of kosher salt. These ingredients are between each food processor and just set to pulse almost a ball stage. Then I'm gonna turn these with some bench flour and kneed until the nice supplements smooth and my wrists have been So after a little bit of for Rachel's help to come in and do a lot of the heavy lifting. Thank you, Rachel. You're making this a lot better and you definitely know how to kneed pasta dough a lot more than I do. These two dough balls have been wrapped up and kneeded nicely. They're gonna go into the fridge and rest. We'd repeat our whole process again. Now that our dough has been prepped, we're going to move on to the sauces. We're gonna get started which does require quite First I'm going to roughly which have been peeled. These are just gonna get and you'll see why in a bit. Then we're gonna follow or stalks of celery with and again chopped up into rough chunks. Instead of hand chopping I thought we might as well just for this one 'cause it's all and would probably make We're gonna put the carrots and the celery in another. Just blitzing them until broken down all the way. What a beautiful color we have here. These vegetables are all going to combine in one giant mixing bowl, like work on our onions. I'm gonna go ahead and take off the skins and cut them into halves the food processor, we're also gonna go with 20 garlic cloaks split between the food processes as well. These are gonna get blitzed out until they turn into and they go to the rest for a giant vegetable fiesta. Kind of looks like mashed potatoes. It's funny how the one with the carrots in it so it couldn't looks like Now that our vegetables to give them a nice cook. So in a huge Dutch oven, We're gonna go ahead and and once that gets simmering nice and hot, we're gonna go ahead and throw in all of our and letting them cook and soften. This is going to take a while. So while that goes, we're gonna go ahead and get started on our in a large roasting tray, we're gonna throw in one and a half pounds of pancetta, which has been diced into small pieces. We're gonna let the fat brown itself, and once it gets crispy, we're of ground beef and three breaking down those lumps until everybody has started Once everything is thoroughly combined, I decided it would be a by splitting these into two pans each just to create more surface area the whole time through. Half of the vegetable mixture and the meat mixture among two evenly sized Now there's a lot of fat and I don't think we need that and use some paper towels to Once the meat is looking very brown and started to crisp up we're gonna transfer one because now it has We're gonna go ahead and to our rice crispy browned meat mixture. Stir that around, let the cook down, and then we're gonna deglaze of red wine while we put the other bottle of red wine into our meat mixture. Oh look, fire. Now that's cool. Now that a red wine is also cooked down and a lot of the alcohol has we're gonna put this beautiful vegetables, dividing it half among each. Then they're gonna get some of them, and we're also gonna between the both of them and some flavor and some liquid. Once the liquids have been added, we're gonna take both off the heat and transfer the mixture from stainless steel pot. Now we're gonna add in nine cans of pureed tomatoes as well as four tablespoons I love to add a little bit of brown sugar to my pasta sauce just to emphasize the Now, once these are done, 350 degrees for about two to three hours until they're nice and bubbly. Now that our massive amount of for, it's time to work on the be melt or the white sauce for our lasagna. Instead of a ricotta of western lasagnas, this would probably make a lot from Italian lasagna. So a white sauce that is my way to go. In a large pot, we're gonna and brown two sticks of butter. Usually you don't brown it, 'cause well, it has a Once the butter has been evenly browned, I'm adding in one cup of flour and stirring to make sure the raw flour taste has been cooked out. Then once the roux has been nicely formed, we can add in one gallon making sure that it gets a chance to work at all of those lumps before adding more, or a pancake batter. Once the milk has been slowly added and our sauce looks relatively lump free, we're gonna bring this up to a simmer so that the flour has a time Then we're gonna add our of grading fresh nutmeg of ground pepper and a tablespoon of salt. Our white sauce is now ready. Now it's time to turn those as many lasagna sheets as possible. Now in the 100 layers it's not actually 100 layers of pasta. It's 33 layers of pasta, and 33 layers of white sauce of pasta or some more white sauce on top. So we're gonna need about 33 layers of freshly made lasagna sheets, which is quite a lot of pasta. So we're gonna try to get I'm taking each of these pasta balls, cutting them into quarters and working with that one at a time. I'm starting from the lowest setting, which is at the one in the and then actually re-laminating and starting it back again from one. This is going to create and some better structure So I like to do that at least once before proceeding to roll it These you're gonna get really, really thin 'cause I'm going all the Meanwhile, Rachel is over but she has to use the to enjoy the luxuries of an Thank you, Rachel, for again, After these sheets get super long and thin, I'm gonna go ahead and trim them into large flat sheets. Approximately the width or the length of our hotel pan, process takes us about two hours or so. It's a lot of manual rolling, and just trying to balance this pasta delicately on the back of your hands. But it is quite fun to of pasta dough, almost After our pasta dough has as they can shaped and and cook these pasta sheets. Now these are super thin They only need about a minute So I have three pans here, and we're gonna cook all of that everything is ready for our assembly. Now, for the daunting task, making and layering all 100 The biggest one we could which is about six to seven inches deep and the size of a sheet tray, First I'm gonna take some oil and oil down the sides of this pan and then put enough that while we're layering this, this has an easy release, Then we begin our layering. We start with a layer of pasta and followed by a layer of to be relatively not so generous to make sure that we can get So we're gonna first start out by spreading the thinly and giving it a nice few dollops making sure that it also Three layers down, 97 to go. We're gonna repeat the and over again, starting with meat sauce and spreading a thin layer of bechamel right on top. Approximately 15 layers through, I forgot that we were supposed of the bechamel I'm grading that doesn't count as a layer, but it should add to And after an hour or so, we're approximately halfway through. We've gotten up to 50 layers and well, there's 50 more to go, so we just buckle down Pasta, meat sauce, meat sauce, bechamel, cheese. It's quite satisfying to and larger in height. After about two hours or so, we realized that we and we were counting the whole time. Steve and Rachel have been layering process and counting each time we move up a different layer. We got to 88 layers before but we still have meat sauce and bechamel leftover, so we're gonna keep Rachel and Kendall found some that usually make lasagna with so we're just gonna cook those off and use that to fill our remaining layers. I'm not saying it's fate, but the amount of dry lasagna to 100 layers with no extra. Now I think that's pretty cool. For the final layer, I'm and putting in a lot of mixing that together and just to get nice and brown and crispy. We're gonna put this in for about three hours. It was gonna be really late by the time lasagna was finished cooking, so we did ask Andrew to and take it out after the three hour mark. So thank you, Andrew for doing that. Oh, it's a little crispy Probably should have at some point. That was our mistake, for taking this out, covering that it is nicely sealed. Andrew is now gonna put this which is off because and that seems to be the best way to naturally refrigerate this thing 'cause it won't fit in the fridge. This is me coming to retrieve We're gonna go ahead and take this downstairs and see what we got. Oh yeah, top layer is definitely, too, too charred for my taste but I think this one's Let's take off the top layer and see. Let's just treat that as a sacrifice for the other 99 layers. Oh yeah, don't eat that. That's definitely burnt. After trimming off the parts it is time to flip this thing, it's almost gonna fall out. Just better. Go ahead and flip it. Boom, that looks pretty cool. Really nice color on the outside there. Didn't even need the parchment, it just kind of slid right out. Perfect. Now that's a lot of lasagna. Now for the reveal, we're gonna go ahead and trim off the sides to and also to create cleaner Oh, here we go. Whoa, that looks pretty cool. It's like a super compressed, which is exactly what we did. It's always interesting to me that even though we laid as we assembled it, you always patterns that go on. I'm not exactly sure why that happens, but it looks pretty cool. Wanna clean this up and make off and nicely squared away. Making sure to save all of those trimmings as snacks for later. And then we're gonna go ahead and just for fun, grate a bunch of cheese and put some parsley on top, even though this is not we serve this, but I will say this is a pretty good looking You can't really hear it, crowding around and just of this crazy thing that we made, and I think that's usually a good sign. So in the restaurant, how for the size that they can portions to be able to So that's exactly what we're gonna do. We're gonna go ahead and cut of lasagna, make sure to a normal portion size, and we're gonna sear this in of butter to make sure once this is seared on has gotten a chance to caramelize we're gonna go ahead and get ready to plate it on a nice pool and a generous helping of and a sprinkling of to compliment the final dish. And I present to you our version of the 100 layer lasagna found in restaurants across the world. But the real question is, after all this work, all this labor and all that time, how does it taste? You kind of need that extra and extra cheese for the saltiness of seared lasagna even tastier. I think that's a really cool of having to scoop it out of a nice dish. We also made sure that absolutely 0% of this lasagna was wasted. All of those trimmings and to be trimmed up and for our entire studio to take home. Each person probably took home one to two giant gallon Ziploc bags with breaks of lasagna in it. It's going to be a great holiday. - [Narrator] Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring today's episode. They've been a great partner in supporting the Babish culinary universe and bringing my websites to life. From websites to online stores Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for you to build your online presence. They also have SEO tools so that your site is getting found in search by more people more often. If you wanna try it for yourself, you can start your free trial today by visiting squarespace.com/babish to get 10% off your first purchase. (bright music)