"Look, I told you, I don't know anything!" "Not good enough" "Are you going to bubble out yet" Yeah, that's basically what I've been Trying to find out how much and how quickly of that are. While there's no question that filaments need to be kept in a moisture-controlled storage PLA or PETG, it's not that clear. Sure, PETG does absorb some moisture and you'll it be, and is PLA just generally fine to be That's some of the things that I tried to grades of humidity and running some tests. And not everything went exactly as expected. But what you can definitely expect is a message OpenBuilds makes it easy to design and build cutters to CNC routers. With their open-source robotics hardware, the de-facto standard for affordable 3D printers, part store, you're going to get them in They carry everything you need from router kits to all the individual components if you Check out the OpenBuilds Part Store and get So in this video I'll be trying to get a absorbing moisture. I've got a lot of open filament up on shelves will keep things in check and I shouldn't But while I feel like PLA is mostly fine and does start to show just a bit more stringing filaments like ABS or ASA, I think do smell So that's the three things that you might in mechanical properties, with PLA, I don't but for example parts printed from wet PETG What's happening here is that as the water as it gets heated in the hotend, that motion chains that give a plastic its durability. So even though your parts might look fine, they might perform very differently than what That's actually a similar reason why resin have shorter polymer chains, because optimizing to print with. Anyway, the second thing you might see is Again, as the moisture boils off, it creates molten filament around, and in a hotend there's You overall just get less precise control And the third thing, increased amounts of And this one is hard to measure, but thankfully this. What we can notice is an odor, but what can the print. As the filaments moisture content or the hotend and ultra-fine particles drastically increase, healthy anymore to be in the same room with So yes, this was something that I did notice, tests. I do have two particle sensors, so this might So what exactly did I test? Well, the first question was, how can I quantify much of a difference it makes? So the first one should be fairly easy - grab and just weigh the filament samples fresh moisture. So I did that. For these tests, I'm using all-Prusa parts, also has built-in factory tuned profiles for I could have saved a whole lot of print time known whether what we're seeing is my profiles So I roughly measured out roughly 15m long to print my samples and a bit extra, and they The first set stayed here in the studio, with cool, it's around 18 to 20degC, but there 50% relative humidity. So fairly good conditions to store filament Of course, it's still better to store it I also did with the remainder of the spools with what is 100% fresh filament. But the next set of filament samples went days, a bit below freezing a couple of nights, that the filament is getting, but just to end of the scale, I also dumped some samples Like, actually, submerged them and let them Short of heating up the water or pressurizing samples would be absorbing any more humidity I labeled all the filaments, let them sit them before starting to print with them. And this is where things started going wrong. Because I absolutely couldn't measure any looked to have even lost weight according So this scale supposedly has a 10mg resolution It doesn't. Not even close. Turns out it does at best 50mg, and usually With a sample weight of around 50g, that's advertised 0.2%, and it's just not enough Nylon can absorb as much as 10% water by weight, more around 1%, so there's no chance I could Oh well. What followed was a full week of printing had a part come loose and I was really starting going to be enough, but in the end, it barely With these plates, I printed each of the parts one by one. Octolapse really doesn't seem to get along So we've got, of course, a 3D Benchy for my filaween bend test, printed laying down down and standing up to see whether layer These were all done with the Prusa Slicer and are not solid parts. The important bit to me is that they're stuff. But let's start out with visual quality, First, stringing, as expected, does increase but differently for each material. PLA doesn't seem that affected, but you each step between fresh, stored indoors, stored PETG has more noticeable degradation, but chimney is now all swollen up and overextruded, This is the area of the Benchy where the printer as it's being printed, and I guess with that allows it to get cooked more thoroughly in pushing out filament. ASA is somewhere in between these two, with a larger increase in stringing between the Also, the underwater filament really smelled still printing ABS. Overall, every single filament was already For PLA, it was not that bad, but it's still didn't think there would be. But it's there. The other thing that was noticeable was actual areas like, again, the Benchy's chimney The main thing I'm noticing is either a almost like Colorfabb's foaming LW-PLA, instead of true crystal clear with PETG. Which, honestly, could actually be desirable up a light source, for example. Though this extra foaming is really only noticeable So if you see this on your own prints, well, So, okay, optically, there is a very noticeable But what about strength? Well, remember how I said "things *started* continues. Because I couldn't actually measure a difference So you know the Filaween testing sets, I've actual scientifically precise tests because reasonable effort. So there is some variance in there, there results, so if, for example, two results are all, that's not enough for me to say "this in practice, you're most likely not going Sure, printing more samples would improve as-is. I'm just going to show you the graphs, ok? So this is the bend test, where I take the a sharp kink, and there's, well, not much. Which is surprising, honestly. My prediction would have been that, at least in bend strength, but with these tests always seeing practically no dip in strength, even something that I'm going to have to take Now, keep in mind that the lack of extrusion you're getting weaker parts overall, but the material itself got significantly weaker. For the impact tests, there was something impact strength for all materials, but given don't think this is significant enough. The layer adhesion tests are basically all ones don't seem particularly trustworthy. So there might be something there, but this So what do we learn here? Couple takeaways here that I'm going to First of all, seven days of exposure to an degrade print quality, even for PLA. PLA is most likely fine to be stored in a but there's still a quality gain to be had PETG and ASA definitely gain a lot from being and have had your filament sitting out in first. This was actually going to be the main part it's in an oven or in a drybox, like the suitable scale to measure stuff, I had to So while print quality and dimensional accuracy look like material strength decreases too So if you just need strong, and not-too-precise out in the open could actually be totally But, as always, there's definitely more Thanks to everyone who's supporting the sharing, or even directly through Patreon Thank you. And thanks everyone for watching, keep on Bye!