Loosely turning edged wood round with the roughing gouge - something completely new is created in just a few seconds. The lathe is one of the oldest machines. Woodworking has fascinated people for thousands of years. When the chisel glides over the log and the chips fly off and the new shape is created and the raw piece becomes a smooth piece - that's beautiful. The fascination of turning: the art of shaping everyday objects from wood is becoming increasingly popular. In his turning workshop in Neckarsteinach near Heidelberg , Martin Weinbrecht creates handicrafts from wood . Yes, I am turning a pepper mill today, more precisely: a combination of pepper mill and salt shaker. And because this is a technical product, I made a drawing from which I took the measurements. And I thought it would look nice if we used a dark wood and a light wood for it. The chunks could look like this. I'll go to the lumber store and find something nice to go with it. The workshop is spacious. Martin Weinbrecht gives courses for amateurs and professionals here. (creaks) A lot of interesting pieces of wood have accumulated in his storage over the decades . That could be something. He is looking for something unusual for the pepper mill. Yes, that fits! By the way: The bog oak that stands here is many thousands of years old. I have prepared a small cube here. You can clearly see the grain on it. And the professionals - in this case the wood was examined by the Archaeological Institute in Berlin - they can use a small cube to see exactly when the tree grew. For the light part of the pepper mill, Martin Weinbrecht opted for ash wood with a beautiful grain. That fits. And a piece of leftover wood. For the bung. Let's take that. The turning room looks like Master Eder's. And it smells pleasantly of wood. - There! The gaze glides over the surface: How is the grain, are there cracks or wood defects? The professional is satisfied. From the piece of ash wood he cuts what is known as a scantling with a circular saw. A scantling is a square blank. The hard ash wood is very easy to machine. We already have a bottom part, now we only have the top part. The band saw is used for the crooked, dark bog oak plank . With the classic woodworking tool , even large pieces can be sawn with ease. The turner also cuts a scantling from the bog oak plank. Even after decades, he is enthusiastic about the material wood. Wood is such a natural material. Wood has a structure, different annual rings, early wood, late wood - wood is never the same. When we process such a treasure, such a bog oak that is several thousand years old, then that's something I don't have in my hands every day either. It's a special material. The turner works the special wood with great care. Now it's time for turning: The ash scantling is fixed in the self-centering chuck on the headstock of the lathe. The hand rest holder helps to guide the turning tool safely. So, now I'll take a large roughing gouge and round it up a bit at the front. Yes indeed! And the bottom smooth. And easy centering for the drill. It's easy to center a rotating workpiece freehand. So. Now the big drill comes in. I'm going to drill a pilot hole of 25 millimeters. And then I put a stepped hole on it. So, then the 25 millimeter drill comes out. And we set the stepped bore. For this we have a step drill with adjustable blades - grinders are different. I adjusted the three blades so that the grinder fits in exactly afterwards. The step drill slowly bites into the wooden cylinder. So that too much heat is not generated inside the wood, the turner pulls the drill back again and again and lets the wood chips fly out. He carefully removes wood residues with a brush. Now I use this special groove tool to set the groove for the grinder, for the grinder claws, up here. Martin Weinbrecht has made a mark on the grooving steel so that he knows how deep he can apply the tool. There's the right spot. And there's the groove. And inside, on the first step, break the edge. Then the grinder slides in better afterwards. And chamfer the bottom a little bit. That looks nice. And grind the mill output straight away. And that's it! Today this is routine work for professionals. For Martin Weinbrecht , however, the turnery started with a pivotal experience. 1981, I lived in Freiburg and produced wooden toys. I needed wheels, so I bought a lathe. A used lathe and tools to go with it. I tried to turn the wheels and couldn't get the wheels to be the same diameter and center the axle holes in all the wheels. And then I was lucky that a master wood turner had his workshop very close to my workshop. And then I went there - Edgar was his name. And Edgar turned the wheels for me. And Edgar turned so quickly that I had trouble stopping and catching the wheel at the same moment as I pulled out the drill bit. And that was such a key technical experience for me. I just thought: Wow, madness! Great! The shavings fly, the wood smells - you want to be able to do that too. Okay, now the bottom part is drilled. We had already sawn the upper part. And now the lower part has to get on the lathe somehow. And for that... I'm going to make a small auxiliary spigot that this can be clipped onto. And then comes... on the right side... the four-point driver. And on the left the grain tip. And then I rip... the center. On both sides. This is a centering angle, with which it is relatively quick. And I mark the center. With the automatic center punch. Can you do it differently? But that's fast. Put the grain tip in front. And the edition close by. Try again. And then it starts! With the big roughing gouge. First make a round. And then I get the diameter of the impact chuck. And I put the diameter... at the back of the wood. There he is. Now I'm trying to turn this four degree bevel. Sometimes it works the first time, but sometimes it only works the second time. This time it worked the first time. And now it's hit. And the grain tip out. And now I'm trying to... turn these two steps onto the wood. And I'll take the largest diameter first. This is this one. And put that on my cone. This is the largest diameter. Now I turn the pivot cylindrical. Also in the large diameter of the stepped bore. So! And now comes the first stage. I no longer need a caliper. I now simply rub the first stage against the wood. (whining) And look carefully: that's where it shines, that's where I have to go. This will still be a bit too thick. Yes, it's actually not bad at all. And sits! And now it's going to be roughly roughed. High RPM. And I'm getting in shape a bit. only roughly. The mill is to be wider at the bottom and narrower at the top. This is not the final shape or surface yet, this is just a rough shape. And now for the top. And about the measure of length. Make a plan at the top. Until just before the hole. And now we're going to add a hole extension at the top. This has optical reasons, but also has the advantage that it is easier to fill in the peppercorns. The step drill is used again. The tool was developed here in the workshop by the team of employees. speed down a bit. The drill precisely mills the opening for the peppercorns. (He blows loudly.) So now the lower part is roughly finished in the mold. Now comes the top. And here again: center. So. Martin Weinbrecht processes the upper part of the pepper mill in the same way as the lower part. At one end he turns a so-called dovetail, a trapezoidal edge. Because I want to drill it on the fly with the drill chuck, I now turn a dovetail on one side. And right edge. And see if the dovetail... also matches the lining in diameter. He fits! The craft of turning - the technology has hardly changed over the decades. There is a much smaller change in values in turning. When I see today how we in our office replace computers, printers, hard drives, software - all sorts of things - at relatively short intervals because it's no longer modern, because it's no longer efficient, it's the case with turning that the Basically , the machine, the lathe, has only changed very slightly in terms of structure in the last 50 years . There are a few ergonomic things that have changed so that you can get to the waves a little better. There is the electronic speed control that every bank has today. Of course, these are two clear changes. But apart from that, the structure of the machine is exactly the same as it was 50 or even 80 years ago. First: flatten the underside. That's a band saw cut, and it's not flat. When turning, the same tools are used over and over again. This is... the oval chisel. This is a rectangular chisel - a family. In the past, the chisels were always rectangular, but today oval chisels have prevailed in many areas. This is the turner's plane, so to speak. While I was able to remove a lot of material in a short time with the roughing gouge, I didn't get a nice surface. With the chisel I get a surface that looks like it has been planed. Smooth as glass when everything fits. Gouge, chisel, grooving tool, cutter - the basic equipment of a turner. Turn small fibers. And stab down. Especially for beginners, it is not always clear in which direction the chisel should be guided. Martin Weinbrecht marked the direction of movement on the tool with an arrow for his course participants. So, the surface is now turned flat. Now I set myself a new centering, a small centering point. And drill ... with the 22 mm drill bit ... 40 millimeters deep. When drilling, it is important that the speed is not too high. Beginners ... often have too high speeds. And then sometimes, just for fun, I say in the course: &quot;You shouldn't burn the hole, you should drill it.&quot; It's good if chips always flow. That's when you know you've chosen the right speed. Martin Weinbrecht carefully rotates a stop fold and then checks the correct distance with a gauge. Now it fits right in and doesn't rattle. This means that when I later push the grinder in, the edge below will hit the fold here and the claws can jump into the groove at the top. Turning is a very direct confrontation with the wood. If you build a cupboard today and have a circular saw and milling machine, then you are also working on the wood, but further away than with turning. You've seen how close I am to the wood. I run my hand over the wood, I feel the wood, I smell the wood. I feel or see the chip coming off. I can even hear over time if it's a good cut, if the tool is sharp - and all that. So it's really quite tight, and it's a non-hazardous machine... or let's say the safest type of woodworking machining. Something else has to go down. Now the chisel is used again. And not for finishing, but for piercing. It just buzzed a bit. We took away a lot of material at once. The chisel runs smoothly over the wood. When turning, skill is more important than strength. Okay. I've made the surface a bit convex now, because the shaker insert that comes later is also slightly convex, and then the metal part fits the wooden part. Then the drill is used again. And the smaller speed. And here, too, I drew up the length measurement on the drill bit for the use of the spreader - or recorded it. And now drive again at a moderate speed ... until the crack. And this spreader insert made of stainless steel is made in such a way that I can use a conventional ... countersink - as is usual in the metal sector - to sink it in at the top. And then the spreader insert disappears precisely into the wood. Now it squeaks a bit. Well, that was even possible. And if everything went well, the thing fits in there. It will later be glued in place with two-component glue. He just goes out ... like that. Now the fold has to be done. In other words, the part that later goes into the mill here and ensures precision when turning. I'll use the dovetail again, which I only partially turned away up here. I bring the dovetail into the big chuck and then do the fitting. These dovetails hold very well in modern chucks. When I started turning, there weren't any chucks like that. Now comes the fit for the fold. The same applies here: It is better to measure too much than too little. It was still too big. (squeaking) Now it's tight, that's how it's supposed to be. Now I'll take a vernier caliper in here and hand me the twelve millimeters. The slightly hard bog oak wood, which is more than 2,000 years old, can also be processed without any problems. So here's a clean edge. Now precision is required again: the two parts of the pepper mill should fit together exactly. (squeaking) Now the two pieces fit together. And now it's about the form. And thought of ... was a shape that tapers out a bit at the bottom and has a very small radius at the top or is almost cylindrical at the top. Let's see how it looks afterwards. I'll use a chisel again. That means, first of all we can rough it, make a rough shape, it goes faster. The final shape of the pepper mill is already clearly recognizable. Both parts are now turned in one piece for a uniform line. So, that's the rough form. It should end with a large bevel at the bottom. Well, the chisel is no longer very sharp at the tip. No problem: Wet grinding of metal tools is part of the trade. Yes, it needs to be sharpened up a bit. And I do that with the wet grinder. I then set the correct length. With the help of the holder , Martin Weinbrecht can maintain the exact grinding angle. (Squeaky grinding noises) A little back and forth. You have to press down quite hard because the chisel rests with a large area on the stone. With these curved tubes, these are only smaller areas. But here with the chisel it needs a little more pressure, but ... I'm right in there right away. So that looks good. I'll see if I've got a burr all over here. Yes indeed. Then we'll pull it off. A bit of peeling paste is applied... to the leather disk. So, once in one direction... and in the other direction. That the ridge is gone. That should now... be the case. Yes indeed. And now the tool is... really, really sharp. The lace is beautiful again. You can see quite well. yeah I can keep working with that. And now in convex form. Now you can see how smooth it is. The chisel can't do mass, but class. So, now the lower part swings nicely. And the upper part is also very slightly convex. And here is the fold. The dovetail that we screwed in at the front has to come out. Now he is gone. And now I bring the two shapes together. And now here again a shadow gap. That's it. (Machine hum slows down.) Turning job done. Now it's all about a fine surface. And for that we need some sandpaper. People come who may have taken a pottery course and say: &quot;Man, that looks beautiful and the wood smells so good, I'll have a look at that too.&quot; We are prepared for that today. This means that our courses are coordinated in such a way that you can also get started without any prior technical knowledge. If you want to continue and do the special courses, then you have to practice and ideally have your own machine and copy the things that we teach here in the course at home. Here we go! Our pepper mill is far from finished. Now the wooden surface is sanded in a complex process. The higher the grit of the sandpaper, the finer the sanding. And sand again by hand in the direction of the fibers. So. That was a 180, now comes a 240. The mill should later lie smoothly in your hand. When grinding, Martin Weinbrecht works long and hard. And rework it by hand again. And so the scratches get finer and finer. And at some point the scratches from the sandpaper are so fine that you can no longer see them with the naked eye. That's looking pretty good. Now let's go over again with the 320. And I change the direction of rotation again. In the other direction. And here again by hand. And with the last piece of paper... I gently break all the edges again so that the grinder doesn't feel... sharp anywhere. Down here in front of the bevel, up there on the bevel. And here at the end. Ah, can do a bit more... Alright. Now I'll see if I can still see a scratch somewhere. Degrees in the dark wood... But... that looks good. Good, the suction can be off again. Those are porous woods. And that's why ... (quiet blowing noises) I go at it again with a little air, then you can see how the sanding dust, especially the light-colored sanding dust that has transferred to the dark wood, comes out of the pores. If there were still a tick in it, it wouldn't be a problem, because I choose an open-pored surface, namely an oil and then a wax. That means today is oiled. Then it can dry overnight and tomorrow it will be polished over with chips and then a thin layer of wax will be applied. And then the wood can absorb moisture and release moisture. And the surface is still buffed and then has a nice, matt shine. But now we're going to put oil on it. And this is such a mixture of oils. There's linseed oil in there, tung oil, a dash of carnauba wax. And now you can really get enough of it. The wood is dry ... and absorbs ... well. I do the light first... and then the dark. Now I'll take the tip away and do the surface up here. She pulls in a lot. And now the grain of the wood comes out beautifully, of course. I've seen a few fladers here, in the bog oak here and in the ash down here. This is of course a dream. This is what makes wood so appealing. Every piece is a tick different. So. That's enough now. I'll let that dry a little bit. After five minutes I take away the excess oil. And then it gets time to dry tonight. So, now I'll take away the excess oil with as fluffy a shavings as possible. There shouldn't be any roughing chips in there. No, they're okay. And hand on it... And just wipe off excess oil. And now it can dry in peace tonight. Over the years, Martin Weinbrecht has built up the turning workshop in Neckarsteinach. More and more amateur and professional craftsmen are interested in turning. Today, turning, popular turning, is increasingly becoming part of handicrafts. And more and more things are being created like this, for example, a three-part chandelier consisting of a base, a middle part - there are even two middle parts - and a bowl at the top. And today there are more and more woodturners around the world who are making completely crazy, in a positive sense, crazy things, where even as a professional you have to stand in front of it and think: Wow! How did that come about on the lathe? Turned offset in several axes. The lathe has many possibilities. Alright, let's see. That looks good. Then we'll check the fit to see if the wood has really dried out. Whoa, great! Just as I suspected yesterday: Now the pivot can be turned easily, but still a good fit. Great! Then it's all about pressing the grinder into the lower part, in this case a ceramic grinder. Press in until the claws go into the grooves. You can see it here on the model. This is where the claws are, and it has to be pushed forward to the groove. Yesterday we made the groove with this tool. Now I'll press it a bit by hand. That's as far as it goes in. I'm going to the machine now, ... put the tailstock in front, don't tighten it too much so that it can still dodge behind ... the moment the claws are well in. It can still be moved... And now the tailstock is changing. If you look closely, you can see that although I'm turning, nothing happens in that direction anymore, but the tailstock moves backwards. For me, this is a sure sign that the grinder is in the right position. Then free. And now the bottom is in. I'll loosen the screw connection so that ceramic doesn't run into ceramic because there's no grist in it. (Scratching noise) That fits, that looks good. Now comes the upper part, the driver. And for that we need another stamping. I can place the driver on it wonderfully, then it doesn't wobble back and forth. This is our part. Here, too, we cut the grooves yesterday. Again, there are claws on it so that this driver fits in there. But now we have a page up here that is visible afterwards. That's something you can see then. So I change the pressing piece here and take a cork-covered pressing piece, ... put that against it, and the procedure is very similar: put the tailstock in front, crank ... And at some point it's in. This is now a variant where the plastic part is still visible at the bottom. That's right. Looks good too. And now I can merge the two parts. Basically , I already have a finished pepper mill, but the salt insert is still missing. But first there is still wobbling. The surface of the wood is polished on large rotating buffing wheels. Three discs are used: one for each colour, the third for fine polishing. Martin Weinbrecht uses wax blocks to apply light and dark wax to the buffing wheels. The light and dark wood are first polished separately. (Wobbly sound) That makes a great surface. The oil that we put on it yesterday, fires up the color, fires up the texture. The wax layer brings a matt shine, which I polish up. Now there's already light wax on it. Now I'm going to put another dark wax on the bog oak here. It's easy to see that there's wax on it, it feels great. Something is still dull here, there is only oil on it. The pepper mill is a household appliance, and that includes a perfect shine. That's good... Oh, I forgot downstairs! And now everything is polished in one piece. The large disc is also a bit softer than the others. And I can already feel in my fingers how nice it feels. Always a pleasure for woodworkers: elegantly polished wood. Martin Weinbrecht is very satisfied. But the insert for the salt shaker is still missing. So, two-component glue. That is practical. When I used to do something like this with my father, with Uhu plus, there was a powder and a liquid to mix. It had to be in proportion. Today it's one to one. It is only important that it is mixed well. But the mixing ratio ... is already specified by the double syringe. So. And now it's time... if possible not to make a mess. And everywhere ... a good portion ... put on the edge. There's still something there. OK. Let's take that away and get the spilled stuff out right away. Rub off excess glue. So. Now there are little glue grooves in here. And now I'll make sure that I drive the part in the middle, screw it in a bit like a screw. And now I'll fix that. Yes finished! Looks good! Of course that's a nice feeling. The mill works, I'll ease it up a bit , it turns well, you can grind well with it. Well, it's not the first grinder I've made in my life. When you do something like this for the first time, you might be a little prouder of it. It's pretty, it feels good, nice choice of wood, it's functional. I'm giving this to my wife. Martin Weinbrecht's wife Anke is trying out the new pepper mill and salt shaker combination model right away: the peppercorns are easy to fill in. The two wooden parts can also be turned easily, the grinding works. And the salt shaker works too: practical test passed! A noble piece of turned wood. The pepper mill looks very nice. It impresses with a perfect wooden surface, clear design and functionality. In many work steps, Martin Weinbrecht created a shapely kitchen helper in his turning room that will be useful for a long time to come. SWR 2018