Solving the climate crisis involves lives. revolution, harnessing the power of industrial process to cut emissions. just political will, but also financial scale and keep global warming from On this episode of Leaders with Lacqua executive editor John Fraher, speaks to poured billions into green startups. summit in London for his venture fund, in more than 100 companies involved in Bill Gates, thank you for joining us leadership in the climate era. nearly a decade ago to invest in every area of emissions. generation of green companies that will zero. What grade would you give Breakthrough Well, I'm biased. build. The companies we found out and founded, have ideas that, as they're scaled up, paying a lot more money so that the expected. billions in climate companies over the over the last decade. you are most excited by, a particular you're most excited about? but the climate problem, you know, it's get to skip buildings or agriculture You don't even get to skip planes or You know, you've got to have it all. companies is that industrial processes. fission or fusion, which will make a huge There's a thing called geologic hydrogen contribution. thing, like a new window that is so in the winter, let the heat in during That can save you a lot of money. very pro climate. We have wind we have batteries. summon a new technology into existence Which one would it be? fission or fusion because you can locate it near to where completely not weather dependent. that, so we need to go as fast as we can And now, you know, even geothermal looks energy network with all of these, but it's not weather dependent makes a to be part of the mix. already have all of the technologies pretty much scalable, economically Well, the technologies when they you things, but you know, we're taking them So we have to, you know, have policy that's what brings the price down over So I can see us getting there. And the impediments in terms of, okay, connected to the grid? people are going to have to stay focused But because of these great lab results, start to bring emissions down a lot. bottlenecks to scaling climate tech Is it financial? Certainly in 2015 it was that we didn't Ideas about how to make steel or cement You know, we we didn't have the breadth progress on those. deployment. How easy is it to get those permitted? connected up to the grid? thing. And so the fact that it's it's hard to the limiting factor from where you sit. other companies, other, you know, opportunity for returns here? stack, depending on the maturity of the You know, breakthrough energy has had no funds for the early ideas we call companies and proving their products project implementation. know, where you have to build all the And if you get the cost analysis right you're they can see within a certain the price down. capital. limited number of areas some wind and But you know, for like a green steel just at the start and trying to draw in getting the risk level to a very low And when you talk to those other big green technology economy universe, do Well, the power generation is a gigantic regulated, you know, turning over the cement, that's really a gigantic thing, buildings and and switching electrifying the heating natural gas to heat the house, things Actually, those products have gotten so they're clean. You know, So across the board, capital that went into the the old dirty Coming up, Bill Gates on the artificial his green benefits will outweigh its Artificial intelligence has come under AI's insatiable need for electricity is threatening the climate goals of big But Bill Gates says the technology will and eventually pay for itself. Where do you see the most useful use climate solutions? model out these systems. raise your efficiency a lot. you about material science, like, okay, silicon or food very efficiently, you know, in a other approach. thing that goes beyond just kind of a 10% here or 15% there to helping you green product. And how concerned should we be about, the extra energy demand that's going to You know, is it worth the extra the intellectual power that I can bring Yeah. know, from electric cars, as we change change that over or steel manufacturing, demand for datacenters. trying to make the computations more as much energy. being, you know, 3% of electric use or You know, it's not going to go above So, yeah, it's got to fit in. And those tech companies are probably as extra to use green energy of any So they'll help push the green They're willing to pay somewhat of a that it's all done without So I think on balance, when it comes to Absolutely. been in this industry for for a long, You've seen lots of ups and downs in the Right now we are seeing, of course, a for example, recently became the briefly. do you worry that we're seeing bubble You know, I'm not a I'm not a buyer and like a daily basis or anything. as they were, say, during the Internet And the growth is real. This is something very, very So I you know, I'm I'm not don't take my but the growth potential, you know, space, which is why you see all the Microsoft, putting tens of billions of capacity, but re-engineering their more productive. we're seeing in these valuations is excitement we're seeing? Any particular stock? But we're not we're not out of control. important as any in the history of Another technology that has a lot of capture, I think sort of the base case capture economically viable is 100 tons, further and further away from us. other companies in the sector are will be an important part of of the net Carbon capture is unlikely to be more And even to get to that level, we'd have Now, there are companies that, you know, possibility to get, you know, to 50 and But that's kind of the brute force most hard to abate sectors. redesign the process so you're never in. carbon capture, of course you have a doing it the old way and you're adding carbon capture. extremely difficult to abate things. down and I'm optimistic it will. optimistic today than a decade ago about world falling behind in the race to net In 2015, world leaders committed to 2050. necessary one to prevent the worst But as emissions and temperatures keep falling short of its goals. One of your favorite climate writers is and he paints a rather gloomy picture of And when you read, you know his stuff, scale of what we have to achieve here, A seven fold increase in investment, for And he I was reading a recent paper of by saying a fossil free world, free of Do you agree with that? So we need to use fossil fuels. on the upside and nobody better than he does. rate of progress and you just project it our goals. I'll believe this when I see it. efficient energy cheap. change the way we make cement and steel. stuff in its prototype form. people who are going to scale it up. path. down yet. they're going up Some rich countries, you know, like the emissions when it was a very coal actually uses almost no coal year round. That's the kind of thing we need to do goals. predicting the future, but he says, wow, pretty unbelievable things that in the before. current state of the global debates, you huge political backlash in parts of the We have all of these concerns about that we saw coming out of Paris that we seems to be seems to be dissipating. a fight that can still be won? because somebody was working on the hard The energy R&amp;D budgets had gone down, gone down. So I don't know what people are The fact is we built essentially from supporters, a really mindblowing level And, you know, in the last nine years expected. plausibly be optimistic about the path And someone who said, hey, nobody's ever knew to before, they're welcome to say, You know, in the meantime, some people out, you know, trying to think, do we You know, do we find what new ideas You know, how do we fund people with How do we get the costs of these things How do we collaborate on a global basis? it's guaranteed or even that it'll it'll But at least there's a theory of change seeing from over 100 companies here. know, was as the hard charging founder You are now a philanthropist, a with a very powerful voice. life is most transferable to your Well, I've always been a student, you learn things. of Harvard because I loved, you know, I audited a lot more than I was signed But, you know, I saw this unique time. what is climate, what are the source of Or from my foundation, you know, why children in Africa die 40 times the rate as they do in other countries, of those things, wanting to meet the and coming up with solutions. innovators and think through with them solutions, that's common to my Microsoft disease and now through breakthrough what have you had to learn? I you know, there are things where I know, good at the CFO decisions or the we built Breakthrough Energy, we have skills to advise these companies. have the skills that that I'm not And what you find is the hardest part of Well, we've we've been pretty complain. to learn. didn't understand cement or steel or, cheap. people with new ideas, I'm like, wow, You know, there's one here that grows And I'm like, I'm just stunned, you Give me the numbers. You are one of the world's best known One of the other people sort of most course, is Elon Musk. days? We were at an event together called the and I said hi to him, but now Tesla's a huge contribution to driving the car industry towards And you know, on Tesla, I mean, you know, Elon Musk, I think has sort of shown solutions can be cool and exciting and Are you are you disappointed that Elon climate these days? talking about culture, wars and other He talks a lot. You know, he's very, very smart and he's a contribution within that, you know, What would you like him to talk about What would you like to say? telling him what to talk about. You know, he's he's unique and he'll So you are an avid, avid reader and you about climate and other issues. that you would advise people to read You know, unfortunately, it's no single Vaclav Smil's book. you the framework of what we're dealing don't understand that how important electricity supply is, or even the food And so I think that's still probably the And we all have to make sacrifices if climate solution. climate sacrifice you've you've had to sustainable life? know, like I buy I fund electric heat lower bill and low cost housing. for that, you know, I, I offset that can get to zero. zero, it's also driving those creating come down in price. you know, my carbon footprint is high we need to, you know, get all sorts of Well, I was going to ask what is also what's your biggest climate vice? is is where I'd have my biggest Bill Gates, thank you very much for your Thank you.