Translator: Queenie Lee Let me ask you something. Have you ever been in a situation where you've asked yourself is this person, is this person Picture the scene: You sashay into the kitchen because we all know And you see an attractive stranger getting a drink refill from a box of wine. Your friend's a student. And so you get a drink refill, and you say something hilarious Attractive stranger laughs. Good for you. And then for the next few minutes there's some eye contact, more talking. But then after a few minutes you start thinking, Sound familiar, anyone? See the person sitting next to you, The person in front of you, You see this is a universal conundrum. But no more! Because in the next ten minutes I'm going to tell you and never again will you wonder: I'm Jean Smith. I'm a social anthropologist a flirtologist, if you will. Now, as a flirtologist, I do research, And I work with clients all with the goal of helping people So I can see some of you 'Really!? Is this necessary? Yes. (Laughter) Yes, it is. I've been doing this for over a decade. And if the question - is this person flirting with me - it's now everyone-wants- because over the last decade the way that we flirt People are relying more and more But let's face it, an emoji with its tongue sticking out, it's only going to get you so far. At some point, you're going Unless of course, you're a Japanese male, and in that case, you could go on to marry So as part of my quest I did research. I went to the cities of London, and I researched the flirting behaviour And I found there were six things Six ways that they could signal and understood when someone And I teach this as H.O.T.-A.P.E. (Laughter) It's the six signs - it's an acronym So what if I were to say to you: because you've got &quot;fine&quot; Would you laugh? Well, 'H' is for humour. Raise your hand Go ahead, don't be shy. OK, everyone with their hands up, I would totally date you. (Laughter) Well, if my husband But anyway, if you it's not a good match. It's just not going to work between us. But it's me, not you. But this is a good thing because HOTAPE-ing people - it takes time. Does anyone here watching an interesting TED talk? Does anyone here like test cricket? These things also take time, And this is where people because they want to attract everybody. But no, you just want who match with you. And that's why humour, specifically a shared sense of humour, is really important between your potential HOT-APEs I mean, yeah, they're cute. I'm sure they have a great personality. But at the end of the day It's no HOT-APE. So 'O' is for open body language. Three things to remember. Number one, don't do this. I know some of you are guilty of this. I've heard it all before, oh, but I'm cold, or, this is comfortable. OK, whiny voice aside, in which instance do you want to HOT-APE me more? Like this? Or like this, right? Not HOT-APE. HOT-APE. Number two: make sure your shoulders So not HOT-APE, not HOT-APE, still not HOT-APE. HOT-APE. Not HOT-APE. HOT-APE. Now, the third, and I'm only telling you guys. This is a really good one. To see if someone's interested, look at the direction So if their feet If they're kind of out to the side, it means they're planning The further away our limbs the harder it is for us to control them. So, Shakira, I know you say: but the flirtologist is here 'T' is for touch. Like humour, touch also has a positive Now as a general rule, shoulder - But as you go down the arm the touch gets more intimate. That's why I recommend everyone and say something like: 'Oh, you're so funny', people seem to love that stuff. Oh, another place would be just here at the top of the back perhaps if you're passing by, Now, of all of the flirting signs, people seem to be wariest As one of my clients said, 'Well, the other signs But when it comes to touch, But touch can get you and it can also show someone And as long as you remember, I like test cricket, it lasts five days, I don't have time then if the person you can try someone else. 'A' is for attention. This one might seem obvious. The more attention someone is paying you, But the problem is it's really hard to be objective. Which is why in anthropology, it's called participant observation. And I think this could be a really It means that you're participating, but you're not so in it So if you were to, for example, touch and say something it means that you're not so self-conscious that you can't observe the effect And that my friends 'P' is for proximity. Now proximity was used in two ways. The first, if you see someone and then all of a sudden this is not a coincidence. It means they like what they see The other way proximity was used is when you're actually they're standing closer than usual. So if you're attracted, great. If you're not, they're in your space. So the last of the flirting signs Can anyone guess what it is? Thank you. It's eye contact. This was the number one way that people could understand someone and the difference So in flirting eye-contact It was held for a longer amount of time, and it was more intense. So using these signs: humour, open body language, touch, you can recognize And as a general rule, Now my favourite story of HOT-APE was relayed to me by one of my clients. She had shared HOT-APE And one night, they went out One of her friends was making and she went over and spoke with him. She came back a few minutes later, bit dejected, my client said, 'What happened? What happened?' 'Well, did you HOT-APE him?' And then they started 'Did you use humour?' 'What about open body language? 'No, no.' 'What about touch? 'Uh, God, I didn't use touch.' And then they started laughing, And what normally could have been or, you know, feeling bad, it just turned into a fun game. And this is the power of HOTAPE because it turns flirting It's something fun, easy, And when we think it totally changes And in situations where we're often we have scientific tools And finally, it makes it's not about us, it's a checklist; it's a task. It's things to do rather than which is a stranger's So now you know the signs of flirting, and I encourage you to not just because these signs also use And this is my challenge to you: forget about the game, be genuine. Take action and go HOTAPE someone. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you.