This is our garden. My father is cultivating pumpkins, a lot of potatoes. And this is all polluted, How does it make me feel being I don't like them being my I use stuff of 3M, which I don't want to, but it's just like that. I have no other option. They're everywhere. My entire family is highly affected by that stupid chemical. You may not realize it, but almost everyone has some level of PFAS in their bloodstream because in our everyday environment. PFAS is the umbrella term for thousands of different They're known as &quot;forever chemicals.&quot; They are man-made of different kinds of products. They are miraculous chemicals. You can't find a better to make your jacket waterproof. They've made our lives From the foods you eat, to the rain jacket you put But the problem is they don't and they're almost They accumulate in soil, rivers, drinking water of people who are exposed to them. And now, PFAS chemicals of health problems: hormone thyroid malfunctions, but as well, high cholesterol and and even a diminished vaccine efficacy. 3M maintains that these to human health in the levels But of course, that really depends on where you're talking about. In some areas, particularly around the the levels detected in the 3M is a global corporation, that makes a wide range of products. Everything from its flagship product, Scotchgard, to protect It makes Post-it notes. It makes N95 masks. But it that are not branded. 3M has billions in sales and factories in different parts of the world. 3M's factory is located on in the city of Antwerp. It is part of Europe's A highway separates that chemical cluster from what is a suburban farming community. 3M began operating in Belgium in the 1970s and started making PFOS there in 1976. Now it stopped making PFOS there in 2002, but in those intervening years, it contaminated the surrounding area. Those people living just behind to the PFOS emissions from that plant, including from the air and And it's had a really devastating impact, both on the people who I live, let's say, 500 meters away from the chemical plant of the 3M company. I live here with my family: my parents just across the door, my brother across the street, and that's me. So, we live here for five generations long. Then, they tell me just maybe it's better that your and that you clean your in a really proper way. Because we know that we produce a chemical and it's in your house, and it's not good for children. I don't want to expose my Everybody was like, move, move. And I was like, why? I already exposed them in a huge amount just by holding them, just by feeding them. I exposed them as a mom. So, I breastfed my daughter six months to a year. And I was happy, it was And suddenly, she becomes 4 years old and not everything was fine any longer. She has a problem. According to outside world, she's slightly disabled. Why? Because she had a shortness and some things are not Maybe the problem is caused Maybe not. Is she dying? No. Will she get cancer? Who knows? I don't know. I don't know how bad it is, you know? And nobody knows. Nobody. Even 3M, they say they don't know. But I gave her a huge, huge, huge amount of that kind of chemical yeah, it's good to breastfeed, why not? It's easy, nice, easy, It's just, like, yeah, what I didn't do anything wrong. So, we eliminate PFAS through loss of blood or in the urine. But one of the biggest is through pregnancy and breastfeeding, which is incredibly worrisome. That means that children have because mothers pass PFAS onto their fetuses. And children are incredibly because their organs are still developing, their biochemistries are still evolving. Some scientists described this to me as a ticking time bomb This contamination might if not for a plan to build and highway project that was to 3M's factory in Antwerp. The plan required the and river silt and being moved to different parts of Belgium. The decision to move all of Flanders led activists what's in the soil. And two activists came that they requested from and from Flemish regulators and discovered that the soil being dug was heavily contaminated with PFOS. In the middle of this environmental report on the sanitation report for 3M, I find what's pretty much a photocopy of groundwater measurements from 2000s. And my first reflex is, like, oh, there's a problem with the You know, I was thinking, oh, so it's like a thousand times But it wasn't, it was like, you know, 250,000 micrograms per liter, I think. Just so staggeringly high. I'd never seen numbers like that, even in, you know, these And that was loose in the If we go by the current from the European Food they get to, like, a norm for drinking water. Now, what we saw there in the order of a couple That's what we're talking about. Now this caused a chain of events that caused a huge political scandal. What came out was that the had done a secret deal with 3M that would enable them to and polluted soil onto 3M's factory site to build what they called that previously didn't need And the catch was that they as long as it served a function. And if you look at the permit for it, there's no indication for polluted soil. It's just not in there. So this roundabout actually contains really heavily polluted PFAS soil. So technically, it's But because it's already in here, they're basically saying, oh, We're not going to bother, you know, getting it out, if it's even possible. So, this is a whole problem, with the tunnel construction company, is they're trying to create situations where it's impossible to rectify. There was a public outcry. Activists then crowdfunded the bloodstream of certain residents who lived near the factory for PFOS. And when those results it caused mayhem because that they tested, and just at random, had incredibly high levels In one case, a woman in her 60s had levels that were comparable to So 3M has been churning out varieties of PFAS chemicals since the 1950s. But it began doing studies in the '70s that made them realize were highly toxic, including two studies in which were disclosed as It was being sued for harming of Minnesota who lived They found high levels of particularly those people who And they noted higher rates of cancer and leukemia in residents In 2018, 3M agreed to settle a lawsuit brought by the state of without admitting any wrongdoing. In 2000, 3M announced longer-chain PFAS as a saying the chemicals were safe. But they announced that with shorter-chain equivalents Those are now believed to be to the environment and to human health because they're highly in the environment more easily. They try to project a, you know, societal, corporate responsible view. But in the end, they've how toxic this product was. I think it's really disappointing that 3M reached this to the Flemish government, but so many of the worried about their health, worried about their house prices, worried about their And very little has been done. Now they say, don't play outside, don't eat your vegetables. I'm like, hmm, it's your child. How I can tell my child, like, please don't walk with your bare feet. Don't touch the soil It's impossible. And now I have to say, Don't touch, don't do, it's poison. And then they're like, hmm, is it a fairy? No, it's not a fairy. It's real life. We cannot eat those apples. It's poison. Don't touch.