I'd like to welcome come to campus to view this and everybody who's viewing it virtually. Thank you very much for busy schedule today to participate in this wonderful event. As Tom mentioned, this is a special Master Lecture Series with the Orange County Chapter of the Project Management Institute. It is definitely my pleasure today, Greta Blash. Greta is a certified Agile certification in from the Project Management Institute. She has extensive and consulting IT professional. Her areas of experience project management, with emphasis in the areas and conversions, and maybe she can explain what this is, (laughs) customer data warehousing and Greta has taught project courses worldwide, and has of education and programs for She is currently, and since 2012, served as the academic outreach liaison for PMI Region Seven. Her topic today is on and is titled &quot;The Basics So I'll turn it over to (applause) - Thank you so much for I'm looking forward to presentation, and joint effort between the as well as California Southern University. As we talk about the agenda, obviously, when you talk about the basics of good project management, we and first identify what is a project, and then what is project management, and how it applies a life skill as opposed to those of us that are I'm really not sure what being a professional project manager. Depending on what we're as he alluded, I've done a lotta different types of projects. In fact, one of the things that I just did was I installed a phone system. Why? Because I had to have it as part of a call center implementation that was part of a CRM project. So depending on what has to be done, you use the skills, the basic to manage those efforts. We'll talk about the phases of a project. Those of you that are or project managers will the formal project I'm talking about this as can do in their everyday life. So we have a starting part of a project. We have a planning, where we figure out what we need to do and Then we actually do the work. We perform the work. At some point in time, Now, unfortunately, projects the way that we talk about being able to do. So we'll spend a little One of the other areas because project management is not just a technical skill, but project management also has a lot to do with as an individual, as So one of the things that we all learn is that even if we can put together a Microsoft Project schedule, we may not be successful in being There's some additional to have in order to do this. So we'll talk about some and the fact that PMI has actually added an entire appendix to our book that we use to be able to talk about The last thing that I today is talking about the code of ethics that the Project Management Institute has asked us all to sign, which is basic. Basic types of things Some of 'em are mandatory type of actions, some of 'em are just kinda think about this and do what ya can, aspirational is the word We'll talk about that to everyday life, not Let's talk about what is a project. By definition, a project has a beginning and an end. It also creates something that is unique, whether it's a result or or a document, it's unique. But if I have a project and I'm a house builder, why is it unique? Because we all know every house is a little different. If I put in, like I did the CRM project, for is very different from another. The people they're trying to work with, the tools they have, all The project needs to be start on a certain time. We have a target date, a milestone, something that we wanna That may change, because things happen, and we know that. As a project manager, we have to recognize when those things happen, we have to figure out what does that mean and how we're gonna go about making those changes. A project can involve a single or multiple individuals. Single is not a good idea, but sometimes, and in the last one, was assigning a resource to a project, sometimes it was me, and sometimes it was I. There was nobody else there at the time to be able to do this, a few different roles, so I did that. We really need to have How much time those different individuals are involved in this depends on what their role is, what we're gonna need to do. We can also have people from different organizational units. They could be all within one organization, one family, one community, or they could be scattered over a Obviously, the more that grows, the more difficult you may have in trying to manage that project. We can also have multiple organizations from, multiple units from especially when we get where we end up having people from different companies or organizations working together. Even though we're in Orange County, we spent the last few years in Las Vegas. We were there while they Now, if any of you have been over there or have heard about it, with a lotta different hotels and casinos and restaurants and retail, et cetera. There were over 200 project managers on that particular task from 200 different companies. Talk about trying to manage much less manage the work effort. Huge effort there. But that's a case where a project can go from a very simple thing, and we always use the basic example of planning a Christmas party or planning the Thanksgiving meal to cleaning the garage to building Those are all projects. They're just things that part of the business. If we look at everything that has to be accomplished, that we have to say, &quot;Okay, we're gonna start this now, and we hope to have it we're gonna use some skills as we go through that. We can consider that a project. When we talk about projects and I talk about PMI, PMI that supports project managers worldwide. We have what's called &quot;A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge.&quot; We all call it the PMBOK Guide. This is a guide that helps us understand best practices of ways It's a guide. It was written by a number of volunteers. I started to say a lot, it is a lot. It continually is updated as new ideas come about, with new ideas, best It identifies best and techniques, not vendor specific, but more generic type of things. As a project manager, kind of what those tools to the table and whether they're gonna be applicable to what we're trying to do. The other part of it is it provides a common terminology among project managers. I'm not gonna necessarily terminology today, but we have things like a risk register and a different things that, when we talk about these and types of documents, we have an idea of what we're talking about. We have a common base of communication. This is absolutely no when you are in accounting or HR or marketing. We use terminology that that are in those functional organizations or within those disciplines know what that terminology means, and they can talk back and forth. The key is, on this, we This book has gone from probably about less than a quarter of it's a couple of inches thick. In fact, when we did the latest release, I did a presentation the older versions cause I've been working with it that long, and I brought 'em and showed so we started because we keep adding But the key becomes that is not what we must do. That is recommended good thing that a project to do is figure out how much is appropriate for this So part of what I'm gonna some of the concepts that and say, &quot;Do I just or should I actually do it? If I do it, how much do I need to do?&quot; When we create a document, do we have a one-page document or do we have three three-ring binders full of information? You do what is appropriate for the task that you're doing. So what is project management itself? Project management is concerns of stakeholder expectations. Let me go back and explain from our standpoint. A stakeholder is anybody, anybody who cares about what we're doing, who may be impacted by It could be the people For instance, I have a project. I wanna go redo my lawn and my whole landscaping in the front yard. Do I have stakeholders? Of course. I have neighbors, I have a group of people within the community that say, &quot;You can do this and you can do this.&quot; We have a problem in Southern I'm not going to plant if I have to be able to water it. And in fact, in Vegas, there is no longer grass. We don't have the water, and therefore, the stakeholder is the water association. Do I need to know about Yes. Do I need to know what their concerns are? Do I need to know when to involve them? Absolutely. Those are the types of when we're talking about stakeholders and their concerns. It's not just me and my project team, but it's the people that by what I'm doing, as well as the people that I will impact as I'm working on this. Noise, cleaning up, all the things that are going to impact the rest of the community. We talk about constraints on a project. Regardless what project you're doing, you have constraints. You either have money or you have time. In some projects, we have to figure out what is the most important constraint. Is it that I have to get Or I have to do it within Those are different constraints. There could also be some quality that says I have to be able to have a quality level. For instance, I've doing I have to be able to know how much water I'm going to have to use for that project. That's a constraint. Therefore, I have to see I'm gonna have to see what kind of plants I'm gonna grow. All of these type of It's interesting cause the constraint of cost and money being the most important. Unfortunately, when I was in Vegas, I never, ever even saw a budget, much less had a concern about the cost. Everything was schedule. You must get it done on a certain date because of certain things If I needed more people, so be it. What it cost, I never The constraint was get it done. What you have to understand is which one of those Which is the most important? Which is the second most? Because you're gonna have to make trade-offs as you go through. So what we do with the projects, then, is we understand what do we need to do and who do we need to use in order to help get this accomplished. We also have this thing but we have work that's going on within an organization. We usually refer to that It's the day-by-day work that's done. Whether it's in a business where you're registering students, courses, those are all operations. They continually happen. Now let's take presenting a course. If we decide we want a brand new course, we usually initiate a project to do that. We figure out when do who needs to be involved in it. When we talk about the two of these, they both are performed by people. They both are still constrained They, obviously, are planned, executed and controlled So we talk about project management. As I alluded to before, there's basically four different phases or four different chunks of work that need to be done. We need to start out, and the key on the starting out is figuring this project, who is for this and what do we expect to be able to get out of it? Sometimes this doesn't happen. Sometimes we're not told, which, obviously, means that we could go down a different path if we're Once we figure out why now we have to be more specific as to what do we need to do, who needs to be involved, when do those individuals or resources, as we call 'em, which could be equipment, money, people, when do those people or those resources need to be involved, and how are we gonna do this? Some of that planning is going to be at a very high level, and as we get closer and get more in we'll get more into, oops, I didn't know I had to do that or oops, as I'm digging up my garden to put in my plants, all of a sudden I'm hitting something. Ended up being a great big concrete piece that who know why it was there, when it got there, but obviously, we had to get rid of it. So part of that was a We have to be able to to say that we're there. Once we get it finished, We need to say, &quot;Hey, we did it. Good work.&quot; We need that feedback, because sometimes that work we're doing, it's hard. It's a lot of hours, it's a lotta people, it a lotta time. We opened a casino down in Mississippi for the Indian tribe. By the time we were assigned to do it, we had seven months to We worked seven days a We actually finished all the IT stuff a month before opening because we had to have it in place to train people with. My staff was sitting there going, &quot;Okay, so now what do we do? We have a month before opening.&quot; I said, &quot;You sit back and you watch. At the time when that actually opens, we're gonna celebrate because we did it.&quot; Part of it is being able to recognize the accomplishments. Let's go back to the starting phase. I use the term why. I think most project managers will realize this is probably the area we spend the least amount of time on, and it's also the area, because if we don't understand why we're doing this project, we may not understand, to accomplish. By definition, with PMI, what we say is that we need to officially We end up developing what's It is a way that we authorize the project, we authorize the project I have seen it very, very seldomly done, even though I force it now because I wanna promote this and tell We're starting this project. Be aware of it. You're a stakeholder. Either you can join us and participate in this, or you may have some concerns. Voice them now.&quot; That's what we need, but we need to understand that. In most organizations, there is something that happened prior to this project starting. There may have had to be a business case, which could be very detailed as to the return on investment, the objectives, how this fits in with the strategic plan. Go back and talk about if I'm going to add a new course to the curriculum. I'm gonna, obviously, have to have some preliminary discussions and approval before this gets started. I wanna be able to get information from that process and figure out what was the thinking, especially who were the people that were and who were the people that kind of were fighting it because those are gonna be stakeholders So I wanna see how we got to the point where we've been given approval to do this project. Let's go back to my landscaping. Do I have to have certain approvals? Obviously, if I'm gonna I'd have to have approvals. Do I have the money for it? Where is it gonna come from? How's it gonna be done These are all projects. We don't formally think of 'em that way, but when we do work, when we do and try to produce something or a result, it is a project, and we need to understand why did we choose this one? Was it a compliance issue that came down and there was, all of to stop doing what they were because we had a new regulation we had to meet? In that case, does it make sense to go try and get a copy of the Absolutely. Figure out why we're doing this, what does it mean, what At this point in the starting phase, usually about the only person that's on the project is the project manager and maybe a few experts that understand the work we're doing. Obviously, if I'm planning my garden or my landscaping, I'm I need to go at least to maybe the nursery and talk about what kind of plants I need, what kind of work, those type of things. So those are what we will end up having as we start to build our team. They're not there every day shoveling and doing work, but they're giving me the information. I, as the project manager, I am not expected to know everything, and unless this is a project of one, which doesn't really I'm not the person that has I have a team that I'm working with. That's where this whole starting phase says who do you need to work on this. Especially if you have to pay somebody, whether you have to lease equipment or rent equipment or get people, you need to have the approval So we always say it identifies and formally authorizes the the project manager to spend resources, resources meaning money. Should I start a project without having people know that Probably not a good idea, that we don't really wanna get out there yet. We work with a lot of and Department of Energy projects in this part of the country, where we do have certain projects like that. They're classified projects, so we do not let everybody know what we're doing. Sometimes that's not a So we have this thing There's a lot of examples of this. First of all, we always say when you you need to do it immediately. You need to write this within the first week, minimum, of when the project starts. Otherwise, you're gonna get because all you're really trying to say is why am I doing this project. What will make it successful? Do I have certain requirements that have to be met, especially I know already there's certain things I have to do, so put those in here to start out with. If it has a constraint of a schedule, put the schedule dates in there. If it has a constraint on money, put the money in there, even though we're gonna have to figure out the disconnect between and how much time we have to do it and how much money we have to get that work done, but we can at least go through there. The other thing is does it need to be approved when we get finished? If so, who approves it, what do they have to be approving, so that we know that when we do this, it just isn't hanging out there. Part of the problem with these projects that never get closed, they never receive final approval. Therefore, they are kind The key here is stating right up front who's gonna approve this and what are they gonna use, at a very, to say, &quot;Yes, you did what We say that we know who what their responsibility, what their authority level is. This is a whole area that I'm not gonna really talk about here because it's more involved, if you're in an organization, as to who kinda has the power and control of things. If I'm in an organization, and I'm doing a finance project, the people that are within finance have a very, very strong control over what's being done. Part of that is being able to see, do I have the ability Do they have the ability? Do I have to get approval from them? Those are the types of things that, depending on what kind of project and what kind of organization, it then makes a huge difference. The other thing is who's the sponsor? Who's the one that actually has approved the funding of this? Who is the group, and it could be a group, not just an individual, but who is that person that is going to be responsible for paying for this? In a number of projects the reason why we actually was to make sure that the individual or the department who was knew they were paying for this project because it had been approved six months ahead of time as part and they kinda forgot that, oh, I have committed to this. So part of this was to actually get that sponsoring organization, and it's really supposed supposed to be written good and well, most of we write it, we let them distribute it. But we wanna make sure what we're gonna be doing, who's gonna be involved, kind of at a very high level, which is why we say write it within the first couple a days or first week. Once again, we know when we do any sort of writings or for executive, shorter is better, right? One page. If you can't put this basic information on a one-page document, you've gotten into too much detail. This is not the place to go into a huge dissertation and everything about it. High level, introduce the project, focus on the most important things as we go through that. When we get into the planning phase, this is where we start to identify in more detail. This starts almost immediately. It's why we wanna get that charter out of the way to be able to say, &quot;This is the objectives, this is the milestones, high level.&quot; Now we can drop down into the more detail. What needs to be done? Who needs to be involved? When will things be done? Then all these assumptions An assumption is basically that the following is gonna be there. Therefore, I can do my work.&quot; When I worked for IBM, I was told for every assumption, there's is a corresponding constraint. So if I assume that I'm going to have key individuals to work on my project, that's an assumption, and I've done all the planning based on that assumption. But then at the point in time, I also have a constraint because if those key individuals are not available, what impact's it gonna have on my project? It may be delayed, I may of it out, things like that. An assumption is what we're basing all of these requirements and all of our planning on. The constraint is what do we know that could go wrong that could cause us to have a problem when we get in here. Then the last thing is determining how we're gonna do this. The how could be how long it's gonna take, what different roles the are gonna play, and that we can use for this I put the Cheshire Cat up there because this is still my most favorite quote. When you get into planning, as Alice said, &quot;Which road do I take?&quot; The Cheshire Cat says, &quot;I don't know,&quot; said Alice. &quot;Then it really doesn't matter.&quot; That's, unfortunately, what happens when we don't plan things. We have no idea what we're gonna end up with, we have no Granted, when we're planning something, we don't necessarily wanna spend months planning something that's only gonna be a two-month effort. So you do the planning in proportion to the amount of time you have, the complexity of the project. We have some ways where what we'll also talk about is that we do some high-level planning to start out with, and then as we get closer in, we'll do more detail planning as we go. I don't know everything when I start, and I don't need to, but I at least need to know what roads I'm going to take. That's the key. Just as an aside, I think and read &quot;Alice in Wonderland.&quot; You will be surprised how many quotes are in that book that we use every day, and especially that are just as an aside. It's just fascinating So we talk about requirements. We talk about what. Somebody said, &quot;Well, between a requirement There really isn't anything, Most often today, we facilitated sessions. A facilitated session is where we get additional people in the room together so so they can discuss. The picture we have here we did at PMI a few weeks ago as part of one of our group efforts. We were facilitating requirements and how we might do 'em. You're building on information You're facilitating it only to make sure that the information is on track, we keep going through there. It says that this requirement and detailed enough to allow verification and validation. Here I'm dropping into and validation. Verification is making sure Validation is approving. It's making sure that I've done, and the verification, I've done it correctly, but the validation is I approve it and we can move on. When we get into these into a lot of different could take much more time So we may need to be I put this cartoon in here. I've had it in most of my slides for a number of years because I think it kind of says, if we don't if we don't discuss 'em, everybody has a different idea of what's what's gonna be the result, and we need to be able to have this so that we can all discuss and make sure we're saying the right thing, we're all agreeing on it. We have this thing called a work breakdown structure. It's kind of everything you need to do. I'm gonna digress just a second. I mentioned this earlier. One of the areas of PMI project management as a life skill, and teaching it to young kids, elementary. The Northern Italy chapter a program on project management where they basically do this by means of Post-its. They have a project for the kids to do, they give 'em all Post-its the different things that need to be done, and then go stick 'em up on the wall.&quot; Then they turn around and draw a tree where they can kind of of groupings that need goes up and moves their branch of the tree. I actually did this with I do it when I'm working who've never worked on a project before because they have the ability things we think need to be done, and this is how they group.&quot; But it's a physical activity, and, obviously, I don't but this is part of a being able to do this. But we work off of this to be able to understand We actually use this cause we were trying, both my husband and I decided we'd better teach our daughters. We did this for both of their weddings. We have the Post-its that were on the wall for the different areas on the wedding. It was kind of an overkill in some areas, but it did point out had left out. Part of it is being able Once we start to understand to do, now we have to figure out who is going to be there. Talked previously a little talked the project team. As we said, stakeholders are anybody who could be impacted by the project or could impact the project. We need to understand those people. We need to understand Why they would be involved in the project, what interests they might have, what influence they could have on us. Are there interdependencies between those various stakeholders that, well, if this one says this, is gonna say the opposite. Or if I can sell the concept to one, they can help me sell and what kind of potential impact. Once again, working with of projects that I have in the past, one of my students said, &quot;You know who my biggest stakeholder and the one that causes That's lobbyists because if I'm working there are lobbyists back in the background that could affect what They could stop it, I don't even know who they are. I don't know what they're doing.&quot; They're those blind stakeholders that we have to understand they're out there. How am I going to figure I'm still not sure how we do that, but at least recognizing that they exist is one of the key. The project team, as we talk about it, are the people who are actually gonna help us do the work. I said, this could be the fact that I have a supporting expert. I have the nursery down the street that I can go ask questions of. I actually have people and we call those the sellers. They're selling their services to us. I could have business partners. In this case, you have a partnership here between the university That means on this project, a beginning and an end, these are different people They have to be able to communicate. They have to have different roles. The customer and who represents them, because, obviously, to every customer or everybody who's gonna be involved in this, we who represent those They're all part of the team. They may be part of a core team that works directly on this or they where we continue to move out and get certain people involved Very definitely in today's world, it varies on the culture, the scope and the location of these members. Erica is working virtually from here. Doesn't stop anything. She's in New Mexico, we're That is today's world. We have to understand on our team in different locations. We could have full-time people that are all co-located in one location. It used to be this was the preferred way. We're realizing that it is not happening, not available, not able to happen anymore, so we have to be able to move in to either part-time teams, where we bring people or we actually go into a virtual world, where we have the team Virtual teams have little or none of the face to face, the actual people being able to talk to each other. They're enabled through technology. We all know kind of some not being able to figure out what people are really saying when because of the wording they use or there's no emotion forgets to turn off the they're screaming, and they're not. But those are the things that can really add to a team. They can also cause a lotta challenges. The positive is you're able to pick up on expertise from people all over. You're not constrained to what you have in that local area. I could even say that in my case, go back to my landscaping thing, I have a virtual team, I can go out there and that don't even know that I'm working on, unless I actually communicate directly with them. Those employees that are working remotely, and more and more this is happening, different shifts, different Sometimes a challenge. Obviously, if you're who's over on the other side of the world, we have hour differences, at it as positive because in that situation, we would work all day. We would do testing, we'd what was working, what wasn't. We sent a message at the end of the day. They would work while we were sleeping. We would have a meeting first thing in the morning to say this is what we did, this is what we were able to do. So we, in effect, were able to work a 24-hour shift by of the team working. Did we have to have some meetings early in the morning and late a night? Absolutely. But the benefit outweighed that we came up with. The other thing is just the whole cost of getting everybody together. It is huge. That's one of the reasons why so much of the training that we're doing now is going into a virtual, online world because people don't have the luxury or the ability, cost-wise, to a location to take a course anymore. It just makes it unable to be done. Some of the challenges, though. Obviously, misunderstanding, especially when we have words that don't understand. We talk about a communication model where there's noise and what somebody hears. Being able to feel isolated. There are certain in this type of a role. As a project manager, we They need that face-to-face contact, they need the people connection. If you put 'em out by themselves, pretty soon you'll see them leave. They'll go to another organization or another job where The technology has a cost to it. Obviously, if we have to have a virtual team, and the rest of the projects are all being done in a co-located manner, we probably can't do that because as you all have seen here, is very, very high. You trade off the benefits of the cost and you look at what can you provide, how through this technology at that point. I mentioned briefly the You also have a lot of personal skills that are gonna have to come into play, especially when you start talking about how you're gonna communicate and how you're gonna Especially, even understanding because if you don't that walk by each other and will not look each other in the eye, locations, but they will in however way we have even know there's a conflict there. So that's another challenge Let's go one step further, virtual teams that are within a as opposed to globally spread. We end up having a lotta which, in Southern a thing to handle because of and people that we have in That isn't the same if other parts of the United States. They do not have the extra cultures, the multicultural environment. People that are in the in the Southeast, they've been there for five and six generations. They do things their way. It's a very difficult We could have a lotta different industries that we don't have, especially here in Southern California, that some of these other countries. Different languages. I actually taught a class for Dow Chemical, and I was teaching in Holland. I'm speaking in English, an exercise to do. I walk from table to table. I'm listening to these and they're talking French. Then I walk around, I talking Dutch. Then I'd come back a little bit later and they may be talking German. I'm going, &quot;Okay, hold on, guys. How do you know what Well, we all know all of to be able to communicate, and whoever starts speaking chooses the language they're more comfortable of us understand that. Unfortunately, I don't in the United States. I think we force everybody to use English, even if it is not their first language. As a result, we have the problem. When I was over there, I spoke Spanish. I didn't speak any of these other ones. There was one guy who spoke Italian, so we kinda could communicate cause it was close enough. But I felt very inadequate with these people understanding, you know all these various to communicate and understand. If, for instance, something came up and the person that's speaking German got kind of far off and was using words that the rest didn't understand, they would tell him to switch back, and English became the common language. But still, when they're doing an exercise, when they're working like that, the different language makes a difference. So part of what we have to do when we're working in this virtual, this is even more important to look at the effective communication cause that communication has to be timely, it has to be clear. How do we know if it's clear? We need the feedback to be able to say, &quot;Did you understand what I just said?&quot; Because a lotta times, obviously doesn't happen. We also need to be able to have this mutual trust of each other. We need to be able to work together, and yet interdependently so that we can get the task accomplished. So once we identify and who's gonna help us do it, then we have to start figuring out when. Unfortunately, I think this project management is, is a Microsoft Project schedule, and it's not, it is not at all. You can do a schedule without In fact, those third-graders, after they took a picture of their tree, then they asked 'em to and go to a different wall and put them in the order in which Guess what? That was their schedule. They were able, without saying anything about dependencies or or anything else, I need to do this before I can do something else. They knew that. We all know that. You don't plant bulbs until you've dug up the ground and put some good dirt in. Well, you can, but you might not have anything grow. So part of that, you have to understand. Yes, a lotta times we to help us do this because it allows us, when we make a little change, to be able to figure out what the impact of that is. So what happens if it rains? It actually does rain There's certain things that get delayed as a result. Did we put anything into &quot;Okay, if it rains on next Tuesday, what am I gonna do?&quot; Next Tuesday we might have even though it doesn't mean it will, but next month, is it Don't know. Is it gonna snow in Las Vegas? It did a week ago. It did a couple a years ago to the point where it closed down the airport. Do they now start putting things into their project to say, it might snow, and if it does, it's a major stoppage. So what we have to identify is what do we need to do to be able to figure out taking what we have to do, who's gonna do it. We have to figure out now when. When does the task need to be done? When are the resources gonna be available to do that? The one thing we always laugh about is the fact that if something that's probably gonna throw more than anything else because you have to be completed with what before they come to inspect it. If they don't come when to come, who knows when that inspection's going to get done. Go back to CityCenter. They're taking apart brick by brick, or wall by wall, because it wasn't inspected and the inspection wasn't correct. They can't implode the building, but they have to take it down because the inspection was not and they continued to work. Once again, we have to understand when things have to be done. We have a couple a methods we talk about, critical (sound cuts out), You've all heard about the critical path. It's the longest path, it's the path. These are the things that have to be done, and if anything's delayed, your whole project's gonna get delayed. We try to make sure we manage that path. There's also this thing If you're not familiar that you read &quot;The Goal,&quot; g-o-a-l, by Goldratt. He talks about this as being a, it's a theory of as a novel, as a story. You can visualize what has to be done, but the idea is that there's certain critical resources, and and if they're not working and not there when they need to be done, He talks about what you need to do to be able to keep the project moving. Do we have critical Absolutely. We have somebody that and if they're not here, this thing could have a problem. I think, in some cases, I'm because if I hadn't been this might have had a problem. Could I do it virtually driving up the freeway? Probably not the same quality. Part of what we have to to put some buffers in. Fancy word to say, we we need some things put in there so that we make sure. I come early to make Don't wanna get into that portion. So once we've figured out what, actually I have to figure out the why, then the what, the who, the when, we start to talk about There's a number of different approaches that we talk about. Then there's a lotta I don't wanna go into a whole lot on this, but just, there's terminology that we probably need to understand. There's what we call where we have certain and until we are completely sure of that, we don't go to the next step. Obviously, you don't until you have blueprints and you have certain blueprints approved. How much? Do I go into where my if I'm building a house? Probably. Do I understand how the closet's gonna be laid out, where are the rungs? No, I'm not gonna get to that point yet, but I do have to have be completed in order for me to go to the next step. That's what the When I get into the I say, &quot;Okay, we have portion of the house, upstairs blueprint yet.&quot; We know the basic, we know where the load-bearing walls have to be, so we can put those do the rest. So we start to overlap to shorten the length of that schedule. We have a new one that we talk about when we talk about adaptive life cycles. This is usually applied to Agile. I don't wanna spend a but I do wanna talk a little bit about it because in our world today, everything has to be shortened. Everything has to be we've gotta get this out. The problem is when we if we wait, let's go back If we wait until the before we start doing we're gonna have some problems because we're gonna have it out there, and then we have the marketing for it. It could also be that what we do is, let's say it's a What we may wanna do is say, &quot;Let's get the first session, and what worked, what didn't work, and then we can reprioritize is because maybe what we learned is that what we thought originally was gonna be part of the second as important as a few other things.&quot; So we basically chunk the work into smaller groups and say, &quot;This is what needs to go first. We'll try it, we'll see what When we get to the next one, we kinda know what we're gonna do, but we figure out that, well, maybe we we change some things or the way we did it so it works better.&quot; These are what we call iterations. We usually have a fixed time that says we will do what we can or within this amount of money. Then we'll, when we get to that point, we'll decide what do I do next. So rather than re-landscaping my entire house, I may say, &quot;Okay, I'm gonna concentrate on the front yard.&quot; I have this amount of of money. I'll do what I can, and then I'll decide in the next iteration, do or do I move to the backyard? Where's my priority? So I'm able to change and adapt. This especially has to in any sorta marketing effort because the world changes. So as we said, we take this information, we reprioritize it, we figure out how much we can do within that period of time, and then we incorporate some things that are probably some of the best practices for project management. That is what they call At the end of each one the whole team sits back and says, &quot;What did we do right that we need to continue doing? What could we do better? Let's immediately implement not wait till the entire a couple a years, to be able to make that, but to be able to go through and do that.&quot; So once we've done the planning, now we can start performing, wrong. Once we've started the planning, then we can start to going to overlap. Actually, I went, go back here a second because I had another and I realize I don't That has to do with rolling wave and progressive elaboration. They're really fancy ways to figure out what I'm gonna do?&quot; I mentioned this, that I don't always know exactly what I need to So what I do is I put almost and I say, &quot;Okay, I think,&quot; and I'm gonna continue to use my gardening exercise. You can tell where I've It's spring, I actually this morning, so spring We'll lay out this and say, the front yard. Then I think I'm gonna go to the back, then I think I'm gonna et cetera.&quot; So I have that line out there. I know that there's certain things that I do on the front yard that are going to also be done on the kinda the same thing. So I will put information at a little bit less detail for the backyard. What I do third, maybe I know what it is, and maybe I don't even know. Maybe it's just a placeholder to say, okay, that's phase three. I don't know what I'm gonna do. I'll figure out when I get there. That's rolling wave. Rolling wave says you concentrate on what you're doing now. You kind of know what's gonna come next. You may have an idea of the out time. You don't try to figure out everything right now because things change, regardless which methodology you're using. Progressive elaboration, goes down. So I'm now doing my front yard. I know that's what I'm doing. I need the very detail go into exactly what needs to be done. When I get to the backyard, I will do the same. I will drill down, terminology we use in business intelligence, but I will get more and more detail when I So when I'm doing the planning, regardless what kinda project you're doing, you need to figure out what do you know, what do you think you know, kinda what's out there and but don't waste the time trying to drill these other two down at this point in time cause I don't know enough. Concentrate on what allow yourself the ability So that's why, when we talk about moving from planning into performing or doing, we actually don't and then move on to actually We start the planning, that need to be done, and then we look at how that, as we're doing the work, how does that apply back to what I said was going to be done. Go back to my Cheshire Cat. If I don't know where I'm going, then I guess I don't need to figure out, I can go anyplace. I also don't know anything, either. So part of what we do is we look at what we and we look at what we've When it rains, we look I was supposed to be I'm not.&quot; So what do I have to do? I have to make some minor adjustments. If I had enough wiggle room in there to say, &quot;Okay, what I was I could either do next Saturday that's fine.&quot; Based on resources, do What do I need to do? So what I'm looking at gonna get accomplished and what I've actually been able to do and what adjustments I need to make. Sometimes we have to be a little hard nosed. We have to say, &quot;That was not in the original plan.&quot; That's a project manager's job. In my case, I have a subproject manager who's the one that tells me, &quot;That wasn't what you originally wanted to do. That's a change request. You have to get it approved.&quot; Cause he's a project manager, too, and we talk this type of But it's a case of saying, you were gonna do. Don't change your mind midstream without figuring out what impact it has on what you said you were gonna do.&quot; Once again, go back to Agile approach says I only need to be able to concentrate on a short period of time, like two weeks, and I know that during that time, this is what I'm gonna work on. When I get to the end of now what I'm gonna do That way I allow change to happen, but not when I'm midstream Granted, this can happen. It may have to. When we get that piece of concrete that was not in the schedule, I had to do something about it. We had to look at it and is this gonna have on us? How much time's it gonna take away from what we had planned? Do we need to go get some other piece of equipment to get this Those are all the types when you manage change. We talked about very to be able to work through this, but the key during this Communicate with everybody. Communicate with the people on the team. Communicate with the sponsor. Communicate with the stakeholders. If I'm working with things, I'm talking, I'm communicating. Communicating can be can be different ways, depending on what I need to do. One of the tools we use, and this is a little detailed, but when we put this plan ever do it exactly the way we said we were gonna do. It just is impossible, even if you've done this type of project 20, 30 times. Think about a pilot taking off. A pilot takes off. He's done it millions of times. He has a checklist to tell him what to do. He also keeps track of when things are not exactly the way they're supposed to be. But he also understands that there's some wiggle room between and what is still allowed. Obviously, with the crash that we had a couple a days ago up in Santa Monica, there was a case where the pilot understood the problem was farther than the allowable variance, &quot;I have a problem. I need to go down. I need to go back.&quot; So part of that is understanding where I thought I was and is that within that wiggle room or do I need to correct back on track, or am I seeing a problem that's starting to occur, and therefore, I'm gonna have to put some to make sure this doesn't That's part of what we're doing in here. Once again, we talked about When I'm on a project there's always gonna have to happen. We talk about there being One is a corrective action. That's where I need to fix something that I'm doing today that's not really being done correctly. It may be I have the wrong I need to reschedule some things. That's a corrective action. A preventative action a change so that things so that they get better Preventative measures to make sure we stay on course. The last one is, obviously, We need to fix it. That fix may take time, may take money. Whatever is happening, we If we're not monitoring what we're doing, we may not realize that We have just gone through and seen a lot of situations where trouble right now because of things that were happening and didn't communicate about it, and therefore, being able because they waited so long to do it, it made a huge impact and the brand. One of the things that we talk about, as far as a project One is we should be preventative and proactive. Preventative in trying problems from occurring, either because we put things in place, we've so there's some slippage but we also need to be proactive. We have to be looking to stay on top of it, and saying, &quot;Okay, well, I'll wait and see if and tells me there's a problem. Then I'll figure out what to do.&quot; It doesn't work. We've got to be able to and see that something is happening. Obviously, I fly a lot when I'm doing a lot of my teaching. Because I fly a lot, I I know when a flight is before anybody ever says it because I'm proactive as far as listening to what's being said. I was traveling with a team member a few months ago, and I said to them, I said, &quot;Look, we're gonna have a problem. I can tell. You call the rental car company and get us a rental car. I will call the hotel and We were ahead of because I was able to be proactive. I also knew that on the rental car, I could cancel it and no cost. The hotel we waited a we knew we would incur When we talk about one of the other pieces that I mentioned, the I guess the most important thing to say is that first of all, you need to be as concise as possible, especially in communications what to do, what you expect so it's right there. Ya need to put it in the right format, whether it needs to be verbal or written. If it's within a contract, how things have to be communicated. Making sure it's done at the right time, not waiting until later on and saying, &quot;Oh, I shoulda told ya I was busy and things were going on.&quot; Making sure it's the right impact. Let's not scream wolf when it doesn't need to be. If you start doing that screaming wolf, what's gonna end up happening is after you've done nobody's gonna listen to you anymore. So you need to understand how important this communication is, et cetera, as we go through that. Then the appropriate context, depending on who we're communicating to. Obviously, most of us in &quot;Do not send anything out Let somebody from public determine how it's going to be worded, who's gonna say it, not you.&quot; Once again, that's the appropriate contact we need to have. Because communication is so important, this is probably the one plan that I do on a real project within a business. What I'm understanding here is two things, who do I have to communicate to and what communications am I going to deliver to those people? How am I gonna deliver it, the amount of detail because, obviously, if I do a status report, the status I give to one from the amount of detail that I give to a higher manager. What is the time frame? How often do I deliver this information? We all get these emails that are blasted out meetings or whatever. Sometimes they are way too frequent, and to the point where we get so many, we start to ignore 'em. So we have to, once again, look at when we send it out, how often we send it out. Who are the people that are gonna provide the information to you so you can communicate it out? What information do they need to provide? When do they need to provide it to you so you have time to I put this constraint that were happening right now within the government to understand what are regarding communications. What can you say, how do you say it, where is it kept, what are that you need to know? Every organization, and greater, within the type of regarding communications now. As a project manager, we with those. Also, we talked about timing of people that are coming into inspect. If you have to have approval of a document before it can be sent out, ya need to figure out to get that approval because if you say, &quot;I'm on Thursday, send it out on Friday,&quot; and I'm going to assume that three people are going to be able to sign off on this so I can get it out by end of day Friday, and one of those people are out of town, what do I do? So I need to be able to figure out what is the workflow, what is the steps that have to be done to before I put it out. So I have the work, it's progressing. We're gonna assume, at this point in time, we did what we said we were gonna do, at least for the first phase. So we're gonna celebrate, but before we celebrate, Remember the old cartoon until the paperwork is done? That's what we're talking about here. We need to be able to say, what did we do? What worked? What didn't work? Taking all of the documents, all the information that we need to, putting it away. Why? Because we hope that when we can find it. I'm a hoard on paper. I'm a hoard on things that I've done. I probably have a copy and every course I've ever taught because there are times when I'm looking for that one picture or that one sentence that was on something That's what we're talking about here. Taking what you've done so that you can learn can learn from it. Also, we talk about if we have people that are working on a project, it's really important back to their management what their involvement was, doing recommendations, even as much as LinkedIn. How important is it if somebody is looking to potentially hire a person, they go to LinkedIn, they look that that person has received. That's exactly what we're talking about. Doing an assessment, an appraisal of whoever's been doing that, to be able to give them some information that they can use future. They did a really great job. Maybe they didn't do as great a job, but you can always find If you can't say something nice, figure out how to say something nice. You have to do that. Then we celebrate the project's success. We have a time. Granted, more and more organizations are cutting the budget for that. There's ways to celebrate without spending a lotta money. Part of this, also, is to be able to, as I say, validate. I need to have what I I was going to do. Need to make sure that and approved, and I'm between what I said I was gonna do versus what I have. Some of these are some of the deliverables. I wanna keep track of things because I wanna be able &quot;Why were they not approved? What do I need to do to not As I'm going through I'm trying to make sure we were going to do has been done and accepted. There's also this last with what we call administrative closure. That's the paperwork. I know we all hate it, and I know we all try not to do it, but it is so critical for us to be able to take the time to put this together, both of understanding what we to say, if we wanna do this again in the future, and maybe it's not do this exact thing, but it's something similar, Being able to put that all together. Now that the project's finished, we need to sit back and look at ourselves as a project manager. What are the types of competencies that we need to have, First of all, if we are and managing a team and an effort, we probably need to have some idea of what we should be doing. Even if it's just at that why, what, who, when, how, and then actually monitoring what's going on. But we also need to be able to perform. We need to be able to to accomplish what we're doing. Once again, unless you're you are talking about You're talking about those people, to be able to communicate with those people as to effectively, so they know as opposed to a picture and here's what you think, being able to go through there. There's also some behaviors and they are becoming more critical in today's world. That has to do with some of the attitudes we have towards each other, as a team, between our stakeholders and ourselves, some core personality characteristics that we need to be able to realize. When we're managing or leading, it's very different than doing everything on my own when I'm only trying to tell myself what to do. I have a almost Watching how she's learning and how she's picking up she comes into contact are shaping her personality. She is exposed to a As a result, you can see she of how she communicates and how she reacts to situation. The other thing is, as a project manager, we know this project or at least, we should have figure out what those constraints were, and we need to be able to figure from the why are we doing this and what are we doing, to actually accomplishing it, and yet staying within those constraints. As we said, when we start looking at the constraints of cost and time, maybe we have to make and those are things that we have to know. When I was working on after Hurricane Katrina, the executives decided we will reopen one year to the day of Hurricane Katrina. I'm looking at what needed to be done, going, &quot;There is no way we can get all of this accomplished.&quot; This was a major casino. So I started saying, of the things that I and how am I going to put together a story to sell this?&quot; One of the things that, if you remember, Hurricane Katrina hit at If you look at a retail the end of the summer, to get rid of all their merchandise before they bring in their Thanksgiving, Christmas stuff, right? So I thought, hmm, why don't I delay that opening of that retail from August until at least October? That I don't have to concentrate on it right now, and I can put it in here. So I knew, even though I had a constraint, when the CEO said, &quot;We will open one day to the day that the hurricane hit,&quot; he didn't say what was going to open. So I used that as my opening to say, &quot;Okay, so can you tell me, do we need all 13 Or can I open just the and the coffee shop?&quot; Then maybe open the next one a month or so later so I can do this rolling wave, progressive elaboration things, without using those terms for him. But the idea of being able to look at the constraint and to work within that constraint. What PMI has done is they have started to move from that technical, that the project manager must do, put together a charter and a schedule and a scope and all of these variances, and start to look at these things called interpersonal skills. They're also known as soft skills. They are competencies (sound cuts out) help project managers in those type a situations some of the ways that we need to work. Some of 'em have to do with I'm not gonna go into this here, but this is an area that every at least a basic understanding of what emotional intelligence when you're working with a group, and especially as a leader of that group. The group facilitation. We mentioned that earlier. This is an area where learning how to be a facilitator, to interact and communicate and put ideas together, huge skill that needs to be done. It could be looked upon as I look at it as more of a way to get things accomplished. The last one talks about the balance of ethical, interpersonal and conceptual skills that you need to use as you look at things that are occurring, and how are you going to react to it. Obviously, you can look at it and say, &quot;Well, if I ignore it, No. What's the impact? What do I need to do, ethically, as well as for the better of the entire group? In the PMBOK that I mentioned earlier, there's an entire appendix now that has to do with skills on leadership, skills on team building, how do you motivate teams, how do you communicate, what are the different delivering the right at the right time. How do you influence people without being a dictator, but still being able to get the job accomplished? How do you make decisions? Are they gonna be group decisions? Are they going to be, that rules, or am I gonna have a plurality and let people that have Understanding political and cultural awareness. Depending on the project you're in, depending on the organization, depending on where you live, this is all something that we need Understanding a little give and take. That win-win situation I read recently where on a team, don't do a competition because when you do a competition, somebody loses. As a result, do something as opposed to this person winning and this person losing. Sometimes we kind of do We need to look at that. How do I build trust? What are the different ways? How am I looked upon as a project manager? Am I looked upon somebody who's an expert in project I obviously wasn't an expert in putting in a phone system, but by the time I had to do that, I had another skill that I had because of my other work, I had the expertise associated with me to say, &quot;We can handle this.&quot; How do we handle conflict management? Huge term, huge concept and something that we can talk about at later time. How do we coach, how do Because regardless, even my daughters, I was helping 'em do their wedding, but I was and mentor them and trying to break down what needed to be done. Reduce the stress level, as to different areas, as we went into that. Kinda one last thing I wanna talk about. PMI has this code of ethics, which is a code of conduct that to all project managers who either (sound cuts out) who have a certification, who volunteer with PMI. It's mainly to be able an organization has a project manager, that they can understand It also helps us as individuals look at that ethical decision. When should I do something, especially conflict of interest. Then being able to look Project management is a profession. There's a lotta people. The PMP, which is the project is 30 years old this year. There are thousands of There's thousands of project managers. There's also a need for even more in the future. We know we don't have that. But we need to understand Our code of ethics basically It has the aspect that You must take on the responsibility to do what you say you're gonna do. You need to respect the people that you're working with, your team members, your You have to have that respect for them. You need to be fair. You can't take and have some people do things that you don't have others, making that fairness. And last, being honest, telling the truth, not lying, not covering So as we say, we have both aspirational and mandatory standards. The mandatory are things that we must do, like we must not cheat, we must not lie. If we have a contract, we have to meet the needs of the contract, you don't have the conflict of interest, In fact, well, most of us have to sign an additional conflict every time we do anything, which is fine. I found this quote by it was really critical &quot;It's not hard to make decisions once you know what your values are.&quot; That's basically what this is. It's being able to understand where you should be going, and therefore, I'm gonna skip this because of time. Just one last kind of plug. PMI has a academic program that they present. That's part of why I'm what I represent is the outreach to the academic community. We have a number of different things that we are doing, as far as material, et cetera. But trying to work with that are becoming project especially people that are, like, MBAs that will become a get a job, whether they because they will have Anyway, I hope that to expose some of the to you and be able to have you understand some of the basic good practices that we have, that we try to do. I thank you. (applause) - Greta, thank you so much. We'll take some questions now. I'll start with some questions from our virtual attendees, and give our in-person audience here a chance to gather their thoughts. The first question comes from someone who's interested in the field and had a question about the best path to take, best career path. The question's if project management requires both project management skills and knowledge, in addition to knowledge of the particular field, whether it's manufacturing or logistics or IT or whatever it might be, what typically is the path? The project managers that are out there, do they normally develop skills first, and then add Or does it tend to be vice-versa where there are people in project management expertise on top of their expertise in manufacturing or IT or whatever the case may be. - Well, I'm looking at some of the people that are project managers saying, &quot;Okay, I hope I say this right.&quot; Let me tell you where I came from. I started out working on a project. I started out as a programmer years ago, became an analyst, designer, and then moved into more of a team leader type of thing. In my thing is, I think you either have a direction that you want to and teamwork to get things accomplished, as opposed to being that person that sits and is kind of a loner by themselves. As a result, somebody who just is really happy doing code or laying concrete or whatever, may not have the desire to whereas if they get to to start maybe moving up and managing the team, that's where it kind of goes. There are certain skills, there are certain bents. We see a lotta project managers who know the tasks, but they don't It has to be a mix of the two. - Great. This question gets into you were alluding to towards the end of your presentation. This learner outlines As a project manager, what do you do in a situation where you have, say, an eager team member who for an area where he or she doesn't really have the appropriate skills, and the project manager someone who is a little more experienced in this area? Is the project manager's to make the call that most efficiently, or in that scenario, might there be some room like the morale of that eager team member or helping that team member - I look at it and say, very to determine who was gonna be on my team. I usually walk into a contract situation, especially where the team is there, and I have to work with those people. Some of 'em being overly thinking they could do So I let them teach me. If they think they're over, if they think they really know what they're doing, they're eager, hey, participate with me. On the other hand, can I map or match them up with somebody that doesn't have those let's say they have the technical skills in an area, but they soft skills that are with somebody that they can work together to kind of rub off on each other. But I think the key is when we have to get the job have to make sure that on here actually can accomplish it. Very seldom do we have the ability to choose who that team member is, as well as being able to release a team member. That's the sticky part, is at point, what point in time. I've had to do that in where I've had to figure out how to move that person off the project, while still allowing them to save face. So a lotta times, it's a project that I can say is more critical, here ya go, type of thing. But I think the project once again, that organizational structure I didn't talk about, that depends a lot on how much responsibility and authority the project manager has for that team. - Another question about How do business leaders value kind of formal In other words, are to hire or engage a or are they, as opposed to being apt to just make the assignment to someone in the relevant department? Does that make any sense? - Yeah, it makes a lotta sense. I think a lot of it has to do, once again, with the organization structure working in because in a functional organization, we talk about the fact that, most often, the projects are done within They're managed by the functional manager, not really a PM. They're staffed by the They don't really, a lotta Also, there's a cost associated, and we see that a lotta times. I think one of the reasons why, unless you have an organization that does a lot of projects, you see a full-time project manager or project managers in that organization. They will be brought in to be able to help manage that project, and when the project is completed, they're let go, which is what you expect. It's a start and an end, I like being a project manager. I don't like the day-to-day operation. I like the idea of I have a project, I have something I have to do, I get it done. I think that's something that some of us feel the same way. - Any questions from our audience? Just one second. - I just wanted to ask, way of answering the question on what are your weaknesses? I'm the project manager, I may be having a lot of weaknesses, which, of course, I have, but answer this question on what exactly are my weakness? Because right now, I'm and not tell them my weaknesses, right? But if I am asked this question, how do I handle this? - I'm probably not the right person to answer that because with the same thing. Part of it, when I talked about why, the more research I can do on why they might be hiring me, what kind of organization it is, what kinda skills they would expect, and therefore, being able to figure out they expect, and I know I can do those. Maybe something that's not that critical. One of my weak skills I know that, but I get things done. But I also realize that's to do things because the more we wait till the last minute, that and we get under stress, as we might. That's probably a question (laughs) that other people here But you're right, you're your positives, and the &quot;Okay, let me think. If these are my positives,&quot; then let me see if I can as I'm restating my positives, to be able to state what my weakness is. That would be the thinking process I might go through. - Hi, Greta, thank you so I took several pages of notes. (laughing) My question to you is you mentioned that there's a greater need What do you think is fueling that need? - Just the fact that I that need to be organized to be done. I think what happens is because of things that have to be done, time frame, that whole idea of being able to get somebody who and get it accomplished, as opposed to, and it goes back to the previous question about can we just use If they have knowledge probably those skills of on track, could be A lotta times, they are, through kind of a project management assistant or some sort of coordinator type of hard skills, the hard But I think a lot of everything is done in a We have those constraints So therefore, being able to have somebody that can organize it and make sure that they stay on top of it, and not just expect everything to happen. I think that's part of where, I guess, the organizations, and I do you kind of agree with that, as to why we have projects? - Over here. I got a follow-up question. Just a follow-up question Do you see a greater of the value of bringing - Oh, absolutely. I think that, once again, most organizations realize upon a project, even that phone system, being able to have somebody that could stay on top of it, they're they're putting out. They wanna make sure that it gets done and that it doesn't get out of budget and out of control. Once again, the types of things. In my case, I tend to be able to see that, well, in you need to do these other pieces of it, so it's what we call a program, but that's neither here nor there. But the idea that, yeah, to not have to worry about that day-to-day operation. They're assigned, they're and you can assume that it's - I have a question that's kind of along the lines of the time constraints. If you're dealing with a project that has a strict time constraint maybe a task along the is, you feel is running behind, do you have any tips for a project manager to try and light a fire, so to speak, to make sure that that task completes on time so your project's not delayed? - There's two activities We call it schedule compression. We talk about the idea that sometimes being proactive and preventative. If I know that's gonna be happening, which I should, I should be able to see ahead of time we're gonna I can either maybe start it I run some risk that some rework, but maybe I can get pieces of it done ahead of time. That's one thing. The other thing is what we call crashing. That's where we throw more people onto it. Obviously, at some point in time, you reach this case where ya have too many people, and the communication and everything that needs to be done starts to go south, but those are some of the things. I think, in my mind, though, it's being able to understand there is a potential that this is gonna happen so I have time to think out that I need to do, rather than waiting until all of a sudden I see, oh, my god, not gonna make that. Working backwards from that time of when it's there, like the casino, I ended up actually telling my team, &quot;I know what the date of the opening is, but Your date is a month in some cases, even people that need to train on the system, we need to have people that could do this. I worked those different dates. I knew I had wiggle room in there, and that's the other thing. I always have. That's my official term is wiggle room. I always put those type a buffers in there so that I can handle. But staying on top of it, I'd rather be able to be proactive and try and figure out that it may happen or what might I have to do. Perfect example, you're driving up here. You have a time, you're at a certain time. Do I listen to the radio to listen to the traffic? Yes, so I know if there's coming early. There's all sorts a things you can do to be able to be that proactive. That just has to be - Greta, thank you for a You brought to bear so many points that are so important I like the comment that you made about how project management is so much more than the schedule, and you really need to look at all the phases. Then on top of that, talking about the softer skills. My question for you is, looking at all of the softer skills and having worked with so many different types of project managers, are really the most important soft skills that a strong project - I think the first is and the other is being being able to understand the team members, being able to encourage et cetera, as we go through. But I think you have to To me, communicate is by walking around, not sitting in my office. I never, ever was in my office. Once we ended up getting the cell phones, they could still get me all the time, but I need to be able to I need to understand what they're saying, what they're doing, where they're feeling, things like that, understanding that. Then being able to figure out you're behind schedule. What do we need to do to get this done? Do we need to add more people? Do we need to figure What do we have to do? So I would say those are the two main ones that I would see. You agree? - I think we can squeeze in two more. - Oh, dear. - Can the students (laughter) - He's a PMI member. And since we're doing a joint. (laughter) - I'll mention, PMI has a couple a different memberships. One is for those of us in the profession. It also has a student membership. The student membership is very, very reasonable. Through that, not only and capability to be part of these groups, be mentored, being able to volunteer and work with experienced the PMBOK Guide that you in an online version to anybody that's a member of PMI, which means if you're in a project management class, it probably makes sense for you to download it free of charge, rather than paying the whatever, There's another website that PMI just acquired. It's called projectmanagement.com. It is a fantastic resource. If you're not a member, a lotta free information out there. If you're a member of PMI, you have access to to templates, you have access to thousands of things that can help you. As a student, if I have to put together a project, (laughs) out there that are available to me. One of the things that to get students a little bit more involved because students are our future project managers. When we were in Las Vegas, our students were our volunteers for As a result, they were seen by the people in the chapter. Almost every one of 'em got a job after graduation because of that contact that they had made, the were able to receive that they did. We push very hard as far as being able to be involved. It's a great group of people. We just spent four days on a cruise, which, unfortunately, to do presentations, and with me hanging onto the podium, as we were rocking back and forth, but being able to work with other people, other key people that have gone through similar situations, it's a great networking opportunity for students, as well as as we say, in transition, between jobs. - I just have a quick question. That is basically when you're working on a project and you're what incentives or motivational tools do you utilize? - Well, one of the and I don't know if but whenever I had my staff meetings once a week, I would always have some sort of little candy bar, whether it was a PayDay or a Million and I would recognize somebody who did something well, or somebody who had made a mistake, but admitted to it so that we could make an adjustment to it. Just that little recognition. Obviously, there's other things that we can do to motivate, but of motivational that we study because you have to understand where a person is to be able to understand For instance, if I were to say to Robin, for instance, &quot;Guess what? You can work from home virtually.&quot; But she's the type a person that doesn't feel comfortable unless with other people. That motivation, which a motivation and a benefit, a reward, ends up being a penalty because that's not where she is. We have to understand where people are, what motivates 'em. Sometimes a $25 gift card motivates people, and sometimes that's not what they need. This goes back to that I need to understand my people. I need to understand where they are, what's important to them, the sympathy, the emotion in order to, I guess, as to make sure I don't demotivate 'em. If you notice on the slide, those of us that are project managers have to have so many hours We have the PDU numbers to have to record this, just like you have your students as a project manager, certified project manager, is up there and the date - On behalf of the entire to thank both our partners at the Project Management Institute and Greta for a fantastic and Thank you so much. (applause)