[WIND BLOWING] This is awesome! Hey, it's me Destin. Welcome back to This video is ever had the opportunity to do. It's incredible. What you just saw was That was me on a sled on my that's just popped through By the end of this to see what it's like I went out to observe a military I boarded the submarine. And when I got back, This happened right started hitting the US And things continue to change. This was before the murder has proven to be in the history of our country. This video was a very that no matter what's happening are hundreds of in the US Navy from all security and stability These people have taken an oath and they take that So what's so cool about and in some upcoming hopefully, I get to share what these people are doing. How they're protecting at the far reaches And how they exactly do that. We as Americans, are in a But it feels like we're actually to the ideals the All that being said, that want to do harm to is an attempt to give you that are defending America The Navy is not just It's made up of people. We the people. These folks are highly skilled. They come from many And like I said, they've to defend the US Constitution. I'm going to introduce you to In a way you've A couple of years ago, the rim of the Pacific exercise. That's where the Navy in the region for exercise in the Pacific Ocean. ICEX is a three week that offers the US to assess its operational and train with other services, to increase capability and maintain regional stability to operate in the Arctic. To help you understand of this operation that the day after I left, intercepted Russian bombers, and fighters as they Camp Seadragon Which is the that we're going to travel to. It's located off This is a big deal. All right. So now that you have some let's do it. And to be clear, the Navy has They simply gave me tell the story as you see fit. It's a beast to even So let's start by takes to get to Camp Seadragon. I flew across the which was a long flight. But I hadn't really it was from there up to Alaska. I didn't realize that as far I was only about halfway between Seattle and Fairbanks. Once I got to Fairbanks, and I decided to a couple of different before I continued the And by the way, it is I'm going to experience [LAUGHING] Oh! DESTIN: I had heard from that my camera gear might not but this is the moment to take that advice seriously. This is a problem. [LAUGHING] OK. We are testing the cold It looks like I'm I'm just recording to see what the camera does. OK. First thing I did in Fairbanks right here. And I got a little pressure I don't know if I want to measure the pressure Now I'm walking to the because I want to are going to be out on the ice So we'll see what they're doing. I think I'm also I don't know what I'm doing. So I'm walking to the And people are laughing at Apparently this is a bad plan. DESTIN: To be clear, I or appointments. My goal was simply to adjust to But I walked up and kept going until outside the where they study that ICEX 2020 relies on. I had no idea that Did you know that? The only university owned That is a gigantic rocket. They fire sounding and see what they can learn. DESTIN: I connected He's a science explained all the Arctic And introduced me to who told me all about the Fritz then did some could attend a special ICEX was happening. We're at the International at the University of DESTIN: Got it. And your the director, I am the director of the Center. DESTIN: And it's Hajo-- It's Hajo Eicken. DESTIN: Eicken. OK. Pleasure. Yeah. DESTIN: And so, my understanding is about how to keep when they're out on the ice. Yeah. I mean, we've got, who is taking care of that. We have one of our who's with the Geophysical on the ice. And we're a group a lot of experience and at what the best science just that little bit DESTIN: Got it. So you're going to be looking at the ice breaking and Yeah. I mean ultimately, The weather is potentially a of flying conditions. You know, blowing But what we really how does the ice respond changes in the ocean, and DESTIN: So you have people and you also have Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So we're communicating And kind of using satellites sources to give us the the situation is. DESTIN: This meeting There was far more planning Turns out, the was set up on is and they constantly have the situation with satellite and weather simulations. All to keep their Naval and And at one point dawned on me that this meeting for my own safety. Amazingly strong DESTIN: Mmhm. MAN (ON PHONE): Yeah the is now forecast to You know, pretty much WOMAN (ON PHONE): They did is from low to moderate. And then downgraded that DESTIN: So the next even further North. For the first time going North of the Arctic Circle Prudhoe Bay. On the flight up looking down at that I had never been When I landed, I was named Sergeant Santos. Manny handles the and gave me my first This town is crazy. It's basically the and, it's mostly occupied and tons of machinery. The atmosphere here was so cold halo around the sun. Which I can only to do with the ice Anyways, we headed over which serves as the Seadragon Over the they have to get over six out to camp, and this is it and then pack in onto It was here that I was to speak to the Admiral who OK. I'm sitting here. I should take my hat off. I'm sorry, sir. I'm sitting here with Admiral I'm trying to understand I am. So I'm the Commander of Undersea And I have the pleasure of up underneath within my domain. My warfare expertise. Because Undersea Warfare we control the undersea domain forces within the big Navy development centers. And within that, is the Because they own the Arctic. DESTIN: So what's Like, is this-- my this is a demonstration of forces and our allies. Is that what we're doing? Yeah, absolutely. One of the things is twofold. From my perspective, it's Submarine force Arctic of our priorities during ICEX. The other one is With our allies as honest with you, within the United States. Such as MIT Woods Hole, during our ICEX time frame. And the reason for that is, we have assured Arctic access as our combat credibility. So we, The Undersea Warfare own the tactic for the United States throughout the entire globe. To include the Arctic. And so that's what we're here. DESTIN: What are you trying You said, you But what are the capabilities to know that America has? I would like America to from all over the United States And we're very capable can defend our homeland. We can defend our strategic And we also want to with the community, our allies. And again, academic community. To ensure that we have to maintain our undersea DESTIN: This was a And some of the things that will make a lot more sense So we're here and sure I have the appropriate So, it's outside. OK. DESTIN: I don't have a tactical What do we do about that? Well, you just have DESTIN: [LAUGHING] So we're Bob works for the Arctic And if you look at their figure out what they do. Submarines under ice have unique challenges, and they I've got the first layer is this is for wicking? This is for wicking, from the wind and the cold. DESTIN: OK. BOB: It's your base layer, And then you have And you can do depending on what kind Your next layer can or your civilian clothes. Or, with the military, they'll of clothing for that layer. And then your outer to be your parka, your pants, and ear protectors. And that's pretty much you warm out in the Arctic. DESTIN: Now that I I want to introduce you to So I've heard about this It's Sofia. Why do they call I got to know. Like, have you researched-- like, do all the stuff with ice? What's the deal? Yeah, I work at the US DESTIN: Uh huh. SOFIA: And I have done Gone on the US Coast the Coast Guard cutter and now I'm at ICEX. DESTIN: What are you doing? You're tracking the ice? Yeah. I'm tracking the ice and tracking any fractures around it. DESTIN: So when we're you're going to see if it's Yes. DESTIN: Since ice on the ice in the Sofia sat me down and of stuff I was going to see. She explained what's is a long crack in the ice. She politely corrected me when Can I correct to you DESTIN: Please do. Icebergs are from glacial ice. DESTIN: OK. SOFIA: Ice that froze and that calving off is a berg. And this is all are called ice floes or cakes. DESTIN: My favorite thing she for was called finger rafting. That's when two large And right where they meet, will go over or under the other. And they end up interweaving It's crazy. Because if you look at a large it looks like it was like, I finger joint. Hence the name finger rafting. So you're tracking the Whether it's going to fracture? All that good stuff. Mmhm. DESTIN: OK. Sweet. Well, do me a favor. Keep us alive. Yeah. DESTIN: It's time to And to be clear, ice camp out in the deep water. Which means the to have to land on an ice floe. Before we boarded and our stuff on the scales So the Canadians are good at It's all we do. DESTIN: Yeah? That's awesome. Coming in, sir? Yup. So as you come in, the Just makes them DESTIN: OK. Fold them up as you're-- DESTIN: Sounds good. Twin-- so this is a twin otter? Yeah. Twin otter. So most you guys are scientists? Yeah. There are some students. DESTIN: Yeah? Professors and staff. All over the place. DESTIN: All over the place? We took off from Prudhoe into the Beaufort Sea. The Royal Canadian Air at Arctic flying, handle most of the transport. The ice was beautiful. The way it breaks up reminds me I saw leads and flows I started to be able ice versus multi-year ice. And while staring I chatted with the and asked them how they land ice. It was an interesting And right after that, we saw it. Camp Seadragon. Just before landing, we circled that had popped up out and it was amazing. This is a huge machine And it went under the I don't even know how far. And just popped up All my questions But they would have to have to land an airplane on So what exactly are you What we have working is acoustic navigation Because of course But what we have combining acoustic that allows us to get close under the ice. And that's what we're DESTIN: Nice! So you have beacons Yeah. DESTIN: And then They're out there. A couple of my guys are out So we'll have four and their communication buoys. And the vehicle will then Where it thinks it is. DESTIN: Right. And then on the then make a track back down to the vehicle and You are there. DESTIN: Ah. And then it's updating that. DESTIN: Oh, so it's It's like when you integrate. That's exactly it. It's the plus C. Plus C. Yeah. And also, we tell Where the camp is moving. What the ice is moving. Because it's using an upward speed relative to the ice. It gets confused when So we also tell it how DESTIN: Oh, that's awesome. So it's a really DESTIN: Oh, it's just Absolutely. DESTIN: Yeah. That's it. That's what PHD Exactly. DESTIN: [LAUGHING] I I'm just here to talk to you. DESTIN: Yeah, that's right! You're here to get Am I right? Am I right? Yeah. They're the ones DESTIN: You left me hanging. Oh. There you go. Thank you. Recaught it. How are you guys doing? Ready to go? Oh yeah. Absolutely. All right. So I can take two up here. And then everybody else can We'll go sledding. DESTIN: Oh, that's WOMAN: You want DESTIN: Sure. WOMAN: Front? Or-- This will be fun. DESTIN: This reminds it used to snow in Alabama. We would pull a tire [LAUGHING] This is awesome! DESTIN: The beauty and is striking. And it was meaningful for me together from all over the from and help each other. How's it going? Going great. DESTIN: I'm Destin. I'm Michael Cox. How are you doing? DESTIN: Where are Originally? Texas. DESTIN: This is not Texas. This is not Texas. This is by far from Texas. DESTIN: What are I am a part of ASL. DESTIN: Yeah? I just started-- DESTIN: The Arctic Yes sir. DESTIN: Yeah. What do you do? Uh, we set up camp. We dig holes and we make where they need to do. All of the teams. All the projects. We assist with DESTIN: So logistics? Logistics. DESTIN: When you say dig They got a project Dug a three foot by to do their project DESTIN: So you're keeping That's what-- yes. Between us and UIC, we Keeping it heated, and DESTIN: That's awesome. Thanks, Mike! Thank you! DESTIN: Pleasure to meet you! Take care! DESTIN: We're going to pretty soon, so my goal is said he's the guy What are we doing here? We are drilling a Make water. DESTIN: You're Making fresh water DESTIN: Nice. So is this salty? Uh-- You want to taste it? It's normal sea water so-- DESTIN: Yeah, I do, actually. Is it all right? Here's you a Let's do it. It's the sea water. That will actually be Whoa. That's very briney. Yeah. [LAUGHING] That is the saltiest DESTIN: So you're Andy? Yes. DESTIN: So, Hajo told Oh, right. You talked to Hajo already? DESTIN: Yeah. Cool. DESTIN: Yeah. So what are you up to? Aside from drilling I guess I'm here as Helped pick the Try and hedge our bets against underneath us. DESTIN: Yeah? Try to pick the right floe. And then I've also done Working with colleagues Engineering Lab as well. To try and study How strong ice is. What makes it break. And we predict if and where DESTIN: So like, fracture Yeah, it's fracture mechanics. It's understanding properties Like beyond the lab scale. A big enough scale where and heterogeneities. Unevenness in the ice the ice kind of in aggregate. The ice floe is our lab. DESTIN: Yeah? And specifically, is take this out of the lab. We're trying to make are too big to do in a lab. So I've got a radar sitting out there. And that's measuring in how the ice is moving. DESTIN: Uh huh. We can measure of the ice by a few centimeters DESTIN: Yeah. Strain. Strain. Exactly, yeah. DESTIN: Yes. Strain on the order of 10 DESTIN: Can you show me Uh, yeah. So this is on the DESTIN: Yeah. Interferometric DESTIN: Go ahead, And on the right is an DESTIN: Yeah. They're both essentially We're trying to measure Potentially down to which is what we would if the ice is just without actually cracking. But if we start to when we'd start to see You know, centimeters. Potentially meters of motion. And that's what we're DESTIN: Yeah, there's been some That's right. And so we've also got a couple And what we see is, you and then the stress drops and the stress Oh, so yeah, so this is rotating So we kind of got It's just getting to and then it's going to So the radar is doing DESTIN: So it's interferometry? It's interferometry, yeah. And it's actually got it's got antennae so it can interferometry and create a Although, I am primarily using looking at changes over time. So you know, it's to tell me how far and then I can measure to a small fraction This is a KU band radar with length, so we can DESTIN: Oh, yeah. So you've got-- so the measure up to 17 but you have to to get it shorter than that. That's right. Exactly. DESTIN: Yeah. That's cool. So we're measuring the DESTIN: Can we go see your Yeah. So it looks off where there's some They give a very, very precise-- DESTIN: Corner reflectors. Yeah, exactly, basically. And so it's going takes roughly five And so every five minutes of the position of There's about 20 And we can see changes And what we've seen so on an old pressure ridge. This is multi-year ice that Off behind is camp itself. And the ice behind us Thicker, older, colder ice. Off on this side where that's first year ice. Thinner, warmer, not so strong. DESTIN: But the is because it was smoother. That's right. DESTIN: So it's my understanding was selected based on old year ice so you could get or you know, basically But you can also get the That's right. So it's very difficult to make As you can see, it's gets that terrain from successive The first year ice So unless it's been busted it tends to be very smooth and So we want first year ice multi-year ice for the safety. It's less likely to fracture. I don't know if you there's actually quite a few We went up in the to kind of scout those out. And reassuringly, those in the first year ice. So they are circling us. I'm going to put my hat on a little bit cold. DESTIN: Yeah, my ears are too. So if I understand correctly, So you're using to measure strain between So this is your datum. Yeah. You're doing a two dimensional Yeah, that's right. DESTIN: OK. And have you analyzed We're actually in real time in DESTIN: Yeah? So you have optical for the Leica That's right. DESTIN: You have metal for the interfermetric radar? The sea ice is a DESTIN: Really? Yes. This is the command center And what we've got set up here data from the LSO-- the laser on the ridge top out there These arrows here of some of those reflectors. So you can see this ice out this ice is moving in a direction. Whereas, out here, the arrows So the old ice where we are is-- DESTIN: And where is camp? ANDY: Camp is right here. The laser strain system is right DESTIN: And where ANDY: The airstrip is in here. DESTIN: OK. And the reason it's on the young Is that correct? Because it's smoother. But what these data is the young ice is moving And if we see some ice is moving, then in between there's a crack. And we're trying to work How they develop, how and whether we can predict So I think our current at the end of that track. DESTIN: Can we walk closer? Yeah. And maybe Bailey but this is our Lieutenant Bailey Miller. DESTIN: Bailey Miller. Yeah. DESTIN: So, what's Is this a GPS track Correct. Yes. So, Andy's involved in the But pretty much once we we left a buoy there that And so then we're able to And it uploads via And then we can get a It updates every hour. So we have data of where our of currents and wind conditions DESTIN: So, where BAILEY MILLER: We are DESTIN: Yeah? BAILEY MILLER: Right now. We were going really slowly Mostly based off of the winds. And then yesterday of days of moderate winds and to the past month And over the past couple and we're heading If you zoom in, you data points are Southerly. Lieutenant Miller, to track where we are And then Andy is Like, what's happening locally. Is that what's kind of going on? We're both interested in and how the Beaufort Gyre is since we're living on it. DESTIN: Yeah, yeah. I'm kind of interested That's awesome. Over here we have And the camp safety watch is depending on how busy it is. They're keeping track that are going out on the ice. Since it's obviously we want to make sure that And that we know and that they're DESTIN: Oh, they're Can I see them tracking? Yes. DESTIN: Is that OK? BAILEY MILLER: Yeah. So we've got a live feed And we're able to keep track Also, the camp safety watch is Providing it to the aircraft that are DESTIN: So when we you were the guys that answered. Is that right? BAILEY MILLER: Yes. It is, indeed. DESTIN: Yeah. BAILEY MILLER: You're the DESTIN: The voice So what's up with this horn? That's the alarm DESTIN: For what? So, if I see a polar bear, DESTIN: Have you done it yet? Not yet. No. This is the closest I I saw something on this IR camera here. DESTIN: Yeah? Yeah. Right there. You can still see it. DESTIN: Yeah? And then in the morning, about I thought, polar bear time. So I grabbed the horn. Somebody came in the tent, And they said, that's DESTIN: [LAUGHING] So I stood down. DESTIN: That was your Right DESTIN: Did you have I had it in my if he didn't walk And I was going to go-- we Camp safety, camp Over, over. DESTIN: You were going Polar bear, polar bear. DESTIN: The submarines were and we got word that they So the lieutenant took us to the over. So do you love it? Yeah. Getting out of the This is definitely as far out DESTIN: I'm Destin. I'm Bob. DESTIN: Nice to meet you, Bob. MICHELLE: Hi. Michelle. My co-captain Hi, guys. DESTIN: What's up, Evan? Hey. DESTIN: After a thorough we spun up the to the sub for one of the of my entire life. [HELICOPTER BLADES WHIRRING] Well, that's a Hi and welcome. DESTIN: How are you doing, sir? We'll take your bags. We're going to go up the So we'll take these for you. DESTIN: Yes sir. Thank you. No problem. We'll take that. We're going to hold the When you get to the you're going to have to swing DESTIN: Yeah. While you're going when you get down you're to have to shift around going to change. DESTIN: Right. But other than that, and we'll get you Will you hold this? DESTIN: My name is Destin. Arnell. I'm the chief of the boat. DESTIN: You're the Nice to meet you, Arnell. No problem. DESTIN: All right. Following you guys. All right! [HELICOPTER BLADES WHIRRING] [INAUDIBLE] ARNELL: Normally the guys but we're not high enough So there's a little water We couldn't open DESTIN: Great. Sounds good. [INAUDIBLE] DESTIN: You want me to go first? Go first. DESTIN: Cool. ARNELL: Here. Make sure you take a good step. A good grip. [INAUDIBLE] DESTIN: What's up, man? Not much, sir. DESTIN: How's it going? Good. DESTIN: Nice to meet you. Same. DESTIN: Nice to meet you. What's your name? Caleb. DESTIN: Nice to meet you, Caleb. [INAUDIBLE] CALEB: You can step And then the rungs DESTIN: On the left side? CALEB: Do you see them? DESTIN: Yeah. Got it. CALEB: When you get down to DESTIN: Yeah. Just be careful about that. DESTIN: OK. Sounds good. Can I take my gloves You can leave them on. DESTIN: All right. So there we go. Even getting to the boat When I went down in the boat, thought I would see. In fact, it was hard to point without capturing In fact, that's where It's being OPSEC reviewed. Operational security. So we're going to wait on that. In an upcoming episode I'm going to show But for now, I want to the sponsor for this In fact, I had to pay for It's Audible. Audible is a place where to incredible audio and get yourself outside of If you want to do that by going to Audible or texting the word Whether you're mowing, whatever it is going to be able to consume and you're going to The only point of reference was Endurance by Alfred Lansing. This is an incredible story adventure to the South They get stranded in a boat. Like, I had the option of or an airplane. They didn't. By the way, my favorite is Frank Worsley. His navigation skills what saved the entire crew. This is an incredible that I desperately It's true, too. It's not fiction. When you go to audible you get a free audio book. And I recommend Endurance. However, you can get You can also get unlimited That's 30 days of Audible slash smarter, or texting Anyway, that's it. I really want you to subscribe about this submarine stuff. Imagine Destin in with a camera and It's incredible. There's science I loved it. So please consider feel like this earned it. If you trust me at this point I would even you would consider If you click on the bell by it'll actually give you a Big thanks to the me access to all this stuff. Thanks to everybody at ice And thank you to I hope you enjoyed this video. I'm Destin. You getting smarter every day. Have a good one. Bye.