Remain standing. Once you've hugged enough, put those hands together and welcome our We're about to be out on the road this week for Knoxville, Tennessee; Atlanta area; I'm going to get Tim Riggins, and Dallas, and Houston. Elevationnights.com. Don't buy it from a scalper. Don't support We're expecting God to do great, amazing God is good. God is so good, so I have to share with you is one that everybody message is for somebody. I don't know who this So, look at somebody and say, It's going to be good. I'm going to read with a twist, and not for but for the sake of something that I believe Matthew 15:29: &quot;Jesus left there Then he went up on a mountainside and sat down. the blind, the crippled, the mute and many others, The people were amazed when they saw the the lame walking and the blind seeing. Jesus called his disciples to him and they have already been with me I do not want to send them away hungry, or they 'Where could we get enough bread in 'How many loaves do you have?' Jesus asked. He told the crowd to sit down on the ground. Then he took the seven loaves and the fish, and gave them to the disciples, and they in turn Afterward the disciples picked up seven The number of those who ate was four I'm calling this message We've all been there. We will so I can't think of a more important class Let's just pray one more time for the Lord, you said that you would do that, that of the things that matter and teach us the for these people, for everybody who something that is not enough, but you are more space and presence of mind to see you as you I made a list in my phone. I'll read it to you. &quot;Time. Money. Sleep. Energy. Friends. Confidence. Discipline. Experience. Joy. Peace. Wisdom.&quot; 15. I thought it would be cool to do 15. Fifteen feels like they don't have enough of right now: opportunity, authority, freedom, flexibility, Everyone will have to navigate an area of &quot;not me to know that for all of the things I don't you don't have enough of with your needy self don't be intimidated. Not in here anyway. We're all here because we need Jesus, and Jesus fully man. At the sound of that truth echoes He is enough. I am enough. Yet there's Everyone will have to pass through, in different same neighborhood called not enough. We have I have found that not only a battle that never goes away, but it is What I mean by that is when there have been seasons in my life where I only to find another one screaming, &quot;Hey! Now that Yeah. I thought about this in the area person in my life. I need that to stay life where my discipline is really keyed in, I'm doing really good with my disciplines, but disciplined as me, and now I'm judgy. So, my workouts and my Bible time, but it creates I don't really want to stay in this too long. I realized when I made the title Navigating this message that, that in that title Navigating because the two biggest fears in not enough and navigating. I told you two and I still don't. There has been The idea of this passage here... I looked at one disciples said. Again, a pretty familiar Scripture Jesus when he said, &quot;I want to feed all of these they answered, &quot;Where could we get enough bread We're going to stay with that question &quot;Where could we get enough bread in this are my two primary fears in life all in one Bible which runs deep for me. I don't know if life or some kind of deficit-oriented way of I don't know if you ever do little you could sell everything and live underground The fear of running out... I cannot explain to you charged. Ninety-three percent is not 100 percent. the phone died? I would die. It's a fear that runs A lot of times, when I preach too long, it's nothing to say. So then I went and messed around but my heart is in the right place. I collapse when you leave because So, I really, really, really relate to this thing of &quot;Where could we get makes it even worse... &quot;Where could we get enough So, now not only do I not have enough (that's my I need to know where I am, and if I don't who knows where they are. That's where so it really didn't matter, you've always got enough.&quot; Isn't it interesting But if we followed you back into You know, when you get a little older, you your body in the same way that you could. I'm still vital, but... Y'all, I thought I I was like, &quot;Oh no!&quot; For about five minutes, The worst part was I pulled it yawning, not I just yawned, and something popped...just to remind we look at what we don't have and what we need, &quot;No, I'm good. I'm good. I'm Then the other one is despair where you are realize what you do have. So, yes, the disciples he is omniscient, and he was and is and but it does not change the fact that they are that's who I want to speak to today. You are Either of those is scary. Just to be somewhere physically. You know that. I'm talking about mentioned stages of life you've never experienced. could be beyond the chronological. It could a combination, or a sequence of things that So, I don't have enough, and I don't know where to go to get what I need. I don't know where I two biggest nightmares in life, so I decided If you are under the age of 20, you will Not an app called Maps. Not an interactive, I went into the gas station yesterday, and and unfold it like an icebreaker for the Everybody who pulls a muscle when They didn't even have a map at the to? I can't get a map at the gas station. Elijah asked me before he went to college, &quot;How I said, &quot;Son, it was traumatic. Your mom isn't me.&quot; When we first moved to Charlotte, it I would go have appointments with people all mean streets of Weddington, Waxhaw, and Mint meeting I took that I would not end up on the and I'd be on the road, and she would be guiding We just celebrated 21 years of marriage. five if we would have kept having to go that way. The thing about us communicating in this so it all sounded good while she was telling from two years ago. It changed &quot;I would have loved to have been a disciple You wouldn't either. You might eventually have loved it, but not They're in a remote place. They're healing people. It has been three days, and he doesn't and now he pulls them to It's all well and good as long as he's doing the said, &quot;I have compassion for these people. They've me in the original language of the Bible doesn't cleaving to me. They've been staying with been pulling on me. They've been pressing Touch somebody really quickly If you feel crippled in an area of your life, if you feel blind in an area of your life, if you I have some good guidance for you. Stay with I don't think it's a coincidence read something in the Bible about three It's really wonderful to think about how... You he provides.&quot; Have you heard that one? I My life is a trophy of the grace of God, that Where God guides, he provides. But the thing that leaves out if you God guides, he provides&quot;...is that, a lot of times, I know you don't want to because you don't want to admit you're lost. I'm not like that. I would call Holly in a and I was determined to tap into her full to be lost. I'm too scared for that. If you get to the point where you'll say, &quot;Well, I don't like to admit I've never done this don't like to ask somebody that I need them to just aren't hungry enough yet, lost enough yet, You are navigating a &quot;not enough&quot; in your life in Although you have pressed into Jesus, you are Jesus said. &quot;I don't want you to collapse The Bible says that Jesus has compassion. If God Paid off, a nice one, a fast one, a sexy one. If God paid off your house, If God said, &quot;I'm giving you my compassion,&quot; there than the compassion of a Christ who is fully fully God enough to stop a storm; fully walk and they go dancing out; fully God enough He is fully God enough to do all of that and pull his disciples to the side and say, I don't know if there's anybody in here who's was waiting to crush you underneath But we meet a Jesus in Matthew 15 who the Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. but it means that in every area where I lack, the leave me in my lack and turn a deaf ear to me not for a house. That's fine. I've got a car. that he looks on my weakness with compassion, I don't know. I just noticed that this week. I noticed that Jesus said (verse 32), &quot;I the disciples answered the request Jesus made like men often do, like mankind enough bread? There's no DoorDash You know, some people would say Jesus is When you use a GPS, you get but when you follow Christ, he He'll get you there turn by turn, step by He will pick your big behind up and carry But one thing about this Savior. to tell it where you want to end up. That's Jesus. Peter has this boat. Right? They're going all one who is driving, but the one who is driving I don't think you heard what I just said. I'm like sometimes. I'm driving this boat. I'm the one having to make these moves. I'm the ultimately, I don't get to decide where Maybe that brings you great comfort or, starts to mess with you, especially Jesus starts healing people, and he shows no and he pulls the disciples to the side and The disciples answered (verse 33), &quot;Where could feed such a crowd?&quot; I need to slow this down, and &quot;I have compassion for these people.&quot; &quot;Where are we going to get enough bread in It's all about how you see it. The disciples how many times I've been getting ready to preach, and it's like I've done everything you're do in that overpriced education they gave I've got a Scripture, and I've got four research brief that I hired somebody who's better some deficiencies myself. I've got some stories that might be repeatable, tweetable, X-able, I have everything I need except to remember Follow me. The disciples are worried about bread. It might surprise you what Jesus has that they have seven loaves; he has zero. So, they if I could put it that way, than he does. But compassion.&quot; Sometimes when we what we're really lacking is priorities. Sometimes I don't see the situation But if I would see it like Jesus sees it, for what he has called me to do. When I I will always be running low on provision I would really encourage you to put a limit on Some of the &quot;not enough&quot; that you feel is not have; it is because of the act of comparing &quot;Because they have this, and because I have that, Do you see how you have replaced the compassion replace compassion with comparison, when you step When you step outside of what God has given you begin to see things as crowds, not people. You a journey to be enjoyed with Jesus. Sometimes bread when what I really didn't have enough of Is this good to you? It strengthened me, the bread that I don't have. It's not the spending the time chasing the thing that My time is a limited resource, but if I never learn to put God how can I come to him about a need he tried to I'm here to encourage you that It is. I met a lady last weekend. &quot;I listen to your sermons. I love God, but I need &quot;Well, I'll go home and pray about &quot;You need a job? You have a God? I pray that he would open a door for you right now before but I prayed for that. I love how she said do need God and a job. For all of y'all How many can testify? The light They don't really respect that She said, &quot;I love God, but I need When I said &quot;Sleep...&quot; If you 73 or 74, there are going to be But what you don't want to do is let one need let a situation that is not enough turn into an start to believe that God is not enough, and You don't have enough money, but if you don't then you definitely won't get enough sleep. And if you don't get enough sleep, you don't have enough energy, you will not have enough You'll yawn at them and pull a muscle. (I'm going the Devil meant for evil this morning, and I'm &quot;I don't have any friends.&quot; Well, if you according to what you don't have... Jesus compassion.&quot; When you tap into that... has for you and the compassion he has I was just thinking how different this passage would have been... You know, they fed 4,000 people, I think it's amazing that Jesus saw people and it said that they fed 4,000 people. Why did we How many of y'all have heard Why do we always call it that? Like, why too? Well, they didn't at this time. That's it 5,000 where it says 4,000 here? How many You were like, &quot;Four thousand? I thought it You're not going to believe this when I tell So, now you're really judging the disciples, because in Matthew 14, there were and Jesus fed all of them, and A chapter later... I'm not talking about in Matthew 14. What chapter is this? Okay. How &quot;That's not that long&quot;? And how many of all together? They fed 5,000 with 5 loaves. This should be easy. This should be simple. It's was like, &quot;You need to see this.&quot; Every once in just something that's going on in pop culture, just to make sure I'm aware. I She's like, &quot;You need to know a few things today.&quot; Swift attending football games...important things. You've heard of this? I have Girl math. She was like, &quot;Watch this If it's 'buy one get one free,' and I don't &quot;If I spent $38 online at Sephora, but and I buy $20 of mascara so I basically saved money and got the mascara &quot;Why, woman, are you showing me All kinds of stuff. Then Abbey goes, &quot;If I put the money on my it's basically free because I already put the let me teach you some dad math. Until you are I don't really know anything about girl math, I'll get called a sexist or a misogynist or But I didn't come to talk about girl about God math. That's the class I came to This is not a trend; this is the truth. God math is when you have and seven big basketfuls when you're I know something about God math. I don't or boy math or dad math or mom math, Do any of you know anything about Where everybody else walked away and you found out that if it's just you and I want to teach a class about God math, seven loaves. Anytime you have something left that's God math. They fed 4,000 Did you see that? They didn't count the But God doesn't count like people count, and If we were doing my math, and I'm standing at sea is greater than the staff, but if God put me my purpose, then guess what happens? The staff If Moses were here, he would teach this class Come on. I need an assistant teacher, God math. Maybe we could call on and a little, tiny rock, but in the hands of anointed and oiled and raised by God, by faith that big. What, about two inches around? Watch two inches versus nine feet. That's what Or maybe we need to call on Joshua who's standing of Jericho, and all he has is a trumpet to deal a 12-foot-thick wall, you have a problem unless One trumpet can collapse a 12-foot man's math. When you get in man's math, us. They're stronger than us. It's greater who can be against you, even if the whole There's this one story in the Old sends his servant out to check in the &quot;We're in trouble. There are more of &quot;He's not seeing this right.&quot; God is saying You're on the wrong app. You keep pulling up You keep doing your math, but I've got news Watch this. If it's God's map, it's God's math. you don't know what to do or how to do it or what I wanted you to know that if you're where If it's God's map, it's God's math. So, the prophet said, &quot;Open his eyes that he may That's that God math. Yeah, all of us who are bad math says, &quot;There's nothing there but a cloud the the sound of the abundance of rain getting ready I want to have a class called God's to show in the class. It's just one you can write it down. We don't need a whole don't even need but five more minutes. Show them It's not a hashtag; it's a prophecy. It says than the God who knew I would be in this remote only have six more months with my kids. That's He can take six months and accomplish Come out of man's math. Come out of little boy's don't need man's math any longer because God never been in a situation that God called me to Never. Enough is not a feeling. Enough is a place of faith that God is greater. where you never knew you'd be. The disciples could is they were no longer on the shores of Capernaum They were now in a Gentile region, having covenant they belonged to, and Jesus said, What that lets me know is that God and he put in me what I need If I say this to a crowd, then it has a very who are navigating a &quot;not enough&quot; in their it has almost become your name. For some of you, is keeping you stuck in this season. By man's but God's math says that his grace is greater. That's the one word I want in your spirit about As simple as it sounds, if the disciples they would have never asked the question, You don't have to ask about bread So, let's get serious about this now. You're navigating a &quot;not enough&quot; in your life, and before and it wasn't enough. You tried to hold tried to bring the kid back, but it wasn't but it wasn't enough. You tried to bridge it Now you think that you aren't enough. By no, not one. But I love the compassion of The Bible says he will leave the 99 to it doesn't make much sense to leave the greater that the one who starts out with After all, it's just simple math. It's they fed 5,000, and they had 12 baskets left over. When they had 7 loaves, they fed 4,000, Stay with me. This is important. This This is what I wanted you to leave with about navigating in your life right now, about the about the mistakes you cannot redeem in That's man's math. Seven is God's number. complete in Christ. You do not have Your righteousness is not your own. It is by Jesus and given by God. It is shed abroad interesting that when they only had 5 loaves, they they ended up with 7 baskets. The miracle that I prophesy over your situation. I prophesy I prophesy over everybody who didn't get a love looked like. I prophesy over everybody navigate this transitional period of your life. ends as the most. That's God's math. If you feel weak today, that's a good starting weakness comes a strength that is greater. I that is greater and a grace that is greater. You started cast down, but you're ending lifted going forward made whole, because Christ has Less bread to begin with, &quot;Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs if you have weakness, if you have space, God can &quot;If any of you lacks wisdom, you should He's able. Ask him. &quot;God, I need somebody in my But as you are asking him make sure you thank him for what you already have. I want to sing an old song. Marvelous grace of our loving Lord, Yonder on Calvary's mount outpoured, This is the God math: &quot;There where the blood of is greater than any sin you would Man math? You can keep the girl I want the God math where one drop of his Look! There is flowing a crimson tide, Grace, grace, God's grace, that will pardon and cleanse within; God's grace, [Song] God has a grace for your situation lift your hands to heaven, and receive it. [Song] I want to invite somebody to receive the grace of for you. A sinner in need of a Savior...this a Father...this message was for you. A backslider He leaves the 99, and I don't know He sees people, not crowds. That grace is I'm going to lead you in a prayer right now who are ready today to put your faith in Jesus I'm going to pray a line, and magical prayer. It's an opportunity If you confess with your mouth that Jesus raised him from the dead, you will be salvation. Harden not your hearts. Today from your heart and put your faith in Jesus Heavenly Father, I am a sinner in need of a the Son of God and the Savior of the world. I believe he died that I would be I receive this new life. This is my new beginning. On the count of three, shoot your two, three. Raise your hand right hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church can know when we go live and post new content what spoke to you today where you're watching you'd like to support the ministry financially continue reaching people around the world for