-Hi, I'm Rick Steves. I've spent the last 30 years exploring Europe and now it's time the way millions of people are. Yep, we're on a cruise ship, and we're sailing Welcome aboard. Cruising is really popular In this special, I'd like to and pros and cons Sailing from Barcelona to Athens I'll toggle to exciting days on shore, nearly each day Massive cruise ships serve and a floating hotel. From our ship, we'll visit of the Mediterranean and venture inland to We'll savor and some lazy time We'll learn how to make the most avoiding lines, while exercising independence to get the most out Along with the efficiencies we'll show the downsides -- the inevitable congestion that comes with mass tourism. And as we sail we'll enjoy our time a virtual playground at sea. The Mediterranean Sea is bounded Europe, and the Middle East. The typical cruise itinerary While most cruises focus we'll do a little of both. Stopping in Barcelona, La Spezia for Florence, Naples, Malta, Athens, Mykonos, and Santorini. I'm not here to promote For some people, And for others it's not. Cruising can be economical, room, and meals all included It can be ideal for those who for their vacation, and it can also be for independent types who want each day. While there may be a lot the reason I cruise is to experience The Mediterranean world and richly rewards The cultural variety and it shows itself and a distinctive love of life. For thousands of years, this was the center Exploring the Mediterranean, you'll enjoy the sweep from ancient treasures of the Renaissance And it's just flat-out No wonder the rich and fabulous have built since ancient times. The cruiser's challenge how to best experience Your goal: of your vacation time enjoy the best experiences, and have fun. Before we sight-see the greatest let's get an overview Ships can be huge. Ours has about 3,000 passengers scrambling to keep everyone Is it good travel? The way I see it, a third of them a floating alternative A third of them just checking things and a third of them well-prepared and eager as soon as that gangway Cruising originated as it was expensive and formal. The joke was it was for and nearly dead.&quot; But, as ships get bigger able to offer comforts cruising has changed Today, it's younger, and more affordable. Most Mediterranean cruises or Barcelona. Wherever you start, This is your first peek of the cruise industry. It's a big logistical challenge and their bags into their Pack a little extra patience and leave yourself for the red tape Once on board, I do one thing move in thoroughly. Staterooms, while thoughtfully so make things shipshape. If you use all and are constantly on guard there's plenty of room. I rarely use drawers but this is my home You just move in once, move in fully, and establish On a cruise, you can get away I bring more clothes than usual. How dressy you need to be is a matter of which and your personal style. As cruising has become it's also become more casual. This is as dressy as I get. Most people pack smart casual for evenings, leisure wear for poolside and practical travel clothing Okay, I've moved in We'll be in the French Riviera We're settling into the rhythm sail at night and explore By the way, have some fun I'm standing near the front -- The back? It's the stern. Left: port, And remember, it's a &quot;ship.&quot; For me, just &quot;being at sea&quot; After our first departure, I find myself thinking as a sight in itself. Make a point on departure day to get to know Take advantage of the signage Modern ships are This ship has 1,500 staterooms gathered around where you'll find places to Explore the ship on The library The gym comes You'll discover places -- that others may miss. In this floating resort, the top deck -- is the equivalent of the beach. When it comes to fun-in-the-sun, poolside seems to be But if you crave this ship has actual grass. I don't know what happened but a little bocce ball Each morning, the deck eight laps and it's a mile. Being confined on a ship, I make a pact: I shall avoid the elevators They say the average cruise but not me. Cruising can work well and for groups Each person can pick and choose both on land and at sea, and still get together And cruising also works or who are less active -- the entire ship is as accessible Along with the advantages, Many would say it can insulate You're going to and seeing them at the same time with thousands That's just the nature Those who don't make a concerted may come home with memories and lots of wasted time. Cruise ships drop large numbers at the same time. Small ports when the ship's in port, even worse when several ships And then, the port suddenly becomes less something cruisers because they're back on the ship Many cruisers are not If you are, and come back late as you can. Doing this, and more unforgettable moments. With each port, you've got You can take and be on their time table, or you can hire a private guide. You can use a guidebook or you can just hang out There's no right or wrong -- it depends on your mood Many cruise travelers invest in the cruise line's Excursions can be fully guided, or just providing transportation While pricey, they can also be to cover those must-see And there's usually designed for people But as these tours and many buses hit you'll often be right If you're not purchasing the you've got an array Mediterranean ports as springboards In most port terminals, you'll offering essentially the same for a fraction of the cost. Another option: It's a comfort with a warm, personal welcome. Legions of private guides serving cruisers directly. You can book a guide four people costs about the same as four people And with a guide, you get you're sure to know and you enjoy the freedom And you can simply be You'll find helpful And, most ports are Independent types and those can use a guidebook. There are handy guidebooks designed to help you get the And, taking advantage of apps featuring self-guided walks empowers with plenty of In many big cities, hop-on, hop-off companies offer economic and efficient transportation. Buses meet the cruise ships and offer big loop tours letting you hop off and on and dropping you And finally, You have the option Anyone can simply walk or catch and just delight shopping, browsing, or soaking up some sun [ Laughter ] Because ships sail at night, you rarely enjoy or the romance Having said that, on the ship -- and thinking about So, tomorrow, The cruise line sells a for every port. Early on, it's good to review decide which tours -- and book them. The excursion desk is dedicated and selling the many For the eager students, some ships offer to preview the next day's and to promote their tours. that you enjoy every port of -Arriving at our first port, it's clear why France's Riviera Cruise ships stop in one Nice... Monaco... or Villefranche. Each is a delight to explore, a short ride apart by train -- and today, we'll see them all. Villefranche but it doesn't have a dock So, we're dropping the hook in a small boat Be sure you understand the last tender shuttles Today, it's 4:30. The French Riviera lends I love Villefranche, but to be sure we don't we'll enjoy this port While the ship's is designed to sell the tourist offices on shore designed to help Okay, and a train schedule -- there's one leaving Trains along the Riviera And towns here are Today we'll enjoy a couple hours and then run out the clock We're starting in Nice The well-organized traveler during an eight-hour stop. Using a good guidebook exploring the French Riviera It's fun and economical to in the bigger cities. Nice has a single tramline that glides from right to the old center. This is pure France. As I like to say, Nice is nice, and the market is thriving. Une socca, s'il vous plait. Here, you can savor of this southeastern corner -Beautiful. is delicious hot off and just right -Thank you very much. -Thank you. Mediterranean towns make their and Nice's Promenade des Anglais While I could rent a bike, and some beach time I'll be on the train to Monaco in about an hour, but right now? Ohh, yeah. Back on the train, my baguette avec fromage, In half an hour, It's a tiny country Monaco is dominated and its harbor is filled of massively wealthy tycoons. The city is small enough to all of its main sights I have time for two stops: imagine all the fortunes won mostly lost -- and the cute little We're here just in time for [ Band playing ] And a visit to the palace is Riding the train back it's comforting The sleepy town of Villefranche The beach is inviting. And the harbor-front to enjoy a final drink We've got 45 minutes before the There's no way we're going and that means plenty of time We've caught the last tender. Security on board and it's efficiently organized. Because everyone with their identity cards, at any given moment, the staff knows exactly and who's still on shore. With everyone back on board, and sail away. This is one of the pleasures Until you get to the next port, you're free to relax You can read a book on deck, head to the spa, exercise, or enjoy one of the I'm into the rhythm now. After a full day of sightseeing, stowed my wallet in the room, and I'm looking forward and an evening at sea. By the way, even with I'm impressed by If you want quiet, Do you have kids? -One son. How old is he? -See, my son is 30. -Can you believe you've got -No way. -If you're in the mood you can enjoy with friends And if you want more action, [ Lively music plays ] It seems any excuse for a party Full moon tonight -- yep, it's the full moon party. One thing I like about cruising is how easy it is People who are young at heart. Many major cruise destinations and far from the sea. For example, Florence. Our ship docks in La Spezia, by bus or train. Like in many cruise ports, shipping containers and cranes. And from this springboard, are up and out early Like thousands of today we're heading and most of us have the same Michelangelo's David Taking the cruise line's tour, I know I'll get a quick blitz of The tour includes reservations a professional guide, and the assurance that we'll make it Florence is one of those places and almost everybody wants You won't be alone. While those without reservations will waste lots of precious time with a tour, certain to see the glories Brunelleschi's Botticelli's Birth of Venus... and Michelangelo's David. As we make our way toward Rome, let's consider how to stay while on the ship. Cruise ships are businesses. They need to make money, and there's not much profit So they need to make more money and from extras you buy things like gambling, shopping, and alcohol. As smart consumers, it's important It's possible, technically, with no extra expenses on board, but extras are enticing. They're cleverly sold, and your purchases It's a cashless world Along with getting you your handy ID card Onboard, there's lots of temptations, and purchases feel painless -- until you check out and get the Our next port serves Rome, Like for Florence, in an industrial Here, in Civitavecchia, the cruise line provides to the end of the port from where we sort through In this case, most independent Within an hour, we're in Rome. While Rome may be our cruise schedule You'll need to be smart Do it with a thoughtful plan -- or a guided tour Rome has two main The ancient city includes the Forum with the magnificence even in its ruins, and the glorious Pantheon. Amazingly preserved, of the splendor of ancient Rome And across the Tiber River with the towering the exhilarating treasures and Michelangelo's -Welcome to the tour. We're going to head down the So, everyone, follow me. for a behind-the-scenes tour Modern cruise ships and technical marvels. We start on the bridge, enjoy the ultimate vantage point and state-of-the-art to be sure we're on track. In the control room, is like making its own fresh water monitoring its vast power, and making sure Passing through the living we're reminded that live in a parallel world under the care-free vacation -All the fruit that we have from Poland, and from Spain. -The officer in charge of the explains how the produce necessary to feed thousands of people And we finish our tour and well-coordinated Our next stop is Naples. I love coming into port. If you're up early, sunrise over Mount Vesuvius. And here comes one of Europe's yet rewarding cities. Here in Naples, the cruise Along with the conventional you'll find budget alternatives In ports like Naples, Stepping through you may find yourself scrum of cabbies and tour guides While we could make a deal for our sightseeing needs, I've made arrangements If you're leaving the ship remember: cruise ports attract people looking to over-charge naive tourists Look for fixed Also, be smart I leave my passport on the ship. -Buongiorno! Using my guidebook, I've booked In moments, we're zipping and heading for a quick While pricey for a solo we're beating the crowds and I've got the luxury here at one of Europe's It's amazing to think was a thriving Roman city and then, in AD 79, and the city was buried The excavations give us a look like none other. With my driver and guide, By mid-day, free to see things far This old quarry It's been filled with a sight I bet no one But it's on my list The quarry is filled with bones I learned that Neapolitans would actually build it a little house, and count on the skull's soul for them in times of need. I love exploring the characteristic and the most crazy Just wandering through is a cultural carnival. For me, the back streets offer the gritty reality Now within easy striking I say goodbye to our guide in the city famous The food on the ship is good the cuisine of whatever port we're visiting. So, for lunch, rather than fast food choose authentic local food And here in Naples, Each country has its quick It's tapas in Spain. My favorite Barcelona tapas you just grab what looks good and then count the toothpicks to figure out how much you owe. In France, I love a good What better lunch in Nice? In Greece, a souvlaki pita And in Istanbul, it's fresh fish [ Conversation This is Istanbul fast food. Tonight, as we sail for Malta, the grand foyer for the cruise ritual -Your captain, Captain [indistinct], [ Cheers and applause ] -That's followed by a little bit -[ Singing indistinctly ] -And, as the night wears on, for everyone to literally dance wearing headphones, you can select your favorite at the silent disco. It's a surreal experience by the graceful mermaid. [ Cheers and applause ] [ Cheers and applause ] The captain advised being up to the Grand Harbor of Malta. Clearly, this port some serious fortifications. Our ship just squeezes and in moments, ready for a busy day Malta is a tiny set between Sicily and Africa. With a culture enriched by it's a strategically with an extraordinary history. The capital city of Valletta is a stony monument And the dramatic view of the heavily fortified harbor strategic importance Of the many cultures perhaps most obvious Malta spent 150 years While it gained its independence Malta retains English-style pubs and food, and red phone booths. If this feels like it's because it was the capital of the Knights of St. John, also known as Malta's stout walls -- existing limestone cliffs -- of 40,000 Ottoman sailors. After the Turkish threat passed, the city was ornamented including characteristic called gallarija. As you stroll, and nostalgic patina of age A short drive through Malta's takes us to the fisherman's A favorite with cruise it's home to a fleet of typical While Marsaxlokk has a fine main the action is along especially during when it's all about fish. Tradition says that goes back eight centuries to when Malta These colorful boats pop seeming to celebrate yet of the Mediterranean world. When the distance between ports is longer than the ship spends You know, one of about a Mediterranean cruise sleep in, leisurely brunch, just hang out by the pool. For activities on board, with a busy schedule lands on your bed. Cruise lines work hard to make They arrange something poolside is ground zero Every day is filled with like dance classes. And there are plenty of other on deck. Different cruise lines Smaller ships generally and are able Of the big ship options, you have a range When shopping for a cruise, there are two the itinerary and the character It's your choice: young and trendy, older It's pretty obvious which market's being targeted and the general style you'll be Your cruise price will also vary according to your choice Like the vast majority I'm staying in On the newer ships, most rooms I enjoy the fresh air, and quiet moments If money's no concern, you have some pretty fancy Rooms cost more or less location, Italy juts 600 miles It divides the sea from a cruise itinerary point of view into western ports We're sailing east, into the Greece's Aegean Sea Next up: Athens. The port of Athens is Piraeus, another industrial springboard While Athens for the independent traveler, many opt for Cruise lines excel Before leaving the ship, tourists meet in the theater, get their tour group number, are escorted and meet the guide. Within minutes, as he narrates the ride into about the leading city the home of Socrates and Plato. Today, Athens is of four million people. But, in the 19th century, huddled at the base That old town is today's called the Plaka, with its fun eateries, and shops filled Next to the modern markets you find the ancient with one of the best from ancient Greece -- the Temple of Hephaestus. But everyone's got their sights Our group converges and everyone clamors While cruisers are unavoidably guides do a good job of managing each morning. Once on top, tourists marvel as guides do their best And from the summit all are rewarded of sprawling Athens. After each day of sightseeing, back at the ship, passengers A cool cloth and they're back home Cruise lines employ a ratio of about one worker A typical crew comes from dozens A fun and extra dimension is getting to interact whose cultures you know [ Cheering ] Crew members work very hard, a week for months from their homes While they don't make much money from a First World they make a solid living and are able to help Their base pay is only a part and much of their income Tipping on the ship Most cruise lines use with a healthy gratuity that generously covers Of course, you can adjust it and you're welcome for particular crew members Our last two stops in the Aegean Sea. The Isle of Mykonos comes with a classic While a small island it's a standard stop There's a pier so most ships drop the hook and shuttle If visiting by cruise ship, it's We caught the first tender -- beat the crowds It's easy to enjoy Mykonos Town with no planning, no tour, This is a stop which lends just lazing on the beach, and browsing the shops. It's the epitome a busy breakwater, fine little While tourism dominates Mykonos still has thickly layered blue trim, Back lanes offer tranquility As in many Greek island towns, centuries ago harnessed the steady wind, grinding grain Five mills still stand, to catch the prevailing breeze. A tidy embankment is so pretty Wealthy shipping merchants of fine mansions balconies that seem to rise Today, these mansions have been for tourists enjoying fresh fish Mykonos' status was as a fashionable and it retains These days, tacky trinket stalls with top-end fashion boutiques. Prices are high, and, in season, the island is crammed But, even with four ships there seems to be There's a range of beaches on The most trendy is Paradise, one of the ultimate Presided over by hotels that run the Paradise action While the beach becomes the deejay is busy all day as from around the world As is standard around here, beaches rent comfortable lounge Just plop onto whatever appeals. Don't worry, the If you prefer a quieter scene, the more remote beaches While extremely arid, of Mykonos -- complete with and staggering views -- is Agios Sostis, an old at the north end of the island, has none of the thumping It offers little beyond turquoise water, and tranquility. And, for many, it's their Along with its beaches, Mykonos offers a major It's on an uninhabited a 30-minute shuttle boat The island of Delos was one in the ancient Greek world... ...with temples honoring of the twin gods Centuries before Christ, Delos attracted pilgrims Delos was important in first as a religious site, then as the treasury that was sort of the &quot;Fort Knox&quot; and later, during Roman times, this was one of the busiest in the entire Delos ranked right up there with Survey the remains foundations of shops and hillsides littered The iconic row still heralds the importance This was one of the Aegean Imagine Delos in its heyday -- a booming center of trade: with 3,000 shops where you dazzling mansions with colonnaded There were fine mosaics -- like this one of the Culture thrived here, enough to keep this theater -- I cap my visit by climbing My reward: one of the great king-of-the-mountain As you observe the chain dramatically swirling you can understand that these Cycladic Islands got their name from the way around this oh-so-important Back on the ship, we set sail By the nature of a cruise Food is unlimited There's a constant risk and for some cruisers, to see if you can eat five meals when you get to the port. Traditionally, where cruisers have with the same table mates, and a chance to But that's changing and more flexibility. Now there are more options: cafes, snack bars, and a burger grill poolside. The standby with a huge available at almost any hour. There's a vast selection hot foods, salads, fruit... and desserts. And ships also offer specialty restaurants. These are more formal, and come with a surcharge. If you don't mind they can be a romantic Many cruise lines still have usually on the day at sea. While this is becoming the personality of the ship On our ship, the dress code rather than &quot;formal.&quot; If you don't want to dress up, just steer clear But for many people, to put on a suit and tie When you do that, a romantic is particularly memorable. I enjoy the scenic arrivals Being on the top deck as you gives you Approaching an exotic like Santorini -- as the moon sets and the sun rises, just kissing the lip is worth getting up for. Santorini is a dramatic the rim of a volcanic crater Once a complete island it was a volcano that -- blew its top, creating a caldera -- this flooded crater. Today, inviting seem to crowd as if jostling Because Santorini's pier giant cruise ships drop anchor in on small shuttle boats. Individuals go to where they can ride a donkey or hop a cable car to the scenic Those paying for the cruise get off the ship first, and head where buses and guides await. Considering the crush and the scattered array investing in a bus tour can be a good value. Within minutes, you'll be into the island as Santorini is arid, We're here in early September, and they haven't But grapes on Santorini and make the island's As they have since vintners shape the vines in hopes that they'll collect The Santorini fruit of the vine Many excursions include to taste the local wine. Sure, this stop is designed and might not be Still, the wine's good and Cruise line excursions -Those two The Kameni Islands are actually -...scenic views from the bus, of getting smoothly And tour groups are sure to have Oia is the postcard image This idyllic ensemble and characteristic domes over a steep slope Viewpoints here are some of in the Greek Seas as tourists Artists fall in love Honeymooners find the B&amp;B and savor breakfast And at the quiet end of town, the old windmill reminds all of To get the absolute most out I've booked half a day Of Santorini's many beaches, The black sand is a reminder of Typical of Greek island it's lined with and a strip And with Dimitris, I know These salads look delicious. -Well, we have here a Greek salad and a Santorini salad. The difference that we use the local tomatoes, the local cucumbers, we use the goat cheese, and we add the capers See, you can eat them. We got some sardines here, And on the other side, we've got also served with salad, the -This is a healthy diet. -We bid our guide goodbye to enjoy our last couple Santorini's main town. Fira is the island's commercial Its main street -- whenever there's seems like little more than and restaurants -- Enjoying the island and then taking a short break filled with happy travelers is a reminder that, you can exercise some great travel moments. Keeping my eye on the clock, I hop the cable car back where our ship's shuttle, Most cruisers get nervous and head back earlier I find the ports are least and enjoyable The last tender isn't leaving That's plenty of time A cruise can be a pre-packaged travel cliche, or a springboard Whether you took or hopped a donkey, you'll take home A cruise allows you to explore in a way that suits you best. Whether that's touring crossing off some of those &quot;must see&quot; highlights or just relaxing on As with travel in general, such as these can be yours and then match them with Our cruise is nearing its end, and I'm savoring While we've enjoyed a quick look at a selection there are plenty more. We'll be back in the real world There are many ways For a lot of people, especially if you know how can be a practical mix of I hope you've enjoyed I'm Rick Steves. Until next time,