(mom sobbing) - What? - It's smiling at me. (kids screaming) (mom and kids screaming) - Okay? Beautiful. (family cheering) - [Babish] Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Binging with Babish, where this week we're taking a look at Chinese turkey, aka Peking duck. Something that I've always and something that relies heavily on the Chinese five-spice mixture that of cinnamon, clove, star anise, fennel seed, and sichuan peppercorn. You can buy this stuff pre-ground, but as usual, with most dried spices, it's going to benefit from being So that's just what we're gonna do. We're going to toast these in Take out the cinnamon sticks Dump everything into our This is not used for grinding coffee, and grind to a fine powder. Now you can keep this in your spice rack and it will taste worlds better than any of the pre-ground stuff. Next up, a marinade for which is pretty much just hoisin sauce. In a medium bowl, combine two tablespoons of honey, a small knob of freshly grated ginger and a single clove of Two teaspoons of seasoned rice vinegar, two teaspoons of sesame seed oil. If this sauce gets too thin, you can add corn starch to thicken, but not until after we've that is a tablespoon two tablespoons of smooth peanut butter, a few solid pinches of a good twist of freshly ground pepper, and maybe two tablespoons of brown sugar. Whisk to combine and, again, Now, for the faint of heart, because we've got a into whose cavity we're maybe half of the hoisin sauce, and then we're going to using a bamboo skewer. As you can see, I'm sort around the skewer for each stitch. Now, for what was certainly I am fitting the tip of with the finger of a rubber like a very, very shoving to the neck skin of the duck and cranking the compressor on,. inflating the duck and separating which is going to allow and give us crispier browner skin. Next up, we need to (indistinct) the duck in a mixture of about four cups of water, maybe a quarter cup of soy sauce, and a few of our whole Bring to a boil, carefully and ladle across the skin until it starts to take and the skin tightens up considerably. Now ideally, you want this guy to rest in the fridge uncovered for at least But if you're like me and you had the idea for this episode the day before it airs, we need a shortcut. And a very effective is with a hairdryer. It's also an opportunity to that the butcher might've missed. Now it's time to roast for one to one and a half hours. While the bird roasts, it's time to make some We're going to add two thirds to 10 ounces of plain all-purpose flour. Mix until a shaggy dough forms turnout onto a floured worktop and knead until smooth and supple. Roll into a two inch log each of which we're then going to divide again in half and keeping the other until we're ready to use them. Roll out to about a three inch round both pieces on a well and then brush one side Very, very light film of sesame seed oil. Sandwich the two together and roll out to a seven which kind of like a fresh tortilla. We're going to toast in a dry pan until light brown spots form. Once all the pancakes are done, it's time to retrieve our duck. Now, this guy did not as a traditional Peking duck because it had not been but the skin is still super crisp and the meat is nice and juicy and the head smiling as ever. Now it's time to simply carve the duck, remove the wings and legs, into about half inch slices. You'll have to forgive my haste, but this is the first and my whole apartment has been smelling like duck and spices for hours now. Fill up a pancake with duck, thinly sliced cucumber and scallions, and then top with a bit of Now again, air drying the duck is going to give you darker But as far as shortcuts - [Narrator] He brought for the feast, and he, carved the roast beast. - What do you say we I'm gonna start by making a stuffing. I have some apple sage pork sausage here that I'm gonna bust up and brown down, AKA break it up into little tiny pieces, place in a non-stick skillet and cook to a lovely golden brown. We're not gonna worry because it's a non-stick pan Instead, we're just gonna I've got some red onion We're just gonna sweat these until they are soft and translucent. See how we can toss 'em in the air to try and impress our internet audience. And now it's time to address the figurative meat of I'm gonna go with these Not only are they gonna have but all that extra exterior surface area is gonna help them retain their shape. Now it's time to mix it all together, and I am not repeating mistakes of your. I have an appropriately And into this, we're dumping our aromatics, our sausage, and maybe a cup and a And then because the looked pretty red, I'm going to try and up the red content with some cranberries. By now, I'm sure you're wondering Well, I submit that it is a turkey, and obviously it's a cartoon animal, but it's got legs, So I'm thinking that by de-boning the majority of the turkey, but leaving the wings and legs intact and then making a roulade we'll at least have a So as you can see, on one side of the turkey, I'm making shallow cuts around the carcass trying to remove as much meat as possible until I hit the breastbone. Then I'm gonna repeat on the other side, again, stopping right and then being very careful because there's no meat between the breast bone and the skin. And it's important not because it's gonna be Just keep making careful shallow cuts until you have emancipated the carcass. And right here you've to make stock for gravy. There's a ton of cartilage, meat and bone. And while I'm leaving the I'm going to remove the thigh bone. To do that, you need to cut find the joints, warm your and there you go. Sometimes it helps to scrape down the side of the bone like this so you can find the joint more easily. Then once I've got the second I'm going to repeat for I know I'm not being terribly thorough, so go check out Chef John's video for how to de-bone a whole turkey. The last step we're gonna do is place some diagonal cuts on the breasts and unfold them up toward the neck so we have a bit more And if your meat's looking I'm gonna go ahead and with a meat mallet or a fry pan, and then it's time to stuff. And most importantly, remember with kosher salt and Remove the stuffing and Make sure it is coated before piling in the or you might end up with a And after all this work and that would be a real shame. So now we're gonna fold like big meaty French doors, and then it's time to start tying. Place butcher knots or slip knots or whatever (beep) knot at one inch intervals up tying around the thighs because we want them closer to the body just so they cook a Then I'm gonna tie the snip off the excess twine, season the exterior and freshly crown pepper. I don't wanna bland bite in this bird. And then I'm gonna hit the whole thing with a little bit of vegetable oil. This is gonna help the since this tom is gonna than a traditional turkey and that's how heat works. But much like a spatchcocked turkey, I'm going to tuck the wing and wrap the ends of the This is just gonna help And look at that. It kinda looks like the roast beast. And now we gotta do the roasting part at 450 degrees for 15 minutes, and then turning the temperature and roasting for an additional until the thickest part of Now we're just gonna remove It's kind of a two man job here. I wish I had a little bit of help. Oh my god, you guys. Look who it is. It's Rashid. He came all the way downtown just to help me get the So with our two tongs working as one, we're going to put this on a cooling rack for about 30 minutes. Thanks for helping me out, Rashid. I miss knowing that you are sleeping just down the hall for me. Anyway, like I said, 30 minutes, we're letting this guy rest. We want those meat fibers to relax and for the internal Then for the first time in a long time, we are resurrecting the cross section. And what a cross section it is. It's like a whole Thanksgiving dinner. And now little (indistinct) all that's left to do is I'm not sure what that was an We're hitting this guy that we made from the stock If you wanna see how to make turkey stock, check out the link in the upper and we got ourselves an obvious clean plate club member here. Juicy meat, crisp skin, and holiday cheer all in one rolled up package. Hey guys, as we approach the holidays, our dietary requirements are elevated to dangerous levels, prompting many hosts with ornate platters of These spreads might seem but as you'll discover, that you can mess up charcuterie except to call it charcuterie, which throngs of angry internet commenters will be quick to remind Let's get down to basics. (upbeat music) (gentle music) All right, folks, so and some of their Over here, we have Parmesan. Y'all know my man, Parmesan. Salty, sweet, waxy, and Then down below we have what I think is the French cousin It's cool-looking, sweet, Then over here we are headed to Spain with a little bit of manchego, a firm sharp and somewhat sour cheese and perfect for pairing with cured meat. Then we have a hunk of Robiola or Brie's cousin that This stuff smells like slow death, but has a surprisingly The next up everybody's most This is a soft ripened goat cheese, so it's a little creamier than your average Chevre. Then on the opposite end we have an aged goat gouda. This little guy is 18 months old and has lost the distinct goat flavor in favor of sweeter and nuttier overtones. Then right behind it, we have the more recognizable which given its age would But this is a double cream gouda, so you can actually see how It's very sweet and nutty, so it goes really well with Then next door, we've got my favorite form the goat cheese can take, Midnight Moon, a six-month old goat cheese that is sweet, buttery, So you're gonna get a little bit of crunch throughout its soft texture. Moving on over here, we've got You guys have probably had this before, but it's my cameraman's favorite, so we had to get it. It is sharp, firm, but slightly creamy and goes great with damn near anything. Now over here, we have what's pretty Mount Tam by Cowgirl Creamery, an incredibly soft, buttery, luxurious, melt in your mouth triple cream cheese that even Brie haters will love. Speaking of cheeses that people will love despite normally having an aversion to said cheeses, whatever. Over here we have something a milder, sweeter, creamier version of its moldy Italian, French And then lastly, something a Sorry, ricotta. Sweet, creamy, mild, It's got just as much a as it does in your So this is obviously a of the endless cheese options out there, but hopefully it paints a picture of some of the basic genres and gives you a few ideas for Next up, someone better call Arby's 'cause it appears as and way, way better ones too. Upfront, we've got some hard cured stuff like this, peppercorn soppressata, which is gonna have a lot of and a little bit of heat Of course, you're gonna wanna and virtually everything else paper thin. But some things you just like this fennel salami, which is likely gonna be a little less funky. But bear in mind, cured meat flavors are depending on their producer, region, and about a billion other factors. Over here though, we've which based off its color alone is probably gonna be more spice forward with a bit of smoke and aged funk. For either of these joints, you're gonna wanna take off the casing. Yes, it is perfectly edible, but it has a texture that's of dried out pig intestine. It's really chewy, and it's just gonna be to peel it off like so. Then once you've got the casing off, go ahead and slice off a to show your guests, &quot;Yes, it's okay.&quot; Cut a piece off. Eat it. That's what this is here for.&quot; Don't ask me why, but a little encouragement like that. Now we're gonna head back in time to before we slice up that salami, weird, and talk about the Over here we've got a classic (clears throat) Sorry, I don't know why that keeps happening. Prosciutto San Daniele crudo flavors are contrasted which is the same cut but simply cooked. Then over yonder, we have my favorite thing in the world, mortadella, or bologna for grownups. It is fatty, salty, porky, and thanks to the inclusion Anyway, it's really, really Then next to that, we have my other favorite This is prosciutto that has been smoked. So in addition to all that it has smoke. So beyond cured and there's a whole world all different kinds of ways that you can bring tasty But even all these studs need a wingman, and here to fill that role are all these delicious accoutrement. Starting on the far right, fried in olive oil. These are way crunchier and more flavorful than regular almonds and Then we've got these known as cornichons. And they're delicious. Put one in your mouth, see what happens. And then we come to the matter of olives. I like nicoise olives, which have a more savory than regular... Oh, oh oh. Be sure you check these If like me, you're not sometimes you forget. Let's try another one of these here. And careful. Much better. And then flanking the Nicoise, we have our Grocer's Choice mixed olives, which, you know, are nice to have. Then over on the nutty side of things, we have some smoked almonds. These are gonna come in handy imposing cheeses that need to remind your guests Then back here, we've packed with oil and herbs. These are great on their own, but go even better with a Then heading back around clockwise, we've got some orange marmalade here. It's very bitter and bright and it's one of a million ways that you can introduce fruit onto your board of meaty cheesy delights. It's gonna go really nicely with Brie or goat cheese or Taleggio. Then we have a condiment at all tables alongside salt and pepper, caramelized onion jam. You can make this yourself, but it's perfectly good out of the jar. As is its naper over here, a Not all this stuff is gonna so go to your grocer and mix and match. Like, I hadn't seen this before, some grilled (indistinct) onions. They had some, so I bought It is the meat and cheese And lastly, I know this is pretty hipster, but we have some spicy honey. There's a reason that this stuff has caught on over the past few years. It is delicious and it's gonna be especially maybe with a few of those Marcona almonds if we're feeling frisky. And then I almost forgot This will go really nice with any of the sweet creamy cheeses. There you have it. We got our wingman. Now who's driving? The vehicles that will be driving our taste buds to flavor town are usually gonna be We generally don't want I'm going with a simply sliced baguette and some salted crackers. We've got some high quality and we don't want them Rosemary, four cheese, Asiago, Anyway, it's time for the big payoff laying out our cheese You don't have to go into this with too much rhyme or reason. I'm just gonna sort of localize different meats and cheeses by their varying levels I'm putting the sweet So we've got some ricotta I've got Parmesan, pickles, Some artichoke hearts near the Parmesan 'cause I think that's Smoked almonds by the Midnight right near the artichoke carts. The triple cream up front with a healthy scoop of And then let's fill in the gaps with things that are probably Nuts, fruits, and olives. And there you have it, one hell of a meat and cheese board. You don't have to be culturally You don't have to be a city You've just got to experiment. Try some new things and see what you like and I guarantee your guests - I told them your candy was - Hey, John, do we know that lady? - Maybe? Isn't she the woman who lives below you and has sex really loud? - Oh, right. I'll do it just this once, but you can't tell anybody. - Yes, yes, please just give it to me. - [Both] Yeah, that's her. (crowd laughing) - [Babish] Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Binging with Babish. For this week, I forgot to record my sort of walk-on introduction thing, so we're gonna recycle this Let's take a look at these oxtails. Perfect. And now we can start making which I always imagined as a chewy caramel covered in chocolate. So in a medium saucepan, we are combining 60 grams of water, 155 grams of light corn syrup and 400 grams of granulated sugar, which we're gonna place stirring minimally with every intention of bringing up to 320 degrees Fahrenheit. Once 320 has reached, and start streaming in a 230 grams of butter melted adding a little bit at a And then once everything's added, we're gonna return the and cook until we get it back up to 240 to 245 degrees Fahrenheit. The softball stage. 240 if you want a softer caramel. 245 if you want a chewier caramel. Then we're adding just a and a whole lot of dashes of kosher salt. I mean, salted caramel, Whisk to combine and then we're pouring it into a prepared baking dish of some kind. I've got a square one here that has both been liberally and lined with parchment paper. Once poured, it must be cooled completely. I'm talking at least six hours. Only then can we even consider turning out and cutting into our desired shapes. I'm ending both sides of with non-stick spray set to receive set shapes. And I had just enough that has a removable We're going to invert onto a greasy surface, remove the plate and parchment paper, and then we can begin scoring and cutting, a supposedly precise process After greasing up my knife, I carefully measured and scored But once I got down to I just kind of eyeballed it. This is homemade candy. After all, it should look So once everybody has been cut into cubes, it's time to coat them in chocolate, which means we must tangle of all great British tempering the act of melting, and then re-crystallizing chocolate so that it holds its We're gonna start by chopping up a whole mess of dark chocolate, which we're gonna place which we're then gonna place over a pot of not quite simmering water. The objective here is to simply melt the Stir constantly, make sure that your water does not boil, and bring it up to a temperature of about 110 to 120 degrees Fahrenheit. Then we're gonna take it That is we're gonna add a lesser amount of very finely chopped unmelted chocolate. This is both gonna cool and encourage it to re crystallize. Effectively what we're doing and then adding some unmelted chocolate to try and help it remember and then stirring it vigorously and constantly and exhaustively until it hits 86 degrees Fahrenheit. This might take like 45 minutes, so a way to cool off your is to transfer it to a This doesn't retain as much heat as glass and it's gonna cool If even after all this, you can add more seed chocolate, which is both gonna cool it further and encourage crystallization. But if that seed chocolate doesn't melt, you might need to return for just a few seconds. And I really mean just a few seconds, just enough to melt the seed chocolate. At this point, you don't want things to go otherwise you're starting from scratch. Now to show you how in this process, I'm going to show you As you can see, I've got my chocolate down to about 91 degrees Fahrenheit, so I'm going to perform a temper test, dipping a thin spatula in the chocolate and letting it set for two minutes. And as you shall see in it's pretty set, but it's dull. But this whole time, I've been agitating and So when I dip the tester in once more, letting it set for another two minutes, you'll see the difference The chocolate is shiny and pretty and ready to coat our caramels, which we're gonna painstakingly dip into the chocolate one at a time. The easiest option is because that's gonna Just make sure each caramel is thoroughly coated in chocolate and place it on a prepared parchment paper set in a rimmed baking sheet, trying to shake off as much so you don't have a foot on Then while these guys are still wet, we gotta finish 'em off with I'm pretty sure not salting your caramel is a class three It was after the 20th and started to use some fondue forks. World renowned for being able to contend with molten chocolate. Now we're just gonna rinse and repeat with the remaining caramels, heating the chocolate as necessary, but never bringing it Until we have ourselves of perfect chocolate covered caramels. As you can see, the chocolate shell is set at room temperature, it's nice and shiny, and it looks like a thing But how do they taste? I wouldn't say that they're indescribable, but they definitely taste They're soft and chewy and and just about everything I would advise against sharing these unless you want unruly neighbors. - Hmm. Hmm. This is good. This is really good. - Not too hot. Extra chocolate. Shaken, not stirred. - [Babish] Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Binging with Babish. For this week, we're taking from &quot;The Santa Clause,&quot; a so the least that I can do is So here I have a collection of and cocoa powders, both of which we're gonna Technically it's not hot cocoa if there's chocolate solids in it, but this is what's gonna and velvety and rich. But our bread and butter is This is where it really pays off to mix and match your flavors. I've got three different Some are earthy and woody and Before we make our master we first have to come up with the best way to integrate them into the beverage. And our kitchen producer Kendall where we add a couple directly to our cocoa powders This prevents the dreaded and is how you should from now until the end of time. Next up, we gotta talk liquids, and generally, I like of milk and heavy cream. I've got one cup of each here that I'm gonna combine and over medium low heat, Not only did Judy say that but bring milk to a boil can scald it, changing its consistency and flavor. Once we've reached about we're gonna kill the of bittersweet chocolate which is three tablespoons tiny whisk together with a Tiny whisk thoroughly until everybody is melted and homogenous. Season with a bit of kosher salt, and optionally, you of vanilla extract and both of which will serve to Once everybody's mixed in, all there is left to do is serve and enjoy this rich, decadent mug of And don't get me wrong, this is very, very, very good, but it's not I worked on So I decided to explore some other methods for making hot chocolate as Starting with the French, we're combining the same and whole milk. Then we're adding a tablespoon of sugar and a whopping eight killing the heat and stirring and emulsified, which is gonna thick, deeply chocolatey hot chocolate, which, of course, we're gonna season with a little pinch of kosher salt before ladling into a much because this stuff kind just a cup of melted chocolate, which you're definitely not but it's not what I and I would watch &quot;The that I broke the VHS. Now, really just for shoots and googles, I'm gonna try the Italian which in addition to the three tablespoons each sugar and cocoa powder, contains one tablespoon of This we're gonna add directly into the steaming milk and heavy cream with the heat on low this time because we need the corn starch to be cooked for a couple minutes. This plus four ounces of dark chocolate is going to make for almost pudding like hot chocolate, and that's because that's what it is. It's pretty much pudding. You could absolutely eat you could put it in the fridge and it would set up just And drinking it hot out of a cup is, suffice it to say, a bizarre experience. Whoa, I don't think so, Tim. But there's one more ultra rich method I wanna try. This one Hailing from Vienna. This time we're whisking together our three tablespoons of Setting that aside while we dump eight ounces of dark chocolate into our one cup each Melting that completely over low heat, and then we're kind of gonna bringing stuff back over to the eggs and then slowly ladling the while whistling constantly, which is gonna temper them and prevent them from scrambling when we add them back to the pot, which we're gonna cook for one to two minutes until we just start to And there you have it, a ultra thick and chocolatey with an added layer of Again, a fun experiment, The answer there I think shaken, not stirred. So for our ultimate hot cocoa, we're combining three tablespoons of sugar with two tablespoons each Valrhona and A little pinch of instant espresso powder and a pinch of salt. Tiny whisk until homogenous. And then it's time to grab our shaker, an insulated thermos Before we go any further, I must tell you that this is dangerous. Shaking hot liquids which could explode and burn So I must advise you So in addition to the I'm gonna add two and a half ounces of Callebaut dark chocolate wafers. And through a funnel, I'm going to pour in my Then I'm gonna seal this guy uptight with both its screw top lids just enough to melt the chocolate, dissolve the cocoa powder and sugars and I hope aerate the which is gonna make it nice and thick. Very carefully unscrew the top to slowly release the pressure. And then there's only one in a replica of the actual mug It's made of sterling and I'm gonna be drinking from now on. But how is this particular beverage? Well, gotta say, I think we did our job. It's richer and thicker but not as overwhelming It is not too hot, it is extra chocolatey, and it was shaken, not stirred. Happy holidays, guys. (upbeat music) All right, so today we're making stollen, a Germanic holiday sweet bread for which we're gonna need First up, marzipan. Into the bowl of a food processor goes 150 grams of almond flour and 180 grams of confectionary sugar. We're just gonna pulse those a few times to make sure that everybody And then stage left, we are combining two one teaspoon of rose water, which we're gonna pour down the feed tube of the and then process for about 30 seconds until it forms a ball of adult Play-Doh, otherwise known as marzipan. A versatile almond sugar paste good for everything from We're dividing into two four Both of which we're gonna and fridge until ready to use. These can be made ahead up Next step, some candied citrus peel. Now, this stuff is a and you can buy it at the store, but it's not nearly as good. So depending on how much it is a step worth taking. We're gonna start by removing the peels from two oranges and four lemons, making sure to remove any before thinly slicing, AKA julienning, preferably into nice long strips, which are great for cocktails. Once julienned, we're gonna of boiling water and poach them twice. This step is optional, but it does remove a lot of So basically just boil 'em for 15 minutes, drain them and boil them Draining one last time and setting aside while we get ready to candy. Back in our medium sauce pot, we are combining one cup of You'll notice that I'm skipping out on the metric system here You're making a sugar syrup of two parts sugar to one part water. Bring it to a gentle bubble and add the drained peel. Crank the heat all the way down to low and simmer for 45 minutes, stirred occasionally to make and remove it from the heat when everybody's nice Then it's out of the Grab the still hot fruit and dump it straight into where we're gonna toss it around, make sure that everybody's well coated, not clumping together too much. And then using fine mesh we're gonna start shaking Kinda helps to swirl it to make sure that you're getting all the lumps and clumps out. Then we're grabbing each individual piece and placing them on a rack There can be a little bit of overlap, but make sure they're so that they don't stick. Then we're letting this for 24 hours. So, yeah, like I said, huge Next up, we gotta make So in a resealable container, we're combining 250 grams of raisins, 125 grams of slivered almonds, and 200 grams of our candied peeled chopped into bite-sized pieces. Then we're topping that of our favorite dark rum, to make sure everybody's evenly boozed. Covering and letting soak Do your best not to just Either way, I'm not gonna judge you. Now finally, it's time to We're gonna start by combining 235 mil or one cup of lukewarm milk with 25 grams of sugar and nine grams or about three teaspoons of instant yeast. Give this little tiny whisk in with your brandspanking and let it sit for about 10 until it's nice and foamy. Then in the bowl of a stand mixer, we are combining 480 grams or about four cups of all-purpose flour, 175 grams of sugar, one teaspoon kosher salt, one teaspoon ground cinnamon, half a teaspoon of ground cardamom, and a traditional optional ingredient, one teaspoon of ground mace. Tiny whisk those together and then it's time to Starting with our foamy, two teaspoons of vanilla extract, 113 grams or one and a half sticks of softened unsalted butter, the zest of one lemon, which is like kind of and one large egg with I know I sort of made this out of order, but you can use these reserved egg whites to make your marzipan or to make a frittata knowing the amount of in stollen alone. We're fixing dough hooks on medium speed for five to eight minutes until a smooth tacky, silky, This is a very enriched, so it's gonna be very forgiving. Dump that in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with lightly oiled and let rest at room temperature for about an hour and a half. During which time it should poof, but not quite double in size. Then it's headed back into the stand mixer where we're gonna introduce it This is definitely the down and dirty way to get your mixture into the dough and it's gonna be a little messy. The added booze might make so don't be afraid to to make things more handleable. Once the fruit and nuts we're turning it out onto a where we're gonna divide This recipe makes two loaves of stollen, one for you and one for your neighbor that lent you that extension cord one time and you've never been quite Well, here's your answer. German holiday bread. Lightly flour each of the halves, and then we're gonna which are kind of like a tall circle. We want these ovals to be as long as the eventual loaf will be. I've just spent the past half hour trying to write jokes about so it's like, I dunno, Then we're grabbing one and rolling it out into a marzipan log, just shy of the same length as our oval so it fits neatly inside like so. Then just like we're wrapping we're gonna fold the dough over the top of the Not trying to wrap it we're just gonna fold and then we're gonna pinch each end shut. Concealing the marzipan from Then using the upper we're gonna sort of press a divot around each side of the marzipan. Then it's time for this guy's final rise. So we're gonna lightly grease a couple sheets of plastic wrap, loosely cover the stollen set in a rim baking sheet and rest for an hour and a After which time, once again, it should have poofed a little bit, but not quite doubled in size. Then it's headed into a 175 degrees Celsius oven or until deeply golden brown and puffed. If you like, you can use a thermometer to see if it's hit 190 degrees Fahrenheit or about 87 degrees Celsius internal. And then it's time to prick. Using a toothpick, we're gonna I'm talking like at This obviously is gonna make Why do we need those holes you might ask. Well, they're to soak up butter, a stick of molten butter per pricked loaf. Just keep brushing it on there and let it soak up Then we've only got one more task before we let these guys cool, and that is to give of powdered sugar. Do not be shy with the powdered sugar. It should look like they were Then we're setting these completely at least four hours All there is left to do is hack it open and take a look at that Nice. You can sort of see that channel of marzipan running through the center. It's like a bonus when you're eating it. This stuff when wrapped up can last for a solid two and it's just really nice to have around during the holidays. You can snack on it, you can toast it up, you can make french toast out of it. In fact, it's so good, if you're not careful, it (door bangs) - Oh, my god. - Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Binging with Babish. For this week, we're taking a look at the ill-fated strata for which we're gonna need some bread. 10 slices of hearty white sandwich loaf, which we're gonna cut snowflakes out of by virtue of some snowflake and cut the remaining scraps into cubes. Huh, messy and scrappy and neat is a pin, and you need both to make this dish just like, oh, I don't know, a family. Speaking of family, if you in order to prevent any more tension, you might wanna ease That is pre-measure, so you can throw everything And your best friend for this task is the humble rimmed baking sheet, which I'm having a hard time Ow! It's the perfect tray for pre measuring and organizing your ingredients so you can put 'em in the fridge. So we're gonna channel our inner Sarah Jessica Parker's character measuring out a half and one tablespoon of Then thinly sliced 14 ounces of tomatoes. I like to keep these on paper towel to prevent tomato dippies. We're also peeling and thinly separating them and Then Sarah Jessica Parker's That was her name, Meredith. She strikes me as the that is painstakingly and off the mushrooms one at a You know, the unnecessarily fussy way. So once we've painstakingly we're cleaning the countertop and dumping them right It's important to slice thinly and evenly to ensure even cooking. Now once sliced, you could and fridge 'em with the or cook them off now. There's that tablespoon oil we had so much fun measuring before, which we're bringing over medium high heat. Oh, dear, this pan simply won't do. It's too small and the and destroy our pristine cooktop. So same procedure this time in a high walled carbon steel wok, and this time we're going to add one teaspoon of kosher salt. This is going to help draw as they cook about five to seven minutes or until beginning to brown. Now, after a brief workspace sanitation, we're ready to continue I have here one pound of fresh mozzarella that I put in the freezer for 15 minutes before thinly slicing, five eggs, three cups of whole milk, one teaspoon kosher salt, quarter teaspoon of garlic powder, two ounces of finely grated Parmesan, and a dozen black olives thinly sliced. Now we can begin to cook or perform a quick workspace sanitation. Cover with plastic and cook tomorrow when Now, this might seem a little fastidious, but it's actually a great and it's what Kendall does So thanks, Kendall. Once you're positive that your we're going to thoroughly and prolifically lubricate it with butter, that half stick of the unsalted stuff that we stowed with our meats. Then we're laying down in a single layer, before topping them torn into little pieces, half of our thin tomato slices. All of our onions are that I forgot to put on our tray, the rest of the mozzarella slices, and then we're topping that Then each star gets its own tomato slice, or, you know, close enough. Next up, we need to build the custard that we're gonna pour over the top, combining the three cups of whole milk, five large eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few twists of freshly which we're not in the recipe, which is why they're not mised. But then we're adding and quarter teaspoon of garlic powder, whisking until homogenous, just as fast as your wrist will allow and carefully pouring over making sure to saturate otherwise it could dry Only two steps left to go. That's our two ounces of and our dozen thinly sliced olives. And then this guy ready to and fridged overnight. And I know you're asking yourself, &quot;Is he gonna spill it for comic effect?&quot; And the answer is no. Jess loves this movie and she So the next morning, we're the strata from the fridge, removing the plastic wrap and baking for one to one and a half hours in a preheated 325 degree Fahrenheit oven until it's quite possibly the most beautiful And it springs back lightly when poked and a tester emerges clean. Let it sit for 10 minutes. During which time, it's going to hilariously deflate. Divvy with a thin spatula and serve. Now, Kendall also loves this movie and she's the one who found the recipe in the DVD special features of her copy of &quot;The Family Stone.&quot; And I gotta say, whoever came up with this one, bravo. (indistinct) for flavor, and consider this your cordial invitation to the Clean Plate Club. (brooding music) (phone rings) - Hello? - [Caller] Is it done? - Yeah, it's done. - [Caller] Is it crispy? - Yeah, it's crispy. Now Let me speak to my son. - [Caller] Oh, let me hear it. (bread crunching) - Is that crispy enough for - [Preston] Daddy. Daddy, please. I'm scared. Preston, is that you? - [Caller] You have one hour? - No, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. It's not just his favorite holiday. It's his birthday. Hello? Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Binging with Babish. For this week, we're taking a from &quot;They Kidnapped my Son on Christmas,&quot; which Fletcher made a point of showing that he was scooping and After all, it's not every day that your son's life is So I got myself a big old It looks the part and so it should toast up very nicely. So gonna cut myself a sandwich size chunk, split it in half, and scoop it out, making sure to reserve as the bread meat. It's her favorite part of the bread. I have to admit, I used to and eat it like an apple. Now, this sandwich both for its crisp factor and for its fat. The latter of which, once we've removed the bacon is going to make an excellent So I'm brushing down, and then pretending that this is TikTok. Then since the only greens Fletcher soaks his lettuce in ice water for about 10 minutes to crisp it up. And, of course, he opted baked to a state of crispy And that's all there is to it. We can start stacking two of two folded over slices thrown back in the oven to melt. Top up with our crispy bacon, our chili and padded dry lettuce. And oddly enough, what not exactly known for their But nevertheless, that's And that's all there is to it. Top it up and squish it down with some further satisfying noises. (bread crunching) Now that is one crispy sandwich. Or is it? As soon as I cut through it, I could tell that every was too rigid and dry, creating a situation, but disastrously crunchy. Oh, yeah, that sandwich is So how do we take all the same elements and make them crispy instead of crunchy? Let's start with making our Frozen fried chicken being fully cooked is usually pretty dried out So I've got some chicken breasts here that I'm butterflying and pounding flat, then hitting on both sides with and freshly ground black pepper so that it can dry brine in the fridge, safeguarding its flavor Next step to achieve crunchy tomatoes, there's only one direction to go, and that is fried green tomatoes, which we're slicing, and And since pretty much we need to set up a dredge station. I got one and a half cups of flour that I'm seasoning with one teaspoon smoked paprika, and a quarter teaspoon each onion powder, white pepper, and garlic powder, plus a pinch of kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper. Tiny whisk to combine and spread out on a wide rimmed plate. Then I've got two eggs with a cup and a half buttermilk to represent the wet And last but not least, a cup and a half of I'm gonna blot the excess and dredge them first then in the egg mixture, ideally utilizing the wet but inevitably giving up on it after three or four tomatoes. Rinse and repeat until complete. And then for our next two breadings, we're simply swapping the First, the chicken, likewise blotted dry, and hit with the same stages Lastly, to achieve crispy cheese, we could just make a freako, but I think that would unlike a giant super one that's getting the double before being coated in breadcrumbs. Then headed straight into the freezer for 20 minutes before deep fry. Speaking of which, I heated up to 350 degrees Fahrenheit where I'm gonna start for about five minutes until they're floating in golden brown. Next up the chicken because it's so thin, this will ensure a crisp Skim out some of the And last but not least, frying for a frightful until golden brown and Everybody's getting drained on wire racks and kept warm in a low oven. Last but not least, the I have a slightly more that I'm not going to scoop. What I am gonna do is placing face down on a and into a 375 degree Fahrenheit oven for about five minutes weighed This hopefully allowed the bread to retain some interior moisture And because nobody likes a dry sandwich, not even kidnappers, I'm smearing down on both sides with a mixture of mayo and grain mustard, and then beginning to assemble, starting with our crispy chicken, followed by our crispy bacon, followed by our crispy tomatoes, followed by our crispy hunk of cheese. I realize now that I did not make it appropriately sandwich sized, but it's just gonna have to do. This is a hostage situation. Press, realize that the cheese is just gonna ooze out the sides, soldier forward, and let's you that crisp. I take back what I said before. Now that's a crispy sandwich, even if it is violently The cross section certainly looks better. It's not every day that you have a triple fried sandwich. But has it tastes? Let's take a big old crispy bite. And it's obviously awesome. It's fried chicken and fried With that in mind, I'm gonna so that the crew can - [Son] Daddy? Hunter? - Paxton? Cooper? Byron? Preston? Felipe? Felipe, is that you? No. (beep) (beep) (beep) Wow, this thing's tough. - Daddy. Daddy's here, Paxton. Merry Christmas, Paxton. Is that crispy enough for you? - [Crew] Daddy! (group laughs) (brooding music)