Are you ready to take up the sword? Its fiery spirit is both alluring and frightening. The fire has fused two precious metals - the Good and the Evil - into a strong blade. The difference between them is on the cutting edge of the blade. Do not let your feelings blind your mind in the crucible of battle. Only a true warrior can feel this difference and master the sword. To achieve the holy glory. The secrets of warrior skills are engraved on the thin blade. You have to read them yourself, to find them and to comprehend them. By yourself. In a battle. Keep your enemies at the distance of the sword. ETHOS Ethos (from the Greek ethos - custom) is a characteristic of the culture of a certain community, which is expressed in the system of its prevailing values. The ethos of the Ukrainian army is defined by the following basic values: freedom, courage, personal dignity, self-control, brotherhood, and loyalty to the oath! I don't know of any part of the frontline where we have not been involved during this war. BOND. Regiment Commander Starting with the actions that happened in the Crimea. Then we worked at the Donetsk Airport. This was our first battle we've taken in this war. And I believe that we've defended it with great honor. We worked to support the guys in Mariupol. We worked in Berdiansk, in Tokmak, in Melitopol, and in Bakhmut. And we did a lot to protect our capital, Kyiv. I think we will tell you more about the nuances in due course, when we have permission to do so. YEROKHA. FPV operator Our regiment is special because we perform the most difficult tasks in the most difficult areas of the frontline. We perform tasks on land, on water, and in the air. The Special Operations Forces (SOF) are a tool of the State that is used when other forces and means cannot help to solve some issues. Or, for example, if it is needed to make some things in a secret manner so that neither the society nor the enemy understands what is going on. This was the reason to set up the Special Operations Forces. AREY (ARES). Officer. For our Regiment, the absolute value is to fulfill the task with minimal losses. Now we are in a war of unconventional actions. It is very difficult to say where you did the right thing and where you did the wrong thing if we are to stick to the stereotypes of nineteenth century wars. As for the general ideology of this war, I will say that we stand for our country. We did not attack anyone or anything. That is why we are now doing everything to protect our state, our country so that our children can sleep peacefully. I don't think you can do Good without using your fists, but you shouldn't act in such a way that it may turn into excessive aggression. Every warrior, every person must have a good self-control to know where to stop. This is the main goal and ideology that we are fostering in our military personnel. WARRIOR A spec-ops soldier is a multifaceted, experienced person with an understanding of the future, a one hundred percent patriot of his country. This is definitely a person who has very strong leadership skills, because one of the priority tasks of the SOF is to lead and motivate other people. First of all, this is a person of strong spirit. And any SOF unit consists of strong-minded people who are ready to go great length for their country. To be the ideal SOF soldier? First, a person is to be brave. He must not be afraid of the difficulties he will face. He is to have a character of steel, because a lot of tasks are based on character. When some equipment is missing, or the combat situation changes unexpectedly, it all depends on expertise and character. Physical training, which, in principle, can be developed over time, and combat training are also important. In principle, people are taught these things. Therefore, the most important things are character and courage. A Special Operations Forces soldier is, first and foremost, a child of his land, a defender of his homeland, a highly motivated individual who is capable of sacrificing everything for his land. COURAGE One may say that courage is the word that defines our third regiment JOKER. Instructor. Brave warriors who go all the way and never give up, never give in. This is brotherhood. Every member of my unit is like a brother to me. I know that I can rely on him at any time, and he will support me and have my back. We understand each other at a glance, even at a half-look, so to speak. An assault trooper is a well-trained fighter, primarily physically and mentally prepared. This is the main thing. There is a lot of physical work, and it is very difficult to work in the trenches. And you have to realize that you may not come back. The first times you shoot at the enemy, your emotions are mixed. Your heartbeat accelerates, but then you get used to it over time, you just realize that you are doing the right thing. Because if I don't work it out, he will murder my brother-in-arms or another Ukrainian soldier. The adrenaline is very high, and when you have already worked out, completed your task, it is the biggest thrill - the feeling that you have done a very important thing. Mental readiness. A person must have a strong character. ZARYAD (CHARGE). Instructor. I adjust myself in such a way that these people are a threat to my child, my wife, my parents. And, of course, this brings out this aggression towards the enemy. I like the fact that I can be useful and contribute to the victory of my country. In fact, everyone makes some contribution, everyone does their job. Currently, instructor work is very important, and accordingly, should be appreciated. Well, first of all, it's about unit coherence. That is, people have to work together, and work for more than one week, more than one month, and even more than one year. My sister-in-law said, 'You used to be a simple physical education teacher, but now you are a warrior, and you are a worthy son of Ukraine'. In general, I found myself in the army as a personality, and I like my job. I saw that I am useful to my country, and I started developing in this direction, and I realized that I would fight for the freedom of Ukraine to the end. CHARACTER In a crisis, the most important are all the skills that you have practiced over the years before this situation. If you can fall back on your skills in an extreme situation and rely on them, and know that your moves will be firm and sharp, then you have not lived your life in vain. Even when we were in Avdiivka, at all hours, well, roughly speaking, LYS (Fox) Regiment serviceman even when the set up was tough as hell, we could be called at any time upon command, and we were ready to go. And when you keep on preparing, training, and going through the teamwork, then you gain confidence in your actions and confidence in your teammates. And then you can go to work, successfully carry out any tasks. They say 'Fire' - you fire. For me, everything is staightforward today. We are working, and we are doing well. We're dealing with those orcs there just fine. We are ready to hold on. We need more weapons, more equipment, more manpower. And that's it. And we will succeed. BROTHERHOOD For my unit, the absolute value is the team you work with. SPARK. Combat Medic And it should be, so to speak, working at 100%. Let's take our body, you can't stumble along very far on the left leg if the right leg won't work. We should all work as hard as possible at the same level. We must improve ourselves every day. Develop new skills. Always be the first. I focus on the task at hand. On achieving the upshot. I have to do my job as well as possible and take care of the personnel. I have found my character. Because you can't go long without character here, given the tasks we perform. And more willpower. The willpower to do our job. A real unit must be, first of all, professional. BITE. Marksman Secondly, they must be physically and psychologically tough. And the third is the coordination within the group itself. The distance is 100 meters. For such a hit. I hit it with the second shot. I can't say it was very good. It was a C-plus I almost hit where I was aiming. As I see it, I did not take into account the gust of wind. And the bullet was blown a little to the side. That's why I hit a bit from the side CONTROL Moral attitude can be very different. Because the situations can be quite different. And the mental state can vary. During a mission, the main thing is to be able to tune yourself into the same state. To understand why you are here, what you are doing here, and how you are doing it. And to understand the danger of being here. This allows you to control everything that is happening around you. And to control yourself. WAY As for any successful operation, for us it is the experience, first of all, of our guys who work. Interoperability with other units and their support during the battle. This is the high level of training of the command and control bodies. Because not always everything goes as smoothly as you plan. And there is a saying that if everything goes according to the plan, then you have failed to calculate something. And there have been some miscalculations, but it was very important for us to make decisions very quickly, almost instantly, and to eliminate those shortcomings. And to understand each other, even when there is no signal, to understand what to do if something doesn't work out. The key words in planning of any operation are 'what if'. THE DEFENSE OF KYIV The most heroic moment was probably the shattering of the assault on the city of Brovary. The convoy was stopped and fire was delivered from different directions using both artillery and anti-tank weapons. The enemy was stopped. In the end, the regiment that led the offensive, in parade formation, in columns, suffered losses. That regiment was almost destroyed. At that time, the enemy used its units differently, planning and carrying out its actions not like now. I don't know why. Most likely, the enemy's intelligence was not working well at that time. Perhaps some erroneous conclusions were made by the enemy that that operation, as they claimed, would have ended in three days. But they were not even using their units in the way the statutes prescribe on the use and movement of convoys. They were just trying to enter towns and villages in some kind of parade formation. This was exactly the job, so to say, for our wolves. To run around in the enemy's back lines and destroy their columns from ambushes, to mine their routes, burning their rear convoys and everything else. Then the enemy, of course, came to realize that they were doing something wrong and began to use a slightly different tactic that was in line with their military statutes. So they tipped the balance a little bit. THE KHARKIV COUNTEROFFENSIVE The Kharkiv operation was very thouroughly planned. It was a high-quality planning by the people who contorled the entire offensive operation. Together with the the informational and psychological operation, camouflaging all actions, and calculating almost every minute. That was the power of this operation. So when the Armed Forces see success, they see that the enemy is not what the media portray it as, that as soon as a gap appears in its defense, it starts to run away. Moreover, this has been observed in many areas. This is what allowed our units to move forward. Our task was to get our infantry into position. HYRYA (Kettlebell) A serviceman of the regiment We were moving into positions with equipment and were ambushed by the Katsaps. They skipped our first attack group and ambushed our second group. That was my group that they set an ambush for. When first striking group gave us the command to move, the road looked empty, but the Katsaps were waiting. We were on the road, and the Katsaps were hiding in the trees. The juiciest thing is that those were Russian Maroon berets. So they fought well, but they lost. AVDIIVKA This is the area where we have worked for almost all 10 years of this war. We had to withdraw from there because the enemy had a very significant air superiority, and in the last days the air bombs were used almost almost every 20 minutes, so we simply had nothing to counteract with. Avdiivka Coke and Chemical Plant - Koksokhim. It was planned to be a fortress to hold the entire Avdiivka area. As a matter of fact, it fulfilled its task, we were based there, and we used Koksokhim as a base for all of our missions and all our tasks. Later, while our units were leaving Avdiivka, Koksokhim also played a very important role because it was used by the evacuation teams - medics, who were taking our wounded fellows out of the city - and there were also the reserve teams that reinforced our main groups during the defense of Avdiivka. If we compare the forces and means on our side, on the side of Ukraine, and count the involved enemy units... I believe that we did the utmost of what could have been done there. When it was decided that the units should withdraw from the town, the units left the city in a very organized manner, with minimal losses. During the Avdiivka Operation, I worked in the FPV unit. We were located in one of the areas of Avdiivka hitting the enemy within the range set for our group. At first these were the assault actions from our side, our guys assaulted, and we covered those groups. Later on, we covered the planned withdrawal. MECHANIC. Instructor. The purpose of tactical and special drill is to test the ability of special forces units to perform their assigned tasks, namely, special reconnaissance, raids, ambushes, and sabotage. The training of special operations units, namely those of the Third Regiment, involves the performance of tasks by tactical units at the strategic level. A SOF soldier is, first and foremost, a highly intelligent specialist, STRATEGY able to use the modern technologies, sometimes in an unexpected way, to destroy the enemy or create adverse conditions for the enemy, SVAROG. Instructor to carry out actions both on our territory and on the territory controlled by the enemy. He must be aware of his role in this mission, aware of his choices, understand why he is doing it and what for, because the work he does is extremely complex and super difficult, and in some situations it simply goes almost beyond human capabilities. Thanks to their conscious approach to the process, these people make a lot of adjustments on their own, contribute to the initiative and development. And they keep up with the development of the technologies in the theater of modern warfare. From this stage on, the group is in the gray zone or behind enemy lines, where the enemy is actively searching for such groups, using all kinds of modern technologies, like drones, reconnaissance drones, strike UAVs. Now, when the group is on the move, it will be hunted by drones that will drop various elements, simulating explosive objects. Right now, during the movement of the group, one could observe what is called patrolling, and also to see why SOF soldiers are sometimes identified with wolves, with a wolf pack. The guys moved one by one, as quietly as possible. With certain distance breaks, monitoring sectors, in order to ensure that all members of the pack were safe. In general, how to fight evil without becoming evil yourself? A professional and expert approach plays an important role here. So, when we go on a mission, in order to protect ourselves from threats or death as much as possible, we need to leave all the emotions behind, where we come from, because the enemy is very cruel and insidious, and emotional behavior will be dangerous primarily for ourselves. Therefore, when performing this or that work to combat evil, you need to do it as emotionlessly and as professionally as possible, simply doing what is planned in order to return and to get a new task. Such an approach allows you to preserve your inner world, our own mental and emotional state safe. To remain the same person as you came to the war. To be able to come back, maybe albeit with some changes, but not so drastic as to become what you fought against. There is a kinda grand-rhetoric statement about the difference between a soldier and a warrior. A soldier thinks only about the battle he's in, while a warrior thinks about the battle as a whole. What does it mean? A soldier is usually focused on only one event. That is, he is minimally prepared and narrowly focused. That is, all he needs is to survive one battle. A warrior prepares for a whole war. That is, there may be defeats, there may be some setbacks, there may be victories, but from all of this, he will draw conclusions and prepare for the next battle. This is the difference between a soldier and a warrior. IDEA However hard it may be, however cruel it is, you must walk this path of goodness. And even if life sometimes leads you astray, knocks you out of the rut, and you drop on your knees, you need to find the strength to get up and go on. Nonetheless this is what good is, very bloody as it is, very cruel good. But there is no other way to win independence and freedom. We are sure to win. And we will pass on this victory, this independence and freedom, to our children and descendants. Nobody has escaped Eneyko yet. ENEIKO (Little Aeneas). Sniper In one of the battles in 2022, in the summer, during the battles for Severodonetsk, during the morning reconnaissance, there was very thick foliage in the area where we were moving, I stepped on something and felt a blast, I was thrown back. I immediately radioed my brother-in-arms... ...it turned out a little funny, because I immediately said, "Cherry, Cherry, Eneiko is killed in action" And then I realized that I was still alive, so I said, "Disregard killed in action - just wounded" Looking to the right and left, I saw that I was simply lying on the dragonteeth mines [in Ukraine they are called "petals"]. Those were anti-personnel mines, and I started to look around carefully and give my guys instructions on how to approach. Later, a car arrived and my brothers-in-arms loaded me into the car. While the car was driving away, all four wheels hit the mines and went bust, so you can imagine how many dragonteeth were there - hundreds and hundreds. And my brother-in-arms, call sign Master, was walking in front of the car shooting the petals with his guns, automatic rifle and even pistol, because it was next to impossible to drive through. I gave myself an order, an instruction to my consciousness and to my body, that I should return to the service in six months at the most and continue the work that we hadn't finished. This vow motivated me a great deal, because my brothers-in-arms continued to perform combat missions. And what is most important, I was motivated by the fact that I have four children at home, and I told myself, no one can do this work we are doing better than me when we protect our holy Ukrainian land. The human body has such a potential for endurance and resilience that we use it in our daily lives, perhaps, by 8-10% only. And I felt it, because our strength is our spirit, and our strength is our mind. Also, our strenght is in our attitude towards the situation or the problem and the pain that surround us or happen to us. Life is worthless if you don't have an idea, if you don't have a direction to go, if you don't have a meaning in life. And the meaning of life is our family, our children, our parents, our country, our anthem, our flag, our trident. And the main thing in our situation in life, in the one in which I, the whole of Ukraine, and all my brothers-in-arms are now, is not to lose heart. We are strong in spirit because we are now fighting for our land, for our people. And I say that to destroy us, Ukrainians, is the same as to paint the sky, that is when pigs fly. We will definitely win, because the God is with us and victory is with us. INSTINCTS MASTER. Sniper A lot of guys give names their weapons, but I don't name my Barrett. I just call her Barrett, so I do - Barrett. How do I communicate with her? When we shoot Katsaps, I talk to her: you've already done it, you know how to do it, I just chamber the round, make the windage adjustment and work. Master reads books in the library. After the war, he will have a lot of books read. I've spotted a few 'readers'. They're illiterate though. Look, there's a fa**ot shooting. A sniper is like a surgeon's scalpel. And it has to be used properly, it cannot be used to cut everything. You need to know when and where to cut. At the same time there are old Soviet stereotypes. I mean they believe that a sniper always destroys only a general, only a commander. Now, on the front line, when there are assaults, you won't know what's going on. A general does not run during assaults. And it is unlikely that even a company commander is running in front of them, and you don't have time to figure it out. I evaluate the effectiveness of snipers in the numbers of enemies killed. Our small unit can destroy a large number of enemies in certain areas under certain conditions. When our group arrived in Bakhmut, we were able to influence the situation on the frontline where we were working. The Katsaps behaved in a free and easy manner. They shot at our infantry. The infantry asked for help, because the guys did not understand where they were being fired from. And when our group moved in, after the first 12 days of work, the Katsaps grew much calmer, because there were much fewer of them left. We've had a couple of good operations like this. In Maryanka, the guys have shot quite a few. There was a Katsap assault, the guys worked in twos, 13 people in one assault, and the assault ended. In Hostomel they worked well. Then we met a company of paratroopers. It was an ambush, just like in the books. There were groups from our Regiment, snipers, GUR, and a local territorial defense. And we succeeded, just like in the books. For me, these were my easiest shots, and they were probably the most thrilling. You just aim and shoot at 100 meters, aim and shoot. I've never had that in my life before. Well, I did target practice, which is cool, of course, but target practice is one thing, and when you're shooting at Katsaps, it's another. In Hostomel, there was a case when a Katsap was running, 300 meters away. I didn't think about anything, just took it out on 2 Mil-Rad and shot. In such moments, you work at the level you have been trained for. Perhaps when we practice, we want to have great results, but when we get into a combat situation, we fall back to our capabilities. And this means that my capabilities were such that I didn't think about them and I just did it. To do this, you need to train a lot so that you develop a physical memory. I know I was shooting, It was 300 meters. I remember that it was about 2 Mil-Rads. And when a Katsap appeared, I quickly took the Barrett and shot. Everything becomes more like an instinct. If you start thinking about what should be the adjustment, where to shoot, you will not hit. And these instincts need to be developed in training, in practice, on your experience that you gain during combat operations, on training grounds. The experience that you constantly build up. And then one day it starts to work. Sometimes it works in a way that you don't even realize how you did it. I would say it is the art of constant self-improvement. This is what a sniper is. When you realize that you need to develop further. We are ones of the many servicemen who still need to see their targets. Because now artillerymen, they are good, they shoot far away. FPV pilots, they also fly, they are very efficient. And we need to see. The most important thing in our work is not to give up and keep working. If you keep working, the result will come. It's like hunting, but hunting for a Katsap. It is much harder and more interesting than hunting an animal because the animal will not hit back. And the animal, the animal is not guilty. But the Katsaps came to our land, and they must be eliminated. And our guys become despondent when they don't eliminate the Katsaps. When they can't shoot a Katsap for a week or two, they crumble up. And as soon as the snipers work, kill one, two, three, they come back to life, and it increases the competition in the group. Everyone starts competing to see who can shoot more Katsaps. It's an art to shoot a Katsap. Russians are very good at sniping. I follow them, and I see how they are developing. They already have .375 calibers, they're already using modern large calibers. They still can get all the modern firearms that are available in the Western countries. They are developing quite well, and their sniping is strong. I recon their sniping is very strong, and we should not underestimate them. We have to keep making progress. For example, recently we've been contacted by the Third Assault Brigade, they asked us to help them on their front line, because they had guys wounded by .375 caliber. And the working distance was two kilometers. Such a distance, these are very long-range shots. So it means that some enemy experts arrived. Now we are monitoring the target, simultaneously visually observing the wind conditions, measuring the distance to the target, and at the same time, through the rangefinder, looking at the observation sector. ZAYCHIK (Bunny). Sniper All the time you are sitting, lying, standing, watching, you are waiting for warmer temperature or for something else interesting to appear in this sector. KYSLY (Sour). Sniper Or someone moves out, you just wait. And when he appears, you take the shot. And you are very happy when it all works out. When the Katsap falls down and doesn't move. You fire at them so that they couldn't even show their heads out of their holes. You hit everything that moves so that it falls. Everything that moves, so that it doesn't move. It's just that our job is to some extent too romanticized, too mystified. There is a certain "wow" in it. Some also call us dinosaurs. Technologies do not stand still, while we are still in our own way. We are constantly working, our work has always been. It is and will be. There will always be work for us. At the moment, the enemy's advantage is in their numbers. There are just too many of them. And they are scaling up. If they succeed in something, they just use it as long as it works. For them, human resources are nothing. They just throw people in, throw and A lot, just hell of a lot. Not a human-centered attitude, absolutely inhumane. And from the point of view of mathematics and the system, when they have to put one regiment on the assault, this is an acceptable loss. But they have a result, they have taken the settlement. We cannot afford this. Human life comes first. Everything else is secondary to it. Rifles, equipment, cars - all this is in the third or fifth place. Human life comes first. If we can save human life, Our second mission is to destroy as many enemies as possible. But human life is on top of the mind. MEMORY This is a field of memory, in memory of our fallen comrades who gave their lives for our country. This field itself symbolizes the memory of the fellows. It was created by bringing soil from the places where the fellows were born, by their relatives, in small handfuls. And every year, before the full-scale invasion, we had a tradition of sowing this field with wheat and sunflowers. This is our history, and our younger generation should be brought up on this history. That is why memory is very important. HONOR He was a very powerful, strong, motivated Prince who really believed that one can lead an army by own example. He showed the enemy that he was not afraid of anything with his bold "I'm coming after you". The Prince's policy and lifestyle were aimed at strengthening his army and improving it, and thanks to this he became famous. The Prince's name and his glorious campaigns impose a responsibility to maintain the strength of ancestors and the faith of the ancestors in the invincibility of our land. Sviatoslav the Brave had a specific army with a specific approach to warfare, quite artful, quite, let's say, unified. That is, every warrior in Sviatoslav's army mastered different types of weapons, tactics, skills, and an understanding of the tactics of warfare. And this gave them an advantage even in a battle in the minority. We also perform very difficult tasks and participate in very difficult battles, just like Prince Sviatoslav did. It is an honor for us to bear the name of this great commander. The last battle, the last battle? Courage, honor, brotherhood, self-control, and loyalty to the idea of good moved his every muscle. His native land became a pillar of the light. Neither the cunning nor the fury of the enemy mattered. Nothing can defeat a true warrior. As long as the spirit of his sword pierces time and space. As long as he calls to the brave. Do you have the power to touch the legend? Then take it and go. I'm coming for you. 3rd Separate Special Forces Regiment named after Prince Sviatoslav the Brave