He can bake a muffin [LAUGHS] Why are you laughing? You never-- You never No, I've never sampled This film has everything. Everything? [DRAMATIC MUSIC] HOST: What stunt was to be a part of, or just I mean-- I don't I did 'cause I blacked out. [LAUGHTER] 'Cause you were drunk. Yeah, well, yeah, that's true. Thanks. I think it was very his incredible 12-story fall. My drunk fall, apparently. Your drunk fall, They don't know [LAUGHTER] No, he was He was just sober and terrified. I was, yeah, stressed. EMILY BLUNT: He wore just to cover up the Yeah, 'cause I had, I was like-- once they I was like, oh, I'm going to You were like one It was like, awoo-gah! Well, I have a fear of Who doesn't have - Tom Cruise. Just want to It was important that I do it first of all, for me to get a people deal with is just these like incredible And so, that scene It's sort of, you're in the long, one-shot and get into an elevator, And then you realize, like, what him off the side so it was important But I could only act-- not scared for so long. And at the end, I had to just It was very memorable, I was very scared for him. And then the other was the record-breaking RYAN GOSLING: Yeah, EMILY BLUNT: Logan we know is the best of the best, around, but you just Logan broke the-- the world record for most cannon previously held, I think in-- Casino Royale, it was 7 rolls. And he did 8 and 1/2. EMILY BLUNT: I hear Daniel Craig He probably did. He's not afraid [LAUGHTER] Job's done. We've both had doubles our whole lives, in, they do all the hard stuff. They risk more than anyone. And then they disappear And we get all so it was exciting to be a part a light on them and that they take every day. HOST: Now do you stunts on any upcoming movies? I'm happy to leave that (LAUGHING) Me too. Yeah. I think there's been Clearly. HOST: Speaking of the cannon Record, are there any Guinness would like to break? Hmm. Most amount of chocolate Yeah. --could I huff You could-- I Especially if they're 'cause I could a crush that. Yeah, any other How about like-- longest [LAUGHTER] You just did it. I just did it. You just did it. You just jinxed it. You just jinxed it! HOST: So the movie has that What's your go-to karaoke song? Mm. Ryan has a very strange I don't like the karaoke-- He got slighted-- rules, too many rules. --one time, years ago. He felt slighted because And then they said, Karaoke etiquette is if someone else just sang it. And they said, No, you can't. And-- They sang it better than Can you do another song? I was like, But then [LAUGHTER] I can't do My Way your way. What if I sing it your way? And they said, And then he got really And he's never been to And he's missing out But Emily Blunt sings karaoke. No, I know how to And we-- you can't and how many songs to Emily to get her to sing. And you know what Phil Collins. - Phil Collins, she said-- That, I'll sing. This one wanted me to do Meat suggestions. I was like What's your Wouldn't you love that? HOST: Which song The world would love that. HOST: --did you pitch her? (BOTH) I Would do HOST: OK. I think what you Thank you. Sorry, Meat Loaf. - Party on. Yo. HOST: Who's most likely Hannah Waddingham. Well, you would You would want But, oddly enough, EMILY BLUNT: Yes, voice HOST: Really? Like pouring Yeah. And he sings sort of sort of, without any irony, - Yeah. But Hannah-- Any kind of '90s R&amp;B-- - Oh, he's down. He's down. Got the moves too. Sweet, sweet, moves. No? He knows how to throw He throws some shapes. [LAUGHTER] I was talking about my And how's that? How does your mom dance? EMILY BLUNT: We-- she's quite-- it's either the hips Like, it's one or the other. It's very presentational, [LAUGHTER] You know my mum. - I guess I'm not shocked. I'm just saying the facts. HOST: What's one of He can bake a muffin [LAUGHS] Why are you laughing? You never-- you never even No, I've never sampled But you can flute a pie crust. I flute a pie crust. What else can I do? This is just adding to Women are just going to be This is just-- What do you got? I had a Moroccan restaurant, put ice in your blending it instead of water-- It works? It get a lot creamier. [LAUGHTER] It's just a little fun tip. That is great advice. Just try ice in your hummus Just try it. What about-- what I can play the cello. It's a little better than [LAUGHS] And why'd you let me lead? [LAUGHTER] No need to be hiding cello. Really? You can play the cello? I used to be able to I can't anymore. When I hit 16, I and I kind of left Why'd you let me say hummus? [LAUGHTER] Creamy hummus. HOST: She talked about That's messed up, man. Oh, your muffins [LAUGHS] How'd we do, boss? [CLICKS] - Yeah. It's holstered. Forget. HOST: Is there an early that you have that nostalgia on to like a memento from it? Oh, a memento? Were you in Memento? Was I? Were you? It was so mind bending. Maybe you were. That's OK. I got the Mary - Do you really? Beat that. Close your mouth We are still not a codfish. Oh, God. Don't go with hummus again. I still have the camera It's a Goosebumps-- EMILY BLUNT: What's RYAN GOSLING: It's a You never saw it? EMILY BLUNT: No, I never saw it. Well, your loss. HOST: Do you really I don't. You have to invent mementos? How do I beat cello and I did love the show So I was pretty HOST: Nice. I'll be-- can I get the check? [LAUGHTER] Yeah. Stupid pictures. Stupid camera. HOST: What would be on your of your characters for this? I think Colt's [ALL TOO WELL] Here's the question. In that scene, is Or is he becoming one? Has that song come like realizing that he is one? Yeah. Has Taylor become his Yeah. --during his mournful time? What do you think? Yeah, I feel like she's Right. Like, do you think Or do you think he's like, kind Blagging? Blagging it. Like I'm doing just kind of blagging it? It is blagging What would be On my playlist it's got to be a lot of we've got going on, right? A bit of Kiss, maybe. [ALL TOO WELL] What are you doing? Just chilling down. HOST: What Taylor think he would be listening to? I think he got an the new Poets one. Did you? She sent him an early - Yeah? And he was just kind of like-- Wow. Just-- no? How does he know us so well? He did a movie. He was like-- he was I'd say Lover is probably Right? Yeah. HOST: What phase do you Mm. What's one of the I mean, listen, at the she's in the more vengeful mode. By the end, she's HOST: Yeah. Anti-Hero? What's a really dark one. Are You Ready For It? What album is that from? My kid's gonna be so mad at Huh? Reputation. HOST: Yeah. She's probably-- - Thank you. Have you been crying Doesn't everyone? HOST: What's a movie that you Salmon Fishing in Yemen. You know what? You're the worst. [LAUGHS] I just like saying it. Thank you. I would say Dirty They're right up overly watched in my brain. Mm-hmm. Cocoon. EMILY BLUNT: Come on. RYAN GOSLING: I do love Cocoon. But I don't watch - No, come on now. Yeah. Groundhog Day, Princess Bride. EMILY BLUNT: Yeah. Inconceivable. HOST: What was a sparked your love for to get into working on movies? I was such a huge I just thought she And like, I love that we 'cause she's sort like, big influences of someone and yet, she's got this, that you just can't take She's so warm and inviting and-- I saw like-- this is-- it was kind of a saw What's Love Got to Do And I thought, Angela it still is one of the best But I walked down to the lobby. And she was there. And I got her autograph. It's the first Was she there to Well, she might have. Now that I know how these there for a screening or like, a But it was crazy I don't know. I was just like-- and I saw her. And I asked for her autograph. And she was so nice. - Aw. She autographed my ticket. She was like, just, like-- And then she was just so cool-- That's such a-- --and so sweet. And-- it just was like, She's extraordinary in that. She's unbelievable. I just believe that HOST: So at an early Emily, you confirmed that Were there any other moments like that or were improvised? Every moment. Probably every single scene We were kind of making We were working without Yeah. But we like that. Right? I love-- If she sees a net, she No, I won't come out. I don't want that safety. She likes the danger, though. You got to have You gotta put your feet You don't-- I mean, it's the Stakes. --stakes. But when, you're doing a movie [LAUGHS] But I think when you're and like, I think the funniest I think that I had this where he's pushing interesting new space for it. And to see how-- I think he understands-- as well-- that if things have you're gonna create I think some of our been like watching paint dry. But some of it was cool. Bit like my end Like your end Yeah. I think if you're willing at a scene and stretch happens, that you could find in it. And Emily's a bit like You don't the jokes are Dang, until she Yes. They're like, oh, damn, she's Lurking around. It's too late. You wannna go to Drink a spicy margarita. Make some bad decisions. Yes. HOST: Spicy margs. Spicy margs? No? Love them. My friend Johnny actually It's his nickname knows I love a spicy margarita. That's why we put Oh, is that where - Yeah, I think we-- That was a bit That was a Stunty Blunty add That was an add. I can't remember what I was like, maybe we have a spicy margarita. Yeah, exactly, and And then the way-- the way you then said, Well, because you Spicy margarita. We know you. You know you get You know you put a [LAUGHTER] No. I hate the word rim. HOST: Spicy margs aren't your-- I don't like it either. As soon as I said it, I was I don't like that HOST: What's your go-to drink? Ooh. Yeah, I like a spicy margarita. But they don't like What about a beer, just a Yeah, like a-- like a Tony Robbins - What's a Tony Robbins? Oh, my God. [LAUGHTER] A good Andre the Those are not real You should open a bar. You should. It is fun to like and make up names and see If people have-- 'Cause they want to act They don't. I digress. What was the question? - Really? - This-- this isn't gonna work. But it's not what I'm-- [GUITAR RIFF]