How do I take my coffee? Well in a various number of ways. Black, filter with no sugar. I love oat milk. I enjoy really fruity Thick spoon of brown, Everybody can take it as long as they're drinking it. Humanity consumes half a every year. That's almost double what And yet, coffee production antiquated industries Climate pressures like drought, heat and blight are affecting food producers in different ways all over the world. As climate change becomes In the past year, hundreds of thousands of acres of coffee And with 90% of coffee in developing countries, those least responsible for global warming are facing the greatest What's at stake are the livelihoods of around 125 million people. Because if we're being that cannot hold on much Here we are located in Acatenango. I am the fifth generation The farm has been in our family for a little bit more than 130 years. We have the good altitude to all across the region. The soil is volcanic soil. It's very rich, very new soils which are really good for coffee. This region that was of coffee, now is producing less and less because producing coffee has On our right, we can see that which are the traditional in Central America. Unfortunately, these type by leaf rust, which and then we cannot produce enough coffee or good quality coffee. I think we are seeing the right now. I mean, it's gonna get worse for sure but we are facing those problems like, sometimes too much rain, Unfortunately, we cannot or two or five. It will take at least 10 years with these varieties to a lot of things. The lack of investment The industry has to find There's a very specific region where coffee can be grown and This is a region that's of the equator and 30 And virtually all the is grown in this latitudinal belt. This is the area of the Earth where the crop is most easily grown. But it's not to say the Coffee is the canary in As with so many other coffee is very finicky. It's called a Goldilocks crop, so it requires just the and specific mild temperatures to thrive. It likes distinct diurnal rhythms, so differentials between day and night. All these different factors help the plant develop quality and flavor. Once you throw off those conditions in which coffee has it throws off flavor, it and fertility of the crop. Breeding new varieties is for safeguarding our coffee supply. One of the biggest problems of this crop, lies in its lack of diversity. We rely on just two species. Arabica is the most highly produced bean. It's smoother, sweeter flavor by most coffee drinkers. But arabica is increasingly It's low tolerance to rising temperatures and susceptibility to disease have made it particularly vulnerable. Robusta, as the name suggests, in the environment and so it's But it's strong bitter flavor almost twice that of arabica, into instant coffee, a process which weakens Breeding hybrids of these two varietals can offer short term relief for farmers, but it's not a long-term solution that can ensure the survival of coffee. For that, we'll need a If we are looking for the that will be able to and lower rainfalls, where would we look? So in the old world in there are 130 wild coffee species. Of those 130 species, 60% are Our number one priority called stenophylla coffee. This is a coffee species from West Africa and peaked many people's interest because it's said to In fact, some botanists, the flavor was superior to arabica. The other attribute, and one in terms of climate change that it will grow in It will grow at nearly higher than arabica coffee. The problem with stenophylla, was the fact that we couldn't actually and moreover, the farmers about this coffee. So we went back to somewhere where we knew it had been collected in 1954 and we found a single plant, which was exciting, but need to reinvigorate a We went further east, and after many hours searching, we found the healthy And from those plants, we'll in an attempt to reinvigorate in Sierra Leone. No longer term, the will be developed to look some of its issues, and work on those to produce a crop that's not only delicious, but also has the for farmers to make a meaningful profit. Throughout history, breeding new crops that are better adapted to environments has been the most accessible, affordable and trusted solution. But traditional breeding has Now technology is being used alongside conventional against our global crop crisis. The genome of coffee was There's this whole new to innovators who are just understand the coffee genome but enhance its ability to So to breed a new variety of coffee it can take 20, 25, 30 years sometimes and in order to meet sometimes 30 years is just too much. Gene editing has the benefit the same differences or the in coffee, but much faster. People have been studying plants and even coffee for several decades now. What they were missing the change very efficiently, it's basically a tool in a very specific location. Robusta, in many ways it's One of the reasons for that is that it has a much higher caffeine content than the more gentle arabica coffee. So using gene editing, we are able to shut down some of the genes associated with the production of Another thing that we're the high solubility of robusta. In the process of taking coffee beans and making them into instant coffee there's an industrial process and turn them into instant coffee. Through gene editing, we are able to make that and by doing the extraction more gently we are able to maintain and health qualities of coffee. So eventually our vision will be that it will have but also the end product to the kind of the natural coffee that we like and consume on a daily basis. This plant, two years ago within then did the gene edit. And from there, slowly we've and growing it until it's this size. So we are able to create a within weeks or months today and perhaps a plant like can be the first of its kind to have a big chunk of the Coffee is an incredibly important crop. Coffee is the most consumed There's about 125 million on coffee for their livelihood. So that's more than 1% of humanity. I think moving into the future, in the need to improve towards different diseases. And if you go to today to a coffee farm, the farmer will usually the need to increase water use sufficiency to fight diseases like coffee leaf rust, or coffee borer beetle. These are more complex to low caffeine coffee. And we benefit for now from and we feel that we have now these very, very One of many reasons that the has been so slow to modernize in this colonial structure. The wealthy consumers of the global north, consuming a product produced in the far less wealthy global south. So if we do not empower the producers, if we don't create more with the roasters and consumers there won't be an opportunity to adapt and modernize and that's got to happen. The traditional way of selling coffee has been producing coffee and just selling to local exporters that they will be selling around the world, without or without us knowing Since 2006, after finishing with my father and that was the first year that we have a direct trade in the US and since then 100% of our harvest to roasters across the world directly. This gave us a lot of stability, which in coffee is very rare. Stability in prices for many, many years, more than 10 years of the same for us as farmers. We just finished the season, to all our buyers, but in we have to do the cupping We have to taste every day is like around 120 samples. We have to roast them, we we evaluate the coffees goes to Europe or it's or it's going to Japan, Korea, depending on the flavor and Cupping allows producers to establish the different characteristics and helps to determine the and all important cup score. Points are given for qualities but to be regarded as a specialty coffee, the score has to be above As specialty coffee it's driving more direct and roasters. This not only empowers farmers financially but also gives roasters access I'm sat here in our roastery in as a raw product and we to package it and send We're focusing largely on coffees that have been sourced directly that we know personally, that we've discussed pricing with, we've discussed processing with. And then our job is to turn into a premium product by using and then getting that out as if it was a product with full traceability and not just a generic product By focusing more on direct of the price that we've but also how much of that Being able to have about their costs, their challenges and how much they think they just helps to ensure that those producers get paid the money that We've spoken to quite over the years that we've and every year they do There are many different factors to harvest more coffee from a tree and environment is definitely Too much rain, too little rain, frosts, bad weather conditions or very unreliable unstable weather conditions on how much a coffee farmer These environmental challenges on the global cost of coffee and of course the amount can make from their coffee. If they are only able to they somehow do need which will generally mean I don't think consumers fully appreciate how much climate change could I think that's something in its infancy at the moment. Climate change is a topic all the time and we see in terms of flooding, forest fires but I think we're still at fully understanding the that could have on coffee producers. The coffee industry has change the lives of many coffee if people are willing More and more coffee toward a wine and vineyard model, where educated consumers can choose their varietals of coffee throughout a range of prices from farms and brands This can empower producers We need to increasingly that when they pay higher prices for these artisanal single origin direct trade coffee brands, toward the coffee producer and empowering that producer to their production, to adopt technologies and to build more resilient operations. I think the most important as humanity, recognizing The rate of change of the environment and the needs in the that there is a lot of room to kind of catch up and to grow coffee 10, 20 and provide this, you know, of livelihood for 125 million people but also a beverage that The challenge is massive, we People rightfully want to eat better. I'm not sure that we will of saying, you know we want to use only I think that humanity all the tools that it has in its arsenal in order to to make sure that In just the last year we saw vineyards and maple syrup stands and almond orchards and tomato farms all succumb We're seeing in all these on food production, not just devastation but also alongside that, the This movement is growing what sustainable production looks like. The solution is gonna require a blend of traditional sustainable farming methods and radically new technologies. Experimenting at the farm is key. If we don't experiment different ways of planting coffee, we're gonna be stuck in the past. Coffee is in our blood, is in our culture and this is not the greatest business but it's the only way that The land is adapted to so it's always risky, but for us to keep producing coffee.