- Do you bring this trick out at parties? - Oh no. It's a terrible party trick. Here we go. 3.141592653589793 - This is Grant Gussman. He watched an old video of mine about how we think that there are two systems of thought. System two is the conscious And system one is subconscious. Fast and automatic. To explore how these systems Grant decided to memorize - Three eight four four six... - Then he just kept going. He has now memorized 23,000 digits of pi in preparation to challenge - .95493038196. That's 200. (Derek laughs) - That's amazing. I have wanted to make a video This is Magnus Carlsen, the five time world chess champion. He's being shown chessboards and asked to identify the - This looks an awful (playful music) - Whoops. - Okay. This is the 24th (chuckling) - Now I'm going to play And stop me when you recognize the game. And if you can tell me who Okay. (playful music) I'm sure you've seen this opening before. - Okay. It's gonna be Anand. (laughs) - Against? - Zapata. - How can he do this? It seems like superhuman ability. Well decades ago, scientists wanted to know what makes experts like Do they have incredibly high IQ's, much better spatial bigger short term memory spans? Well, it turns out that as a group, chess masters are not exceptional But one experiment showed how their performance was In 1973, William Chase and Herbert Simon recruited three chess players, a master, an A player, who's an advanced amateur, and a beginner. A chess board was set positioned as they might be during a game. And each player was allowed to look at the board for five seconds. Then they were asked to replicate the setup from memory on a second board in front of them. The players could take as many five second peeks as they needed to get their board to match. From just the first look, the master could recall The A player could recall eight, and the beginner only four. The master only needed as the A player to get But then the researchers with pieces in random positions that would never arise in a real game. And now, the chess master performed no better than the beginner. After the first look, all players, regardless of rank could remember the location The data are clear. Chess experts don't have but they have better memory specifically for chess positions that The implication is what makes is that they have seen lots And over that time, their brains have learned patterns. So rather than seeing individual pieces at individual positions, they see a smaller number of This is called 'chunking'. What we have stored in long-term memory allows us to recognize complex For example, you recognize this as pi rather than a string of or meaningless squiggles for that matter. - There's a wonderful which is three zero one seven three. Which to me, means Stephen which is the record back in 2016. So three oh one seven three. - At its core, expertise Magnus Carlsen recognizes chess positions the same way we recognize faces. And recognition leads If you see an angry face, you have a pretty good idea of what's gonna come next. Chess masters recognize board positions and instinctively know the best move. - Most of the time, I know what to do. I don't have to figure it out. - To develop the long takes a long time. 10,000 hours is the rule of thumb popularized by Malcolm Gladwell, but 10,000 hours of practice There are four additional And in areas where these it's impossible to become an expert. So the first one is many Tennis players hit hundreds Chess players play thousands of games before they're grand masters and physicists solve Each one gets feedback. The tennis player sees whether each shot clears The chess player either And the physicist gets the But some professionals don't with the same sorts of problems. Political scientist, Philip who make their living on political and economic trends. This included journalists, foreign policy specialists, economists, and intelligence analysts. Over two decades, he peppered them with questions like Would George Bush be re-elected? Would apartheid in South Would Quebec secede from Canada? And would the .com bubble burst? In each case, the pundits of several possible outcomes. And by the end of the study, Tetlock had quantified 82,361 predictions. So, how did they do? Pretty terribly. These experts, most of whom performed worse than if they had just assigned equal probabilities In other words, people who spend their time and earned their living produce poorer predictions Even in the areas they knew best, experts were not significantly The problem is, most of the events they have They haven't had the experience of going through these events or very similar ones many times before. Even presidential elections and each one in a slightly So we should be wary of experts who don't have repeated (upbeat music) The next requirement One that contains regularities that make it at least A gambler betting at the may have thousands of repeated experiences with the same event. And for each one, they get clear feedback in the form of whether they win or lose, but you would rightfully because the environment is low validity. A roulette wheel is essentially random, so there are no In 2006, legendary investor, Warren Buffet offered to bet a million dollars that he could pick an investment that would outperform Wall over a 10 year period. Hedge funds are pools of money that are actively managed and most experienced They use advanced techniques leverage, and derivatives in an attempt to provide outsized returns. And consequently, they One person took Buffet up on the bet; Ted Seides of Protege Partners. For his investment, he Well actually, five funds of hedge funds. So in total, a collection of Warren Buffet took a He picked the most basic, boring investment imaginable; a passive index fund that just tracks the weighted value of the 500 biggest public companies in America, the S&amp;P 500. They started the bet on January 1st, 2008, and immediately things did It was the start of the and the market tanked. But the hedge funds could and even profit from market falls. So they lost some value, but not as much as the market average. The hedge funds stayed ahead for the next three years, but by 2011, the S&amp;P 500 had pulled even. And from then on, it wasn't even close. The market average surged leaving the hedge funds in the dust. After 10 years, Buffet's to the hedge funds' 36%. Now the market performance was not unusual over this time. At eight and a half percent annual growth, it nearly matches the stock So why did so many with years of industry experience, research at their fingertips, and big financial incentives to perform, fail to beat the market? Well because stocks are a Over the short term, stock price movements are So the feedback, although doesn't actually reflect anything about the quality of the decision making. It's closer to a roulette Over a 10 year period, around 80% of all actively fail to beat the market average. And if you look at longer time periods, under performance rises to 90%. And before you say, &quot;Well that means 10% of consider that just through random chance, some people would beat the market anyway. Portfolios picked by have been shown to do just that. And in addition to luck, there are nefarious practices from insider trading to Now I don't mean to say there Warren Buffet himself is a clear example. But the vast majority of stock pickers and active investment managers, do not demonstrate expert performance because of the low validity Brief side note, if we know that stock picking will usually yield worse and that what active is rarely compensated for then why is so much money invested in individual stocks, mutual funds, and hedge funds? Well let me answer that with a story. There was an experiment carried where there's a red that can each light up. 80% of the time, the And 20% of the time the but randomly. So you can never be sure And the task for the subject, either rat or human, is to guess beforehand by pressing it. For the rat, if they guess right, And if they guess wrong, The rat quickly learns to and accept the 80% win percentage. Humans on the other hand, usually press the green button. But once in a while, they try to predict when And as a result, they guess We have a hard time And we see patterns everywhere, So we try to beat the average But when there is no pattern, Even when there are patterns, you need timely feedback And YouTube knows this, which is why within the first hour after posting a video, they tell you how its performance compares to your last 10 videos. There's even confetti fireworks when the video is number one. I know it seems like a silly thing, but you have no idea how and how much YouTuber effort is spent chasing this To understand the difference between immediate and delayed feedback, psychologist Daniel Kahneman contrasts the experiences of Anesthesiologists work and get feedback straight away. Is the patient unconscious With this immediate feedback, it's easier for them to learn the regularities of their environment. Radiologists, on the other hand, don't get rapid feedback if they get it at all. This makes it much harder Radiologists typically correctly diagnose breast cancer from x-rays Delayed feedback also for college admissions officers After admitting someone to college, or hiring someone at a big company, you may never, or only much This makes it harder to in ideal candidates. In one study, Richard Melton tried to predict the grades of freshmen at the end of their first year of college. A set of 14 counselors interviewed each student for 45 minutes to an hour. They also had access several aptitude tests, and a four page personal statement. For comparison, Melton that used as input, only a fraction of the information. Just high school grades Nevertheless, the than 11 of the 14 counselors. Melton's study was reported alongside over a dozen similar results across a variety of other domains, from predicting who would violate parole to who'd succeed in pilot training. If you've ever been denied admission to an educational institution, or turned down for a job, it feels like an expert has and decided that you don't I was rejected twice from film school and twice from a drama program. So it's comforting to know that the gatekeepers at these institutions aren't great predictors of future success. So if you're in a valid environment, and you get repeated experience with clear, timely will you definitely become an expert in 10,000 hours or so? The answer unfortunately is no. Because most of us want to be comfortable. For a lot of tasks in life, we can become competent in a Take driving a car for example, initially it's pretty challenging. It takes up all of system two. Bu after 50 hours or so System one takes over, and you can do it without After that, more time spent driving doesn't improve performance. If you wanted to keep improving, you would have to try driving like new terrain, higher Now I have played guitar for 25 years, but I'm not an expert because It's easier and more fun. But in order to learn, you have to be practicing pushing beyond your comfort zone. You have to use a lot of concentration and methodically repeatedly attempt things you aren't good at. - You can practice and exactly as it's written, but at just such a speed that you have to think about and know exactly where you are and what your fingers are doing and what it feels like. - This is known as deliberate practice. And in many areas professionals don't engage so their performance doesn't improve. In fact, sometimes it declines. If you're experiencing chest pain and you walk into a hospital, would you rather the or someone with 20 years experience? Researchers have found that diagnostic skills of medical students increase with their which makes sense. The more cases you've seen with feedback, the better you are at spotting patterns. But this only works up to a point. When it comes to rare diseases doctors with 20 years at diagnosing them than recent graduates. And that's because they those rare diseases in a long time. So they're less able to Only after a refresher course, could doctors accurately And you can see the same effect in chess. The best predictor of skill level, is not the number of games but the number of hours dedicated to serious solitary study. Players spend thousands of hours alone learning chess theory, studying their own games And they play through compositions, which are puzzles designed to help you recognize tactical patterns. In chess, as in other areas, it can be challenging to force yourself to practice deliberately. And this is why coaches and They can recognize your weaknesses and assign tasks to address them. To become an expert, you have to practice in the uncomfortable zone, attempting the things True expertise is amazing to watch. To me, it looks like magic, but it isn't. At its core, expertise is recognition. And recognition comes of highly structured information stored in long-term memory. To build that memory, a valid environment, many and thousands of hours When those criteria are met, human performance is astonishing. And when it's not, you get people we think of as experts who actually aren't. (techno sound) If you want to become a STEM expert, you have to actively And that's what you can do with Brilliant, the sponsor of this video. Check out this course on computer science, where you can uncover the optimal strategy for finding a key in a room. And you quickly learn how your own strategy can be Logic is another great course that I find challenges me mentally. You go from thinking to actually getting it. And if it feels difficult, It means you're getting pushed This is how Brilliant And if you ever get stuck, a helpful hint is always close at hand. So don't fall into the trap in doing what you know how to do. Build in the habit of being uncomfortable, and regularly learning something new. That is the way to lifelong So I invite you to check out the courses over at Brilliant.org/veritasium, and I bet you will find something there that you wanna learn. Plus if you click through right now, Brilliant are offering 20% off an annual premium subscription to the first 200 people to sign up. So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.