- There isn't really a very What is the difference between and something that isn't alive? You might think this is a rather but in fact, it's not so easy to answer. Should be said, I'm by to have considered this question. And if you look in Wikipedia you often get rather complex answers. And I wanted a go answering what I think is one of the And the way I approached it was by exploring five of My name is Paul Nurse. I'm a geneticist and cell biologist, and I've just written a book- it's my first book, and The cell is really critical because it's the simplest entity that expresses characteristics of life. It can grow, it can And really, all living things- myself, a plant, an insect- is either a single cell or made up of groups of Most people are not excited by yeast. I have to say, I am excited by yeast. They just think, &quot;Well, and wine and bread maybe,&quot; but actually, it's very good in all sorts of more like ourselves. In my laboratory, we found a human gene that was similar to the yeast gene that controls the reproduction And it was clear that that human gene could completely substitute and control the reproduction as it could control the If the same process was controlling the as controls the reproduction then this means this was extremely ancient because yeast and human beings diverged back in the depths of time, deep time, somewhere between 1,000 million years ago, and 1,500 million years ago. This meant that every other every plant, every was controlled by the same mechanism. A monk called Gregor Mendel was interested in looking at the genetics of peas- and what he did is he with different characteristics. And he counted the that were produced from these pea plants. And he began to notice there were very clear ratios: famous ratios like three to one, and nine to three, to three to one. And he realized that maybe what was responsible for as sort of unitary particle which could be passed down But it was the first evidence that there was something which The idea of evolution by probably the most Charles Darwin, who went around the world and collected animals came up with the idea of He speculated that all living things have hereditary material; that if this hereditary that resulted in the living and if it was advantageous in the environment in then it would eventually take This has been a revolutionary change in our understanding in biology because what it leads to is a but without having a designer. Life is made up of There are many thousands going on all the time in a little cell. Chemistry is responsible the reproduction of that cell, for its ability to capture One of the ways in which cells can carry out all of this chemistry is that the cell is and lots of little compartments, and it's compartmentation that allows all these different chemistry to occur simultaneously I want to emphasize how fantastic that is. I want you to imagine there's thousands of chemical reactions, all very different going on all the time very, very close to each other. So life is chemistry, but life because life has to Let's take what I said about chemistry and all those different compartments: That can only occur if there's to keep the whole thing coordinated. Let's say a gene is making a substance, and it wants to keep that As that substance increases, and when it decreases, But you only really understand there's information The cell is measuring and then using that to determine whether the gene should be If we take DNA, we could understand the structure of DNA in terms of how one base but it only makes biological sense when seen to be a digital Life is and can only It permeates every aspect Putting all these five ideas together, I think some principles emerge. Living things are bounded The bounded entity is the chemical and informational machine. And then critically, that in a bounded entity that determines how it works, a system which has variability, and therefore, the whole thing can evolve by natural selection. And that means that the living Purpose to be better adapted in the life state it finds itself, and so we can evolve living things from one type into another. And for me, that bounds that emphasizes the core - Get smarter, faster with videos from the To learn even more from the get Big Think+ for your business.