Somewhere in northern Mali. A column of 116 vehicles One of the largest convoys In these tanks and containers, all the equipment including to fight and survive. Jocelyn is a non-commissioned officer. He is the chief engineer of the convoy. There, in fact, the ground, it's really sandy. There we can really ask ourselves The track is however Punctures In the middle of the convoy, A radio call requisition the mechanic Echo ten. Bring yourself up to the silting Echo ten. It's a tank truck His weight, Only one solution... There I will shoot it A stationary machine Come on, let's hurry. He becomes easy prey who sow A helicopter rises to detect from the air Step aside ! First attempt. The rear wheels Stop stop! Stopped ! You have to keep You don't have to Once it's gone, Second attempt. That's how it is. Mission accomplished, Echo ten, There, without your intervention, We might have lasted The deadline might have exploded It remains before heading to camp four to five days Four thousand five hundred soldiers which covers five countries. Mauritania, Niger and Chad. The mission of this force ensure the safety of the population Terrorist Armed Groups Commitment Two pomegranates. ...we see most often in contact with the opponent. To wage this war, must be able to count Accommodation. I show you my house, Potable water. That holds Mechanical. That's it, Operating room. There we find because below it is unstuck. Feed, maintenance. This is a room to change? Or freight. So many missions weapons, support You, as soon as the wheel is free, They are Without them, no supplies, On Operation Barkhane, take care of the support Of these little-known professions and often life I have a visual on the motorcycle Their work is a constant challenge due to the climate These are the chicom impacts. The shells that are fired and who fall Since 2013, Seven of them belonged For three weeks and during one of the most never done we shared who work behind the scenes of war. Gao military base, Here park about It is from this camp, that they carry out their actions It's 11 a.m. this morning. In 48 hours, a caravan of 116 vehicles The biggest convoy on desert tracks The mission of these men fuel and food, On the ranks, conveyors, All soldiers For the convoy... Ladder Convoy of Gathered Rams To the convoy, at my command rest! This captain is leading the operation. The convoy will be composed It will be fresh, On the ground, Then Gao, then The journey from the start the advanced base of Tessalit near six hundred kilometers A split in the convoy is planned Forty vehicles other side Estimated travel time according to failures with the risk with terrorist groups. The faces are serious. These logistics soldiers for the most dangerous mission From Gao to Anefis we will have to and then we will have the Ansarili group. Those are who know perfectly and who know very well and what we are going to do. The IED threat, this is the main threat. IED, i.e. artisanal mining or which is triggered As these pictures show during the conflicts in Afghanistan other wars, using the same terrorist methods. Mode of action number two, brutal attack, valued by FDI, either with an SVB IED, a suicide bomber. Another risk, Everyone has this type of attack in mind. which took place three weeks While on patrol, managed to hit this French tank, A risk that Mathieu, want to avoid at all costs. He is responsible for driving If a vehicle is approaching OK ? The seers must put themselves The ultimate case, you need a neutralization shot, It has to be stopped. Special vigilance In the cloud of dust, a 4X4 took advantage of the cloud All are focused There are risks which are neither minimized nor maximized. They are presented with the reports We know what we are getting into, and we have the means so don't worry Since it can happen to anyone At the same time, In outdoor operation, this is the refectory. Enjoy your meal. When they are not in operation it's usual About 1300 people Serve close right in the middle Is it good guys? If the refectory the kitchens under tarpaulins are mounted powered by These are containers that which unfold, which come together, There, we glued two, one to the other, to be able to cook In the kitchen, civilian cooks Turkey tournedos, A large part for recipes It reminds us of the country It's a little corner of our house. A little corner of France, We went up to 45 degrees. There, since they work it will continue The constraint. We got used to it It took three weeks Now we get used to it. Even in the morning when we get up it says Faced with this weather, is crucial to prevent Today is Wednesday, Every week, are routed This truck is coming where his goods transited. He traveled 1200 kilometers, If the western region of the country terrorist attacks At the reception, Jean-Louis. Its good, Jean-Louis is a civilian. He works for the commissary of the armies, a public service provider That's some good stuff. At unloading, French soldiers Jean-Louis has an eye on everything. We take The quality of the fruit, the consistency. At the market you sort your fruits. It's the same here, unlike A spoiled fruit, but a crate, In this truck, the equivalent of a week's consumption Ivory Coast, South Africa, these goods come from everywhere. There you have the grapes You see the conditioning, At the Gao camp, Here I manage everything for fruit feeding, All specific deliveries she can ask soccer balls, we order and have it delivered. The big challenge of the day, The delivery of the fee It's okay, loading. Ten tons of products Its good. With an obligation, as quickly as possible. A challenge Today, Here is the hive. You don't have to stay The fresh products, we can't play Malian soldiers and civilians give themselves up If there is a break in the cold chain that's all the supply In less than an hour, everything is tidy Yes, it's a challenge, The proof, afterwards, another job begins. The other job who will deliver at advanced bases The other goods mechanical parts or ammunition, overland in the convoy. It's 5 a.m. the day begins Like every morning go on a mission For others, including units it's sports time. He already does In an hour, It will be too hot. Seven hours, and on this eve mechanics For this trip So you have to try It goes around everyone Things are going well ? In operation, Are you okay, are you okay? For good reason. In fact here, we can not We have hands and since here I prefer to check than to find myself going Everyone prepares Nothing should be forgotten. On the track, Did he really fart? Give it to me. equipment, people, it's gonna be tough. The chief mechanic This is his second stay He has already participated He knows the danger, I just want to tell myself that in fact there, There, I don't have time There, I take care to leave, check them, see what we can not end up ten kilometers away, a rubbing belt, You try to anticipate everything. Yes, maximum In any event, You will have to dig, you will have to pull. It will be hot, we will be thirsty. It's not gonna be Comfortable ? No need for comfort. A convoy is a bit precious material, do you know how much Sixty tires. A very useful precaution. That's what can happen So here it is, the land of Mali, Contrary to popular belief, the sand can be and sharp rocks In Mali, the climate for men Consequently, the workshops They are 105 mechanics Every week these are on average 60 vehicles who go to the garage for but always urgent. A damaged tank Give me Lambert, a 25-year-old mechanic sergeant, His work That's it, it's unlocked. Failure is not allowed? Nope, it is always fixable, We have to get there, because we don't have Necessarily, In four months, that's a quarter who will pass Once In operation, Lambert that when they are but with fewer resources. Here it is again In France, we have a little more tools, Here is the material With the tools that are broken, to be replaced only in France. How do you do ? We manage System D, we always find a way. Lambert should have been but a month ago he got hurt Do you mind missing this? Yes, it's the biggest but things did It's another The other is Jocelyn, but he too He hurt himself Before leaving, I did not see an obstacle, my shin kicked, suddenly I had a small opening The mechanic consults Amelie is 28 years old. She is a captain and a doctor. So how is it evolving? We see that The wound is almost filled. We will continue and then it should go on fine His injury dates back a month, but because the wound is superinfected. Yes, it was fun It was a wound that deserved, Occasionally, to be able to take good care of them, The great fear and be debouched no one really wants it. They hide us Indeed, the mechanic waited a week before going I've had we will put That is not possible? No, that is not possible. It's a mission It is a beautiful mission. A great adventure. There is one day left to prepare In outdoor operation, in OPEX mechanics work So, to take a breather they built open every evening A giant screen. There is even table football, without forgetting the bar You wouldn't have a hundred by any chance? This week, Here, you pay in local currency. Eight hundred CFA francs Here we do not make a profit, It allows us near where we actually live. It doesn't seem like anything, but the meal offers If we can't breathe we might not hold out. We are still here four months It can be long. If we can't breathe Today, Lambert is 26 years old. Thanks. A birthday Yes, we are far from the family so, I've already paid for a tour. There we demand another, of course. Another one, Beer, per day and per person. Sunday morning, 6 a.m. it's D-Day, That's it, let's go! They are six women in the convoy. For Amelie, the captain doctor, His state of mind. serene, The doc like In these boxes, energy supplements We know it's going to be very hot, there's prevention is preferred to cure. We know that if they will cause fewer problems The heat will be the enemy Before departure, Colonel addresses his men. A thing is that you all come home The only recommendation it is on the one hand to yourself, what we have done so far, it is to be able to react correctly thereupon, I wish you we will follow you from Gao. See you soon ! For the convoy, Let's go ! The 63 military vehicles Each gear has Come on guys! Jocelyn is in the middle of the column. On board, This is their first operation If there is any concern, the one who is tired, There are no heroes, I don't want The guy is tired Its good ? When leaving the camp, of Malian civil enterprises join the convoy These are a total of 117 vehicles and desert heat. Fortunately, There is no specific route. Drivers must follow the tracks The track is traced by this vehicle, A curious MadMax-style machine capable of detecting a mine Ahead of the convoy, Track check, It is to avoid The vehicle passed We respect this trace We can say that Basically, we can say Wearing a helmet, and the bulletproof vest The soldiers, we speak little, on an explosive device I have already experienced it, Not to me personally. The vehicle behind me. What happened ? In fact, he passed After that, there were no deaths. They did well, It makes you think ? We are a little more careful. We know where Only authorized to deviate from the tracks, which secure like that of Jeremiah, non-commissioned officer at 515e logistic force regardless of I have a visual on the motorcycle Jeremy's tank surmounted by a camera He can observe without exposing yourself In the desert, For this reason, Like this motorcycle we never know It's kind of anywhere. In the middle of the desert in the end you while there is No, you really have to The instructions are precise. No vehicle should approach Don't go too fast, slow down. Advance, advance... I did not aim There, to the left of the track, a child who is waiting. This child may be a doorbell, It is regularly In certain places, it's weird to see He has nothing in his hands? He doesn't have a camera. We see that they have or a phone inform the terrorists its number of vehicles. Especially to tell them or sensitive vehicles. For this time, Resumption of the track But a few minutes later... Stop convoy! Barely ten kilometers traveled, a civilian truck For this type of incident, Chartered vehicles Every stop Florian, the young mechanic, must check that no mine is not found The young man is a little tense, You go without stress, You don't have to try It's not everywhere. Its good ? Florian has no choice, I put myself in their place. It's the first time I know the context is difficult, not to search He just has to do his job To secure the perimeter, They call it the 5/25. He leaves the vehicle, he is five meters, It creates a safety bubble. At least we are sure We didn't find anything While Florian performs and scans the attentive ground upstream of the convoy, Jeremie went to contact Its objective, to estimate 20, 30? No, 15 minutes. Fifteen minutes for a truck They are impressive they don't need much not even a candle. They do everything with a simple crowbar As long as the heavyweight No way to leave the truck An unknown cargo from Jeremy. It can be anything, spare parts, really everything. It doesn't matter to Jeremiah, its mission is to enable whoever she is, He gets up, shall we go? In 30 or 40 minutes, They removed the wheel, On Jocelyn's side, Resumption of progress. For Florian, the young mechanic, Florian it's not easy the first one, We'll say I follow the advice Just left, new radio message, This time a puncture Jocelyn and her two young to deal with the failure. They will roll There I will have to get out Due to the number of trucks the convoy stretches The vehicle to be repaired the escorting lieutenant of the convoy. Ok, you put one under. In addition to Jocelyn's truck, the Lo track. Come on, hurry up guys! The truck is equipped with a crane There, we will lift it, there. The chief mechanic, repair Come on start So he activates his young teammates. You, as soon as The other will investigate behind. logistics soldiers and ensure their own safety. Which is certain, If we show signs sooner or later, we will be struck. We stay as much as possible. It keeps away people who would be Okay, finished. The desert, put the vehicles During the day, and punctures Everytime, the mechanics won't take more A real achievement where the heat reaches 50 degrees. It's 5 p.m. Back with Jeremy 20 For the establishment of the BOAT, I don't have enough staff. The BOAT, Jeremy's role and soldiers in good order. Ok, there inside, Not easy in the middle of the desert, We have the impression It's because of the civilian trucks. You have about fifty Do not worry. Go on ! If everything goes well, The camp is like Except that instead of standing in circles, inside which At each corner of the square, The soldiers set up hammocks for some, cots Amelie the doc prepares We become rustic. Is there any fun in that? Yes, it's a bit of an adventure but we're getting a little out of his zone It makes you discover Amelie is 28 years old, were funded by the military. This is his first outdoor operation. the OPEX, At the beginning, when we started So after all these years, after nine years. Today, Yes, the day was quiet, we had no particular concern We, the less we work finally, the better for everyone. Probably we will have Small wounds to heal, The medical office, Amelie is assisted by Yohan, those, Among the patients, Jocelyn. Even in a convoy, it benefits from It's okay, it's not anymore It's a lot The most frequent pathologies, small cuts on the hands, finally really common care. a bit of dehydration, all that. Ultimately, it will be especially within the framework Fortunately We are rather the cabinet A general practice Exactly and shielded. It's all good ? It's all good. You're welcome. Today, There are still four Two days for the 40 vehicles At the same time, 350 kilometers away destination Three hundred French are confined here. Their camp adjoins Kidal is a small isolated base are more rudimentary than in Gao. Here, few permanent buildings. Most military For four months, by daily patrols and the hunt logistics soldiers Supplies, from Gao and convoys. The base support gentleman Aged 49, this former Do you have mosquito nets? On the base, Didier is the one we toilets in the laundromat, food supply to everyday equipment. Ok, that's good, are you? there it works, Here there is a trick, This morning is a problem This is a room to change? It's the ideal temperature this morning. What was not Is she fresh? Not fresh, She is pleasant. In any case during the summer, maybe winter, No need to heat. Absolutely not. It is not useful, This facility bathroom trailer in flexible and plasticized structures. In each cabin, everything is thought out Like these compartments. We can put here, you put here dirty business and shoes down. It is well sealed, it allows you Once the shower is done, we are very dry. Supply is the job of the water boys. They pump then supply the 26 tanks and flexible tanks Very precious water. Behind the scenes, Didier must ensure on this hostile terrain. Melee troops, we must not When they come back here let them see our work. It is necessary that when they turn on the tap, This is our mission, it is that everything It's a little To support is also to nourish. In the Kidal camp, Soldiers live in section The food, they get it back Here, no shopping carts, Pierre, a young master corporal, At 9 a.m., It's the first to arrive, Then we queue That's the grocery store there. Yes that's it, The manager of this grocery store Frozen food, cans, Goods delivered once or twice a week. Have a nice day guys! It's Peter's turn to do the shopping. Potatoes, we have. Take whatever you want ? At the level of all At the pasta level it is they who tell us according to It's different. They are the ones who make the menu. No it's free. Fortunately, it's okay. It's already fun at the supermarket. If it were the same in France, Come on, have a nice day, see you soon. Thanks. In Kidal, the military paratroopers mechanics between mechanics. Each square bears a feminine first name, of the Indochina War. Nicole is the camp's medical unit. Pierre is a health assistant. He lives here with twelve colleagues To us captain? This first aid soldier, patrols and battles. In the base, for everyday injuries. The infirmary occupies remnant of this old We have air conditioning. We have several fridges to refrigerate. We have all the necessary equipment almost like in France They are not bad. How are you ? Pierre's first patient who suffers He had a boil, Does the heat do it? Yes, the heat, after with the heavy helmet, it supports Therefore, there are It lasts about fifteen and then often There you put me He tells me Looks like I quit That way we are sure Its good ? Thanks. In Kidal, Peter still has This cell of four The most important here, where we rest to be ready The air conditioning too Because given the conditions it's better to be cool That and after all and computer to escape, These four square meters are away from his wife I think it is How do we hold on? By force we are used to it. Then we have small photos, They send us letters too, It's always a pleasure, That's a little for the party with a little poem behind. &quot;Dad, a tiny little poem a big nice kiss for my darling daddy Happy Birthday Dad !&quot; It's very nice to receive this, and it allows to pass In operations, military morale Yes. How are you ? Through a digital network Peter calls his wife Kiss I love you. Do you tell him everything? We avoid saying everything, they have less to worry about. We don't say everything. something, they will know She is worried ? I think, Especially with this it worries everyone. We get used to it over time, It's a choice Me yes, absolutely but for the family, what they did and risk their lives. They did not make that choice. It's 7 p.m. it's almost time for dinner. How are you guys? what do you Pasta Bolognese. Yes, it will be fine tonight. We'll do with what we have. Tonight, it's Amandine and Anthony Rotation is done in pairs. Attention ! Obviously the pasta It changes More than in France in the regiment, in operation the barriers between officers, and non-commissioned members are fading. Thanks cook. Between the good atmosphere the days pass quickly. It passes very quickly. We always have things to do. Right, left. If we don't have a job, I never rest. It's good for me. When you are the boss who never rests, It actually allows me Didier jokes, tomorrow at 5 a.m. for a new day 200 kilometers from Kidal, He still has to before joining The most impassable 100 kilometers From now on, the level of alertness We enter the hot spot area. What is hotspot? A hot spot area is an area in the previous months. There, in the zone that we are going to cross, since the beginning of the year on a portion On the track, the carcasses They were part of a civilian convoy This shows Six trucks that were attacked and who were robbed. What the lieutenant does not say, were massacred You must try During the assignment, After, there is Do you have to believe in your luck? You don't have to bet everything on it, The true ratio, and luck Today the danger Suddenly right who darkens A wall of sand. There, there is a storm coming. A beautiful storm. They are good In a few seconds, Gently anyway. The order falls on the radio. Problem, in its path, the storm erases the traces The risk is too great. Decision is made Given the climatic conditions and the approaching night, I propose to do and not BOAT. A quarter of an hour Trucks take to the track There, in fact, we came to the point Those who are going to Kidal The convoy stops the separation zone. Tomorrow some will continue others will continue We must act quickly. It's 5:30 p.m. In a few minutes, No time to organize Parking will be compact The trucks end Another ten and they will have to The light makes them targets. At daybreak, Jeremie and Jocelyn On our side, Two days later, ten kilometers from Kidal, 61 63, do you have in progress friendly elements, After three days on the track the trucks are It is well protected, this convoy. Obliged if we want to eat, Because it is he who brings us back You see well without material, The accent of this non-commissioned officer A cast of legends. Look, what is What is that ? That's a green beret Arthur is a warrant officer Legion paratroopers. Since 2013, of the French intervention in Mali, these fighters are regularly They know the pitfalls They distrust everything. our enemy, He knows the terrain better. Today, he is maybe Well, we can't know. Here you have to be It's 24 hours a day, The convoy arrives For the last ten kilometers, Arrived at the camp, by the logistics men. Guys, we gotta line them up It's good, ok top nickel. Yes very well yes. We find Didier, support from the Kidal camp. With his team, he receives With Didier, It's military rigor, that's it. It has to be so pretty, Well, we're not going to go there It's good, it's good. Military rigor is respected. They want to know the number Yes, check anyway. Check everything, anyway, you have to In this container. That holds Depending on the assignments, it's 6000 sometimes a week, a week and a half All this morning, i.e. ten months supply. Mineral water The water comes from Burkina Faso. For that one, Burkina Faso for this one, as you can see, she comes from Mali, We dream of having French water, According to a report a soldier in overseas operation more than The Kidal camp is a target On permanent alert, the support soldiers are armed, even if their vocation That, these are That's just in case if we had to even if the situation seems calm, A shell can fall. We must remain vigilant, This is why we are sent If we have to put them on, Danger is never far away. It's 5 p.m., suddenly, The guard posts are on alert. From the French camp, impossible to see Didier heard the detonation. He came out of his square. What could it be It may be an artisanal mine that What does it do It's always impressive We try to stay calm to find out if they are not We don't get used to it? Never, I believe. Everyone's fear is to lose one of their own. We reached 300 That is the most important, We are here in Mali but the goal and meet again In the evening, Didier will learn ran over a mine, Since 2013,