Gates of Imagination presents: &quot;Nineteen eighty-four&quot; by George Part One. It was a bright cold day in April, and the his chin nuzzled into his breast in slipped quickly through the though not quickly enough to prevent a swirl The hallway smelt of boiled cabbage and old too large for indoor display, had been tacked to more than a metre wide: the face of a man of and ruggedly handsome features. Winston made for the best of times it was seldom working, and at daylight hours. It was part of the economy drive flights up, and Winston, who was thirty-nine and slowly, resting several times on the way. On each the enormous face gazed from the wall. It was one eyes follow you about when you move. BIG BROTHER Inside the flat a fruity voice was reading do with the production of pig-iron. The like a dulled mirror which formed part Winston turned a switch and the voice still distinguishable. The instrument (the but there was no way of shutting it off a smallish, frail figure, the meagreness of which were the uniform of the party. His hair was roughened by coarse soap and blunt razor blades Outside, even through the shut window-pane, little eddies of wind were whirling dust and torn and the sky a harsh blue, there seemed to be no plastered everywhere. The black-moustachio'd face one on the house-front immediately opposite. BIG the dark eyes looked deep into Winston's own. corner, flapped fitfully in the wind, alternately In the far distance a helicopter skimmed down a bluebottle, and darted away again with a curving people's windows. The patrols did not matter, Behind Winston's back the voice from the and the overfulfilment of the Ninth Three-Year simultaneously. Any sound that Winston made, picked up by it, moreover, so long as he remained commanded, he could be seen as well as heard. were being watched at any given moment. How often, on any individual wire was guesswork. It was even time. But at any rate they could plug in your wire from habit that became instinct--in the assumption except in darkness, every movement scrutinized. It was safer; though, as he well knew, even Ministry of Truth, his place of work, towered he thought with a sort of vague distaste--this itself the third most populous of the provinces memory that should tell him whether London had these vistas of rotting nineteenth-century houses, their windows patched with cardboard and their walls sagging in all directions? And the in the air and the willow-herb straggled over bombs had cleared a larger patch and there had like chicken-houses? But it was no use, he could except a series of bright-lit tableaux occurring The Ministry of Truth -- Minitrue, in Newspeak For an account of its structure and etymology any other object in sight. It was an enormous soaring up, terrace after terrace, 300 metres possible to read, picked out on its white face in &quot;War Is Peace. Freedom Is Slavery. The Ministry of Truth contained, it was said, and corresponding ramifications below. Scattered of similar appearance and size. So completely from the roof of Victory Mansions you could were the homes of the four Ministries between divided. The Ministry of Truth, which concerned and the fine arts. The Ministry of Peace, which which maintained law and order. And the for economic affairs. Their names, in Newspeak: The Ministry of Love was the really in it at all. Winston had never nor within half a kilometre of it. It was a place and then only by penetrating through steel doors, and hidden machine-gun nests. barriers were roamed by gorilla-faced guards in Winston turned round abruptly. He had set his which it was advisable to wear when facing the kitchen. By leaving the Ministry at this time of and he was aware that there was no food in bread which had got to be saved for tomorrow's of colourless liquid with a plain white label oily smell, as of Chinese rice-spirit. nerved himself for a shock, and gulped Instantly his face turned scarlet and the like nitric acid, and moreover, in swallowing it of the head with a rubber club. The next moment, the world began to look more cheerful. He took a Cigarettes&quot; and incautiously held it upright, With the next he was more successful. He went table that stood to the left of the telescreen. a bottle of ink, and a thick, quarto-sized For some reason the telescreen in the Instead of being placed, as was normal, in the it was in the longer wall, opposite the window. in which Winston was now sitting, and which, intended to hold bookshelves. By sitting in the to remain outside the range of the telescreen, so but so long as he stayed in his present position geography of the room that had suggested to But it had also been suggested by the drawer. It was a peculiarly beautiful book. Its was of a kind that had not been manufactured however, that the book was much older than that. little junk-shop in a slummy quarter of the town had been stricken immediately by an overwhelming not to go into ordinary shops ('dealing on the not strictly kept, because there were various which it was impossible to get hold of in any down the street and then had slipped inside the time he was not conscious of wanting it guiltily home in his briefcase. Even with nothing The thing that he was about to do was to open a since there were no longer any laws), but if be punished by death, or at least by twenty-five nib into the penholder and sucked it to get the seldom used even for signatures, and he had simply because of a feeling that the beautiful real nib instead of being scratched with writing by hand. Apart from very short notes, speak-write which was of course impossible into the ink and then faltered for just bowels. To mark the paper was the decisive April 4th, 1984. He sat back. A sense of complete helplessness he did not know with any certainty that this was was fairly sure that his age was thirty-nine, and but it was never possible nowadays to For whom, it suddenly occurred to him to wonder, for the unborn. His mind hovered for a moment fetched up with a bump against the Newspeak word what he had undertaken came home to him. How of its nature impossible. Either the future would listen to him: or it would be different from For some time he sat gazing stupidly at the military music. It was curious that he seemed himself, but even to have forgotten what it was past he had been making ready for this moment, and be needed except courage. The actual writing would the interminable restless monologue that had been this moment, however, even the monologue had dried unbearably. He dared not scratch it, because if he ticking by. He was conscious of nothing except the of the skin above his ankle, the blaring of the Suddenly he began writing in sheer panic, only His small but childish handwriting straggled up letters and finally even its full stops: All war films. One very good one of a ship the Mediterranean. Audience much amused by away with a helicopter after him, first you saw then you saw him through the helicopters the sea round him turned pink and he sank as audience shouting with laughter when he sank. with a helicopter hovering over it. There was a up in the bow with a little boy about three years and hiding his head between her breasts as if he putting her arms round him and comforting him the time covering him up as much as possible as him. Then the helicopter planted a 20 kilo bomb in matchwood. then there was a wonderful shot of a a helicopter with a camera in its nose must have from the party seats but a woman down in the prole fuss and shouting they didn't oughter of showed right not in front of kids it ain't until the anything happened to her nobody cares what the Winston stopped writing, partly because know what had made him pour out this stream while he was doing so a totally different to the point where he almost felt equal to writing other incident that he had suddenly decided It had happened that morning at the Ministry, It was nearly eleven hundred, and in the they were dragging the chairs out of the cubicles opposite the big telescreen, in preparation for place in one of the middle rows when two people came unexpectedly into the room. One of them was did not know her name, but he knew that she worked sometimes seen her with oily hands and carrying a novel-writing machines. She was a bold-looking a freckled face, and swift, athletic movements. A League, was wound several times round the waist of shapeliness of her hips. Winston had disliked her the reason. It was because of the atmosphere of and general clean-mindedness which she managed women, and especially the young and pretty ones. ones, who were the most bigoted adherents the amateur spies and nosers-out of unorthodoxy. of being more dangerous than most. Once when sidelong glance which seemed to pierce right into terror. The idea had even crossed his mind that it was true, was very unlikely. Still, he which had fear mixed up in it as well as The other person was a man named O'Brien, a post so important and remote that Winston had passed over the group of people round the chairs member approaching. O'Brien was a large, burly brutal face. In spite of his formidable appearance of resettling his spectacles on his nose which curiously civilized. It was a gesture which, might have recalled an eighteenth-century nobleman perhaps a dozen times in almost as many years. He he was intrigued by the contrast between O'Brien's Much more it was because of a secretly merely a hope--that O'Brien's political orthodoxy it irresistibly. And again, perhaps it was not but simply intelligence. But at any rate he had talk to if somehow you could cheat the telescreen smallest effort to verify this guess: indeed, O'Brien glanced at his wrist-watch, saw that it to stay in the Records Department until the Two same row as Winston, a couple of places away. A cubicle to Winston was between them. The girl The next moment a hideous, grinding screech, as burst from the big telescreen at the end teeth on edge and bristled the hair at the As usual, the face of Emmanuel Goldstein, the screen. There were hisses here and there among squeak of mingled fear and disgust. Goldstein long ago (how long ago, nobody quite remembered), almost on a level with Big Brother himself, activities, had been condemned to death, and programmes of the Two Minutes Hate varied from day not the principal figure. He was the primal purity. All subsequent crimes against the Party, deviations, sprang directly out of his teaching. his conspiracies: perhaps somewhere beyond paymasters, perhaps even--so it was occasionally Winston's diaphragm was constricted. He could mixture of emotions. It was a lean Jewish hair and a small goatee beard--a clever face, and senile silliness in the long thin nose, near the resembled the face of a sheep, and the voice, delivering his usual venomous attack upon the and perverse that a child should have been able to fill one with an alarmed feeling that other be taken in by it. He was abusing Big Brother, he was demanding the immediate conclusion of peace freedom of the Press, freedom of assembly, freedom revolution had been betrayed--and all this in rapid the habitual style of the orators of the Party, words, indeed, than any Party member would lest one should be in any doubt as to the reality behind his head on the telescreen there army--row after row of solid-looking men with the surface of the screen and vanished, to be rhythmic tramp of the soldiers' boots formed Before the Hate had proceeded for thirty seconds, out from half the people in the room. The and the terrifying power of the Eurasian army the sight or even the thought of Goldstein object of hatred more constant than either Eurasia one of these Powers it was generally at peace with Goldstein was hated and despised by everybody, on platforms, on the telescreen, in newspapers, ridiculed, held up to the general gaze for the this, his influence never seemed to grow to be seduced by him. A day never passed when were not unmasked by the Thought Police. He an underground network of conspirators dedicated its name was supposed to be. There were also of all the heresies, of which Goldstein was here and there. It was a book without a title. BOOK. But one knew of such things only through Book was a subject that any ordinary Party member In its second minute the Hate rose to a frenzy. and shouting at the tops of their voices in voice that came from the screen. The little and her mouth was opening and shutting like face was flushed. He was sitting very straight quivering as though he were standing up to the Winston had begun crying out 'Swine! Swine! Newspeak dictionary and flung it at the screen. the voice continued inexorably. In a lucid moment and kicking his heel violently against the rung Minutes Hate was not that one was obliged to act a to avoid joining in. Within thirty seconds any of fear and vindictiveness, a desire to kill, to seemed to flow through the whole group of people one's will into a grimacing, screaming lunatic. undirected emotion which could be switched blowlamp. Thus, at one moment Winston's hatred on the contrary, against Big Brother, the Party, heart went out to the lonely, derided heretic on a world of lies. And yet the very next instant he was said of Goldstein seemed to him to be true. At changed into adoration, and Big Brother seemed standing like a rock against the hordes of his helplessness, and the doubt that hung about enchanter, capable by the mere power of his It was even possible, at moments, to switch act. Suddenly, by the sort of violent effort the pillow in a nightmare, Winston succeeded the screen to the dark-haired girl behind him. his mind. He would flog her to death with a a stake and shoot her full of arrows like Saint at the moment of climax. Better than before, her. He hated her because she was young and pretty her and would never do so, because round her sweet it with your arm, there was only the odious The Hate rose to its climax. The voice of and for an instant the face changed into that of a of a Eurasian soldier who seemed to be advancing, and seeming to spring out of the surface of front row actually flinched backwards in their sigh of relief from everybody, the hostile figure black-moustachio'd, full of power and mysterious screen. Nobody heard what Big Brother was saying. the sort of words that are uttered in the din restoring confidence by the fact of being spoken. and instead the three slogans of the &quot;War Is Peace. Freedom Is Slavery. But the face of Big Brother seemed to persist the impact that it had made on everyone's eyeballs sandy-haired woman had flung herself forward With a tremulous murmur that sounded like 'My screen. Then she buried her face in her hands. At this moment the entire group of people of 'B-B!...B-B!'--over and over again, very 'B' and the second--a heavy, murmurous sound, of which one seemed to hear the stamp of naked as much as thirty seconds they kept it up. It of overwhelming emotion. Partly it was a sort of but still more it was an act of self-hypnosis, of rhythmic noise. Winston's entrails seemed to help sharing in the general delirium, but this filled him with horror. Of course he chanted with dissemble your feelings, to control your face, instinctive reaction. But there was a space of a his eyes might conceivably have betrayed him. And thing happened--if, indeed, it did happen. had stood up. He had taken off his spectacles nose with his characteristic gesture. But there and for as long as it took to happen Winston the same thing as himself. An unmistakable message opened and the thoughts were flowing from one you,' O'Brien seemed to be saying to him. 'I know your contempt, your hatred, your disgust. But flash of intelligence was gone, and O'Brien's That was all, and he was already uncertain never had any sequel. All that they did was that others besides himself were the enemies of conspiracies were true after all--perhaps the in spite of the endless arrests and confessions was not simply a myth. Some days he believed only fleeting glimpses that might mean anything faint scribbles on lavatory walls--once, even, the hand which had looked as though it might be very likely he had imagined everything. He had O'Brien again. The idea of following up their would have been inconceivably dangerous even if he two seconds, they had exchanged an equivocal But even that was a memorable event, in the Winston roused himself and out a belch. The gin was rising from his stomach. His eyes re-focused on the page. He discovered also been writing, as though by automatic awkward handwriting as before. His pen had printing in large neat capitals-- Down With Big Brother! Down With Big Brother! Down With Big Brother! over and over again, filling half a page. He could not help feeling a twinge of panic. particular words was not more dangerous than a moment he was tempted to tear out the spoiled He did not do so, however, because he knew with big brother&quot;, or whether he refrained from on with the diary, or whether he did not go Police would get him just the same. He had he had never set pen to paper--the essential crime they called it. Thoughtcrime was not a thing dodge successfully for a while, even for years, It was always at night--the arrests invariably the rough hand shaking your shoulder, the lights the bed. In the vast majority of cases there simply disappeared, always during the night. every record of everything you had ever done denied and then forgotten. You were abolished, For a moment he was seized by a kind of hysteria. They'll shoot me i don't care. They'll shoot me big brother they always shoot you in the back He sat back in his chair, slightly ashamed next moment he started violently. Already! He sat as still as a mouse, in the futile single attempt. But no, the knocking was repeated. heart was thumping like a drum, but his face, from and moved heavily towards the door. As he put his hand to the door-knob Winston saw &quot;Down With Big Brother!&quot; was written all over across the room. It was an inconceivably stupid his panic he had not wanted to smudge the creamy He drew in his breath and opened the door. him. A colourless, crushed-looking woman, with 'Oh, comrade,' she began in a dreary, whining sort think you could come across and have a look It was Mrs Parsons, the wife of a neighbour discountenanced by the Party -- you were supposed one used it instinctively.) She was a woman of impression that there was dust in the creases of These amateur repair jobs were an almost daily built in nineteen thirty or thereabouts, and were from ceilings and walls, the pipes burst in every snow, the heating system was usually running at from motives of economy. Repairs, except what by remote committees which were liable to hold up 'Of course it's only because Tom 'The Parsons' flat was bigger than Winston's, battered, trampled-on look, as though the violent animal. Games impedimenta--hockey-sticks, shorts turned inside out--lay all over the of dirty dishes and dog-eared exercise-books. On and the Spies, and a full-sized poster of Big common to the whole building, but it was which--one knew this at the first sniff, though person not present at the moment. In another room was trying to keep tune with the military music 'It's the children,' said Mrs Parsons, casting a half-apprehensive glance at the door. She had a habit of breaking off her sentences to the brim with filthy greenish water which down and examined the angle-joint of the pipe. He which was always liable to start him 'Of course if Tom was home he'd put loves anything like that. He's ever Parsons was Winston's fellow-employee at the man of paralysing stupidity, a mass of imbecile devoted drudges on whom, more even than the Party depended. At thirty-five he had just and before graduating into the Youth League he had the statutory age. At the Ministry he was employed was not required, but on the other hand he was a other committees engaged in organizing community campaigns, and voluntary activities generally. He of his pipe, that he had put in an appearance at four years. An overpowering smell of sweat, a sort his life, followed him about wherever he went, 'Have you got a spanner?' said Winston, 'A spanner,' said Mrs Parsons, immediately I'm sure. Perhaps the children...' another blast on the comb as the children brought the spanner. Winston let out the water that had blocked up the pipe. He cleaned his from the tap and went back into the other room. A handsome, tough-looking boy of nine had popped with a toy automatic pistol, while his small gesture with a fragment of wood. Both of them were neckerchiefs which were the uniform of the Spies. an uneasy feeling, so vicious was the boy's 'You're a traitor!' yelled the boy. 'You're I'll shoot you, I'll vaporize you, Suddenly they were both leaping round him, the little girl imitating her brother in every like the gambolling of tiger into man-eaters. There was a sort of a quite evident desire to hit or kick Winston enough to do so. It was a good job it was not Mrs Parsons' eyes flitted nervously and back again. In the better light interest that there actually was 'They do get so noisy,' she said. 'They're hanging, that's what it is. I'm too busy to take 'Why can't we go and see the hanging?' 'Want to see the hanging! Want to see still capering round. Some Eurasian prisoners, guilty of war that evening, Winston remembered. and was a popular spectacle. Children He took his leave of Mrs Parsons and made down the passage when something hit the back was as though a red-hot wire had been jabbed Mrs Parsons dragging her son back into the 'Goldstein!' bellowed the boy as the struck Winston was the look of helpless Back in the flat he stepped quickly past the still rubbing his neck. The music from the military voice was reading out, with a sort of of the new Floating Fortress which had just been With those children, he thought, that wretched two years, and they would be watching her night children nowadays were horrible. What was worst as the Spies they were systematically turned into in them no tendency whatever to rebel against they adored the Party and everything connected the hiking, the drilling with dummy the worship of Big Brother--it was all a sort was turned outwards, against the enemies of the thought-criminals. It was almost normal for own children. And with good reason, for hardly a paragraph describing how some eavesdropping used--had overheard some compromising remark and The sting of the catapult bullet had worn wondering whether he could find Suddenly he began thinking of O'Brien again. be--he had dreamed that he was walking through a of him had said as he passed: 'We shall meet in very quietly, almost casually--a statement, not a was curious was that at the time, in the dream, It was only later and by degrees that they had remember whether it was before or after having the nor could he remember when he had first at any rate the identification existed. It was Winston had never been able to feel sure--even still impossible to be sure whether O'Brien seem to matter greatly. There was a link of than affection or partisanship. 'We shall meet said. Winston did not know what it meant, only The voice from the telescreen paused. floated into the stagnant air. 'Attention! Your attention, please! A the Malabar front. Our forces in South authorized to say that the action we war within measurable distance of Bad news coming, thought Winston. And sure enough, following on a gory description of with stupendous figures of killed and as from next week, the chocolate ration would Winston belched again. The gin was wearing off, leaving a deflated feeling. The telescreen--perhaps memory of the lost chocolate--crashed supposed to stand to attention. However, 'Oceania, 'tis for thee' gave way to lighter keeping his back to the telescreen. Somewhere far away a rocket reverberating roar. About twenty or thirty of Down in the street the wind flapped the torn appeared and vanished. Ingsoc. The sacred the mutability of the past. He felt as though he lost in a monstrous world where he himself was the future was unimaginable. What certainty was on his side? And what way of knowing that the Like an answer, the three slogans on the white War Is Peace. Freedom Is Slavery. He took a twenty-five cent piece out of his same slogans were inscribed, and on the other face coin the eyes pursued you. On coins, on stamps, on on the wrappings of a cigarette packet--everywhere. enveloping you. Asleep or awake, working or or in bed--no escape. Nothing was your own except The sun had shifted round, and the myriad windows shining on them, looked grim as the loopholes enormous pyramidal shape. It was too strong, it would not batter it down. He wondered again for for the past--for an age that might be not death but annihilation. The diary would Only the Thought Police would read what he existence and out of memory. How could you make not even an anonymous word scribbled on a The telescreen struck fourteen. He be back at work by fourteen-thirty. seemed to have put new heart into him. He was a ever hear. But so long as he uttered it, in some not by making yourself heard but by staying sane back to the table, dipped his pen, and wrote: thought is free, when men are different from one exists and what is done cannot be undone: solitude, from the age of Big Brother, He was already dead, he reflected. It when he had begun to be able to formulate step. The consequences of every act are Thoughtcrime does not entail Now he had recognized himself as a dead man possible. Two fingers of his right hand of detail that might betray you. Some nosing someone like the little sandy-haired woman Department) might start wondering why he had had used an old-fashioned pen, WHAT he had been quarter. He went to the bathroom and carefully soap which rasped your skin like sandpaper and He put the diary away in the drawer. It but he could at least make sure whether or not across the page-ends was too obvious. With the tip of whitish dust and deposited it on the corner of the book was moved. Winston was dreaming of his mother. He must, he thought, have been ten or eleven years tall, statuesque, rather silent woman with slow he remembered more vaguely as dark and thin, remembered especially the very thin soles of his them must evidently have been swallowed up in At this moment his mother was sitting with his young sister in her arms. He did not feeble baby, always silent, with large, watchful were down in some subterranean place--the bottom of was a place which, already far below him, the saloon of a sinking ship, looking up at him in the saloon, they could still see him and he down into the green waters which in another moment the light and air while they were being sucked he was up here. He knew it and they knew it, There was no reproach either in their faces or in die in order that he might remain alive, and that He could not remember what had happened, but he his mother and his sister had been sacrificed while retaining the characteristic dream scenery, and in which one becomes aware of facts and one is awake. The thing that now suddenly struck years ago, had been tragic and sorrowful in he perceived, belonged to the ancient time, and friendship, and when the members of a family reason. His mother's memory tore at his heart too young and selfish to love her in return, and sacrificed herself to a conception of loyalty that could not happen today. Today there were fear, deep or complex sorrows. All this he seemed to see looking up at him through the green water, Suddenly he was standing on short springy turf, sun gilded the ground. The landscape that he was he was never fully certain whether or not he thoughts he called it the Golden Country. It was wandering across it and a molehill here and side of the field the boughs of the elm trees leaves just stirring in dense masses like women's there was a clear, slow-moving stream where dace The girl with dark hair was coming towards them movement she tore off her clothes and flung them but it aroused no desire in him, indeed he that instant was admiration for the gesture with grace and carelessness it seemed to annihilate though Big Brother and the Party and the Thought single splendid movement of the arm. That too was woke up with the word 'Shakespeare' on his lips. whistle which continued on the same seven fifteen, getting-up time for office workers. for a member of the Outer Party received and a suit of pyjamas was 600--and seized a lying across a chair. The Physical Jerks would doubled up by a violent coughing fit which up. It emptied his lungs so completely that he his back and taking a series of deep gasps. His and the varicose ulcer had started itching. female voice. 'Thirty to forty group! Take Winston sprang to attention in front of youngish woman, scrawny but muscular, dressed 'Arms bending and stretching!' she rapped four! One, two, three, four! Come on, comrades, put a bit of life into it! One, two, The pain of the coughing fit had not quite driven dream, and the rhythmic movements of the exercise arms back and forth, wearing on his face the look during the Physical Jerks, he was struggling of his early childhood. It was extraordinarily faded. When there were no external records that life lost its sharpness. You remembered huge you remembered the detail of incidents without and there were long blank periods to which been different then. Even the names of had been different. Airstrip One, for instance, called England or Britain, though London, he felt Winston could not definitely remember a but it was evident that there had been a fairly because one of his early memories was of an air Perhaps it was the time when the atomic bomb had raid itself, but he did remember his father's down, down into some place deep in the earth, under his feet and which finally so wearied his stop and rest. His mother, in her slow, dreamy was carrying his baby sister--or perhaps it was he was not certain whether his sister had into a noisy, crowded place which he There were people sitting all over the packed tightly together, were sitting on metal mother and father found themselves a place on woman were sitting side by side on a bunk. The old cap pushed back from very white hair: his face tears. He reeked of gin. It seemed to breathe out fancied that the tears welling from his eyes were suffering under some grief that was genuine and that some terrible thing, something that was had just happened. It also seemed to him that he little granddaughter, perhaps--had been killed. 'We didn't ought to 'ave trusted 'em. I of trusting 'em. I said so all along. We But which buggers they didn't ought to have Since about that time, war had been literally always been the same war. For several months street fighting in London itself, some of out the history of the whole period, to say would have been utterly impossible, since ever made mention of any other alignment than the (if it was 1984), Oceania was at war with Eurasia private utterance was it ever admitted that the different lines. Actually, as Winston well knew, war with Eastasia and in alliance with Eurasia. which he happened to possess because his memory the change of partners had never happened. Oceania had always been at war with Eurasia. absolute evil, and it followed that any past The frightening thing, he reflected for the painfully backward (with hands on hips, they an exercise that was supposed to be good for the might all be true. If the Party could thrust its IT NEVER HAPPENED--that, surely, was more The Party said that Oceania had never been knew that Oceania had been in alliance with But where did that knowledge exist? Only in his annihilated. And if all others accepted the lie same tale--then the lie passed into history and Party slogan, 'controls the future: who controls though of its nature alterable, never had been everlasting to everlasting. It was quite simple. victories over your own memory. 'Reality control', 'Stand easy!' barked the Winston sank his arms to his sides and mind slid away into the labyrinthine world to be conscious of complete truthfulness while simultaneously two opinions which cancelled out, both of them, to use logic against logic, to to believe that democracy was impossible and to forget whatever it was necessary to again at the moment when it was needed, and to apply the same process to the process itself. induce unconsciousness, and then, once again, had just performed. Even to understand the word The instructress had called them to which of us can touch our toes!' she said please, comrades. One-two! One-two!...' shooting pains all the way from his heels to his coughing fit. The half-pleasant quality went had not merely been altered, it had been actually most obvious fact when there existed no record in what year he had first heard mention of Big time in the sixties, but it was impossible to Big Brother figured as the leader and guardian of exploits had been gradually pushed backwards fabulous world of the forties and the thirties, hats still rode through the streets of London with glass sides. There was no knowing how much Winston could not even remember at what date the believe he had ever heard the word Ingsoc before form--'English Socialism', that is to say--it had mist. Sometimes, indeed, you could put your for example, as was claimed in the Party aeroplanes. He remembered aeroplanes since his There was never any evidence. Just once in his documentary proof of the falsification of 'Smith!' screamed the shrewish voice from You! Bend lower, please! You can do better please! That's better, comrade. Now stand A sudden hot sweat had broken out all completely inscrutable. Never show dismay! the eyes could give you away. He stood her arms above her head and--one could neatness and efficiency--bent over and tucked 'There, comrades! That's how I want to see you had four children. Now look.' She bent over again. if you want to,' she added as she straightened capable of touching his toes. We don't all have but at least we can all keep fit. Remember our Floating Fortresses! Just think what They have comrade, that's MUCH better,' she with a violent lunge, succeeded in touching his several years. With the deep, unconscious sigh the telescreen could prevent him from Winston pulled the speakwrite towards and put on his spectacles. Then he unrolled of paper which had already flopped out of the In the walls of the cubicle there were three pneumatic tube for written messages, to the left, within easy reach of Winston's arm, a large last was for the disposal of waste paper. Similar throughout the building, not only in every room reason they were nicknamed memory holes. When one or even when one saw a scrap of waste paper lying flap of the nearest memory hole and drop it in, of warm air to the enormous furnaces which were Winston examined the four slips of paper which only one or two lines, in the abbreviated largely of Newspeak words--which was used in Times 17th of March 84. BB speech Times 19th of December, 83. Forecasts 3 YP. 4th Times 14th of February, 84. Miniplenty Times 3rd of December, 83. Reporting BB dayorder doubleplusungood refs unpersons With a faint feeling of satisfaction Winston laid responsible job and had better be dealt with though the second one would probably mean Winston dialled 'back numbers' on the telescreen Times', which slid out of the pneumatic tube after received referred to articles or news items which to alter, or, as the official phrase had it, to of the seventeenth of March that Big Brother, in the South Indian front would remain quiet but that North Africa. As it happened, the Eurasian Higher and left North Africa alone. It was therefore speech, in such a way as to make him predict 'The Times' of the nineteenth of December had of various classes of consumption goods in the quarter of the Ninth Three-Year Plan. Today's from which it appeared that the forecasts were in rectify the original figures by making them agree it referred to a very simple error which could time ago as February, the Ministry of Plenty had official words) that there would be no reduction as Winston was aware, the chocolate ration was to end of the present week. All that was needed warning that it would probably be necessary As soon as Winston had dealt with each of the to the appropriate copy of 'The Times' and with a movement which was as he crumpled up the original message and dropped them into the memory What happened in the unseen labyrinth to which the but he did know in general terms. As soon as all any particular number of 'The Times' had been reprinted, the original copy destroyed, and the This process of continuous alteration was applied pamphlets, posters, leaflets, films, sound-tracks, or documentation which might conceivably hold any and almost minute by minute the past was brought the Party could be shown by documentary evidence or any expression of opinion, which conflicted remain on record. All history was a palimpsest, as was necessary. In no case would it have been any falsification had taken place. The largest than the one on which Winston worked, consisted and collect all copies of books, newspapers, and due for destruction. A number of 'The Times' which or mistaken prophecies uttered by Big Brother, on the files bearing its original date, and no were recalled and rewritten again and again, and that any alteration had been made. Even the and which he invariably got rid of as soon as he an act of forgery was to be committed: always or misquotations which it was necessary But actually, he thought as he re-adjusted the forgery. It was merely the substitution of the material that you were dealing with had not even the kind of connexion that is contained fantasy in their original version as in their you were expected to make them up out of your forecast had estimated the output of boots actual output was given as sixty-two millions. marked the figure down to fifty-seven millions, had been overfulfilled. In any case, sixty-two millions, or than 145 millions. Very likely no nobody knew how many had been produced, much astronomical numbers of boots were produced of Oceania went barefoot. And so it was with every faded away into a shadow-world in which, finally, Winston glanced across the hall. In the a small, precise-looking, dark-chinned man with a folded newspaper on his knee and the speakwrite. He had the air of trying to keep the telescreen. He looked up, and his spectacles Winston hardly knew Tillotson, and had no in the Records Department did not readily talk with its double row of cubicles and its endless into speakwrites, there were quite a dozen though he daily saw them hurrying to and fro Minutes Hate. He knew that in the cubicle next to in day out, simply at tracking down and deleting vaporized and were therefore considered never to since her own husband had been vaporized a couple ineffectual, dreamy creature named Ampleforth, for juggling with rhymes and metres, was engaged they were called--of poems which but which for one reason or another were to with its fifty workers or thereabouts, was only in the huge complexity of the Records Department. engaged in an unimaginable multitude of jobs. sub-editors, their typography experts, and their photographs. There was the tele-programmes and its teams of actors specially chosen for their of reference clerks whose job was simply to draw for recall. There were the vast repositories and the hidden furnaces where the original quite anonymous, there were the directing and laid down the lines of policy which made should be preserved, that one falsified, And the Records Department, after all, was itself whose primary job was not to reconstruct Oceania with newspapers, films, textbooks, conceivable kind of information, instruction, from a lyric poem to a biological treatise, dictionary. And the Ministry had not only to but also to repeat the whole operation at a There was a whole chain of separate departments and entertainment generally. Here were produced except sport, crime and astrology, sensational and sentimental songs which were composed of kaleidoscope known as a versificator. There called in Newspeak--engaged in producing the lowest packets and which no Party member, other than Three messages had slid out of the pneumatic tube matters, and he had disposed of them before the was over he returned to his cubicle, took the speakwrite to one side, cleaned his spectacles, Winston's greatest pleasure in life was in his included in it there were also jobs so difficult in them as in the depths of a mathematical you had nothing to guide you except your knowledge what the Party wanted you to say. Winston was even been entrusted with the rectification written entirely in Newspeak. He unrolled the Times 3rd of December, 83. Reporting BB dayorder doubleplusungood refs unpersons In Oldspeak (or standard The reporting of Big Brother's Order 3rd 1983 is extremely unsatisfactory persons. Rewrite it in full and submit your Winston read through the offending article. had been chiefly devoted to praising the which supplied cigarettes and other comforts certain Comrade Withers, a prominent member for special mention and awarded a decoration, Three months later FFCC had suddenly been assume that Withers and his associates were now matter in the Press or on the telescreen. That was offenders to be put on trial or even publicly of people, with public trials of traitors and of their crimes and were afterwards executed, than once in a couple of years. More commonly, Party simply disappeared and were never heard what had happened to them. In some cases they personally known to Winston, not counting his Winston stroked his nose gently with a paper-clip. was still crouching secretively over his again the hostile spectacle-flash. Winston on the same job as himself. It was perfectly be entrusted to a single person: on the other to admit openly that an act of fabrication dozen people were now working away on rival said. And presently some master brain in the would re-edit it and set in motion the complex required, and then the chosen lie would pass Winston did not know why Withers had been incompetence. Perhaps Big Brother was merely Perhaps Withers or someone close to him had been was likeliest of all--the thing had simply happened part of the mechanics of government. The only which indicated that Withers was already dead. case when people were arrested. Sometimes they for as much as a year or two years before being had believed dead long since would make a ghostly implicate hundreds of others by his testimony however, was already an unperson. He did decided that it would not be enough simply to It was better to make it deal with something He might turn the speech into the usual but that was a little too obvious, while triumph of over-production in the Ninth Three-Year was needed was a piece of pure fantasy. Suddenly the image of a certain Comrade Ogilvy, who had There were occasions when Big Brother devoted his rank-and-file Party member whose life and death he he should commemorate Comrade Ogilvy. It was true but a few lines of print and a couple of faked Winston thought for a moment, then pulled the Big Brother's familiar style: a style at once of asking questions and then promptly answering comrades? The lesson--which is also of Ingsoc--that,' etc., etc.), easy to imitate. all toys except a drum, a sub-machine gun, by a special relaxation of the rules--he had joined eleven he had denounced his uncle to the Thought appeared to him to have criminal tendencies. At the Junior Anti-Sex League. At nineteen he had by the Ministry of Peace and which, at its first in one burst. At twenty-three he had perished in over the Indian Ocean with important despatches, leapt out of the helicopter into deep water, which it was impossible to contemplate without on the purity and single-mindedness of Comrade nonsmoker, had no recreations except a daily hour believing marriage and the care of a family to devotion to duty. He had no subjects of no aim in life except the defeat of the Eurasian thought-criminals, and traitors generally. to award Comrade Ogilvy the Order of against it because of the unnecessary Once again he glanced at his rival in the him with certainty that Tillotson was busy on the whose job would finally be adopted, but he felt Comrade Ogilvy, unimagined an hour ago, was now create dead men but not living ones. Comrade now existed in the past, and when he would exist just as authentically, and Julius Caesar. In the low-ceilinged canteen, deep underground, was already very full and deafeningly the steam of stew came pouring forth, with overcome the fumes of Victory Gin. On the a mere hole in the wall, where gin could 'Just the man I was looking for,' He turned round. It was his friend Syme, who 'friend' was not exactly the right word. You but there were some comrades whose society a philologist, a specialist in Newspeak. Indeed, engaged in compiling the Eleventh Edition of smaller than Winston, with dark hair and large, which seemed to search your face 'I wanted to ask you whether you'd 'Not one!' said Winston with a all over the place. They don't exist any longer.' Everyone kept asking you for razor ones which he was hoarding up. There past. At any given moment there was some were unable to supply. Sometimes it was sometimes it was shoelaces; at present it was if at all, by scrounging more or 'I've been using the same blade for The queue gave another jerk forward. Syme again. Each of them took a greasy metal 'Did you go and see the prisoners 'I was working,' said Winston indifferently. 'A very inadequate substitute,' said Syme. His mocking eyes roved over Winston's face. 'I you. I know very well why you didn't go to see Syme was venomously orthodox. He would talk of helicopter raids on enemy villages, and the executions in the cellars of the largely a matter of getting him away if possible, in the technicalities of Newspeak, Winston turned his head a little aside to 'It was a good hanging,' said Syme reminiscently. together. I like to see them kicking. And above and blue--a quite bright blue. That's 'Nex', please!' yelled the Winston and Syme pushed their trays beneath the regulation lunch--a metal pannikin a cube of cheese, a mug of milkless 'There's a table over there, under that telescreen,' said Syme. The gin was served out to them in handleless the crowded room and unpacked their on one corner of which someone had left a pool appearance of vomit. Winston took up his mug of and gulped the oily-tasting stuff down. When he discovered that he was hungry. He began in among its general sloppiness, had cubes preparation of meat. Neither of them spoke again table at Winston's left, a little behind his back, a harsh gabble almost like the quacking of a duck, 'How is the Dictionary getting on?' said 'Slowly,' said Syme. 'I'm on the He had brightened up immediately at the mention took up his hunk of bread in one delicate hand table so as to be able to speak without shouting. he said. 'We're getting the language into its nobody speaks anything else. When we've finished all over again. You think, I dare say, that our of it! We're destroying words--scores of them, the language down to the bone. The Eleventh become obsolete before the year twenty fifty.' couple of mouthfuls, then continued speaking, with had become animated, his eyes had lost their 'It's a beautiful thing, the destruction in the verbs and adjectives, but there of as well. It isn't only the synonyms; what justification is there for a word which is contains its opposite in itself. Take &quot;good&quot;, what need is there for a word like &quot;bad&quot;? &quot;Ungood&quot; opposite, which the other is not. Or again, what sense is there in having a whole string &quot;splendid&quot; and all the rest of them? &quot;Plusgood&quot; want something stronger still. Of course we use Newspeak there'll be nothing else. In the end be covered by only six words--in reality, only Winston? It was B.B.'s idea originally, A sort of vapid eagerness flitted across Brother. Nevertheless Syme immediately 'You haven't a real appreciation of Newspeak, write it you're still thinking in Oldspeak. in &quot;The Times&quot; occasionally. They're good heart you'd prefer to stick to Oldspeak, shades of meaning. You don't grasp the beauty Newspeak is the only language in the world Winston did know that, of course. not trusting himself to speak. Syme bit off chewed it briefly, and went on: 'Don't you see that the whole aim of Newspeak we shall make thoughtcrime literally impossible, it. Every concept that can ever be needed, will rigidly defined and all its subsidiary meanings Edition, we're not far from that point. But the and I are dead. Every year fewer and fewer words, smaller. Even now, of course, there's no reason or question of self-discipline, reality-control. for that. The Revolution will be complete when the is Newspeak,' he added with a sort of mystical Winston, that by the year 2050, at the will be alive who could understand such 'Except...' began Winston It had been on the tip of his tongue to say not feeling fully certain that this remark had divined what he was about to say. said carelessly. 'By twenty fifty -- earlier, disappeared. The whole literature of the past will Byron--they'll exist only in Newspeak versions, but actually changed into something contradictory the Party will change. Even the slogans like &quot;freedom is slavery&quot; when the concept of of thought will be different. In fact there Orthodoxy means not thinking--not needing One of these days, thought Winston Syme will be vaporized. He is too intelligent. Party does not like such people. One day he Winston had finished his bread and cheese. drink his mug of coffee. At the table on his talking remorselessly away. A young woman who was her back to Winston, was listening to him and that he said. From time to time Winston caught I do so agree with you', uttered in a youthful voice never stopped for an instant, even when the though he knew no more about him than that he held was a man of about thirty, with a muscular throat back a little, and because of the angle at which and presented to Winston two blank discs instead the stream of sound that poured out of his mouth word. Just once Winston caught a phrase--'complete very rapidly and, as it seemed, all in one piece, was just a noise, a quack-quack-quacking. And the man was saying, you could not be in any doubt Goldstein and demanding sterner measures he might be fulminating against the atrocities Big Brother or the heroes on the Malabar you could be certain that every word of it was eyeless face with the jaw moving rapidly up and not a real human being but some kind of dummy. it was his larynx. The stuff that was coming speech in the true sense: it was a noise uttered Syme had fallen silent for a moment, and patterns in the puddle of stew. The voice easily audible in spite of the surrounding din. 'There is a word in Newspeak,' said Syme, 'I to quack like a duck. It is one of those meanings. Applied to an opponent, it is abuse, Unquestionably Syme will be vaporized, a kind of sadness, although well knowing that and was fully capable of denouncing him as a so. There was something subtly wrong with Syme. aloofness, a sort of saving stupidity. You could principles of Ingsoc, he venerated Big Brother, not merely with sincerity but with a sort of which the ordinary Party member did not approach. to him. He said things that would have been better the Chestnut Tree Cafe, haunt of painters and law, against frequenting the Chestnut Tree Cafe, discredited leaders of the Party had been used Goldstein himself, it was said, had sometimes been not difficult to foresee. And yet it was a fact the nature of his, Winston's, secret opinions, Police. So would anybody else, for that was not enough. Orthodoxy was unconsciousness. Something in the tone of his voice seemed Winston's fellow-tenant at Victory Mansions, was middle-sized man with fair hair and a froglike rolls of fat at neck and waistline, but whole appearance was that of a little boy grown the regulation overalls, it was almost impossible shorts, grey shirt, and red neckerchief always a picture of dimpled knees and sleeves indeed, invariably revert to shorts when activity gave him an excuse for doing so. hullo!' and sat down at the table, giving moisture stood out all over his pink face. At the Community Centre you could always by the dampness of the bat handle. Syme had a long column of words, and was studying 'Look at him working away in the lunch hour,' eh? What's that you've got there, old I expect. Smith, old boy, I'll tell you why I'm 'Which sub is that?' said Winston, About a quarter of one's salary had to which were so numerous that it was 'For Hate Week. You know--the house-by-house fund. all-out effort--going to put on a tremendous show. Mansions doesn't have the biggest outfit of flags Winston found and handed over which Parsons entered in a small notebook, 'By the way, old boy,' he said. 'I hear you with his catapult yesterday. I it. In fact I told him I'd take the 'I think he was a little upset at not 'Ah, well--what I mean to say, shows the right they are, both of them, but talk about keenness! of course. D'you know what that little girl on a hike out Berkhamsted way? She got two other and spent the whole afternoon following a right through the woods, and then, when they got 'What did they do that for?' said Winston, somewhat taken aback. 'My kid made sure he was some kind of enemy for instance. But here's the point, old boy. first place? She spotted he was wearing a anyone wearing shoes like that before. Pretty smart for a nipper of seven, eh?' 'Ah, that I couldn't say, of course. But Parsons made the motion of aiming a rifle, 'Good,' said Syme abstractedly, without 'Of course we can't afford to take 'What I mean to say, there As though in confirmation of this, a just above their heads. However, it was not the but merely an announcement 'Comrades!' cried an eager youthful voice. news for you. We have won the battle for output of all classes of consumption goods show than 20 per cent over the past year. All over spontaneous demonstrations when workers marched the streets with banners voicing their gratitude wise leadership has bestowed upon us. Here are The phrase 'our new, happy life' recurred late with the Ministry of Plenty. Parsons, sat listening with a sort of gaping solemnity, a figures, but he was aware that they were in some huge and filthy pipe which was already half full 100 grammes a week it was seldom possible to fill Cigarette which he held carefully horizontal. he had only four cigarettes left. For the moment was listening to the stuff that streamed out of been demonstrations to thank Big Brother for a week. And only yesterday, he reflected, it had to twenty grammes a week. Was it possible that hours? Yes, they swallowed it. Parsons swallowed eyeless creature at the other table swallowed it to track down, denounce, and vaporize anyone who thirty grammes. Syme, too--in some more complex he, then, alone in the possession of a memory? of the telescreen. As compared with last year more furniture, more cooking-pots, more fuel, babies--more of everything except disease, crime, everybody and everything was whizzing rapidly taken up his spoon and was dabbling in the the table, drawing a long streak of it out into a texture of life. Had it always been like this? Had canteen. A low-ceilinged, crowded room, its walls battered metal tables and chairs, placed so bent spoons, dented trays, coarse white mugs; and a sourish, composite smell of bad gin clothes. Always in your stomach and in a feeling that you had been cheated of something no memories of anything greatly different. In there had never been quite enough to eat, one had of holes, furniture had always been battered and houses falling to pieces, bread dark-coloured, insufficient--nothing cheap and plentiful except worse as one's body aged, was it not a sign if one's heart sickened at the discomfort and the stickiness of one's socks, the lifts that cigarettes that came to pieces, the food with its intolerable unless one had some kind of ancestral He looked round the canteen again. Nearly everyone dressed otherwise than in the uniform blue sitting at a table alone, a small, curiously his little eyes darting suspicious glances from if you did not look about you, to believe Party as an ideal--tall muscular youths and sunburnt, carefree--existed and even predominated. of people in Airstrip One were small, dark, and type proliferated in the Ministries: little with short legs, swift scuttling movements, and was the type that seemed to flourish The announcement from the Ministry of Plenty ended on another trumpet call and stirred to vague enthusiasm by the bombardment 'The Ministry of Plenty's certainly with a knowing shake of his head. 'By the way, Smith old boy, I suppose you haven't got 'Not one,' said Winston. 'I've been using 'Ah, well--just thought I'd ask you, old boy.' 'Sorry,' said Winston. The quacking voice from the next table, announcement, had started up again, as loud found himself thinking of Mrs Parsons, with of her face. Within two years those children Mrs Parsons would be vaporized. Syme would O'Brien would be vaporized. Parsons, on The eyeless creature with the quacking beetle-like men who scuttle so nimbly through the would never be vaporized. And the girl with dark would never be vaporized either. It seemed to and who would perish: though just what it was At this moment he was dragged out of his the next table had turned partly round and hair. She was looking at him in a sidelong she caught his eye she looked away again. A horrible pang of terror went through him. It nagging uneasiness behind. Why was she watching Unfortunately he could not remember whether she or had come there afterwards. But yesterday, she had sat immediately behind him when there her real object had been to listen to him and His earlier thought returned to him: probably she but then it was precisely the amateur spy did not know how long she had been looking at and it was possible that his features had not been to let your thoughts wander when you were in any The smallest thing could give you away. A a habit of muttering to yourself--anything that of having something to hide. In any case, to look incredulous when a victory was a punishable offence. There was even a word The girl had turned her back on him again. Perhaps perhaps it was coincidence that she had sat so gone out, and he laid it carefully on the edge of if he could keep the tobacco in it. Quite spy of the Thought Police, and quite likely Love within three days, but a cigarette end strip of paper and stowed it away in his 'Did I ever tell you, old boy,' he said, 'about the time when those two nippers of mine they saw her wrapping up sausages in a poster of with a box of matches. Burned her quite badly, I That's a first-rate training they give them even. What d'you think's the latest thing for listening through keyholes! My little girl on our sitting-room door, and reckoned she the hole. Of course it's only a toy, mind At this moment the telescreen let out a piercing three men sprang to their feet to join in the tobacco fell out of Winston's cigarette. Winston was writing in his diary: It was three years ago. It was on a dark of the big railway stations. She was standing that hardly gave any light. She had a young face, appealed to me, the whiteness of it, like a mask, their faces. There was nobody else in the street, For the moment it was too difficult to go on. them, trying to squeeze out the vision that temptation to shout a string of filthy words against the wall, to kick over the table, and violent or noisy or painful thing that might Your worst enemy, he reflected, was your own inside you was liable to translate itself into he had passed in the street a few weeks back; a thirty-five to forty, tallish and thin, carrying a left side of the man's face was suddenly contorted were passing one another: it was only a twitch, a but obviously habitual. He remembered thinking at was frightening was that the action was quite all was talking in your sleep. There was no way He drew his breath and went on writing: I went with her through the doorway and across a bed against the wall, and a lamp on His teeth were set on edge. He would have liked basement kitchen he thought of Katharine, his at any rate: probably he still was was not dead. He seemed to breathe again the an odour compounded of bugs and dirty clothes and because no woman of the Party ever used Only the proles used scent. In his mind the smell When he had gone with that woman it had been Consorting with prostitutes was forbidden, of could occasionally nerve yourself to break. It matter. To be caught with a prostitute might mean if you had committed no other offence. And it was caught in the act. The poorer quarters swarmed Some could even be purchased for a bottle to drink. Tacitly the Party was even inclined to which could not be altogether suppressed. so long as it was furtive and joyless and only class. The unforgivable crime was promiscuity one of the crimes that the accused in the great to imagine any such thing actually happening. men and women from forming loyalties which undeclared purpose was to remove all pleasure from the enemy, inside marriage as well as outside be approved by a committee appointed for the clearly stated--permission was always refused of being physically attracted to one another. The children for the service of the Party. Sexual disgusting minor operation, like having an but in an indirect way it was rubbed into every were even organizations such as the Junior celibacy for both sexes. All children were to it was called in newspeak) and brought up in was not meant altogether seriously, but somehow it The Party was trying to kill the sex instinct, it and dirty it. He did not know why this was so. And as far as the women were concerned, He thought again of Katharine. It must be nine, It was curious how seldom he thought of her. For he had ever been married. They had only been did not permit divorce, but it rather encouraged Katharine was a tall, fair-haired girl, very aquiline face, a face that one might have there was as nearly as possible nothing he had decided--though perhaps it was only knew most people--that she had without empty mind that he had ever encountered. She had and there was no imbecility, absolutely if the Party handed it out to her. 'The human Yet he could have endured living with her As soon as he touched her she seemed to wince a jointed wooden image. And what was strange was had the feeling that she was simultaneously rigidity of her muscles managed to convey that neither resisting nor co-operating but submitting. while, horrible. But even then he could have borne should remain celibate. But curiously enough she said, produce a child if they could. So the quite regularly, whenever it was not impossible. as something which had to be done that evening names for it. One was 'making a baby', and she had actually used that phrase). of positive dread when the appointed day and in the end she agreed to give up Winston sighed inaudibly. He She threw herself down on the bed, and in the most coarse, horrible way you He saw himself standing there in the dim scent in his nostrils, and in his heart a feeling was mixed up with the thought of Katharine's power of the Party. Why did it always have to be own instead of these filthy scuffles at intervals unthinkable event. The women of the Party were as Party loyalty. By careful early conditioning, dinned into them at school and in the Spies and slogans, and martial music, the natural feeling that there must be exceptions, but his heart as the Party intended that they should be. And was to break down that wall of virtue, even if it successfully performed, was rebellion. Desire was if he could have achieved it, would have been But the rest of the story had I turned up the lamp. When After the darkness the feeble light of the first time he could see the woman properly. He had lust and terror. He was painfully conscious of the possible that the patrols would catch him on the outside the door at this moment. If he went away It had got to be written down, it had got in the lamplight was that the woman was old. The looked as though it might crack like a cardboard but the truly dreadful detail was that revealing nothing except a cavernous He wrote hurriedly, in scrabbling handwriting: When I saw her in the light fifty years old at least. But I He pressed his fingers against his eyelids again. difference. The therapy had not worked. The urge as strong as ever. 'If there is hope,' wrote If there was hope, it MUST lie in the proles, masses, 85 percent of the population of Oceania, generated. The Party could not be overthrown had no way of coming together or even of Brotherhood existed, as just possibly it might, assemble in larger numbers than twos and threes. of the voice, at the most, an occasional whispered become conscious of their own strength. would rise up and shake themselves like a horse shaking Party to pieces tomorrow morning. Surely sooner or He remembered how once he had been walking of hundreds of voices women's voices--had burst a great formidable cry of anger and despair, a like the reverberation of a bell. His heart had proles are breaking loose at last! When he had three hundred women crowding round the stalls of they had been the doomed passengers on a sinking down into a multitude of individual quarrels. It tin saucepans. They were wretched, flimsy things, to get. Now the supply had unexpectedly given out. rest, were trying to make off with their saucepans accusing the stall-keeper of favouritism and There was a fresh outburst of yells. Two bloated got hold of the same saucepan and were trying to they were both tugging, and then the handle came just for a moment, what almost frightening power throats! Why was it that they could never He wrote: Until they become conscious they will have rebelled they cannot become conscious. transcription from one of the Party textbooks. The proles from bondage. Before the Revolution they they had been starved and flogged, women had still did work in the coal mines, as a matter of at the age of six. But simultaneously, true to the the proles were natural inferiors who must be kept a few simple rules. In reality very little was to know much. So long as they continued to work importance. Left to themselves, like cattle they had reverted to a style of life that ancestral pattern. They were born, they grew they passed through a brief blossoming-period of they were middle-aged at thirty, they died, for the care of home and children, petty quarrels with gambling, filled up the horizon of their minds. agents of the Thought Police moved always among eliminating the few individuals who were judged made to indoctrinate them with the ideology of the have strong political feelings. All that was could be appealed to whenever it was necessary shorter rations. And even when they became discontent led nowhere, because being without specific grievances. The larger evils invariably did not even have telescreens in their homes. little. There was a vast amount of criminality in bandits, prostitutes, drug-peddlers, and it all happened among the proles themselves, morals they were allowed to follow their ancestral imposed upon them. Promiscuity went unpunished, religious worship would have been permitted if the it. They were beneath suspicion. As the Party Winston reached down and cautiously scratched The thing you invariably came back to was the Revolution had really been like. He took out textbook which he had borrowed from Mrs Parsons, In the old days (it ran), before the glorious we know today. It was a dark, dirty, miserable where hundreds and thousands of poor people had no under. Children no older than you had to work them with whips if they worked too slowly and fed But in among all this terrible poverty there were lived in by rich men who had as many as thirty called capitalists. They were fat, ugly men with opposite page. You can see that he is dressed in a a queer, shiny hat shaped like a stovepipe, which capitalists, and no one else was allowed to wear and everyone else was their slave. They owned and all the money. If anyone disobeyed them they his job away and starve him to death. When had to cringe and bow to him, and take off his the capitalists was called the King, and... would be mention of the bishops in their lawn the pillory, the stocks, the treadmill, the and the practice of kissing the Pope's toe. There which would probably not be mentioned in by which every capitalist had the right to sleep How could you tell how much of it was lies? was better off now than he had been before the was the mute protest in your own bones, the in were intolerable and that at some other time the truly characteristic thing about modern life its bareness, its dinginess, its listlessness. not only to the lies that streamed out of the was trying to achieve. Great areas of it, even for a matter of slogging through dreary jobs, fighting cadging a saccharine tablet, saving a cigarette huge, terrible, and glittering--a world of steel weapons--a nation of warriors and fanatics, the same thoughts and shouting the same slogans, persecuting--three hundred million people all with cities where underfed people shuffled to and fro houses that smelt always of cabbage and bad vast and ruinous, city of a million dustbins, and a woman with lined face and wispy hair, He reached down and scratched his ankle again. with statistics proving that people today had recreations--that they lived longer, worked shorter more intelligent, better educated, than the people be proved or disproved. The Party claimed, for were literate: before the Revolution, it was Party claimed that the infant mortality rate was Revolution it had been 300 -- and so it went on. It might very well be that literally every word accepted without question, was pure fantasy. For law as the Jus Primae Noctis, or any such creature Everything faded into mist. The past was erased, Just once in his life he had possessed -- AFTER unmistakable evidence of an act of falsification. thirty seconds. In 1973, it must have been when he and Katharine had parted. But the really The story really began in the middle sixties, the leaders of the Revolution were wiped out once left, except Big Brother himself. All the rest counter-revolutionaries. Goldstein had fled and a few had simply disappeared, while the majority at which they made confession of their crimes. Jones, Aaronson, and Rutherford. It must have As often happened, they had vanished for a year or alive or dead, and then had suddenly been brought way. They had confessed to intelligence with the embezzlement of public funds, the murder against the leadership of Big Brother which had and acts of sabotage causing the death of hundreds things they had been pardoned, reinstated fact sinecures but which sounded important. All Times', analysing the reasons for their Some time after their release Winston had actually He remembered the sort of terrified fascination of his eye. They were men far older than himself, figures left over from the heroic days of struggle and the civil war still faintly clung that time facts and dates were growing blurry, he had known that of Big Brother. But also they absolute certainty to extinction within a year or the Thought Police ever escaped in the end. They There was no one at any of the tables nearest neighbourhood of such people. They were sitting with cloves which was the speciality of the appearance had most impressed Winston. Rutherford cartoons had helped to inflame popular opinion at long intervals, his cartoons were appearing his earlier manner, and curiously lifeless and the ancient themes--slum tenements, starving hats--even on the barricades the capitalists still hopeless effort to get back into the past. He was his face pouched and seamed, with thick been immensely strong; now his great body in every direction. He seemed to be breaking up It was the lonely hour of fifteen. Winston could cafe at such a time. The place was almost telescreens. The three men sat in their corner the waiter brought fresh glasses of gin. There with the pieces set out but no game started. something happened to the telescreens. and the tone of the music changed was something hard to describe. It was a in his mind Winston called it a yellow note. And Under the spreading chestnut tree There lie they, and here lie we The three men never stirred. But when Winston he saw that his eyes were full of tears. with a kind of inward shudder, and yet not Aaronson and Rutherford had broken noses. It appeared that they had engaged in of their release. At their second trial they with a whole string of new ones. They were Party histories, a warning to posterity. Winston was unrolling a wad of documents which to his desk when he came on a fragment of paper others and then forgotten. The instant he had a half-page torn out of 'The Times' of about so that it included the date--and it contained function in New York. Prominent in the middle of There was no mistaking them, in any case The point was that at both trials all three been on Eurasian soil. They had flown from somewhere in Siberia, and had conferred to whom they had betrayed important military because it chanced to be midsummer day; countless other places as well. There was only one Of course, this was not in itself a had not imagined that the people actually committed the crimes that they were it was a fragment of the abolished past, like stratum and destroys a geological theory. if in some way it could have been published He had gone straight on working. As soon as he he had covered it up with another sheet it had been upside-down from the He took his scribbling pad on his knee and away from the telescreen as possible. To keep and even your breathing could be controlled, beating of your heart, and the telescreen He let what he judged to be ten minutes go some accident--a sudden draught blowing across without uncovering it again, he dropped the some other waste papers. Within another minute, That was ten--eleven years ago. Today, probably, that the fact of having held it in his fingers when the photograph itself, as was only memory. Was the Party's he wondered, because a piece of evidence But today, supposing that it could be the photograph might not even be evidence. Oceania was no longer at war with Eurasia, and it three dead men had betrayed their country. Since he could not remember how many. Very likely the the original facts and dates no longer had the but changed continuously. What most afflicted him clearly understood why the huge imposture was the past were obvious, but the ultimate motive was I understand HOW: I do not understand WHY. He wondered, as he had many times wondered Perhaps a lunatic was simply a minority of to believe that the earth goes round the sun; He might be ALONE in holding that belief, and being a lunatic did not greatly trouble him: He picked up the children's history book and its frontispiece. The hypnotic eyes gazed into pressing down upon you--something that penetrated frightening you out of your beliefs, persuading In the end the Party would announce that two and It was inevitable that they should make that position demanded it. Not merely the validity of reality, was tacitly denied by their philosophy. was terrifying was not that they would kill you right. For, after all, how do we know that two and Or that the past is unchangeable? If both the past and if the mind itself is controllable what then? its own accord. The face of O'Brien, not called up mind. He knew, with more certainty than before, the diary for O'Brien--TO O'Brien: it was like an but which was addressed to a particular The Party told you to reject the evidence most essential command. His heart sank as he the ease with which any Party intellectual would which he would not be able to understand, much were wrong and he was right. The obvious, the Truisms are true, hold on to that! The solid world water is wet, objects unsupported fall towards was speaking to O'Brien, and also that he was Freedom is the freedom to say that two all else follows. From somewhere at the bottom of a passage not Victory Coffee -- came floating out into For perhaps two seconds he was back in the a door banged, seeming to cut off the smell He had walked several kilometres over pavements, the second time in three weeks that he had missed since you could be certain that the number of your In principle a Party member had no spare time, that when he was not working, eating, or sleeping recreation: to do anything that suggested a taste was always slightly dangerous. There was a word meaning individualism and eccentricity. But the balminess of the April air had tempted seen it that year, and suddenly the long, exhausting games, the lectures, the had seemed intolerable. On impulse he wandered off into the labyrinth of London, losing himself among unknown streets and hardly 'If there is hope,' he had written in the diary, back to him, statement of a mystical truth and a brown-coloured slums to the north and east He was walking up a cobbled street of little gave straight on the pavement and which were were puddles of filthy water here and there among down narrow alley-ways that branched off on either in full bloom, with crudely lipsticked mouths, waddling women who showed you what the girls would shuffling along on splayed feet, and ragged then scattered at angry yells from their mothers. were broken and boarded up. Most of the people with a sort of guarded curiosity. Two monstrous aprons were talking outside a doorway. Winston '&quot;Yes,&quot; I says to 'er, &quot;that's all very my place you'd of done the same as what &quot;but you ain't got the same 'Ah,' said the other, 'that's The strident voices stopped abruptly. The women But it was not hostility, exactly; merely as at the passing of some unfamiliar animal. The sight in a street like this. Indeed, it was unwise business there. The patrols might stop you if you comrade? What are you doing here? What time home?'--and so on and so forth. Not that there was but it was enough to draw attention to Suddenly the whole street was in commotion. People were shooting into the doorways like a little ahead of Winston, grabbed up a tiny child and leapt back again, all in one movement. At black suit, who had emerged from a side alley, ran 'Steamer!' he yelled. 'Look out, 'Steamer' was a nickname which, for some reason, promptly flung himself on his face. The proles warning of this kind. They seemed to possess some in advance when a rocket was coming, although the Winston clasped his forearms above his head. There a shower of light objects pattered on to his back. fragments of glass from the nearest window. of houses 200 metres up the street. A and below it a cloud of plaster dust in which a was a little pile of plaster lying on the pavement a bright red streak. When he got up to it he saw Apart from the bloody stump, the hand was so He kicked the thing into the gutter, and then, the right. Within three or four minutes he was and the sordid swarming life of the streets was nearly twenty hours, and the drinking-shops which were choked with customers. From their grimy there came forth a smell of urine, sawdust, and house-front three men were standing very close folded-up newspaper which the other two were was near enough to make out the expression on every line of their bodies. It was obviously reading. He was a few paces away from them when were in violent altercation. For a moment 'Can't you bleeding well listen to what I say? I tell you no number ending in seven 'Yes, it 'as, then!' 'No, it 'as not! Back 'ome I got the 'ole lot of paper. I takes 'em down reg'lar as the clock. 'Yes, a seven 'AS won! I could pretty Four oh seven, it ended in. It were 'February your grandmother! I got it all down in 'Oh, pack it in!' said the third man. They were talking about the Lottery. thirty metres. They were still arguing, with its weekly pay-out of enormous prizes, paid serious attention. It was probable that the Lottery was the principal if not the only their folly, their anodyne, their intellectual even people who could barely read and write seemed feats of memory. There was a whole tribe of men forecasts, and lucky amulets. Winston had which was managed by the Ministry of Plenty, was aware) that the prizes were largely paid out, the winners of the big prizes being intercommunication between one part of Oceania But if there was hope, it lay in the proles. You it sounded reasonable: it was when you looked at it became an act of faith. The street into which he had been in this neighbourhood before, and that somewhere ahead there came a din of shouting ended in a flight of steps which led down into selling tired-looking vegetables. At this moment into the main street, and down the next turning, had bought the blank book which was now his diary. had bought his penholder and his bottle of ink. On the opposite side of the alley there was a frosted over but in reality were merely coated with white moustaches that bristled forward like went in. As Winston stood watching, it occurred the least, had already been middle-aged when the him were the last links that now existed with itself there were not many people left whose ideas generation had mostly been wiped out in the great survived had long ago been terrified into complete alive who could give you a truthful account of it could only be a prole. Suddenly the passage his diary came back into Winston's mind, and a the pub, he would scrape acquaintance with that 'Tell me about your life when you were a boy. better than they are now, or were they worse?' frightened, he descended the steps and crossed the there was no definite rule against talking to far too unusual an action to pass unnoticed. If of faintness, but it was not likely that they and a hideous cheesy smell of sour beer hit voices dropped to about half its volume. Behind overalls. A game of darts which was going on at perhaps as much as thirty seconds. The old man having some kind of altercation with the barman, forearms. A knot of others, standing round with 'I arst you civil enough, didn't I?' said pugnaciously. 'You telling me you ain't got 'And what in hell's name IS leaning forward with the tips ''Ark at 'im! Calls 'isself a barman and the 'alf of a quart, and there's four quarts to 'Never heard of 'em,' said the litre--that's all we serve. There's the 'I likes a pint,' persisted the old pint easy enough. We didn't 'ave these 'When you were a young man we were all with a glance at the other customers. There was a shout of laughter, and the uneasiness The old man's white-stubbled face had flushed and bumped into Winston. Winston 'May I offer you a drink?' he said. 'You're a gent,' said the other, straightening noticed Winston's blue overalls. 'Pint!' he added The barman swished two half-litres of dark-brown a bucket under the counter. Beer was the only were supposed not to drink gin, though in practice of darts was in full swing again, and the knot tickets. Winston's presence was forgotten for a where he and the old man could talk without fear at any rate there was no telescreen in the room, ''E could 'a drawed me off a pint,' down behind a glass. 'A 'alf litre a 'ole litre's too much. It starts my 'You must have seen great changes since you The old man's pale blue eyes moved from the darts the Gents, as though it were in the bar-room 'The beer was better,' he said finally. mild beer--wallop we used to That was before the war, of course.' 'It's all wars,' said the old man and his shoulders straightened again. In his lean throat the sharp-pointed Adam's apple and the beer vanished. Winston went to the The old man appeared to have forgotten his 'You are very much older than I am,' said Winston. You can remember what it was like in the old don't really know anything about those times. it says in the books may not be true. I should say that life before the Revolution was completely terrible oppression, injustice, poverty worse the great mass of the people never had enough to boots on their feet. They worked twelve they slept ten in a room. And at the only a few thousands--the capitalists, they were everything that there was to own. They lived in rode about in motor-cars and four-horse carriages, The old man brightened suddenly. 'Top 'ats!' he said. 'Funny you come into my 'ead only yesterday, I ain't seen a top 'at in years. Gorn right at my sister-in-law's funeral. And that but it must'a been fifty years ago. Of course it 'It isn't very important about the top these capitalists--they and a few lawyers and the lords of the earth. Everything existed the workers--were their slaves. They could do off to Canada like cattle. They could sleep order you to be flogged with something called off when you passed them. Every capitalist The old man brightened again. 'Lackeys!' he said. 'Now there's a word I ain't takes me back, that does. I recollect--oh, donkey's a Sunday afternoon to 'ear the blokes making Jews, Indians--all sorts there was. And there was but a real powerful speaker 'e was. 'E didn't of the bourgeoisie! Flunkies of the ruling class!&quot; definitely called 'em 'yenas. Of course 'e was Winston had the feeling that they 'What I really wanted to know was you have more freedom now than you more like a human being? In the old days, 'The 'Ouse of Lords,' put in 'The House of Lords, if you like. What I treat you as an inferior, simply because they for instance, that you had to call them &quot;Sir&quot; The old man appeared to think deeply. He drank 'Yes,' he said. 'They liked you to touch like. I didn't agree with it, myself, but I 'And was it usual--I'm only quoting what these people and their servants to push 'One of 'em pushed me once,' said the old man. Boat Race night--terribly rowdy they used to young bloke on Shaftesbury Avenue. Quite a gent, was kind of zig-zagging across the pavement, &quot;Why can't you look where you're going?&quot; the bleeding pavement?&quot; 'E says, &quot;I'll twist your &quot;You're drunk. I'll give you in charge in 'alf 'e puts 'is 'and on my chest and gives me a of a bus. Well, I was young in them days, and A sense of helplessness took hold of Winston. The of details. One could question him all day without might still be true, after a fashion: they might 'Perhaps I have not made myself clear,' he said. alive a very long time; you lived half your life you were already grown up. Would you say from better than it is now, or worse? If you could The old man looked meditatively at the more slowly than before. When he spoke as though the beer had mellowed him. 'I know what you expect me to say,' he said. again. Most people'd say they'd sooner be and strength when you're young. When you get suffer something wicked from my feet, and my a night it 'as me out of bed. On the other old man. You ain't got the same worries. No ain't 'ad a woman for near on thirty year, if Winston sat back against the window-sill. It was beer when the old man suddenly got up and shuffled the room. The extra half-litre was already working his empty glass, and hardly noticed when his Within twenty years at the most, he reflected, before the Revolution than it is now?' would have effect it was unanswerable even now, since the few incapable of comparing one age with another. quarrel with a workmate, a hunt for a lost bicycle the swirls of dust on a windy morning seventy outside the range of their vision. They were like ones. And when memory failed and written records the Party to have improved the conditions of there did not exist, and never again could exist, At this moment his train of thought up. He was in a narrow street, interspersed among dwelling-houses. three discoloured metal balls which looked as the place. Of course! He was standing outside A twinge of fear went through him. It had been beginning, and he had sworn never to come that he allowed his thoughts to wander, his feet It was precisely against suicidal impulses of by opening the diary. At the same time he noticed shop was still open. With the feeling that he about on the pavement, he stepped through the say that he was trying to buy razor blades. lamp which gave off an unclean but friendly smell. with a long, benevolent nose, and mild eyes almost white, but his eyebrows were bushy fussy movements, and the fact that he was wearing air of intellectuality, as though he had been some voice was soft, as though faded, and his accent 'I recognized you on the pavement,' he that bought the young lady's keepsake that was. Cream-laid, it used to be called. I dare say fifty years.' He peered at 'Is there anything special I can do for 'I was passing,' said Winston vaguely. 'I just 'It's just as well,' said the other, 'because I an apologetic gesture with his softpalmed you might say. Between you and me, the antique and no stock either. Furniture, china, glass course the metal stuff's mostly been melted down. The tiny interior of the shop was in fact in it of the slightest value. The floorspace was stacked innumerable dusty picture-frames. In worn-out chisels, penknives with broken blades, in going order, and other miscellaneous rubbish. litter of odds and ends--lacquered snuffboxes, though they might include something interesting. caught by a round, smooth thing that gleamed It was a heavy lump of glass, curved making almost a hemisphere. There was in both the colour and the texture of the glass. surface, there was a strange, pink, convoluted 'What is it?' said Winston, fascinated. 'That's coral, that is,' said the the Indian Ocean. They used to That wasn't made less than a hundred 'It's a beautiful thing,' said Winston. 'It is a beautiful thing,' said the other say so nowadays.' He coughed. 'Now, if that'd cost you four dollars. I can have fetched eight pounds, and eight pounds a lot of money. But who cares about genuine Winston immediately paid over the four his pocket. What appealed to him about it was to possess of belonging to an age quite rainwatery glass was not like any thing was doubly attractive because of its that it must once have been intended as a but fortunately it did not make much of a bulge. for a Party member to have in his possession. beautiful, was always vaguely suspect. The old receiving the four dollars. Winston realized 'There's another room upstairs that you might much in it. Just a few pieces. We'll do He lit another lamp, and, with bowed back, led the a tiny passage, into a room which did not give and a forest of chimney-pots. Winston noticed the room were meant to be lived in. There was two on the walls, and a deep, slatternly arm-chair clock with a twelve-hour face was ticking and occupying nearly a quarter of the room, was 'We lived here till my wife died,' said the furniture off by little and little. Now that's be if you could get the bugs out of it. But I He was holding the lamp high up, and in the warm dim light the place looked Winston's mind that it would probably be quite if he dared to take the risk. It was a wild, as thought of; but the room had awakened in memory. It seemed to him that he knew exactly in an arm-chair beside an open fire with your utterly alone, utterly secure, with nobody no sound except the singing of the kettle 'There's no telescreen!' he 'Ah,' said the old man, 'I never had one never seemed to feel the need of it, somehow. there. Though of course you'd have to put new There was a small bookcase in the other corner, contained nothing but rubbish. The hunting-down same thoroughness in the prole quarters as there existed anywhere in Oceania a copy of a still carrying the lamp, was standing frame which hung on the other side 'Now, if you happen to be interested in Winston came across to examine the picture. It rectangular windows, and a small tower in front. and at the rear end there was what appeared moments. It seemed vaguely familiar, 'The frame's fixed to the wall,' said the old 'I know that building,' said Winston finally. 'It's a ruin now. It's in the middle of 'That's right. Outside the Law Courts. It church at one time, Saint Clement Danes, as though conscious of saying and added: 'Oranges and lemons, 'What's that?' said Winston. 'Oh--&quot;Oranges and lemons, say the bells of when I was a little boy. How it goes on I &quot;Here comes a candle to light you to bed, Here a kind of a dance. They held out their arms &quot;Here comes a chopper to chop off your head&quot; they just names of churches. All the London churches Winston wondered vaguely to what century the determine the age of a London building. Anything in appearance, was automatically claimed while anything that was obviously of earlier date Ages. The centuries of capitalism were held to not learn history from architecture any more inscriptions, memorial stones, the throw light upon the past had 'I never knew it had been a church,' he said. 'There's a lot of them left, really,' said the old how did that rhyme go? Ah! I've got it! Clement's,You owe me three farthings, there, now, that's as far that was a small copper coin, 'Where was Saint Martin's?' said Winston. 'Saint Martin's? That's still standing. It's in building with a kind of a triangular porch and Winston knew the place well. It displays of various kinds--scale models waxwork tableaux illustrating 'Saint Martin's-in-the-Fields it used 'though I don't recollect any Winston did not buy the picture. It would have glass paperweight, and impossible to carry home, lingered for some minutes more, talking to the old one might have gathered from the inscription over it seemed, was a widower aged sixty-three and had that time he had been intending to alter the name point of doing it. All the while that they were through Winston's head. Oranges and lemons say farthings, say the bells of Saint Martin's! It was the illusion of actually hearing bells, the bells other, disguised and forgotten. From one ghostly pealing forth. Yet so far as he could remember he He got away from Mr Charrington so as not to let the old man see him reconnoitring already made up his mind that after a suitable of visiting the shop again. It was perhaps not Centre. The serious piece of folly had been buying the diary and without knowing whether the Yes, he thought again, he would come beautiful rubbish. He would buy the engraving of and carry it home concealed under the jacket that poem out of Mr Charrington's memory. room upstairs flashed momentarily through exaltation made him careless, and he stepped preliminary glance through the window. He had Oranges and lemons, say the You owe me three farthings, say the... Suddenly his heart seemed to turn to ice and his coming down the pavement, not ten metres away. the girl with dark hair. The light was failing, She looked him straight in the face, then walked For a few seconds Winston was too paralysed to heavily away, not noticing for the moment that one question was settled. There was no doubting must have followed him here, because it was not happened to be walking on the same evening up from any quarter where Party members lived. It really an agent of the Thought Police, or simply mattered. It was enough that she was watching him. It was an effort to walk. The lump of glass in and he was half minded to take it out and in his belly. For a couple of minutes he had reach a lavatory soon. But there would be no the spasm passed, leaving a dull ache behind. stood for several seconds wondering vaguely what his steps. As he turned it occurred to him that and that by running he could probably catch they were in some quiet place, and then smash glass in his pocket would be heavy enough for because even the thought of making any physical he could not strike a blow. Besides, she was thought also of hurrying to the Community Centre establish a partial alibi for the evening. But taken hold of him. All he wanted was to get It was after twenty-two hours when he be switched off at the main at twenty-three nearly a teacupful of Victory Gin. Then he and took the diary out of the drawer. But he did female voice was squalling a patriotic song. He trying without success to shut the It was at night that they came for you, always before they got you. Undoubtedly some people suicides. But it needed desperate courage or any quick and certain poison, were kind of astonishment of the biological uselessness which always freezes into inertia at exactly the have silenced the dark-haired girl if only he had extremity of his danger he had lost the power to is never fighting against an external enemy, in spite of the gin, the dull ache in his And it is the same, he perceived, in all seemingly in the torture chamber, on a sinking ship, the forgotten, because the body swells up until not paralysed by fright or screaming with against hunger or cold or sleeplessness, He opened the diary. It was important to write had started a new song. Her voice seemed to glass. He tried to think of O'Brien, for but instead he began thinking of the things Police took him away. It would not matter if you expected. But before death (nobody spoke there was the routine of confession that had to screaming for mercy, the crack of broken bones, Why did you have to endure it, since the possible to cut a few days or weeks out of and nobody ever failed to confess. When it was certain that by a given date you which altered nothing, have to He tried with a little more success than before meet in the place where there is no darkness,' or thought he knew. The place where there which one would never see, but which, by But with the voice from the telescreen nagging at further. He put a cigarette in his mouth. Half a bitter dust which was difficult to spit out displacing that of O'Brien. Just as he had done pocket and looked at it. The face gazed up at of smile was hidden beneath the dark moustache? &quot;War Is Peace. Freedom Is Slavery. Part Two. It was the middle of the morning, and Winston A solitary figure was coming towards him from the was the girl with dark hair. Four days had gone outside the junk-shop. As she came nearer not noticeable at a distance because it was of had crushed her hand while swinging round plots of novels were 'roughed in'. It was a They were perhaps four metres apart when her face. A sharp cry of pain was wrung out of arm. Winston stopped short. The girl had milky yellow colour against which her mouth stood with an appealing expression that A curious emotion stirred in Winston's heart. kill him: in front of him, also, was a human bone. Already he had instinctively started had seen her fall on the bandaged arm, it had 'You're hurt?' he said. 'It's nothing. My arm. It'll She spoke as though her heart were fluttering. 'You haven't broken anything?' 'No, I'm all right. It hurt She held out her free hand to him, and he helped her up. She had regained some 'It's nothing,' she repeated shortly. 'I only And with that she walked on in the direction in it had really been nothing. The whole incident to let one's feelings appear in one's face was a and in any case they had been standing thing happened. Nevertheless it had been very for in the two or three seconds while he was into his hand. There was no question that she had flat. As he passed through the lavatory felt it with the tips of his fingers. It While he stood at the urinal he to get it unfolded. Obviously there must For a moment he was tempted to take it it at once. But that would be shocking place where you could be more certain that He went back to his cubicle, sat down, threw the on the desk, put on his spectacles and hitched he told himself, 'five minutes at the very frightening loudness. Fortunately the piece the rectification of a long list of Whatever was written on the paper, it must have could see there were two possibilities. One, an agent of the Thought Police, just as he had should choose to deliver their messages in such The thing that was written on the paper might be a trap of some description. But there was another, though he tried vainly to suppress it. This was, Police at all, but from some kind of underground after all! Perhaps the girl was part of it! No his mind in the very instant of feeling the scrap of minutes later that the other, more probable though his intellect told him that the message he believed, and the unreasonable hope persisted, that he kept his voice from trembling as he He rolled up the completed bundle of work and had gone by. He re-adjusted his spectacles on work towards him, with the scrap of paper on top in a large unformed handwriting: For several seconds he was too stunned even to hole. When he did so, although he knew very he could not resist reading it once again, just For the rest of the morning it was very difficult his mind on a series of niggling jobs from the telescreen. He felt as though a fire were noise-filled canteen was torment. He had hoped to but as bad luck would have it the imbecile Parsons almost defeating the tinny smell of stew, and for Hate Week. He was particularly enthusiastic two metres wide, which was being made for the irritating thing was that in the racket of voices and was constantly having to ask for some caught a glimpse of the girl, at a table the room. She appeared not to have seen him, The afternoon was more bearable. Immediately difficult piece of work which would take several aside. It consisted in falsifying a series in such a way as to cast discredit on who was now under a cloud. This was the and for more than two hours he succeeded in Then the memory of her face came back, and alone. Until he could be alone it was impossible one of his nights at the Community Centre. He hurried off to the Centre, took part in played two games of table tennis, swallowed through a lecture entitled 'Ingsoc in relation once he had had no impulse to shirk his evening at the desire to stay alive had welled up in him, and It was not till twenty-three hours, when he was safe even from the telescreen so long as you kept It was a physical problem that had to be solved: a meeting. He did not consider any longer the trap for him. He knew that it was not so, because the note. Obviously she had been frightened out idea of refusing her advances even cross his smashing her skull in with a cobblestone, but that youthful body, as he had seen it in his dream. He her head stuffed with lies and hatred, her him at the thought that he might lose her, the What he feared more than anything else was did not get in touch with her quickly. But the It was like trying to make a move at chess when the telescreen faced you. Actually, all her had occurred to him within five minutes of he went over them one by one, as though Obviously the kind of encounter that had happened worked in the Records Department it might have dim idea whereabouts in the building the Fiction there. If he had known where she lived, and at to meet her somewhere on her way home; but to would mean loitering about outside the Ministry, a letter through the mails, it was out of the all letters were opened in transit. Actually, few it was occasionally necessary to send, there were you struck out the ones that were inapplicable. let alone her address. Finally he decided that the at a table by herself, somewhere in the middle of a sufficient buzz of conversation all round--if it might be possible to exchange a few words. dream. On the next day she did not appear the whistle having already blown. Presumably she each other without a glance. On the day after but with three other girls and immediately under not appear at all. His whole mind and body seemed a sort of transparency, which made every movement, to speak or listen to, an agony. Even in sleep He did not touch the diary during those days. in which he could sometimes forget himself for ten to what had happened to her. There was no enquiry she might have committed suicide, she might have worst and likeliest of all, she might simply The next day she reappeared. Her arm was out of round her wrist. The relief of seeing her was so at her for several seconds. On the following her. When he came into the canteen she was and was quite alone. It was early, and the place Winston was almost at the counter, then was front was complaining that he had not received his when Winston secured his tray and began to make his eyes searching for a place at some table from him. Another two seconds would do it. Then a to hear. 'Smith!' repeated the voice, more loudly. silly-faced young man named Wilsher, whom he a vacant place at his table. It was not safe to not go and sit at a table with an unattended a friendly smile. The silly blond face beamed smashing a pick-axe right into the middle of it. But she must have seen him coming towards her, and care to arrive early. Surely enough, she was at The person immediately ahead of him in the queue a flat face and tiny, suspicious eyes. As Winston he saw that the little man was making straight was a vacant place at a table further away, but that he would be sufficiently attentive to his ice at his heart Winston followed. It was no use there was a tremendous crash. The little man was two streams of soup and coffee were flowing a malignant glance at Winston, whom he evidently all right. Five seconds later, with a thundering He did not look at her. He unpacked his tray to speak at once, before anyone else came, of him. A week had gone by since she had first she must have changed her mind! It was impossible such things did not happen in real life. He might moment he had not seen Ampleforth, the hairy-eared looking for a place to sit down. In his and would certainly sit down at his table if minute in which to act. Both Winston and the eating was a thin stew, actually a soup, of speaking. Neither of them looked up; steadily and between spoonfuls exchanged the few 'What time do you leave work?' 'Eighteen-thirty.' 'Where can we meet?' 'Victory Square, near the monument.' 'It's full of telescreens.' 'It doesn't matter if there's a crowd.' 'Any signal?' 'No. Don't come up to me until you see me among a lot of people. And don't look at 'What time?' 'Nineteen hours.' 'All right.' Ampleforth failed to see Winston and sat down and, so far as it was possible for two people they did not look at one another. The girl while Winston stayed to smoke a cigarette. Winston was in Victory Square before the appointed fluted column, at the top of which Big Brother's he had vanquished the Eurasian aeroplanes a few years ago) in the Battle of Airstrip One. In man on horseback which was supposed to represent girl had still not appeared. Again the terrible she had changed her mind! He walked slowly up of pale-coloured pleasure from identifying St had chimed 'You owe me three farthings.' Then he reading or pretending to read a poster which ran near her until some more people had accumulated. at this moment there was a din of shouting and left. Suddenly everyone seemed to be running round the lions at the base of the monument and he gathered from some shouted remarks that Already a dense mass of people was blocking the the kind of person who gravitates to the outer squirmed his way forward into the heart of the girl, but the way was blocked by an enormous presumably his wife, who seemed to form an himself sideways, and with a violent lunge managed it felt as though his entrails were being ground broken through, sweating a little. He was next both staring fixedly in front of them. wooden-faced guards armed with sub-machine was passing slowly down the street. In the trucks squatting, jammed close together. Their sad, the trucks utterly incurious. Occasionally when all the prisoners were wearing leg-irons. passed. Winston knew they were there but he saw and her arm right down to the elbow, were pressed him to feel its warmth. She had immediately done in the canteen. She began speaking in the barely moving, a mere murmur easily drowned by 'Can you hear me?' 'Yes.' 'Can you get Sunday afternoon off?' 'Yes.' 'Then listen carefully. You'll have to With a sort of military precision that that he was to follow. A half-hour railway two kilometres along the road; a gate with a grass-grown lane; a track between bushes; she had a map inside her head. 'Can you 'Yes.' 'You turn left, then right, then left 'Yes. What time?' 'About fifteen. You may have to wait. I'll get there by another way. Are you 'Yes.' 'Then get away from me as quick as you can.' She need not have told him that. But for the the crowd. The trucks were still filing past, the had been a few boos and hisses, but it came and had soon stopped. The prevailing emotion was or from Eastasia, were a kind of strange animal. of prisoners, and even as prisoners one never did one know what became of them, apart from the simply vanished, presumably into forced-labour faces of a more European type, dirty, bearded looked into Winston's, sometimes with strange was drawing to an end. In the last truck he could standing upright with wrists crossed in front bound together. It was almost time for Winston while the crowd still hemmed them in, her hand It could not have been ten seconds, and yet it together. He had time to learn every detail the shapely nails, the work-hardened palm under the wrist. Merely from feeling it he would occurred to him that he did not know what colour but people with dark hair sometimes had blue eyes. inconceivable folly. With hands locked together, steadily in front of them, and instead of the eyes mournfully at Winston out of nests of hair. Winston picked his way up the lane stepping out into pools of gold wherever the of him the ground was misty with bluebells. The of May. From somewhere deeper in the heart He was a bit early. There had been no difficulties experienced that he was less frightened than he be trusted to find a safe place. In general in the country than in London. There were no the danger of concealed microphones by which your it was not easy to make a journey by yourself less than 100 kilometres it was not necessary to were patrols hanging about the railway stations, found there and asked awkward questions. However, station he had made sure by cautious backward train was full of proles, in holiday mood because in which he travelled was filled to overflowing by great-grandmother to a month-old baby, going country, and, as they freely explained to Winston, The lane widened, and in a minute he a mere cattle-track which plunged but it could not be fifteen yet. The bluebells not to tread on them. He knelt down and began but also from a vague idea that he would like to they met. He had got together a big bunch and was his back froze him, the unmistakable crackle of It was the best thing to do. It might be the girl, round was to show guilt. He picked another and He looked up. It was the girl. She shook her head, then parted the bushes and quickly led the way she had been that way before, for she dodged the still clasping his bunch of flowers. His first slender body moving in front of him, with to bring out the curve of her hips, the sense of it seemed quite likely that when she turned round The sweetness of the air and the greenness of from the station the May sunshine had made him with the sooty dust of London in the pores of his probably never seen him in broad daylight in the spoken of. The girl hopped over and forced apart opening. When Winston followed her, he found grassy knoll surrounded by tall saplings that shut 'Here we are,' she said. He was facing her at several paces' distance. 'I didn't want to say anything 'in case there's a mike hidden there. I There's always the chance of one of those swine He still had not the courage to approach her. 'Yes. Look at the trees.' They were small and had sprouted up again into a forest wrist. 'There's nothing big enough to hide They were only making conversation. He had before him very upright, with a smile on her face wondering why he was so slow to act. The bluebells fallen of their own accord. He took her hand. moment I didn't know what colour your a rather light shade of brown, with dark lashes. can you still bear to look at me?' 'I'm thirty-nine years old. I've got a wife that I can't get rid of. I've got varicose 'I couldn't care less,' said the girl. The next moment, it was hard to say by whose he had no feeling except sheer incredulity. The mass of dark hair was against his face, and yes! kissing the wide red mouth. She had clasped her precious one, loved one. He had pulled her down he could do what he liked with her. But the truth of mere contact. All he felt was incredulity but he had no physical desire. It was too soon, he was too much used to living without women--he up and pulled a bluebell out of her hair. She 'Never mind, dear. There's no hurry. this a splendid hide-out? I found it hike. If anyone was coming you could 'What is your name?' said Winston. 'Julia. I know yours. It's Winston--Winston Smith.' 'How did you find that out?' 'I expect I'm better at finding things what did you think of me before He did not feel any temptation even a sort of love-offering to 'I hated the sight of you,' he said. 'I wanted to ago I thought seriously of smashing your head in I imagined that you had something The girl laughed delightedly, evidently taking this as a tribute 'Not the Thought Police! You 'Well, perhaps not exactly that. But because you're young and fresh and healthy, 'You thought I was a good Party member. slogans, games, community hikes all that quarter of a chance I'd denounce you as a 'Yes, something of that kind. A great 'It's this bloody thing that does it,' she Junior Anti-Sex League and flinging it on to had reminded her of something, she felt in the of chocolate. She broke it in half and gave had taken it he knew by the smell that it was and was wrapped in silver paper. Chocolate as nearly as one could describe it, like the another he had tasted chocolate like the piece had stirred up some memory which he could not 'Where did you get this stuff?' he said. 'Black market,' she said indifferently. 'Actually games. I was a troop-leader in the Spies. I the Junior Anti-Sex League. Hours and hours London. I always carry one end of a banner in never shirk anything. Always yell with the crowd, The first fragment of chocolate had melted on But there was still that memory moving something strongly felt but not like an object seen out of the corner of aware only that it was the memory of some action 'You are very young,' he said. 'You than I am. What could you see to 'It was something in your face. I thought people who don't belong. As soon as I THEM, it appeared, meant the Party, and above an open jeering hatred which made Winston feel here if they could be safe anywhere. A thing that her language. Party members were supposed not to aloud, at any rate. Julia, however, and especially the Inner Party, without using the alley-ways. He did not dislike it. It was merely all its ways, and somehow it seemed natural and bad hay. They had left the clearing and were with their arms round each other's waists whenever how much softer her waist seemed to feel now that whisper. Outside the clearing, Julia said, it was the edge of the little wood. She stopped him. someone watching. We're all right They were standing in the shade of hazel bushes. leaves, was still hot on their faces. Winston a curious, slow shock of recognition. He knew with a footpath wandering across it and a on the opposite side the boughs of the elm and their leaves stirred faintly in dense masses but out of sight, there must be a stream 'Isn't there a stream somewhere 'That's right, there is a stream. It's at the edge great big ones. You can watch them lying in the 'It's the Golden Country--almost,' he murmured. 'The Golden Country?' 'It's nothing, really. A landscape 'Look!' whispered Julia. A thrush had alighted on a bough not five faces. Perhaps it had not seen them. It was in the fitted them carefully into place as though making a sort of obeisance to the sun, In the afternoon hush the volume of sound was fascinated. The music went on and on, minute never once repeating itself, almost as though the Sometimes it stopped for a few seconds, spread out breast and again burst into song. Winston watched for what, was that bird singing? No mate, no the edge of the lonely wood and pour its music there was a microphone hidden somewhere near. and it would not pick up what they had said, but end of the instrument some small, beetle-like man degrees the flood of music drove all speculations of liquid stuff that poured all over him and through the leaves. He stopped thinking and merely soft and warm. He pulled her round so that they into his. Wherever his hands moved it was all as it was quite different from the hard kisses they apart again both of them sighed deeply. The bird Winston put his lips against 'Not here,' she whispered back. 'Come Quickly, with an occasional crackle of twigs, they were once inside the ring of saplings she turned the smile had reappeared round the corners of her then felt at the zipper of her overalls. Almost as swiftly as he had imagined it, she them aside it was with that same magnificent to be annihilated. Her body gleamed white in the his eyes were anchored by the freckled face her and took her hands in his. 'Of course. Hundreds of times--well, 'With Party members?' 'Yes, always with Party members.' 'With members of the Inner Party?' 'Not with those swine, no. But they got half a chance. They're His heart leapt. Scores of times she had done Anything that hinted at corruption always perhaps the Party was rotten under the surface, a sham concealing iniquity. If he could leprosy or syphilis, how gladly he would to undermine! He pulled her down so 'Listen. The more men you've had, the 'Yes, perfectly.' 'I hate purity, I hate goodness! I don't want any virtue to exist anywhere. I want 'Well then, I ought to suit you, 'You like doing this? I don't mean 'I adore it.' That was above all what he wanted to hear. animal instinct, the simple undifferentiated Party to pieces. He pressed her down upon the there was no difficulty. Presently the rising and and in a sort of pleasant helplessness they hotter. They were both sleepy. He reached them partly over her. Almost immediately they Winston woke first. He sat up and watched pillowed on the palm of her hand. Except for her was a line or two round the eyes, if you looked thick and soft. It occurred to him that he still The young, strong body, now helpless in sleep, the mindless tenderness that he had felt under had not quite come back. He pulled the overalls old days, he thought, a man looked at a girl's the end of the story. But you could not have pure because everything was mixed up with fear the climax a victory. It was a blow struck Chapter 3. 'We can come here once again,' said any hide-out twice. But not for As soon as she woke up her demeanour had put her clothes on, knotted the scarlet sash about journey home. It seemed natural to leave this to Winston lacked, and she seemed also to have an London, stored away from innumerable community from the one by which he had come, and brought home the same way as you went out,' she said, principle. She would leave first, and Winston She had named a place where they could meet after of the poorer quarters, where there was an open She would be hanging about among the stalls, sewing-thread. If she judged that the coast was otherwise he was to walk past her without of the crowd, it would be safe to talk for a 'And now I must go,' she said as soon as due back at nineteen-thirty. I've got to put handing out leaflets, or something. would you? Have I got any twigs in my hair? Are She flung herself into his arms, kissed him her way through the saplings and disappeared into not found out her surname or her address. inconceivable that they could ever meet indoors As it happened, they never went back to the there was only one further occasion on which was in another hiding-place known to Julia, the stretch of country where an atomic bomb had fallen when once you got there, but the getting there only in the streets, in a different place every a time. In the street it was usually possible the crowded pavements, not quite abreast and never intermittent conversation which flicked suddenly nipped into silence by the approach of then taken up again minutes later in the middle of at the agreed spot, then continued almost without to be quite used to this kind of conversation, was also surprisingly adept at speaking without nightly meetings they managed to exchange a kiss. (Julia would never speak when they were away from the earth heaved, and the air darkened, and bruised and terrified. A rocket bomb must have aware of Julia's face a few centimetres from her lips were white. She was dead! He clasped a live warm face. But there was some powdery their faces were thickly coated with plaster. rendezvous and then had to walk past one another round the corner or a helicopter was hovering it would still have been difficult to find time Julia's was even longer, and their free days did not often coincide. Julia, in any case, spent an astonishing amount of time in distributing literature for the junior Anti-Sex making collections for the savings campaign, it was camouflage. If you kept the small rules, Winston to mortgage yet another of his evenings work which was done voluntarily by zealous Party spent four hours of paralysing boredom, screwing parts of bomb fuses, in a draughty, ill-lit drearily with the music of the telescreens. their fragmentary conversation were filled the little square chamber above the bells was hot dung. They sat talking for hours on the dusty, up from time to time to cast a glance through the Julia was twenty-six years old. She lived in a stink of women! How I hate women!' she as he had guessed, on the novel-writing machines which consisted chiefly in running electric motor. She was 'not clever', but home with machinery. She could describe from the general directive issued by the Planning Rewrite Squad. But she was not interested in reading,' she said. Books were just a commodity She had no memories of anything before the ever known who talked frequently of the days had disappeared when she was eight. At school won the gymnastics trophy two years running. She secretary in the Youth League before joining the excellent character. She had even (an infallible work in Pornosec, the sub-section of the Fiction distribution among the proles. It was nicknamed she remarked. There she had remained for a year, titles like 'Spanking Stories' or 'One Night proletarian youths who were under the impression 'What are these books like?' 'Oh, ghastly rubbish. They're boring, but they swap them round a bit. Of I was never in the Rewrite Squad. I'm not He learned with astonishment that all the workers were girls. The theory was that men, whose those of women, were in greater danger of 'They don't even like having married women to be so pure. Here's one who isn't, anyway. sixteen, with a Party member of sixty who later job too,' said Julia, 'otherwise they'd have had there had been various others. Life as she saw it meaning the Party, wanted to stop you having it; to think it just as natural that 'they' should should want to avoid being caught. She hated but she made no general criticism of it. Except interest in Party doctrine. He noticed that she had passed into everyday use. She had never heard existence. Any kind of organized revolt against her as stupid. The clever thing was to break the vaguely how many others like her there might be in the world of the Revolution, knowing nothing else, like the sky, not rebelling against its authority They did not discuss the possibility of getting about. No imaginable committee would ever Winston's wife, could somehow have been got 'What was she like, your wife?' said Julia. 'She was--do you know the Newspeak word incapable of thinking a bad thought?' 'No, I didn't know the word, but I He began telling her the story of his married the essential parts of it already. She described the stiffening of Katharine's body as soon as he be pushing him from her with all her strength, him. With Julia he felt no difficulty in any case, had long ceased to be a painful 'I could have stood it if it hadn't been for one little ceremony that Katharine had forced him hated it, but nothing would make her stop doing 'Our duty to the Party,' said Julia promptly. 'How did you know that?' 'I've been at school too, dear. Sex talks the Youth Movement. They rub it into in a lot of cases. But of course you can She began to enlarge upon the subject. With Julia, as this was touched upon in any way she was she had grasped the inner meaning of not merely that the sex instinct created Party's control and which therefore had important was that sexual privation induced could be transformed into war-fever and 'When you make love you're using up energy; and for anything. They can't bear you to feel like all the time. All this marching up and down gone sour. If you're happy inside yourself, and the Three-Year Plans and the Two Minutes That was very true, he thought. There was a and political orthodoxy. For how could the which the Party needed in its members be kept some powerful instinct and using it as a driving and the Party had turned it to account. instinct of parenthood. The family could not were encouraged to be fond of their children, on the other hand, were systematically to spy on them and report their deviations. of the Thought Police. It was a device by means day by informers who knew him intimately. Katharine would unquestionably have denounced him be too stupid to detect the unorthodoxy of to him at this moment was the stifling heat out on his forehead. He began telling or rather had failed to happen, on another It was three or four months after they were hike somewhere in Kent. They had only lagged but they took a wrong turning, and up short by the edge of an old chalk quarry. with boulders at the bottom. There was nobody realized that they were lost Katharine became hikers even for a moment gave her a feeling of way they had come and start searching in the other tufts of loosestrife growing in the cracks of the magenta and brick-red, apparently growing on the kind before, and he called to 'Look, Katharine! Look at those bottom. Do you see they're two different colours?' She had already turned to go, but she did rather out over the cliff face to see where he was and he put his hand on her waist to steady to him how completely alone they were. not a leaf stirring, not even a bird awake. would be a hidden microphone was very small, only pick up sounds. It was the hottest blazed down upon them, the sweat tickled 'Why didn't you give her a good 'Yes, dear, you would have. I would, if I'd been the same person then as I am 'Are you sorry you didn't?' 'Yes. On the whole I'm sorry I didn't.' They were sitting side by side on the dusty head rested on his shoulder, the pleasant dung. She was very young, he thought, she did not understand that to push an 'Actually it would have made 'Then why are you sorry you didn't do it?' 'Only because I prefer a positive to a we can't win. Some kinds of failure are He felt her shoulders give a wriggle of dissent. of this kind. She would not accept it as a law of a way she realized that she herself was doomed, catch her and kill her, but with another part of to construct a secret world in which you could cunning and boldness. She did not understand that the only victory lay in the far that from the moment of declaring war on the Party 'We are the dead,' he said. 'We're not dead yet,' said Julia prosaically. conceivably. I am afraid of death. You are it than I am. Obviously we shall put it off difference. So long as human beings stay 'Oh, rubbish! Which would you sooner sleep with, me or a skeleton? Don't you enjoy being this is my hand, this is my leg, I'm real, She twisted herself round and pressed her bosom firm, through her overalls. Her body seemed to 'Yes, I like that,' he said. 'Then stop talking about dying. And now the next time we meet. We may as well given it a good long rest. But you must I've got it all planned out. You take the And in her practical way she scraped together pigeon's nest began drawing a map on the floor. Winston looked round the shabby little room above Mr Charrington's shop. Beside the with ragged blankets and a coverless bolster. face was ticking away on the mantelpiece. In paperweight which he had bought on his last In the fender was a battered tin provided by Mr Charrington. Winston lit the had brought an envelope full of Victory Coffee said seventeen-twenty: it was nineteen-twenty Folly, folly, his heart kept saying: conscious, that a Party member could commit, this one was had first floated into his head in the form of a surface of the gateleg table. As he had foreseen, letting the room. He was obviously glad of the few shocked or become offensively knowing when it was purpose of a love-affair. Instead he looked into with so delicate an air as to give the impression said, was a very valuable thing. Everyone wanted a when they had such a place, it was only common his knowledge to himself. He even, seeming almost there were two entries to the house, one of them Under the window somebody was singing. Winston muslin curtain. The June sun was still high a monstrous woman, solid as a Norman pillar, strapped about her middle, was stumping to pegging out a series of square white things Whenever her mouth was not corked with clothes It was only an 'opeless fancy. But a look an' a word an' the dreams they stirred! The tune had been haunting London for weeks published for the benefit of the proles by a of these songs were composed without any human a versificator. But the woman sang so tunefully pleasant sound. He could hear the woman singing and the cries of the children in the street, of traffic, and yet the room seemed curiously Folly, folly, folly! he thought again. It was for more than a few weeks without being caught. was truly their own, indoors and near at hand, time after their visit to the church belfry it had had been drastically increased in anticipation but the enormous, complex preparations that it Finally both of them managed to secure a free go back to the clearing in the wood. On the street. As usual, Winston hardly looked at Julia but from the short glance he gave her it 'It's all off,' she murmured as soon as she 'What?' 'Tomorrow afternoon. I can't come.' 'Why not?' 'Oh, the usual reason. It's For a moment he was violently angry. During his desire for her had changed. At the beginning first love-making had been simply an act of the The smell of her hair, the taste of her mouth, the or into the air all round him. She had become only wanted but felt that he had a right he had the feeling that she was cheating him. together and their hands accidentally met. She that seemed to invite not desire but affection. this particular disappointment must be a normal, he had not felt for her before, suddenly took couple of ten years' standing. He wished that he they were doing now but openly and without fear, for the household. He wished above all that they without feeling the obligation to make love every but at some time on the following day, that occurred to him. When he suggested it to Julia of them knew that it was lunacy. It was as though graves. As he sat waiting on the edge of the bed Love. It was curious how that predestined horror it lay, fixed in future times, preceding death as but one could perhaps postpone it: by a conscious, wilful act, one chose to At this moment there was a quick step on was carrying a tool-bag of coarse brown carrying to and fro at the Ministry. He but she disengaged herself rather hurriedly, 'Half a second,' she said. 'Just let me show that filthy Victory Coffee? I thought because we shan't be needing it. Look here.' She fell on her knees, threw open the bag, and that filled the top part of it. Underneath first packet that she passed to Winston had a was filled with some kind of heavy, sand-like 'It isn't sugar?' he said. 'Real sugar. Not saccharine, sugar. And not our bloody stuff--and a little pot of This is the one I'm really proud of. I had But she did not need to tell him why she had the room, a rich hot smell which seemed like an did occasionally meet with even now, blowing down itself mysteriously in a crowded street, 'It's coffee,' he murmured, 'real coffee.' 'It's Inner Party coffee. There's 'How did you manage to get 'It's all Inner Party stuff. There's nothing waiters and servants and people pinch things, Winston had squatted down beside her. 'It's real tea. Not blackberry leaves.' 'There's been a lot of tea about lately. They've 'But listen, dear. I want you to turn your the other side of the bed. Don't go too near the Winston gazed abstractedly through the red-armed woman was still marching line. She took two more pegs out of They sye that time 'eals all things, But the smiles an' the tears acrorss the years She knew the whole drivelling song by heart, it summer air, very tuneful, charged with a sort she would have been perfectly content, if the of clothes inexhaustible, to remain there for a rubbish. It struck him as a curious fact that alone and spontaneously. It would even have seemed like talking to oneself. Perhaps it was only when that they had anything to sing about. He turned round, and for a second almost actually expected was to see her naked. But had happened was much more surprising She must have slipped into some shop in the set of make-up materials. Her lips were deeply there was even a touch of something under the eyes done, but Winston's standards in such matters were woman of the Party with cosmetics on her face. The just a few dabs of colour in the right places but, above all, far more feminine. Her short effect. As he took her in his arms a wave of remembered the half-darkness of a basement was the very same scent that she had used; 'Scent too!' he said. 'Yes, dear, scent too. And do you know what of a real woman's frock from somewhere and wear it stockings and high-heeled shoes! In this room They flung their clothes off and climbed into the had stripped himself naked in her presence. Until meagre body, with the varicose veins standing over his ankle. There were no sheets, but the and the size and springiness of the bed astonished but who cares?' said Julia. One except in the homes of the proles. Winston Julia had never been in one before, Presently they fell asleep for a little while. crept round to nearly nine. He did not stir, the crook of his arm. Most of her make-up had but a light stain of rouge still brought out the sinking sun fell across the foot of the bed in the pan was boiling fast. Down in the yard shouts of children floated in from the street. past it had been a normal experience to lie in a man and a woman with no clothes on, making not feeling any compulsion to get up, simply outside. Surely there could never have been a rubbed her eyes, and raised herself 'Half that water's boiled away,' she said. moment. We've got an hour. What time do 'Twenty-three thirty.' 'It's twenty-three at the hostel. But because--Hi! Get out, you filthy brute!' She suddenly twisted herself over in and sent it hurtling into the corner with seen her fling the dictionary at Goldstein, 'What was it?' he said in surprise. 'A rat. I saw him stick his beastly a hole down there. I gave 'Rats!' murmured Winston. 'In this room!' indifferently as she lay down again. 'We've Some parts of London are swarming with them. they do. In some of these streets a woman It's the great huge brown ones that do it. And 'DON'T GO ON!' said Winston, 'Dearest! You've gone quite pale. What's 'Of all horrors in the world--a rat!' She pressed herself against him and wound her the warmth of her body. He did not reopen his had the feeling of being back in a nightmare his life. It was always very much the same. He and on the other side of it there was something In the dream his deepest feeling was always one of was behind the wall of darkness. With a deadly brain, he could even have dragged the thing into what it was: but somehow it was connected with 'I'm sorry,' he said, 'it's nothing. 'Don't worry, dear, we're not in here. I'll stuff the hole with a time we come here I'll bring some Already the black instant of panic was of himself, he sat up against the bedhead. and made the coffee. The smell that rose from the shut the window lest anybody outside should notice than the taste of the coffee was the silky texture almost forgotten after years of saccharine. With jam in the other, Julia wandered about the room, out the best way of repairing the gateleg table, to see if it was comfortable, and examining the amusement. She brought the glass paperweight over He took it out of her hand, fascinated, as always, 'What is it, do you think?' said Julia. 'I don't think it's anything--I mean, I That's what I like about it. It's a little to alter. It's a message from a hundred 'And that picture over there'--she opposite wall--'would that be a hundred years old?' 'More. Two hundred, I dare say. to discover the age of anything nowadays.' She went over to look at it. 'Here's where that wainscoting immediately below the picture. 'What 'It's a church, or at least it used to fragment of rhyme that Mr Charrington and he added half-nostalgically: &quot;Oranges To his astonishment she capped the line: 'You owe me three farthings, When will you pay me? say 'I can't remember how it goes on after &quot;Here comes a candle to light you to bed, It was like the two halves of be another line after 'the bells of out of Mr Charrington's memory, 'Who taught you that?' he said. 'My grandfather. He used to say it to me when was eight--at any rate, he disappeared. inconsequently. 'I've seen oranges. They're a 'I can remember lemons,' said Winston. They were so sour that it set your 'I bet that picture's got bugs behind it,' a good clean some day. I suppose it's almost this paint off. What a bore! I'll get Winston did not get up for a few minutes more. light and lay gazing into the glass paperweight. fragment of coral but the interior of the glass was almost as transparent as air. It was as though sky, enclosing a tiny world with its atmosphere inside it, and that in fact he was inside it, and the clock and the steel engraving and the room he was in, and the coral was Julia's life heart of the crystal. Syme had vanished. A morning came, and he people commented on his absence. On the next Winston went into the vestibule of the Records the notices carried a printed list of the Syme had been one. It looked almost exactly as out--but it was one name shorter. It was enough. The weather was baking hot. In the labyrinthine kept their normal temperature, but outside the the Tubes at the rush hours was a horror. The and the staffs of all the Ministries were working lectures, waxworks, displays, film shows, stands had to be erected, effigies rumours circulated, photographs faked. Julia's off the production of novels and was rushing in addition to his regular work, spent long of 'The Times' and altering and embellishing Late at night, when crowds of rowdy proles febrile air. The rocket bombs crashed oftener there were enormous explosions which no one could The new tune which was to be the theme-song of already been composed and was being endlessly barking rhythm which could not exactly be called Roared out by hundreds of voices to the tramp of taken a fancy to it, and in the midnight streets hopeless fancy'. The Parsons children played it on a comb and a piece of toilet paper. Squads of volunteers, organized by Parsons, stitching banners, painting posters, and perilously slinging wires across the street that Victory Mansions alone would display four element and as happy as a lark. The heat and for reverting to shorts and an open shirt in the pulling, sawing, hammering, improvising, jollying giving out from every fold of his body what seemed A new poster had suddenly appeared and represented simply the monstrous figure of striding forward with expressionless Mongolian from his hip. From whatever angle you looked at the foreshortening, seemed to be pointed straight blank space on every wall, even outnumbering the apathetic about the war, were being lashed into As though to harmonize with the general mood, the people than usual. One fell on a crowded film victims among the ruins. The whole population trailing funeral which went on for hours and bomb fell on a piece of waste ground which was were blown to pieces. There were further angry hundreds of copies of the poster of the Eurasian and a number of shops were looted in the spies were directing the rocket bombs by means suspected of being of foreign extraction had their In the room over Mr Charrington's shop, when side by side on a stripped bed under the open had never come back, but the bugs had multiplied Dirty or clean, the room was paradise. As soon as pepper bought on the black market, tear off their fall asleep and wake to find that the bugs had Four, five, six--seven times they met during the drinking gin at all hours. He seemed to have lost ulcer had subsided, leaving only a brown stain on the early morning had stopped. The process of longer any impulse to make faces at the telescreen they had a secure hiding-place, almost a home, only meet infrequently and for a couple of hours the junk-shop should exist. To know that it was in it. The room was a world, a pocket of the past thought Winston, was another extinct animal. for a few minutes on his way upstairs. The old and on the other hand to have almost no customers. dark shop, and an even tinier back kitchen among other things, an unbelievably He seemed glad of the opportunity to talk. with his long nose and thick spectacles and he had always vaguely the air of being a collector enthusiasm he would finger this scrap of rubbish a broken snuffbox, a pinchbeck locket containing a that Winston should buy it, merely that he should the tinkling of a worn-out musical-box. He had more fragments of forgotten rhymes. There and another about a cow with a crumpled horn, and just occurred to me you might be interested,' he he produced a new fragment. But he could never Both of them knew--in a way, it was never out of not last long. There were times when the as the bed they lay on, and they would cling like a damned soul grasping at his last morsel of striking. But there were also times when they had So long as they were actually in this room, they there was difficult and dangerous, but the room gazed into the heart of the paperweight, with the that glassy world, and that once inside it time to daydreams of escape. Their luck would hold intrigue, just like this, for the remainder of and by subtle manoeuvrings Winston and Julia would suicide together. Or they would disappear, alter proletarian accents, get jobs in a factory and It was all nonsense, as they both knew. In reality practicable, suicide, they had no intention of from week to week, spinning out a present that just as one's lungs will always draw the next Sometimes, too, they talked of engaging in active how to take the first step. Even if the fabulous the difficulty of finding one's way into it. He or seemed to exist, between himself and simply to walk into O'Brien's presence, and demand his help. Curiously enough, this to do. She was used to judging people by their should believe O'Brien to be trustworthy on Moreover she took it for granted that everyone, would break the rules if he thought it safe to do organized opposition existed or could exist. The she said, were simply a lot of rubbish which and which you had to pretend to believe in. Times demonstrations, she had shouted at the top of her had never heard and in whose supposed crimes she were happening she had taken her place in the the courts from morning to night, chanting at Two Minutes Hate she always excelled all others the dimmest idea of who Goldstein was and what grown up since the Revolution and was too young and sixties. Such a thing as an independent and in any case the Party was invincible. It would could only rebel against it by secret disobedience as killing somebody or blowing something up. and far less susceptible to Party propaganda. mention the war against Eurasia, she startled war was not happening. The rocket bombs which Government of Oceania itself, 'just to keep people never occurred to him. She also stirred a sort Minutes Hate her great difficulty was to avoid the teachings of the Party when they in some way accept the official mythology, simply because not seem important to her. She believed, that the Party had invented aeroplanes. (In his fifties, it was only the helicopter that the Party when Julia was at school, it was already claiming be claiming the steam engine.) And when he told he was born and long before the Revolution, After all, what did it matter who had invented when he discovered from some chance remark that had been at war with Eastasia and at peace with war as a sham: but apparently she had not even 'I thought we'd always been at war with Eurasia,' invention of aeroplanes dated from long before her only four years ago, well after she was grown up. of an hour. In the end he succeeded in forcing at one time Eastasia and not Eurasia had been unimportant. 'Who cares?' she said impatiently. and one knows the news is all lies anyway.' Department and the impudent forgeries that he horrify her. She did not feel the abyss opening truths. He told her the story of Jones, Aaronson, which he had once held between his fingers. It did she failed to grasp the point of the story. 'No, I never knew them. They were Inner Party I was. They belonged to the old days, before 'Then what was there to worry about? People are He tried to make her understand. 'This was an somebody being killed. Do you realize that the abolished? If it survives anywhere, it's in a like that lump of glass there. Already we Revolution and the years before the Revolution. every book has been rewritten, every picture and building has been renamed, every date has day by day and minute by minute. History has present in which the Party is always right. I but it would never be possible for me to myself. After the thing is done, no evidence ever and I don't know with any certainty that any other instance, in my whole life, I did possess actual 'And what good was that?' 'It was no good, because I threw if the same thing happened 'Well, I wouldn't!' said Julia. 'I'm quite ready not for bits of old newspaper. What could you 'Not much, perhaps. But it was evidence. It supposing that I'd dared to show it to alter anything in our own lifetime. But one can here and there--small groups of people banding and even leaving a few records behind, so that the 'I'm not interested in the next 'You're only a rebel from the She thought this brilliantly witty and In the ramifications of party doctrine she began to talk of the principles of Ingsoc, and the denial of objective reality, and to use said that she never paid any attention to that so why let oneself be worried by it? She knew all one needed. If he persisted in talking of such asleep. She was one of those people who can go to her, he realized how easy it was to present grasp whatever of what orthodoxy meant. In a way, successfully on people incapable of understanding violations of reality, because they never fully and were not sufficiently interested in public of understanding they remained sane. They simply them no harm, because it left no residue behind, through the body of a bird. It had happened at last. The expected it seemed to him, he had been He was walking down the long corridor at the Julia had slipped the note into his hand than himself was walking just behind him. The evidently as a prelude to speaking. Winston At last they were face to face, and it seemed heart bounded violently. He would have been had continued forward in the same movement, laying so that the two of them were walking the peculiar grave courtesy that differentiated 'I had been hoping for an opportunity of one of your Newspeak articles in 'The Times' the other day. You take a scholarly Winston had recovered part of his self-possession. It's not my subject. I have never had anything to 'But you write it very elegantly,' said O'Brien. 'That is not only my own opinion. I was who is certainly an expert. His name Again Winston's heart stirred painfully. It was a reference to Syme. But Syme was not only dead, reference to him would have been mortally have been intended as a signal, a codeword. had turned the two of them into accomplices. They but now O'Brien halted. With the curious, to put in to the gesture he resettled his 'What I had really intended to say you had used two words which have become very recently. Have you seen the tenth 'No,' said Winston. 'I didn't think it had been issued yet. We are still using the 'The tenth edition is not due to appear for copies have been circulated. I have one myself. 'Very much so,' said Winston, 'Some of the new developments are most ingenious. point that will appeal to you, I think. Let me dictionary? But I am afraid I invariably could pick it up at my flat at some time that They were standing in front of a telescreen. of his pockets and then produced a a gold ink-pencil. Immediately beneath the who was watching at the other end of the he scribbled an address, tore out 'I am usually at home in the evenings,' he said. He was gone, leaving Winston holding there was no need to conceal. Nevertheless he and some hours later dropped it into the They had been talking to one another for a couple that the episode could possibly have. It had O'Brien's address. This was necessary, because to discover where anyone lived. There were no see me, this is where I can be found,' was what would even be a message concealed somewhere in certain. The conspiracy that he had dreamed of did He knew that sooner or later he would perhaps after a long delay--he was not certain. a process that had started years ago. The first the second had been the opening of the and now from words to actions. The last step was Love. He had accepted it. The end was contained more exactly, it was like a foretaste of death, speaking to O'Brien, when the meaning of the words possession of his body. He had the sensation and it was not much better because he had waiting for him. Winston had woken up with his eyes full of murmuring something that might 'I dreamt--' he began, and stopped short. There was the dream itself, and it that had swum into his mind He lay back with his eyes shut, still sodden luminous dream in which his whole life seemed a summer evening after rain. It had all occurred the glass was the dome of the sky, and inside light in which one could see into interminable by--indeed, in some sense it had consisted and made again thirty years later by the trying to shelter the small boy from the bullets, 'Do you know,' he said, 'that until this 'Why did you murder her?' 'I didn't murder her. Not physically.' In the dream he had remembered his last glimpse the cluster of small events surrounding it had have deliberately pushed out of his consciousness but he could not have been less than ten years His father had disappeared some time earlier, how better the rackety, uneasy circumstances of the the sheltering in Tube stations, the piles proclamations posted at street corners, the the enormous queues outside the bakeries, distance--above all, the fact that there long afternoons spent with other boys in picking out the ribs of cabbage leaves, potato breadcrust from which they carefully scraped away of trucks which travelled over a certain route when they jolted over the bad patches in the When his father disappeared, his mother did but a sudden change came over her. She seemed evident even to Winston that she was waiting She did everything that was needed--cooked, dusted the mantelpiece--always very slowly and like an artist's lay-figure moving of its own naturally into stillness. For hours at a time she young sister, a tiny, ailing, very silent child of Very occasionally she would take Winston in time without saying anything. He was aware, that this was somehow connected with the He remembered the room where they lived, a filled by a bed with a white counterpane. shelf where food was kept, and on the landing common to several rooms. He remembered his ring to stir at something in a saucepan. Above fierce sordid battles at mealtimes. He would ask there was not more food, he would shout and storm which was beginning to break prematurely or he would attempt a snivelling note of pathos mother was quite ready to give him more than his should have the biggest portion; but however much meal she would beseech him not to be selfish and also needed food, but it was no use. He would he would try to wrench the saucepan and spoon sister's plate. He knew that he was starving he even felt that he had a right to do it. justify him. Between meals, if his mother did at the wretched store of food on the shelf. had been no such issue for weeks or months past. morsel of chocolate. It was a two-ounce slab (they the three of them. It was obvious that it ought as though he were listening to somebody a loud booming voice that he should be given be greedy. There was a long, nagging argument tears, remonstrances, bargainings. His tiny exactly like a baby monkey, sat looking over In the end his mother broke off three-quarters the other quarter to his sister. The little girl not knowing what it was. Winston stood watching he had snatched the piece of chocolate out of 'Winston, Winston!' his mother called after him. He stopped, but did not come back. His face. Even now he was thinking about the was on the point of happening. His sister, had set up a feeble wail. His mother drew face against her breast. Something in the He turned and fled down the stairs, with He never saw his mother again. After somewhat ashamed of himself and hung until hunger drove him home. When he came already becoming normal at that time. Nothing his sister. They had not taken any clothes, not not know with any certainty that his mother had merely been sent to a forced-labour camp. like Winston himself, to one of the colonies they were called) which had grown up as a result to the labour camp along with his mother, The dream was still vivid in his mind, gesture of the arm in which its whole meaning another dream of two months ago. Exactly as his with the child clinging to her, so she had and drowning deeper every minute, but still He told Julia the story of his mother's she rolled over and settled herself 'I expect you were a beastly she said indistinctly. 'All children are swine.' 'Yes. But the real point of the story----' she was going off to sleep again. He would have did not suppose, from what he could remember still less an intelligent one; and yet she had simply because the standards that she obeyed and could not be altered from outside. It would is ineffectual thereby becomes meaningless. If had nothing else to give, you still gave him his mother had clasped the child in her it did not produce more chocolate, it did not natural to her to do it. The refugee woman in the which was no more use against the bullets than Party had done was to persuade you that mere while at the same time robbing you of all power grip of the Party, what you felt or did not made literally no difference. Whatever happened were ever heard of again. You were lifted clean people of only two generations ago this would not attempting to alter history. They were governed What mattered were individual relationships, and a word spoken to a dying man, could have value in had remained in this condition. They were they were loyal to one another. For the first or think of them merely as an inert force which world. The proles had stayed human. They had to the primitive emotions which he himself had this he remembered, without apparent relevance, lying on the pavement and had kicked it into the 'The proles are human beings,' he 'Why not?' said Julia, who had woken up again. He thought for a little while. 'Has 'that the best thing for us out of here before it's too late, 'Yes, dear, it has occurred to me, several 'We've been lucky,' he said 'but it can't last innocent. If you keep clear of people like me, 'No. I've thought it all out. What you downhearted. I'm rather good at staying alive.' 'We may be together for another six months--a certain to be apart. Do you realize how utterly there will be nothing, literally nothing, that they'll shoot you, and if I refuse to same. Nothing that I can do or say, or stop for as much as five minutes. Neither of us or dead. We shall be utterly without power that we shouldn't betray one another, although 'If you mean confessing,' right enough. Everybody always confesses. 'I don't mean confessing. Confession is not only feelings matter. If they could make me stop She thought it over. 'They can't the one thing they can't do. They can make you say anything--ANYTHING--but they can't make you 'No,' he said a little more hopefully, inside you. If you can FEEL that staying human result whatever, you've beaten them.' never-sleeping ear. They could spy upon you night outwit them. With all their cleverness they had another human being was thinking. Perhaps that hands. One did not know what happened inside the tortures, drugs, delicate instruments gradual wearing-down by sleeplessness and solitude could not be kept hidden. They could be tracked by torture. But if the object was not to stay it ultimately make? They could not alter your them yourself, even if you wanted to. They could had done or said or thought; but the inner heart, remained impregnable. They had done it, they had done it at last! The room they were standing in was long-shaped murmur; the richness of the dark-blue carpet gave far end of the room O'Brien was sitting at a table on either side of him. He had not bothered to look Winston's heart was thumping so hard that he had done it, they had done it at last, was all he at all, and sheer folly to arrive together; though and only met on O'Brien's doorstep. But merely nerve. It was only on very rare occasions that one or even penetrated into the quarter of the town block of flats, the richness and spaciousness of good tobacco, the silent and incredibly rapid servants hurrying to and fro--everything was coming here, he was haunted at every step by the appear from round the corner, demand his papers, however, had admitted the two of them without white jacket, with a diamond-shaped, completely of a Chinese. The passage down which he led them white wainscoting, all exquisitely clean. That too to have seen a passageway whose walls were O'Brien had a slip of paper between his fingers face, bent down so that one could see the intelligent. For perhaps twenty seconds the speakwrite towards him and rapped out a 'Items one comma five comma suggestion contained item six doubleplus unproceed constructionwise antegetting plusfull He rose deliberately from his chair and came little of the official atmosphere seemed to have but his expression was grimmer than usual, as The terror that Winston already felt was embarrassment. It seemed to him quite possible what evidence had he in reality that O'Brien was flash of the eyes and a single equivocal remark: founded on a dream. He could not even come to borrow the dictionary, because in to explain. As O'Brien passed the telescreen turned aside and pressed a switch on the wall. Julia uttered a tiny sound, a sort of squeak Winston was too much taken aback 'You can turn it off!' he said. 'Yes,' said O'Brien, 'we can turn He was opposite them now. His solid and the expression on his face was somewhat sternly, for Winston to speak, but about was simply a busy man wondering irritably After the stopping of the telescreen the room enormous. With difficulty Winston continued suddenly the grim face broke down into what With his characteristic gesture O'Brien 'Shall I say it, or will you?' he said. 'I will say it,' said Winston promptly. 'Yes, everything is turned off. We are alone.' 'We have come here because----' He paused, realizing for the first time the in fact know what kind of help he expected from here. He went on, conscious that what he was 'We believe that there is some kind organization working against the Party, and it and work for it. We are enemies of the Ingsoc. We are thought-criminals. this because we want to put ourselves at ourselves in any other way, we are ready.' with the feeling that the door had opened. Sure in without knocking. Winston saw that he was 'Martin is one of us,' said O'Brien Martin. Put them on the round Then we may as well sit down and talk Martin. This is business. You can stop The little man sat down, quite at his ease, the air of a valet enjoying a privilege. of his eye. It struck him that the and that he felt it to be dangerous to drop his took the decanter by the neck and filled up the Winston dim memories of something seen long ago of electric lights which seemed to move up and from the top the stuff looked almost black, It had a sour-sweet smell. He saw Julia pick up 'It is called wine,' said O'Brien with a faint no doubt. Not much of it gets to the Outer Party, I am afraid.' His face grew solemn again, fitting that we should begin by drinking a Winston took up his glass with a certain and dreamed about. Like the glass paperweight it belonged to the vanished, romantic past, the thoughts. For some reason he had always thought like that of blackberry jam and an when he came to swallow it, the stuff was that after years of gin-drinking he could 'Then there is such a person 'Yes, there is such a person, and 'And the conspiracy--the organization? Is it real? It is not simply an 'No, it is real. The Brotherhood, we call the Brotherhood than that it exists and that presently.' He looked at his wrist-watch. 'It to turn off the telescreen for more than half an and you will have to leave separately. You, leave first. We have about twenty minutes I must start by asking you certain questions. 'Anything that we are capable of,' said Winston. O'Brien had turned himself a little in his chair Julia, seeming to take it for granted that lids flitted down over his eyes. He began asking though this were a routine, a sort of catechism, 'You are prepared to give your lives?' 'Yes.' 'You are prepared to commit murder?' 'Yes.' 'To commit acts of sabotage which may cause 'Yes.' 'To betray your country to foreign powers?' 'Yes.' 'You are prepared to cheat, to forge, children, to distribute habit-forming drugs, to diseases--to do anything which is likely to cause 'Yes.' 'If, for example, it would to throw sulphuric acid in a child's 'Yes.' 'You are prepared to lose your identity and live out the rest of your life as 'Yes.' 'You are prepared to commit suicide, 'Yes.' 'You are prepared, the two of you, to 'No!' broke in Julia. that a long time passed before he even to have been deprived of the power forming the opening syllables first of one word, had said it, he did not know which word he 'You did well to tell me,' said O'Brien. He turned himself toward Julia and added in 'Do you understand that even if he survives, it may be as a different person? We may be his movements, the shape of his hands, the different. And you yourself might have can alter people beyond recognition. Sometimes it Winston could not help snatching another sidelong no scars that he could see. Julia had turned a but she faced O'Brien boldly. She murmured 'Good. Then that is settled.' There was a silver box of cigarettes on the table. them towards the others, took one himself, then though he could think better standing. They were with an unfamiliar silkiness in the paper. 'You had better go back to your Pantry, Martin,' he said. 'I shall switch on look at these comrades' faces before you go. Exactly as they had done at the front door, faces. There was not a trace of friendliness in but he felt no interest in them, or appeared synthetic face was perhaps incapable of changing kind of salutation, Martin went out, closing the and down, one hand in the pocket of his black 'You understand,' he said, 'that you will be dark. You will receive orders and you will obey a book from which you will learn the true nature which we shall destroy it. When you have read the But between the general aims that we are fighting you will never know anything. I tell you that the it numbers a hundred members, or ten million. From say that it numbers even as many as a dozen. be renewed from time to time as they disappear. As When you receive orders, they will come from me. it will be through Martin. When you are finally But you will have very little to confess, other betray more than a handful of unimportant me. By that time I may be dead, or I shall have He continued to move to and fro over the soft there was a remarkable grace in his movements. thrust a hand into his pocket, or manipulated he gave an impression of confidence and of an in earnest he might be, he had nothing of the When he spoke of murder, suicide, venereal it was with a faint air of persiflage. 'This 'this is what we have got to do, unflinchingly. life is worth living again.' A wave flowed out from Winston towards O'Brien. figure of Goldstein. When you looked at O'Brien's so ugly and yet so civilized, it was impossible no stratagem that he was not equal to, no danger be impressed. She had let her cigarette go out 'You will have heard rumours of the existence your own picture of it. You have imagined, meeting secretly in cellars, scribbling messages or by special movements of the hand. Nothing of have no way of recognizing one another, and it the identity of more than a few others. Goldstein Police, could not give them a complete list them to a complete list. No such list exists. is not an organization in the ordinary sense. is indestructible. You will never have anything comradeship and no encouragement. When finally you our members. At most, when it is absolutely we are occasionally able to smuggle a razor blade to living without results and without hope. you will confess, and then you will die. Those are no possibility that any perceptible change will Our only true life is in the future. We shall of bone. But how far away that future may be, years. At present nothing is possible except to cannot act collectively. We can only spread our generation after generation. In the face of He halted and looked for the 'It is almost time for you to leave, comrade,' he said to Julia. 'Wait. He filled the glasses and raised 'What shall it be this time?' he said, still confusion of the Thought Police? To the death 'To the past,' said Winston. 'The past is more important,' They emptied their glasses, and a moment later from the top of a cabinet and handed her place on her tongue. It was important, the lift attendants were very observant. he appeared to forget her existence. He took 'There are details to be settled,' he said. 'I Winston explained about the 'That will do for the moment. Later we will to change one's hiding-place frequently. Meanwhile Winston noticed, seemed to pronounce the words you understand, as soon as possible. It one. There are not many in existence, as them down and destroy them almost makes very little difference. The book is we could reproduce it almost word for word. Do you 'As a rule, yes.' 'What is it like?' 'Black, very shabby. With two straps.' 'Black, two straps, very shabby--good. One day in of the messages among your morning's and you will have to ask for a repeat. work without your brief-case. At some a man will touch you on the arm and say &quot;I think gives you will contain a copy of Goldstein's They were silent for a moment. 'There are a couple of minutes before you need go,' said O'Brien. 'We shall Winston looked up at him. 'In the place where O'Brien nodded without appearance of surprise. 'In as though he had recognized the is there anything that you wish to say before Winston thought. There did not seem to be still less did he feel any impulse Instead of anything directly connected with his mind a sort of composite picture of the dark and the little room over Mr Charrington's shop, in its rosewood frame. Almost at random he said: that begins &quot;Oranges and lemons, Again O'Brien nodded. With a sort of 'Oranges and lemons, say You owe me three farthings, When will you pay me? say the bells of Old Bailey, 'You knew the last line!' said Winston. 'Yes, I knew the last line. And now, I am afraid, it is time for you to go. But wait. You had As Winston stood up O'Brien held out a hand. His At the door Winston looked back, but O'Brien him out of mind. He was waiting with his hand Beyond him Winston could see the writing-table and the wire baskets deep-laden with papers. it occurred to him, O'Brien would be back at of the Party. Winston was gelatinous with fatigue. had come into his head spontaneously. His body but its translucency. He felt that if he held up it. All the blood and lymph had been drained leaving only a frail structure of nerves, to be magnified. His overalls fretted his even the opening and closing of a hand He had worked more than ninety hours the Ministry. Now it was all over, no Party work of any description, until in the hiding-place and another nine in his he walked up a dingy street in the direction of the patrols, but irrationally convinced that interfering with him. The heavy brief-case that he sending a tingling sensation up and down which he had now had in his possession for six On the sixth day of Hate Week, after the the singing, the banners, the posters, the and squealing of trumpets, the tramp of marching the roar of massed planes, the booming of orgasm was quivering to its climax and the such delirium that if the crowd could have got who were to be publicly hanged on the last day have torn them to pieces--at just this moment after all at war with Eurasia. Oceania was There was, of course, no admission that any with extreme suddenness and everywhere at once, Winston was taking part in a demonstration in one it happened. It was night, and the white faces The square was packed with several thousand schoolchildren in the uniform of the Spies. On Party, a small lean man with disproportionately a few lank locks straggled, was haranguing contorted with hatred, he gripped the neck of enormous at the end of a bony arm, clawed made metallic by the amplifiers, boomed forth deportations, lootings, rapings, torture of unjust aggressions, broken treaties. It was being first convinced and then maddened. At every the voice of the speaker was drowned by a wild thousands of throats. The most savage yells of been proceeding for perhaps twenty minutes when a of paper was slipped into the speaker's hand. speech. Nothing altered in his voice or manner, or the names were different. Without words said, a Oceania was at war with Eastasia! The next banners and posters with which the square was had the wrong faces on them. It was sabotage! The riotous interlude while posters were ripped from underfoot. The Spies performed prodigies of cutting the streamers that fluttered from the was all over. The orator, still gripping the neck his free hand clawing at the air, had gone and the feral roars of rage were again bursting before, except that the target had been changed. was that the speaker had switched from one not only without a pause, but without even other things to preoccupy him. It was during the torn down that a man whose face he did not see had I think you've dropped your brief-case.' He took He knew that it would be days before he had an the demonstration was over he went straight to nearly twenty-three hours. The entire staff already issuing from the telescreen, recalling Oceania was at war with Eastasia: Oceania had of the political literature of five years was of all kinds, newspapers, books, pamphlets, be rectified at lightning speed. Although no the chiefs of the Department intended that within or the alliance with Eastasia, should remain in all the more so because the processes that it Everyone in the Records Department worked eighteen snatches of sleep. Mattresses were brought up from meals consisted of sandwiches and Victory Coffee canteen. Each time that Winston broke off for his desk clear of work, and each time that he find that another shower of paper cylinders had the speakwrite and overflowing on to the floor, into a neat enough pile to give him room to was by no means purely mechanical. Often it was but any detailed report of events demanded care that one needed in transferring the war from one By the third day his eyes ached unbearably and It was like struggling with some crushing physical and which one was nevertheless neurotically to remember it, he was not troubled by the fact every stroke of his ink-pencil, was a anyone else in the Department that the forgery day the dribble of cylinders slowed down. For as then one more cylinder, then nothing. Everywhere A deep and as it were secret sigh went which could never be mentioned, had been achieved. prove by documentary evidence that the war with was unexpectedly announced that all workers in the still carrying the brief-case containing feet while he worked and under his body and almost fell asleep in his bath, although With a sort of voluptuous creaking in Charrington's shop. He was tired, but not sleepy little oilstove and put on a pan of water for there was the book. He sat down in the sluttish A heavy black volume, amateurishly bound, with looked slightly irregular. The pages were as though the book had passed through many The Theory And Practice of Oligarchical Winston began reading: Chapter 1. Ignorance is Strength. since the end of the Neolithic Age, there have the Middle, and the Low. They have been subdivided names, and their relative numbers, as well as from age to age: but the essential structure of upheavals and seemingly irrevocable changes, the a gyroscope will always return to equilibrium, The aims of these groups are Winston stopped reading, chiefly in order in comfort and safety. He was alone: no nervous impulse to glance over his shoulder air played against his cheek. From somewhere far in the room itself there was no sound except the the arm-chair and put his feet up on the fender. sometimes does with a book of which one knows that he opened it at a different place and found Chapter 3. War is Peace. The splitting up of the world into three great indeed was foreseen before the middle of the Europe by Russia and of the British Empire by the Eurasia and Oceania, were already effectively as a distinct unit after another decade of three super-states are in some places arbitrary, fortunes of war, but in general they follow whole of the northern part of the European and Strait. Oceania comprises the Americas, the Australasia, and the southern portion of Africa. less definite western frontier, comprises the Japanese islands and a large but fluctuating In one combination or another, these and have been so for the past twenty-five annihilating struggle that it was in the early of limited aims between combatants who are unable fighting and are not divided by any genuine that either the conduct of war, or the prevailing or more chivalrous. On the contrary, war hysteria and such acts as raping, looting, the slaughter to slavery, and reprisals against prisoners are looked upon as normal, and, when they are meritorious. But in a physical sense war mostly highly-trained specialists, and causes when there is any, takes place on the vague only guess at, or round the Floating Fortresses In the centres of civilization war means no more and the occasional crash of a rocket bomb which changed its character. More exactly, the reasons of importance. Motives which were already present early twentieth century have now become dominant To understand the nature of the present war--for years, it is always the same war--one must realize be decisive. None of the three super-states could in combination. They are too evenly matched, and is protected by its vast land spaces, Oceania Eastasia by the fecundity and industriousness of in a material sense, anything to fight about. With which production and consumption are geared to one cause of previous wars has come to an end, while matter of life and death. In any case each of the almost all the materials that it needs within a direct economic purpose, it is a war for labour and not permanently in the possession of any of corners at Tangier, Brazzaville, Darwin, and of the population of the earth. It is for the and of the northern ice-cap, that the three powers power ever controls the whole of the disputed hands, and it is the chance of seizing this or that dictates the endless changes of alignment. minerals, and some of them yield important colder climates it is necessary to synthesize by they contain a bottomless reserve of cheap labour. countries of the Middle East, or Southern India, the bodies of scores or hundreds of millions of of these areas, reduced more or less openly to the to conqueror, and are expended like so much coal to capture more territory, to control more to capture more territory, and so on indefinitely. moves beyond the edges of the disputed areas. between the basin of the Congo and the northern Indian Ocean and the Pacific are constantly being in Mongolia the dividing line between Eurasia and powers lay claim to enormous territories which but the balance of power always remains roughly of each super-state always remains inviolate. round the Equator is not really necessary to the wealth of the world, since whatever and the object of waging a war is always to be in By their labour the slave populations allow the if they did not exist, the structure of world itself, would not be essentially different. with the principles of doublethink, this aim is the directing brains of the Inner Party) is to use general standard of living. Ever since the end of with the surplus of consumption goods has been few human beings even have enough to eat, this have become so, even if no artificial processes of is a bare, hungry, dilapidated place compared with so if compared with the imaginary future to which early twentieth century, the vision of a future efficient--a glittering antiseptic world of glass consciousness of nearly every literate person. prodigious speed, and it seemed natural to assume to happen, partly because of the impoverishment partly because scientific and technical progress which could not survive in a strictly regimented today than it was fifty years ago. Certain always in some way connected with warfare but experiment and invention have largely nineteen-fifties have never been fully repaired. are still there. From the moment when the machine thinking people that the need for human drudgery, inequality, had disappeared. If the machine were dirt, illiteracy, and disease could be eliminated being used for any such purpose, but by a sort was sometimes impossible not to distribute--the average human being very greatly over a period and the beginning of the twentieth centuries. in wealth threatened the destruction--indeed, in society. In a world in which everyone worked short a bathroom and a refrigerator, and possessed a and perhaps the most important form of inequality general, wealth would confer no distinction. It which WEALTH, in the sense of personal possessions POWER remained in the hands of a small privileged long remain stable. For if leisure and security human beings who are normally stupefied by poverty themselves; and when once they had done this, they minority had no function, and they would sweep was only possible on a basis of poverty and as some thinkers about the beginning of the a practicable solution. It conflicted with the quasi-instinctive throughout almost the whole industrially backward was helpless in a military indirectly, by its more advanced rivals. the masses in poverty by restricting the output the final phase of capitalism, roughly between allowed to stagnate, land went out of cultivation, of the population were prevented from working too, entailed military weakness, and since unnecessary, it made opposition inevitable. The turning without increasing the real wealth of the be distributed. And in practice the only way The essential act of war is destruction, not of human labour. War is a way of shattering or sinking in the depths of the sea, materials too comfortable, and hence, in the long run, not actually destroyed, their manufacture is power without producing anything that can be has locked up in it the labour that would build scrapped as obsolete, never having brought any enormous labours another Floating Fortress is planned as to eat up any surplus that might exist practice the needs of the population are always a chronic shortage of half the necessities of is deliberate policy to keep even the favoured because a general state of scarcity increases the the distinction between one group and another. even a member of the Inner Party lives an the few luxuries that he does enjoy his large, clothes, the better quality of his food and his private motor-car or helicopter--set him in a and the members of the Outer Party have a submerged masses whom we call 'the proles'. The where the possession of a lump of horseflesh makes at the same time the consciousness of being handing-over of all power to a small caste seem War, it will be seen, accomplishes the a psychologically acceptable way. In principle it of the world by building temples and pyramids, or even by producing vast quantities of goods and only the economic and not the emotional basis for is not the morale of masses, whose attitude is work, but the morale of the Party itself. Even the industrious, and even intelligent within narrow be a credulous and ignorant fanatic whose and orgiastic triumph. In other words it is appropriate to a state of war. It does not and, since no decisive victory is possible, it badly. All that is needed is that a state of war which the Party requires of its members, and which is now almost universal, but the higher up the precisely in the Inner Party that war hysteria and as an administrator, it is often necessary for or that item of war news is untruthful, and he may is either not happening or is being waged for but such knowledge is easily neutralized no Inner Party member wavers for an instant and that it is bound to end victoriously, with All members of the Inner Party believe in this be achieved either by gradually acquiring more and preponderance of power, or by the discovery of new weapons continues unceasingly, and is one the inventive or speculative type of mind can Science, in the old sense, has almost ceased to The empirical method of thought, on which all the is opposed to the most fundamental principles happens when its products can in some way be all the useful arts the world is either fields are cultivated with horse-ploughs while of vital importance--meaning, in effect, war and encouraged, or at least tolerated. The two aims the earth and to extinguish once and for all are therefore two great problems which the Party against his will, what another human being several hundred million people in a few seconds scientific research still continues, this is its mixture of psychologist and inquisitor, studying facial expressions, gestures, and tones of voice, shock therapy, hypnosis, and physical torture; or only with such branches of his special subject vast laboratories of the Ministry of Peace, and in forests, or in the Australian desert, or on lost are indefatigably at work. Some are concerned others devise larger and larger rocket bombs, more impenetrable armour-plating; others search for capable of being produced in such quantities as or for breeds of disease germs immunized against a vehicle that shall bore its way under the soil as independent of its base as a sailing-ship; such as focusing the sun's rays through lenses or producing artificial earthquakes and tidal But none of these projects ever comes anywhere super-states ever gains a significant lead on the powers already possess, in the atomic bomb, a present researches are likely to discover. claims the invention for itself, atomic bombs and were first used on a large scale about of bombs were dropped on industrial centres, and North America. The effect was to convince more atomic bombs would mean the end of organized although no formal agreement was ever made three powers merely continue to produce atomic opportunity which they all believe will come has remained almost stationary for thirty than they were formerly, bombing planes have been and the fragile movable battleship has given but otherwise there has been little the torpedo, the machine gun, even the rifle in spite of the endless slaughters reported in battles of earlier wars, in which hundreds of killed in a few weeks, have never been repeated. manoeuvre which involves the risk of serious it is usually a surprise attack against an ally. or pretend to themselves that they are by a combination of fighting, bargaining, and ring of bases completely encircling one or other friendship with that rival and remain on peaceful sleep. During this time rockets loaded with atomic finally they will all be fired simultaneously, impossible. It will then be time to sign a pact in preparation for another attack. This scheme, impossible of realization. Moreover, no fighting the Equator and the Pole: no invasion of enemy fact that in some places the frontiers between the could easily conquer the British Isles, which other hand it would be possible for Oceania to Vistula. But this would violate the principle, of cultural integrity. If Oceania were to as France and Germany, it would be necessary of great physical difficulty, or to assimilate a so far as technical development goes, are roughly all three super-states. It is absolutely necessary with foreigners, except, to a limited extent, the official ally of the moment is always regarded the average citizen of Oceania never sets eyes and he is forbidden the knowledge of foreign foreigners he would discover that they are of what he has been told about them is lies. The and the fear, hatred, and self-righteousness It is therefore realized on all sides that or Ceylon may change hands, the main frontiers Under this lies a fact never mentioned aloud, that the conditions of life in all three Oceania the prevailing philosophy is called and in Eastasia it is called by a Chinese name better rendered as Obliteration of the Self. The of the tenets of the other two philosophies, outrages upon morality and common sense. Actually and the social systems which they support are the same pyramidal structure, the same worship of and for continuous warfare. It follows that the another, but would gain no advantage by doing in conflict they prop one another up, like three of all three powers are simultaneously aware and dedicated to world conquest, but they also know everlastingly and without victory. Meanwhile makes possible the denial of reality which is the thought. Here it is necessary to repeat what has war has fundamentally changed its character. was something that sooner or later came to defeat. In the past, also, war was one of the kept in touch with physical reality. All rulers of the world upon their followers, but they that tended to impair military efficiency. So or some other result generally held to be had to be serious. Physical facts could not be or politics, two and two might make five, but when to make four. Inefficient nations were always efficiency was inimical to illusions. Moreover, learn from the past, which meant having a fairly Newspapers and history books were, of course, the kind that is practised today would have been and so far as the ruling classes were concerned safeguards. While wars could be won or lost, no But when war becomes literally continuous, it also there is no such thing as military necessity. facts can be denied or disregarded. As we have are still carried out for the purposes of war, and their failure to show results is not is no longer needed. Nothing is efficient in of the three super-states is unconquerable, each almost any perversion of thought can be safely through the needs of everyday life--the need to avoid swallowing poison or stepping out of and death, and between physical pleasure and but that is all. Cut off from contact with the Oceania is like a man in interstellar space, and which is down. The rulers of such a state are be. They are obliged to prevent their followers be inconvenient, and they are obliged to remain at rivals; but once that minimum is achieved, they The war, therefore, if we judge it is merely an imposture. It is like the whose horns are set at such an angle that they it is unreal it is not meaningless. It eats up to preserve the special mental atmosphere that a is now a purely internal affair. In the past, they might recognize their common interest and did fight against one another, and the victor day they are not fighting against one another at its own subjects, and the object of the war is but to keep the structure of society intact. misleading. It would probably be accurate to to exist. The peculiar pressure that it exerted early twentieth century has disappeared and been would be much the same if the three super-states, live in perpetual peace, each inviolate within still be a self-contained universe, freed for danger. A peace that was truly permanent This--although the vast majority of Party members inner meaning of the Party slogan: War Is Peace. in remote distance a rocket bomb thundered. The book, in a room with no telescreen, had not worn mixed up somehow with the tiredness of the touch of the faint breeze from the window that or more exactly it reassured him. In a sense part of the attraction. It said what he would have scattered thoughts in order. It was the product powerful, more systematic, less fear-ridden. The what you know already. He had just turned back the stair and started out of his chair to meet and flung herself into his arms. It was more 'I've got the book,' he said as 'Oh, you've got it? Good,' she and almost immediately knelt down They did not return to the subject until they was just cool enough to make it worth while to familiar sound of singing and the scrape of boots Winston had seen there on his first visit was be no hour of daylight when she was not marching alternately gagging herself with clothes Julia had settled down on her side and seemed He reached out for the book, which was lying 'We must read it,' he said. 'You too. All 'You read it,' she said with her eyes shut. 'Read it aloud. That's the best way. Then The clock's hands said six, meaning ahead of them. He propped the book Chapter 1. Ignorance is Strength. Throughout recorded time, and probably there have been three kinds of people and the Low. They have been subdivided in many and their relative numbers, as well as their age to age: but the essential structure of society and seemingly irrevocable changes, the same a gyroscope will always return to equilibrium, 'Julia, are you awake?' said Winston. 'Yes, my love, I'm listening. He continued reading: The aims of these three groups are entirely remain where they are. The aim of the Middle is to when they have an aim--for it is an abiding crushed by drudgery to be more than intermittently to abolish all distinctions and create a society history a struggle which is the same in its main periods the High seem to be securely in power, but they lose either their belief in themselves both. They are then overthrown by the Middle, who that they are fighting for liberty and justice. the Middle thrust the Low back into their old High. Presently a new Middle group splits off from and the struggle begins over again. Of the three successful in achieving their aims. It would be there has been no progress of a material the average human being is physically better off in wealth, no softening of manners, no reform millimetre nearer. From the point of view of the than a change in the name of their masters. of this pattern had become obvious to many who interpreted history as a cyclical process unalterable law of human life. This doctrine, but in the manner in which it was now put forward need for a hierarchical form of society had It had been preached by kings and aristocrats were parasitical upon them, and it had generally imaginary world beyond the grave. The Middle, so made use of such terms as freedom, justice, and brotherhood began to be assailed by people who hoped to be so before long. In the past the Middle and then had established a fresh tyranny as Middle groups in effect proclaimed their tyranny in the early nineteenth century and was the last slave rebellions of antiquity, was still deeply each variant of Socialism that appeared from about liberty and equality was more and more openly in the middle years of the century, Ingsoc in as it is commonly called, in Eastasia, had the inequality. These new movements, of course, grew and pay lip-service to their ideology. But the freeze history at a chosen moment. The familiar stop. As usual, the High were to be turned out by this time, by conscious strategy, the High would The new doctrines arose partly because of and the growth of the historical sense, which had cyclical movement of history was now intelligible, then it was alterable. But the principal, beginning of the twentieth century, human equality that men were not equal in their native talents that favoured some individuals against others; distinctions or for large differences of wealth. only inevitable but desirable. Inequality was the machine production, however, the case was altered. to do different kinds of work, it was no longer economic levels. Therefore, from the point of view power, human equality was no longer an ideal to more primitive ages, when a just and peaceful fairly easy to believe it. The idea of an earthly state of brotherhood, without laws and without for thousands of years. And this vision had had profited by each historical change. The heirs of partly believed in their own phrases about the the law, and the like, and have even allowed extent. But by the fourth decade of the twentieth were authoritarian. The earthly paradise had became realizable. Every new political theory, hierarchy and regimentation. And in the general practices which had been long abandoned, in without trial, the use of war prisoners as slaves, the use of hostages, and the deportation of but were tolerated and even defended by people who It was only after a decade of national wars, in all parts of the world that Ingsoc and its theories. But they had been foreshadowed by the which had appeared earlier in the century, and from the prevailing chaos had long been obvious. been equally obvious. The new aristocracy was made technicians, trade-union organizers, publicity and professional politicians. These people, whose the upper grades of the working class, had been monopoly industry and centralized government. As they were less avaricious, less tempted by luxury, conscious of what they were doing and more intent cardinal. By comparison with that existing today, and inefficient. The ruling groups were always were content to leave loose ends everywhere, to in what their subjects were thinking. Even the by modern standards. Part of the reason for this to keep its citizens under constant surveillance. to manipulate public opinion, and the film and development of television, and the technical transmit simultaneously on the same instrument, least every citizen important enough to be worth day under the eyes of the police and in the sound communication closed. The possibility of enforcing State, but complete uniformity of opinion on After the revolutionary period of the fifties into High, Middle, and Low. But the new did not act upon instinct but knew what was been realized that the only secure basis for are most easily defended when they are possessed property' which took place in the middle years of property in far fewer hands than before: but with instead of a mass of individuals. Individually, petty personal belongings. Collectively, because it controls everything, and disposes following the Revolution it was able to step into the whole process was represented as an act of that if the capitalist class were expropriated, capitalists had been expropriated. Factories, been taken away from them: and since these things they must be public property. Ingsoc, which inherited its phraseology, has in fact carried with the result, foreseen and intended beforehand, But the problems of perpetuating a hierarchical ways in which a ruling group can fall from or it governs so inefficiently that the masses discontented Middle group to come into being, or to govern. These causes do not operate singly, some degree. A ruling class which could guard permanently. Ultimately the determining factor is After the middle of the present century, the of the three powers which now divide the world conquerable through slow demographic changes which The second danger, also, is only a theoretical and they never revolt merely because they are permitted to have standards of comparison, oppressed. The recurrent economic crises of past permitted to happen, but other and equally having political results, because there is no As for the problem of over-production, which has of machine technique, it is solved by the which is also useful in keying up public morale our present rulers, therefore, the only genuine able, under-employed, power-hungry people, in their own ranks. The problem, that is continuously moulding the consciousness larger executive group that lies immediately needs only to be influenced in a negative way. did not know it already, the general structure comes Big Brother. Big Brother is infallible and every victory, every scientific discovery, all are held to issue directly from his leadership He is a face on the hoardings, a voice on the will never die, and there is already considerable the guise in which the Party chooses to exhibit focusing point for love, fear, and reverence, individual than towards an organization. Below Big to six millions, or something less than 2 per Party comes the Outer Party, which, if the Inner may be justly likened to the hands. Below that as 'the proles', numbering perhaps 85 per cent classification, the proles are the Low: for the constantly from conqueror to conqueror, are not In principle, membership of these three groups is is in theory not born into the Inner Party. examination, taken at the age of sixteen. Nor is domination of one province by another. Jews, are to be found in the highest ranks of the always drawn from the inhabitants of that area. feeling that they are a colonial population ruled and its titular head is a person whose whereabouts LINGUA FRANCA and Newspeak its official language, not held together by blood-ties but by adherence is stratified, and very rigidly stratified, on There is far less to-and-fro movement between the or even in the pre-industrial age. Between the two interchange, but only so much as will ensure that that ambitious members of the Outer Party are made in practice, are not allowed to graduate who might possibly become nuclei of discontent, eliminated. But this state of affairs is not principle. The Party is not a class in the old power to its own children, as such; and if there at the top, it would be perfectly prepared to of the proletariat. In the crucial years, the did a great deal to neutralize opposition. trained to fight against something called 'class cannot be permanent. He did not see that the nor did he pause to reflect that hereditary whereas adoptive organizations such as the or thousands of years. The essence of oligarchical but the persistence of a certain world-view and the living. A ruling group is a ruling group The Party is not concerned with perpetuating wields power is not important, provided that the All the beliefs, habits, tastes, emotions, mental designed to sustain the mystique of the Party and from being perceived. Physical rebellion, is at present not possible. From the proletarians they will continue from generation to generation and dying, not only without any impulse to rebel, could be other than it is. They could only technique made it necessary to educate them more are no longer important, the level of popular the masses hold, or do not hold, is looked granted intellectual liberty because they have no not even the smallest deviation of opinion on A Party member lives from birth to death under the he can never be sure that he is alone. Wherever in his bath or in bed, he can be inspected he is being inspected. Nothing that he does is his behaviour towards his wife and children, the words he mutters in sleep, even the are all jealously scrutinized. Not only any however small, any change of habits, any nervous an inner struggle, is certain to be detected. whatever. On the other hand his actions are not code of behaviour. In Oceania there is no law. certain death are not formally forbidden, and the and vaporizations are not inflicted as punishment but are merely the wiping-out of persons who the future. A Party member is required to have not Many of the beliefs and attitudes demanded of him without laying bare the contradictions inherent (in Newspeak a goodthinker), he will in all what is the true belief or the desirable emotion. undergone in childhood and grouping itself and doublethink, makes him unwilling and unable A Party member is expected to have no private is supposed to live in a continuous frenzy of triumph over victories, and self-abasement before produced by his bare, unsatisfying life are by such devices as the Two Minutes Hate, and a sceptical or rebellious attitude are killed in The first and simplest stage in the discipline, is called, in Newspeak, crimestop. CRIMESTOP by instinct, at the threshold of any dangerous analogies, of failing to perceive logical errors, they are inimical to Ingsoc, and of being bored or of leading in a heretical direction. CRIMESTOP, in is not enough. On the contrary, orthodoxy in the processes as complete as that of a contortionist on the belief that Big Brother is omnipotent and Big Brother is not omnipotent and the party is moment-to-moment flexibility in the treatment of many Newspeak words, this word has two mutually it means the habit of impudently claiming that facts. Applied to a Party member, it means a when Party discipline demands this. But it means and more, to know that black is white, and to This demands a continuous alteration of of thought which really embraces all the rest, The alteration of the past is necessary for so to speak, precautionary. The subsidiary reason tolerates present-day conditions partly because cut off from the past, just as he must be cut off for him to believe that he is better off than his comfort is constantly rising. But by far the more is the need to safeguard the infallibility of the and records of every kind must be constantly predictions of the Party were in all cases or in political alignment can ever be admitted. is a confession of weakness. If, for example, is the enemy today, then that country must say otherwise then the facts must be altered. day-to-day falsification of the past, carried out stability of the regime as the work of repression The mutability of the past is the central have no objective existence, but survive only in is whatever the records and the memories agree of all records and in equally full control of past is whatever the Party chooses to make it. It it never has been altered in any specific in whatever shape is needed at the moment, then past can ever have existed. This holds good even altered out of recognition several times in is in possession of absolute truth, and clearly what it is now. It will be seen that the control of memory. To make sure that all written records a mechanical act. But it is also necessary to manner. And if it is necessary to rearrange then it is necessary to forget that one has done any other mental technique. It is learned by by all who are intelligent as well as orthodox. control'. In Newspeak it is called doublethink, DOUBLETHINK means the power of holding simultaneously, and accepting both of them. The memories must be altered; he therefore knows that exercise of DOUBLETHINK he also satisfies himself to be conscious, or it would not be carried out unconscious, or it would bring with it a feeling at the very heart of Ingsoc, since the essential while retaining the firmness of purpose that lies while genuinely believing in them, to forget when it becomes necessary again, to draw it back to deny the existence of objective reality and all denies--all this is indispensably necessary. Even to exercise doublethink. For by using the word by a fresh act of doublethink one erases with the lie always one leap ahead of the truth. Party has been able--and may, for all we of years--to arrest the course of history. either because they ossified or because they grew failed to adjust themselves to changing they became liberal and cowardly, made concessions were overthrown. They fell, that is to say, either It is the achievement of the Party to have conditions can exist simultaneously. And upon no Party be made permanent. If one is to rule, and the sense of reality. For the secret of rulership with the Power to learn from past mistakes. practitioners of doublethink are those who system of mental cheating. In our society, those are also those who are furthest from seeing the understanding, the greater the delusion; illustration of this is the fact that war hysteria scale. Those whose attitude towards the war is of the disputed territories. To these people the to and fro over their bodies like a tidal wave. indifference to them. They are aware that a change doing the same work as before for new masters who slightly more favoured workers whom we call 'the war. When it is necessary they can be prodded to themselves they are capable of forgetting for the ranks of the Party, and above all of the found. World-conquest is believed in most firmly peculiar linking-together of opposites--knowledge the chief distinguishing marks of Oceanic society. even when there is no practical reason for every principle for which the Socialist movement the name of Socialism. It preaches a contempt for and it dresses its members in a uniform which was adopted for that reason. It systematically and it calls its leader by a name which is a Even the names of the four Ministries by which we deliberate reversal of the facts. The Ministry of Truth with lies, the Ministry of Love with torture contradictions are not accidental, nor they are deliberate exercises in doublethink. that power can be retained indefinitely. In no If human equality is to be for ever averted--if their places permanently--then the prevailing But there is one question which until why should human equality be averted? process have been rightly described, accurately planned effort to freeze Here we reach the central secret. As we and above all of the Inner Party, depends the original motive, the never-questioned power and brought doublethink, the Thought other necessary paraphernalia into existence Winston became aware of silence, as one to him that Julia had been very still for naked from the waist upwards, with one dark lock tumbling across her eyes. Her 'Julia.' No answer. 'Julia, are you awake?' shut the book, put it carefully on the floor, lay He had still, he reflected, not learned he did not understand WHY. Chapter 1, like Chapter not know, it had merely systematized the after reading it he knew better than before even a minority of one, did not make you and if you clung to the truth even against beam from the sinking sun slanted in through the eyes. The sun on his face and the girl's smooth confident feeling. He was safe, everything was not statistical,' with the feeling that this When he woke it was with the sensation of at the old-fashioned clock told him that it was then the usual deep-lunged singing 'It was only an 'opeless fancy, But a look an' a word an' the dreams they stirred The drivelling song seemed to have kept over the place. It had outlived the stretched herself luxuriously, and got out of bed. 'I'm hungry,' she said. 'Let's make some and the water's cold.' She picked the stove 'We can get some from old Charrington, I expect.' 'The funny thing is I made sure clothes on,' she added. 'It Winston also got up and dressed himself. 'They sye that time 'eals all things, But the smiles an' the tears acrorss the years As he fastened the belt of his overalls he gone down behind the houses; it was not shining wet as though they had just been washed, and he so fresh and pale was the blue between the to and fro, corking and uncorking herself, singing and more and yet more. He wondered whether she slave of twenty or thirty grandchildren. Julia down with a sort of fascination at the sturdy characteristic attitude, her thick arms reaching protruded, it struck him for the first time occurred to him that the body of a woman of fifty, then hardened, roughened by work till it was could be beautiful. But it was so, and after all, like a block of granite, and the rasping body of a girl as the rose-hip to the rose. Why 'She's beautiful,' he murmured. 'She's a metre across the 'That is her style of beauty,' said Winston. his arm. From the hip to the knee her flank was ever come. That was the one thing they could never could they pass on the secret. The woman down a warm heart, and a fertile belly. He birth to. It might easily be fifteen. She had of wild-rose beauty and then she had suddenly and red and coarse, and then her life had been polishing, mending, scrubbing, laundering, over thirty unbroken years. At the end of it she felt for her was somehow mixed up with the aspect the chimney-pots into interminable distance. It everybody, in Eurasia or Eastasia as well as here. the same--everywhere, all over the world, hundreds people ignorant of one another's existence, held exactly the same--people who had never learned to bellies and muscles the power that would one it lay in the proles! Without having read to Goldstein's final message. The future belonged to time came the world they constructed would as the world of the Party? Yes, because at the is equality there can be sanity. Sooner or into consciousness. The proles were immortal, valiant figure in the yard. In the end their though it might be a thousand years, they would passing on from body to body the vitality which 'Do you remember,' he said, 'the thrush that sang 'He wasn't singing to us,' said himself. Not even that. He was just singing.' The birds sang, the proles sang. the Party did not in Africa and Brazil, and in the mysterious, in the streets of Paris and Berlin, in in the bazaars of China and Japan--everywhere made monstrous by work and childbearing, Out of those mighty loins a race of conscious theirs was the future. But you could share they kept alive the body, and passed on the 'We are the dead,' he said. 'We are the dead,' echoed Julia dutifully. 'You are the dead,' said They sprang apart. Winston's entrails seemed all round the irises of Julia's eyes. Her face had still on each cheekbone stood out sharply, almost 'You are the dead,' repeated the iron voice. 'It was behind the picture,' breathed Julia. 'It was behind the picture,' said you are. Make no movement until you are ordered.' It was starting, it was starting at last! into one another's eyes. To run for life, late--no such thought occurred to them. from the wall. There was a snap as though of breaking glass. The picture had fallen to 'Now they can see us,' said Julia. 'Now we can see you,' said the voice. 'Stand back. Clasp your hands behind your They were not touching, but it seemed to him perhaps it was merely the shaking of his own. but his knees were beyond his control. inside the house and outside. The yard seemed across the stones. The woman's singing rolling clang, as though the washtub had been angry shouts which ended in a yell of pain. 'The house is surrounded,' said the voice. He heard Julia snap her teeth together. 'I 'You may as well say good-bye,' said the voice. cultivated voice which Winston had struck in; 'And by the way, &quot;Here comes a candle to light you to bed, Something crashed on to the bed behind been thrust through the window and had burst the window. There was a stampede of boots men in black uniforms, with iron-shod boots Winston was not trembling any longer. Even his to keep still, to keep still and not give smooth prize-fighter's jowl in which the mouth his truncheon meditatively between thumb and of nakedness, with one's hands behind one's was almost unbearable. The man protruded the his lips should have been, and then passed on. the glass paperweight from the table and The fragment of coral, a tiny crinkle of pink the mat. How small, thought Winston, how small it him, and he received a violent kick on the ankle the men had smashed his fist into Julia's solar was thrashing about on the floor, fighting for a millimetre, but sometimes her livid, gasping in his terror it was as though he could feel nevertheless was less urgent than the struggle the terrible, agonizing pain which was there because before all else it was necessary hoisted her up by knees and shoulders, sack. Winston had a glimpse of her face, upside and still with a smear of rouge on either He stood dead still. No one had hit him yet. seemed totally uninteresting began to flit had got Mr Charrington. He wondered what they that he badly wanted to urinate, and felt a two or three hours ago. He noticed that the clock But the light seemed too strong. Would not an August evening? He wondered whether after all clock round and thought it was twenty-thirty the following morning. But he did not pursue There was another, lighter step in the passage. of the black-uniformed men suddenly became Mr Charrington's appearance. His eye fell 'Pick up those pieces,' he said sharply. had disappeared; Winston suddenly realized whose on the telescreen. Mr Charrington was still which had been almost white, had turned black. Winston a single sharp glance, as though verifying him. He was still recognizable, but he was not the and seemed to have grown bigger. His face had worked a complete transformation. The black the whole lines of the face seemed to have was the alert, cold face of a man of about for the first time in his life he was looking, Part Three. He did not know where he was. Presumably he was making certain. He was in a high-ceilinged white porcelain. Concealed lamps flooded it humming sound which he supposed had something just wide enough to sit on ran round the wall, the door, a lavatory pan with no wooden seat. There was a dull aching in his belly. It had into the closed van and driven him away. unwholesome kind of hunger. It might be it might be thirty-six. He still did not know, morning or evening when they arrested him. He sat as still as he could on the narrow He had already learned to sit still. If you from the telescreen. But the craving for for above all was a piece of bread. He had in the pocket of his overalls. It was even to time something seemed to tickle his leg--that the end the temptation to find out overcame 'Smith!' yelled a voice from the telescreen. '6079 He sat still again, his hands crossed on his taken to another place which must have been an the patrols. He did not know how long he had clocks and no daylight it was hard to gauge the had put him into a cell similar to the one he crowded by ten or fifteen people. The majority a few political prisoners among them. He had sat too preoccupied by fear and the pain in his but still noticing the astonishing difference the others. The Party prisoners were always silent to care nothing for anybody. They yelled insults belongings were impounded, wrote obscene words on from mysterious hiding-places in their clothes, tried to restore order. On the other hand some of called them by nicknames, and tried to wheedle guards, too, treated the common criminals with handle them roughly. There was much talk about prisoners expected to be sent. It was 'all right' contacts and knew the ropes. There was bribery, there was homosexuality and prostitution, there The positions of trust were given only to the the murderers, who formed a sort of aristocracy. There was a constant come-and-go of prisoners bandits, black-marketeers, drunks, prostitutes. prisoners had to combine to suppress them. An with great tumbling breasts and thick coils of was carried in, kicking and shouting, at each corner. They wrenched off the boots and dumped her down across Winston's lap, hoisted herself upright and followed them noticing that she was sitting on something uneven, 'Beg pardon, dearie,' she said. only the buggers put me there. They dono patted her breast, and belched. 'Pardon,' She leant forward and vomited 'Thass better,' she said, leaning back with closed it up while it's fresh on your stomach, like.' Winston and seemed immediately to take his shoulder and drew him towards her, 'Wass your name, dearie?' she said. 'Smith,' said Winston. 'Smith?' said the woman. 'Thass she added sentimentally, 'I might be your mother!' She might, thought Winston, be his mother. and it was probable that people changed somewhat No one else had spoken to him. To a surprising prisoners. 'The polITS,' they called them, with a seemed terrified of speaking to anybody, and when two Party members, both women, were he overheard amid the din of voices and in particular a reference to something called It might be two or three hours ago that they belly never went away, but sometimes it grew expanded or contracted accordingly. When it and of his desire for food. When it grew better, foresaw the things that would happen to him with breath stopped. He felt the smash of truncheons saw himself grovelling on the floor, screaming for Julia. He could not fix his mind on her. He loved fact, known as he knew the rules of arithmetic. He what was happening to her. He thought oftener of know that he had been arrested. The Brotherhood, there was the razor blade; they would send the five seconds before the guard could rush into the burning coldness, and even the fingers that held to his sick body, which shrank trembling from the use the razor blade even if he got the chance. It accepting another ten minutes' life even with the Sometimes he tried to calculate the number of should have been easy, but he always lost count where he was, and what time of day it was. At one outside, and at the next equally certain he knew instinctively, the lights would never be he saw now why O'Brien had seemed to recognize no windows. His cell might be at the heart it might be ten floors below ground, mentally from place to place, and of his body whether he was perched high There was a sound of marching boots outside. The a trim black-uniformed figure who seemed and whose pale, straight-featured face was the doorway. He motioned to the guards were leading. The poet Ampleforth shambled Ampleforth made one or two uncertain as though having some idea that there was to wander up and down the cell. He had not yet were gazing at the wall about a metre above large, dirty toes were sticking out several days away from a shave. A scrubby giving him an air of ruffianism that went oddly Winston roused himself a little from his lethargy. from the telescreen. It was even conceivable that 'Ampleforth,' he said. telescreen. Ampleforth paused, mildly startled. 'Ah, Smith!' he said. 'You too!' 'What are you in for?' 'To tell you the truth--' He sat down awkwardly on the bench opposite Winston. 'There is 'And have you committed it?' 'Apparently I have.' He put a hand to his forehead and as though trying to remember something. 'These things happen,' he began vaguely. 'I instance. It was an indiscretion, undoubtedly. poems of Kipling. I allowed the word &quot;God&quot; to it!' he added almost indignantly, raising his change the line. The rhyme was &quot;rod&quot;. Do you &quot;rod&quot; in the entire language? For days I had The expression on his face changed. for a moment he looked almost pleased. of the pedant who has found out some useless 'Has it ever occurred to you,' he said, has been determined by the fact that No, that particular thought had in the circumstances, did it strike 'Do you know what time of day it is?' he said. Ampleforth looked startled again. arrested me--it could be two days ago--perhaps as though he half expected to find a window night and day in this place. I do not They talked desultorily for some minutes, the telescreen bade them be silent. Winston too large to sit in comfort on the clasping his lank hands first round one knee, at him to keep still. Time passed. Twenty Once more there was a sound of boots outside. perhaps in five minutes, perhaps now, the tramp The door opened. The cold-faced cell. With a brief movement of 'Room 101,' he said. Ampleforth marched clumsily his face vaguely perturbed, but uncomprehending. What seemed like a long time passed. The pain in and round on the same trick, like a ball falling had only six thoughts. The pain in his belly; O'Brien; Julia; the razor blade. There was were approaching. As the door opened, the wave of cold sweat. Parsons walked into the cell. He This time Winston was startled 'YOU here!' he said. Parsons gave Winston a glance in which there was He began walking jerkily up and down, evidently his pudgy knees it was apparent that they were as though he could not prevent himself from 'What are you in for?' said Winston. 'Thoughtcrime!' said Parsons, almost blubbering. admission of his guilt and a sort of be applied to himself. He paused opposite 'You don't think they'll shoot me, do you, old done anything--only thoughts, which you can't help? them for that! They'll know my record, won't they? in my way. Not brainy, of course, but keen. I I'll get off with five years, don't you think? Or pretty useful in a labour-camp. They wouldn't 'Are you guilty?' said Winston. a servile glance at the telescreen. 'You don't do you?' His frog-like face grew calmer, and 'Thoughtcrime is a dreadful thing, old man,' get hold of you without your even knowing it. Do that's a fact. There I was, working away, trying mind at all. And then I started talking in my He sank his voice, like someone who is obliged '&quot;Down with Big Brother!&quot; Yes, I said it seems. Between you and me, old man, further. Do you know what I'm going to say &quot;Thank you,&quot; I'm going to say, &quot;thank you 'Who denounced you?' said Winston. 'It was my little daughter,' said Parsons at the keyhole. Heard what I was saying, and Pretty smart for a nipper of seven, eh? I I'm proud of her. It shows I brought He made a few more jerky movements a longing glance at the lavatory pan. 'Excuse me, old man,' he said. 'I He plumped his large posterior into the lavatory 'Smith!' yelled the voice from Uncover your face. No faces covered in the cells.' Winston uncovered his face. Parsons used then turned out that the plug was defective and Parsons was removed. More prisoners came and went, 101', and, Winston noticed, seemed to shrivel words. A time came when, if it had been morning or if it had been afternoon, then it would be men and women. All sat very still. Opposite toothy face exactly like that of mottled cheeks were so pouched at the bottom had little stores of food tucked away there. face to face and turned quickly away The door opened, and another prisoner was brought Winston. He was a commonplace, mean-looking man of some kind. But what was startling was a skull. Because of its thinness the mouth and the eyes seemed filled with a murderous, The man sat down on the bench at a little distance but the tormented, skull-like face was been straight in front of his eyes. Suddenly dying of starvation. The same thought seemed to cell. There was a very faint stirring all the man kept flitting towards the skull-faced man, back by an irresistible attraction. Presently he waddled clumsily across the cell, dug and, with an abashed air, held out a grimy There was a furious, deafening roar from in his tracks. The skull-faced man had as though demonstrating to all the 'Bumstead!' roared the voice. '2713 The chinless man dropped the 'Remain standing where you are,' said the The chinless man obeyed. His large pouchy cheeks open. As the young officer entered and stepped stumpy guard with enormous arms and shoulders. and then, at a signal from the with all the weight of his body behind it, of it seemed almost to knock him clear of the fetched up against the base of the lavatory with dark blood oozing from his mouth and nose. A unconscious, came out of him. Then he rolled knees. Amid a stream of blood and saliva, the two The prisoners sat very still, their hands climbed back into his place. Down one side of had swollen into a shapeless cherry-coloured From time to time a little blood dripped grey eyes still flitted from face as though he were trying to discover how much The door opened. With a small gesture the 'Room 101,' he said. There was a gasp and a flurry actually flung himself on his knees on 'Comrade! Officer!' he cried. 'You don't have everything already? What else is it you want nothing! Just tell me what it is Write it down and I'll sign 'Room 101,' said the officer. The man's face, already very pale, turned possible. It was definitely, 'Do anything to me!' he yelled. 'You've been me die. Shoot me. Hang me. Sentence me to you want me to give away? Just say who it I don't care who it is or what you do to The biggest of them isn't six years old. their throats in front of my eyes, and I'll 'Room 101,' said the officer. The man looked frantically as though with some idea that he could eyes settled on the smashed face of the 'That's the one you ought to be taking, what he was saying after they bashed his every word of it. HE'S the one that's stepped forward. The man's voice rose to a 'Something went wrong with the telescreen. The two sturdy guards had stooped to take him himself across the floor of the cell and grabbed He had set up a wordless howling, like an animal. but he clung on with astonishing strength. at him. The prisoners sat quiet, looking straight in front of them. The left for anything except hanging on. Then from a guard's boot had broken the fingers of 'Room 101,' said the officer. The man was led out, walking unsteadily, all the fight had gone out of him. midnight when the skull-faced man was it was afternoon. Winston was alone, and had been bench was such that often he got up and walked of bread still lay where the chinless man had effort not to look at it, but presently hunger evil-tasting. The humming sound and the unvarying feeling inside his head. He would get up because and then would sit down again almost at once on his feet. Whenever his physical sensations Sometimes with a fading hope he thought of O'Brien razor blade might arrive concealed in his food, if Somewhere or other she was suffering perhaps pain at this moment. He thought: 'If I could save I would.' But that was merely an intellectual to take it. He did not feel it. In this place foreknowledge of pain. Besides, was it possible, any reason that your own pain should increase? The boots were approaching again. Winston started to his feet. The shock of him. For the first time in many years 'They've got you too!' he cried. 'They got me a long time ago,' said O'Brien with From behind him there emerged a broad-chested 'You know this, Winston,' said O'Brien. 'Don't deceive yourself. You did know Yes, he saw now, he had always known it. All he had eyes for was the truncheon in on the crown, on the tip of the ear, The elbow! He had slumped to his knees, almost other hand. Everything had exploded into yellow blow could cause such pain! The light cleared and The guard was laughing at his contortions. One reason on earth, could you wish for an increase that it should stop. Nothing in the world was so are no heroes, no heroes, he thought over and over his disabled left arm. He was lying on something that felt like a camp and that he was fixed down in some way so that than usual was falling on his face. O'Brien intently. At the other side of him stood a man Even after his eyes were open he took in the impression of swimming up into this a sort of underwater world far beneath it. know. Since the moment when they arrested him his memories were not continuous. There had consciousness that one has in sleep, had stopped But whether the intervals were of days or weeks With that first blow on the elbow the nightmare then happened was merely a preliminary, all prisoners were subjected. There was a and the like--to which everyone had to confess as a though the torture was real. How many times he had he could not remember. Always there were five or Sometimes it was fists, sometimes it was sometimes it was boots. There were times when he writhing his body this way and that in an endless, inviting more and yet more kicks, in his ribs, in his groin, in his testicles, on the bone at the on and on until the cruel, wicked, unforgivable to beat him but that he could not force himself his nerve so forsook him that he began shouting mere sight of a fist drawn back for a blow was real and imaginary crimes. There were other times nothing, when every word had to be forced out of when he feebly tried to compromise, when he said hold out till the pain becomes unbearable. Three them what they want.' Sometimes he was beaten sack of potatoes on to the stone floor of a cell, out and beaten again. There were also longer because they were spent chiefly in sleep or a sort of shelf sticking out from the wall, and and sometimes coffee. He remembered a surly barber and businesslike, unsympathetic men in white turning up his eyelids, running harsh fingers needles into his arm to make him sleep. and became mainly a threat, a horror to which answers were unsatisfactory. His questioners Party intellectuals, little rotund men with who worked on him in relays over periods which twelve hours at a stretch. These other questioners it was not chiefly pain that they relied on. They made him stand on one leg, refused him leave to his eyes ran with water; but the aim of this was arguing and reasoning. Their real weapon was hour after hour, tripping him up, laying traps convicting him at every step of lies and as much from shame as from nervous fatigue. a single session. Most of the time they screamed to deliver him over to the guards again; but call him comrade, appeal to him in the name of whether even now he had not enough loyalty to the had done. When his nerves were in rags after reduce him to snivelling tears. In the end the than the boots and fists of the guards. He became whatever was demanded of him. His sole concern and then confess it quickly, before the bullying of eminent Party members, the distribution of sale of military secrets, sabotage of every kind. the Eastasian government as far back as 1968. an admirer of capitalism, and a sexual pervert. although he knew, and his questioners must confessed that for years he had been in personal underground organization which had included It was easier to confess everything and implicate It was true that he had been the enemy of the no distinction between the thought and the deed. stood out in his mind disconnectedly, like He was in a cell which might because he could see nothing except a pair of ticking slowly and regularly. The eyes he floated out of his seat, dived He was strapped into a chair surrounded in a white coat was reading the dials. There clanged open. The waxed-faced officer 'Room One O One,' said the officer. The man in the white coat did not turn he was looking only at the dials. He was rolling down a mighty corridor, a kilometre laughter and shouting out confessions at the even the things he had succeeded in holding entire history of his life to an audience who the other questioners, the men in white coats, the corridor together and shouting with laughter. the future had somehow been skipped over and there was no more pain, the last detail of He was starting up from the plank bed in the voice. All through his interrogation, although that O'Brien was at his elbow, just out of sight. was he who set the guards on to Winston and who decided when Winston should scream with pain, when when he should sleep, when the drugs should the questions and suggested the answers. he was the inquisitor, he was the friend. And in drugged sleep, or in normal sleep, or even in a 'Don't worry, Winston; you are in my keeping. the turning-point has come. I shall save not sure whether it was O'Brien's voice; but 'We shall meet in the place where there is no He did not remember any ending to his and then the cell, or room, in which he now was almost flat on his back, and unable to move. His the back of his head was gripped in some manner. sadly. His face, seen from below, looked coarse lines from nose to chin. He was older than Winston fifty. Under his hand there was a dial with a 'I told you,' said O'Brien, 'that 'Yes,' said Winston. Without any warning except a slight movement body. It was a frightening pain, because and he had the feeling that some mortal injury the thing was really happening, or whether the being wrenched out of shape, the joints were being the sweat out on his forehead, the worst of all He set his teeth and breathed hard through his 'You are afraid,' said O'Brien, watching his face, 'that in another moment something is going to your backbone. You have a vivid mental picture fluid dripping out of them. That is what Winston did not answer. O'Brien drew of pain receded almost as quickly as it had come. 'That was forty,' said O'Brien. 'You run up to a hundred. Will you please that I have it in my power to inflict pain I choose? If you tell me any lies, or attempt to usual level of intelligence, you will cry out 'Yes,' said Winston. O'Brien's manner became less severe. He and took a pace or two up and down. When he spoke of a doctor, a teacher, even a priest, anxious 'I am taking trouble with you, Winston,' he know perfectly well what is the matter though you have fought against the knowledge. defective memory. You are unable to remember real other events which never happened. Fortunately it because you did not choose to. There was a small make. Even now, I am well aware, you are clinging virtue. Now we will take an example. At this 'When I was arrested, Oceania 'With Eastasia. Good. And Oceania has always Winston drew in his breath. He opened his mouth to speak and then did not speak. He could 'The truth, please, Winston. YOUR truth. 'I remember that until only a week before Eastasia at all. We were in alliance That had lasted for four years. Before that----' 'Another example,' he said. 'Some years ago believed that three men, three one-time and Rutherford--men who were executed for fullest possible confession--were not guilty of that you had seen unmistakable documentary false. There was a certain photograph about that you had actually held it in your hands. An oblong slip of newspaper had appeared between was within the angle of Winston's vision. It of its identity. It was THE photograph. It Aaronson, and Rutherford at the party function years ago and promptly destroyed. For then it was out of sight again. But he had made a desperate, agonizing effort to wrench the move so much as a centimetre in any direction. All he wanted was to hold the photograph in 'It exists!' he cried. 'No,' said O'Brien. He stepped across the room. There was a memory grating. Unseen, the frail slip of paper was it was vanishing in a flash of flame. 'Ashes,' he said. 'Not even identifiable ashes. 'But it did exist! It does exist! It exists 'I do not remember it,' said O'Brien. Winston's heart sank. That was doublethink. he could have been certain that O'Brien matter. But it was perfectly possible photograph. And if so, then already he would and forgotten the act of forgetting. How could that lunatic dislocation in the mind could really O'Brien was looking down at him had the air of a teacher taking pains 'There is a Party slogan dealing with the control '&quot;Who controls the past controls the future: who controls the present controls the '&quot;Who controls the present controls the with slow approval. 'Is it your opinion, Again the feeling of helplessness descended upon not only did not know whether 'yes' or 'no' he did not even know which answer O'Brien smiled faintly. 'You are no metaphysician, Winston,' he said. 'Until this moment you had I will put it more precisely. Does the somewhere or other a place, a world of solid 'No.' 'Then where does the past exist, if at all?' 'In records. It is written down.' 'In records. And----?' 'In the mind. In human memories.' 'In memory. Very well, then. We, and we control all memories. Then 'But how can you stop people Winston again momentarily forgetting outside oneself. How can you control O'Brien's manner grew stern again. 'On the contrary,' he said, 'YOU have not here. You are here because you have failed not make the act of submission which is the a minority of one. Only the disciplined mind can is something objective, external, existing in of reality is self-evident. When you delude you assume that everyone else sees the same thing not external. Reality exists in the human mind, which can make mistakes, and in any case which is collective and immortal. Whatever It is impossible to see reality except That is the fact that you have got to relearn, an effort of the will. You must humble He paused for a few moments, as though to 'Do you remember,' he went &quot;Freedom is the freedom to say 'Yes,' said Winston. O'Brien held up his left hand, with the thumb hidden and 'How many fingers am I holding up, Winston?' 'Four.' 'And if the party says that it is 'Four.' The word ended in a gasp of pain. The needle sweat had sprung out all over Winston's body. in deep groans which even by clenching his the four fingers still extended. He drew back the 'How many fingers, Winston?' 'Four.' The needle went up to sixty. 'How many fingers, Winston?' 'Four! Four! What else can I say? Four!' The needle must have risen again, stern face and the four fingers filled his vision. enormous, blurry, and seeming to 'How many fingers, Winston?' 'Four! Stop it, stop it! How 'How many fingers, Winston?' 'Five! Five! Five!' 'No, Winston, that is no use. You are lying. You still think there are four. 'Four! five! Four! Anything you Abruptly he was sitting up with O'Brien's consciousness for a few seconds. The bonds that cold, he was shaking uncontrollably, his teeth cheeks. For a moment he clung to O'Brien like a his shoulders. He had the feeling that O'Brien was came from outside, from some other source, and 'You are a slow learner, 'How can I help it?' he blubbered. 'How can I help seeing what is in front of 'Sometimes, Winston. Sometimes they are they are all of them at once. You must try He laid Winston down on the bed. The but the pain had ebbed away and the trembling O'Brien motioned with his head to the man in the proceedings. The man in the white coat bent felt his pulse, laid an ear against his chest, 'Again,' said O'Brien. The pain flowed into Winston's body. The needle eyes this time. He knew that the fingers were was somehow to stay alive until the spasm was crying out or not. The pain lessened again. He 'How many fingers, Winston?' 'Four. I suppose there are four. I would see 'Which do you wish: to persuade me that 'Really to see them.' 'Again,' said O'Brien. eighty--ninety. Winston could not intermittently screwed-up eyelids a forest of fingers weaving in and out, disappearing behind one to count them, he could not remember why. He and that this was somehow due to the mysterious down again. When he opened his eyes it was thing. Innumerable fingers, like moving trees, crossing and recrossing. He shut his eyes again. 'I don't know. I don't know. You will five, six--in all honesty I don't know.' 'Better,' said O'Brien. A needle slid into Winston's arm. Almost in spread all through his body. The pain was and looked up gratefully at O'Brien. At sight of his heart seemed to turn over. If he could have it on O'Brien's arm. He had never loved him so he had stopped the pain. The old feeling, that a friend or an enemy, had come back. O'Brien was not want to be loved so much as to be understood. and in a little while, it was certain, he would some sense that went deeper than friendship, although the actual words might never be meet and talk. O'Brien was looking down at the same thought might be in his own mind. When 'Do you know where you are, Winston?' he said. 'I don't know. I can guess. 'Do you know how long you have been here?' 'I don't know. Days, weeks, 'And why do you imagine that 'To make them confess.' 'No, that is not the reason. Try again.' 'To punish them.' 'No!' exclaimed O'Brien. His voice had had suddenly become both stern and animated. not to punish you. Shall I tell you why make you sane! Will you understand, Winston, leaves our hands uncured? We are not interested The Party is not interested in the overt do not merely destroy our enemies, we change He was bending over Winston. His face and hideously ugly because it was seen from below. a lunatic intensity. Again Winston's heart cowered deeper into the bed. He felt certain of sheer wantonness. At this moment, however, and down. Then he continued less vehemently: in this place there are no martyrdoms. You have In the Middle Ages there was the Inquisition. It and ended by perpetuating it. For every heretic it Why was that? Because the Inquisition killed its were still unrepentant: in fact, it killed them because they would not abandon their true beliefs. all the shame to the Inquisitor who burned him. totalitarians, as they were called. There were The Russians persecuted heresy more cruelly than they had learned from the mistakes of the past; martyrs. Before they exposed their victims to to destroy their dignity. They wore them down by cringing wretches, confessing whatever was put accusing and sheltering behind one another, years the same thing had happened over again. The was forgotten. Once again, why was it? In the had made were obviously extorted and untrue. confessions that are uttered here are true. We the dead to rise up against us. You must stop Winston. Posterity will never hear of you. You history. We shall turn you into gas and pour you not a name in a register, not a memory in a living as in the future. You will never have existed.' with a momentary bitterness. O'Brien checked thought aloud. His large ugly face came 'You are thinking,' he said, 'that so that nothing that you say or do can make the to the trouble of interrogating you first? 'Yes,' said Winston. O'Brien smiled slightly. 'You are a flaw in the wiped out. Did I not tell you just now that we are not content with negative obedience, nor even surrender to us, it must be of your own free will. us: so long as he resists us we never destroy we reshape him. We burn all evil and all illusion appearance, but genuinely, heart and soul. We make intolerable to us that an erroneous thought should powerless it may be. Even in the instant of death the heretic walked to the stake still a heretic, victim of the Russian purges could carry rebellion passage waiting for the bullet. But we make the of the old despotisms was &quot;Thou shalt not&quot;. The Our command is &quot;Thou Art&quot;. No one whom we bring to washed clean. Even those three miserable traitors Aaronson, and Rutherford--in the end we broke them I saw them gradually worn down, whimpering, with pain or fear, only with penitence. By the the shells of men. There was nothing left in them Big Brother. It was touching to see how they loved could die while their minds were still clean.' the lunatic enthusiasm, was still in his face. He hypocrite, he believes every word he says. What own intellectual inferiority. He watched the in and out of the range of his vision. O'Brien was no idea that he had ever had, or could examined, and rejected. His mind contained it be true that O'Brien was mad? It must be he, down at him. His voice had grown stern again. Winston, however completely you surrender to spared. And even if we chose to let you live out never escape from us. What happens to you here crush you down to the point from which there is no you could not recover, if you lived a thousand human feeling. Everything will be dead inside or friendship, or joy of living, or laughter, will be hollow. We shall squeeze you empty, He paused and signed to the man in the white apparatus being pushed into place behind his so that his face was almost 'Three thousand,' he said, speaking over Two soft pads, which felt slightly moist, clamped There was pain coming, a new kind of pain. O'Brien 'This time it will not hurt,' he At this moment there was a devastating though it was not certain whether there was any light. Winston was not hurt, only prostrated. when the thing happened, he had a curious position. A terrific painless blow had flattened head. As his eyes regained their focus he and recognized the face that was gazing into large patch of emptiness, as though a 'It will not last,' said O'Brien. 'Look me in Winston thought. He knew what he himself was a citizen of Oceania. He but who was at war with whom he did not know. In 'I don't remember.' 'Oceania is at war with Eastasia. 'Yes.' 'Oceania has always been at war with since the beginning of the Party, the war has continued without a break, 'Yes.' 'Eleven years ago you created a legend about treachery. You pretended that you had seen a such piece of paper ever existed. You invented remember now the very moment at which you 'Yes.' 'Just now I held up the fingers of my hand to 'Yes.' O'Brien held up the fingers of his 'There are five fingers there. 'Yes.' And he did see them, for a fleeting instant, five fingers, and there was no deformity. Then the hatred, and the bewilderment came a moment--he did not know how long, thirty when each new suggestion of O'Brien's had filled and when two and two could have if that were what was needed. It had faded but though he could not recapture it, he experience at some period of one's life 'You see now,' said O'Brien, 'Yes,' said Winston. satisfied air. Over to his left Winston saw the back the plunger of a syringe. O'Brien turned manner he resettled his spectacles on his nose. 'that it did not matter whether I was a friend understood you and could be talked to? You mind appeals to me. It resembles my own mind we bring the session to an end you can 'Any question I like?' 'Anything.' He saw that Winston's eyes were upon the dial. 'It is switched off. 'What have you done with Julia?' said Winston. O'Brien smiled again. 'She betrayed you, seldom seen anyone come over to us so promptly. All her rebelliousness, her deceit, her has been burned out of her. It was a 'You tortured her?' O'Brien left this unanswered. 'Does Big Brother exist?' 'Of course he exists. The Party exists. Big 'Does he exist in the same way as I exist?' 'You do not exist,' said O'Brien. Once again the sense of helplessness the arguments which proved his own they were only a play on words. Did contain a logical absurdity? But what use thought of the unanswerable, mad arguments 'I think I exist,' he said wearily. 'I am and I shall die. I have arms and legs. I occupy a can occupy the same point simultaneously. 'It is of no importance. He exists.' 'Will Big Brother ever die?' 'Of course not. How could he die? Next question.' 'Does the Brotherhood exist?' 'That, Winston, you will never know. If we choose and if you live to be ninety years old, still question is Yes or No. As long as you live Winston lay silent. His breast rose not asked the question that had come into and yet it was as though his tongue would in O'Brien's face. Even his spectacles thought Winston suddenly, he knows what I am going 'What is in Room One O One' The expression on O'Brien's face 'You know what is in Room One O One, Winston. He raised a finger to the man in the white A needle jerked into Winston's arm. He Chapter 3. 'There are three stages in your reintegration,' understanding, and there is acceptance. It is As always, Winston was lying flat on his They still held him to the bed, but he turn his head from side to side and raise had grown to be less of a terror. He could it was chiefly when he showed stupidity that through a whole session without use of the dial. been. The whole process seemed to stretch out over intervals between the sessions might sometimes 'As you lie there,' said O'Brien, 'you have often of Love should expend so much time and trouble on what was essentially the same question. You could but not its underlying motives. Do &quot;I understand HOW: I do not understand that you doubted your own sanity. You or parts of it, at least. Did it tell you 'You have read it?' said Winston. 'I wrote it. That is to say, I collaborated in writing it. No book 'Is it true, what it says?' 'As description, yes. The programme accumulation of knowledge--a gradual spread rebellion--the overthrow of the Party. You foresaw all nonsense. The proletarians will never revolt, I do not have to tell you the reason: you know dreams of violent insurrection, you must abandon overthrown. The rule of the Party is for ever. He came closer to the bed. 'For ever!' the question of &quot;how&quot; and &quot;why&quot;. You maintains itself in power. Now tell me WHY should we want power? Go on, speak,' Nevertheless Winston did not speak for had overwhelmed him. The faint, mad gleam of He knew in advance what O'Brien would say. That but only for the good of the majority. That it cowardly creatures who could not endure liberty systematically deceived by others who were mankind lay between freedom and happiness, and was better. That the party was the eternal evil that good might come, sacrificing its own thought Winston, the terrible thing was that when see it in his face. O'Brien knew everything. A the world was really like, in what degradation and barbarities the Party kept them there. and it made no difference: all was justified thought Winston, against the lunatic who gives your arguments a fair hearing 'You are ruling over us for our believe that human beings are not fit He started and almost cried out. A body. O'Brien had pushed the lever 'That was stupid, Winston, stupid!' he said. 'You He pulled the lever back and continued: It is this. The Party seeks power entirely for of others; we are interested solely in power. only power, pure power. What pure power means from all the oligarchies of the past, in that even those who resembled ourselves, were and the Russian Communists came very close the courage to recognize their own motives. that they had seized power unwillingly and for there lay a paradise where human beings would be no one ever seizes power with the intention of an end. One does not establish a dictatorship in revolution in order to establish the dictatorship. object of torture is torture. The object of power Winston was struck, as he had been struck before, and fleshy and brutal, it was full of intelligence felt himself helpless; but it was tired. There from the cheekbones. O'Brien leaned over him, 'You are thinking,' he said, 'that my face is old and yet I am not even able to prevent the Winston, that the individual is only the vigour of the organism. Do you He turned away from the bed and began strolling 'We are the priests of power,' he said. 'God is far as you are concerned. It is time for you first thing you must realize is that power is far as he ceases to be an individual. You know ever occurred to you that it is reversible? being is always defeated. It must be so, which is the greatest of all failures. But if can escape from his identity, if he can merge then he is all-powerful and immortal. The second over human beings. Over the body--but, above all, as you would call it--is not important. For a moment Winston ignored the dial. himself into a sitting position, and merely 'But how can you control matter?' he climate or the law of gravity. And O'Brien silenced him by a movement of his hand. Reality is inside the skull. You will learn by not do. Invisibility, levitation--anything. bubble if I wish to. I do not wish to, because of those nineteenth-century ideas about the 'But you do not! You are not What about Eurasia and Eastasia? 'Unimportant. We shall conquer them what difference would it make? We can shut 'But the world itself is only a speck of has he been in existence? For millions 'Nonsense. The earth is as old as we are, no older. How could it be older? Nothing 'But the rocks are full of the bones of and enormous reptiles which lived here 'Have you ever seen those bones, Winston? biologists invented them. Before if he could come to an end, there would 'But the whole universe is outside us. million light-years away. They 'What are the stars?' said O'Brien indifferently. could reach them if we wanted to. Or we could universe. The sun and the stars go round it.' time he did not say anything. O'Brien continued 'For certain purposes, of course, that is not predict an eclipse, we often find it convenient to the stars are millions upon millions of kilometres us to produce a dual system of astronomy? The need them. Do you suppose our mathematicians are Winston shrank back upon the bed. Whatever a bludgeon. And yet he knew, he KNEW, that exists outside your own mind--surely there must be it not been exposed long ago as a fallacy? forgotten. A faint smile twitched the corners 'I told you, Winston,' he said, 'that The word you are trying to think of is is not solipsism. Collective solipsism, if you the opposite thing. All this is a digression,' the power we have to fight for night and day, is and for a moment assumed again his air of a 'How does one man assert his Winston thought. 'By making him suffer,' he said. 'Exactly. By making him suffer. Obedience is not sure that he is obeying your will and not his own? is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting choosing. Do you begin to see, then, what kind of of the stupid hedonistic Utopias that the old and torment, a world of trampling and being but MORE merciless as it refines itself. Progress The old civilizations claimed that they were hatred. In our world there will be no emotions Everything else we shall destroy--everything. which have survived from before the Revolution. and between man and man, and between man and a friend any longer. But in the future there will from their mothers at birth, as one takes eggs Procreation will be an annual formality like the orgasm. Our neurologists are at work upon it now. the Party. There will be no love, except the except the laugh of triumph over a defeated enemy. When we are omnipotent we shall have no more need beauty and ugliness. There will be no curiosity, pleasures will be destroyed. But always--do the intoxication of power, constantly increasing moment, there will be the thrill of victory, is helpless. If you want a picture of the future, He paused as though he expected Winston to speak. of the bed again. He could not say anything. 'And remember that it is for ever. The face will the enemy of society, will always be there, so Everything that you have undergone since you have worse. The espionage, the betrayals, the arrests, will never cease. It will be a world of terror is powerful, the less it will be tolerant: the Goldstein and his heresies will live for ever. discredited, ridiculed, spat upon and yet they out with you during seven years will be played out always in subtler forms. Always we shall have the broken up, contemptible--and in the end utterly feet of his own accord. That is the world that we victory, triumph after triumph after triumph: the nerve of power. You are beginning, I can see, the end you will do more than understand it. You Winston had recovered himself sufficiently 'What do you mean by that remark, Winston?' 'You could not create such a world as you have 'Why?' 'It is impossible to found a civilization on fear 'Why not?' 'It would have no vitality. It would 'Nonsense. You are under the impression that it be? And if it were, what difference to wear ourselves out faster. Suppose that we senile at thirty. Still what difference that the death of the individual is As usual, the voice had battered Winston into if he persisted in his disagreement And yet he could not keep silent. Feebly, him except his inarticulate horror of what 'I don't know--I don't care. Somehow you will fail. 'We control life, Winston, at all its levels. You nature which will be outraged by what we do and Men are infinitely malleable. Or perhaps you have or the slaves will arise and overthrow us. like the animals. Humanity is the Party. 'I don't care. In the end they will see you for what you are, and then 'Do you see any evidence that that is 'No. I believe it. I know that you universe--I don't know, some spirit, some 'Do you believe in God, Winston?' 'No.' 'Then what is it, this 'I don't know. The spirit of Man.' 'And do you consider yourself a man?' 'Yes.' 'If you are a man, Winston, you are we are the inheritors. Do you understand you are non-existent.' His manner 'And you consider yourself morally superior 'Yes, I consider myself superior.' O'Brien did not speak. Two other voices were of them as his own. It was a sound-track of the when he had enrolled himself in the Brotherhood. to forge, to murder, to encourage drug-taking and to throw vitriol in a child's face. O'Brien that the demonstration was hardly worth making. 'Get up from that bed,' he said. The bonds had loosened themselves. Winston lowered 'You are the last man,' said O'Brien. 'You are yourself as you are. Take off your clothes.' overalls together. The zip fastener had long remember whether at any time since his arrest he the overalls his body was looped with filthy of underclothes. As he slid them to the ground he end of the room. He approached it, then stopped 'Go on,' said O'Brien. 'Stand between the wings of He had stopped because he was frightened. was coming towards him. Its actual appearance he knew it to be himself. He moved closer to the because of its bent carriage. A forlorn, running back into a bald scalp, a crooked nose, eyes were fierce and watchful. The cheeks were it was his own face, but it seemed to him that The emotions it registered would be different from the first moment he had thought that he had gone grey. Except for his hands and a circle of his ingrained dirt. Here and there under the and near the ankle the varicose ulcer was an But the truly frightening thing was the emaciation as that of a skeleton: the legs had shrunk so He saw now what O'Brien had meant about seeing astonishing. The thin shoulders were hunched the scraggy neck seemed to be bending double would have said that it was the body of a man 'You have thought sometimes,' said a member of the Inner Party--looks old and He seized Winston's shoulder and spun 'Look at the condition you are in!' he said. Look at the dirt between your toes. Look at that that you stink like a goat? Probably you have Do you see? I can make my thumb and forefinger like a carrot. Do you know that you have been in our hands? Even your hair is coming out and brought away a tuft of hair. 'Open your had you when you came to us? And the few you have He seized one of Winston's remaining and forefinger. A twinge of pain shot wrenched the loose tooth out by the 'You are rotting away,' he said; 'you are filth. Now turn around and look into that mirror the last man. If you are human, that is Winston began to dress himself with slow stiff how thin and weak he was. Only one thought stirred longer than he had imagined. Then suddenly as feeling of pity for his ruined body overcame him. on to a small stool that stood beside the bed and his gracelessness, a bundle of bones in filthy light: but he could not stop himself. O'Brien 'It will not last for ever,' he said. 'You can escape from it whenever you choose. 'You did it!' sobbed Winston. 'No, Winston, you reduced yourself to it. This is the Party. It was all contained in that first act. He paused, and then went on: have broken you up. You have seen what your body not think there can be much pride left in you. you have screamed with pain, you have rolled have whimpered for mercy, you have betrayed single degradation that has not happened to you?' were still oozing out of his 'I have not betrayed Julia,' he said. O'Brien looked down at him 'no; that is perfectly true. The peculiar reverence for O'Brien, flooded Winston's heart again. How intelligent, he to understand what was said to him. Anyone else HAD betrayed Julia. For what was there that they had told them everything he knew about her, he had confessed in the most trivial detail all that he had said to her and she to him, their plottings against the Party--everything. And he had not betrayed her. He had not stopped remained the same. O'Brien had seen what 'Tell me,' he said, 'how soon will they shoot me?' 'It might be a long time,' said O'Brien. up hope. Everyone is cured sooner or Chapter 4. He was much better. He was growing if it was proper to speak of days. The white light and the humming sound were the comfortable than the others he had been in. There and a stool to sit on. They had given him a fairly frequently in a tin basin. They even gave new underclothes and a clean suit of overalls. ointment. They had pulled out the remnants of Weeks or months must have passed. keep count of the passage of time, if since he was being fed at what appeared to be three meals in the twenty-four hours; sometimes night or by day. The food was surprisingly good, a packet of cigarettes. He had no matches, but would give him a light. The first time he tried and spun the packet out for a long time, They had given him a white slate with a stump of of it. Even when he was awake he was completely next almost without stirring, sometimes asleep, it was too much trouble to open his eyes. He had his face. It seemed to make no difference, except a great deal all through this time, and they were or he was sitting among enormous glorious, with O'Brien--not doing anything, merely sitting in as he had when he was awake were mostly about of intellectual effort, now that the stimulus of desire for conversation or distraction. Merely to have enough to eat, and to be clean By degrees he came to spend less time in sleep, All he cared for was to lie quiet and feel finger himself here and there, trying to make sure growing rounder and his skin tauter. Finally it fatter; his thighs were now definitely thicker he began exercising himself regularly. In a measured by pacing the cell, and his bowed more elaborate exercises, and was astonished not do. He could not move out of a walk, he he could not stand on one leg without and found that with agonizing pains in thigh and position. He lay flat on his belly and tried to he could not raise himself a centimetre. But that feat was accomplished. A time came when grow actually proud of his body, and to face also was growing back to normal. Only scalp did he remember the seamed, ruined face His mind grew more active. He sat down wall and the slate on his knees, and set to work He had capitulated, that was agreed. In reality, long before he had taken the decision. From the yes, even during those minutes when he and Julia telescreen told them what to do--he had grasped set himself up against the power of the Party. Police had watched him like a beetle under a no word spoken aloud, that they had not noticed, to infer. Even the speck of whitish dust on the They had played sound-tracks to him, shown him Julia and himself. Yes, even... He could not fight was in the right. It must be so; how could the external standard could you check its judgements? of learning to think as they thought. Only----! He began to write down the thoughts that came into Freedom Is Slavery! Then almost without a pause he wrote beneath it: Two And Two Make Five! But then there came a sort of check. His seemed unable to concentrate. He but for the moment he could not recall by consciously reasoning out what it must be: God Is Power! He accepted everything. The past was alterable. war with Eastasia. Oceania had always been at war were guilty of the crimes they were charged with. their guilt. It had never existed, he had invented but those were false memories, products of surrender, and everything else followed. It was backwards however hard you struggled, and then the current instead of opposing it. Nothing had thing happened in any case. He hardly knew why he Anything could be true. The so-called laws of nonsense. 'If I wished,' O'Brien had said, 'I Winston worked it out. 'If he thinks he floats see him do it, then the thing happens.' Suddenly, surface of water, the thought burst into his It is hallucination.' He pushed the thought under that somewhere or other, outside oneself, there But how could there be such a world? What our own minds? All happenings are in the mind. He had no difficulty in disposing of of succumbing to it. He realized, nevertheless, mind should develop a blind spot whenever process should be automatic, instinctive. He set to work to exercise himself in crimestop. says the earth is flat', 'the party says that ice seeing or not understanding the arguments that great powers of reasoning and improvisation. by such a statement as 'two and two make five' also a sort of athleticism of mind, an ability at and at the next to be unconscious of the crudest intelligence, and as difficult to attain. he wondered how soon they would shoot him. had said; but he knew that there was no conscious ten minutes hence, or ten years. They might they might send him to a labour-camp, they might It was perfectly possible that before he interrogation would be enacted all over again. at an expected moment. The tradition--the unspoken heard it said--was that they shot you from behind; as you walked down a corridor from cell to cell. expression; just as probably it was in the blissful reverie. He was walking down the that it was coming in another moment. reconciled. There were no more doubts, no more was healthy and strong. He walked easily, walking in sunlight. He was not any longer in the he was in the enormous sunlit passage, a to walk in the delirium induced by drugs. He was across the old rabbit-cropped pasture. He could the gentle sunshine on his face. At the edge of and somewhere beyond that was the stream where Suddenly he started up with a shock of horror. The sweat broke out on his backbone. 'Julia! Julia! Julia, my love! Julia!' For a moment he had had an overwhelming seemed to be not merely with him, but inside texture of his skin. In that moment he had loved together and free. Also he knew that somewhere He lay back on the bed and tried to How many years had he added to his In another moment he would hear the tramp of boots unpunished. They would know now, if they had not he had made with them. He obeyed the Party, but hidden a heretical mind beneath an appearance of in the mind he had surrendered, but he had He knew that he was in the wrong, but he understand that--O'Brien would understand it. It He would have to start all over again. It trying to familiarize himself with the new the cheekbones felt sharp, since last seeing himself in the glass he had not easy to preserve inscrutability when you did mere control of the features was not enough. For keep a secret you must also hide it from yourself. but until it is needed you must never let it that could be given a name. From now onwards he dream right. And all the while he must keep of matter which was part of himself and yet One day they would decide to shoot him. You could beforehand it should be possible to guess. It was seconds would be enough. In that time the world without a word uttered, without a check in his face--suddenly the camouflage would be down Hatred would fill him like an enormous roaring would go the bullet, too late, or too early. They could reclaim it. The heretical thought would be ever. They would have blown a hole in their own He shut his eyes. It was more difficult than question of degrading himself, mutilating himself. What was the most horrible, sickening thing of face (because of constantly seeing it on posters with its heavy black moustache and seemed to float into his mind of its own accord. There was a heavy tramp of boots in the passage. The steel door swung open with cell. Behind him were the waxen-faced 'Get up,' said O'Brien. 'Come here.' Winston stood opposite him. O'Brien took Winston's shoulders between his strong 'You have had thoughts of deceiving me,' he said. 'That was stupid. Stand up He paused, and went on in a gentler tone: 'You are improving. Intellectually there is very that you have failed to make progress. Tell me, am always able to detect a lie--tell me, what 'I hate him.' 'You hate him. Good. Then the time step. You must love Big Brother. It is not He released Winston with a 'Room One O One,' he said. At each stage of his imprisonment whereabouts he was in the windowless building. air pressure. The cells where the guards The room where he had been interrogated This place was many metres underground, It was bigger than most of the cells he had been noticed was that there were two small tables green baize. One was only a metre or two from He was strapped upright in a chair, so tightly A sort of pad gripped his head from behind, For a moment he was alone, then the 'You asked me once,' said O'Brien, 'what was in Room One O One. I told you knows it. The thing that is in Room One The door opened again. A guard came a box or basket of some kind. He set it position in which O'Brien was standing. 'The worst thing in the world,' said individual. It may be burial alive, or death or fifty other deaths. There are cases where it He had moved a little to one side, so that Winston was an oblong wire cage with a handle on top was something that looked like a fencing mask, three or four metres away from him, he could two compartments, and that there was some 'In your case,' said O'Brien, 'the worst A sort of premonitory tremor, a fear of he Winston as soon as he caught his first glimpse the mask-like attachment in front of it suddenly 'You can't do that!' he cried out in you couldn't! It's impossible.' 'Do you remember,' said O'Brien, 'the moment There was a wall of blackness in front of was something terrible on the other side of but you dared not drag it into the open. It was 'O'Brien!' said Winston, making an know this is not necessary. What O'Brien made no direct answer. When manner that he sometimes affected. He as though he were addressing an audience 'By itself,' he said, 'pain is not always will stand out against pain, even to the point unendurable--something that cannot be contemplated. falling from a height it is not cowardly to deep water it is not cowardly to fill your lungs be destroyed. It is the same with the rats. For pressure that you cannot withstand, even if you 'But what is it, what is it? How can O'Brien picked up the cage and brought it carefully on the baize cloth. Winston could the feeling of sitting in utter loneliness. a flat desert drenched with sunlight, across which Yet the cage with the rats was not two metres were at the age when a rat's muzzle grows blunt 'The rat,' said O'Brien, still addressing is carnivorous. You are aware of that. You the poor quarters of this town. In some streets a even for five minutes. The rats are a small time they will strip it to the people. They show astonishing intelligence There was an outburst of squeals from the away. The rats were fighting; they were trying heard also a deep groan of despair. That, O'Brien picked up the cage, and, as he did so, pressed something in it. There was a sharp tear himself loose from the chair. It was was held immovably. O'Brien moved the cage nearer. 'I have pressed the first lever,' said O'Brien. The mask will fit over your head, leaving no of the cage will slide up. These starving brutes seen a rat leap through the air? They will leap on they attack the eyes first. Sometimes they The cage was nearer; it was closing in. Winston to be occurring in the air above his head. But to think, even with a split second left--to think of the brutes struck his nostrils. There was and he almost lost consciousness. Everything a screaming animal. Yet he came out of was one and only one way to save himself. the BODY of another human being, The circle of the mask was large enough now to door was a couple of hand-spans from his face. was leaping up and down, the other, an old with his pink hands against the bars, and fiercely and the yellow teeth. Again the black panic took 'It was a common punishment in Imperial The mask was closing on his face. The wire only hope, a tiny fragment of hope. Too late, that in the whole world there was just ONE person that he could thrust between himself and the rats. 'Do it to Julia! Do it to Julia! Not to her. Tear her face off, strip her He was falling backwards, into enormous depths, the chair, but he had fallen through the through the earth, through the oceans, through between the stars--always away, away, away from the still standing at his side. There was still the the darkness that enveloped him he heard another clicked shut and not open. The Chestnut Tree was almost empty. A ray of table-tops. It was the lonely hour of fifteen. Winston sat in his usual corner, gazing glanced up at a vast face which eyed him from the caption said. Unbidden, a waiter came shaking into it a few drops from the cork. It was saccharine flavoured Winston was listening to the telescreen. but there was a possibility that at any from the Ministry of Peace. The news from the On and off he had been worrying about it all day. Oceania had always been at war with Eurasia) was bulletin had not mentioned any definite area, the Congo was a battlefield. Brazzaville and to look at the map to see what it meant. It was for the first time in the whole war, the A violent emotion, not fear exactly but flared up in him, then faded again. He stopped never fix his mind on any one subject for more glass and drained it at a gulp. As always, the The stuff was horrible. The cloves and saccharine, could not disguise the flat oily smell; and what dwelt with him night and day, was inextricably He never named them, even in his thoughts, and so They were something that he was half-aware clung to his nostrils. As the gin rose in him he since they released him, and had regained his old had thickened, the skin on nose and cheekbones deep a pink. A waiter, again unbidden, brought the with the page turned down at the chess problem. he brought the gin bottle and filled it. There was chessboard was always waiting for him, his corner full he had it to himself, since nobody cared even bothered to count his drinks. At irregular of paper which they said was the bill, but he had It would have made no difference if it had been money nowadays. He even had a job, a sinecure, The music from the telescreen stopped his head to listen. No bulletins from brief announcement from the Ministry it appeared, the Tenth Three-Year Plan's quota for He examined the chess problem and set involving a couple of knights. 'White to play portrait of Big Brother. White always mates, he without exception, it is so arranged. In the world has black ever won. Did it not of Good over Evil? The huge face gazed back at The voice from the telescreen paused and added in to stand by for an important announcement is news of the highest importance. Take The tinkling music struck up again. the bulletin from the front; instinct told him with little spurts of excitement, the thought out of his mind. He seemed actually to see the frontier and pouring down into the tip of been possible to outflank them in some way? out vividly in his mind. He picked up the white the proper spot. Even while he saw the black mysteriously assembled, suddenly planted in land and sea. He felt that by willing it he was it was necessary to act quickly. If they if they had airfields and submarine bases at the anything: defeat, breakdown, the redivision He drew a deep breath. An extraordinary exactly; rather it was successive layers which layer was undermost--struggled inside him. its place, but for the moment he could not settle thoughts wandered again. Almost unconsciously he Two plus two make five. 'They can't get inside you,' she had said. But here is FOR EVER,' O'Brien had said. That was from which you could never recover. Something was He had seen her; he had even spoken to her. instinctively that they now took almost no to meet her a second time if either of them had had met. It was in the Park, on a vile, biting all the grass seemed dead and there was not a pushed themselves up to be dismembered by the and watering eyes when he saw her not ten that she had changed in some ill-defined way. then he turned and followed her, not very nobody would take any interest in him. She did not as though trying to get rid of him, then seemed Presently they were in among a clump of ragged as protection from the wind. They halted. It was and fretted the occasional, dirty-looking There was no telescreen, but there must be hidden not matter, nothing mattered. They could have had wanted to. His flesh froze with horror at the the clasp of his arm; she did not even try to in her. Her face was sallower, and there was a forehead and temple; but that was not the change. in a surprising way, had stiffened. He remembered he had helped to drag a corpse out of some by the incredible weight of the thing, but which made it seem more like stone than to him that the texture of her skin would be He did not attempt to kiss her, nor did they she looked directly at him for the first full of contempt and dislike. He wondered out of the past or whether it was inspired also kept squeezing from his eyes. They sat down close together. He saw that she was about centimetres and deliberately crushed a twig. Her 'I betrayed you,' she said baldly. 'I betrayed you,' he said. She gave him another quick look of dislike. with something something you can't stand up &quot;Don't do it to me, do it to somebody else, do afterwards, that it was only a trick and that really mean it. But that isn't true. At You think there's no other way of saving yourself that way. You WANT it to happen to they suffer. All you care about is yourself.' 'And after that, you don't feel the same 'No,' he said, 'you don't feel the same.' There did not seem to be anything more to against their bodies. Almost at once it became it was too cold to keep still. She said something 'We must meet again,' he said. 'Yes,' she said, 'we must meet again.' He followed irresolutely for a little distance, She did not actually try to shake him off, but keeping abreast of her. He had made up his mind station, but suddenly this process of trailing He was overwhelmed by a desire not so much to get Tree Cafe, which had never seemed so attractive of his corner table, with the newspaper and the it would be warm in there. The next he allowed himself to become separated from half-hearted attempt to catch up, then slowed direction. When he had gone fifty metres but already he could not distinguish her. Any been hers. Perhaps her thickened, stiffened 'At the time when it happens,' she had said, 'you said it, he had wished it. He had wished that Something changed in the music that trickled a yellow note, came into it. And perhaps it was only a memory taking on the 'Under the spreading chestnut tree The tears welled up in his eyes. A was empty and came back with the gin bottle. stuff grew not less but more horrible with the element he swam in. It was his life, his sank him into stupor every night, and gin that before eleven hundred, with gummed-up eyelids and it would have been impossible even to rise bottle and teacup placed beside the bed overnight. the bottle handy, listening to the telescreen. in the Chestnut Tree. No one cared what no telescreen admonished him. Occasionally, forgotten-looking office in the Ministry of Truth He had been appointed to a sub-committee of a the innumerable committees dealing with minor the Eleventh Edition of the Newspeak Dictionary. an Interim Report, but what it was that they were was something to do with the question of whether outside. There were four others on the committee, were days when they assembled and then promptly that there was not really anything to be done. But their work almost eagerly, making a tremendous long memoranda which were never finished--when arguing about grew extraordinarily involved and enormous digressions, quarrels--threats, even, to life would go out of them and they would sit extinct eyes, like ghosts fading at cock-crow. raised his head again. The bulletin! But He had the map of Africa behind his eyelids. a black arrow tearing vertically southward, across the tail of the first. As though for face in the portrait. Was it conceivable His interest flagged again. He drank another and made a tentative move. Check. But it Uncalled, a memory floated into his mind. He saw bed, and himself, a boy of nine or ten, and laughing excitedly. His mother was It must have been about a month before she when the nagging hunger in his belly was forgotten revived. He remembered the day well, a pelting, window-pane and the light indoors was too dull to dark, cramped bedroom became unbearable. Winston fretted about the room pulling everything out neighbours banged on the wall, while the younger said, 'Now be good, and I'll buy you a toy. had gone out in the rain, to a little general shop back with a cardboard box containing an outfit of smell of the damp cardboard. It was a miserable dice were so ill-cut that they would hardly lie on and without interest. But then his mother lit a play. Soon he was wildly excited and shouting with up the ladders and then came slithering down the played eight games, winning four each. His tiny was about, had sat propped up against a bolster, whole afternoon they had all been happy He pushed the picture out of his mind. It was a occasionally. They did not matter so long things had happened, others had not happened. He white knight again. Almost in the same instant had started as though a pin had run into him. was the bulletin! Victory! It always meant victory electric drill ran through the cafe. Even the The trumpet-call had let loose an enormous was gabbling from the telescreen, but even as cheering from outside. The news had run round the what was issuing from the telescreen to realize a vast seaborne armada had secretly assembled a tearing across the tail of the black. Fragments the din: 'Vast strategic manoeuvre--perfect prisoners--complete demoralization--control of the distance of its end--victory--greatest victory Under the table Winston's feet made convulsive but in his mind he was running, swiftly running, deaf. He looked up again at the portrait of Big The rock against which the hordes of Asia dashed ago--yes, only ten minutes--there had still been the news from the front would be of victory army that had perished! Much had changed in him but the final, indispensable, healing change The voice from the telescreen was still booty and slaughter, but the shouting waiters were turning back to their work. One of sitting in a blissful dream, paid no attention or cheering any longer. He was back in the his soul white as snow. He was in the implicating everybody. He was walking down the in sunlight, and an armed guard at his back. The He gazed up at the enormous face. Forty of smile was hidden beneath the dark moustache. self-willed exile from the loving breast! sides of his nose. But it was all the struggle was finished. He had won the Appendix. The Principles of Newspeak. Newspeak was the official language of Oceania and Ingsoc, or English Socialism. In the year nineteen Newspeak as his sole means of communication, in 'The Times' were written in it, but this was a specialist. It was expected that Newspeak would English, as we should call it) by about the year all Party members tending to use Newspeak words their everyday speech. The version in use in and Tenth Editions of the Newspeak Dictionary, was words and archaic formations which were due to be version, as embodied in the Eleventh Edition The purpose of Newspeak was not only to provide a habits proper to the devotees of Ingsoc, but It was intended that when Newspeak had been a heretical thought--that is, a thought diverging unthinkable, at least so far as thought is constructed as to give exact and often very subtle could properly wish to express, while excluding of arriving at them by indirect methods. This but chiefly by eliminating undesirable remained of unorthodox meanings, and so whatever. To give a single example. The but it could only be used in such statements is free from weeds'. It could not be used in its free' since political and intellectual freedom therefore of necessity nameless. Quite apart from reduction of vocabulary was regarded as an end in was allowed to survive. Newspeak was designed not and this purpose was indirectly assisted by Newspeak was founded on the English language as even when not containing newly-created words, of our own day. Newspeak words were divided into the B vocabulary (also called compound words), discuss each class separately, but the grammatical in the section devoted to the A vocabulary, since The A Vocabulary. The A vocabulary consisted of the words needed things as eating, drinking, working, putting riding in vehicles, gardening, cooking, and the that we already possess words like hit, run, dog, the present-day English vocabulary their number far more rigidly defined. All ambiguities and So far as it could be achieved, a Newspeak sound expressing one clearly understood concept. vocabulary for literary purposes or for political to express simple, purposive thoughts, usually The grammar of Newspeak had two outstanding complete interchangeability between different principle this applied even to very abstract words noun, adjective, or adverb. Between the verb and there was never any variation, this rule of itself The word 'thought', for example, did not exist which did duty for both noun and verb. No in some cases it was the original noun that was Even where a noun and verb of kindred meaning of them was frequently suppressed. There was, for sufficiently covered by the noun-verb knife. 'ful' to the noun-verb, and adverbs by adding and 'speedwise' meant 'quickly'. Certain of our black, soft, were retained, but their total number since almost any adjectival meaning could be None of the now-existing adverbs was retained, the 'wise' termination was invariable. The word In addition, any word--this again applied in be negatived by adding the affix 'un', or or, for still greater emphasis, 'doubleplus'. while 'pluscold' and 'doublepluscold' meant, cold'. It was also possible, as in present-day by prepositional affixes such as 'Ante', 'Post', possible to bring about an enormous diminution of there was no need for such a word as 'bad', since better--expressed by 'ungood'. All that words formed a natural pair of opposites, was for example, could be replaced by 'unlight', or The second distinguishing mark of Newspeak exceptions which are mentioned below all in all verbs the preterite and the past participle 'steal' was 'stealed', the preterite of 'think' all such forms as swam, gave, brought, spoke, made by adding 's' or 'es' as the case might be. 'oxes', 'lifes'. Comparison of adjectives was 'gooder', 'goodest'), irregular forms and the The only classes of words that were still the relatives, the demonstrative adjectives, and ancient usage, except that 'whom' had been 'should' tenses had been dropped, all their There were also certain irregularities in rapid and easy speech. A word which was difficult was held to be ipso facto a bad word; extra letters were inserted into a word or an made itself felt chiefly in connexion with was attached to ease of pronunciation The B Vocabulary. deliberately constructed for political purposes: case a political implication, but were intended person using them. Without a full understanding of these words correctly. In some cases they could be from the A vocabulary, but this usually demanded of certain overtones. The B words were a sort of ideas into a few syllables, and at the same time The B words were in all cases compound were of course to be found in the 'A' vocabulary, had no special ideological colour.) They consisted welded together in an easily pronounceable form. and inflected according to the ordinary rules. meaning, very roughly, 'orthodoxy', or, 'to think in an orthodox manner'. This inflected and past participle, 'goodthinked'; adjective, 'goodthinkful'; adverb, The B words were not constructed on any made up could be any parts of speech, and could be made them easy to pronounce while indicating (thoughtcrime), for instance, the 'think' came it came first, and in the latter word 'police' great difficulty in securing euphony, irregular than in the 'A' vocabulary. For example, the and 'miniluv' were, respectively, 'minitruthful', 'trueful', 'paxful', and 'loveful' were however, all B words could inflect, and Some of the B words had highly subtilized who had not mastered the language such a typical sentence from a 'Times' leading The shortest rendering that one could make of were formed before the Revolution cannot principles of English Socialism.' But this is in order to grasp the full meaning of the Newspeak clear idea of what is meant by INGSOC. And in Ingsoc could appreciate the full force of the word acceptance difficult to imagine today; or of the with the idea of wickedness and decadence. But of which 'oldthink' was one, was not so much to necessarily few in number, had had their meanings whole batteries of words which, as they were term, could now be scrapped and forgotten. The Newspeak Dictionary was not to invent new words, meant: to make sure, that is to say, what ranges As we have already seen in the case of the word meaning were sometimes retained for the sake meanings purged out of them. Countless other internationalism, democracy, science, and religion covered them, and, in covering them, abolished concepts of liberty and equality, for instance, while all words grouping themselves round the contained in the single word 'oldthink'. Greater required in a Party member was an outlook similar knowing much else, that all nations other than to know that these gods were called Baal, Osiris, he knew about them the better for his orthodoxy. he knew, therefore, that all gods with other somewhat the same way, the party member knew what vague, generalized terms he knew what kinds of for example, was entirely regulated by the two and 'goodsex' (chastity). SEXCRIME covered all adultery, homosexuality, and other perversions, its own sake. There was no need to enumerate them and, in principle, all punishable by death. In and technical words, it might be necessary to give but the ordinary citizen had no need of them. He normal intercourse between man and wife, for the physical pleasure on the part of the woman: all possible to follow a heretical thought further that point the necessary words were nonexistent. neutral. A great many were euphemisms. (forced-labour camp) or 'minipax' (Ministry of the exact opposite of what they appeared to mean. and contemptuous understanding of the real nature meaning the rubbishy entertainment and spurious Other words, again, were ambivalent, having the 'bad' when applied to its enemies. But in addition sight appeared to be mere abbreviations and from their meaning, but from their structure. had or might have political significance of any of every organization, or body of people, or public building, was invariably cut down easily pronounced word with the smallest number derivation. In the Ministry of Truth, for example, worked, was called Recdep, the Fiction Department was called Teledep, and so on. This was not done the early decades of the twentieth century, the characteristic features of political language; abbreviations of this kind was most marked organizations. Examples were such words as Nazi, beginning the practice had been adopted as it with a conscious purpose. It was perceived that in altered its meaning, by cutting out most of the The words Communist International, for instance, brotherhood, red flags, barricades, Karl Marx, on the other hand, suggests merely a tightly-knit It refers to something almost as easily as a chair or a table. 'Comintern' is a word that whereas 'Communist International' is a phrase momentarily. In the same way, the associations and more controllable than those called up by for the habit of abbreviating whenever possible, taken to make every word easily pronounceable. consideration other than exactitude of sacrificed to it when it seemed necessary. And for political purposes, was short clipped words rapidly and which roused the minimum of echoes in even gained in force from the fact that nearly all these words--goodthink, minipax, prolefeed, and countless others--were words of two or three between the first syllable and the last. The use at once staccato and monotonous. And this was make speech, and especially speech on any subject independent of consciousness. For the purposes sometimes necessary, to reflect before speaking, or ethical judgement should be able to spray forth gun spraying forth bullets. His training fitted foolproof instrument, and the texture of the ugliness which was in accord with the spirit So did the fact of having very few words to vocabulary was tiny, and new ways of reducing it differed from most all other languages in that its year. Each reduction was a gain, since the smaller take thought. Ultimately it was hoped to make involving the higher brain centres at all. This 'duckspeak', meaning 'to quack like a duck'. 'duckspeak' was ambivalent in meaning. Provided orthodox ones, it implied nothing but praise, and the Party as a 'doubleplusgood duckspeaker' The C Vocabulary. and consisted entirely of scientific and technical today, and were constructed from the same roots, rigidly and strip them of undesirable meanings. words in the other two vocabularies. Very few of speech or in political speech. Any scientific needed in the list devoted to his own speciality, words occurring in the other lists. Only a very no vocabulary expressing the function of Science irrespective of its particular branches. any meaning that it could possibly bear being From the foregoing account it will be seen that above a very low level, was well-nigh impossible. a very crude kind, a species of blasphemy. It 'Big Brother is ungood'. But this statement, which absurdity, could not have been sustained by were not available. Ideas inimical to Ingsoc could and could only be named in very broad terms which heresies without defining them in doing so. One purposes by illegitimately translating some 'all mans are equal' was a possible Newspeak 'all men are redhaired' is a possible Oldspeak but it expressed a palpable untruth -- that or strength. The concept of political equality had accordingly been purged out of the word was still the normal means of communication, Newspeak words one might remember their original person well grounded in doublethink to avoid doing possibility of such a lapse would have vanished. language would no more know that 'equal' had once or that 'free' had once meant 'intellectually never heard of chess would be aware of the 'rook'. There would be many crimes and errors simply because they were nameless and therefore with the passage of time the distinguishing and more pronounced--its words growing fewer and the chance of putting them to When Oldspeak had been once and for all would have been severed. History had already been past survived here and there, imperfectly knowledge of Oldspeak it was possible to even if they chanced to survive, would be impossible to translate any passage of Oldspeak technical process or some very simple everyday would be the Newspeak expression) in tendency. before approximately 1960 could be translated as be subjected to ideological translation as language. Take for example the well-known We hold these truths to be self-evident, that by their creator with certain inalienable and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these deriving their powers from the consent of the becomes destructive of those ends, it is the and to institute new government... to render this into Newspeak while keeping to the to doing so would be to swallow the whole A full translation could only be an ideological changed into a panegyric on absolute government. indeed, already being transformed in this way. to preserve the memory of certain historical achievements into line with the philosophy of Milton, Swift, Byron, Dickens, and some others when the task had been completed, their original literature of the past, would be destroyed. These and it was not expected that they would be of the twenty-first century. There were literature--indispensable technical manuals, same way. It was chiefly in order to allow that the final adoption of Newspeak had been Thank you for listening. If you like our recordings consider liking so you don't miss any more audiobooks.