Welcome to my incredible custom escape room with nine color-coded chambers with content suggested entirely by my comment section. Creators and fans will be taking on these rooms to see who can make it through the fastest and incredible test of skill and wit. I don't know what's happening. Yeah, those are lasers. Okay. Okay. This is not how- No, no, no! UHHH! [Laughter] [Laughter] They all died. They all died. Two problems though. Two problems though. One, my comment section is insane and some of these rooms are gonna be pretty ridiculous. And number two, uh, none of these rooms have anything in them yet. And, uh, that feels like an important step. like an important step. Which is why today I asked you on my community tab to give me some puzzles or traps to add to my escape room. You guys are always suggesting the absolute worst things you can possibly imagine for my videos. And I appreciate that about you. And I appreciate that about you. I'll be adding your suggestions as I'll be adding your suggestions as puzzles for two groups of people to solve. One is a group of my creator friends and One is a group of my creator friends and the other is a massive swarm of random players with zero coordination. players with zero coordination. We'll be finding out who can solve the rooms fastest between the two groups. So, all that being said, who's first? I think a spike wall that closes in on you might be cool. Definitely. They just walk through this wall- Oh, they just, uh, oh, yep, fine. Oh, they just, uh, oh, yep, fine. They just walk through this door into They just walk through this door into this first room and then the walls start to close in on you. That would be sick! That would be sick! Um, but I don't know how to do that. [Laughter] [Laughter] So I hopped in a car with my plug-in developer friend, Laff, to figure out how we can make this happen. Yay, cutting time! [Laughter] [Laughter] Whoa! Whoa! [Laughter] [Laughter] Whoa! Whoa! [Laughter] [Laughter] Oh, there we go. Yeah. Oh, there we go, yeah. Oh, there we go. Yeah. Now we're making Now we're making something called &quot;Prograft&quot;. Let's see if this is gonna work. Oh, nope! Oh, nope! Oh! Oh! Alright, we're starting, we're getting there, we're getting there. We're getting there. This is definitely the right direction. the right direction. We have a gap. This is the open ever gap. We have a gap. Ooh! Ooh! You know that the tiny bit is called a &quot;frustum&quot;? A what? A what? A what? [Laughter] It's called a &quot;frustum&quot;. [Laughter] Alright, theoretically. Nice. They took a vacation. They took a vacation. Oh, they do- [Laughter] They don't belong there. Is it really not comfortable with the &quot;frustum&quot; thing? comfortable with the frustum thickness? It just does not wanna- It doesn't wanna do it. It doesn't wanna do it. It doesn't wanna do it. Pointed dripstone frustum. Point to &quot;drift&quot; and &quot;frustum&quot;. Uh, okay. Yeah, you know, the &quot;thickness equals frustum&quot; sentence definitely was messing with me too, so I- [Laughter] [Laughter] Get it? Three, two, one. Three, two, one. Oh, no. Oh, no. The &quot;frustum&quot; is still too strong. I'm just gonna Google &quot;script frustum&quot;. 3:28 AM Alright the frustum was not too strong Whoa, whoa, that's sick. Whoa. Oh all your spikes are up there I believe in you this is why I have you do all the hard work and not meeee yay! Ooooh! Oh, that's so scary bro! Right? That's OHHH! Also, not to mention... Oh. Oh. WOWW!! Alright. I'm in survival now take Take me! Alright, okay, okay These spikes are awfully comfortable. Oh, oh my gosh, it's so menacing Oh my god, if I'm running and I'm like able to just be oh my gosh Sneak Bye! Oh no! I didn't hit it! We're stuck in here no we got this we got this And after all that along with a complete rewrite of the door system, we've got this The door goes down the walls are in oh my gosh, that's so menacing I've done it before and I'll do it again. Yes. I did it. Yes. Whoo yeah, so this is this is crazy and these walls just Immediately kill you these walls are completely created with display entities and some beautiful plug-in magic. This thing is awesome I'm so excited about this and I think this room is going to be really funny to watch all my friends struggle through and also The group of players struggle through but let's watch my friends struggle through it first In this escape room you will be going through nine different rooms different challenges and each room has a different solution It's gonna be a blast. I'm very excited to see your reactions to this It's very it's very crazy as is an Knarfy video This sounds ominous. That being said, let's go to room one. - Oh. - Yes, this is ominous. - Oh my gosh. - Oh, guys, guys, guys, guys. - No! (laughing) - They all died. - Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, press the button. Get it. - Oh no. (laughing) - I pressed it! Oh Cam got through! But now the button is-- So so I have a problem. I have a problem for you guys. You do need to press the button It's kind of a very important thing. So the walls are being reset again Here they come. Press the button press the button! Yeeeahhhh!! We did it! A secret bookcase door except each different book pulled out does something different for example killing you screaming sub to Knarfy Rick rolling you and only one reveals the exit. All right. I took this one and ran with it a little bit Here's what we're working with as you can see. We've got a massive library. It's two stories and there's a lot of books It's a little claustrophobic, but it's fine The goal here is to find some chiseled bookshelves which conveniently there's one right here If I just right-click this one of like six different things will happen and one of those six things is absolutely nothing If I do this. Hey, that's the good ending because oh, yeah. Yeah, it also just kills you. That one summons lightning That one. Oh that one launches you back. That one also still launches you subscribe yeah, and of course don't look too closely to these bookshelves because Jump scare. So this is great. This is great. I also need to like hold on moments later Perfect those books look a little bit suspicious don't they? Yes They sure do and that is gonna lead them on a wild goose chase to try to find what they need to find because in actuality It doesn't really have anything to do with these regular bookcases at all. You'll see here in this corner We've got a single spruce block and if I walk on this you'll see find the double stacked chiseled shelves And if we walk around a little bit There's only one place in this entire area where the double stacked chiseled shelves exist and that place only you guys will know this Something important is close is right here You can see two double stacked bookshelves here And if I right-click this you found the right place find a way on top of these shelves and then the only way to get On top of those shelves is this one ladder which is right here And then you gotta run across here a little bit you got bob and weave and then there's the button So this room is just a lot and I didn't want to Rickroll people, but it's kind of cool It's kind of a neat concept of like different bookshelves doing different things and then just Hmm those bookshelves look a bit suspicious don't they? No, they don't really Oh, oh there's ladders there's No wait is that a suspicious bookshelf? Ow, ow, ow, ow Crag looked too deep into a bookshelf. Oh gosh I don't know what's happening I'm scared Subscribe Oh wait what's that one say? Oh, oh The bookshelves definitely hold secrets There Jump scare? That wasn't really much of a jump scare Keep an eye on things that might show up in the action bar Something important is close Something important is close Guys I have a text that says find the double stacked chiseled shelves I think Cam knows the solution... so... Cam, how did you get up there? Wait, Legundo, do you see that way? This is where I've been Something important is close Oh, I found the right place Find a way on top of these shelves Okay, we need to get on top of there Punch me Um, there was a ladder Ooh, ooh I'm actually kind of interested to see if that works Punch me PVP's off, I forgot about that Oh no, okay Cam got it, cam got it, cam got it Ah, subscribe, well that's convenient because the next comment is a room where you're forced to subscribe to Knarfy in order to open the door I should have breathed, that was-- that was all one breath That's right, a room where you're forced to subscribe to me And uh, uh, I did it Watch this, let's say you're wrong And you're not subscribed to me And you go through this door Well, have I got something cool for you You get kicked from the server If you also go back in the footage a little bit there You'll see that it says that Knarfy wasn't subscribed And that's not okay, that's mean They'll just do that for every single player But if you say yes Just walk on through here Ahhhhhh Cool painting 2 and hey cool thanks And beep and um, yep, you better be subscribed Are they subscribed? We're gonna find out if my friends are subscribed This is the ultimate test of friendship Uh, they better not fail this Are you subscribed yet? Oh no, oh no Oh, there goes Crag, well Ah, subscribe Ahh Yes I guess we'll go through this door Cool painting, cool painting Cool painting Wait what? Hey cool thanks Wait, wait, wait, is it a reference to Knarfy and Knarfy Too? Oh, I am subscribed With notifications bell The slowest room possible with 20 bells Constantly going off and stal playing the entire time Followed up with another comment Every music disc playing at once While you go through soul sand and cobwebs To get to the next room So here's a problem I couldn't figure out how to get the music playing Over and over and over again Because it just got really, it just got really Let me just show you what that does I'm just gonna put stal into here and um Yeah uhh... It doesn't-- It doesn't quite work the way I thought it would it's kinda gross. And I can't get-- You can't get rid of it. It just plays. It just plays forever. Okay. Just gonna stop the sounds there That was rough. But what I can do is put a command block Heh, heh, a command block, a pair of command blocks up here that, uh, just play bell sound effects over and over. And as you can see, we're in a room with cobwebs and soul sand and two options. First of all, is this the button? Let me just, uh, make my way over here real quick. Uh, oh gosh, this sound is just so ear piercing. I, ugh. I am in pain! I am in pain! Is this the button? Let's find out! Nope! Try the other one. Heh, so then if they go over there, they're gonna have to go alllllll the way back. But for me, since I made this- escape room I can just uh I'll just fly and then the other button opens the door and I my ears are in so much pain I'm just gonna just float over here huh thank goodness it only plays in this room that would be so rough if it just continued forever I'm really curious if people are gonna go to this button first or go to this one well I guess we're gonna find out I'm guessing it's on the right room number four yeah oh no well Well I'm gonna go home Wait how are you moving so quickly Cap? Ummmm... That's a great question I'm just holding W 45 degree strafing! Oh wait I just realized If you jump while sprinting you go a little bit quicker Not in the cobwebs! I think you're if you're crouching it goes slower do we have to press them both at the same time? I'm fast. Oh. Nope it was this one! it was just the one that Legundo chose. Yeah. Go go go go! Run through the cobwebs! Go go go quickly! Quickly! Go go go go! You can do it! You can make it! Go go go go! I believe in you! GO GO GO GO GO GO! I'm running as fast as I can! A room that looks innocent and gives a free clue is actually filled with lasers so it's almost impossible to move but when you get to the end the clue is completely useless ah yes a room full of lasers good classic escape room things let me just show you what happens if I step on one of these yep that makes sense these lasers are deadly and they're everywhere so that's really cool I didn't really want to make them invisible because that's that's horrible but there is a hint in here which I need to actually lead players to a few moments later hint this way I like this don't forget the hint hints are awesome you should totally get this one over here and then the arrow is just it's just both ways someday you'll get to the hint it'll be the best day ever this isn't the corner with the hint smh it's over there hint this way oh no not that way okay over here don't forget the hint okay all right yep okay it's awesome you should get this one yeah you can't go that way almost there oh my gosh it's the hint guys it's the hint don't touch the lasers they hurt yeah that's completely useless got him great so so how do you get out of here huh what do you oh I am a cape how do you get out of here yeah you just you just run around a little bit and until you just die and then you make it somehow no no no no no the button is right here yep they'll be searching the entire thing for the hint and they will not realize that the button was right next to them all along it's a great time it's so much fun just don't hit any walls oh I forgot I could sneak through those and here we are we made it surely this isn't rage-inducing right this way that's not that way it's this way okay you know what they say is keep going right until you make it to the exit Legundo's gonna make it! Legundo's gonna make it! I'm gonna I'm gonna make them get here you can't see it from back oh thanks Thanks Knarfy Anytime! I mean I found the door we need to get around Ope. Bye Nature. how do you open the door what would I do as a as a creator that is in this space EXPLOSIONS! What exactly what I do to open this door you'd put a button in the really stupid place yes you didnt! Everybody check your inventory! Yes I would. I know what he did. Oh no I didn't-- that that would have been smart too but no no that's not no no Knarfy I'm committing I won't force you to go through that again That is not where it is. You can't stop me Is it just at the beginning? Oh my god is it? Why is there a K in the sky? What? Where Crag? Crag, Where? Go to the beginning! They're discovering things Wait a minute if I can't click that K that means I'm back yeah what you think of that button Legundo? what do you think it was a very buttony I like it Hold on let me see the K real quick I'm... I'm just... I'm kindof astounded at the moment. Oh got it! Yeahhh!!! I just saw it! A sheep named Dave with a moral decision set upon its life. Ah yes, welcome to the most beautiful museum ever created with some of the most prestigious artworks like Skull on Fire and Apple and Melon or Spieder or Whatever this one is here. We have Dave in his nice red glass prison what Dave did to deserve this I have no idea, but Dave is here with a moral decision on his life. Let's go ahead and press this button here This is Dave. Dave has committed unspeakable crimes against humanity You will now choose his fate if you choose to release Dave you'll be unleashing Unknowable chaos upon the entire world if you choose not to release Dave you will be hunted down by his relentless Dave gremlins Choose wisely well I'm gonna be wise and release Dave Because that feels like a good idea right right you've chosen to release Dave what crimes we commit now Enjoy the rest of the escape room Dave what are you gonna? Dave Dave what are you gonna? Do huh? What do you I don't want to talk to this guy anymore What happens if you choose not to release Dave well? I'm not sure but this is sure to be a wild scenario for my friends to play into we'll find out what happens Dave! Here's a button. Hello, Dave. Oh. This is Dave. Dave has committed an unspeakable crime. You did not release Dave. Find the button to escape. I didn't have time to read. I'm just gonna walk out of here. I'm just, I'm not gonna worry about this. I didn't even get time to read the prompt. Press every button you can. Hey, Knarfy, how's your day? You know, that's pretty good, actually. I'm fine, I'm fine. I'm a good time, you know what I mean? Smart Cap. Hey! Hey, Dave! You've chosen to release Dave. What crimes will he commit now? Dave is free. Bring Dave. You take Dave. (laughing) Come on, bring Dave. Dave's coming with us. Oh, here's one. Use the new wind charges to make fans that push the character around, but you need to use the fans to jump far enough to make the parkour. Oh yeah, this one's cool. I went ahead and went through the blocks and saw which one looks most like a fan. And I think I settled on this one, the waxed chiseled copper, which is a quite nice block in the fact that it kind of has like a fan design on the side, but it's also so specific that I probably won't use it anywhere else in this build. So now when a player is in adventure mode, as you can see, I'm in creative mode and it doesn't work, we can do some, whoa, we can do some crazy stuff. Essentially what this does is it senses if you're right next to it and then launches you away with wind charges. So it's not perfect, but I think that imperfection makes it more chaotic. So I'm here for it. I just go ahead and hop up here. You'll also see that it pushes players down. Oh my gosh. You can also manage to get yourself stuck in like an infinite loop. Oh geez, oh my gosh. Oh, you may also have noticed this dangerous cube. Oh geez, oh geez. Oh my gosh. Oh, it's so excessive. Oh my gosh. Oh, oh yeah. Needless to say, this is an excellent feature. Now that I have this, I can actually put together a little bit of a parkour that utilizes these and lets them launch players around everywhere. It's pretty cool. All right, give me a second and I'll put something together. Six and a half hours and done. That definitely didn't take me multiple hours to complete. I don't know what you're talking about. So as you can see, I utilized these fans to create a parkour course out of blue wool. And also these blocks, glazed terracotta, I think that's what they're called. We can go up and around and I failed again. We can go up and up and up and up. I will complete this course. I will do it. Yeet. And then you go down here and you launch. Whoa. Set the spawn point here. Launch up and around. Okay, yep. And then this gets difficult. If you so much as look too close at the fan, it launches you away. I'm a master. I'm a master. I'm incredible at this. It's almost like I've done this like 50 times before this as I was trying to test it and make sure it worked. And then you just fall here. Boom, spawn point. And then this is difficult. Like this is surprisingly, that was way easier than I thought it was gonna be. Oh, geez. Oh no. Oh, come on. Yes, I did it. And then, I failed. You have to like launch yourself. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. I think I have to like, oh, oh, oh, oh. One of the like tips here is if I like launch myself via this one and then fall far enough. How, I'm kidding. It's not a tip. Don't, don't listen to me. I swear it's possible. I swear I've done it before. I swear I've done it multiple times before. Come on, no. This is the worst. This is the worst. And I coded this. I made this myself. I designed this myself. And this is the worst. This is painful. Launch. Oh, oh, I got it. Now I can't screw this up because I have to do another one. Oh, I nailed it. Thank goodness. Button hit. And now I jump up here and now I can leave. Finally. But you can't see what's in the next room yet because I need to show you one thing. You can also entirely bypass most of this by just going this way. So I probably could have thought that through. Hopefully they don't figure that out. We kind of need those for the future. Actually, I think I'm gonna fix it. What follows is a brief construction montage. We hope you enjoyed this brief construction montage. There we go. Now you shouldn't, oh. Now you shouldn't be able to get past this and like escape this. There's a bunch of like barrier blocks here. It should be pretty easy to just not get down here. Yeah, it doesn't, you can't do it. Hopefully that fixes it. But if people do bypass it, then like whatever, you know, it's fine. They figured out how to escape. Let's see if they can. No Dave come on Oh gosh. Don't leave me! I need you Dave! I need you! For the record, Dave is not affected by fans, so he would probably just fall into the-- Alright Dave. We're gonna take you home in spirit At least he'll be free from this room. Cam's going Cam's going look at him go look at him go Come on Dave! Come on Dave! You got this! You got this Dave! Wait if you trigger the fans with Dave on it it might actually launch him It's kinda... It's kinda moving him! He's kinda moving! This is the first time I'm seeing this with multiple people all going at the same time. Oh Here's the door. Oh, we're going the wrong way. Oh my gosh. I just figured out how to do this. Ten seconds later. Ah! What did I just do? Oh my gosh. What is happening, Crag? (laughing) Welcome back to breaking Knarfy's stuff with my dumb ideas. No! You can make it. Oh, hi, Dave. How you doin? AH! I did it! Well done. Ooh, almost. like you're joining in halfway through welcome to the escape room on room number seven (laughing) - We can do it. You guys got this. (all talking at once) - I feel like Legs is the first one to make it and like that was it. Where are we supposed to go from here? There's a couple ways you can go from there the most fun way is to go all the way over here all right? Oh my gosh, you did a first try. Yep. You're welcome. I just I just Shoved it in your face. Alright. You see the button? yeah, yep. Yeah, Crag did it There we go! Yeah lets go! Crag has completed the room! Okay, hear me out. It's your casual room with some Neo jumps with lava on the floor, but the twist is that it's actually impossible, because barriers block the jump from being completed. So the real way to escape is a hidden shulker box in the top left or right corner with a water bucket, because the real way to complete it would be to place the water down to get rid of the lava and reveal the exit. Was under your nose the whole time. Smiley face. Oh yeah, time for more parkour. They'll start by jumping over here and then trying to just complete these Neo jumps. I did that first try. Oh my gosh. But there's a second one, so if they completed the first one, it's gonna be a challenge to complete the second one. Yeah, that was a challenge. I tried, okay. Boing. Oh no. I'm about to relive my first- oh no. Let's say I got over here completely legitimately, alright? Don't question it. Check this out. Press the button to open the door. There is definitely no catch. And then if they jump, there's no way to make that. In fact, there's also just barriers to just completely obstructing this. You cannot get to this button no matter what you do. And I'm just gonna make it even worse. Yep, alright, cool, yep. So how do you complete it? Well, if you look over my left shoulder there, uh, you can see a thing. Is that my left shoulder? That's my right shoulder. If you look over my shoulder, in here, we have a shulker box with a water bucket that can be placed on deep slate tiles. But what they don't know is that this is actually a stack of 64 buckets. Yep, yep, 64 buckets. There goes half of them. This can be placed on deep slate tiles and obsidian, which means I can just place this on the wall here and that will create some obsidian. I can't get rid of it though, because adventure mode doesn't let you pick up water and buckets. So this is just useless now. But I can just start running through here and wading through the water because that's so much fun. The sounds are pretty satisfying though, I'm not gonna lie. The sounds are pretty darn awesome out here. And then if I manage to get to this corner, we find a button, which is the way that you can unlock the door. And that's also why there's a single deep slate tile right there, so I can place water and get out that way. Ta-da! Now I've completely ruined this room. Um, but let's see if the guys can complete this. What could possibly go wrong? Not Neos! Knarfy why are you like this? (everyone talking at once) Nevermind. What am I supposed to do? (laughing) I don't...under... I see I have joined pain and suffering. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. It's literally you just need to be able to do side jumps. Let's loosely... I think I just saw it. What are you seeing? What are you seeing? Nope, that's not it. That's not it. Oh, what a warm, what a warm hot tub. Oh, I know what he's doing. That would be really cool if that was the solution, but... I'm not that smart. This is based on comments. Come on, Knarfy be smart. So they didn't come up with that. We wanna be smart. Please let us be smart. Oh, I've...I think I've seen it. I think I've just seen it. You see it? You see it? You see it? An R? Why is there an R? (laughing) Oh, wait, no! I trapped myself underneath! There you go. Yeah, yeah, there you go. I wanna know what that button does. Oh, no. (laughing) where is the button in this room, huh? Literally all it says is there's definitely no-- This button definitely doesn't have a catch to it at all. I don't believe that, because it's you. Can you place it up there? Okay. (laughing) Of course he did that. Of course he did that. There is definitely no cat. I'm just gonna go take a good ol' hot swim. There's an R here. Oh. What is the R supposed to mean? It spells &quot;Knarfy&quot; Yeah, that's one. Oh, yeah. I can tell you right now that is not correct. Yeah, no, because I saw a U in the library room. A U, K, and R is what I've seen so far. I'm very much enjoying this right now. This is very funny. This is just very... It's over there. It's over... It's just very funny. Hey, Knarfy, look! Arrr! (laughing) So, remember the laser room? Yeah. I used a very similar button philosophy. I definitely remember that room. It's on the wall. It's just on the wall somewhere. We just need to find it. The only problem is if we break it. (laughing) Hey, he got it! He got it! He jumped to it! He jumped to it! It was in the corner above the lava. Oh! Of course it was. A final room which requires a password, combined letters and numbers from the previous rooms. Let's hope whoever passed through remembers it. Oh yeah, here we go. The final room. This, um, definitely didn't take me multiple hours. Let's read the instructions. The final room. Everything you have done has led up to this room. Every previous room has a specific letter or number hidden somewhere. Your task is to locate those characters and press the correct buttons via the panels in this room. Submit the correct code and you can reach freedom. I'll get you started. This room's letter is F. So I'll just head on up here and just boop. And we've got the letter F up on the board. The way this room works is that in each previous room there's a letter hidden somewhere. I won't show you where they all are, we'll have to figure that out as they go through it. But once they find the letter, each room's letter corresponds to a panel here in the final room. If you press one of the buttons, that will change on the board up here. Submit the incorrect answer and it'll just tell you that's the incorrect combination. But if you submit the correct answer, you'll be able to escape. But I'm not gonna show you that because we have to actually have the people go through the room for that. And yes, this does also mean that they have to go through every previous room to find the combination. Including the spiderweb room, which would be rough. Good thing I'm not doing the escape room. So all that being said, let's hope it goes well. I'm kind of excited to see their response to this. This is gonna be great. - Okay, this room's letter is F. Room two was U. Room three was K. The last room we were just in was R. - R, R, F. - What was room one? - Let's just try them all. - I'll be back. Oh, but the cobwebs, no. - Yeah. - Guys, I'm gonna go on a great, I'm going on an adventure. - Wait, what do you mean room six, seven? Wait, how many rooms have we been through? Oh, wait, some. - Oh, subscribe. - It's subscribe. - It's gonna be subscribe. - This is room F, and room nine is F. - Subriff. - That would be crazy. - I'm going on an expedition to locate all the num. - Subrff. - Or sub-narr-fey. - Sub-to-narr-f. Sub-to-narr-f. Sub-to-narr-f. - Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. - Sub-to-narr-f. - Oh, for pity's sake, of course it is. - Ow. - That's definitely, that's definitely an N. - That's definitely an N. - Come on. - Try again. Reset, reset, reset. - Eh. - Yeah. - Eh. (laughing) - No, I need to figure out the answer. And now you can get to Freedom! - Freedom. - I feel like this isn't freedom. - This doesn't feel like freedom. - There's always a catch. - It's always a catch with Knarfy. Don't trust it. - Oh, no. - Freedom. (laughing) - Take me, void. - Woo. - Yeah. (laughing) Looking back at the footage, the creators had a time of 20 minutes and 6 seconds, which is a pretty good time, honestly. All things considered, getting through these rooms in about 20 minutes is actually kind of impressive. But does that stand a chance to just sheer numbers? So here we go, time to spin up a livestream and get about 150 people on the server to see if they can beat that time. It's gonna go great! W-w-uh, right? Yes, my people! Yes! Welcome to the escape room! Well, there's some potential that this could absolutely break, um, but we're-we're gonna find out. We're about to find out if it does. We've got, what? We got 169 nice players, and we're gonna just, uh, we're gonna begin right now. This first room might not work out super well, but here we go! Here they come. Oh, no! [laughs] Oh, oh, oh! Oh! Okay, well, you know what? They did a great job for the first room. You know what? I thought that was gonna go way worse than it did. It's still-it's so laggy. It's so laggy, but it's going! Oh, boy. Oh, boy. Oh, boy. Oh, boy. [laughs] Someone looked too deep into a bookshelf. I can just-wait, I can just stand back here, wait for the lightning? Or not, you know, maybe not, maybe not lightning. Oh, there it is. Yep, there it is. So many players! There's just so many! There's so many of them. There are-look at them all. Look at them all! Whoops, someone found the right place! Someone found the right place! Where-who knows where it is, though, because, uh, yeah. Yeah, who found it? Room 3! Room 3's been unlocked! Room 3 has been unlocked! Room 3 has been unlocked! Are you subscribed? Let's see-oh, apparently Jonas is not subscribed. Yep, bye. Jonas is not subscribed. Uh, also, that person was also not subscribed. This person was also not subscribed. Okay, well, now people have made it into this room. Room number 4! This is just chaos. Is that the button, guys? Or is this the button? I-who knows? Don't help them Laf. Leave them. [laughs] Oh, that's so much better. [laughs] Yeah! Look at them all! Man, you guys having fun there? You enjoying yourselves there? Yep. Oh, apparently this room has also been unlocked, but the doors are not-the doors are not going down correctly. Um, these guys are looking for the hint. They're looking around, trying to get to the hint. Um, the lasers are terrible. They-they kill you. Why is this d-this hasn't gone down. I mean, the animations aren't playing. Alright, we broke it, guys. We broke the doors. That's awesome. Uh, I might be able to actually just, uh... [door opens] Okay, the door's fixed! The door's fixed! What's the hint? What is it? You know, get to me and find out what the hint is. Yep, don't touch the lasers. They hurt. That's the hint. Don't touch the lasers. So, now the question is, how do you get through? How do you get through? How do you get through, guys? How do you-oh my gosh, the capes. The capes are just floating. Oh, and this room is reset. Yeah, this room is reset. Oh, hi Laf. [laughs] Oh, yeah, yeah, I guess we can just wait in here, you know? We can just chill out, you know? Just vibe in here with Dave, you know? Yeah, they'll get here someday. That has your day. [laughs] Mmm, yep. [inhales] Yup. They still haven't found the button. Like, I'm kind of impressed that they haven't found the button. Because it's like, kind of one of the- Oh, oh, oh! They got it! They got it! They did it! Alright, let's see if they can unlock Dave. [music] They unlocked Dave! Oh, boy, here we go. Yup, this is room number seven. Yup, this is-this is the- [laughs] That's about what I expected, I'm not gonna lie. Okay, these guys made it over here. I think they-they've already unlocked this room. They've already made it through. [laughs] Now there's more parkour! More parkour, yay! Oh, you know what? They're also updating their spawn point to over there! Oh, no! I think I need to fix that. Uh, there we go, there we go. Now your spawn point is correct. Okay, there we go. Yup, there we go. Okay, this room, this room, there's definitely not a catch. Oh my gosh, the number of players that are right here! Oh, someone, I think, found it! Someone found something! What'd they find? What'd they find? [laughs] I hope they grabbed enough of the buckets for this to work. Uh, yup, they're all gone. All the buckets are gone in there. Yup, oh, oh, oh, okay, alright. That's a step in the right direction, maybe. Hopefully they got more than one bucket. They can't pick up the water after that. Yup, there we go, there we go. That would help. Honestly, we're just kind of brute forcing this with the number of players that are here. This is just insane. So many players think they might need some help. Um, oh, oh, oh, they're making some progress. They're making some progress. You know what the problem is? They can't place water when there's like players in the way, I think so. So we're just kind of, we're just kind of going here. Yup, we've got 154 players online right now. Okay, okay, yup, this is a step in the right direction. Alright, okay, that's good. They've solved a part of this. Now we need to figure out how to unlock the door. It's definitely not currently on my screen the way to unlock this door. Um, oh, Hayden for the win. Well done. Well done, Hayden, well done. And here we are, the final room. Good luck with this number of people. This might take a while. This could, uh, this could take some time, I'm not gonna lie. Yeah, uh-huh, yeah, there's, you know, they've got a couple of them right. I'm gonna go through, I'm gonna help you guys out a little bit because there's probably not gonna be a really easy way for you guys to get this whole thing. The answer is not subscribe, even though it looks like it could be because the final letter is in fact F. So, check out this one, room number 8. Is this 8? Yeah, this is 8, is an R. Number 7 is an A. This room, there's a letter somewhere, it's right there. Okay, letter N. Uh, uh, uh, uh, oh, they were getting there, they had it, they almost had it. Uh, what, yeah, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, yeah, there you go. Oh my gosh, they're like actually gonna get it. Are they actually gonna get it? I would be so impressed. They're so close, they're so close, you guys are so close. Oh! They did it, how did they do it? That was incredible. That was so magical. I can't believe they actually pulled that off. Everybody go, escape, escape through the bottom of the tunnel, yay. Yay, to freedom. Letting them do the parkour. Final time for you guys was 11 minutes and 30 seconds. About, about 11 minutes and 30 seconds. Final time for the creators, 20 minutes and 6 seconds. You guys beat them by like 9 minutes. That's crazy. They got destroyed. That's all from me today, folks. So, umm... /ban @a