We've lost control. I can't get it on! As an astronaut, it's frustrating to watch these kinds of scenes. You absolutely would've had a My name is Nicole Stott, and I had about a 30-year career with NASA. Started out as a NASA and International Space Station programs and then was very as a NASA astronaut and fly Today we're going to look and judge how real they are. You open the hatch, the There is a moment. The point of an airlock lock in the air. And so if you've got a greater and there's a vacuum on the outside and you don't equalize it's going to explosively release. It's a really dangerous Endurance rotation is 67, 68 rpm. CASE, if I black out, you take the stick. Blacking out from extreme forces is a common potential issue in space. You know, we should try so that load is limited on and not pass out. In this case, they were and so that load was going and I like that he says that it should take over if he passes out. It's a real possibility, especially, he doesn't have his helmet on. He is not pumping air for himself to stay awake. You know, the computer might than we as humans could. CASE: Cooper, we are lined up. Initiating spin. Because he's reacting to this spin, he turns his head kind to help from passing out. If you're the one in you're much more aware of is impacting your body as I think this clip was as you could get for the Super fast spinning station that they're trying to dock with. Everything that they do you would have to do in real life, right? You would have to match the spin. You would have to move in deliberately to make that contact. When we dock with our spacecraft to a space station, we're as much as you possibly can. I would give this scene I just don't know if the extremes of it would be possible or not. That's a bad day in space. There's a combination of things that it's going to cause your to freeze when it's exposed But some things would happen before that. Of course, there's no air out there, so you would likely suffocate Then all of a sudden you and that's absolutely going to happen. There's no pressure holding in our body anymore. So we live in this environment on Earth or inside of our spacesuits that helps keep us alive, and it actually keeps all So if you go out and are all of what we hold into our and there's a lot of water in our skin and so that is going to want to expand. Did that look cool? You know, if you were to go outside without your helmet on, it's you know, transition to not I think, you know, 30 They might be able to resuscitate him or he might be able to come back, but I don't think he'd that he did before. Essentially, when you look at how his face bloated and the freezing and what would be the boiling of the fluids in your body, your lungs are going to be impacted. Everything about you is going to be burnt in some way. I would give this scene a five. And I really think I could have gone up to seven for realism, but because of what we know about after this scene. Shut down. When the computers are computing and figuring out a particular trajectory or path for the spacecraft, they're using a fixed object as well. It might be a star, it it might be signals from a satellite. But in this case, where they're basically fly in a way to get back in the ocean on Earth, their biggest reference was the Earth. And it's really extraordinary the way they portrayed this in the scene. I think it was really well done. All depends on the heat shield. For them to make their to get back into Earth's atmosphere and to get home safely on the heat shield that's on It shields the spacecraft from the heat that it's going to experience as it's burning through the atmosphere. All that heat and, you know, flame plasma that you see in that scene is the heat that's being of that spacecraft Why the burn they did was so critical too is that you don't want to be too steep coming into the atmosphere, and you don't want to be too shallow coming back into the atmosphere. If you're too steep, you're going to get too If you're too shallow, you like skip off the edge of the atmosphere, which sounds completely wacky. They didn't have all of So they were getting super which on the one hand is good. You're about to reenter the atmosphere, and it's going to get really hot, and you want to kind of pre-soak the inside of your cockpit with cold air. So when it gets hot, and hot and cold mix, it's going to start condensating So I really like that they included that. I think it's, again, true to the reality of what would've gone on. Jim: Hello, Houston, this is Odyssey. It's good to see you again. The use of parachutes, you'll The Russian Soyuz The SpaceX Dragon capsule that we send crew to and from uses parachutes. The chutes are another way of slowing the spacecraft down more before it does it splashdown. Normally it's going to happen by sensing, you know, sensors on the spacecraft detecting a pressure change as it's reentering the atmosphere, and they automatically deploy. The crew also has a So if you get to a certain altitude and those chutes have not deployed, there's a way for you I would rate these clips from &quot;Apollo 13&quot; with a 10. I think they're about to what the reality would be. There's some good stuff. She's going to, you know, and she kind of forgets when I squeeze the trigger on this thing and start blowing this it's going to push me back.&quot; Totally legit. One of the most, you know, is to get flying too fast and bonk your noggin on a big metal hatch or free-floating things from a different direction We do a lot to try to stay safe from that. You know, you control the way you're moving through the station. We have Velcro on everything to try to keep it secure if we're not intending Every astronaut, I think, who watches this is like, &quot;Oh, my gosh, the in any fire is before you you're going to put on your mask.&quot; So the mask that we use it's actually a mask and also provide you with clean It's totally different than the helmet or the mask we would have or during, you know, launch and entry. Microgravity has its impact on everything. For a fire, especially one, you know, not just a fire burning itself, but has some explosive nature to it, it's going to want to just continue moving and growing in that direction. And I think they did a pretty of showing kind of this billowing and, you know, the way the fire grows inside of the spacecraft. They're wanting to kind of this ball of flame in the station. She sees this other space station that she wants to get to. You know, if she fires when she's looking right at it and the thing goes out the back, she's going to go in one I don't know that it would they showed it in the film. The idea is good. You even hear her in the you know, and then squeeze the trigger. So those were all good kind of things to consider in all of this. Whether the fire extinguisher I don't even want to Yeah, one of the things was the visuals with the way It's one of the best presentations I remember watching this &quot;Oh, my gosh.&quot; It was reminding me of what I think I'd have to rate a five for realism. The reality would be you'd have a mask on, you'd assess that fire really quickly, and see that it's out of control. And then I'm not quite sure would've been the chosen way to get yourself to that Astronaut: Look at this. The big blue marble. Spacesuits have different and the gold ones that it's like having sunglasses on. And that gold, it really The intensity of the sun is really extreme when you're on the moon. There's no atmosphere to protect you from the heat and the light. Astronaut: Alpha, we need backup ASAP. We're being ambushed. On the moon, there's one-sixth the gravity of what we have here on Earth, and when the debris is it's almost got kind So when you think about it's going to have a than it would down here on Earth. It might stay up a little longer. It might travel further But that doesn't mean that you were aiming at. Roy? I have a puncture. So if you've got a puncture in your suit while you're out in space, thankfully in the space suits themselves, they have tanks that are hopefully for a long enough time that allows you to get You know, in this case, They're being attacked. I like that they show that, you know, they discovered where this leak is, apparently, you know, holding the line. Lunar rovers on the moon, You know, they're going and so the suspension is on the rovers than the You got to be careful because they can flip easier than what a vehicle And so it's a little bit tenuous You have to think in three dimensions about the way you're driving your rover than you do the way you But you get going too fast, especially if you hit you're just going to keep And so it's probably that you would want to in your rover on the moon. I think I'd have to rate You can definitely drive You can definitely do a lot of what they were doing. But the way they were and, you know, the turns and all of that, I think the reality is you'd be seeing a lot more of those vehicles flipping before they ever got shot. There are a lot of layers just to maintain the pressure and the structural integrity but that doesn't mean they We used to inspect them. Like, And even little tiny could cause an imperfection in the window. They're encountering that are coming at them They've got a lot of I think, you know, there's that the windows could shatter. Astronaut: We have lost control! I can't get it on! As an astronaut, it's frustrating to watch these kinds of scenes. It's kind of the Hollywood part of it, where you want to see the actor's face, so they don't have their helmets on, and then somehow at the by, you know, getting their You absolutely would've had a Guess I'd have to give this I'd rate this clip 10 for excitement in the way that it all went down. I mean, I think about it now these days, where we almost take for granted the ability to orbit in a spacecraft. John Glenn was, you know, the first American astronaut to do that, and it was incredible to think about. We had done these suborbital and we come right back down. But now we were going to be in space for You know, you had to build up a little bit more energy to actually keep falling around and then to predict and get safely back to Earth. And that's what we were in this scene. And he's kind of straining. You know, I think he's responding during reentry. Down here on Earth, we I think in the case of, he might have been experiencing 7, 8 g's for an extended period of time. Where you feel like, you know, pushing down in that seat John, can't hear you. He's hit the ionization blackout. No communications are So you're going through, you know, this friction of getting It's getting really super hot, You know, where you get this that makes it impossible for the antennas and the communication systems to link up. And believe it or not, these kinds of communication blackouts can still happen today. I am really thankful that as astronauts we don't have to do that test anymore. You know, that was all back in This test and some of the others which are based on, you know, real medical and physical kinds of activities that they put these astronauts through, was because there was so much unknown. How the human body would react in space. You know, the microgravity environment in the launch and reentry environment of getting to and from space. They were really, I think, trying to assess the limits, kind of the extremes of just right here on Earth. And by understanding that of what the astronaut traveling to space. Yeah, I think I'd have in &quot;The Right Stuff&quot; a rating of a 10. And I think about it now these days where we almost take for granted the ability to orbit in a spacecraft and how just awesome that was for it to happen. The machine they're training on is called a Multi-Axis Trainer, and by that, it means that in all the different And again, I'm so happy that, as current-day astronauts, And it was meant to kind of, you know, get your head and, you know, have you and the forces that were on you. When you're in a spacecraft, you could get into all And especially if it might not just be, in this one direction.&quot; You could be tumbling and rolling and having these effects on the spacecraft itself. We do a lot of things you know, unusual altitudes can maybe result in disorientation. One of the main ways we do that is in these small trainer and where we purposefully will do a lot of aerobatic flying and see how our bodies are and how we might be able to take control to recover the situation. So you want to understand, and body going to respond and how could you be part of the solution, instead of potentially part of making something worse There's just something reminiscent of it, to be able to watch even on a different spaceship, to launch in the spacecraft you fly on it. I have to say, though, I think the shaking that was a lot more intense than what we had on the Space Shuttle, which I still felt like You know, the Saturn V was You've got this big, long rocket, right? This really super tall rocket. You know, you've got what you know, those big engines that were lighting at the launchpad to get the vehicle off the pad and moving in the direction that it's supposed to be going. Those engines run out, and that part of the vehicle separates, and now you start these other and it goes on and on through these different stages. The ideal is that it burns up and there's no debris caused from it. I would rate these clips I love that in this of the real footage that exists and they only improvised or went dramatic if they needed to. Even in the places where to a higher definition, it still felt like it would've been of that time. The ship stops spinning, leading to a loss of gravity on board. They're going super far You know, they need to have this load on their body of gravity. So spinning the spaceship is one of the ways that they do that. And as we start thinking about traveling to places like Mars, we've got to consider, how do we use something like a centrifuge motion? And it allows your body And we're going to need to consider that to keep our astronauts and further on these from Earth. Water and all fluids in that or where there isn't gravity, The surface tension causes that to happen. You know, when we &quot;shower&quot; we don't have running water, right? There's no gravity to pull the like you would have here on Earth. So we squeeze balls of out of the straw on and we can squeeze out into the air. And then you could just stick your arm through that ball of water, and it's going to form like and then you mush the soap around, and then you put your arm to rinse it and sop it up with your towel. You could absolutely swim in the water. Unlike what you see of they could swim through the air, you know, inside their spaceship. It's not going to do you any good. There's no resistance against that. But the water does give It looks really abrupt. And that same thing I mean, you would get some slow onset of the load on the thing, to just any load on it is going to cause a very abrupt shift in anything that was floating at the time. I would rate this scene a seven, because I like the way they really tried to portray the reality in a microgravity environment. My favorite space movie, are &quot;Galaxy Quest&quot; and &quot;Rocket Man.&quot; And it has nothing to do with the reality of what goes on in these movies with respect to space or anything. I just love the way in just the interaction kind of the personality of the crew and how they engage with each other, it just reminds me so astronauts in real life, are If you like this video,