I trained an AI with over 10,000 memes if I is funny. Insert your image, wait for the prompt and automatically get your meme ready. So in today's video I'm going to walk you I train the model, and some strange things So first, it's worthy of knowing I found this image here on Twitter Let's asked to generate a funny caption. Start from the bottom. Now we're here. Just hope my battery doesn't die Like, I don't even think my grandma But before we get started, and what makes them so funny? Memes have evolved a ton The very beginning was associated content dancing Baby Hamster Dance, the internet's potential. Then we have the classic era of sharing content online, like Chocolate Then the idea of rage comics and advice These images were crude, easy to make, and almost made you feel included and after. This means could arguably be described Making fun of old or current trends and completely over-the-top or adding filters means have changed a ton. I like this quote right here, a meme to deliver a cultural, social, or currently the Apple App Store is under So this meme has found a way to be funny. but even able to capture something like right, history class is over. Let's get into the code. First we grab as many memes as humanly possible. We take the text of the meme and the image and run it through a large language model we take these images and text data a large language model to give a good meme Then we create an interface as able Related News Articles for modern context the ideas that make means relevant based on the subject matter, That means when a news story happens, This is such a stupid thing to work on. First, the data collection. The issue we have with They're just not good, boring and funny. However, there's a lot of websites that are out there that help users as well as create the templates here. Like for example, right here And what makes us significant is that it as blank form with the community making posts about it And this helps us understand and the relationship as to why it's funny So this gives us a good training framework while having captions What is considered But for now, let's scrape all of these meme templates We can also grab the meanings behind means on wiki sites like Know Your Means, for these types of things. If you're familiar with web scraping, A lot of websites force to navigate their whole website, So we have to simulate to get the information ourselves So I'm going to be using Bright Idea which will be a proxy to my browser I've been using bright Data for a while and they were kind enough to sponsor The World of Web scrapers You'll go down. One of the biggest rabbit holes With bright data helps that you need using their proxy network, or their massive proxy Okay. So I wrote a script here Let's just insert this one line of code to see if everything's fine. Let's go. I mean, it's kind of cool. It's kind of like, you know, hacker vibes. Now I can just leave this running Data can also save captures automatically All right, let's see. Wow. So we're able to grab a ton of meme collections Now the reason why having a template captions with it is perfect Why a particular meme is funny. Then all of those memes to the template itself. So when the user decides to get a meme, it will understand what meme to choose And all of this work just to make some By the million dollar question, So I'm going to use this model called TVL. I hope I'm saying that is a Chinese one. To read a meme For I will give an incredibly detailed So I'm going to have that read the meme Lava will give me an incredibly Then for all the memes, that is a part of, and also make sure it matches During training. Love that. open. A.I. I don't know what it's called. It's CBT, but it has a 100 day rate limit but I have like a million memes. You think I am going to wait So I'm going to write this Python script was able to run the whole thing I used a Allama highly recommend it So, like this one, for example, The sign reads, No, hipsters don't be vegan diets at your feet, no brews, no hamsters. then the chopper design is on I'm from a building with a sign that says hipsters. The sign seems to be a humorous who fit certain stereotypes suggests that there will be, my God, no entry for individuals matching The style of the image is informal taking outdoors and my God, or this one. The image shows an open All your files are exactly The laptop appears to be an Acer model. The desk or table has a blurred background overall settings We have a ton of data here. A concerning amount be perfectly honest. need to fine tune a large language model So the one I found here which is a multi-modal large language This would be perfect because I want users Now the documentation is as fun to follow. Fine tuning large language models of the large language model itself. Whenever these knobs are turned, that you want. So for things like GB, for they have fine to serve their purpose as a general and for my scenario, so that it can make a funny meme I give it to do this. I'm giving the model training data I give it the response a large language There's this project called Onslaught, really fast and support So for me, I'm going to use Mistral which at the time has some of the best tune this locally, it means I can iterate and the documentation is pretty good. made it so you can even do it on So Sadly, it'll just be with the captions, We're So something that I have noticed already and some of the captions coming out, know, Really. So at this point, I almost just started to realize a truth Maybe I doesn't know how to be funny while human beings that's funny in the first place, why is it did someone order a fill Minion? You seriously didn't But then when you do this to an image, This is at least more funny But with this specific example, a meme is a form of a parody you see by juxtaposed with content this led me down a gigantic rabbit in the first place. Reading the theories, I decided that to add an element of surprise So I decided to split them into six exaggeration, absurdity, Incongruity, incongruity. Right. I hate that word. So instead of just being like, how to be funny in a very specific way So the AI is adding humor by just being part of why the memes are so funny in the first place we're talking about memes, the largely the language that these beams can produce, huge part of memes as well as the context when it comes to the virality of memes. and one of the biggest sources of in the world. So a feature I'd love to try is getting right now and using that as a context Let's give it a try. I'm going to use Bright Data to plug into my web scraper to get news Again, let's just copy and paste this so the memes are starting to come out especially when I attribute it So let's just find a way to make this so everyone can use it. now a meme format all of the internet is labeling objects so you'll often And then labels over top of them of what's happening in that scene. This usually is an extreme scenario of some sort by is represented So I was thinking about creating some custom code really easily. Now, because you're seeing the highlight Let me explain. First, We get the meme that it most relates to We then add a category of humor to it. if you're interested in the more raw I have a second channel Check it out if you want. so when it comes to the images to create, we need to be able to locate these objects Throughout my entire project, which is a fantastic library sure it'll be fine It's a seriously a great library. I recommend it's unable to identify truly is I mean, one time I said it was a dog. So this large language this understanding of large language model and understanding with masking space And this is perfect for my use case to identify objects of interest So we just have to change Last part is to create the user interface for this. I'm going to use what everyone is using source project in Python that gives you a bunch of these cool great with this is that I was using just a command line to run my scripts Trust me, it was horrible. But rather than having to connect I can just plug in my function All the UI elements for me. okay, and ready to be shown off again. All of the code is open source and you can So here's the application right here. candy faces Okay, I think that'd be a good one. I kind of want to give a try So let's try this one right here. So. So I came back with licorice glass, okay. Never mind. Now let's see if we do the Drake and see if we can get a meme out of it. So I'll put it in there. Hopefully a Wikipedia article works. I don't see why not. my God. If they can do this one, I mean, this is not really necessarily I mean, I kind of expected it to be like in this type of language Taylor Swift Yeah, you get the point. Okay, let's Sometimes it doesn't come out good. I mean, this image wasn't necessarily I do have some code in there a caption rather than like a label, Outside of this, though, that came out Now, this video was tough to me if I was even going to release it But as you can obviously tell the place, like future and present, sometimes I see online I'm a great programmer, Like, it's just not true. of me wanted to release this video because it was just a nice way I make bad code. Sometimes it doesn't work Again, which I kind of go more into detail. Check out the livestream as well. I also have a hackathon coming up soon