The process in Move I think it was quite more difficult than in Change because it took me more time. And I start very motivated because I was sharing tries with Change also and this was very motivating because when when one day I wasn't feeling good on Move, I was good in Change and if other day I wasn't feeling good in Change I was a bit better in Move. So Move had the first ascent by Adam Ondra in 2013. It starts on the right of the cave and then it continiues by the whole roof. The first pitch is like 9a, and you climb the hard part of Little Badder and then it has a good rest and the second part is like 9a very bouldery. It's like two different parts. Other thing that helps me in this project I think was sharing tries with other climbers because in Spain I usually try alone all my projects. And I think this is a plus of motivation to try harder and push yourself. At the beggining of this trip I was sharing tries with Seb Bouin because he's trying Move integral and then it was Alex Megos I was also climbing with him. And then at the end of the trip before sending the route I was climbing with Stefano Ghosolfi and Domen Skofic It's really nice and motivating for me sharing tries with them. It looks a brutal. It has like after 40 or 45 meters it has this brutal end It is basically no tricks, but just pure hanging on small holds in the roof. I can imagine arriving at Move a bit fresher but still being able to do this moves from the ground is incredible, eh? It didn't felt that far But this way I get it is impossible to keep going I stay like that and I can't move. - And the other is event worst? - I guess I could improve if I'm less tense but in the lower part I feel more relaxed not like the half upper part... - You know that the kneebar feeling change with the conditions - I think the hel I got from my friends was determinating because somedays I was giving up and they actually tried to help me everytime like "Venga, Jorge" "Come on! You can do it!" "Doesn't matter i'ts just a couple days of not feeling good" "Then with good conditions you can do it!" All this help from them was very good. What's up guys? How're you doing? So, It's been very well all you had planned for me for those last days From far, my coaches from Sputnik Climbing, Ekhi and Pedro, They were helping me a lot even from far They call me many times and send me like lot of power. They also analyze the videos and I think that helps a lot and having help from my family too. I's really cool have this great help. I think without this help I won't send the route. What was determinating for send this project was to found a balance, a mentally balance when you are really close is a point you start to don't enjoy And I think actually sit down and try to calm and think about that this is what you want, beeing in here. Trying the project without thinking on the resoult you want to try the route and also enjoying the progress and I think understanding this was the key and it is alwys the key for sending the project because I think you need to don't forget this this is an pleassure been here in flatanger trying hard routes, it's a great oportunity. The progress was continius progress more or less because I was doing a high point in every try and also arriving at the last boulder a bit better in every try. But then to finish the route, the last days I felt I was the most difficult because after two months here I was starting to feel more tired and maybe a bit less confident. Actually is very hard when you spent two months walking to the same place coming to the same cave, the same routine, the same warm up, also trying to have a good feeling on the route and it's very difficult mentally. I think this was a bit harder because for two months you also sometimes struggle with the conditions every day. It's not good condition. You don't have good skin everyday. And you're not feeling at 100% everyday. And I feel also like, to put everything together on the boulder at the end is very hard. You really need to arrive in perfect conditions not only about forearms, is about puting all together about moves is more about getting the mental work done for fight in this moves because are the last moves in the meter 50m. It was difficult to put all together To have also an strategy and everything was hard after months. I felt on the last move and for me in one point I was thinking is the last try of the day because I normally do one try in a project like that I just do one try per day and if I fell on the top part after climbing a lot, like 50m was actually the first time I said I would do one second try I will try just for training andI think this helped me to put out all my nerviousism. and expectations of myself But I was doing the moves more fast Maybe more dynamic also, without thinking in the resoult and I think I was saving energy and somehow I found myself clipping the chain. Come on Jorge! Come on Jorge! Give it all! It was really crazy because I never thouhgt that I could send one hard route on my second try in a day especially after falling on the last moves. So, yeah it was crazy! Come on! I can't belive it!