It hurts! I can't fight 12 rounds of 3 minutes like Boxing. But no one knows what will happen if it's a one-time fight. I'm over 70 years old now, but until about 60, I thought it was possible. If it's a one-time fight... This is an unreleased video after shooting &quot;GREAT JOURNEY OF KARATE&quot;. Meitatsu Yagi sensei starts something! We use this part to hit. Since it was an unexpected event, I will show you the video taken in a hurry. Hitting with here will hurt you very much. I hit it with a bone. It hurts! Are you OK, Naka sensei? My body collapsed. He must be familiar with how the human body works. I'm still in pain! The pain remains. How to use a bone is important. Could you do it again? If the opponent comes with a punch... With grabbing and pulling his hand, push him with your foot. Amazing. When dealing with a big guy, pushing like this does not work. However, the tip of his fist can be pressed with one finger. It's the principle of leverage. I see. If your leg is attacked... If the opponent kicks your foot, &quot;Mawashigeri&quot;? It hurts if you pull your foot back. Kick me again. You push! That way you won't hurt. It hurts when you pull. It looks like a cutting-edge fighting technique! Amazing... We can't predict when his guidance will begin. It's a great time. One attack is important in Karate. I can't fight 12 rounds of 3 minutes like Boxing. But no one knows what will happen if it's a one-time fight. I'm over 70 years old now, but until about 60, I thought it was possible. If it's a one-time fight... Great! Step on the instep of the opponent with your thumb to stop his movement. And punch. I experienced it. Yagi sensei stepped on my foot with his thumb, I couldn't move at all. He said &quot;All I have to do is hit your face&quot;. I practice &quot;Sanchin&quot; every day. We don't do &quot;Oi-zuki&quot; and &quot;Oi-uke&quot;. If you do &quot;Oi-zuki&quot;, your body will be out of balance. Do not move the center of your body. If you punch with loosing the balance, the opponent will grab your hand. Don't try to block a punch that doesn't reach you. If you look closely, you don't need to block it. Two cats are facing each other. They are intimidating each other. When a limit comes, they move. The body doesn't move. Only the hand moves. The center of the body does not move. It's like this. Cat Fist Kung-fu? This is "Ate" (bump). This is "Oshi", which is push against opponent's Tsuki. &quot;Sepai&quot; contains this movement- &quot;Tsuki&quot; to the throat and then push here. It's not an elbow strike? Elbow strikes him with this area. This area is "Ate", and this is "Oshi". They are all different. Again, this is elbow "Ate", and this is "Oshi". Strike opponent's chin, and use "Oshi" like this. This technique doesn't exist in our style. I'm not that threatened by kicks. Kick with power. You've mentally given up already, aren't you? Will you try? When I first met Meitatsu sensei, I was told, &quot;Kick me as you like.&quot; At that time, I thought it was a chance. What if I seriously kick a master in the 60s? It's a precious opportunity. I kicked him with all my might. Then... That was a shocking experience. But if you don't take this opportunity to try it seriously, it will be a loss. Did you kick with all your might? We fight in one attack. I can't fight young people for 3 minutes. There is no choice but to fight with one attack. The impact spreads from the hit part. That's right. Not just one place. Meitatsu sensei didn't move much, right? He didn't. I'm old, so I try not to move much. I have to save energy as much as possible and win. When I was young, I could win by force, but when I got older, I couldn't win without some ingenuity. Please show me how to deal with the opponent's kick. His kick would reach me if I stand here. His kick wouldn't reach by doing just this. I only have to move a little bit like this. &quot;Tai-Chi&quot; has movements like these. These movements are exactly the same concept as blocking and breaking the &quot;Tsuki&quot;. &quot;Tai-Chi&quot; performs slower, but they are effective techniques if performed faster. During old war times you would have been killed if it was known you were a martial artist. So the techniques were slowed to hide them while training. As a result, these movements become valid techniques by speeding them up. &quot;Okinawans&quot; hid the techniques in traditional dance movements. It was a mistake to remove your microphone early. A very valuable story came out later. You can record the sound properly, right? Humans cannot speak at all at a set time. We speak every time we remember something. There is a word of my teacher, Meitoku Yagi sensei. The words I speak on a regular basis are my testament. There is such an anecdote. The rich get drunk and hide the money in the house. He looks for the money when he's not drunk, but he just can't find it. One day he was drunk again and searched and found the money. There is a monk who is meditating in &quot;Zazen&quot;. He said &quot;I tried hard to be &quot;Nothing&quot;, but it didn't work&quot;. That's no good already. He is thinking of not thinking about anything. The teaching is &quot;just sit down.&quot; It's already no good to think about being &quot;Nothing&quot;. Just sit down. Let me ask you a strange question. There are many continuous attacks in Fighting Sports. How do you feel about it? They must be strong They have great speed and power. I don't know if I can defeat them until I actually fight. The reality often does not go according to theory. Defeat or be defeated ... We strike as we block. Then we open hands to make single lethal technique. Same concept goes for Chudan. Even time to make a fist could be a waste. Making a fist shortens, and it turns it into a blunt weapon. Opening the hands would make it into a sharp and longer tool. The open hand in Karate always bends the thumb and it crushes an eye of the opponent. You'd won 1/3 of the actual fight already then. You can let him grab, and threat it from above his arms. Treat it when he's about to knee-strike like this. Wait for him to raise his knee. Twist your hip right then. Squeeze the underarm. When you kick... I can feel it all the way down in my hip! Even after the block and grab, strong arms won't break this way. So apply the hip as you block to break it. How does that feel, Naka sensei? This is effective for sure. &quot;Gojyu-ryu&quot; especially has focus on close combat. Step back and strike this weak area. Kick here. Always target inside area. Right. The inside. You can counter kicks by blocking and striking like this. You can crush the opponent's legs. Boxers punch consecutively, so he must be beaten before he throws the next attack. In the real-life combat, the first strike must be countered with these. We execute both by striking while blocking. Here it is. Block with this part of the arm because it's a little bit easier. Block it with both hands and stab the opponent's eyes. Press the joint, hold and push these areas, and drop your body. This side is the point of leverage. His hand would break from getting hooked here. Thanks for showing us your &quot;Kata&quot;. Meitatsu Yagi sensei is over 70 now. It's like a Budo Master in &quot;Manga&quot;! It's cool! Everyone is a Hero in &quot;Kuro-obi World&quot;. Of course you are also a Hero! See you again in &quot;Kuro-obi World&quot;!