IN THIS CHANNEL WE WILL TEACH EDUCATE AND MAKE YOU READY SO YOU CAN DO IT YOUSELF THE BEST LOCKSMITH TIPS THAT WE KNOW... WE WILL SHARE WITH YOU SILVER EAGLE LOCKSMITH LAS VEGAS Welcome to Silver Eagle Locksmith Las Vegas YouTube Channel. My name is Koby and I am a professional locksmith here in Las Vegas, Nevada for more than six years. on this channel will provide you with tutorial, on how to increase your home affordable solutions that i personally video today we'll walk through each step Yes, That's what it is. the ultimate like Fort Knox. I recommend to install that strike plate in any door in the house or just The front door, it's an optional, with the installation of the strike plate you will prevent At least you will make your door super resistant to burglary, by door jam attack and all other forced entry. The main tools that you will need to install that strike plate is: the actual strike plate of course, and we'll tell you where you can buy that. and actually we are going to share a link right below this video where you can buy that strike plate You will need a power drill, most people have that. You will need an 1/8th inch drill bit just a standard drill bit. And a screwdriver, just a Phillips screwdriver will do the work. And there is a few other tools that you will need as well we'll talk about that in installation Ok, so the different strike plates that are out there are Residential strike plate you can see the picture right? Yeah, it's right there. Ok, we have a Residential strike plate, and we have a Commercial strike plate the picture is there? Oh yeah, ok. So the Commercial strike plate and we got a Damage Cover Up strike plate. today we're going to install that guy damage cover-up strike plate but let strike plate before something happened to break into your house it will beginning so stay tuned we're going to show you hi there again so we're going to show plate as we talked about earlier i got they call it ultimate kick in protection by Defender Security. This strike plate I've been using for a while with my work customers they are happy with that. It gives a great security and it's reinforcing like the best I mean that I know any way. you can buy share links later on right below the video and now what we're step-by-step how to install it the right installation so you don't make any so let's go. ok so now what you're going installing the product you want to make what the manufacturer say you gotta jam which is the your actual frame So, what I used to do is I am using an 1/8th drill bit, that's enough space to install the stick it right here between the gap and to make sure I have enough space you so in this door the product will fit is instruction how to install it anyway with a small gap between the door and the frame. ok so the first thing now what we're going to do is to remove the old strike Gonna remove them completely, the top and the bottom one now we're going to start What I like to do is to remove that rubber thing here so it won't bother us with the installation because sometimes it does. Don't remove it completely, just take it, just like this to install the plate ok so now we're going to start with the and what we want to do we want to make usually it's 5 1/2 inch to 6 inch. yeah and this one what I see it's 5 1/2 inch. so what you have to do, you have to remove this small square here. you can use any tool that I use a dremel and that's it, that's the and later on I'll show you what to do if you don't have a dremel or anything 1/8th drill bit but you've got to be very so you don't hurt yourself of course so position so it won't cut you or whatever other tools but this is not a big deal just be careful that's it make sure you hold it tight all the time ok now you can use any screwdriver or pry it open. kinda of play with it a way you do it because you know, you can here are very sharp so you want to be very careful when you i use some other tools to shave that how to do it later just be careful because you can cut not with the top two, we're going to start with the ones in three four holes we're going to drill with an 1/8th drill bit all the way in, all the way in. and then we're going to start with the going to drill all the way in because it's a small screws. ok? all right, ok so now we're going to drill those ones as I said they're going to be that's about the screws that you need going to drill now, that's one. Two. we go down. alright. ok so now we're going to take the screw so we got the large screws which is the better little bit less than an inch, so screw first and we go step by step right now. ok so now we have those two plates one it's complete the plate in the middle underneath just like this and those two that's why I left that screws like that before you tighten those up to make sure both of them they are it's okay doesn't have to be a 100%. but so we do the same thing we mark the holes that we need Now you can put those two short screws which got the first you can actually remove that one for now Ok, now we gonna drill the 1/8th bit, we gonna install the 3 inch screws so we gonna drill all the way. you wanna go a little off side so it will actually attach better to the stud inside. That's one. Number two and that's the last one, okay. Ok, so now we are going to install the plate that go on top of it, just like this. you can see it's flat and you're going to use a 3-inch screws That's how we gonna do it Don't tighten it all the way, just use a regular screwdriver to tighten it up because you don't want the head to break. Just tighten with your hand that's how I do it. and it's strong enough. Ok, so now the last part of that plate is the bottom one. and you're going to do the exact same to drill 3 inch screws right here so you going to use your 1/8th, an 1/8th, the drill bits, all the way in. and then you're going to tighten those small screws that come. so that's how basically the plate looks and the other things you need to do when screwdriver to tighten it up not going because that's can break your head screw screwdriver to do this work for you so nothing is going to break on the way yeah ok alright so we're done with that ok so now what we're going to do, we're bought on small hardware store they don't sell those at home depot yet type of hardware store it's called carbide double cut and it's made to shave really really long time i highly recommend that product now if stuff they sell in home depot as well ok so now I'm going to shave the metal so it won't hurt anything and we're going to use the same tool to going to close the door we're going to without any interruption so that's the type of tool that you want alright so we almost done so we're going to check if the door so we're going to close the door and we so it doesn't go all the way in so we So that's how I'm doing it, I'm using the same tool that I showed you before. We just going to shave a little bit of the wood. Alright, let's check again if the door closed correctly. alright. Now another thing that's come door is for the actual bolt and latch not must, i recommend to do that but because it's not going to let you pull your door closed. It's recommended, it's good because it helped that if will give another reinforcements for the so yes I would recommend to put it on the gap that you have between the door know it's not must but yeah it's all you need to do just take the two the plate there is another holes for two screws on outside and the screws are actually come now you can do the same thing on the and like i said it's not must but it is not nothing happened your door will still be it's not going to be easy to kick your want to talk to you about as an extra screws to reinforce the hinges. Because you know the hinges that come with a new house or even old houses they are very short screws and they are not really reinforcing them the way they should be What I recommend to do, I can show you so what you should really do is buy a 3 inch screws just like the one that's going with the kit You can buy them at Home Depot or any hardware store. And just replacing the ones that are right here. the one that more far from the edge. Just replacing those two with 3 inch screws. So, do the same thing on all the hinges just replacing two there, two here, two in the middle one and two in the bottom. Make sure you drill with an 1/8th drill bit all the way so the wood won't split. it's not, I mean, it's not must, but yes, if you're already doing the strike plate and you invest so much time and effort, I would recommend to do the hinges as well, Just reinforce them with 3 inch screws, that will definitely increase the security for your door and it shouldn't take you more than 5 or 10 minutes. . We didn't do it in that video, but I just wanted to talk about it just to give youyou this information. thank you. Hi guys, thank you so much for watching, I hope you enjoy the video. In my next video we will walk through about the ring video doorbell, a security camera for your front door. Sound interesting, huh? Please don't forget to subscribe to my channel, right here! You get the link, can you see it? Yeah, you can see it, ok. Just click here, Just click here, Yeah, right there. And then you can subscribe to my channel. and every week we gonna update a new video. We're going to talk about how to increase your home security with the you can do it yourself; if i can do it See you in the next video. Don't forget to subscribe.