I've debated doing this when I was pinned down by But there's no way that enemy sniper would've hit that, though. My name's Nicholas Irving. I'm a former US Army Ranger I'm Command Sgt. Maj., I'm Nicholas Moran. My name is Dakata Brodie. Hey, everyone, Jay Ly here. Hi, I'm John Spencer. Gareth Timmins here. I'm a former Royal Marines commando. Today I'm back again to look from TV and film, rate tank battles, urban warfare, desert-warfare scenes, boot-camp scenes, helicopter-rescue scenes, bomb-disposal scenes in movies and TV and Forrest: And always answer &quot;Yes, drill sergeant.&quot; Drill sergeant: Is that clear?! Yes, drill sergeant! The standard for responding is, &quot;Yes, drill sergeant,&quot; and if it has to have then the whole platoon Done, drill sergeant! Jesus H. Christ! This is a new company record. The drill sergeant was so in the early part of training, it's a challenge for somebody who perhaps has not what we would call weapons training, to be able to take that weapon and do what you saw Forrest do there, which was that functions check. What your hope is as is that everybody in there Shrimp and potatoes, shrimp burger. What's funny is when with toothbrushes, that's There was times where, you know, you'd give a recruit scissors They're fostering this environment of working together as a team, which you saw with the weapons training, which is what I call mindless repetition. Just do it over and over and over again until you get it right. That has the same training The approach that the was very, very common during the Vietnam War. So that's about a nine. Pick it up! Move it! Move it! I want to see some fire here! When you look at obstacle courses, usually in boot camp, you'll Obstacle courses are really designed to find your upper-body strength and also determine your endurance, and so it may even test fear of darkness, and then the teamwork, helping each other. You saw that a couple of times in there. And definitely that screaming and yelling. Often we call it simulating Drill sergeant: Create a loop. This is the rabbit hole. The rabbit comes out of his hole. What is interesting is is no longer taught in basic training. It is in Ranger School, though. You're actually tested As things change over time, that the leaders think that people need upon finishing basic training. This is to be your lover, perhaps the only thing in That's one of those things, again, that you get from TV in Hollywood where we place all of this level Now, granted, it is an because you really want to be So taking it apart, putting it together almost to the point where you Talk about it in a way that's kind of a Hollywood Oh, I'm sorry, sergeant. I can't touch a gun. For that time period, being World War II, being a conscientious objector was going to definitely be a challenge for the leadership here. This guy particularly is Desmond Doss. He was actually a Medal and he didn't have to I would definitely say Drill instructor: Can't a few love taps? How the f--- are you when grenades are going off in your face? Unfortunately, what we wind is drill sergeants or DIs like this one that will touch and grab by the throat. That was familiar in other DI movies. Touching recruits in Always has been. Sir, I got lost on the That's exactly why, right there. The open door that I could do even more, and it turns to him slamming and that's why it's unacceptable. Because where do you draw the line? Them paintball bullets, they hurt? Oh, s---! Paintball is something, it was pretty painful. That guy is going to not to put himself in a window And so that's why paintball Simunitions, is kind of what we call it, is very, very useful in Drill sergeant: The sounds are live rounds. You will get the fear out of you. Keep moving! Keep your head down! Yeah, that's a trainer, a sergeant, a leader's worst nightmare, is to have somebody in Shooting the rounds over their head, we actually do that, and but the conditions are totally different. The guns are raised up a whole lot higher, and it's what we call a safe surface zone. So even if you stood up it's almost 20 feet above And, again, this tragedy right here, as unfortunate as it is, it does happen when those things are not adhered to. For a boot-camp movie, Rusty bayonet, Liebgott. Now, thanks to these men every man in the company who This is pretty neat, as the command sergeant For the 2nd Battalion, 506th out of the 101st Airborne. This right here is Easy Company and their preparation for World War II. During that time period in our military, not many people were married, right? And everybody was always looking for a two-day or a three-day pass. The stuff that they're being inspected on, like this parade-level stuff, and they're out there in combat gear, I could see where he's going with trying to instill discipline. Just, I'm sure morale is not going to be too high much longer. Platoon: Stand alone! Stand alone! Sobel: Do not help that man! Do not help that man! We ran this mountain a couple of times. Currahee Mountain. Yeah, it's no joke. What I noticed here though, you know, he was telling them to leave that guy. Not leaving a fallen comrade, that was part of the warrior ethos. And never quitting. So when you tie that together leaving somebody behind would be something that we wouldn't do. That would be a 10 for And for World War II, it'd probably be about a eight in realism. Drill sergeant: &quot;Yes, drill sergeant.&quot; Do I make myself clear? Recruits: Yes, drill sergeant! You get them in the barber they had no hair. Like, that's even part of a The males, anyway, are where they cut it all the way down. Female recruits are not required. And believe it or not, it's a health and hygiene issue, right? Because you get people that and so you don't know necessarily if they have, like, head lice or any other type of issues Cherry: Next we got You just get shots until you and you're completely inoculated against every disease known to man, right? Execute. Drill sergeant: Move, goddamn The difference that I could they have them all in an open room or an open bay. It wouldn't be done that a military entrance processing All military members go through there, and there's no drill sergeants there. It's just a staff of military personnel, administrators, doctors, counselors, because what they're doing whether or not you're fit to train. Cherry: They had us strip and duckwalk the circuit of a big room. Oh, yeah, duckwalking. I remember the first time I did that. I was like, &quot;What in the world?&quot; They have you walk from one and the doctor is looking your musculoskeletal development, if you're flat-footed, also But yeah, you definitely full of other people. Be hard to assess. I would have to say it's Because that's not necessarily how that whole indoctrination process would happen with the drill sergeants. If you survive recruit You will be a minister So far this is looking pretty good. Because in the DIs in the Marine Corps, they actually have a script. They say, &quot;You'll sit up So while the difference in the titles, the drill instructor was Drill sergeants came And the interaction in the is always going to be what Everywhere you look, or drill sergeant that has been given is being reinforced. And so when you see R. Lee he's doing exactly what a DI would do. He actually was a drill He served several years during You maggots understand that? Sir, yes, sir! Bulls---! Can't hear you! Sir, yes, sir! If you notice, the DI and it's not because they it's just so they don't have to repeat the same commands over and over. So if you have a recruit he or she is going to all the way on the other end of the bay. 5-foot-9, I didn't know You trying to squeeze an Another thing that you and TV shows is the DI doing a lot of cursing and swearing. Cursing and swearing is not but it does happen. For that Vietnam era, Now you have people who are and it's a different view. I was part of the committee what we called shock and awe, commonly called a shark attack, as opposed to this fallacy, which was we have to break them down and focus more on the teamwork. And so that's what The 100 Day one, here's a challenge. Pop that blister! Lamont: Mm-hmm. Part of that indoctrination is the wellness of the and so they have to inspect the feet, inspect the hands, and make sure that there's no open sores. What the f--- is that? What is that, Pvt. Pyle? Sir, a jelly doughnut, sir! We've gone away from footlockers and modularized most of So you wouldn't necessarily and he definitely wouldn't be standing on the equipment like that. They have this term in the and that's where they actually so that they can do that inspection. From now on, whenever Pvt. Pyle f---s up, I will not punish him. I will punish all of you! Yep, there we go. Especially in the beginning the DI and the drill sergeant is going to definitely dole out punishment as a mass punishment, even This opportunity for and held Pyle accountable and that's what the DI is reinforcing. We'll hold each other accountable. I would have to say it was probably about a nine for that era. If we're talking in today's terms, it'd probably be about a seven in realism. We are going to win this war When they were standing in formation and the leader stopped and and he looks like a middle-school kid, there was actually a guy named Flaherty. This guy was 4 feet 9 inches, and they called him The Giant Killer because of all the different exploits that he did during Vietnam. And he was smaller than Rogers was, right? Nobody's got that flag in 17 years! Yo, the smallest guy in the formation wound up coming up with In the basic-training environment, you probably wouldn't have placed on a trainee or a recruit. That's some that's going on there where an assessment is being done, right? Because they want to know if What they were actually would not necessarily be something that you would see in recruit training. So I'm going to give it a five. Left! Face! Yeah, that's the campaign hat or the famous drill sergeant hat. I just happen to have mine with me, and, you know, there's by the male drill sergeants in the Army, but then also by the male and What's unique is, while all the branches except the Navy have some the Army still has a separate hat for the female drill sergeant. It's called a bush hat. A-left, a-left, right, left. There she was just Singing do wah diddy That part where the one that diddy bop, it's that's actually where Popular tunes, R&amp;B music, I Even my own voice has in the Gatorade commercial Work, work Hard work So these guys, they're just, you know, jumping in on a bandwagon, in there at the same time. Razzle dazzle! Hut, two, three, four! Hut, two, three, four! Yeah, that ain't happening. However, in the Army, in what we call the advanced which, those periods of to six months, maybe even a year, drill and ceremony to continue to motivate those individuals that have the longer periods of training. But not as likely in a because we're focusing on and treating yourself and I'd have to say a four. Locate a wounded soldier, You must then transport him to There's a lot going on there so far. When it started out, it that you would see in recruit training. You know, a lot of female leaders now are in positions of senior leadership, something that hadn't until the military had the ranks of the infantry An aggressor team will They are all awaiting ranger training and can't wait to capture you. Based on what the information and the instructions they were given, it's actually an advanced You know, medical training. They're not going to be that would go that deep, when I saw them in the river there, because the risk for, you or something else with then not too many people put a recruit in that type of environment. Again, the risk factors that you'd see in recruit training, but definitely something as far as the military's concerned. You know, Marines have a Crucible, and the Army has this Very similar, in the final that they receive during And there are medical lanes a casualty or transport a to really see if all of the training has actually reached the that these individuals can leave and go to their next assignment. I have to give that a Casey Jones was a son of a b---- Casey Jones was a son of a b---- Hazing is something that, but it happens. This is depicting an initial entry training or but it's Officer Candidate School. Typically, officer candidates have either been in the and reached enlisted ranks. There's levels of hazing that may be more acceptable versus in the recruit training. So there was a mandate across all of the branches to come up with progressive ways, if you would, in order to attack and And so whether it was you know, Not in My Squad, not just on leadership, but on each other. No, sir! Drill sergeant: DOR! I ain't gonna quit! Right, then you can forget it! You're out! Don't you do it! There's about two or three so that you don't have that who might take something personal like it looks like in this clip. Because of the flexibility and the things that take place in the versus what happens in recruit training for initial entry training, I would say that it's All right, Shirley, you can drop them now. Weight training has always been something that's important in the military to be able to carry your body weight. And in some cases, you or drag somebody else. The sand buckets and them a lot less expensive than But then they get the same Drill instructor: See the jab? Outside? Right into the body once again. Working with the blade. They were doing combatives, and then the drill instructor was showing them with the because every Marine, every soldier, every person that joins the military is a fighter first, right? And so pugil stick training that that confidence is and their ability to stand their ground. And it's also fun to look at. I would say it's about a seven. Greetings all, I'm Nicholas Moran. I commissioned as an and then converted to M3 Bradleys. These days, I work as a primarily for World of Tanks. The Ripsaw, which was for people to drive around in, looks just like it does in the movie here. It's because it had such lightweight and such a high-powered weight ratio, the thing is incredibly which of course, attracts the well, hang on a second. We've got this vehicle really, really quickly. Can But the variant that the of late is actually a I believe it's the RCVM, as the M5, and on the top, much like is shown in the clip, He's driving on ice, and those Believe it or not, there's more grip on a tracked vehicle on ice. It's anything from snow chains, to these days, you can have grousers that you knock out a few track pads, and you put basically This thing is going quite fast on ice, and that's I can think of no reason why a tank would have a The Lambo at the point basically underwater, and than this thing can haul. Well, that's your point for realism. The door came off instead of I'm going to be generous. I'm going to give it one And I'm going to give it one point because it pulled the door so I'm going to give it a two. So you will have seen the on the back firing the caliber .50. The caliber .50 was originally as an anti-aircraft weapon. And the reason that it's at the back is that it's a if you're standing on the as opposed to trying to stick and maybe put it down from the side and you're not even Shermans! One of the things Sherman was when you needed a tank, and they tended not to go They tended to go around in fives and 17s. Yeah, sure, on a tank-on-tank duel, it wasn't necessarily the best. For an infantryman that's he doesn't care if the best as long as the tank which and b) is good enough to deal with whatever the So you'll notice that the any tanks, which was a in World War II, is that their to the levels of American or Russian. So what we have here are a lot of assault guns and tank destroyers. It looks like a Marder there, of one, a Sturmgeschutz, and a Jagdpanther. The Jagdpanther is the only to an allied vehicle. Why didn't the Jagdpanther its extremely tough frontal Well, you could do that, but then you were probably now to the American infantry, who are equipped in the scene with bazookas, The Germans now are flanked, they immediately abandon the This is as good as you're going to get on celluloid or on digits. If there is ever going to be a 10 for &quot;rate a tank battle,&quot; The tanks represent Saint-Chamond. There's only one that exists in the world. It's at the French national Now, the cognoscenti will look and realize that the vehicle is based off a BMP or an MT-LB, which are By this point in the war, we're talking towards the end of 1918, the with tanks, but you'll still for a couple of reasons. One is if the tanks are well, you're going to have and maybe suppress them to the point that the tanks are going Secondly, the tanks were not There was a problem known once the tankers would actually in front of their face with of bullet coming in the gaps in the armor. Finally, it's psychological. It makes you feel a lot better even if it's a gesture of futility. The early tank guns for generally either been or, quite often, naval guns. The big problem you're going to have with getting them close So there is a stop as to how and that determines how close you can get to the enemy trench before you To this date, trench-crossing how many meters of still a criterion. The idea of can you cross well, that depends if you So even as late as the Iraq campaigns, a tank would go up to turn on the spot, and And it's one of those unfortunate tanks have many ways of killing you, and the tracks are one of them. You'd think today a hand grenade The tracks on the for my whole tractor, so as a modern vehicle would be. In fact, the armor on of heavy bullets, they even with an armor-piercing core could go through these early tanks. This is an eight and a half, maybe nine. I could quibble a few things, but it generally gets the concept across. Oh, goody. So Rambo has gotten into his, It's not actually, but the helicopter here represents a Hind. I think it's actually the Mi-24, was a gunship a troop-carrying capacity, of rockets and missiles It's basically a flying tank, So hang on, is he There's only one tank that I can think of that is fully combat-capable and that is the Swedish Strv 103, commonly known as the S-tank. The driver functions and this is why you're supposed to go with anti-aircraft vehicles because their job is to defend So our enemy is in an attack and it's got missiles on the that are effective from And instead, he's firing unguided rockets at the front of the Rambo tank. Why doesn't he just fly the rockets into the engine or you know, some place And so the enemy pilot dies the death that his stupidity deserved. Officially, if you must do it at an angle. He has to not only aim for lead, but also the change in Whereas if you're you're simplifying the problem for the aircraft that's coming at you. He doesn't need to worry about aiming. It has a tank, so I'll give it a one. Fire. The premise of an ambush in an urban setting by but the idea of armor without infantry support Panthers are not well suited They really would excel well, the steppes of Ukraine, for example, nice long lines of fire. That said, they can get because they know that with no infantry. Oh look, you're going except this time he's He's got the turret I'd mentioned before, you don't want to go through a building if you can avoid it. In this case, I guess they couldn't, because they're getting shot at. And if you are going to go and you'll keep yourself safe. And what you can see here, the T-34-85 has a very so it performs two functions. In this case, you can see cranking around, as which, you simply flip However, maybe the gunner because in the movie, Even myself, when I got into and trying to see where is I can't find it. This is quite feasible. When faced with the Panther T-34 crew now has a choice. It can either run away, or Now, I would probably agree with the 34 crew on this for two reasons. One, the Panther was looking And the other thing is Panthers in the world to kill, unless you can get around And in this case, they're so why not engage? But the only thing I might have two or three tank lengths and aim the gun into the engine deck. That would be a more guaranteed kill than trying to aim for the turret ring. So the explosion was than what would really happen. Generally speaking, when a of seconds, and those are that is the difference when you're getting out of a vehicle. Although in reality, the to the crew is academic. They're basically toast. In this context, I don't The movie is set about the It's actually kind of still ongoing. The film was made in Morocco, hence, you have the M60s and of the tanks that you get in but hey, for movie purposes, Certainly there are Western Tank Alpha, attack from the right! Hong Xu! Turn 20 degrees left, hurry! So what I have here is a VIC-1 CVC, combat And the reason you would even if you're inside you're being thrown around, and there's a lot of sharp, that as you're being thrown around, you don't want to hurt your head. And of course, you also because the tanks are throwing You don't have a windshield. If you're doing 40 miles an hour, there's still enough so you wear a set of goggles, as well. It's good to see armor actually work. So what has happened there is a round hit explosive reactive armor. So and what they generally consist of, though this is a gross oversimplification, is a couple of pieces of metal sandwiching a piece of explosive, and it explodes and disrupt or destabilize it to the extent that the main Turn right! Nan Xia, get ready! Fire! You got a couple of problems. Firstly, if the entire then the tank is still It may not look it much, but that he cannot hip-shoot like a tank like that. Secondly, he literally is hip-shooting, and he's eyeballing it. I don't see why he couldn't He can then pull the trigger himself. Sandstorms do happen. In the 2003 invasion that basically shut down the Well, your big problem with a So the sand is going to and clog them up very quickly. However, in this context, a heck of a lot of choice, by a platoon of M60s, they were probably going to die anyway, so why not make for the So I think seven's probably fair. I'm not even sure where to start. I'm trying to think of any that this vehicle could exist in. The US Army has a vehicle, the of the old LAV-100s from Vietnam. It's basically a huge, armored 4-by-4 with a gun turret on the I'm sure they wouldn't So generally speaking, convoys, of roads, you tend to be in like in the shot here. You have a bit of a choice, you have, is how far apart Because the idea is that to be sufficiently far in that you're protecting the So with only three vehicles, as to what you can do, but maybe two up front, then the main asset, and then one bringing up the rear. Cannons are not common, You can sometimes find on tanks as well, but of space and weight, so you In terms of a missile launcher, yeah, missile launchers on This particular elevating probably closer to a but that's actually for not anti-aircraft. But hey, I guess when anything goes. I got nothing. Zero. Sorry. No. The Germans appear to be It was a very good anti-tank definitely a valid threat against an M4. Anti-tank! H.E.! Traverse left. Traverse left! That was a doctrinal fire command. Now, the reason I know this the script for filming alert, target, and command of execution in abbreviated fire command. The fire commands back in as regimented as they are today, but the fundamentals are You have an argument. over open ground as a whole platoon, or do you want to bound in sections? In this case, because of that they're trying to provide cover for, I can see perhaps why they But also, it's a very, so maybe it was necessary to advance on line simply so Another gun, who's got eyes on it? Somebody's going to ask, at such short range? You'll be surprised what So there have been of the 88 is such that it doesn't miss. In reality, they're firing 20 because the stress of combat calm and collected on a gunnery range when you're doing scientific testing. It's, &quot;Oh God, I'm about to die.&quot; Let's light them up. Let's Now, that scene is basically A line of tanks, every machine gun going. A single tank is considered more or less equivalent because you have the you got a co-ax machine gun, and oh, by the way, you've got a cannon. That is a lot of firepower and you can imagine this sheer suppression and psychological effect let alone the lethal effects. I know there were folks that didn't like that I gave the last &quot;Fury&quot; a nine, but I'm giving this one a nine as well. I can't get elevation and he knows it. So this was an actual and it's a mountainous which were designed on the plains of Germany, So what the Soviets ended a variant of the ZSU-23-4 the Shilka, called the Afghani. So they would use those in conjunction with the tanks to provide that close-range, high-elevation security that Daskal here is having a problem with. The actual effect of hitting the petaling like you see What you're actually going that goes through the gun tube, but it's still plenty bad enough that you've disabled the gun. The grenade will not have so I must conclude it was the rocks, but it's not impossible for rocky terrain and maybe a less experienced in such a way when he's turning in between the wheels and the and that throws your track and loses it. This scene is probably My name's Nicholas Irving. I'm a former US Army Ranger I'm also known as The Reaper for my 33 confirmed kills in Afghanistan. Eve: I may have a shot. Absolutely not. She's offhand. Like, there's no support. It's all muscling it in to make that shot. And that gun, well, yeah, that's, no. The Olympic Arms K23B is what it is. That weapon is literally accurate for up to, like, 50 meters. That distance looks like it's about, at most, a couple of hundred yards. Put it back in the case and go It's not clean. Repeat, I do not have a clean shot. Yeah I don't think she In the military a clean shot would be, you're not going to something you don't intend to. If her target is one of those two men, that bullet, you know, it's a 5.56. It's going to zip right and potentially wound or kill the guy she's trying to help out or save. M: I said take the shot. I can't. I may hit Bond. Take the bloody shot! If I was forced to take this but I'm not going to Luckily the train does as opposed to moving left or right. That takes out so much behind making a shot. When it's moving closer or away from you, it's all about just or a little bit below the target, as opposed to, you know, and having that individual I would rate it a one. Like, it's just not happening at all. That little good tactical before the shot was really good. To be more precise, you and one of the easiest right before a shot is and get the blood circulating. I would've got more as opposed to having my legs Maybe got down in a squatting and kind of put my weight behind the gun. That way when it recoils it's kind of more of and not this motion. He's going to pretty much get that just because of his body alignment and the way he's holding the rifle. Mike: There you go. Yeah, I think it was smart for him to let the vehicle get closer to him. Everybody thinks being a sniper, we want the longest, furthest shots, but ideally, you want the closer ones just because it makes and it's almost like 100% But with that, if I'm protecting someone and I shoot the vehicle the guy is still going to get I don't like that the car like, 20 feet from the guy. Like, that's not how that works at all. The only moving vehicles that I've shot, I was a machine gunner. And I've never once made a car flip over. Normally they just crash into a wall or crash into another parked car or just roll off the side I'd give it a six. The only thing that's pulling me back or giving it a lesser number waiting for the car to get closer. I mean, as far as being a concealed as a flute, I don't think so. There's a lot of big that makes it accurate, but and most barrels on sniper There's no interference between the barrel and the stock of the gun, as to not interfere with the That flute looks like one It probably is accurate, maybe at the distances but I also don't know what But it's Tom Cruise, so it's I'd give the female Whatever she's in, that little room or the I think that really and it almost is like It's like a tactic snipers used overseas where you punch a small hole and a sniper would back away from the wall and shoot through that hole The guy with the shades on, well, he's not really but I guess he's using his attire to make him least stand out. Worst position, I'd Any sniper rifle can be suppressed, even up to, like, You're still going to hear a noise. It sounds like a clap, a loud clap, or if you took a ruler Unless you use, like, subsonic rounds, which he may be using in this instance, where I could see nobody else Shooting lights are actually Like, that was one of our When an assault team is they want the lights shot out for them to make it dark, and that's, because it blurs out everything, and it's hard to find exactly, I guess, where the middle is at. I'll give it a five. Those shots are, you know, possible, but I don't think that this scenario, setup is that realistic. I grew up watching this movie. It's one of the reasons why Every sniper, you have your rifle and you have your ghillie suit. What it essentially does of the human body and mimics brush or foliage. But it's not just the ghillie suit that's what makes you camouflage. What you're going to really want to do is put a bunch of natural so you look more like as opposed to just this Sniper: Three to five on the legs. You have the spotter The spotter's the one who's and he's holding up a, or Through his, it looked or something like that, and that's just not what it looks like. Either you're going to have a reticle that mimics or is similar These mil dots or radian give you your distance and be able to track He's moving. Sniper: 650. Range me. Being a sniper, like, is observation. It's actually really rare that a sniper does get a Most of our stuff is just watching stuff, taking pictures, and telling the commanders So you can be out there for I think everything he Looks like he's using an or something similar to that, a variant, but they're good out to, like, 800 meters. At 650 yards, like, that's not, that's far, but it's not And a body shot, which is was perfect. Like, that's all you're going My only issue, would underneath his rifle, or his backpack or That helps with the harmonics and get all the way from you. I'll give it a seven. I was but a seven because the sniper scope and the reticles and all that stuff just didn't make any sense. To stay still when you're it's almost a death wish. It's just a matter of figure something out to Running zigzag patterns, getting out as fast as you To prevent an enemy coming in to do what just happened in sniper school they teach you no more than, like, two shots. Two or three shots, your You would want to move Once you have a good sniper hide set up, the odds of you getting third shot, it's slim. But there are countermeasures from entering that sniper hide. Like, for us, we might put up or something like that behind us, or even a guy with a machine gun is usually watching our back. That actually wasn't too bad, and it's at nighttime so I'll give him that. We hit targets at nighttime, but the distances are extremely close. We had a sniper scope that was mounted with a PVS-14, I believe, which is a night-vision attachment that goes on the front of your scope. Bolt guns, bolt rifles, especially in dusty conditions. That bolt gun, when you pull it back, it's exposed to the elements. And it's such a slower process as opposed to, like, a semiautomatic, where the bolt is coming So it's more prone to collect dust and things of that nature Man, this is getting tough. I don't know. I'd give it a six because, realistically, shooting I could see you missing that much. I've debated doing this when I was pinned down by taking my helmet off. If that's your last resort is locate a sniper's position, I would've probably stuck my helmet up on the tip of my gun and dangled I might need that for later. But there's no way that enemy sniper would've hit that, though. Like, back in World War II, snipers used to use the trees and there really is no Once they find you out, center all their guns onto Hiding underneath the tree where some of them get But I'm scared of bugs, As far as taking the shot when he took it, nine times out of 10, if it's to overwatch his guys and make sure nothing happens to them. But if we're already engaged in targets and we're already being shot at, then anything that's that is a threat or has a So, yeah, he had every right to pop a few rounds off at this guy. I would have too. I'd give it a nine, just because I've been in taking my helmet off Isaac: I don't f---ing know! So, I was an on-set tech and also played the dead guy that he got the radio from. Should've won an award for it. Best dead guy ever. But that sand was real. We were really in the It's extremely hard to aim through, we call it a brownout, where it's just, like, a semi, that rose, so you can't see anything. So he's definitely not going especially at the distances with that much dust blowing Isaac: Give me max plus four! Six mils right! I'm not going to say it's impossible to take out an enemy sniper who's hiding among stuff like that. The hardest thing the good sniper is going to have to do is locate him. From what I remember, I recall it being over 1,000 meters away, which is extremely, extremely far to be conducting a The sound of the rifle in the movie is not how Like, this sounds like with a suppressor on it In real life, that gun is a big bang. The way he was shooting in the movie, it's kind of like it's a semiautomatic, as opposed to him cranking and the sound is off. Did you get him? Please tell me you got him -- Yeah, he was dead from the get-go. Like, shooting in an open area and a sniper has eyes on you, there's really nothing you can do about it unless you are going to get up and just take a chance and run for it. Just crawling away slowly wouldn't work. He's just going to watch you crawl and decide when to shoot anyways. So it's a lose-lose. This scene here, I don't so [laughs]. No, I only have so much control, but this scene I would rate, like, a ... oh my, I'm doing this to myself. I'm going to give it a five. I don't know if I would be through the windshield Bullets act funny when they hit objects, and the first object that bullet is going to hit is that glass, and because it's curved, it's going to deflect the bullet There's really no determining factor as to where that bullet's So one shot, one kill for not so much. From underneath the car, that's actually a good thing to do. I've shot from underneath various vehicles and structures and stuff like that. Especially in an urban environment, you're going to encounter so much debris and rubble on the battlefield so you have to make do with what you have. The only issue was her hand Like, she already has the bipods. I don't see a need to have her hand underneath it supporting it as well. It's just extra weight I would've probably had or holding the buttstock as opposed to that. During sniper school, call in an airstrike when because it's really tough to I believe she's shooting, which is well within the capabilities of taking out a target at that distance. The odds of it being dead would've meant that she would've had to know that distance ahead of time and kind of dial in her scope for that. Instead, she just stuck it on there and pulled the trigger on the head. It's not really like that. But other than that, I Given the circumstances, I would've probably done the same thing. But I'd give it an eight. She looked really calm behind it. And some of the best Ooh. Yeah, so this movie is based Ms. Pavlichenko. She was credited with over 309 kills, and as far as putting that bullet through the tank I've only aimed at a tank one and I was quickly reminded, when they pointed the big cannon my way. She went into her bubble. Carlos Hathcock, a Marine Corps sniper, called it getting into his bubble. That's what she's doing and explosions are going off around her, is getting into that bubble. Being able to shut that and calming down and ignoring everything to pull off a shot. I can relate to that 110%. No. So, bullets don't travel They travel at an arc, even at 100 yards. So to win that battle, causing the bullet to go up and hit its apex point and fall back down. All snipers are just like He's throwing it up and they're and bullets work the same exact way. Because it was based on a true story, I'll give it a nine, not a 10 just because Females, women make the New shot. Team: Abandon selective targeting. All targets are now free. The distances he's shooting Here it looks like he's maybe at most 150, 100 yards away. Less than that, because so less than 50 yards possibly. The scope is not bad either. I'm used to mil-dot scopes and Horus reticles, and they look like busy Christmas trees without the lights on It was a very simple reticle. Shooting in a crowded During the International Sniper that was one of the challenges, was to shoot moving It's extremely hard to do, but our distances were way further than what he appears to be At the angles he was it's not that complicated. Just worrying about where after you hit your target Because they're in so close he has a possibility of getting hit too. I would give it a solid eight. It's highly realistic. The scopes are always messed up. I don't understand why they just don't put a real So, this is a actual spotting scope, similar to what the individual or the sniper's using in the movie. And he's using it pretty correctly, like, he's using it for target detection, to identify where a threat may be. He noticed a little bullet and then, you know, finding things that were out of place, that didn't make sense, and eventually finding It's something you see rare in movies, the actual use of target detection and how important it is for a sniper to find the smallest details and things that are out of place to find who they're looking for. What you want to do is be and not put the barrel Gives your position away and of why you made that I'll give it a seven. I love the use of target detection, but he messed up putting Hey, everyone, Jay Ly here. 13-year Navy explosive Did four combat deployments, three to Afghanistan That thing is apparently Can I say 100% that this No, because it might, but what I do know is there are probably a dozen other ways to attack this device from inside the bus. I mean, something rudimentary as getting a stick with some film, so we can take an X-ray of the device so we can actually see what's going on. Harry: Jack, I'm going to Harry, it's covered. He is talking on a radio and/or a phone right next to this thing. It's electronically initiated. They don't know if that energy will cause that device to fire or not. So that whole thing is I can't bypass! It'll fire. S---, it's a collapsible circuit. Yeah, collapsing circuits are real. There's two or more detonators, and when you cut one, It's common for us to train to that. It's very unlikely to encounter that. In, well, at least in we didn't encounter a lot It was mainly pressure Very simple circuits. Officer: Howard Payne, Jack, I want you to get We're going to go after the source. No, they should 100% do and not just solely rely on There are tools we have to disrupt an IED and a component, so it'll disrupt the firing train. It'll disrupt all the circuitry and separate components remotely, and then we'll go down, and then separate components Jack, I believe he is a bomb-disposal officer with the LAPD. He should know these and be able to identify or at least have a good idea of it. This definitely gets a zero and he should have taken an action. He should have brought a He could have taped it right next to it and disrupted that We got under three minutes Pressure sensors. I If I get up, my car explodes. This is already hokey because he sat down, and now it's armed. And there's a timer. In movies and TV, they often where it's counting But in all reality, it's mainly a safe-and-arm-type mechanism. If I'm a bomb emplacer, I and then safely get away. So there's a timer, but you're not going to It's like, &quot;You have five Orange, yellow, green. Colors don't matter. What which one is hot to the touch. The warm wire versus cold wires, you can make a circuit so none of the wires are warm. So, like, the movie or the colors of the I can go to Home Depot, Lowe's, your hardware store of choice, get any color wire I Take the small box out of That kit probably looked like something I would pull tools from in a special-operations-forces From my experience in Afghanistan, it was all special operations forces or naval special warfare. We flew in helicopters somewhere, landed, and ran to a target, right, or walked a great distance You really want to limit So, yeah, we're not going briefcases and backpacks Just cut it in the middle. The orange wire between the two clamps. I don't want to get into because that is how we But yeah, those clamps, they're for a very specific and you would need another to do diagnostic work You would need a little bit more time, I mean, a lot more training &quot;Oh, yeah, clamp it on the warm wire and then cut in between it.&quot; There's a lot of testing you have to do before you can cut a wire. But yeah, the whole setting, arming it, and then to render it safe, yeah, you wish. So yeah, we'll give him a How it was set up and how it He had a Claymore. He put it on top of the Grand Claymores are used all They're premade to be That's what they're for. So put something that he thought one of these people chasing There are 100% bomb-detection dogs, and in this clip, those dogs, I believe, are going for human detection. They're going for sniffing out Rambo, not necessarily sniff out And even if they were, those That's like essentially a hot dog in the corner while like hyperventilating essentially. It's never going to happen. Would the blast wave be that extended? I mean, it was drawn The explosive component They added aluminum into the to extend the blast. But with that being said, that is just kind of continuing to go out. It would be really big and done. That blast wave would've Not John Rambo. The explosive component It's about 50% stronger than Frag goes exponentially So yeah, he is definitely within that. This is probably the most realistic clip as far as how things function Man, I might give &quot;Rambo&quot; an eight. He's knocked two because of survival. That's hokey at best, even for John Rambo. I got it! It's a cylinder cipher! D-U-N-N. It's my last name. It knows who I am. If someone is just going to make an improvised nuclear anything is possible. There's many ways that Can't get into any specifics. There's state-sponsored, and then there's non-state-sponsored. State-sponsored are going to have all kinds of different protocols in place, safeties, what have you, arming sequences. Non-state-sponsored, if someone is just going to make an improvised nuclear device like this cipher, it can be when my voice, whatever the case may be. Benji: I speak without a mouth. I fly through the air An echo. That's it! That's it, that's it. Ugh. I can't. I can't even with this one. This is ... he's talking to it. How does he know if he it's not going to go off? It's empty. Apparently it was a mud suck, right? A hoax IED or a hoax device. In real life, hoaxes are actually especially in Iraq and Afghanistan. They were utilized as intelligence-gathering They'd put it in the road. Totally fake. Just something that would and then they would be watching and videotaping the whole procedure. Despite all of the craziness using a hoax to gather and to learn more about We'll give this one a eight, Oh, God. We would clown this movie Like, we would just and just do the most outlandish s--- because that's exactly what he did. He's attacking a VBIED, which is a vehicle-borne Walking up to a VBIED without a tool, an explosive tool, an not even a pole line or anything is just dumb. He went downrange in a I mean, cool. They would probably send a robot down with a tool first, right? Especially because yeah, A VBIED is no joke. I mean, even the guys on the they'd probably die if What the hell is he doing? Dead. Dead. He could have died a half in this clip alone. Not to mention the whole movie. Kicking it, randomly opening the hood by hand, yanking random wires underneath the hood. Like, any one of those could Yeah, I think he removed his headset. Please put your headset back on. The most realistic thing in He actually took his headset and get his thought process going. And then when they asked yeah, that's probably the from an EOD tech. We definitely render safe IEDs by hand. I've done it, and it's not ideal. We want to go as remote as possible because of the risk of But yeah, he could have done like cut that cord, detonating cord right out of the gate. I forgot how many 155s, but that's what was in once he saw the main charge, and that's what he should Just reckless abandon. Yeah, it's totally Hollywooded up. The only realistic thing was He gets a one. One out of 10. Three miles underwater, the water's crystal clear, no, there's no way. My fourth team, I was on a but it was underwater sea mines and underwater IEDs and stuff like that. This is supposed to be a nuke that has fallen into the abyss. It's a big deal when we go We're definitely not going to There's always descent lines. We establish a safe area. Yeah, he doesn't have any He just has his eyeballs and And that's just the diving aspect, so we haven't even gotten Hiram: He made it. Oh, my God. We'll go step by step. The communication is totally wazoo. It's three miles underwater. What RF signal can penetrate three miles' worth of water? We do have very rudimentary i.e., a float on the top of the water that's connected to us via a and the certain number of So we communicate like that in a bottom-line-centric environment where we're taking seismic But yeah, nuke, that is a You have to cut the ground Without getting into any super specifics on nuclear-weapons design, we would've researched this ordnance item: this is exactly how you render it safe, if we want to separate components, separate the fuse from it. Sometimes we do that explosively, sometimes we do it mechanically, and then we'd just raise it and exploit it on the surface. I'd have to give that a big a zero, because that's not at all how nuclear weapons function. Here! McIntyre, can you hear me? I love this show. It's so funny. Unexploded ordnance, UXO. Those are very common because and it's still a threat because we just don't Why did it not go off? Is it a time? Is it a proximity thing? Is it a delay that just So, very much a concern, less so for everyone but mainly for the guys Heartbeat's regular. [hissing] You spring a leak? It stopped ticking. It is definitely plausible to examine a suspected clockwork fuse. Seems hokey, but yeah, It was a thing. For old bombs like that, they had clockwork mechanisms in the fuse that you could hear ticking down. We don't see that a lot anymore. That was a lot of training in school, just to get the exposure to it. It's a propaganda bomb! Leaflets are definitely employed. They were dropped in all over Europe during World War II. They were employed in, I Leaflets are definitely a or even just a means to that just is confined to an area. But yeah, I'd give it a Granted, two random people but yeah, so we've gotta I just don't know why they didn't have any bomb-squad people. So, on the side of the timer, there should be a serial number. That'll tell me which &quot;Archer&quot; here is showing being coached through this whole ordeal, like many other movies and TV shows. It would be almost impossible exactly how the manufacturer If that's the case, totally doable, right? I can walk you through how many wires are there, You ready? Lana: God dammit, Archer! First letter is B. Bravo. Thanks. Second letter is -- M as in Mike? Oh, my God, that is so spot especially when s---'s hitting the fan. Oh, I can relate. You have radio frequencies, you have distance, you have so your signal can be degraded. Everyone is getting but in real life, when stuff is going on and comms are an issue, and cool and collected on the radio. That way, even if it is a weak signal, you can still hear what's being said. Archer: I'm doing it, God! Lana: Oh, my God. Ray! The timer sped up! The trope here with the and speeding up the because it makes no sense to unless you're trying to and in real life, trust me, if you're faced with a live explosive that can detonate at any action, keeping that at bay is already So yeah, at the end of the day, people want their things to go off. So that's how they make them. I'll give them a four. The communication piece, that Bombs aren't on the same fire line. I have to defuse them individually. How long is that going to take? I gotta find them and then There's just, like, a chunk of high explosive taped to a pipe. EOD would see that and, and everyone would get out of there except for one other person, him and one other security person, and then I'm going to take And immediate is immediate. He was using a mirror for whatever reason. I'm not going to use an inspection mirror when I have my eyeballs and I So yeah, that's kind of hokey. He's got NODs on his helmet, especially when he's working on that one that was at head level. and if there's an anti-move He just functioned it, as designed. So I would take my helmet no obstructions that could If he's the only one there, yeah, that's what he's got to do. It's because it's threat assessment of what's going to kill me right now. That's an enemy combatant. He's probably going to So that needs to be taken care of first. But yeah, he would have at least one shooter with so when I'm working, I They could've classed it up Bingo. He did use ceramic scissors at the end. I thought that was a nice touch. Granted, he used ceramic scissors and typically when wires there's two of them, and he cut them both. He could have smooshed the two wires that are conductive Yeah, there's a lot of hokey stuff. So yeah, it's gotta be low. Low three. Towards the general The robot rarely finds They're in Helmand, which, Helmand Province in Afghanistan. And yeah, robots are awesome. I didn't see the robot Tool in, tool out, that's what we do. That's what's preached The robot has cutters it can separate components, And so if it did find something, or they could set it down. No! At the end of the day, that They're expendable devices. If worst comes to worst, they find something by functioning it, it blows up, not a human being. The entire team was standing That's totally not what would happen. They would be inside their That way, you have mitigation from fragmentation coming at you. At least be behind the I need you to keep your head still. Don't nod. This is a clothespin switch. Very old and very rudimentary, Nick, the EOD operator, He identified that it's Just cut it and be done with it. But he did the thing of holding his head. You tell someone that with a bunch of explosives, That's one of the rare times where you can actually attack a switch. It's a very clear cut. That could have been and then everyone would've survived. It's tough. A lot of EOD are written in blood, just like this. The survivors are like, OK, this is exactly what they encountered. Over the radio, this is what was said. Now we have our new set of TTPs so it doesn't happen again. I'll give this one of some super-hokey stuff, John: What are you doing? Batman: I can get it out over the bay. The plausibility of having a bomb that is unable to be rendered safe, it's all a matter of time, really. If time is not an object, then yeah, you can spend and really get it disassembled So now you have to weigh, can I render this safe in a And the answer's probably no, right? Because especially with a device as sophisticated as your best case is you have a minute and 30 to get this as far away Yeah, water has a great tamping effect because it cannot compress. It really depends on what the nuclear yield of this bomb was and how deep it was able to go. The mission of EOD is protection So yeah, getting that device relocating it, even if is what we would do for the sake of protecting Is it a nine? Can Batman be a nine? I'll give it a nine. I like to think his actions were genuine of Navy EOD. Hey, my name is Dakata Brodie. I'm a 21-year military veteran. I served 13 years in the US Coast Guard as a search-and-rescue-helicopter pilot and eight years in the Army as a UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter pilot. All right. Tuck them in, boys. For the Coast Guard, primarily, we face offshore and going off shores to effect most of our rescues. However, the Coast Guard does train for vertical-surface rescues, which is what you're seeing right here. Cliffside, cliff rescues, Just stay perfectly still. I Hurry! Rescuer: Car secured. All right. If that is the hoist hook, you are in what you call Every helo pilot would be knowing that the hoist hook that could fall off. Not happening. We're not Joby, I'm coming down. Harrison, you're flying. So, a pilot going to the back seat? First of all, you know how You could literally turn The fact that your vest and you could flip things off. We actually had a person sitting on top of their head and actually hit one of the engines and knock an engine offline with that. So, yeah, it's very possible to actually turn off just climbing and trying to Pilot: Out the door. Natalie, don't you worry. I'm If I am outside the helicopter, we have a real bad problem. As a pilot, I am never outside. I got you! Cut it! Joby, swing! They were trying to show, like, the hoist was holding the truck up, right? The hoist that you have So it's not your primary At that point that it was Now, there is a squib that to actually cut and which is what they were So somehow they sheared the one cable, and The Rock and the other I don't know what that is. I'll say that our helicopter has one cable that we're going to operate with. Once that cable gets sheared, everything is going down with it. It's not going to happen on this clip. This right here is a zero. Pilot: Where are they? Tanker's on the way. Air Force rescue 231. I don't know why nobody wears NVGs. Everybody has NVGs on, in the helicopters. Nobody wears them. If you have the option of having them on, yeah, you're going to have them on. The fuel probe that you just saw, that's not a standard piece There's just certain helicopters that are either doing Most helicopters do not have that. Pilot: No! Your biggest thing at where's that tube that's if you're going to cut that you're talking about damage You'd be in a bad spot at that point. Looking right now at a lightning strike. Knock on wood and thank God You risk frying a lot of electronics, engine-control systems that are on there. You're hoping that your You would probably lose AC and DC systems inside the helicopter, but you should be able to keep flying unless you got hit in the Every year, the Coast Guard has to do what's called dunker training. So we get flipped over which simulates having to ditch. You're rolled upside down. You have to do multiple different egresses to show that you have the proficiency to be able to get out of Every single year, and unless they've changed you would go to actual school, where you go through the of a device going in and rolling over. So this is a part of the business. He's got SEAs bottle or HEEDs bottle, which gives you about two to In that mode right there, you if they're breathing the But the pure shock of going in and the water temperature itself is going to take the breath out of you. But I do like the realistic aspect of seeing somebody grab that SEAs bottle and put that thing in their mouth. Now, for everybody that flies, we have emergency jettison handles. So the normal exits are no longer going to get you out of the door. It's too much pressure that's So you're literally hitting like it's blowing cartridges, It just is lifting up the out of the way so you can create that full opening at that point. Anybody's going for that, I'd give this one probably about a six. You can lower me down. I'll get the two men. You return and pick us up on my signal. The theatrics on there is amazing. They had no business being that close to a rig that's exploding. So, we've done multiple I was stationed at before. So, flying out to rigs, rigs typically have burn-offs happening, but there's always either gases or stuff like that that's coming off. So the rigs all have more of for the rig workers to be able to get out and be able to get off of the rigs, and then we would effect the To try to go into there again, and it's so much risk shrapnel going through You're just now a victim. You're not going to put yourself or the crew in that situation. Rescuer: Count five. Five. Any standard deployment they're just going down. At that point, you just of the rescue swimmer. Especially when you're deploying somebody either to a boat that's underway, you'll have them down, you'll have them just off But to say that you were through a flame, a blowtorch in essence, not gonna happen. Rescuer: One! When somebody is on the cable, the hook is actually locked to where it could inadvertently come open. For somebody to pirouette and unhook themself off of the cable at the same time, that's pretty amazing. Nobody would be that crazy to even attempt to put The rescue swimmer would come up and slap everybody in the helicopter for even putting them down So absolutely not. It's completely Pilot: Swimmers away! When he jumps from the helicopter, that's a free-fall deployment That is reserved for daytime only, so we would've only hoisted at that point, not let him They're seeing, like, 20-foot That means the helicopter is hovering at least 30 to 40 feet. You misjudge that swell, that's That water turns into a solid real quick, especially if that was cold temperatures. I have the ready-for-pickup signal. Basket is going out of the cabin door. Basket is in the water. It's a standard rescue basket. He's calling for the basket, That's exactly what you would hear, because we're standing by, keeping our light in the kind of making sure we And as they're getting ready, you're going to try to place the device really within about once they're calling for it. So very, very real. Pilot: How we looking on fuel there? Crew: Bingo, we're at bingo. Gotta go. We're out of time. We gotta go, Carl. That &quot;bingo&quot; fuel, that's a real term. It just means if you leave now, you will land with a fuel reserve when you get back at your station. Anything that's less than there, you can be at risk of either not making it to your destination or It's always a race against Go, go! Behind you! Hurry! When you're seeing the winds, that rotor wash, it's beating down on you, it's a mini hurricane underneath it. There is no communicating at that point in time. That would be insane to think that you're going to hear a person, a swimmer in the water Not gonna happen on there. Holy s---! We lost our tail rotor! The waves out there, that's where I believe that 20-, 30-foot seas, and even but you try to be above that. The explosion, that's the Hollywood part. I've seen helicopters crash on and I haven't seen one explode. Even in the Army, I saw one take a SA-7 and hit the engine out. That was the only one I would give it a seven. It's the Coast Guard. They must have picked Pilot: Swimmers ready. Deploy swimmers. So far right now, you're a legitimate helicopter rescue. It's daytime. You can free-fall Their altitude was good, where the swimmer could safely go out. The swimmer's going to have They're not going to They go in the water, they're So they're going down. They're going to cover as they're going in. The device going down and being placed about five feet from them in the water, that's just textbook Coast Guard rescue-swimmer operations on there. When you have baywatch, that's really the LA They're aka baywatch here We hoist with them routinely. The rescue swimmer could easily just bring them over to the vessel. The fire department, they're Primarily, you're going with the least-risky rescue method, which would be to put them on the boat, unless they had sustained something else that they needed immediate transport, bring them in a helicopter and transport them to But the rescue in itself, for what you could see if you're going to free-fall It's a nine, just because had his goggles and I love the precision flying of that. This is the MH-68 or AW109, the Stingray. Really what you'll call for HITRON, which is our helicopters It's a specialized unit that we have that primarily their focus is or anything else like that Mostly dealing with drug smuggling, what you'll call a go-fast. It'll typically outrun a boat. Your normal cruise is somewhere around the 120 to 130, 130 knots, if you really got a good Watch out, he's got a weapon on board. Bail out! Bail out! I've never been at HITRON. I did fly airborne use of A lot of times what you're trying to do is we're going to try to stay outside of what they have on board of there and make sure we can at least maximize the use of our weapons systems. Coast Guard, take them down. They went for the kill shots right there. So, normally they're going to probably put some stitches in the water. They say &quot;stitches in the it looks like stitches from That's kind of just to escalate the level of the use of force at that point before they try to shoot the engines out and really are more so trying That's primarily what they're doing, yeah, is disabling the vessel. So I'd give them about a seven. At any point in time you're committed, you have something that's attached to something that can pull you down, that's just the worst situation So you're just at the mercy and just completely helpless. Wet, slippery hand conditions, trying to hold on to a and the amount of rotor wash. It's a mini hurricane down there. So you're holding on So I'm pretty sure you're almost probably bear-hugging the ladder at any point just to try to maintain your grip. We're going to stall! Cut it now! Mercenary: We have a job! Pilot: We're going to They were actually doing for saying get rid of it. That's a tough call. It sounds easy to watch but that is a really Even when we're getting ready to start any hoist and rescues, you'll say 'shear' three or the flight mech, you It was an eight for how dynamic The stretcher. We call it a litter. Anytime we're going to use a litter, we're going to use a trail because that flat plane with all the rotor wash that's down below will really have a good propensity to have somebody start I'm not sure what was causing He's got the whole ship to Power really wasn't an issue. It almost looked like they feel like it was somehow taking I don't know. Having a fouled cable or watching a cable actually birdcage, That can happen, so it could You can't let out some I don't understand why the I'm not sure. At this point, what's got a hold of them is some good bait that's for whatever is eating on them. So there's no need to take Shear, shear, shear. We'll have to preserve the There's nothing else you could do. This is more of a three. Please don't shoot the We see the flare in If the flare gets on the raft, It's, like, a phosphor material, so you're shooting hot phosphorus at the thing that's trying to rescue you. You're trying to take us down with you at that point in time. The flare is meant to be We just want to see the flare go up and then find the point of origin so we can come and effect the rescue. A lot of times, if we're going out, it's more likely just one helicopter. I'm not saying you can't have two. If it's a longshore rescue as well, there's a fixed wing asset overhead that will probably go out and do really good radar sweeps and try to help us. And to drop and deliver any Certain helicopters do have radar systems, so we're trying to either or we're trying to map the in really poor weather conditions. Helicopters have a few different lights. So, each pilot have their own searchlight, and then a lot of times you'll operate with what's called a Nightsun. So it's just a really powerful searchlight towards the middle or This right here is probably a 9.5. Hi, I'm John Spencer. I'm the chair of urban warfare studies at the Modern War Institute. I spent over 25 years in the US Army, but I've been studying urban It's very accurate to be behind a wall and you pop out for a second Where he's throwing the Grenades have a timer in them, basically, so they don't Once it hits the target. 100% air support is that and why usually you don't bring it in. It's low-flying, it's slow, it doesn't have much protection, and usually you drop soldiers In this situation, they didn't expect that level of resistance. Go. Crossing the street can vulnerable things of urban warfare because there's so many angles, so many windows, so many doorways which you can get shot. So we teach things like so that people can't see and mixing up the speed If I didn't know this battle, I would say that this is not realistic where you have hundreds of but that's really what happened. And they got the soldiers pretty accurate, but there's been a lot of and the depiction of the of what's going on in Hey, Grimes, stay away from the wall. You OK? Yeah! That's actually an iconic &quot;Stay off the wall.&quot; That was real advice are hitting the walls, then kind of like a bowling alley, and it can hit if you're standing on that. I wouldn't say it happens in all, because every city is different. You have mud, cement, glass, but that's real. Let's go, Maddox. You see the bullet holes in the glass because back then we weren't as prepared for urban warfare as we are today, so those aren't bulletproof vehicles. A lot of the weapons for that environment but they also were surprised So I'd give it, like, a nine not realism in the and things that are going on. Chris Hemsworth is more with his hand-to-hand. Close-quarters fighting is We actually tie the weapons to ourselves, so if we get caught in that situation and turn a corner or they can't take it away from us, but not the tactics that He's surrounded by so he's trying to disarm one Personally, I would have with one of those rifles and then get your back against something so you're not expecting and then incapacitate them in some way. I can't say I've found or we teach that, but it could work. Absolutely slow the person I'd say you'd want to turn and especially in a building like that, just to confuse them Out of everything out of that scene, that's probably the most realistic. The fact that he's hiding behind a column, that column is a supporting column, so it has steel-reinforced concrete. Where some walls, it can be If you don't have that, then you do get behind things like anything you can to try to get you cover. Yeah, it was a lot of fun to watch, but I'd give it about a I actually love this clip, and I wish I could show to think about buildings differently. Especially if you're defending a house, you want to take the stairways away, you want to take the doors away, and absolutely throw furniture down. But the scene is really great that's not necessarily to protect you from bullets, because bullets pass through wood, through cloth and everything. That's a great lesson that we teach our soldiers, You crouch down to go underneath them, kind of slowly walk your way around them. Bullets incoming probably but like that, absolutely we tell you to stay away from windows. Yeah, that clip is really important to what people don't even think about even in the military, called mouse holing, putting holes in walls, in floors to move throughout without being seen. It's very common in major urban battles. Actually, I would love for or something like that, but Sometimes we use axes like that to make that hole. Real tactics, real everything, so I'm going with a I mean, this scene seems because I had my own deployments where we were doing raids like these where there's only a few terrorists in a population of millions. For the advantage of your but also to reduce the and the risk to civilians. The fact that their night-vision goggles were always on top of their You'd want to cut the power or so you want to use those Execute. It's very common and very smart to have a sniper with overwatch who has angles that the people moving It's a really good call for the sniper to be the one to execute the first shot, because you want to save your and a sniper usually This sniper in particular, he'd probably be wearing more equipment, and usually it's a sniper and a spotter, so there'd be other people with him. The way they enter this almost too common, thing It's called enter and clear a room. Throwing a grenade can if it's known to be an enemy location and you know there's somebody Of course you're going to enter it with something other than your face. So, the way they're stacked on the door is about getting in there quickly. It actually evolved from SWAT tactics. These tactics were actually developed to limit that amount of violence because there may be The tactics you see Bradley is what I would teach. You want to get behind the bullets that people but also be able to return The windows are great to get down behind, kneel behind, still shoot from. Unlike the enemy in that scene running out into the open areas, that's actually the opposite They're going to stay inside the rooms, make you come in there. You're going to get off Butcher's on the move. Repeat. Butcher's on the When he goes off by himself and chases, that's not realistic. We don't move by ourselves anywhere. It's almost like a cardinal rule. So it would be another team and communicating to each other using some type of radio or something. If he says, &quot;Moving,&quot; then somebody else would follow him out there. I'd give it a rating of around an eight. Ambush! This happened to me in Iraq, Ambushes are very, very It's meant to surprise the people, entrap them in a funnel like that. Although the bad guys don't usually just stand on top of the roof. You would not be standing shooting back. You wouldn't last long. We'd seek cover, use those Ideally, though, in the whole situation, it's called a &quot;kill zone&quot; of the ambush. You want to get out of it. That concept of having a, we call it a quick reaction Because you've been surprised, somebody needs to come to help you, and we usually keep forces in an urban setting like this to be that quick reaction Let's go. Let's go! They ram the vehicle, Trying to lock them in that kill zone so everybody can shoot at you. So, I'm actually going to than I want to because outside of the tactics, so I'll give it a, let's give it a four. The drones are probably to urban warfare that's As I go into Ukraine to on the major battles, there's thousands and It reduces some of the if I can put a drone to see around that corner, The aspect of X-ray vision, because we still can't Especially not much can see through steel. It gave me a lot of feelings Especially the use of the dump truck reminds me of the Beirut bombings where a dump truck was brought like in that scenario, but then exploded. This is why urban warfare is so hard. Dump truck could be a threat. Although that's probably unlikely that you're going to use to throw it up in the air, is what we call a three-block war, where, when you're you are actually very concerned about the civilian population at the same time as you're fighting, and there's restrictions on So, no, that's a very plausible scenario that any soldier who has values is trying to protect while still trying to do it, the mission. So if the rating has to be for realism, I'll give it around a six. Eight to 10 Tangos, front gate. Left! By the trees. A couple little things in there. There are nice touches of like the red dot that on the modern weapons that to the green hue that coming off the night-vision goggles. So, when you see some version kind of martian type of look. When you look around, Get to the top of this building. Let's go. Blocked by buildings. This roost is a bust. In this scene, they enter like that. It's a great idea. The strategy was called strongpoints, or a building that is really strong, it has lines of sight or directions you can fire and in war it's happened has been held for months just because it was the right strongpoint. He says it's a bust because the direction, the building, they got up there, thought but they couldn't see Take on your right. What we usually see in is everybody trying to get to the roof because it kind of is common I can see people farther out, but depending on the context, you don't want to be because you can also be seen from the air, from drones, from mortars, you can be hit. It's based on a real situation at Benghazi where they're That's a good idea to get up there so you can see where they're coming from and to take better from the rooftop for sure. I'd give that a pretty about a seven, eight, just based on the type the chaos, the building I think this is an important scene because one of the biggest about urban warfare is or soldiers shooting their weapons. Major urban battles are tanks, artillery, engineers, infantry. They're full-scale battles in concrete. Now, the damage that the that is unlikely that just the whole face of the It's going to do a lot of damage, and that's why you have a tank, because a tank is mobile It has that giant gun that can which is concrete and cover. But in this scene, they're all tracers. It's almost like a &quot;Star Wars&quot; ray gun. They won't all be like that. There's actually a myth that tanks are not helpful in urban But actually, the if you go into a major urban fight and you don't have a tank, you're wrong. But the problem is that and the infantry can't go by itself. And as we see in this scene, the infantry worked to protect the tank, and then the tank protect the infantry. But tanks are vulnerable, as you see here. The Germans shoot from below in the basement. The size needed to take a all depends on what the and I think they really didn't know. For that street, I think that looked where you combine a tank with an infantry platoon or something to clear a street like that before you discover where the enemy is. Outside of the lasers of the rounds, this is a very realistic and the combined arms that you need, so I give it a nine. Ugh. Will you pause? The one thing that I can't is that everyone walks up to the wall and just sticks their rifle That's absolutely what you don't do. You're just putting a flag I don't have any problem with This is a hasty attack. Two different buildings, that's great; it gives you converging fire. So firing down from two They can cover more of the courtyard. The scene in this movie battle of Mosul that happened in 2017, one of the biggest battles 100,000 security forces against a entrenched ISIS enemy force that had to be cleared out. That's actually pretty realistic. You open an attack like that We call it the most Duds do happen. The way is you have more than a more than one big weapon, which is actually accurate, Your surprise is gone. Attack. It's actually pretty complex, because they have moving forces with other elements shooting down that they have to know on when to turn their That's, in some ways, the that's as they're maneuvering in while another person's holding them down. Booby traps are very Pictures on the wall. Any and everything could be potentially booby traps. We see it right now in the Ukraine war when Ukraine takes back their But you have to be hyperaware of all those booby traps, for sure. One is just awareness of every soldier not to move and displace things, and then we have bomb-sniffing I'm going to actually give Just some of it's a little off. He'll be on the footwalk over the gutter. We'll take him out from behind. The underground is a huge component of that three-dimensional Many cities have cities under the cities, and in battles like this, the battle of Stalingrad, because there was such Yes, those are possible The characters on both to real snipers that were prevalent in the battle of Stalingrad who were known to put themselves in the barrels The cat and the mouse that didn't happen. We do train soldiers and there is some aspect of That's a real thing, right? but you don't know where the sniper is, and unlikely that you're to blind that, so, no, don't do that. I want to give it a pointing out the but the realism of the around a three, I guess. That's pretty about as real as it gets. The IED, or the improvised is the weapon of the last 20-plus years. The invisible enemy that you The M2 .50-cal is still used today. It's a very effective large machine gun that has the size of bullet that you'd want, where The accuracy of what to the building looked pretty accurate. Some of them you can He didn't shoot that to create that level of sprawling and honeycombing of that wall. The tactics there are pretty sound, where you have the machine while the infantry are maneuvering lower so there's control there to enter that building where I can't say that kicking It's called a mule kick. I wish the movies would stop showing it because it's not effective, but I have found many soldiers trying it. But it's not the most force you can put by kicking in that door. Soldier: On the ground! That's an unfortunate of that scenario and that chaos of when the soldier enters the room, but controlled and not But then you have scared, frantic civilians even approaching you, making the soldier feel very unsafe. That's a very realistic and that is urban warfare. So if we were to take out the mule kick, I would give that scene a 10. Gareth Timmins here. I'm a former Royal Marines commando that spent time in and just various places Gas! It's CS gas, which has been widely used in the Middle East, especially Whether you would fire it Firing the CS gas and would just be like chucking a little cap in terms of its effectiveness Mine! I mean, if you were you would absolutely just, I would've thought, just as fast as possible to get out of there. But they seemed to veer into it just fine, I think for the purposes of the film and for the viewers, really. The fact that they're just is quite comical, really. A minefield would normally be set out in a certain way to or to channel the enemy In terms of the spacing it's just been placed just to hit it. The anti-personnel mines are actually now banned by the Geneva Convention. What used to happen with those was you'd trigger one of the pines, and they'd come out the ground at about waist level, But yeah, you wouldn't normally unless there'd been a sandstorm, but even still, they look brand new. If you were breaking contact or trying to get away from the enemy in an open desert like that, you've got no urban you would absolutely want unless it was completely disabled, and at that point you had no other option but to leave it because it was acting as a magnet for the enemy. But you certainly wouldn't bail from it if it were moving. Improvised explosive Iraq and Afghanistan do flip vehicles, but whether a mine would be able to flip it to that extent is debatable. But certainly the people would be severely injured, if not killed. I'd give it a 3. Yeah, they're in the desert, there's military kit getting used, but apart from that, it's Radio: I have seven located at the border checkpoint waiting. They're moving and forming They're really, really closed up now. Before they got to the border, when they were driving in that kind of convoy posture if you want to maintain the and not have vehicles come in. But as soon as they've kind of left that, and they're going now into the open desert and open ground, they would want to really, The Humvee, it's an awful vehicle. It's not comfortable. During this now, you would close up, because you've got limited visibility. It's exaggerated there, really. Yeah. It is a thing. It would restrict your view, absolutely. Radio: No vehicle, no motion. Oscar 1. Incoming on your right. Man: Air, I see nothing. Radio: Contact right. I think it's realistic. You would have put out which is what they do. Again, it's good. There's, like, natural, about the weather and whatnot, and that would happen in real life. There'd be some jokes, but you would be very much So the communication there, in terms of communicating It could be a bit better, but it's good. Man: I don't see anything. Oh, down, down! [gunshots] You would absolutely, at all cost, want to drive through that. We call it &quot;driving through it.&quot; They call it &quot;the killing zone.&quot; To stop in that or be disabled in that would be like your worst nightmare. The sound and the impact that that round would make on the windscreen, I think would naturally, just make you do that. I think once a few rounds hit it and it had massaged your anxiety of &quot;nothing's going to come through,&quot; you would like to think that you'd be able to get back on track It's just, it's chaos. [gunshots] It's what's called a complex attack. The first guys go out to the left, which is what you would You would get out on the and use it as cover then to try and get some You're always told in training naturally, that's not taking fire. So you'd get out to cover. And you can see how they're kind of getting the weapons into the shoulder and how they're manipulating the doors and then pushing the door and coming back onto the stock of the weapon and stuff. It's really high-level stuff and weapon manipulation and use of cover. It's absolutely superb. [gunshots] I wouldn't want to be because you'd have no view whatsoever of anything that's going off, and it would be claustrophobic. I can see why she's done but it's not where I'd want to be. You've got to try and get somehow, as soon as possible. I'd give it 9. The only kind of thing is the spacing when they're in terms of the vehicles, how they react, the weapon manipulation, the communications is really good. He's running around often with a top off or a vest on. The sunburn and the heat stroke that he would get from You'd have some kind of or a tactical jacket, like a thin jacket, and you'd almost certainly Depending on the sand, and it would be incredibly I mean, granted, he's got but it would be incredibly difficult. You're running from side to side to evade possible enemy fire, especially if that's You'd be running to positions of cover rather than in a straight line. It's there to look like a Hind. It's actually the Pumas They've been marked up to look like real Soviet gunships, I think, by the Russians in 1972. So they definitely would have been in the actual Afghan and The biggest myth, really, is, I think about desert warfare films, is, I think, the hero So it's, if you look at, say, &quot;Rambo&quot; or anything like that, it's One person getting into a war zone, and in reality it's just, That weapon system, .50-cal Dushka, it would take it down. And I'm just slightly unconvinced that there would be, for that amount of time. Sometimes you can get then you have to start One person could operate that, yeah. Would be better with two, It's a difficult one because is in the realms of I would probably give it a 5. I think the percentage of from doing what he does Call it in. See if there Lima 2 Charlie. Lima 2 Charlie. The radio operator has via the sat phone. He's not been successful, but he's not give the responder opportunity to respond. We've used them before in It's just a case of sometimes moving to an elevated position to establish communication. They are unreliable. Who are they, man? I don't know. You would have automatically hit the floor and gone to ground, and observing from what we from a prone position. The mirage effect, obviously But it wouldn't distort and you'd still be able Their movement towards They're not running, they're not shouting. You'd be looking for as they start to get closer. Form a line! They do get into extended line, which is good tactically but the posture that they get getting weapons and into the shoulder, is an escalation that you would want to try and avoid. See, and they're all M16s. underslung grenade-launcher attachments. It's an old American-issued weapon. They'll be real weapons with probably just magazines in, with no ammunition. Soldier: What are you doing? Swoff! Guys, cover him. Weapons should have been down, for sure. He should have had one of but just posing a more Maybe saying, like, the local language would have been the right He walked straight into the arc of the line of fire of all the lads. You would never do that. He would have almost if it would've gone ugly. Realism, I'd probably give it about a 5 or a 6. It's not uncommon for people to walk into your arc of fire or your line of fire and just be unaware of it. In this instance, you would try and scarper away to Going to grounding Try and lower your profile. But trying to get into some I know it's difficult in this scene. It's very open, and or anything like that. But your tactics in this would be to, if you have to engage, engage, but then try and peel away. Yeah, it'd be a worst-case scenario. It's a Minimi that the guy's got here, which is a key tactical team weapon. A belt-fed 5.56 ammunition. But just how he's holding it, it's up, and then he holds the back stock. He's definitely been taught that. The drills in this as well, The people with the rifles, the M16s, are firing single shot, A massive thing in Hollywood is our weapons are always on and it's not really correct. Although the drills are good and slick, in this you can't get away from the fact that it looks like actors holding weapons. Probably give it a 4. I think the SAS, in things differently. A lot differently. I don't think you would have engaged in preemptive strike like that, unless they were literally The dog is clearly sniffing Putting them in the ground is but they might also be put in the ground just to show the allied But they would sit down, yeah, when they've come across something that they're not that happy with. They're expecting a treat. What it's kind of all about for them, it's just a game. [ringing sound] In terms of disorientation, like the ringing nose alluding to how your ears would be, absolutely, yeah. You might not hear anything for minutes. Might burst your eardrums. I mean, it is realistic, but they just seem to recover too quickly from it. Could be an old shell, an old war shell that they've used. Pointing really towards a vehicle, like a vehicle IED that they've The fact that it's actually on what looks to be like a common trail for vehicles and stuff kind of points to the fact I think it probably might a bigger explosion, but it would blow them back like that, if not worse. Canine error would be a factor that you would factor into not kind of run the dog Hey! How did your dog miss that? You could've gotten us all killed. It must have triggered the It's all really good There's no way that you would be kind of up on your feet and calling somebody out for what they have or haven't missed. You'd be glued to the you'd be disorientated, and There's no way that you would kind of respond in that kind of manner. And another thing that that might just be the first detonation. There might be a secondary explosion, and I think if somebody has detonated that with a command wire, you would absolutely be expecting an ambush off the back of that, because you've actually I think it's really realistic up until what happens after the explosion. And for that, I'd probably give it a 7. So, the red smoke is to indicate the LZ, the landing zone, where you're going to Slightly strange in this clip, because it's almost self-explanatory, given that you've got So it's kind of just thrown out there, probably visually just for It would have been an incredibly aggressive kind of posture now from the rescuing forces. They wouldn't waste any whether you've got weapons There's just no time for it. It's just quickly in and out, so everybody in between them and extracting the US personnel would have -- it wouldn't have been a great experience for them whatsoever. Let me see your hands! The Americans, or anybody, will always go back for one of their own. You would have had guys days before, providing of this and establishing patterns of life. What kind of weapons they've got. What time they go to bed. Where they're keeping the hostage, and if they keep moving him. And that would have been getting fed back in order to create this rescue attempt. So the first phase of it the Spectre gunships that you see and the Apaches coming in, followed by the ground Soldier: Are you Marcus Luttrell? You're safe, Marcus. You're going home. What they could do is probably &quot;What's your service What's your rank?&quot; and stuff like that, which would quickly identify him. So it's true to life, so I've got to give it a 9 or a 10. Trey: Got movement. 12 two guys on the roof. Ortega: Are they armed? So, these are US Marines. There's kind of two sides The initial start, where they're saying, &quot;Have they got weapons? It's to identify them as but also it gives them, in a sense, a free pass to engage, if they have to. Looking for weapons is It's a simple f---ing question, Trey. Do you see a weapon? That's not the question you asked. You asked if they were armed. The answer to that one Obviously they're f---ing armed, Ortega. Why else would they be I don't f---ing know, do I? I don't understand these f---ing people. I think the chatter is In real life, it'd be very minimal. And especially the swearing as well, I think this is probably a bit tame in terms of what it Certainly, the immature nature of it is definitely inaccurate. Trey: All I know is we [gunshots] They're not really using they don't really move Once they take that first shot, they should move position, and especially if it's a sniper as well, 'cause he'll just be looking in the same position, Kevlar helmet. They are effective in It all just depends on that the helmet's hit with, the angle, and also how close it is from leaving the barrel If it's a sniper, which, you could argue it is from that range and they would have kind of like a 7.62 long, firing It might protect him based on angle, but if it is a sniper, they would probably be getting, like, hits towards the center but it would protect him. What the viewers need to appreciate is that it would be incredibly, to have your head above that knowing that somebody is firing, because all you can really think about is that in not even a second, you could be hit in the face and that might be you just So you are uncomfortably aware of that. So, yeah, I think you would Where are you hit? On the f---ing eyes! I mean, he might have had sand kick up from the round that he It's probably the right course of action in that instance. He might've had a bit of if he's been shot in the I'd give it a 5 just because I think the