Almost two years ago I made a video titled, about beating the second visit of Orxon where where you're stuck playing as Clank. Despite a puzzle that's missing its last piece. The elusive to get to, leads Ratchet &amp; Clank to the most often considered by speedrunners to be the worst this place has become an absolute burial and where runs come to die. Today we're gonna by looking at how the planet has history of the game's new game+ Let's start off with the basics by looking Buy Hydro-Pack from Ed and Explore Icy Wastes to progress further into the game. This means that do so, Ratchet must man a turret that's meaning that Hoven is primarily a vertically and gunning down a big ship, Let's take a look at how Hoven was completed ever performed. A very impressive 1:11:56 in July 2008. First off, RJWaters uses a lot of to save time on general movement. A corner level to save time having to go around the big as RJWaters has a keen eye for smaller time saves. a significantly cheaper option than the need to take him out. He then collects some extra purchase stuff later in the run. RJWaters does by jumping straight to the conveyor belts Once a bit further up, RJWaters has to cross down would mean he would have to redo everything. skipping the first platform, and thrusting on head inside the big hut that's straight ahead of by jumping over to a reachable platform on the With the ascent now complete, it's time to fight to talk about here. First, the ship is separated you need to destroy them all using the turret. be swarmed by a bunch of Blarg heli-commanders, on screen for too long. RJWaters had discovered once by hitting the ship in specific locations. 2 and 3 all at the same time, while killing Afterwards he finishes the fight by focusing dropping to about a quarter health but saving down to the ship and completes Hoven in 2 minutes We now have to fast forward a handful of years, to of a golden age, as active strategy discussion forums, and runners would begin doing their first Ratchet 1 New Game+ was popping off, and main category of not only Ratchet 1, but the were flocking to the game at a rapid pace, and Over at the SDA forums, a runner called Klasida This demonstrated a shortcut to skip the 2 cave Klasida utilized a technique that would become a series, the Slope Intercept. When Ratchet glides for a brief moment upon landing, normally he press X while holding R1 in this small window Heli-Pack. SI's can be performed multiple times, performs 4 in a row to cut out a decent portion on every sloped surface in the game, so a lot of can't high jump off. Back when Klasida found this to perform in full game speedruns, but SI's on the SDA forums called Inffi found a strategy menu in a clever way. In his 45:01 from April the turret. Right before the game is about to Inffi pauses the game and plays an In-Level you view specific cutscenes at will. Upon exiting the turret at the same time. Meaning that the RYNO without having to move the crosshair away shortcut wasn't used in this run, Inffi still with a 2:06. Most of the time save came from a all the new game plus perks, such as not having to The next discovery that was to be made on and this discovery is no joke one of the most planet. As Tice stepped foot on the freezing ball Tice instead goes into the side mission path and 40:53 from June 2013, would showcase Tice scaling of 19 SI's in a row. If Klasida's set of 4 SI's you can probably imagine the sheer difficulty hardest trick in the entire game at the time. I every point on the mountain as to where you in the wrong spot, you'll slip off the mountain, back up spot to continue the high jump chain. Tice to the turret 6 seconds slower, but the potential did everything right and the fact that Tice was back in 2013 just to save a couple of seconds, of its time, and ticeman would get better at it Tice made significantly less errors scaling 7 seconds faster than Inffi this time. But half of Hoven as well, as this run would also In January of 2014, a runner called Cyprys, would Hoven with his new video. "Ratchet &amp; Clank New figured out a method of starting Hoven SI from meaning that you didn't have to go through whatsoever. Cippy would go on to set a new 38:30. Even with a small slip up at the start, a whole 19 seconds faster than Tice's former casual route even with the shortcuts, was competitive in the category. If you wanted to be a and throughout early 2014, Cippy and another back and forth many times. Minute barriers were SI continued to be the most nerve wracking part my closest friends and everytime the Ratchet they both show enthusiasm for it, except for the and most people are inclined to agree, but the two those days that it only brings back the terrible Even with all the practice, you'd still see a mistake to Hoven SI. The trick was just way but the runners certainly tried. Nuka would this time, and his 33:44 from March 2014, A beautiful 0:38 turret entry, and a now we're getting somewhere. Nuka integrated many of the game's planets. For the turret fight 4 and 5 first, as it's closer to the crosshair early 2015 was easily the best Ratchet 1 way above the competition at the time, and he had but Nuka was losing ground to some new runners. hardware. The PS3 era of Ratchet 1 had arrived. far has been on the original PS2 version of the playing Ratchet 1 on the relatively newish PS3 faster loading times in multiple spots. There cutscenes, in-level movies, and more, causing overall time save back then was roughly 3 minutes most of the timesave from using the PS3 version normally used to purchase ammo remotely at a possible to achieve a grounded state out of the The L1 button activates the first person view is on the ground, a high jump can be performed as and over again. The infinite jump, as it would version. On PS2, you have to wait for the vendor PDA again, and he shows up at seemingly random 1-3 As more infinite jumps were being found throughout the painfully slow PS2 version, as the PDA could A runner named Orch discovered that infinite SI's out of Hoven SI, saving a few seconds his runs, he wouldn't really get any time save out S_laughter would get a 37 second ascent using tried to cut out an extra SI at the top, pushing it once, this is still the fastest Hoven SI we've description of "WRWRWRWRWRWRWRWR." Now I need to runners out there, but dude. This guy was his tv for the majority of his early speedrunning Brace yourself. "I'm gonna yolo it during the Upon Vortexes' rise in 2015, he would frequently being on an even playing field. Nuka was even computer was literally that shitty at the time. 30:58, died on Hoven. His 30:54, died on Hoven. the top. All of the runs I just mentioned were 30, was set in this quality, and still had issues before his sub 30, actually had a pretty decent the fastest ever by 5 seconds. Vortex didn't quite strat, so he would often lose time from failing planet. In this console transitional era, Nuka and was pulling out better Hoven times than Vortex Hoven SI was practiced, and his turret fight of Ratchet speedrunning lore, where the best but was almost able to negate the disadvantage consistency. His 30:28 is still today seen as a on PS2. It would literally take an entire year which is about what his PS2 run equates to. I speedrunning to its own separate video, but I'm Every runner at this point in time had spent The most brutal and unforgiving trick in the huge discovery would be made to the core movement around this time largely consisted of Neutral Long the analog stick in the neutral position of the get through levels very quickly. Around Christmas could be done in a short burst on planet Umbris, creating a tiny jitter of sorts. On one magical and this was more than just a small jitter. The this is how it works. If you run off the very edge Ratchet, then mash long jump and sideflip in a period of time as the game assumes him to be in anymore, the Infinite Long Jump drops, but a ton your movement strings at high velocity. It can ILJs as they would be called, would be found to was discovered to be possible on Rilgar's water, the icy waters of Hoven. Unfortunately ILJs was Hoven being a vertical planet, the discovery S_laughter however had found a similar technique back in 2013. Seeking a personal goal to complete he was able to clear the final room by continually much exactly the same way as ILJs, as all you had with a surface beneath you that you could ILJ then pressing Left X, Right Left X, and so on. would be coined Infinite Sideflips. Nuka and with Infinite Sideflips on Hoven. Now, there was planet anymore, Hoven SI had been obsoleted. it was probably the best state hoven had ever and if you were good at the turret fight, anymore. You could even swag out with tricks like breeze to get through, for the first time in the old Hoven SI was 1:35, now that the planet had Hoven was dropping below 1:20 on the regular. For the rest of 2015 nothing new but this didn't mean that the game wasn't being Raikaru would slowly chip away at begin tearing through the game once 2016 I saw Ratchet 1's world record hovering around low 27 or lower should easily be attainable, since 3 minute disadvantage. Nuka's run, despite being display of Ratchet 1s movement, so I attempted pushed the game to new heights. After a couple of I would carve my own path and lower the some new walloper speedtech, I would 23 minute time. Despite all the records, except for a small time saver after the turret did back in the day proved to be useful after I would swap to the heli-pack in the menu before do a short Infinite long jump back to the the thruster. In a fitting conclusion to a best segment for Hoven on my 23, with a 17 At the start of 2017, nobody was pushing the Scaff was about to change all of that, who would all of 2017, Scaff would set 9 world records in a called Sina had discovered that it was possible level, practically right in front of the initial and allowing you to get to the turret fight in deceptively more difficult than the other one, obscured by the snow. If you jump too early and wiggling from side to side, honestly a pretty an infinite jump back to the ledge, but Ratchet so every second you lose really matters, That wouldn't be the only discovery however, as would take place. It turns out that the game entering the turret. This means it's possible as long as you're straight under the such as being in an ILJ or an Infinite Sideflip. The downside is that you won't be able to do heli-commanders, but on paper this strat saved strat a whirl in runs, opting to PDA glide into control. Also the trigger is deceptively thin surprise, he started saving time using the strat. used to save time over not having to move the runners in the past didn't realize though, flies in a set path every time. And most of these crosshair if you follow Nuka's strat of doing the run where this was first implemented - You can times to take out the heli's, and when he does, he we are now entering the sub 1 minute era of full planet. Scaff's final three world records in turret fight where the planetbuster is way higher but it might have something to do with entering idle animation. This can randomly lose you time more to hit the heli-commanders. Hoven was At the end of 2017, Scaff took a leave from the baton as I returned to the game to prepare for an the record continually at the start of 2018 until march off to recharge the battery in hopes 20. I even made a video outlining what potential the milestone. The most intriguing strategy of the by Doesthisusername. User decided to closely dealing damage to it actually worked. He figured and each turret shot deals 0.2, however User shots were randomly dealing five times the amount he found out that the top most bits of the where the 5 times damage can be achieved. These spots are insanely small and because the impossible to consistently obliterate its health a project where I would play Ratchet 1 New game+ I started incorporating the new ship fight the planetbuster parts was now a bit different Let's take a look at my 20:32 set on April 4th. on parts 4 and 5, but I aim for the top middle of hits. I only aim away very briefly to take care I then swap to hitting only 1 and 2 at the setups for this part but I prefer to aim for it usually nets me a few critical hits. You can how quickly the ship bursts into flames. After main reasons why so many runners absolutely dread happens when the game feels like it. Now of course well for me here, but the amount of runs that heli's are just scattered all over the place, and you can do is just aim for the turret and pray Also if you somehow get the high ship glitch, you can't even reach the top part a look at this clip from runner Hoven had now entered the lottery stage. All relied on your ability to execute whatever was with stuff that is completely out of your control. hitting the trigger to enter the fight can leading us to believe that alive and is moving around at will. Despite how bad Hoven was now, I wasn't deterred. take my mind off of it. Throughout April, not only down to 19:34, one of my proudest speedruns of during this grind would be completely ridiculous, even WITH a scuffed sideflip at the very end. turret trigger without using the PDA, causing my which is completely crazy when you different iterations of Hoven SI all now you can reach the turret in absolutely no There really hasn't been much improvement but Franzcorr has pushed the game to incredible barrier in 2020. His 18:45 from 2021 On the Ratchet &amp; Clank community gold sheet, Franz 55.65, or in the context of the timing we've used to use what's known as wiggle strats, where hits by wiggling the crosshair back and forth and not every runner does it. And this is kind Hoven is in a really bad spot, hitting and getting a fast turret fight is effectively this category, you need to refine your movement journey to get here wasn't diverse. We went from to the RYNO strat on the turret fight, to to infinite sideflips, to infinite long jumps, and don't.. love today. Currently the only way a way to destroy the planetbuster in a quicker damage to the ship, so the only way to damage Right now there's no viable path to skipping If there's any positive to take away from this luck fest, still retains a ton of intrigue amongst hoping for that miracle turret fight where If the Ratchet 1 New Game+ run was easy, we'd sometimes needs these kinds of roadblocks to the goal you're trying to achieve. But I think when I say that Hoven has always been frowned get through it. So to Hoven I say, screw you, Thanks for watching, if you like the and supporting me on patreon.