Today we are going to have a ball on We're gonna make a pi tape today also every circle has a diameter some length points on opposite sides and the distance around the circle the the circumference of a circle divided by one you know the other so if you wrap a and you look at its circumference you every pi units 3.14 boy it's like a that I had a decimal Imperial measuring inaccuracies here. Let's say that pi is pi is 6.28. That's about pi. 3 pi is 9.42 so we'll There's 3 pi. If I wrap a measuring circumference is pi units well that units. If two pi units go around its the way around its diameter is 3 and so to take the circumference of the circle irrational number. It's got a lot of of them to be precise but wait what if figurine. What if we just had a measuring units listed this way it instead counted 0 and then one was here and 2 was here could wrap the tape around the object was around the circumference what we saw would be the diameter. Such a thing is called a pi tape or measuring tape happens to be one. if I flip it over to the other side you will see that it has whoa okay first of all see on the tape on the other side are pi perfectly. This is totally I'm not even joking that's well it's really just luck but measured off in chunks of Pi inches so around an object like say this cylinder 6.1 inches. Let's use the other side of the tape to see what its diameter is when measured we're just over six inches but why buy a Let's do that today. First things first what I'm gonna do is take this sheet of centimeters. The PI tape that I own use those. Now for metric here's a nice you know let's uh let's cut to a better beginning our zero point and PI millimeter just a little shy of half a here. Obviously if you want more precision you can just well buy a mechanically made Pi go. So now we're gonna use this template to mark off every PI centimeters on our tape you can use anything you want for a actual masking tape I pulled out a long underneath it and precisely closed them sticky parts were left exposed it was something a little easier I'm going to all by itself but I think it's a little half come with me okay now that you have the physical tape centimeter marks on let's put them on. shows us how far PI centimeters is. We line and Mark off equal sections but I'm tape I'm gonna give myself a little bit grab a pen oh here we go. This is where further away now from that mark PI continue making these marks until I run monotonous for me but extremely exciting Alright so I have made a mark every PI centimeters along this tape. The next step is to give myself a zero there and then a one seven and so on. The point being that when I put this pi tape around an object the number that I the circumference but the circumference circle with a diameter of six now while you watch another montage. How lucky is that that this tape will up to 60 centimeters. That's great this let's have some fun and test out how it 15 centimeters in diameter I measured ring right on the zero of the tape. Let's 15. 15 centimeter diameter. Thanks PI tape actually I take that thanks back because we just rolled the shape but what if we look what happens. I know that this ring precision made it's a physics teaching tape is telling me that it's more than somewhere around maybe I don't know 15 and a fifth or a sixth or something what's going on? What went wrong? Well the problem is that by putting this tape around the ring we're no longer are now measuring the diameter of the we're using to measure it and that might much as we are but we have added the top and once to the bottom and the that thickness times pi so we're by a factor of twice the thickness of What that means is that when we wrap the tape around something we need a different zero point that subtracts out a PI tape around it because this ring is made I'm gonna go ahead and use the ring is right there. Let's make this clear to and this one is for rolling. Now the work on the cylinder we used earlier. Now diameter is 15.4. Now let's take we get. Look at that beauty. I've wrapped the tape around. Our wrapping zero is right short of halfway between the 15 and the work PI tape. So now you are equipped to someone says oh I just really wish I you can say hey chill out I got you and is about. That's really what life is about. And as always