Today's video is done in collaboration with Middle-earth Strategy Battle Game's Sauron has been in hiding for over hands of the Last Alliance, and the he works to regain his strength his greatest servant brings about his own Today, on Nerd of the Rings, Nearly 500 years before the Kingdom of downfall would be sewn. After the death of be split into three. The largest of these the eldest son and rightful heir Amlaith. The two and Rhudaur. Often strife would in part because the Kings of Cardolan and Rhudaur the watchtower of Amon Sul. Arthedain not but also the other two palantiri of Over the centuries to come, the line and Rhudaur. The once great Kingdom is divided new kingdom rises in the north - the kingdom of just south of the mountains that would bear of the Misty Mountains, it would stretch to the is Carn Dum, though his kingdom would also In 1349 TA, the Kingship of Arthedain passes of Isildur in the other realms, Argeleb claims this decree, Rhudaur resists. An evil lord of had formed an alliance with the Witch-king. In but in a subsequent battle between Arthedain and drives the enemy forces back from the Hills Sometime after this, the Witch-king would set his However, Elrond would be reinforced by Lothlorien, Finally, in 1409 TA, the Witch-king would a great host, crossing the river, entering of Cardolan would be ravaged during the the battle at Amon Sul, the Dunedain are Sul is burned and razed and the great the palantir is saved and carried back Not only would Arveleg die in this encounter, would be buried at Tyrn Gorthad, or what would here that a remnant of Dunedain had held out the hobbits would become trapped in the very find Daggers of Westernesse - blades the Arnorians With Arveleg slain, the kingship has passed to his Araphor leads his people to repel the the elves of Lindon. For a time, Angmar would During this time, the hobbits who had dwelt Loudwater fled the dangers posed by Angmar - some others heading West. In total, 180 years and no further attacks from In 1601, the hobbits would migrate further gives them the land of The Shire, which had Argeleb would not experience attacks from Angmar, which ravages the lands of Eriador in 1635 TA. result of this terrible plague. The hobbits but it was less impactful in the the loss of the Dunedain of Cardolan would Seizing upon the weakened realm, he sends These spirits come to the barrow-downs, where buried there. Thus the barrow-wights, For over 200 years, Angmar would be held in 1851 TA, where King Araval, along with the aid of in the lands of Cardolan. Despite the victory, from the Witch-king. During this same time, It is Araval's son, Araphant, who the once united kingdoms of Gondor and power. While he likely did not know the than Sauron himself. Araphant seeks to and in 1940 TA, his son Arvedui marries An interesting note on Arvedui - his his father's counselors. This counselor for he was gifted with foresight and was THe first is telling Araphant to name "Arvedui you shall call him, for he will will come to the Dunedain, and if they then your son will change his name and then much sorrow and many lives of men shall pass, The second prophecy of Malbeth would be fulfilled Arathorn takes the Dimholt Road, summoning the Four years later, Ondoher and his two the Morannon - a devastating loss to the Arvedui claims the throne of Gondor, seeking to the lords of Gondor would instead chose Earnil wishing to hand the throne to the line of Still, the two kingdoms' strengthened relations Arnor's kingship at his father's death in 1964 Angmar preparing for it's greatest assault yet. for all. Arvedui sends word to Earnil - Angmar is The very next year the power of Angmar had down upon Arthedain that winter. The Arnorians alongside their elven allies and The might of Angmar is too great for Arthedain to captured, and most of the surviving Dunedain retreating are King Arvedui's sons. As for the Downs until the end of all hope. Finally, he would the switfness of their horses, they escape the Arvedui rescues the two palantiri in his care Arvedui comes to the far north end of abandoned dwarven mines. However, starving, seeking the help of the Lossoth, also known initially hesitant to aid the king out of fear of Sauron would make frost or thaw at will. and out of fear of their weapons, they gave them them. Arvedui is forced to await help from Meanwhile, the Witch-king takes up residence and war sweeps over the lands of the once great In the West, Arvedui's son, Aranarth, and the great shipwright sends a ship the bay of Forochel. In March of 1975, the ship for they said that they smelled danger in the Arvedui: "Do not mount on this sea-monster! food and other things that we need, and you For in summer his power wanes; but now his However, Arvedui ignored this counsel. giving him a ring - and heirloom of his ancient seeking to set out. However, the Lossoth would not even reach the open sea before snow out of the North. The ship is driven Arvedui, the last king of Arnor is lost Later that very year, Gondor would answer son Prince Earnur north with a great fleet. After they would come to the Grey Havens. that the harbors of both Harlond and Forlond We are told there was joy and great wonder "and from them descended an army of power, with munition and provision for a war of of the North, though this was but a small But it was not just the Gondorians who came to the most praised of all this force was the horses. with riders tall and fair - proud princes of ancestors of the Rohirrim once fought Bolstered by their southern allies, the remnants summons elves from his own lands and the remnants Lune, making their way toward the Witch-king. the nazgul, and in his pride, he waits not for the he rides out to meet them, seeking However, this host of the west comes out of the the plain between Nenuial and the North Downs. his forces are already retreating back to did he know that the Dunedain had sent the They charge from the north, descending upon The Witch-king, gathering all flees northward toward Carn Dum. Yet the cavalry of Gondor catches up to him. out of Rivendell, wiping out yet more of the Angmar defeated that not a man nor an orc of Seeing his imminent defeat, black-robes and black-masked upon a black him. He singles out Earnur for the fullness of straight at the prince of Gondor. While his horse would not. The horse flees, caring 'Then the Witch-king laughed, and horror of that cry. But Glorfindel and in the midst of his laughter the Witch-king For night came down on the battlefield, and Returning to the battlefield, Earnur but is held back by Glorfindel: "Do not land. Far off yet is his doom, and not by very prophetic statement that Eowyn, with Thus falls the Kingdom of Angmar. His forces where he would summon the other Nazgul - men and orcs of Angmar East of the Misty Hearing of the Witch-king's defeat, the Eotheod, travel north and drive away the remnants these very lands in the upper vales Ever after, the Witch-king would harbor bring about the King's end - and the end of the Witch-king would succeed in bringing about rangers wandering the wild. Yet, from this very the kings of Gondor - and indeed the If you would like to live out the Eriador - or perhaps be the Witch-king check out our friends at Middle-earth Strategy is super fun and has a lot of great deep as some original ones to flesh out the story. And letting us incorporate some photography of their as always I want to say a huge thank you to all channel possible Tom de Bombadil 19 listy the team Joe teer the mighty MIM Andrew Carlile Alvin Ebert Jeremy Daniel Derby Madame director Berto B ber Graham derot the darkhaired one the artwork in this video check out the artists in work for yourself thanks so much for watching