On this road in El Paso, the eye can see thousands back to Mexico after worth of goods bound for consumers. This is a scene Millions of dollars of Mexico into the United For the first time in more overtook China as the the U.S. Mexican goods imported to totaled $475 billion in higher than the previous During that same period, the U.S. came to $427 than the year prior. And imports from Mexico are In the first eight months imports from Mexico reached than the same period in Fueling that trend are between Beijing and bring U.S. imports closer Mexican manufacturing base. But there's another factor tariffs Chinese companies door to the U.S. With what you're moving finished product. How much actually stay in Mexico and think those Chinese United States? I think there's a huge in Mexico, but the big market. That's why China's What we're trying to do is the world to Mexico, again abroad. Chinese car companies, for in Mexico. Tariffs on 2018, when the Trump trade war with China. To take advantage of the companies like Maersk, DHL up their investments on These companies are coming It's a wild, wild, west, land to secure warehouse At the center of it all is Customs and Border world's largest law over 60,000 employees. We will do a complete instruments of terror, to origin, to manifest More than 650,000 cargo Ysleta-Zaragoza Bridge in So how is China able to tariffs, and what are prepare for the upcoming CNBC travel to Mexico City In an effort to avoid U.S. tariffs, Chinese companies materials and operations to Jordan Dewart is the logistics company, Redwood In addition to this 100,000 Paso, the company also has Mexico. How has the start of the Trump trade manufacturing? Well, it's no secret there Chinese companies after think we saw immediately an companies to move to Mexico Nearshoring wave. Ocean container data tracked Xeneta backs that up. We have seen 18 months in a basically all time high to Mexico. Container traffic from China recent years from January Mexico, container trade was prior. That's on top of same route in 2023, up 33% At the same time, China's has slowed down. You see an ever growing I think that's pretty clear going on here. Someone is it's not all going into consumers. VesselBot, which shows the three month recorded the highest the U.S. this year. The North American Free in 1994, eliminated most countries. The United Agreement, or USMCA, which effect four years ago. The agreement is up for point of those talks is China. Chinese companies, if they United States, they are If they bring their goods are improved upon, or some then qualify for the USMCA. In terms of what you have to labeled Mexican, as opposed have to substantially has to become a different So if I get a whole set of into a desk. I have substantially It has to change customs Changing a product's origin of goods, means it label to a Made in Mexico An estimated $3.7 billion investments was made in significantly higher than The Hofusan Industrial Monterrey, Mexico, is one and is now home to at least In the past three years, including BYD and Chery, Mexico. What are you moving Is it more components to I think Chinese companies, themselves in Mexico, they in. Now they've moved on to parts. Back door has a connotation wrong. Just because you see Chinese inputs, does not any rules of origin. Simon Cohen is the founder logistics company that got Mexico in 1998. The facility that we have six facilities that we have What we do here is we finished goods from abroad. We tag them, we label them, them, and we deliver it to final consumer. The company has about 1,000 to its facilities in Mexico Monterrey and another two year. Roughly 20% to 30% of to the U.S., according to The north part of Mexico is investment, and people are world, from Asia, from even from Africa. And they are trying to manufacturing facilities to market. Not only are the Chinese with manufacturing plants, companies. They are moving China and they're setting Some of the top ten Mexico in 2024 include Pirelli Tires and SKF, a well as Tesla and General One key advantage, labor is China, but its proximity to might be its biggest The U.S. and Mexico share a active land ports of entry. Roughly 6 million U.S. jobs depend on trade with The U.S. is also Mexico's Mexican manufacturing country's $1.3 trillion The two countries also when it comes to trade. During the cycle of parts often cross the times, while U.S. and Mexican factories work As a result, 40% of the imports from Mexico are the U.S. Cars built in to cross U.S. borders, Canada, eight times as they That means, unlike imports of the money U.S. consumers goes back to U.S. companies and workers. Going back 30, 40 years, and tequila. Now we're sophisticated products from aerospace, automotive, e Mexico produces 3.5 million 76% of those are destined market. The top ten Mexico and the U.S. in June 2024, were electrical machinery. But there are roadblocks Tesla announced in 2023 it billion in a new factory in Monterrey. However, that former President Donald 100% tariff on vehicles Other headwinds facing Mexico include security, scarcity and Mexico's What is the biggest threat Politics. Tariffs. If tariffs are placed on absolutely thwart the plan to backdoor their way into through the USMCA huge impact on those Juarez, one of Mexico's 1.6 million residents, is maquiladoras, or factories assemble them into finished companies. To show you just right behind me is downtown And a few miles away, two Mexico, and that's where are located. For most first stop, Customs and on the El Paso side of the Hi, how's it going? What do we have today? You declare in the cab of the Everything in order here? anything illegal? Ok, very good. Audan Ramos years. We have officers doing up on all the trucks as they're there's any anomalies, any Has an air tank been Modified? The rear doors of without breaking the seal? On an average weekday 2,430 border. Most truck drivers day. In addition to trafficking, and terrorism, Anti-Terrorism Contraband colleagues are looking at transported and their We're looking where the final point of manufacture determine country of that we have behind us, not engine may have been that's where the final together, that was in Trucks are also checked by their manifests vetted by If an officer notices an could be sent for an X-ray offloaded for further The Ysleta crossing on the border is located, is the Texas, for Mexico and U.S. trade. According to Ramos, 30 minutes to clear U.S. customs. But as we found Mexico can take much In terms of the Mexican volumes we were at the trucks heading back went on Why are we seeing such And how does that impact, supply chain? A lot of things are causing border. One is just the the increase of trade that Mexico. But we're also issues with Mexican customs ability to clear shipments When that system goes down, into the United States. It's a real problem. Once a truck clears El Paso ends up at a cross-dock What exactly is done here? Well, goods that are destined for the U.S. are typically loaded on a Those trailers can only side of the border about 30 And then they're required U.S. trailer so it can into the United States. One benefit for logistics points they have, and the the more money they can This is a cross-docking We've been to others. Do you have what we've seen Mexican drivers bring the trailers, and then they go Yes. We're five minutes away from and that was one of the key where Mexican drivers can and can go back to Mexico But why don't U.S. logistics companies send Mexico? We've seen that U.S. stopped sending their They're just not getting allowing that trailer to go The companies that have Mexican trucking companies. The average annual salary little over $5,000. Mexican trucking companies Mexico has a shortage of 9% of its total driver could double to reach by 2028. The country is also facing soaring interest rates, as highways. On average, 50 daily in Mexico. Even when trucking companies they are struggling to have wheels of these trucks, and need. All of this goes into rates in Mexico. Despite those hurdles, ramping up their operations The boom in nearshoring is investment from companies Freight, even rail CPKC. In 2024, shipping giant square foot cross-dock from the Mexican border. We're at the new facility while it may look empty, envisioning for logistics you are building building for the here and doors and 116 spaces for When do you foresee this filled? It's going to be a big I mean, it's a huge There is a lot of Again, it's a matter of aligning Maersk's Other logistics companies DHL's investment in Mexico warehouse, and since then, they have moved from Mexico In fact, over 5,800 through this facility, Laredo is a hotspot for the Just in June, we handled $30 billion in trade. We are crossing 18,000 south per day. We have seven different with over 1.5 million kind of business. And even railroads are action. CPKC is building a Laredo, Texas to Mexico, to container traffic. The bridge will be existing one, and is in late 2024. The company has also for shippers linking Monterrey, Mexico. The Nearshoring boom has Mexican manufacturing to $609 billion by 2028. Future growth, what are you Well, I think the table is We've seen billions of investment go into Mexico. That will translate into finished goods destined for So we're very bullish on we're investing heavily