- Should you trust Amazon Renewed tech? Now when you go to look for you'll see Amazon Renewed, expertly refurbished I'll be the judge of that. Now, when you're buying refurbished tech, it is an incredibly competitive scene where some companies offer offer 30, 60, 90 day return policy, but the most important thing for me is always what kind of condition are we actually looking at here? So premium means no almost nothing on the It's good with 90% battery So if we find anything premium, this really does seem like the right move, 'cause you can theoretically, if I'm reading that guarantee correctly, return it after 364 Then we've got excellent, and a 90 day, then you've Let's start out with the gold standard, which is certified premium So this is a Fire HD 8, which The new version of it is Okay, that seems like a good deal. I get myself a pair of renewed Beats. Okay, so this is a little bit annoying. So if you're looking through the listing, you can't just choose different quality. So I had to actually scroll down here to find a similar item, and this one shows up as Renewed Premium. It's only a few dollars more. Okay, let's do the premium Okay, so Quest 2, now this I was able to see this for $200 brand new. So I just want good, I want I can get it for 156 bucks. Z Flip 3, I heard Z Flip, I didn't say it, it echoed through the cosmos, We're cooking here, we're cooking. For $320, I can get an and this is the base model. Ooh, renewed Xbox. This is the first time I've seen an item that is not refurbished, but actually shows in used condition. Okay, how about something How about a PlayStation 2? Holy! $173 for a PS2? So if I spend $173 on first of all, get an original get something which is in So then, my friends, let's and see what kind of lovely technology our good buddy, Jeffy B, via Amazon Prime shipping. All righty, let's see what Jeffy B. has brought for us, shall we? I'm just gonna call him We're on a first name basis. I have high hopes, I mean, has Amazon ever done anything wrong? We'd like you to cite First up, we have our Amazon Fire HD 8 tablet for $55. Well (box rattles) hopefully Now the certified refurbishing means that this was, unlike actually refurbished by Amazon themselves. So I assume that this is a So we do have actually The rattling was just the Does it have five watt? Wow, they really cheaped out. And then we have our Fire Tab itself, which is in this nice little plastic thing and a hello, (speaks German) So this should be in, and I will say it looks There's a couple interesting things here. So it's definitely meant to be used in this landscape orientation 'cause not only do you have but you actually have top firing speakers, which is kind of interesting. Oh this is gonna have the I think I had to pay extra - [Alex] For the Certified Refurbished, they don't even give you the option of with ads or without ads. - Ads, ads, ads baby. If you're looking for reasons may I direct your attention which is a headphone jack. You've got yourself a micro SD card slot, and the beautiful Fire OS. Imagine Android, but (censored) Now the thing that I jumps out to me is the display. It is quite low resolution. So it is 1280 x 800, which, especially if I'm gonna like I don't know, read a book or wanna watch it's a little bit blurry. Let's actually watch some video. Let's see if that's any better. I mean if you want 720p, It's over sharpened. So here's the thing, right? You're paying like 55 bucks for it. It's not great, but it's fine. Let's take a look at the camera. I'm actually just like morbidly curious if this camera's any good at all. So this is a little bit of a sample of the front facing Now the good thing is the camera's actually which means that if you actually wanna do a video call or something, So here's the thing, this is a $55 tablet. Now I can make fun of it all but for this kind of money The thing I'm a little more interested in is the Amazon Certified Refurbished because we saved a few bucks by getting it refurbished versus new. And I'll be honest, as far as I can tell, there is no reason to buy this thing new, just because the refurbished version is essentially brand new. I don't have any scuffs, scratches, nothing. And importantly, it comes if I would've bought it new. So it's really just like that was on sale 'cause So if this is the kinda out of the Amazon Certified Refurbished it is a complete no brainer. Obviously this is a one of one test. So we got a lot of other But first glance, Amazon big thumbs up. This is our renewed Meta I paid $25 in shipping and $17 in tax, meaning that the grand total was $199, (Alex laughs) if I was gonna buy it new. - [Joanna] You didn't notice that when you hit the the checkout button? - Are you expecting to besides, (voicing nonsensical babble) wait, wait, hold on a second, this actually did show free delivery. Maybe I clicked on the wrong one, but I'm pretty sure I to get this for the price that I wanted and without paying the And it does say it may or may not come with manufacturer packing, and if I can give them anything, this is actually in the original box. It's a little stained though. Ew. Oh that looks, that looks nice. Oh no that's used, okay, yeah that's used. Yep, so I'm not sure if you can see, but there's like fricking scuffs on the inside of the controller and the whole thing on the outside, it's got some marks and stuff. This was definitely used, and I think they just did Now the real question 'cause like look, it's one thing if you buy used earbuds It's another thing, something that's on your face Like you don't want someone on your face, that's not cool. You know what it smells like? Tide Pods. There definitely was a lot of work done to actually get this cleaned up. My thought is this came in kind of dirty, and they tried to really especially for a VR headset. You want this to be nice I think it seems pretty fair. Guess who's back, back again Let's fire this up and but if it does, I mean, I might not be able to but I could at least recommend Like pretty good. Now the only problem with the Quest 2 is that the lenses do tend Now it's very much dependent on how you actually set the headset up. I wear glasses so there's an but also walking around here, If I want, I can open up and I should theoretically some high quality Austin Evans videos. I bought a lot of tech from This is a great experience. While I maybe slightly overpaid considering that I had to pay shipping, the Quest 2 is actually pretty solid. I think this is a good pickup if you're interested in trying VR and you will get into it at I mean I gotta say, I'm looking real good, just you know, real, real good. So let's take a look at this which I'm gonna assume did not come (laughs) via Amazon Prime. It's so rattly, I'm afraid it's just a Oh well I'll tell you what is floating is the big old power adapter, hollow chungus of a power adapter, what? The included cable's MFI certified to be compatible with Apple devices. That's not true 'cause JemJem is one of the, I but this is one of the companies that often will resell refurbish tech on lots of marketplaces, such as Amazon. So this came directly from JemJem. So $320, no shipping. So I would still think it's considering that this but let's just evaluate the condition. So say for acceptable on the outside, yeah, definitely some scuffs, but, I mean, actually pretty clean. Normally the Space Gray that sort of silvering, but this has tons of silvering on this. That makes me think that this and people plugged it in Let's open this up, but the outside is not So I'm afraid to see what's Oh that's lovely. So now that I've got it set up, it is running a copy of macOS Monterey. Now this is a 2019 MacBook Air, which means that we should be So it looks like it's a base model, so it's a dual core i5, so Oh my God! 623 cycles? That's like a full battery for five years straight. That is a lot of cycles. It does say that the condition is normal, so it actually doesn't but that's almost certainly why it is in sort of acceptable condition. Considering it has that many cycles, I'll actually say that this Like yeah, it's got some scuffs and stuff, but it's actually not bad. And the fact that the keyboard actually seems to be that's impressive. I guess I will give them that the acceptable condition is correct. I think that is spot on. If it had a better battery life, I actually think it's bordering on good, but because the battery has it's got a little bit of At least though, free shipping. (expressing concern) What the hell, are these drugs? - [Alex] (laughs) What? Why do you immediately jump to drugs? - So in excellent condition, this looks really clean. I mean certainly a little but I mean this is a 20-year-old console, 24-year-old console. The controller's really because not that PS2 but if I'm paying this kind I want a first party original DualShock, not like some freaking nonsense Mad Catz. That's a Mad Catz dammit, ah. Sorry, it's actually not a Mad Catz, but it's one of the reproductions. And now, to be fair, They're much cheaper, and this It doesn't feel like it's The real question is, does this PS2 work? Frigging better. Let's see what we got. That's a good sign. Yeah, all right! So we got Ah, it's a little dusty on the inside, but it comes out quite aggressively, which is good compared to Difficulty, we're gonna go two. All right- - Would you like to try? I didn't think so. Ah, I'm gonna dive-bomb him, Ah, I got it! - [Joanna] Maybe you (Alex laughs) - I am not thrilled with the fact that it did not come with It was sold to me as a very old console in excellent condition. You're always kind of Normally if I was gonna buy something that's a little bit on the older side, I would buy from eBay or a store where I actually could So I'll give them that but between the controller and the fact that it is just so expensive, I really don't think I Oh, don't look at that part, See, I'm back on the I gotta say, I'm feeling That's usually the point in the video in which everything goes real bad. So well let's see what we got next. Well it is very well A Z Flip 3! Look at that beautiful lilac color. Look man, I actually, this is super not scuffed. So a couple of minor things, so there's some stuff I wanna say though, that Now for context, this phone which at the time, was a pretty big deal because the Z Flip before it didn't have a 120 Hz display, yeah, that's coming up no problem. And it also had a tiny display. This whole bottom panel is the display, which is not amazing or anything, but it's actually pretty decent. You can still use it Considering that we've just a few years later, I personally think that's pretty solid. The question though, is what's it like on the inside? So it's gonna be kinda hard to see, but do you see there's a little bit of, almost like a dirty patch right here? What happens is that sometimes the screen protector that's built on will, I don't know if it's a but basically it'll start to You can just peel the screen what it leaves behind is but I'm almost positive that That's really, really clean. I actually like the white screen 'cause you can see if especially with OLEDs, you don't know how much they've been used. They do have a tendency to burn in, especially if you watched but that looks really clean. Am I a little bit biased Yes, yes I am. But if you're interested and you can pick up something man this is really good, to fully evaluate our Z Flip 3. Let's take a look at another item, which is our Beats Studio Buds headphones and I got them for $84.97. Wow, this is actually very premium. We've got ourselves we've got extra ear tips, we've got a sticker, the whole deal. What do we call this video now? What's the opposite of a scam? I got- - I got what I paid for. Oh yeah. I think that the Beats and especially considering the fact that you've got yourself that The thing that's more is definitely this Z Flip. Look at my hair. When did that happen? Now this should be our Xbox Series X. Now this is the only which is actually not This is from their Amazon warehouse, which I've gotta assume because it does advertise that and all the accessories and whatnot, for the grand total of $403. So $100 off of MSRP, about $50 less than it Oh, interesting, no, you know what? It's a little different than I thought. This is actually a refurbished Series X 'cause it comes in a different box. Oh interesting. I've So it actually specifically Interesting. We appreciate is that so this product, for the sake of life, lots of stickers, lots I almost wonder if this returned, maybe even a time or two 'cause that's a lot of stickers that they have gone through on this. Inside, we've got ourselves, so that's a good sign. The controller, looks pretty okay, What do we got? It's very dirty or very dusty, I think is the correct phrase. It's a little sticky, but the Like it's all sides, it's really strange. It's this freaking thing I think it was in there for long enough that this sort of foam sort because if this is me, I would actually really just to get that sort of foam remnant off. Let's plug this in, fire it up to make sure it actually works, make sure that we got ourselves a good, renewed deal from Amazon. Okay, our luck finally I So off camera, we were trying to get It was giving us HDMI So you can see that the It's plugged into this monitor. It wasn't working with We tried two different displays. We briefly got an actual So we started to go and then we literally unplugged it to move it from over there where we could shoot it, and We've tried multiple cables. We know that it worked with this monitor 'cause it was working with I'm wiggling the cable actually. I just saw the standby mode thing pop up. I think what probably happened is that someone bought this refurbished, or maybe returned it to begin with, and because it's an it wasn't caught. So when they plugged in at or whatever, they plugged They just turned around and The good thing is, it is Amazon, so we've got an easy So I don't really have any but not a very satisfying conclusion to what otherwise has been With that being said, I still to buy refurbished tech from Amazon, but let me know what you Like subscribe, follow me on Instagram because I'm gonna take that sucks that I buy from stores. You'll really just, it's a feed of just- - [Joanna] You don't wanna miss that. - You've been missing I see you. Follow me on Instagram. (upbeat music)