[Katy Perry's &quot;Firework&quot;] Newscaster: Zach Sobeich's soul is Zach Sobiech with clouds. Zach Sobiech was diagnosed with a deadly Katie Couric: After a four year battle Zach Sobiech died on News: His song &quot;Clouds&quot; reached number one hundred thousand dollars. from Stillwater, Minnesota who lost his battle form of bone cancer. Rock the Cause has the mom. One of the things you told me when you you had to put your hope into everything that Laura Sobiech: For me, in the cancer world a cure, hope for more time, all those different okay now what do I hope for. Because all those Laura: He died on a Monday and it was a Saturday And so when you would watch him, he was laying He would act like he was throwing a baseball At one point looked over and he was playing was, like he was wanting to grab somebody's And it was so warm and rough from the medication from the guitar and he grabbed my hand really he opened his eyes and I said, you don't have [alarm ringing] Rob: He died in the morning, You don't realize the emotion involved in Letting go was what it is. You're letting go of the connection It's tough, you know, we're a very stoic family Things happen in this world that aren't always positive. isn't it fair, and in the end it took me forty-nine you know what, Sam: The hardest part I think, The hardest part about him being gone Those are the worst. doing too. Because you get so focused on, next thing I have to do, and then that's when hard that he's gone. I was getting together to find that t-shirt, so I went down and I breaks everything in me. that his empty room was, like I felt like room and he wasn't there at all. to go and just be with him. I find more of Amy: There was one night, it was Sammy, Zach he found out his cancer had grown we stayed emotional and started crying and Zach went and we're like, we're really going to need Amy: Sammy and I have a crazy connection where anything and I know that she'll always have Sammy: She's probably the one who gets it yes she was Zach's girlfriend, but she was Sam: Our family dynamic I would describe as kind of like, it was like a duality kind of. born, Zach formed a deep bond with Grace. way of interacting with each other that I Amy: We both worry about Grace so much because from it. like going to this new school where Zach went not being able to like tell Zach about her Grace: Well, he was basically my other half ripped off of you. That's all. Alli: What's weird is nothing prepares you part was right before he died and then after I felt like I knew him in a way I have never He like creeps into my life on a daily basis, I had to move to Virginia, I got married eleven turbulent, and I didn't really have time to sad and I would miss my family and I was depressed a dog, a little wiener dog because Zach always brought him home, and I looked at the certificate birthday as Zach's. So it was kind of just Amy: This is me and a couple of Zach's closest we took a picture out by a lighthouse and group picture and then I looked on the comments Sammy: And she goes &quot;Oh my god!&quot; walking down the streets of Duluth, like no and there it was, but we never saw the cloud! Laura: I've only had one dream, we had his of their Spring concert. So I went to it after days later was of, I was walking to the front from the front to look at the auditorium, somebody and he just tipped his head like just so I could see him, [Sammy singing &quot;Clouds&quot;] Amy: Well, after he died there was just a Then his song spiked to number one on iTunes. day of his funeral, so it was a crazy mix Sammy: Nobody knew how they were going to that they would be totally, completely changed, And now like a year later it's not like I'm I had no expectations. I knew he was going was just a mystery. And now I'm here and I'm Amy: One time we just talked about what it just said &quot;you're going to be okay and eventually that you're never going to settle for anyone.&quot; which I don't think is possible. But I told lucky, I wouldn't trade anything and as hard him and be with him and be a part of this. He was the best guy I've ever known and probably Laura: There were times throughout our experience And so I did keep a journal, especially at that was intimidating though, I didn't think lose those memories if I didn't write them Sam: I think she knew that what had transpired make a huge difference to a lot of people seen anyone quite so driven to do something. project like that to jump in to because to to go back to life the way it was, you know, Rob: I read it from cover to cover in one before and I cried, I mean, I cried. it's a story about a kid who lives and brings and with the video, I mean it was a big story, happened too and that's the story I want to Radio Host: That's one of the amazing things walked up and I said hey Zach I'm with a label, in 146 countries, and his face lit up and he still wasn't grasping it. What I saw a for the big concert for Zach, which you talk the book where Zach wanted to get out and showed up, but seeing Zach evolve into this but he became this rockstar who knew that world with through his music, that was a cool Sam: I think above all, above all this stuff a hero to a lot of people, even before any was that he was my brother, and he was human Grace: He always makes his way in, I guess he's trying to keep something, he would just try to do a thing and I guess I haven't really realized it until there quietly, waiting for me to notice him. Laura: Thank you guys for coming out tonight. So not long ago Zach was a very average kid I remember one afternoon I found him lying in the room I could tell there was something wrong?&quot; And that's when he started to cry. in high school would be doing, but instead figure out how to do this thing, how to live Rob: It's not about what job you're going how much money you're going to make when you or eighty years old, if you're fortunate enough guys are, you're going to look back and say Rob: There's this world where people go to they might buy a boat, they have kids. But there's mind, spirituality, connecting with people, Alli: When it comes down to it, it's the relationships important thing, how you treat other people Laura: With everything that happened around song and all of the outpouring of people around of humanity. Because what I see is that we desperate for hope and for love. If I had I am a blessed woman, He was a great kid.