Everything is made of atoms. Yes, even you. The core is made of protons and neutrons. get different elements. is some Sodium. Hm, I wonder what happens Quantum mechanics tells us that this is not like this, but we'll get to that later. electron "shells". The electrons in the Most of chemistry is really just the behaviour Every element is listed in the periodic table. have the same number of valence electrons. electrons is just the group number from 1 to have 8 electrons, it can only have 2. But kind of just grouped in with those. Luckily, That was a lie, it's kind of a mess. But get to that later. tend to show similar behaviour in chemical hydrogen, is called the "alkali metals". They have one valence electron. They're they do this sometimes. have the same number of shells. This number gets bigger from left to right, as each element Depending on the number of neutrons in the element, most of which are pretty unstable, Fun fact! That stuff will kill you. as protons, it has no charge. If it has more, it has a positive charge. Charged atoms are and positive ions are "cations". The periodic table is also as every cell tells you: of protons in the core, which is also the which is the mass of neutrons and protons The periodic table is roughly divided into metals. Right of it are the non-metals, which "semimetals", which have properties that Two or more atoms bonded together form a molecule. you get a "compound". Oh yeah, this is often behave completely differently than the an explosive metal and a toxic gas, and you salt. You get tablesalt. example the Molecular formula, where you just and write them as a subscript number next But that has some problems. Look at these formula, but obviously, they're not the Showing this difference is probably kind of graphite from diamonds, because they're don't think anyone's going to go "mmm, expensive". a Lewis-Dot-Structure, which represents the That is also going to help us understand why You see, everything in the universe wants why a ball on a hill will roll down by itself, This trend also applies to atoms: The state outer shell of electrons, which is most often two. If you think back to the periodic table, have a full outer shell, which is why they If two atoms don't have a full outer shell, they will naturally do so, the same way a would be lower than if they were separate. bond". These bonds are also caused by the on electrons of another atom. The strength In the periodic table, the electronegativity Therefore, Fluorine has the strongest pull. electron. bigger than about 1.7, you get an ionic bond. would do anything for an electron, while Sodium get rid of it anyway. "Perfect!" they loses an electron and turns into a cation, an anion. That seems pretty important...you The most common place you see Ionic bonds generally, when metals and nonmetals bond, of ions. bonds". You can imagine this as a huge grid surrounded by freely moving electrons. You are kind of promiscuous, or as nerds call in a giant playground of nuclei, instead of This kind of bond is of metals, like conducting electricity and heat, and also, being malleable, as in being stuff until it's the most deformed, unelegant and it will just limp along as if nothing If the difference in electronegativity is pretty equally and you get a nonpolar covalent than around 1.7, one of the elements is pulling enough to completely steal an electron, but a bit, making it a polar covalent bond. electronegativity compared to hydrogen. As so hard, that they kind of belong to oxygen, hydrogen with a partial positive charge. The is called a "electric dipole". with each other, and really, with anything will tug on each other and arrange themselves next to each other. The forces acting between or IMFs. hydrogen bonds to something very electronegative, strong dipoles that tug on each other. there can be electrostatic forces acting between them. How? Electrons move around inside atoms, side of the atom, creating a momentary dipole, to become a dipole as well. At least for a and the dipole disappears. This is called The polarity of water also explains why it's one of the most versatile solvents to exist. charges, and it keeps them apart by surrounding Water cannot dissolve nonpolar molecules though. mix, since fat molecules are nonpolar, while Just remember the ancient saying: "Similia or in a language that's things will dissolve Fun fact! Soap works because the molecules that it's made from, which have a polar "head", and a nonpolar "tail". for example nonpolar fat molecules and form transport the dirt particles away. ranked by strength: [Ionic Bonds, Covalent der Waals Forces] There are three main states of matter: Solid, Solids are tightly packed in a fixed structures, you know, you smash them. In liquids, the to a fixed volume, as the forces between them and the particles in gases have enough energy all the volume you give them. Temperature is the average kinetic energy how fast they move and entropy is the amount Substances tend to be solid at low temperature low entropy, as they're neatly organized temperature and/or low pressure, where they of high entropy. melting points, as they take a lot of energy apart. That's why most salts are solid at only being held together by hydrogen bonds, Well, actually (!), there's another state can exist at very high temperatures, such The latter is used for neon lights. Gas is Collosions of the ions with other particles state. Once they falls back down, the difference The colour of the light depends on the element has different, but fixed energy levels, and energy and therefore the frequency of the colour. All possible frequencies, that an spectrum". Pure substances, which can consist of one Mixtures consist of at least two pure substances and can be homogeneous or means the substances will mix evenly and the in water, which is a "solution". on where you look. They have distinct regions sand in water, which is called a "suspension". same everywhere, so it must be homogeneous! or more precisely an "emulsion". The difference doesn't fully dissolve in the solvent, meaning but smaller particles than in a suspension. This allows the particles but not fully dissolved, placing them somewhere Hey remember sodium and water? What's going reactions that release a lot of energy in like, a lot. synthesis, decomposition, single replacement, for each one. decrease energy and get to a more stable state. for example, to produce water molecules, you to oxygen. This is called "Stoichiometry". of mass, which says that mass cannot be created when dealing with reaction equations, you amount of atoms on each side of the equation, As a rule of thumb, you should balance out hydrogen and oxygen at the end. But, it's is balanced. happen in a lab, how would we know that we compared to oxygen? You can't just take of that, because the atoms don't weigh the amount of particles. Just look up the atomic mass of the reactants exactly this amount of particles. That is kind of like "a dozen". In other words, this react with 1 mole of that, which we can It's important to differentiate between only take place in the latter. Physical change substance does not, for example hammering substances themselves change and this is often you guessed it, explosions. to take place. Wood won't just spontaneously you know, the planet would be on fire, but reduce the activation energy needed for a faster. And as a neat bonus, they don't can just reuse them! energy, it's quite useful to keep track "Enthalpy" is, simply put, the internal total enthalpy of a reaction is lower at the off to the surroundings, which is an "exothermic" reaction is "endothermic". can be spontaneous. It's kind of like a if you push it a little bit, but then it will burning on its own. But in endothermic reactions, a ball uphill. That doesn't just spontaneously To get the whole picture, we have to look of enthalpy but also entropy of a system which If this whole thing is less than zero, the because free energy was released. If it's or not spontaneous, because free energy was Here's where temperature and entropy come the reaction is endothermic, if the change and make the total free energy negative, which is strongly dependent on the temperature. because it absorbs heat, but also, it increases ice turns to water, which is just kind of only if the temperature is above 0. If it's which is exothermic. take place spontaneously. In other words, Chemical equilibriums exist when reversible both directions, which means that even if of both sides stay the same, and to someone be happening. changes, but also acid base chemistry. molecule that donates protons, while bases a hydrogen ion. at least one hydrogen that it can throw away it up can be a base. This also means that opposite, as an acid that gave away a proton do. a base is called &quot;amphoteric&quot;. A strong acid will dissociate almost completely to the water and therefore creating lots of nearly as much, giving us a lower concentration So, to measure the strength of an acid we ions. This is called the "pH". log of the hydronium concentration, which and also, since it's a negative log, the For example. Pure water is There's exactly one hydronium ion for every 10 million water molecules. In other words, million, or 1 times 10^-7. Taking the negative log of this gives us a pH neutral. above is "basic", unlike you. and you will get the pOH, which keep track add up to 14, because they counteract each if you have a strong base and a strong acid not explode, they will neutralize by forming For example, Hydrochloride and Sodium Hydroxide Oh yeah, speaking of table salt, remember transfers an electron to chlorine? Well that "redox". elements, the sodium gets oxidized as it loses as it gains an electron. Logically, Sodium Of course not, that would make sense, it's More accurately, redox reactions are reactions which are kind of like imaginary charges. to figure those out: halogens are mostly -1, single elements are a molecule always have to add up to the molecule's ions just have their charge as the oxidation have 4 oxygens, which totals -8, we have two since the whole molecule is neutral, sulfur Just by looking at the oxidation numbers of flow of electrons, which If redox reactions happen in acidic or basic solutions, you can balance out the charges water. Okay, now to this weird looking thing. I spared this is very simple, and this not. But, this don't orbit in circles. Here's how it All electrons inside an atom are described N corresponds to the shells, so all electrons Within the shells we have subshells, with regions in space where electrons could be. equation, which gives a probabilistic wave the denser it is, the more likely an electron L describes the shape and ml the orientation There are four subshells called s, p, d and in the same subshell. If electrons have the Also, the number of orbitals increases by just one for s. property of electrons called "spin", which Some guy named Pauli said two electrons can inside one atom. Since ms can only have two can hold a maximum of 2 electrons with opposite Therefore the s subshell can hold 2 electrons, and f can hold 14. like this, which means that the first shell have an s and a p subshell, and so on. total of 2 electrons, the second can hold number of electrons a shell can hold follows number. The principal quantum number, and from top to bottom in the periodic table, Every element has a different number of electrons subshells and orbitals are filled in a specific write down the subshells like this and draw To get an electron configuration, just look in the periodic table, and fill up the subshells left. This would be the electron configuration You can also look up the next smallest noble electron configuration as the base, because for any bigger elements. This is also how transition metals. Just look up their electron next smallest noble gas, and the remaining peasy. you one subscribe and a thumbs up, thank you I shall now guide you, fine person, to the for you.