Sonia Choquette: Are you ready start to experience a life where feel helped you feel like the universe has your back? cat, welcome to my channel. If I imagined that maybe your you here and we're so I'm so find something today, that could life a little easier. If you're so grateful that you're with me. some time, as you know, on how how to become higher frequency drama, and the struggle and the ego, which is never safe, never up from that third dimension, fifth dimension, which really is and collaboration and love, and spirit with flow. Today, I want connect with your spirit guides, that affirms to you that you are have to just close your eyes and it, you'll actually have an divine support. So the first to connect with the spirit world connecting to your own spirit. personality, it's not your struggle. It's your essence. loves freely, that's creative. available that's that's lot of you may say, Well, I let's focus on that. To connect thing I'm going to invite you to So you'll help yourself but also What do you love? That is an what brings you joy? What makes where do you lose yourself in in feels like it's connected to neighbor in Chicago, who was the critical, crabby, we act a couple of things that were best out of him. He loved neighbors and bring them and cupcakes and. And that was spirit. And it was a little that many of the neighbors knew at the kids. And don't let your know, don't make so much noise. beautiful, beautiful baked neighbor loved was gardening. He had a pristine yard. Those two was an Earth Spirit. That is a loves being grounded, who loves cooking is because you're that come from the earth. He watering it he loved being in beloved earth spirit, was what neighborhood shifted and changed In his eulogy everybody talked person that he was but the that made such beautiful, up at parties unannounced that leave and and was too shy to because mix it up is not what don't roll. I have another who cries at everything. She parade. She's always i talking french Olympics opening ceremony was in in London and she was in just sobbing she goes I don't all those people and they're are all so creative, and they're some of what they're doing, I their intention to, to perform celebrate humanity. And she a water spirit. What are spirits can tell the water spirits, eyes, and I'm a pretty watery opening ceremonies myself. So in you that feels, the spirit in common ground of humanity that people's experience and emotions water spirit and you resonate deeply the the human experience. maybe you're a spirit who loves to teach, to explain, to make of support to be of assistance your nature is leans in that we're not all in one or the you as a communicator, likes to like to listen. They're the ones what's happening in the world. that care about communicating. books, a lot of air spirit in me the doers, the people who, whose exercise, biking, running, skydiving, you know sky jumping just like to do like to, to things that's a Fire Spirit, there are those of us in the basically a bit antagonistic. to argue back challenge, I'm not going with that. That we call an etheric spirit, that make other people crazy. other people break out of their patience, practice, practice clear. So that provocative, us grow. So when you're working valuable to think of yourself as with many layers, little water a lot of fire, but not an ego, rather a divine force. It's through the universe, through to this fabulous experience and recognize and experience becomes a whole lot easier to ego doesn't want to your ego has influence unless it chooses to then wants everybody to take that's a disappointment to nobody does a good job. So when spirit and instantly elevate second thing you want to do to is to recognize that we are in a you get out of the drama, the just waiting for you. Waiting uplift you inspire you works So your spirit guides assist to divine coaches. If you ever gives you guidance and encouragement. But the coach for you to do. Now, let's look at some of the spirit spirit guides are going to be your guardian angel comes to be life to help you stay in body guide you to the elements that your divine intentions, angels actually physically embody and had that happen, where all of a and someone shows up out of minute or two and then the next remember years ago, I wrote psychic pathway. And my and two and, and we were young mom completely exhausted. slept, I was sleep deprived, time, couldn't sleep, had for divine support and making it. I wasn't doing well, And I got this incredible myself, which was very unlike with my husband and my kids and home together. So to take a trip invitation. But I was encouraged deprived. It was like do nothing days. So agreeing to that I took fabulous because it was January in Chicago and I loved leaving first two days that I was there, surprised first the trip into this quiet room. Beautiful just zonked out. I really of my healer guidance working just had this sudden notion to though it was raining outside, walked along the beach for a got this intuition to go into a bookstores, a woman nerves that bookstore, not terribly big. And a package of aromatherapy says really involved in that. So she me know if you need any help. So store, just kind of in a stupor, coming or going. I this room. And he came up to me said were old friends. And I remember black but glowing in a white beautiful smile and lyrical waiting for you. And I laughed new age bookstore. Why not? I'll believe in these things. And he And he walked over to a bin of poster of an angel. But she was said, This is you. And I definitely the trash pile I know definitely feel this way. And poster and he said, This is what it was a picture of a male Angel they were flying together and he partner And don't forget to with those two posters thinking from two little babies and and overworked and we just were And we certainly hadn't danced that's good information. That's I'll be right back. And he went standing there holding those two counter looked up at me and she some help? Do you wanna get okay. The man in the back is like I was nuts. And she said, was just here that went in the said, there's nobody here and I hime. And she loves me like you counter goes in the back room. there. Comes back out here I am angels. So there's no one here. and I thought that was my he got my attention and he me back to my spirit back to my incredible transformational crying. But I knew I'd be okay. just took another couple of days got to make peace. We got to back in. And we did that. At the needed. So your guardian angels way. They step in and out, but ordinary people, although mine white outfit on. But they, dramatic. They're just matter of and then retreat. I have 1000s shared with me their fantastic angels are our first guides. So in our comments. Have you ever And if you think Well, I'm not Because that opens the door your spirit connection. Now, you have you find your keys and your you're looking for. I'll talk video. We have Teacher guides, the emissaries of the third ray so beautiful. And they're the the time. And just give me all sharing for all these years. And guides that just want to help guides and my healer guide sent can send you to a book or you'll overhear a conversation or hear doctor or healer or helper. things that a healer guide can guides can do is is just give different. Like that would take when you're ready to plow into might say, you know, eating a gluten could be good for you. subtle and understated. They a lot of light beings coming in. elevate to a higher dimension. bit more with you over the next guides. But most of all, two this week are one What can a spirit? Are you nurturing? Are adventurous? Are you cared all of it? Are you an be contemplative and quiet? Are likes to stir things up? All of beautiful spirits. And it's are and to recognize the spirit distracted by their your barking dog. And then by looking at when is an angel whole life has anyone ever shown you are suddenly protected? I and she said they were in LA. was a big earthquake and they they were staying in a hotel and months old. And they had put her put her in the crib, in the chandelier. And in the morning. tremendous jolt with the with ran to the crib. And all they floor and a feather in the soundly sleeping. That's an but you know what's more things I invite you to do this on in the notes your what type can be a combination of earthen fire and air I'm action and everybody grazie they keep need as spirits is to understand of all of that and then share when we start talking about them start having more of them. So But we're going to continue this about more next week. If you're enjoyed this reflection. Think own spirit isn't that beautiful consider giving me a thumbs up because that keeps our channel going and supported. Bring your your comments. They are so This is a form where we can all frequency and begin to to evolve. So that's what we're we're going to be talking about living in a higher vibration. So tuning in. And I'll see you all