So, this happy pic of me I was a senior in college, and it was right after a dance practice. I was really, really happy. And I remember exactly where I was I was sitting in the back in a campus parking lot, when I decided I was going to commit suicide. I went from deciding And I came this close It's the closest I've ever come. And the only reason I took was thanks to a few lucky coincidences. And after the fact, that's what scared me the most: So I became very methodical that I could manage my ups and downs, which has proven to be Many normal people might have, in their lives. I have bipolar depression. I've had 50-plus at this point, and I've learned a lot. I've had a lot of at-bats, many rounds in the ring with darkness, taking good notes. So I thought rather than get up or highlight reel, I would share my recipe and certainly self-paralysis. And the tool I've found which has proven for emotional free fall is actually the same tool that has helped me to make But that is secondary. And it is ... stoicism. That sounds boring. (Laughter) You might think of Spock, or it might conjure and image like this -- (Laughter) a cow standing in the rain. It's not sad. It's not particularly happy. It's just an impassive creature taking You might not think of the ultimate head coach of the New England Patriots, who has the all-time NFL record And stoicism has spread like wildfire as a means of mental toughness You might not think Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, to name but three students of stoicism. George Washington actually had this was &quot;Cato, a Tragedy&quot; -- performed for his troops at Valley Forge So why would people of action This seems very academic. I would encourage you to think as an operating system for thriving for making better decisions. And it all started here, kind of, on a porch. So around 300 BC in Athens, someone named Zeno of Citium walking around a painted porch, a &quot;stoa.&quot; That later became &quot;stoicism.&quot; And in the Greco-Roman world, people used stoicism for doing many, many things. But for our purposes, chief among them to separate what you can control and then doing exercises on the former. This decreases emotional reactivity, which can be a superpower. Conversely, let's say You miss a pass. That could cost you a game. If you're a CEO, and you fly because of a minor infraction, that could cost you the employee. If you're a college student and you feel helpless and hopeless, unabated, that could cost you your life. So the stakes are very, very high. And there are many tools I'm going to focus on one It found me then because of two things: a very close friend, young guy, my age, and then my girlfriend, who I thought She'd had enough, and she didn't but she did give me this, a Dear John plaque. (Laughter) I'm not making this up. I've kept it. &quot;Business hours are over at five o'clock.&quot; She gave this to me because at the time, I was working I had no idea what I was doing. seven days a week. I was using stimulants to get going. I was using depressants It was a disaster. I felt completely trapped. I bought a book on simplicity And I did find a quote which was, &quot;We suffer more often by Seneca the Younger, who was a famous Stoic writer. That took me to his letters, which took me to the exercise, &quot;premeditatio malorum,&quot; which means the pre-meditation of evils. In simple terms, this is visualizing the worst-case preventing you from taking action, so that you can take action My problem was monkey mind -- Just thinking my way I needed to capture my thoughts on paper. So I created a written exercise that I called &quot;fear-setting,&quot; for myself. It consists of three pages. Super simple. The first page is right here. &quot;What if I ...?&quot; This is whatever you fear, whatever is causing you anxiety, whatever you're putting off. It could be asking someone out, ending a relationship, asking for a promotion, It could be anything. For me, it was taking and stepping away from my business where I could stay to either remove myself or shut it down. In the first column, &quot;Define,&quot; you're writing down all of the worst if you take that step. You want 10 to 20. I won't go through all of them, One was, I'll go to London, the whole thing will be Number two, I'll miss and I'll get audited or raided or shut down or some such. And then you go to the &quot;Prevent&quot; column. In that column, you write What could I do to prevent or, at the very least, decrease So for getting depressed in London, I could take a portable blue light with me and use it for 15 minutes in the morning. I knew that helped stave off For the IRS bit, I could change so the paperwork would go to my accountant instead of to my UPS address. Easy-peasy. Then we go to &quot;Repair.&quot; So if the worst-case scenarios happen, what could you do to repair or who could you ask for help? So in the first case, London, well, I could fork over some money, undo the damage, if I got into a funk. In the case of missing I could call a friend who is a lawyer or ask, say, a professor of law what they would recommend, who I should talk to, So one question to keep in mind Has anyone else in the history of time less intelligent or less driven figured this out? Chances are, the answer is &quot;Yes.&quot; (Laughter) The second page is simple: What might be the benefits You can see we're playing up the fears and really taking a conservative So if you attempted whatever might you build confidence, emotionally, financially, otherwise? What might be the benefits Spend 10 to 15 minutes on this. Page three. This might be the most important, &quot;The Cost of Inaction.&quot; Humans are very good at considering if we try something new, What we don't often consider not changing anything. So you should ask yourself, if I avoid this action or decision and actions and decisions like it, what might my life look like in, Any further out, it starts And really get detailed -- physically, whatever. And when I did this, it painted I was self-medicating, my business was going to implode if I didn't step away. My relationships were fraying or failing. And I realized that inaction Those are the three pages. That's it. And after this, I realized one being minimal impact, if I took the trip, I was risking a one to three of temporary for an eight to 10 of positive, that could be a semi-permanent. So I took the trip. None of the disasters came to pass. There were some hiccups, sure. I was able to extricate myself I ended up extending that trip and that became the basis that leads me here today. And I can trace all of my biggest wins and all of my biggest disasters averted back to doing fear-setting at least once a quarter. It's not a panacea. You'll find that some of your fears (Laughter) But you shouldn't conclude that without first putting them And it doesn't make all the hard times, but it can make a lot of them easier. I'd like to close with a profile This is Jerzy Gregorek. He is a four-time world champion political refugee, published poet, 62 years old. He can still kick my ass and probably He's an impressive guy. I spent a lot of time asking life and training advice. He was part of the Solidarity in Poland, which was a nonviolent that was violently suppressed He lost his career as a firefighter. Then his mentor, a priest, and thrown into a river. He was then threatened. He and his wife had to flee Poland, until they landed in the US sleeping on floors. He now lives in Woodside, California, and of the 10,000-plus people I would put him in the top 10, in terms of success and happiness. And there's a punchline coming, I sent him a text a few weeks ago, asking him: Had he ever read And he replied with two pages of text. This is very unlike him. (Laughter) And not only was he familiar but he pointed out, for all his inflection points, when he stood up how he had used stoicism which blew my mind. And he closed with two things. Number one: he couldn't imagine than that of a Stoic. And the last was his mantra, and you can apply to everything: &quot;Easy choices, hard life. Hard choices, easy life.&quot; The hard choices -- what we most fear doing, asking, saying -- these are very often exactly And the biggest challenges will never be solved whether it's in your own head So I encourage you to ask yourselves: Where in your lives right now might defining your fears be more Keeping in mind all the while, &quot;We suffer more often Thank you very much. (Applause)