It is a huge amount of vegetables. That's massive. It's all hospitality to customers. That is so lovely. Even though I can buy this at the stores, I would like to cook it by myself so that it tastes unique and original. Did you do some seasonings on this meat? Yes, I did with curry powders. I cut them into tiny pieces to make it easy to eat. It takes a while until the flavor soaked in. Especially for white radishes. You can see some progress in cooking. This soup is mostly made from vegetable juice such as onions. Therefore it is very healthy and good for your body. I see so much vegetables in the pot. Yes, it is a huge amount of vegetables. They will all get cooked and soaked into the soup. It's done. These are wheat flour, potato starch and baking powder. I added some sake too. The flavor, the way I cook and seasoning are all my own way. I cook the rice in the way of making it a little hard. I do this with my hand but It is hotter than it seems. Welcome Please have a seat over there. This curry rice is massive. it's tasty. Thank you for waiting. We have been excited for this. Very good. These dishes seem to be huge portions, are there any specific reasons for that? Not really. Ever since I opened the restaurant, all of the dishes have been this big. Are all of the dishes this big? Yes, all of them. This restaurant is not located near the station so people drive here and take time to come here. I would feel sorry if customers get disappointed with the portionY= of the foods. So I have made them big since I opened the restaurant. It is all about hospitality to customers. That is lovely. I doodled little shrimps down here. How many people are there in your group? 3 of us are together. 3 people. I got it. Thank you. I enjoyed Braised pork meal. Thank you for waiting, here you are, braised pork set meal. Thank you for waiting, Mapo tofu set meal and Gyoza, here you are. Everything is good but my favorite is Gyoza. Is Gyoza your go to meal? Yes, it is so good. It is Gyoza half price sale day. I have to keep making Gyoza. This chicken is a famous brand chicken. We have too cook now or we will run out of them anytime soon. How long have you been working at this restaurant? It has been 2 years. At first, I came here to help them then started working and I have been working for 2 years now. Were you just a helper at first? Yes, I was here only once or twice a week at first. Then I started working more often. I assume that you are a professional now. I hope so. I can not describe with words but I am so addicted to this taste. I doodled little shrimps down here. I am bad at drawing. They are cute. How many people are there in your group? 3 of us are together. 3 people. I got it. The waiting queue is long. Really? (We are open) I am going to take you to the seat. How many plates of fried rice are you cooking now? I can not count the amount of plates. You can see the oil on the pan. Since the temperature is low, it is suitable for cooking the meat. It cooks the meat softly Is it important to cook with low temperature? Yes, that's correct. I put away the oil while meat is still red. I add the vegetables that I cooked earlier. Thank you for waiting, Stir-fried liver and garlic chives meal set is here. This queue is for dine in. Is there anybody who is taking out the food? This queue is for take out. the line for dine in is over there. (Gyoza Day) You can take some candies. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you for waiting, Mapo tofu set meal and Gyoza, here you are. Thank you. All the meals have a lot of portion. We are so full. How was the taste? Yes, it was so good. Which meal did you like the most? I enjoyed Braised pork meal. Thank you for waiting, Braised pork meal set, here you are. That is so much gyoza. Yes, so much amount. All I do today is to cook Gyoza. Do you keep making gyoza all day long? That's right. We have to be careful to not run out of ingredients. You have been cooking gyoza since this morning. Yes, I have been. I will keep making until 8 PM today. On our Gyoza Day, it is always like this and I keep making gyoza. Do you have any tips to make good gyoza? I only use the tips of my fingers. I can cook faster when I use only the tips of my fingers. Thank you for waiting your meal is here. You have to take time to cook fried noodles. You have to try not to rush because the inside might be still cold. My older brother taught me how to cook. Every time I cook, I can hear his voice in my head. There is not a day that I don't recall my older brother because I cook every day. Thank you for waiting, Stir-fried liver and garlic chives meal set is here. Thank you for waiting, Fried chicken with sweet and sour sauce and gyoza, here you are. Thank you for waiting, Stir-fried liver and garlic chives meal set is here. Everything is good but my favorite is Gyoza. So tasty. Meals are so cheap. I really enjoyed fried noodles. Stir-fried liver and garlic chives meal had a big portion and its taste was also very good. Stir-fried liver and garlic chives meal was twice as big as I expected. I am very full now. Beer goes so well with the meal. Please. The ginger meat fried rice is really delicious. I feel alive because the fried rice is delicious. Yes. thank you very much. Thank you. I want customers to eat it too. Because I like myself. It's green onions, liver and char siu egg! It's a green onion lever. please. I don't think I can eat it. Are you okay? It's okay. Thank you. That's the meat used for cooking. What is the origin of the name of the shop? This is my name. Is that so? Yes. Adding &quot;meal&quot; to my name means &quot;tawarameshi&quot;. It's easy to understand! The name of the restaurant comes from my name, not because it's a big serving. If I went to a sports high school, I would be in the same class as a famous sumo wrestler (Asashoryu). Use a special part of the liver. We will carefully select and bring them to the shop. You cut the liver thickly, don't you? Yes. Because I also like thick levers. I don't think there are many thickly cut livers at other restaurants. I want to cut it to the size I want to eat. It looks like this. It's quite thick. Yes. This is delicious! That's why I want customers to eat it too. Because I like thick liver. Thank you. Why did you decide to make it big? The university is in front of the store. An athletic student asked me, &quot;Isn't there a large serving?&quot; There was no large serving, so I said, &quot;50 yen is fine!&quot; He was very happy. I thought that if I could make customers happy like this, I would make the large portion free. Before you know it, it's just like this! Please. Go ahead. Sorry I made you wait. Yakiniku rice. Thank you for waiting. please. Yes. thank you very much. Yes. thank you very much. Last time, the ginger meat fried rice was so delicious that I couldn't forget it. so I came back to this store in less than a week. When I came last time, the staff said &quot;thank you very much&quot; with a big smile on my face, so I thought I'd like to come again. It was great. The store clerk is refreshing! Thank you. Thank you for waiting for ginger fried rice! Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. I'll come back later. Thank you. Thank you very much. What is your favorite dish? Negi liver and char siu egg. These are the two options. When I came by myself, I only ate either one. Sorry to keep you waiting. It's a leek lever. please. Wow! ! thank you. I can't seem to eat it! Are you okay? It's okay. It's crazy. I wanted to eat. Lettuce fried rice. please. With egg fried rice! Egg fried rice! yes! How was it? You really feel that you are alive. What is your favorite menu item? There is ginger mea fried rice, and I just love eating it at home by myself. It's so delicious that you'll feel alive. I love this restaurant. Yes. Sorry I made you wait. Yes. please. I really like the katsudon at this restaurant. Here you are. It's katsudon. On Saturday and Sunday mornings, we fry about 70 cutlets. Welcome. Many customers come to our shop through social media. Customers of all ages come to our store. Did you eat the soba? Yes. I ate. How was it? It was delicious. Kakiage tempura and green onion beef bowl. Thank you very much. Thank you for the meal. Which menu item was the most recommended? I really like this store's katsudon because it's thick and filling. How did you find out about this restaurant? My parents introduced me to this store. Thank you for waiting. It's a katsudon.