Handle from a German sapper shovel. I chose this dugout. I dug to the bottom to pump out the water, and found this handle from a shovel. The depth of the dugout is up to my chest. Now I'm going to start clearing this area. At the exit of the dugout, almost at the bottom, I found a wooden handle from a German M24 grenade. 1942 There are minor damage. In the process of excavation, I found the second part of the grenade (head part), and next to it was another similar grenade. Here is some leather. And this is a folding shovel of the Wehrmacht. Too bad the handle is broken. Entrance to the dugout. To the left of the entrance were bunks. This is a German grenade handle. Part of the waist belt is visible nearby. I have already dug out the head part of the grenade. Belt without buckle. There is a leather strap on the floor. And next to it lies an Esbit (a small stove for heating food). Instructions for use are shown on the surface. This is a rare find. This is the first time I've found it in such good condition. I'm moving along the aisle. These are parts of the wooden structure of the dugout. There is a leather German ammo pouch. Wooden box without lid. I removed a piece of wood, and now I will get the pouch. German ammo pouch Here is stigma. 1938 Under the pouch is a white German helmet. The helmet is in good condition. In the place where the helmet was in contact with the tree, there are areas of heavily rusted. Very good. Big size. You can see the silhouette of the decal under the paint. At the entrance to the dugout again finds. Sartridges and machine-gun belts. Now I'm digging to the right of the entrance. It's broken wooden box for cartridges. And this is a smoking pipe. Nearby are a sheath from a German bayonet knife. Under the box is another scabbard. somewhere there must be bayonets On the second day, the weather worsened. it was frosty at night I have already begun to dig out the second half of the dugout. Here, too, there were bunk beds, under which lies a box. One more boxes. These are the remains of a box of German marmalade. Very bad condition. All that's left of a box of marmalade. 11,5 kg This is luck! German waist belt with buckle. Every time there was no buckle on the belt, but not this time! I cleaned the belt. And details of various military boxes. In this corner, if you look closely, you can see a German bayonet-knife. and broken bottle... Many bottles lying on the floor were crushed under the ground. And there was a crushed margarine bowl on the floor. Fortunately, the dugout is rich in finds. All parts of the knife are in good condition. The handle of a bayonet-knife with wooden lining. I haven't found a stigma yet. Partially preserved bluing. A little cleaning and it will be a wonderful exhibit. I dug up a few unbroken bottles. Remains of German and Soviet newspapers. Soviet newspaper &quot;PRAVDA&quot; I have already excavated 3/4 of the dugout. There is very little left. This is a lid from a camping cookware, with an iron handle. And leather hanger for bayonet-knife Good preserve. Here is stigma. German carbine cleaning kit. Already the final stage of excavations. Now I'll start sorting out the poles on the floor. This is the third waist belt in this dugout. This wall is hanging. The soil squeezed out the wooden walls of the dugout. You have to dig carefully. Morning of a new day. That corner collapsed, and I decided to stop excavations until today. During the night, underground water filled the dugout, so now I will pump out this water. By the way, it was cold at night. You can even see the icicles. I covered the finds. Hid them from the sun. Now we need to remove that belt, and then check the ground under the wooden floors. Belt with buckle. The belt is very flexible. Like it was made yesterday. Steel buckle. Not perfect, but still in good condition. I've finished excavating this dugout. A wooden military box, several M24 grenade handles, machine-gun belts... Good condition. 1942 1941 little bottle Two teethpaste tubes BLENDEX jar for margarine leather parts scabbards shovel k98 cleaning kit Esbit smoking pipe here is stigma helmet Various metal parts. 3 kopecks 1940 ammo pouch lid in very good condition one more bottle belts first belt witout buckle 1938 This belt with buckle And this too bayonet As a result, there were a lot of finds in the dugout. Thank you all for watching. I wish you good health!