(chiming tune) - [Falcon] Man, guys, have you seen that new game, &quot;Crimson Desert&quot;? Looks incredible. It's gonna be the best new IP ever! Uh, wait, uh, it's from &quot;Black Desert Online&quot; and it's got characters from that game in it and everything? Okay, so, it's not exactly a new IP, but it is looking impressive as hell from the preview footage (sword thudding) Hi, folks, it's Falcon let's talk about an open world action game that could be the next big IP. So, if you haven't heard of because there's a whole lot to talk about. &quot;Crimson Desert&quot; has had a long and tumultuous development cycle, but in its final current form, it is a single player and a very ambitious one at that. There's a lot of ingredients I'm talking some &quot;Elden a heaping helping of &quot;Dragon's Dogma II&quot;, or I guess it's been in that it's probably drawn but also throw in some Why not? (Kliff grunts) It almost sounds too good to be true. And in a lot of these trailers, and not just in a trailer There is a ton of footage out there besides this 50-minute frigging but some people have and play the game at events like Gamescom, and impressions are very good. There are a few warning signs, but from everything we've seen and heard, there's potential for &quot;Crimson Desert&quot; to be an actual, like, dream game. Like one to actually watch out for it. Like, I don't mean like &quot;The That's not what we're talking about. The developers aren't nobodies either. The game is being made by Pearl Abyss, the Korean developers &quot;Black Desert Online&quot;. They're also the same guys who that's currently floating but only because reportedly off that game to finish The one thing you have is they're ambitious and we've seen of this game. (swords whoosh) (power chiming) (slash whooshes) If there's one thing that it's the level of detail These environments are, I mean, they're absolutely massive. They look a lot more natural than what you normally see where there's tons of little points of interest carefully designed to draw your attention in that way. &quot;Crimson Desert&quot; looks but a whole hell of a lot more realistic. (hooves clopping) (character grunts) (hooves clopping) (character grunts) (hooves clopping) - [Falcon] Obviously, how everything ties together in the end, but there's combat, stealth, and it appears like there's also crafting and loot collecting, and a The meat of the game which is what they've shown the most of, and it looks spectacular. I can't quite pin down what the Almost like a cross and how fast and brutal it appears to be with little &quot;Dragon's Dogma&quot;, with all the physics stuff going on where you're throwing guys around and climbing on the backs of monsters with some gonzo no more hero stuff. There's wrestling moves in this game, and at one point, it appears has some kung fu moves. In the 50-minute trailer, there's a part where you grab It looks nuts, but most (character grunts) (enemy grunts) (swords clang) (Kliff grunts) (Kliff grunts) (characters grunting) There's also boss fights, too, and they also look really good, a little more conventional we've seen in the trailers. I mean, there's some I mean, did you see the Da or what looked like a robot? Like, this is a fantasy a little weird, and I'm The real fun is when you're grappling guys to the ground and doing spin kicks to stun shield guys and creating an opening for yourself. It all controls like a &quot;Souls&quot; game from what I'm seeing in the trailers. R1's light attack, R2's circle slash B is dodge, But there's a lot more you can do. There's a clip where we over a wooden palisade, where he whips out an explosive arrow and blows up a guard tower, or hell, just knocks which comes crashing down on It all looks procedurally generated and happening in real time, It doesn't look scripted It looks like you've got a full with armor to equip and The trailers have only shown a few weapons like the normal sword and - [Kliff] His tricks are (explosion booms) (Kliff grunts) - [Falcon] There's apparently Yeah, more weird weapons. Like, maybe this game with &quot;Rise of the Ronin&quot; and that's not a bad thing. The combat and presentation look stellar, but what actually goes on between all of this stuff is a lot more mysterious. We know it's an open world. The 50-minute gameplay There's horses to ride, and if some stray dev we'll be able to ride and oh yeah, a dragon. There's a part of one of the trailers where your guy is clinging are going off everywhere, You can even engage in a and steal a cart. In terms of activities, we There's definitely side quests. They look kinda &quot;Witcher&quot; inspired, maybe a little &quot;Red Dead to 'em as well. A lot of walk and talk - [Hubert] Oh, come! He said you'd want to see him. (footsteps rustling) - [Kliff] Is this man a prophet? - [Falcon] In terms of activities, we have seen arm gathering resources for riding a blimp, and some &quot;Tears of the just in a significantly more complex and detailed game world. Yes, there are floating cities and you do have the power to glide at will and explore these floating structures. (wind whooshing) (wind swishes) There's also some kind to manipulate the environment in some way. It's unclear how it works. It's unclear how a lot of stuff works, but one exciting thing I did notice is there does appear and even better proper dungeons, like proper dungeons to explore. It's not just smacking there's dark interior spaces as well, which is something that not enough open world action games have. Like, it's sorely, sorely missed. One thing that may be disappointing to hear about for RPG fans is, although there does seem to there doesn't seem to be and the story seems primarily There's also no character creator, which is probably disappointing coming from the &quot;Black Desert Online&quot; guys. They made one of the best but no, you're playing otherwise known as Kliff Macduff. Yes, that's seriously his name, and I don't know if it's stupid or genius. Yes, that's seriously his name. I don't know if it's stupid or genius, but it may not be the best I don't think I care so much. The presentation looks excellent, but at least in some of the trailers, Kliff is a big nothing of a character. There's just not much to and a lot of the story we've seen so far just doesn't seem The lip sync and overall Not terrible or anything, but not the most high quality and certainly not the I've seen in the game. - I have my own mission, seeking I'll do what I can to - That's more than enough. Until we meet again. - [Falcon] But also, we're from this thing actually coming out and this could all be very And who cares if the story's forgettable if everything else is great? And everything does look great. Some of the earlier trailers on the special effects, but it's a little more toned down. It's also concerning how much in the trailers, at least because this isn't just it's gonna be a lot more to 'cause they're saving all (villagers cheering) (sword whooshes) (sword whooshes) (swords clanging) (Kliff thuds) We've seen a lot of little and activities, but I'd as to what's actually going (wind whooshing) The worst possible scenario but empty, which I don't because with how little of the game is still a big question mark, which feels wrong to the trailers have so much going on that it's almost impossible They just bombard you with I cannot stress just from everything they've shown us. The environments, in particular I've already gone on of the environments, but I and how naturalistic everything looks. It's practically Rockstar-esque. The production values Like, it looks like an and hopefully that pays off for them, because in isolation, a lot but when you put it all The entire thing is in danger Even if a lot of these than the games that it's there's still a lot of The &quot;Dragon's Dogma&quot; inspirations It doesn't just make the it makes all the little things you can do in between fighting more Like this part of the 50-minute trailer where the main guy puts out a fire by throwing water barrels at it, that's the kind of stuff in open world games. - [Kliff] Got to get them out quickly. (pot shatters) - [Falcon] It all looks spectacular, but there is the danger Like we know the devs just which points to either which I don't think is happening, or a game that doesn't have a clear plan. It's been delayed at And quarter 2 2025 sounds fair, 'cause the game looks Previews from Gamescom tell another story. Not that the game is broken or buggy, but that certain weapons are like they don't have move sets yet. And while that doesn't necessarily speak to where the game is now, because demos tend to compared to the actual it's one of those warning isn't quite as finished as Now, for me personally, I say let 'em keep working I'll always take a delayed but is, like, great over a rushed one. It's easy to look at a game and say it's too good to be true, but Pearl Abyss is a real developer. They've shown a lot of the and overall impressions from they actually like it Could it be bad? Sure, that's a possibility. Maybe the open world's barren, maybe the combat's repetitive. I don't know. The last one probably won't be the case, because I mean, look at it. If there's anything to get (sword whooshes) (sword whooshing) (sword whooshes) (enemy groans) From the 50-minute demo, there's a lot of dull like a dangerous amount of walk and talks where not a lot of interest was said, but this is also all early game stuff. Like, they're not gonna We're not going to get the dragon riding and hot air balloons right away. It's one of those games but in the back of my mind, Kind of a natural defense mechanism by being burned too many times by games that look crazy promising, but you know, underwhelm I think this one has of actually being great, though. And the opportunity to be the I mean, if &quot;Stellar Blade&quot; can hit it big, why not &quot;Crimson Desert&quot;? And that's all I've got for you today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like. We upload brand new So the best way to see them and don't forget to enable notifications. As always, we thank you very I'm Falcon, you can follow We'll see you next time