- [Narrator] It took discount to 51 million monthly That's approaching the that Amazon spent decades building. Temu gained ground by from China, like this $20 coat or $9 stainless steel water bottle. And its positioning itself to be a bigger player in - Anybody who's not of who should be worried. - [Narrator] Here's how a 1-year-old brand is keeping the e-commerce and how, just like Amazon, it's redefining what it means to shop online. - You are an internet user, - [Narrator] In just over a year, the retailer has flooded social feeds with curious consumers. - Is Temu a scam? - She's a serial Temu user. - I guess I'm known as a Temu girl now. - It aired ads at back (upbeat music) - [Narrator] And stirred up debate on how to even pronounce the name. They're freaking gaslighting you. The name of the company is Temu, not Temu. - I'm gonna be honest, I don't - [Narrator] For the record, the company confirmed it's now Temu. That confusion hasn't It quickly acquired over users across the world. - It's pretty extraordinary. It's a speed of adoption we really haven't seen in the past online. - When I first wrote about Temu, we reported that it launched very quietly, and now Temu is the - [Narrator] That It spent $1.7 billion and JP Morgan analysts estimate that Temu could spend It can spend that big of its parent company, PINDUODUO or PDD, the Chinese e-commerce company, raking in billions annually. - PDD Holdings emerged out of nowhere when China's dominated by two companies, - [Narrator] So Temu's strategy of selling extremely to build market share, isn't entirely new. - They're just hoping to that worked very well in China. - Other China founded companies like Shein and TikTok are also making But Temu sets itself apart in how it gamifies shopping online. - You open up the app and that you spend and you get a prize. And the prize is usually of dollars to go buy stuff. And then as you're searching you're amazed at how low the prices are and then you see a ticker before you know this offer expires or before they're sold - [Narrator] That strategy has paid off. Temu amassed more users in six months than Shein and has in eight years. Research firm Alliance Bernstein estimates that $17 billion worth of goods That helped boost PDDs market value 74%, allowing it to briefly overtake Alibaba as China's most valuable In the US, Temu's growth giants on watch. Temu and Sheins' success tells us that consumers are willing to wait as long as the products are really cheap. - [Narrator] Temu says its six to 22 days, while express shipping is four to 11 days. - [Speaker] Temu connects with consumers directly, - [Narrator] Meanwhile, the in the US have been betting Amazon's delivery time has to less than two days on average. Other retailers are catching up, with an average of about As Amazon sets the standard on speed and Temu takes on price. - Expect price to get more competitive. Everybody needs to focus in making sure that they've got a that appeals to a consumer and not just the first time around, but has them coming back for more. - [Narrator] For now, is still ironclad, but the e-commerce giant In late 2023, Amazon announced it charges sellers for clothing under $20. - Some analysts believe that Amazon's move shows suppliers as well as - [Narrator] In a statement, that the company reduced the and incentivize even greater and competitive prices. But it's not just cheap that's putting pressure (upbeat music) - [Speaker] Download the Temu app and shop like a billionaire. It's driving up digital ad costs. That means it's more expensive to acquire new users. - [Josh] There's no question that Temu and Shein are are having I think those two players having an impact on the - [Narrator] Those digital for e-commerce companies. - They need to be there on social media, making sure that they're to either purchase or to download the app whenever they're in a mood to go buy something or - It's like a game of chicken. And for companies like Etsy that are not growing as fast as Temu, they cannot keep up with this level of ad spending at all. - [Narrator] An Etsy spokesperson said that the company is seeing a for its marketing costs, and the Etsy marketplace is profitable. That's the short term threat But in the long term, what it's done is that or is changing the to run an e-commerce business. The existing incumbents in the aren't just going to lie down and say, well, I guess They're gonna have to make they're okay to maintain or whether they wanna be consumers and retaining those consumers. - [Narrator] But some analysts say, Temu stratospheric A Morgan Stanley report noted that the company's momentum is cresting. - So what we really now need that repeat purchasing behavior? And that's still very much - [Narrator] Still, Temu has cash to burn. - It's willing to lose money to exchange for market share to acquire users. - [Narrator] Analysts about $7 per order in 2023. In a statement, Temu said, &quot;That its business model boosts efficiency and that the idea that to gain market share is simply not true.&quot; But with explosive growth and more controversy. - That junk was trash, the sizing is off. It literally looked like for was printed on it. I think only one thing actually Everything else was trash. - Consumers have been safety and quality. I think selling really cheap for Temu to acquire users. - [Narrator] Temu said in a with our independent sellers to ensure that their products meet and the US government is company thanks to its Chinese ties. A 2023 report from a congressional Temu for concerns around data risks, exploiting trade loopholes The company says that in it is open to and supportive by legislators that align It added that it considers privacy and security to be core and that it's committed to but the company is still - I think that's what Temu, Shein, TikTok, are really gonna bring They're gonna force everybody And we're gonna see who's real and who was just a pretender. (soft music)