My father was a blacksmith. He was the very first blacksmith of Basilan. - [Erwan] Forged in fire, culture, and time-honored traditions, And if Filipino-made knives they would speak volumes foreign influences, in the country's rich history In the time before colonization, had their own methods These early sword makers utilized local materials and weapons Distinctly made, the needs and heritage all over the Philippines. When the Spanish first set foot they brought with them evolving how Since we are archipelagic, developed its own This is apparent in the southern Philippines with its wavy blades similar to some blades Naturally, asides swords were created Warfare played a crucial role With the need for effective weapons of their techniques. Every piece had and balanced. These weapons would also prestige, and cultural identity. Here's the rundown and swords that for various uses. The Bolo, a Spanish term to bladed weapons. Bolos are used as chopping knives or an agricultural tool. This became popular as Filipino battalions Andres Bonifacio, and the founder of Katipunan, against the Spanish Today, it is still used extensively and cooking tool and the Visayas. Most recognized the short, single-edged Barong in close-quarters combat Yakan, and Samal warriors. The Kris' wavy blade among the other weapons. With supernatural connotations the Kris was used for thrusting and slashing. An executioner's sword, than most Filipino swords due and overall length You can imagine the damage Made for chopping, a wide metal blade of a hybrid between an axe Popular among the Moro people and the Sulu Archipelago. One of the traditional swords to the Philippine the 'Ginunting,' uses a thin for close-quarters combat thick jungle terrain. Through time, hone their crafts their knowledge Although traditional swordsmiths in number today, to continue the legacy this ancient art and history of Filipino swords During our trip to Basilan, a second generation blacksmith - I'm Datu Halun Asakil. I have been a swordsmith To this day, I continue practicing this craft and I'll continue to do so as long as I live. I became a teacher I've been a teacher When I turned 60, I decided to retire and return to my father's greatest inheritance to me - making swords. - How much - [Datu] Php350. We use up to two sacks of these every day. This generates wind in that direction. These are made of coconut husks. This is how we start making swords by forging metal. My dad didn't have He was alone. So he started making it before World War II. We weren't born We're purely Joloano, My father was a stow-away when he went to Basilan. If we're mentioning the past, It means we were descended from Datus from royalty, like the ones from Lanao. When you're from Lanao or Maguindanao and you come from royalty it means you're affluent. We are royal by blood. When he returned here, the only thing he could think of was starting his own 'pandayan' or blacksmith workshop. This one that I'm making looks like an eagle. Once you're used to this, (laughs) I helped my father at a young age until I gradually learned to do it myself. After that, little by little, in crafting blades. Whenever he made swords, I was there so I thought maybe I should start honing my skills in the craft too. I could make the sword into whatever I wanted That's when it started. When you're starting out as a swordsmith It's quite challenging. Fire is your enemy, and you will be drenched in sweat and fatigue. But after you get used to it, none of it will matter to you. Look at me, I'm very old, but none of that bothers me. There, you can see the blade forming! The Pirah and Barong from Jolo. Those swords were used in warfare for self-defense. The Muslims call it 'Pakupos.' When you don't need it as a weapon, as an accessory around your waist This 'Barong' was left to me by my father. He said this is a family heirloom which came from Jolo. The original owners were warriors of the past. This one I'm holding now that came from Jolo. This is an heirloom of Jolo, Sulu. When my father left, he brought this to Basilan. The age of this Barong Almost 200 years. But it's still here. This Barong because this is what Joloans used When I was still in high school, I would be absent from time to time just so I could help my father He was on his own because my siblings have already finished school in far-off places and didn't really help him. As for me, I never left my father's side from the start. I just couldn't leave him because I love him so much. He was my parent. Even when I was studying, I would ditch class just so I could assist him. Out of 12 siblings Eight of us finished school because of my father's artisanship as a This is how we honor and remember him. - [Erwan] With hands strong enough on end, he carves out and continues A son humbly honoring he knows how.