Transcriber: Belisa Pires (APPLAUSE) (CHEERS) What are you longing for in this moment? Is it the father or mother Or maybe one you never had? Is it the child you wish to conceive? Or maybe the one Maybe it's that beach on your bucket list. Or a past lover who haunts your dreams. We long for the divine, for home, But what happens when longing You fall in love with the possibility Now longing can be our greatest muse. It can soothe us in times of uncertainty and give us a sense It can also become a debilitating crutch, even an addictive neurochemical boost. A naturally occurring antidepressant. My friend with anorexia told me but never ate them. In a way I understood. I was a 35-year-old virgin when I realized I was addicted to longing. By remaining starved, I could stay hungry, which somehow felt more satisfying About ten years ago, I started writing trying to untangle my actions, That letter became an essay The New York Times published titled When that essay went viral, the Katie Couric Show flew me to I sat side by side with Katie Mainly, "Why are you waiting for a loving Which she should have been asking me is The sexual revolution did a lot of women without the need for emotional intimacy. No matter how hard many of us try, most women are not programmed to be To have no-strings-attached sex where mutual consent is Now, at the commercial break, "You know, you just need to have sex." (LAUGHTER) "Everyone here at the studio thinks that you're just waiting for to sweep you off your feet." Now, when I relay they respond in anger. But in that moment I felt shame, as if somehow I'd been following I had thought being an empowered, meant choosing when And, for me, that meant where I felt loved and respected, But I began to wonder if something was I mean, what could be wrong It's inspired some of the greatest On my college bulletin board, I had this poem pinned, In it, the poet wrote "Heard melodies are sweet, The 13th century Persian poet Rumi wrote "Longing is the core of the mystery. But does it really? By the time I was a 40-year-old virgin, I found myself living in Longing for the ideal person kept me distracted from my fear It was a protective mechanism. In a dating world where intimacy looks like maybe after you've just met them And you know how easy it is to fantasize when you have an incomplete picture. That's why so many of us return to I fell in love with emotionally That captain-of-the-Caribbean (LAUGHTER) And that charming journalist who told me "I'm an asshole. Stay away from me." And the depressed artist because he couldn't love himself. And even the unhappy married man. I flew to Barcelona, All in hopes of rekindling a flame I'd spent hours stalking on social media. Friends, my longing consumed me. It defined me. I knew if I wanted to get into I had to change my patterns. And so, as most journalists do, I sought out advice From psychologists to neurologists, sociologists to decision scientists. And the fact that I entered definitely puts me in the minority. But idealizing the past and seeking the thrill of anticipation Longing is culturally Our materialistic society Media and technology hook us Case in point: me with Companies like Disney and have us believing in some fantasy. And the words of the religious reinforced longing for a Superman. Savior. Rescue. Faith. Surrender. But I'm not blaming religion. Like many of my peers, where longing for a person I bet over half of you know the lyrics or "I Still Haven't Found In a recent study psychologist quoted over 800 for their attachment themes. They found that from 1946 to 2015, lyrics have grown increasingly Maybe you identify yourself This reflects social disconnection, And if longing is a mental muscle, then the more we flex it, I was gripped by what Decision Science Why say yes to one when you weren't willing to say yes After all, how do you break a streak? Most people with anorexia know that the reward is not the distorted but the addictive high from the habit And the seemingly infinite had me believing I would eventually Psychologists call this We keep looking and longing a job with better benefits, And some keep looking for a better lover. "Ashley Madison" is the leading Its tagline "Life is short. (LAUGHTER) reflects its members beliefs that affairs Members say that affairs and give them something Longing. Anticipation. In one California real estate survey, 1000 participants said they would rather than have sex. Longing. Anticipation. (LAUGHTER) We seek it out These anticipation-inducing habits Neuroscience says to crave what we don't have. The happy hormone dopamine is released but when we anticipate getting it. That's why studies show when we're planning a vacation CU's own neuroscientist that we are actually hardwired When these monogamous prairie voles are and running to reunite with them, that's when a unique cluster of cells Now, this is the same that also lights up when cocaine The same place that lights up when Netflix binge watchers The same place that lights up when heartbroken people look at a picture And even the same place active when you are anticipating somebody liking Now, these habits are all based a trigger, a behavior, and a reward. For me, the trigger was anxiety The behavior was longing. It distracted me from that And the reward was the dopamine The excitement that I felt from that. Ancient Buddhist psychologists call or "endless wandering". We began to mistake I dated over 100 men. I got off on the high of anticipating and the loss that eventually followed Research on prolonged grief shows that people who never get over loss, who never let go, may be activating neurons when they repeatedly recall memories of their lost loved ones, dead or alive. I had the same high recalling the grief As recalling the grief that I felt the day the E.R. doctor stood me up And the same grief I felt from a college boyfriend breaking up And this recalling the day So what happens when you find that you would rather feel pain You allow your heart to hurt bad When I was 40, I began writing "I am ready for and worthy of a deeply I wrote it every night. At the age of 41, I broke up with longing when I gave a healthy relationship Now, it was a slow burn. At times, it actually felt too easy. Where was the fear that he would leave me? Where is the anxiety Eventually, my attraction to his and kindness grew. I trusted him before I loved him. A few months into dating, Dave said to me, And I'd heard that from guys before, And then about five months into dating, Dave took my hand and said the most intimate thing "You are worthy of love." I cringed. I did not believe him. But instead, I sat in this very unfamiliar learning to receive love and return love with the man who stood in front of me Scariest thing I've ever done. About eight months into dating, And she said, "Do you think he's the one?" "I don't know", I told her. She said, "Well, how would you Her husband had died "Maybe he should. And then You see, we are programmed to long until there is a threat About a year into dating, three days before she left us. The law of scarcity trumps longing. You buy those tickets to Paris When there's an urgent sense "So, what about the sex?", you ask me. (LAUGHTER) It was never about the sex. And when my two-year-old daughter asks me in her teen years I will tell her it wasn't wrong to have waited to have sex It was chasing the unavailable men and the impossible plot By obsessively looking to I almost longed the chance for a healthy You see, when we idolize a person we make a bigger hole than any one We give it too much power. I will tell my daughter, "You cannot be attracted to a healthy until you stop longing And how do you do that? How do you have that is rooted in nourishment You accept that no person, place You trust Providence. And realize you're not in control. You believe you are worthy of love. And you learn to receive love. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) (CHEERS)