- I buy a lot of refurbished tech and honestly most sites are garbage. The amount of times we've purchased tech that was straight up broken and terrible condition, terrible values, like it happens all the time, but Reebelo, Reebelo might just be different. So the other day I actually I'd never heard of them before. And when I started looking for the site, there's a lot of really So you have 500,000 customers. They do also have not only but also a one year And they plant a tree for every purchase. So there's a few things that I immediately like about the site. One of the reasons why I Okay, so first of all, very clear, I can break down the carrier Great. I can see storage, I see colors. I also see the conditions. Something that they've done tell you about the condition, but also give you a little So this is what an acceptable If I go to good, you can see says the battery would be 80%. Excellent is almost flawless. Pristine is basically perfect. And then premium. Premium shows that it I like the fact that they have So you get a little bit of an say stuff like Eco-friendly. What does eco-friendly condition mean? It doesn't really mean much. Oh now hold on, I just tried It automatically added their two years of protection for 45 dollars. Okay, there's nothing wrong with selling me a protection It should not be automatically A MacBook, okay. So we have a MacBook in pristine condition. And then interesting, you can So they actually do give you a lot of information about the battery. So this is a minimum of 80%. I could spend 24 dollars more You know what? These are the kind of decisions that I would love to have when I'm trying to So often you get almost no We can even switch between, yeah, the different sort of configurations with RAM, GPU, storage, you know, they actually have a pretty broad selection of stuff. So not only do they have but we have like Cuisinart Okay, so Z Flip 5 is from 600 dollars. Z Flip 4 is from 249 bucks. Z Flip 3 for 179 dollars. So I'm looking at this 850 dollars, it shows a Core i7-13700F. Very competent, 16 gigs of RAM. But I click on the specs and it gives me these processor options, which is our Core i7 or Ryzen 5 or Core i5, or Core i3, or Ryzen 5. Like what, and a 3050 or 1660 Super, what am I getting? Storage, 256, 512, one terabyte. What? Let's get to the bottom of is Reebelo really the best place to buy refurbished tech, or is it a big old scam sandwich? Up first we have what I'm sure is a fine product from the folks over Reebelo who have done nothing but deliver some high quality values for me. Okay, up first we have, yes, okay. So this should be our 2018 MacBook Air. This was in acceptable condition, right? - [Alex] Yes, it is our - Okay, that's not bad. I mean a couple little scratches Pretty okay on the bottom. It looks a little, a little scuffy. If this is their definition of acceptable, it's really pretty good. So there may be some reasons why you wouldn't want to We got this for a relative bargain of-- - [Alex] It was 300 and 63 dollars. - 363 dollars. Bonjour indeed my friends. Bonjour to these great savings. Now, I will say, while this seems like a little dirty but pretty good shape. A 2018 MacBook Air is a weird one because it's quite similar to newer MacBooks besides the fact it's got which is not gonna be great. But this is powered by an Intel processor. And as I'm sure you're aware, the time for Apple silicon is here. And Intel processors, while this system will probably only get another software update or two. At first glance, besides and I will say it's like a little dirtier than I think it should be. But importantly, dirt comes off, scratches, Why is the track pad like not? There's no click to the track pad. So these are the Force Touch track pads, which they've used for quite a while. And while there's no physical you feel like a little vibration, which is pretty much like a real click. Like it feels good. This one has nothing to it. Now if this is working, it is actually a pretty nice little system for someone who doesn't and doing like sort of heavy lifting, but just wants a MacBook that's gonna last a few years. You know, for 400 bucks decently with a new like say Certainly it's gonna be built better. Dude, it's so slow. What the hell man? All right, let's wait for it to load. Okay. Hi Tim. screen, speakers seem to be fine. I see no dead pixels or anything. Let me see if I can adjust the track pad because that's the only thing that actually seems like Oh yeah, you know what? Switching the click to firm It still feels slightly off to me, but at least when I go it actually does feel a little bit better. I know that these keyboards This is one of the later end models that they did fix some of the issues but, I still feel like I'm faster on a butterfly keyboard So okay, Reebelo, if this is the then I got a good feeling Is what I say every time before I jinx myself with the next item. This is a factory unlocked So it's got a return. WiWi Wireless Returns. Okay we, wait. My spidey senses are tingling. We bought from these guys before, but it was on another site. And if I remember right, last time their items were good. So they actually have a So we have not only 256 shows battery health is 95%, fully functional, erase successful. So that all sounds pretty promising. And we've got ourselves... Ooh, that bandaid color Z Flip 4. Oh gross, ew. What is this on the hinge? Is that snot, is that rubber? All right. Ooh. Ooh, this is not a very What the hell? What is the hinge on this guy? First glance, no real scratches. It does not have the original which I don't like to see. All these Z Flips have screen protectors applied from the factory and So, that's not a good sign. But the screen itself underneath after they took the screen protector off does look pretty nice. - [Alex] This is supposed to be in good unlocked condition. - Good seems to be pretty accurate. This just needs a wipe down. Like honestly, like there's It's just got little like The hinge feels decent. It's definitely been used. Oh you know what though? It is missing one of the rubber feet, which is a really common thing. So there's these rubber So when the phone closes the foot is missing from this side. Here's the thing, we got this Z Flip 4. Now keep in mind that this phone came out, what a year and a half ago, maybe? This was 1,000 dollars when it was new. We got this one though for 293 dollars. I mean, that's a 66% savings. I think you could make a real argument that this is a very strong value This is a little video Now this camera I will tell you is not great, as I'm sure you can see. But the important thing is this seems to be a very functional Z Flip. Something about using the Z Flip in camcorder mode feels so good. Like just it feels right. Let's make sure the speakers work. (cheerful chime) I am flying through the galaxy right now. So far I'm very impressed with Reebelo. We've got two items that Both I would say in Very acceptable, very good. I've got no problems It's an easy recommendation for something that costs This next item is HP That's some words that Did you see the puff of smoke Wait, is that anthrax? - [Alex] Oh my God. Why do you, why do you speak these - Now this is an HP Victus Gaming PC. So this is like the Now because this says HP I assume that this was done either through HP or they've used like their custom packaging or whatever. So it's gotta be good, right? Aw, just a little guy. Okay, so we've got ourselves some authentic HP gaming peripherals, which is mostly a really And there we go, we got, what the, wait now hold on. What kind of language is this keyboard? Instead of escape it's echapp. Is this French? Let's take a look at our little - [Alex] For some reason, when you buy certain items on Reebelo. - Oh, yeah I forgot. tell you exactly what's in it. So when you look at the specifications for this particular-- - Yep. - [Alex] Item, it kind of gives you an and or something. Definitely not great. So let's see, we've rolled the I mean, little hollow sounding, but that's just the way these things are. Obviously we're talking about It's got a little Victus logo. It does have a Core i5 Inside we have, what the hell? Oh there we go, okay. Inside we have, an Intel Arc? - [Alex] That wasn't even an option. (Alex laughs) This is a-- - Don't, don't-- Wait. What? (Alex laughs) - What is it, it's even a little guy. Oh my god. What is this, what is this? It doesn't even have a, oh my God. Dude, what the hell? Okay, so this is instead. Oh, look how tiny it is. It's an Arc, I don't know, little guy. Let's see what we've got here, shall we? I'm sure it's gonna be lovely. Also, as I've been setting this thing up, can I just say, I truly Not only is it a Canadian-French layout. Ew. Also, it feels awful. Like, I swear, and yes this is probably but it is so like squishy and gross, like, no thank you. So we do have a Core i5-12400. Interestingly it's not the F variant, so it does have integrated graphics, not that you're really gonna use them. We do have eight gigabytes, 512 gig SSD, and we have an Intel Arc A380. Interesting, so it's not an A310, but an A380 is a still pretty weak GPU. Like we're talking about something that's, what, it's like a 75 watt TDP. You would struggle I think to play most games at 1080p with this. And we spent 500 dollars on it? - [Alex] 500 dollars. - Well I can go on HP's site right now and buy one for 550. What do we get here? Oh wait, this is the exact same one. HP Victus 15L. It's a Core i5-13400, so slightly newer. And it's got A380 graphics. Look in like seven seconds of Googling, there's so many other of these 15Ls that are just a better deal. The A380 though, like this And the biggest problem with Like at 500 dollars, it if we got like an RTX card or something. But instead, we've got And realistically, even it is only a little bit 13th Gen Victus directly from HP. There's no shot that this is worth it. On top of the fact that because it's got a French keyboard. And the fact that I didn't I did not, out of all the this is worse than all of them. So, big thumbs down Reebelo. Next up we have a small misshapen box, but much like a lot of there's something that's Like, what if there's a or a ring-a-ling of the ding-a-ling? So based on the fact that I I think I know what this one is. This should be our Nintendo DSi. Now I will say I do have a little bit of a special attachment for the DSI. I spent my very first YouTube paycheck buying myself a DSi And then I traded it into All right, so this is a Nintendo DSi and it's in actually okay condition. Now I, oh, oh, oh, ew. Wait, no, it's not in okay, what the hell? Wait, what condition was this in? - [Alex] We bought (Austin blows a raspberry) The DSi has a matte finish. This looks like someone and then used a bunch of Like there's literally like chunks that I can like peel off The fact that we got a No, this is not excellent at all. This is actually in, I would Let's see on the inside. Oh, look at the bottom screen dude. That's so scratched. No, no, this is not excellent. It's also starting to yellow a little bit. Dude, can you see that bottom screen? Look how scratched that is. Now I mean, yes, because you had a stylus, that was a really common thing but, I paid a lot of money for - [Alex] Yep, we paid - Ugh. Look, I love the DSi and I have some fond memories of paying like 100 dollars It was like 130 bucks or something. So, yes I would love to take a photo. Funny you should ask. Wait, this has the SD card slot, right? Yeah, it does. Does it No, it doesn't. Wow. (snapshot) Look at that beautiful photo. Oh no, oh no, the processing power of the DSi is too much for me to handle. All right, we're gonna Let's see how it works, shall we? All right, so the DSi is as far as I can tell. The touchscreen seems to be totally fine. But here's the thing, there's no way that this is a good value, like at all. If this was actually I think 110 dollars would be sort of fair. But this is in, I would say acceptable. It's functional, but cosmetically I'm like, should just buy it on eBay because at least on eBay, most of the time you of the actual item that Let's brighten the mood a little bit, shall we? Because I found some other We've bought stuff from Does Reebelo sell anything? They're just a pure Well, let's take a look Okay, I'm sure this is Okay, it's our iPhone. Now, this should be an iPhone XS. Functionality, battery, Now it does have a screen protector on it, which I will peel off. Front of the screen I will say looks, there's a small scratch And there's a hairline scratch here. Not terrible though. And a couple of scratches on the side. We are into iOS. Let's see what we've got, shall we? So battery health is 97%, that's very good, yeah. Can I ask though, how much did we pay for - [Alex] 200 and 52 dollars. But keep in mind, that is almost 100 dollars - Wait, wait, wait, what? We paid 100 dollars more to go from excellent to pristine? - [Alex] Yes. - Oh, why did I do that? Part of that money though is going toward it being a 512 gig phone. So this was like 1400 bucks when it was new? Yeah, okay. So maybe don't buy the It is quite clean, I'll give them that. It is very close to new. But when you consider that while I paid 250 dollars for this phone, I could have gotten it becomes a little bit more interesting. The XS is actually kind of decent. Except that even when it was And I'm sure it's not It wouldn't be a refurbished video without taking a look at Now, I mostly do this with companies to make sure that they're not gonna sell me some fake AirPods. Because there are a whole lot But I'm sure that these are nothing but authentic and legitimate. This is out of all the the only one that actually directly from Reebelo. I don't think I've ever gotten AirPods in the actual box before Weird, okay so, AirPods Lightning charging case. So these are the AirPods 3, I think. What's weird though is You see the sticker on it? It's like AirPods designed by California. Like over the top of the actual label. All right, well those because you can see they're What condition are these AirPods 3 in? - [Alex] They're supposed - I mean, they're not bad on the outside. You can see there's a but it's not too bad. (sniffing) Yeah, smell pretty new. How much did I pay for AirPods third generation? - [Alex] 110 dollars. - That's okay, well, that's okay. I mean, AirPods are very valuable. I think you should just buy other headphones for 110 dollars. That feels like an okay deal to me. Okay, we're pairing. I hear it, it's got the, (upbeat music) it's fine. I can say nothing more than fine just because 110 dollars for When you can buy these things, well, you can buy them new on sale for a little bit more than this. But there's so many other that are maybe not gonna have They're also gonna cost you a fraction. Like you can get this from like 30, 40 dollar earbuds. You can buy Beats, which The Studio Buds are, I would They have active noise cancellation and they're cheaper, brand new. Like, unless you really, I don't think this is the move. They sound good, there's nothing wrong with I would say it's very, but like, it's just a tough sell. Now this is an item that because I've actually covered How do you feel about Chromebooks? - [Alex] Eh. - How do you feel about - [Alex] What? - So this is a Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming Chromebook. Now, full disclosure, we did a sponsored Mystery like a year and a half ago or so. And since then, the gaming Chromebook scene has been set alight by Stadia imploding. So when I took a look at this, again, just a little over a year ago, this I think was 650 dollars. And it was actually a decent laptop with like a high refresh rate display, decent specs and everything. But obviously gaming Chromebook, a little hard to justify. This however, is now dramatically cheaper. We got this thing for how much? - [Alex] 240 dollars. - So after about a year, this is now significantly And I'm gonna say that as which hopefully it is, this is a very good laptop for 240 bucks. Now what condition is - [Alex] It's supposed - So very clean on the bottom. Quite clean on the top too. There's a little scratch And on the inside, yeah. Also not bad. So, heh. I know what you're thinking. Austin, why would I want to spend even 240 dollars on a Chromebook? Well, let me tell you my friends, that this is not like a What you're getting with this device is a large 1080p 120 hertz display. Very nice on a sub 300 dollar laptop. You're getting a Core i3. I think this has like eight gigs of RAM. This is actually like a that also happens to be decent for gaming with a high refresh rate display. Which is part of the reason It really is actually pretty good. I mean, I'm telling you man this is, like, the keyboard is good, the screen is terrific. - [Alex] Yeah it should be, because it's actually not 1080p, it's 2.5K. - This is the two, wait, this is the 2.5K display? - That's better than even better. - Optimize your gaming setup. I would love to Google. Also, is this a matte display? Oh, I forgot it has a matte display too. Well, let's play some Fortnite, shall we? So I am using GeForce Ultimate, which is supposedly I'll tell you, I'm not normally because the latency that's involved, the sort of the stuttering especially when you're streaming but there's only one that actually feels like it's And it is GeForce Now, Yes, the image quality's mostly because I think a little bit of a lower bit rate. But like the responsiveness nothing else touches this. I wanna say that Reebelo is worth it. There's nothing here that's or anything like, certainly not as bad as some of the other sites and some of the other sort But, as always, when you're you need to do the math. Is this a good enough deal And is the platform you're buying from going to give you a good And Reebelo gets an okay mark here. They got pretty decent policies, the shipping was relatively quick, the items were, for the There's definitely some points that they could have improved, but we got enough stuff here today that came in good enough condition that I'm willing to give them a pass. Some of the other stuff though, this ain't it.