I'm a music teacher &amp; professional musician piano reviews &amp; comparisons on my channel and piano or MIDI controller that best suits your Before I begin, here's a quick tip. If you on your very first keyboard. You don't need an if you can stretch your budget to buy a mid-tier much better, have better key action, are more If you are mostly interested in learning and list that has 88 weighted keys. If you are more or playing with a band, a synth action keyboard non-piano sounds. A MIDI controller keyboard you use a MIDI keyboard to control virtual is installed on your computer, iPad or smartphone. keyboards. The prices I mention are accurate to make this video 2 hours long, my in-depth for the keyboards and digital pianos in this list $100+ keyboard with the biggest bang for your buck 61 touch sensitive synth action keys, 650 sounds DSP effects and 260 rhythm accompaniments using There are music lessons built into the keyboard pair of headphones. To record your performances, powered with an electrical outlet or using MIDI &amp; digital audio for use with music learning there's the 76-keys version PSR-EW320 key-lights version EZ310 - which lights up If producing contemporary digital music recording software is more your cup of tea, MIDI controller keyboard from Nektar. It DAW transport controls, advanced MIDI integration music production software including the My full review, sound demo and best can be found in the description &amp; comment section. $200+ 61 keys keyboard for those who want one of the affordable price in an ultra-portable form factor the most usable studio quality tones powered by layered and there are more than a few dozen reverb power the onboard speakers and you can plug in a MIDI for music learning apps and with a Bluetooth For an additional $30 more than the CT-S1, design gets you 600 tones which can accompaniments for you to jam along with. You a 6 track song recorder and 32 user memory powered with 6 "AA" batteries or with onboard speakers or a pair of headphones. music learning apps and a Bluetooth adaptor For $299, there's the Yamaha EZ310 and PSR-EW320. PSR-E383 I talked about earlier on my list. except for the colour - white instead of black use with the key light and lesson features. the PSR-E383 but with 76 instead of 61 keys EW-320 is a good choice if you want the For digital music producers, the $269 excellent choice. The 61 keys MIDI controller synth-piano key action, a rotary knob, 9 modulation and pitch bend wheels and drumming or triggering scenes. More than 2,000 Native Instruments &amp; UVI that cost up to keyboard together with the industry leading My in-depth review, sound demo keyboards can be found in the $300+ unbeatable. Packed with more than 1,154 instrument sound engine - which can be layered and split accompaniments, a user definable chord sequencer, settings, onboard speakers and user expandable you will not find a more value for money With both USB &amp; Bluetooth, you get both wired &amp; learning apps &amp; music production software. The audio which is great for sharing online and a power adaptor. The GO:Keys 3 is available Also at $349 is the Korg Liano, the best piano at this price. With 8 studio quality samples and loads of bundled virtual specifically for piano players. You get a headphones jack, a sustain pedal input and audio - great for music learning apps and music with 6 "AA" batteries or a power adaptor If you need an affordable 88-weighted keys the Donner DEP-20 at just $350 is a great be layered and split across the keyboard, 200 powerful speakers, a headphones jack and the Donner DEP-20 gives tremendous If you pay $29 more, get the Alesis Recital weighted piano style keys and 12 piano, be layered or split across the keyboard. A reverb &amp; chorus effects, headphones jack and and music production software is included. power adaptor or with 6 "D" size batteries. keys digital pianos but do yourself a favour For the digital music producer who is more focused Essential 88 MK3 is what you're looking for. It I talked about earlier, but with more keys and is Check the description &amp; comment sound demo and best prices $400+ category are the $499 Roland GO:Keys 5 &amp; $489 the Roland has 61 keys but the Roland has 1,154 Yamaha has more accompaniment styles - 290 versus gives you 4 variations for each style and it's accompaniments on the Roland using CloudConnect. speakers and has 2 live control knobs which the on MIDI and digital audio, only the Roland has The Alesis Recital Grand, also sold as is the only 88 graded hammer action digital pianos get 16 high quality multi-sampled piano layered and split across the keyboard, dual headphone jacks, triple pedal support and a You can find my demonstration of the $400+ keyboards and digital pianos $500+ spot for a solid beginner 88 graded hammer action Roland FP-10, Yamaha P-145 or Casio PX-S1100. the most number in this category and the but the Casio has the highest polyphony the most compact, lightweight and can be battery off an electrical outlet. I prefer the key action action which beginners may benefit from. They all amplification on the Casio is the most powerful have both USB MIDI and wireless Bluetooth apps and audio streaming while the Yamaha you will not go wrong with any of these 3 if you My in-depth review, sound demo and best prices $600+ the Roland FP-30X and Yamaha P-255 are great tight budget. You get really good key action there is a perceptible jump in sound quality, important. The Yamaha P-255 has 24 high quality in the FP-30X. You get dual headphone jacks, aux audio outputs for connecting to more powerful both keyboards have USB MIDI for use with music the Roland FP-30X supports wireless Bluetooth. are significantly more powerful than those found digital pianos are entry-level pro keyboards that $800+ you will find my personal favourites - the hybrid and the $899 Roland FP-E50 hybrid piano arrangers hammer action keys and have rhythm accompaniments more than 1,000 sounds whereas the Yamaha has having 263 rhythm accompaniment styles whereas expand the sounds and rhythm accompaniments on the Roland's CloudConnect whereas the DGX-670 has 4 variations for each rhythm accompaniment as rhythm style creator is also available on the feature but has a chord sequencer instead. and vocal effects if you want to sing and play. definition LCD screen like the Yamaha but it only make up for it by having speakers that are twice imaginable connectivity option including wireless sequencer whereas the song recorder on the if you want loads of sounds and expansion, get music arranging is more important to you, $1,000 in the $1,000 category. For digital pianos, the favourites. They feature great sound quality, build quality. If you want a pro-level arranger 1,200 sounds, the $1,099 Yamaha PSR-SX600 is the the lightweight 61-key Yamaha CK61 stage action stage synthesiser with thousands of sounds needs gets my recommendation. The CK61 and Juno adapter and these keyboards also work really $1,000 Home Digital Pianos home digital pianos that costs about $1,000, comes to sound quality and key action are the the Casio PX-870 and if you can stretch your it comes to bang for buck. Home console pianos significantly larger speakers and amplification You can find everything I recommend including description and comment section. I hope you See and check out my in-depth video reviews