For an adorable little pink marshmallow, you'd be Kirby. But even with his immense power, he's still But which of Kirby's enemies-and frenemies-require the stuff of legends to beat, and Hiiii! I'm Kifinos with 1upBinge, and Now, Kirby is a series that often blurs the take into account all the big bads of the Meta Knight, and even Magolor by this point-we still wouldn't As usual, we'll start with the Weakest villains Starting things off, you better because here come The Squeaks to kick off our while the titular Squeak Squad is at the bottom of means-this is a ranking by Kirby standards, super-speedy Spinni, the rough-and-tough Storo, leader Daroach. They're all fairly tough, able Kirby for treasure he finds on his adventure. Of the ability to teleport rapidly, toss countless he's no small threat. He's made even stronger with the penultimate boss. The Squeaks each have their together-but we have to put them at the bottom. they have-they're just a much smaller-scale The Mage Sisters are next. This trio-Francisca, Star Allies's main villain ,Hyness. and lighting attacks to great effect. putting up a good fight against Kirby and it's absolute chaos-the Three Mage-Sisters boss one of the absolute hardest bosses we've seen in bottom of our list if they're strong fighters on the thing. Star Allies had a unique mechanic specific abilities and elements. With the Sisters' is going. Francisca is weak to fire, Flamberge weak to water. They put up a great fight, for they have the closest thing to a blatant weakness played Star Allies, you know how much these their fights-so while they're not weak by any We adore you, Noble President Haltmann-we just choice to be so low on our list, Max Profitt Works Company-obviously. He plans to mechanize the army he gets pretty darn close. With a massive suit, and even the legendary machine Star Dream, our list, but there's one factor that makes him unable to control Star Dream, being corrupted the control helmet near himself...or maybe that away so quickly and suddenly. Either way, it's he doesn't fully have control over them-being Also, while having resources is great, Haltmann Susie, he's shown to be absolutely nothing without a doubt, but Kirby has had bigger The apple doesn't fall far from the tree-and spot. The daughter of President Haltmann, Susie Robobot. She's shown to be highly intelligent, top-notch. She has a powerful mech suit ready turn Meta Knight into a fighting machine to use scorpion tail, which we...really don't wanna think and a little drone for escape and mobility, Susie hijack Star Dream from her boss. We place her that both her ability to double-cross him, as well with him being...out of the picture...combine to most of her power comes from weaponry-and while we feel like the upper hand has to be given Wait, who put Squidward on this This mad cult leader checks off all the boxes dark force beyond his comprehension, the Termina? Check. Able to conjure up a variety of and ice storms? Check. Absorbing the power of his them as battering rams? Che-wait, that's new. Hyness credit for his fighting prowess-as we see he puts up a solid fight and can even absorb upper hand on Kirby. Hyness is no joke, despite despite the fact that seeing that face for while he's certainly strong, there From one Switch game to another, we have Leongar is unsurprisingly quite intimidating. He in terms of power, is basically the Squeak Squad but while being a giant, buff lion is by Kirby's it's...not really that special. We give as well as unquestionable authority over the controlled by Elfilis was pretty evident, but dock some points for one reason: as strong as of Forgotten Land, Fecto Elfilis. It may seem most main villains in the Kirby franchise are point. But in Leon's case, Fecto has completely strength we see in his boss fight is indeed his giant forcefields of death are all Fecto Elfilis. are certainly greater threats. Still-we can't help Though debatable as a "villain," Galactic book. This gigantic machine floats in the void and powerful enough to reach it . Nova itself part of the final boss, as Marx's wish led to it possibly ignore its strength when it's a machine had Kirby not successfully destroyed its heart, to mention its capability to summon Galacta the galaxy. Still, its power depends entirely possibly place it too high. Now, if it had free Well, anyway-Taranza weaves his way into our high on our list-but hear us out. Taranza is one his debut appearance in Triple Deluxe. Even with impressive feats; he can shoot powerful blasts of and kidnap King Dedede-who is one of Dream Land's control others as puppets-throughout Kirby's empowers most of the bosses Kirby fights along Dedede. When he becomes playable in Kirby Star grow a miniature Dreamstalk, and even summon and powerful damage. Taranza has one of the most Kirby Clash games, we see him transformed into through finally giving us a pretty sweet admittedly due to another villain's influence-but tricks up his sleeve, and has some impressive were it not for the fact that he isn't as tough fighter with plenty of resources, but him off the roof of her castle out of anger, we Yin-Yarn is next up-dang it, why didn't we save had a hard time placing this guy-and we really or not. Yin-Yarn can conjure up and control this wouldn't be THAT impressive on its own(at a sock around his neck has a portal to his home of Dream Land into it, he can transport them requires him to get the jump on them-but full control over them. He manages to turn the and to take control over Meta Knight and King aren't sure what exactly Yin-Yarn was planning to literal fabric of an entire dimension should he was pretty easily defeated by Kirby, You might be a bit angry with us for even him anywhere but the bottom. But while this final boss in Kirby history, it still isn't weak for a dark force of evil and demon possession that elemental powers, greatly increases the power of defeated with the legendary Triple Star(originally Nebula and many of the other "Dark" villains in a treasure chest. We're not sure how this is that King Dedede was guarding it before Kirby there's only so much credit we can give the just...stuck in a box and then beaten. Another darkness-shrouding villain, the Appearing solely as the villain of Kirby: Mass 10 tiny versions of himself, rendering him Inhibiting Kirby to this extent is pretty darn of Skullies and his ability to control enemies catch a break, huh... Our reason for not giving him lies in the fact that Kirby, despite his numerous smaller size, and no special weapons-still that he's strong-but when other villains we can't place him much higher. With that being noted, let's talk about the very weapon-the Nightmare Wizard. The final boss and in Dream Land, Nightmare Wizard is one of the showing up in those two games, Super Kirby he definitely leaves an impact; he was enough of Dream Land's dreams into nightmares, and King keep him at bay. Defeating Nightmare required task-Nightmare has an impervious cloak, requiring get bullets inside his armor. He also possesses fire strong star-shaped projectiles at Kirby. He mobility and projectile control. Nightmare Wizard Star Rod-as well as Kirby and King Dedede-is We now move onto one of the most Super Star. Placing one of Kirby's most memorable some explanation. Marx is a powerful jester who he goes. Like Taranza, he has a lot of tricks us-exploding beach balls, giant wings, extreme speed, sharp boomerang-shaped blasts of ice energy bombs-et cetera. He's also cunning, getting Kirby to summon Galactic Nova to stop last moment, wishing to destroy Popstar. Marx as he returns as a Dream Friend in Kirby Star space for many, many years was no problem Marx is an absolute powerhouse-but he's of the further entries are. It's also worth use of any special weapons or abilities, which For our next entry, let's reflect on the Dark Mind and Dark Meta Knight. Wanting to rule Knight to help him cause chaos and destruction only take over the Mirror world, but to seep out their capability to corrupt those who look who was given the mirror as a gift by a himself later on in Kirby Clash. Their influence villains. We can also see in their boss fights, as they have a solid variety of powerful attacks Meta Knight can clone himself, summon gigantic Knight-with arguably even more tenacity, whereas extremely resilient. He also is strong enough to Galaxia. They're intense threats in their at times too-but because they're confined we have to keep them lower than while Galaxia helped, it actually isn't Moving from reflections to royalty, next up is Sectonia was tragically corrupted by the a gift from Taranza. The cruel insect monarch has an army of loyal bug soldiers she can Floralia with an iron fist. Her vanity becoming a massive foe who envelops Planet to date. She has control over countless They can shoot explosives at Kirby, and can shoot massive lasers at Kirby-which to restrain Kirby momentarily-a feat very few Kirby using the Miracle Fruit to gain Hypernova ultimately take her down-if you tick her off, it And from royalty to artistry, Claycia and the Dark Rainbow Curse, Claycia works alongside Elline to skills, however, the Dark Crafter possesses her to everyone therein, so it can take over. In addition the game shows just how formidable they are. With her own projectiles, as well as the ability Claycia is quite the tough customer-and while ramming into her, Dark Crafter requires the Rocket rammed into by Kirby...after being charged. but these two get points for just how effectively not been able to restore Kirby and Bandana Dee's Landing just outside of the top ten is Drawcia. original wielder of the Magical Paintbrush-which also remove Kirby's limbs, making it so that said paint brush. Like Necrodeus, Dark Crafter, the fabric of Dream Land, and turn its strongest and King Dedede. But we feel like she deserves rather than needing to manipulate Dream Land's subjects to do her bidding and inhibit Kirby. She truly shapes it to do her bidding-she's almost also worth noting that Kirby still had his copy is a bit more durable than our last entries for having the very first "soul" fight in the True Arena, which didn't even exist yet, we don't no doubt a threat-and honestly, we'd love to see What's with all the weird looks? Fine. Let us top ten. Magolor's plot to steal this source friends to reach it for him initially seems wish on Galactic Nova. The difference, however, to their users to grant their desires of of has a mind of its own. We see this in in which it's revealed that the Master Crown beyond recognition with no desire to do anything to open rifts to other worlds, striking with summon small enemies, and even use Kirby's super floor combination STILL gets us every time. Magolor Epilogue mode, the Master Crown acts harnessing the power of a Gem Apple. All of its it can not only summon enemies from Dream Land, wild to think that a source of this much power but...well...it still requires a vessel to prosper. forms-as we see with what it did to Magolor and trust us-the remaining characters Without further ado, let's move on to since 2011. Most of the powers we talked last entry could be applied to Magolor as well. the Lor Star Cutter-which he can summon at any a shield that's completely invulnerable and a plethora of other attacks. Magolor series-especially once Star Allies came around, ability. In the aforementioned Magolor Epilogue powers-he has increased health, can fire massive hole to devastate his opponents. Magolor has an last one of them hits HARD. He even destroys the his earlier betrayal of Kirby. We forgive you, Star Dream, the prized supercomputer of President you'll remember our entry on Nova earlier, it also has the ability to grant any wish-on Haltmann's soul and destroy all organic life, copy the Battleship Halberd to defeat gigantic shields with durable weak points, and a great deal of defense against Kirby's it summons different time-measuring tools, attack Kirby. In the post-game modes, we find to summon clones of powerful fighters and even able to summon the real Galacta Knight. attack that can kill Kirby in just one hit. it's a cold, heartless machine-and we'll tack as well. It's only this low on the list because Galacta Knight might hold the title and is undoubtedly one of the coolest bosses footing with Meta Knight-and as we see King Dedede, and Bandana Dee. With pierces the sky with a gigantic laser, the ability and even tear a hole in the fabric of Kirby's Galacta Knight is one of the most intimidating Planet Robobot's Meta Knightmare Returns mode, he it was Star Dream's original form, but still-even to take it down. The only thing keeping Galacta for one thing, we don't know much about him. list who hasn't technically been confirmed as story-wise. As a result, we don't know many of his strong enough to be sealed away for eons out Galaxy," Galacta Knight sure does lose a lot. Dee take him down-though they do fight pretty darn also the whole "being dissolved by Morpho Knight" Get ready for perfection-here comes Great King decisions to make on this list, perhaps the most is stronger-King Dedede or Meta Knight. These two decades, always able to fight with him on even among the most powerful warriors in Dream with everything great about him-ok, no, we'd be Dream Land's most skillful hammer wielder(next absolutely shudder. He can also fly, inhale at times, slam to the ground with his intense absolutely devastating attack from the King. Fun Smash Ultimate. But back on topic-Dedede resourceful-some of his resources include the Jet godlike strength, the Kirby cloning machine he an entire army of Waddle Dees, Waddle Doos, Just a lot of tough little guys. There's also his castle, the strength and connections to seal he would stay sealed in the Fountain of Dreams, Deluxe, fighting off the entire Beast Pack army in King Dedede is also prone to getting possessed by this against him, it actually often enhances his he's able to use a battle ax multiple times frequently knocked out by Kirby, and as we saw in by greater villains can totally incapacitate example. As such, as much as we'd love to put So naturally, kicking off our top five is Knight. It could be said that King Dedede for the most part. Heck, in Kirby Fighters 2, Dedede is arguably more physically strong than much faster than his big buddy. Like King Dedede, he has a giant battleship on top of that. remember how we said earlier that King there's a reason we said that: Meta Knight is VERY Once his mask is broken, he flies off-showing Meta Knight has the upper hand in he resisted the mind control of Fecto he nearly did the same against Yin-Yarn. As that mental fortitude makes it clear that Meta And here we are-ID-F86...but you might recognize him Land released, there were two camps: Those who and those who had faith he would remain a right-acting as the overarching antagonist of the Having gone on a rampage in the Forgotten turned into a zoo exhibit. Elfilis managed to not only making him exponentially more powerful, entirety. Its brainwashing extends even further, well-leading to him being at what is likely the with Elfilin's, Elfilis essentially turns into firing lasers, controlling spears from a PLANET through a vortex to try and make it both of them. Elfilis would have succeeded, too, of Big-Rig Mouth. Elfilis would be higher on honestly. But we have to bear in mind that he's great warrior from elsewhere in the galaxy, No, wait, that's-Morpho Knight?! Yep-he's taking is one of the newest recurring Kirby villains, boss. In that game, he's infamously one of is surprising, given just how incredibly powerful butterfly that's always flying around Kirby at Galacta Knight, he literally disintegrates betrayal. In Forgotten Land, he does the exact intergalactic threats in the whole series rendered not even when he's fighting! Morpho Knight confusing his opponents with sound waves that land another hit on him. He can also set up ensuring that it's a fight to the death, and not only grow to Ultra Sword size, but also leave on attributes of the foes he absorbs, much for example, he can send its phantoms out against and-we can't stress enough-his full-on DELETION of terrifying, mysterious character in the Kirby The runner-up of Kirby's powerful foes is the have had strong armies of enemies to work quite as much influence as the Dark Matter Army. and Kirby 64, the Dark Matter forces are shown to planet in darkness, possessing its inhabitants Poor King Dedede is the most frequent victim he often has to collect special items to build and Love-Love Stick. In Kirby 64, he just has to off on its Dedede-possessing skill for a minute, but SEVERAL other planets as well. Kirby has to the Crystal Shards and defeat the forces of Dark let's look at its fighting prowess. which is a skilled swordsman with a variety of hardly even be touched without reflecting its then, of course, there's Zero and Zero Two. fare-you know, the GIANT BLEEDING EYEBALLS? their terrifying blood attacks do a great deal requires special weapons. While Kirby's Zero Two, the forces of Dark Matter as a whole world-and that would make them, under normal Medal of Power. But what if we told you that, as As hard as the rest of this list was to put in pretty darn easy. For those wondering what provide the answer. He's the reincarnation and the source of Dark Matter. Yes, you heard Void Termina's first form is terrifying enough, of the water. It's able to summon countless lightning spears, and-wait for it-the FREAKING. even worse is that, with only a few weak points armor with very precise aim-and with the legendary Once the heart is damaged, it rejects its needing to be attacked on its armor again an eerily familiar-faced ball of energy able to duplicate itself-you name it, it can probably do it takes Kirby summoning the power of all hand on this monster. What Kirby is-a pure, and kindness-Void is the exact opposite: a cold, and destroy everything in its path. There's no there's just as little room for doubt that Void