- There are now over 5,000 including many that could As amazing as that is, We want to actually visit or at least send a robot that could perhaps send back photos. So today let's do something and use a tier list to rank the different interstellar that have been proposed. The actual rankings will of but I will briefly so you can form your own judgment and leave this video as your in interstellar propulsion. There are two basic criteria that I'm gonna use to judge these. First, how fast does it go? Pretty obvious faster ships are better because let's face it, we're Second, how technologically Again, I don't wanna wait 1000 years for us to invent the technology. I want it in my lifetime. There will be bonus points for ideas that can transport humans And that generally means it needs to work with very heavy ships packed as well as requiring the for our frail human bodies. And I will consider low-cost technologies for additional bonus points because, hey, someone's There's actually a very long list of possible interstellar but many of them are just So the list that we're is definitely not exhaustive, but it covers most of the bases. So let's kick things off with the one interstellar that has actually been and that's chemical rockets. All rockets, like this beautiful work by expelling a bit like this. Now propellant carries momentum and so by the law of the the ship will have to move The change in velocity, or delta-v, that one gets out of such systems is governed by this and that tells us that we To get the propellant to move at all, you need an energy source, that energy source is chemical reactions. Most commonly, it's hydrogen and oxygen which combine together to make water. Now the problem with all rockets is that you have to bring and that stuff is heavy. For example, for the Saturn V 94% of the ship's mass was just fuel. However, chemical rockets have excellent thrust to weight ratios, almost and we can control the rate That gives us fine throttle control. But the actual impulse they Yielding speeds of 10 to which by itself just isn't fast enough to escape the sun's gravity However, we can always from the planets using In fact, we've already for Voyagers 1 and 2, Pioneers 10 and 11, and the New Horizons spacecraft. They are all interstellar. The fastest of these, Voyager 1, is escaping the solar system at about 17 kilometers per second, meaning that it travels one So I'm gonna rank this as B tier because it actually does and to boot, it can actually but it's obviously slower than we'd like and not particularly cheap. Next, let's stick with rockets, but move to the nuclear Okay, so rockets work The faster, the better If the propellant is a gas, that the velocity of the to the square root of the gas temperature divided by the molecular mass. So that means that we want hot gas and light particles to maximize speed. In a chemical rocket system, we supply the heat to warm but what if instead we use Stick some uranium in a reaction chamber, bombard it with neutrons to and then use the heat generated Since light gases are That's the basic idea behind NTR. Now, we've never flown such a rocket, but we did test and back in the 1950s and 60s. The advantage is that the energy density of the nuclear strong force is far greater than that of But the real question in a controlled way? For rockets, all we really care about are maximum thrust and specific impulse, where the latter really tracks Now, unfortunately, NTR to our best chemical rockets. It's about the same as So unfortunately the to escape the Earth's gravity, and so you'd have to use some to get it up there in the first place. But what it lacks in thrust, delivering about twice the approaching 1000 seconds. So twice the efficiency means NASA is rediscovering with a planned demonstrator called DRACO, so look out for that. All right, so let's rank it. On the downside, we are launching high-grade nuclear fissile which is obviously risky. Further, nuclear energy densities are about a million times greater than that of chemical energy systems, and yet here we're only so it seems like we're leaving on the table here. But it's technologically feasible, there is a planned demo mission, and it has twice the specific so I'm gonna put this as A tier. But if you want more then good news, nuclear Okay, this is gonna sound a little wild. The plan is to detonate a series of nuclear bombs behind the ship whose explosion then smashed attached to the vessel. To absorb the impact, the pusher plate is obviously and is sometimes allowed to Such a design would produce greater specific impulse than the NTR, and has been extensively as part of Project Orion. A concept study supported by DARPA, which could reach Mars in four weeks. Testing this idea is currently prohibited under the Partial Test Ban Treaty, and obviously using the Earth's atmosphere would be incredibly dangerous. Another variant design is claimed to be capable of up to 100,000 seconds using a giant parachute then drag along the ship. There's many variants like this. For example, using H-bombs to But for smoother accelerations, we need a series of small bombs, but plutonium's critical seemingly sets a minimum scale, and so some have suggested with a hint of antimatter that can kickstart the chain reaction and let you get away In the Project Daedalus concept study, small pellets of helium-3, which would be harvested are then fussed using A NASA sponsored follow-up refined these ideas and Alpha Centauri in a century. As you can see, it's what a nuclear pulse or be capable of, and the feasibility varies to something which is at So I am tempted to put this for feasibility concerns, but given the number of let's make it A tier. You know, an interesting issue is that if an alien then that seems like something from far away, spraying neutrinos and I think that could be a really interesting study for astronomy. How far away could we using existing telescopes? Now, we might be interested but you probably don't want to be tracked, and that's where the sponsor That's incogni.com. So the sad truth is that who are dedicated to just your personal data without your consent. I'm talking home addresses, phone numbers, employment history, and even Incogni is a subscription that fights back for you. They scan databases for your personal data and then they email those companies and persistently request until they comply with the law. Log into their website and you can see just how many databases and the status of their My phone used to ring off to such a degree that I basically gave up answering the phone anymore. In another case, somebody called me up and actually read out using information they'd dug up online. I reached a point where I If you want to fight then here's what you do. Head to incogni.com/CoolWorlds, and make sure you use the code CoolWorlds to get an exclusive, get this, Once again, that's Now back to the video. So far we have been focused on rockets, but now let's mix it up The simplest idea here is the solar sail, which means it's powered by Sails are radically different from rockets and there's no fuel aboard, from the so-called tyranny It's strange to think about, but light carries momentum That's because it has a and Einstein teaches us that as energy divided by the speed of light. For a visible light photon, the momentum carried some 10 to the 27 times smaller than a baseball being tossed. However, at Earth's distance from the sun, every square meter receives several times 10 to the 21 Light thus exerts a force upon everything it strikes, In most cases, the sun's is far, far greater than that of the outward But gravity only cares about mass and radiation pressure only so if we made something radiation pressure could win out, and that is the idea behind a sail. To go interstellar, the has to exceed the inward Do this at any distance from because both forces conveniently drop off as the square of distance. However, this requirement ends up meaning that you'd need something which is 0.8 grams per meter squared, which is extremely For example, if a sail one of our lightest metals, that translate to a piece of aluminium that's about 1000 atoms thick, or 200 times thinner than a human hair. On the plus side, we have successfully such as IKAROS, LightSail 2, and NanoSail, but all of these were two to go interstellar. So plus points for some testing already, but it's still a long For me, this is either B or C tier. It's close, but I think I'll and it can never really get Now a variant of the solar proposed by Robert Forward. This laces the sail with The decay products pop and they carry away momentum as they do. If the sunlit side of then the forward-traveling decay products just bump into the front of the sail and don't change the overall momentum. But if they fly out of the back, then that's propellant and The beauty here is that a very thin layer of radioactive and it could provide for potentially centuries, depending on what material you use. So the fission sail is of the standard sail design. Given the solar sail was I'm gonna bump this up to B tier. The fastest version of a although really any form of not just lasers. The sun dumps about a kilowatt of power onto every square meter which sounds like a lot, to give these sail enough momentum. So instead, let's replace the sun with a series of laser beams Silicon Valley billionaire, Yuri Milner, seed funded a $100 million project to reach Alpha Centauri in his lifetime. And he gathered a group to figure out how, and light sails was the answer Named Breakthrough Starshot, an array of 100 gigawatt aimed at a curved sail a few meters across and weighing just a few grams, and that will accelerate it to There are many engineering For example, the sail has to avoid burning up in that Balancing in the beam for is also a major challenge But you know, I've been impressed with the clever solutions such as embedding the and using the sail as an Another advantage is that potentially thousands of these things Really, the main cost driver and just building and So look, if we want a photo of an exoplanet in our lifetimes, for me, this is our best shot right now, and so I am gonna put this as S tier. Okay, I need to speed up, but the next few should be pretty fast. Next up, we have the Alcubierre This actually really isn't a drive, it's more of a metric to bend space time in such a way that a ship would seem to move at potentially super luminal speeds. I've talked about this idea so just go check that one For me, the biggest of which and thus it violates causality. As much as I wish this one was legit, I have to put it D tier based Let's look at wormholes. Holes through space, such that the ship doesn't really have to travel fast at all, we just jump through a portal Unfortunately, we have no evidence for naturally occurring their existence would lead in the universe. Stephen Hawking suggested that any faster-than-light is always prohibited to For example, with two wormholes, they would actually like a microphone being building up infinite energy between them that instantaneously I might do a video about this one day, but for now, I'm okay alongside the Alcubierre drive. Next up, we have antimatter. The ultimate in energy density allowing us to maximally exploit Pound for pound, antimatter about 4 billion times greater than that of the best chemical fuels. It really doesn't get But unlike chemical fuel, we have no deposits of We have to make this stuff ourselves. Particle accelerators like produce about 10 nanograms per year, but we essentially just It is estimated that if even a milligram of the stuff, it would cost us about This is just a non-starter and that's a real shame because the reactions which have an exhaust velocity Thus by the rocket equation, such a system would be easily capable of true relativistic flight. Look, if we had a giant mine of this stuff somewhere on Earth, then we would be heading to But of course, such a mine and really shouldn't So ranking this. Look, antimatter is at so it's not D tier, I'll put it as C tier. All right, let's just speed Mind upload, as in uploading and then beaming that on a distant exoplanet. Obvious problem is that at that distant location already before you obviously do this. But even putting that aside, personally, I'm a little bit skeptical a true mind upload of the human brain, but I do think we could one day send an artificial general intelligence This is obviously a long way off, but again, it doesn't violate physics, and so we'll go C tier here. Next up we have negative Consider that a pair of gravitationally attract one If negatives existed, then since the acceleration So if we had a positive and a negative, we would have the bizarre situation where the two would accelerating forever in a straight line. This would obviously be very useful for interstellar propulsion, because negative masses is a There's no reason to think they exist. Now it's time for a personal Well, look, I'm obviously because I invented the damn thing. And you can learn all about the halo drive in our previous video on this topic. This is kind of like a We approach a black hole, which skirts the event horizon. Due to either binary motion, or frame dragging of the black the laser beam will skirt steal momentum from it, and and push it away at high speed. This can reach up to 4/3 of which is often relativistic. The downside here is that The nearest natural one is likely a few dozen light years away, but perhaps there is a primordial But on the plus side, it it can accelerate truly gigantic vessels, even planet-sized things, and finally, it is energetically free. But I have to admit, this is more of the highway I think it's pretty cool, All right, time for two last techniques. The ion drive really deserves more time, but it is essentially a rocket where the propellant are ions, spewed out the back using So you do need a separate power system to generate those fields, but that power system Further, the fields are without using heat, so there are no limitations if you go too hot here. Because the propellant can move so fast, ion drives are very efficient, specific impulses of several thousand, and they've been used in space, such as Deep Space 1 However, they produce tiny thrust, meaning they take a to useful speeds, so overall, Finally, we have the Bussard ramjet, which aims to just smash floating around in space, and then use that for nuclear fusion. Devised by Robert Bussard, the idea has been criticized due to the challenges without losing excessive energy. There's also the challenges of interactions with the solar wind and also just the challenges of the extreme technologies needed here. It doesn't violate physics, so I'm gonna put this down here as C tier. Okay, that's my list, but I'm sure you have your own opinions. Please do let me know down As I said, this wasn't exhaustive, but I think it gives us a good smorgasbord of the possibilities and how they compare. You know, interstellar travel It feels like our destiny and one day discover all of I've accepted that I will never as much as I wish that was not the case. But a photo in my lifetime, And perhaps we could but still interstellar ships, departing in our lifetimes too. Missions designed to last for centuries as gifts to our descendants. The main thing that I take away by thinking about this problem is that we really limit ourselves if we insist on only thinking about ideas which are executable in human lifetimes. If we refuse to bother, unless the journey could be completed in a few decades or less, then the day may never come But if we relax that and we are willing to entertain missions that could last for centuries, look, we could plausibly do it now. We could launch ships that reap the benefit from. Yes, you won't see the fruit but humanity will. Some projects like building a cathedral just take centuries to because it is not always sometimes it's about the society. So until next time, stay Hey, thank you so much I hope you enjoyed it. Be sure to hit the like If you wanna become a the Cools Worlds Lab, you can use the link up above, down below. I sincerely appreciate it. And if you haven't already just go to &quot;Cool Worlds&quot; Again, links down below Thanks again for watching. (gentle ethereal music)