Slavery. It's one human history. of people that have depression in many being horrible, it's many forms of slavery world, whether as slavery, or sex many people approves slavery. and New Testament, for slaves and their case, doesn't the loving and just God video, we're going to to say about slavery, an answer if just know in case topic, I have six Hey Impact family, watching our videos. isn't just to make a real impact in you haven't already please subscribe to a thumbs up when you or want to give more, join our Impact of coffee each month. is working hard to our members exclusive looks, and first And for this coming things to announce, of it, please And that's all. If the join button in thank you and back to God created us in His and beauty. Genesis 31. Then God said, after our likeness.&quot; image, in the image and female, He created that He had made, and this passage at the God creates this over the course the earth, the heavens, plants, and vegetation, and all the And on day six, the He rests on the which is the created Adam and creation, because He and likeness. You see, in God's image, which value, dignity, and themselves, but from about what makes have a very valuable by your favorite kill me for this, a Patrick Mahomes willing to pay you its value, which is Factors like what is Mahomes? Is it are available? And I this Mahomes jersey even say limited by want you to see is objects like Mahomes human beings. You in the same way and are special to displayed in our You see, our value is because we are all whose image is talents and person's value is not image of an to slavery in the that God from the special because they and he said it was entered into the themselves and others that leads us to his people from chapter 20 verses 1 to saying, &quot;I am the you out of the land slavery.&quot; In this the Ten Commandments Israelites that he in Egypt. And I know Ten Commandments as laws, but this who had a strong slavery and with his the Egyptians. And I was a real and painful but God personally and this revealed his those created in to the problem of the first book of people are made in book of the Bible, And unfortunately, Creation went on, against each other. number three. God allows certain forms of slavery to exist in provisions for past. Deuteronomy &quot;You shall not give has escaped from his with you in your within one of your you shall not wrong the Old Testament law, moral laws, civil the Israelites. As only the moral law that the civil and today. For Testament is &quot;do not commandment. So you applies to Christians law affirms by religious practices festivals. So laws about giving burnt offerings, for example, And civil laws relate laws about pledges for Christians. But just because we don't need to abide by that doesn't mean these laws that and show various to our lives today. This specific law slaves, ensuring and slaves here. Now let's Testament. Ephesians Bond servants, obey your trembling with a Christ. Masters, do threatening, knowing master and yours is no partiality with wrote this during a very influential in still a widely servant is related usually associated some sort of debt with the expectation of freedom. And here Paul sincerely as if he he reminds masters respect, knowing I would even explicit command for their slaves. So get and mutual respect, And Paul commands remember who they in a way that would Christ. And in the to not forget who treat their slaves reality. And some of Paul command more? just how bad slavery give others more of like chattel or sex are good points. number four. The New the act of Timothy chapter one that the law is understanding this, for the just, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the profane, for those mothers, for men who practice perjurers, and doctrine. In this on how to leave the a lot of order and worship and doctrinal instruction. And in this out for false which could disrupt the church. And he who need redemption out specific types of to see that he lists would have included and selling people groups this sin murder and sexual interesting, this passage along with many others is what to their resistance those of you who a form of slavery sold, or owned as slavery that continued recently. And back verse as a powerful should resist going back to Paul, about slavery. Next, Paul wrote Philemon sole purpose of Philemon chapter one verses eight to ten. Accordingly, though to command you to do love's sake, I prefer an old man and now Jesus, I appeal to For those of you Philemon, Philemon was man who lived in owned a large house worship and prayer. generosity and And he had many Onesimus. And from Onesimus ran away and Philemon. But after Apostle Paul, Onesimus assisted Paul And Paul loved wanted to help him So Paul sent a heartfelt letter. asked Philemon to welcome Onesimus back, not as a slave, Also, if you read Philemon of his own And he said that the love of Jesus. And just read, notice apostolic authority to he uses love rather Onesimus' freedom. Now, an apostle and leader the Holy Spirit, request the freedom of a slave. So note that instead of Paul encouraged freedom and brotherhood through Christ. And he to persuade can you see the the New Testament? God the freedom of the New Testament And this tells me slavery in the to be free. Martin letter that Paul Onesimus and sets his cause with his us with God the You see, this is the power of freedom in Christ. Which Thought number six. for people of all There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. for you are all one in Christ Jesus. This passage describes the Christians share to Christ Jesus our faith in Christ identity that we might have. gender, or social that these other or irrelevant to Christian is what with many diverse want you to see is that the social distinction, neither attributes unity to who are slaves because Christ. To put it all equal and the discrimination in God. Yes, God has mistreating others institutions like will not exist in earth. And as God we will see even discrimination, and he intended from the our main thoughts. God value, dignity, and people from slavery in forms of slavery to included provisions the past. The New the act of enslaving finally meant in sole purpose of and faith in Christ all kinds. Sadly, we slavery has done in presents us with the to bring life, creation. And as we never forget that acts of deliverance in to deliver others from slavery, and he continues to work Spirit to bring all. So today, we can his mighty acts of and ultimately, the slavery to sin found his only Son. And and even enslaved to by death on a cross, might free us from rampant forms of evil This gospel message restoration, of every tribe, as Jesus says in John you free, you will to offer you that away. So as you consider this, (upbeat music) Hey guys, thank you so And if it blessed you, and clicking the notification bell. Also, I wanted to give a huge shout out to the team listed below. Their hard work So please support in the description below. And if you didn't know, I called Practical Christianity. So if you'd like to support me, please check it out and subscribe. The link is also Also, I wanna say Honestly, every bit when it comes to making videos. And if you'd like to please consider becoming a member. For the price of a you can help support us in our mission to spread God's word through our videos. So again, thank you and we'll see you guys next time. God bless.