- Now I'm just picking at myself. Now I'm just like, &quot;Everything's broken.&quot; (grumbling) (upbeat music) So we're going to three and we're going to see what they would say about how to change my I don't feel like personally a plastic surgeon. But I am curious to about my face. And I am curious to see I expect to be told that like a total tear down. I think that we live in the but I do think that that Often when I'm reading negative comments about even think of before. People say I look like a thumb. The female version of Drew Carey. Honestly we live in the golden age of insults more than anything. We've been talking about will say, and we think that give three completely of what they would do to my face, or they're going to all say the same thing and that I'm gonna have Sears catalog face. (upbeat electronic pop music) Going to surgeon one, I'm What if my face is like an old house that we have to flip in order - My name is Dr. David Amron, and the founder and Roxbury Institute in - So what is a typical consultation like? - The usual way of going about it as a doctor is just to ask, &quot;So what are you here for? &quot;What do you wanna do?&quot; I really don't do it that way. I very quickly turn it When I look at somebody's it into all these areas and with my own idea of a treatment plan. - At first I thought it would just tell me exactly what Like, it's my face, not your face. But it makes sense, like, He's seen lots and lots of faces. - So if I came to you, me personally, if I &quot;What would you do to my &quot;it to like an optimal model standard?&quot; What would you do to my face? - Right now, you want me to go into it? - Yeah. - [David] You ready to go? - Yeah, let's go. - Good, let's do it. (upbeat, bumbling music) Let's take a look. - So this obviously just and not a thing that's actually - Area number one are Botox here, that's it. Not here, not here. You're starting to get of the eyebrow area. - It's weird because we're while he's describing the things happening to my face, and it's like oh yeah, I guess that is a thing about that you can see Ugh, I wonder if other people notice it. - Firstly, I'm recommending liposuction in the neck area. It's not only gonna remove and tighten that up. Would I jump into doing an upper called a blepharoplasty? I really would at this point. - I was thinking at the that he would just recommend so I was pleasantly surprised just very subtle changes. - We're going to the third area, okay? Contour. You know, everybody has a little bit of asymmetry. The right side of your than the left side. The left side's a little a little bit, that's why this is a little bit fuller here. - Oh. I never noticed it, but yeah. - Do you see that? I would very subtly contour a touch of restylane here and here. I'd like to see a little Last area is skin. The skin itself has very - Okay, I'll take that. We're in the first Like, a long time. - Your chin is pinker. You've got rosacea. And rosacea's adult acne, so That's a whole long discussion in terms of topical things, possibly oral things. - So you wouldn't do anything to my nose? - I'd like to see more I'd like to see your nose - So, it would be longer - Yeah, yeah. - I think that's, yeah, I think that's it. I think this is everything. (upbeat pop music) - That was interesting. I thought that he was super professional. It seemed like he was kind of like, &quot;Let's work with the face you have &quot;and not with the face you Which is good 'cause like, I grew it myself. I definitely feel not as good Obviously this is what I asked for. But it's still hard. So now we're going to go see Dr. Li and we're going to see what she says about turning my face into that of a model's. (upbeat music) - I'm Dr. Linda Li, I'm a practicing here in Beverly Hills. So a consultation with me first and foremost, what bothers you, because it's not about me, in this room, it's about you. - So the second surgeon's ordering at a restaurant and then getting what you ordered, was a little bit more Just as an experiment, if you were to shape my face into a what would you do to my face? - So we probably couldn't but we could give you some aspects. What I always like to in an upside-down egg. So a little fuller on to the narrow point in the center. - Alright, let's step into the office. (upbeat music) - Starting down from below, have incredible, sharp jawlines, so we would talk about a right through here. We would get rid of this right here. You have a jawline now. - [Linda] When it comes to is decrease the flare wanna kinda bring it in, right through here. More cheeks up through here. Take out the smile lines bit of volume up here. - Wow, now that I see my face this way, I don't know if I can unsee it. - [Linda] You could just - Well yeah. - [Linda] Wrap it around - She's very quick, She's very about the upside down egg. - Your eyes are fantastic of your brows, but we a little bit deeper, so if just a little bit up here - You mean take out some of the skin here? - Take out a little of the extra skin. You have beautiful you're compensating with What we can do is with you more lip. This is very popular thing right now. Everybody wants the side lip. - So she says all the to have happen to my face really fast. It's like, cheeks, lips, fillers. And it seems like it's So do people come to you of celebrities being like, - Patients don't come in but they do come in with faces from social media networks that they happen to like. I explain to them that none These pictures are all Photoshopped. - So they just wanna be Photoshopped? People just want you to get and just make them a new face. - If I could do that, I would - [Kristin] Thank you so much. - Absolutely, thank you for coming in. (upbeat music) - Both the consults I've friendly, very professional, very good, and I was like, &quot;Yep, good.&quot; I felt good in them and Everyone's positive, good and be like, &quot;Well that's I mean I will say that they did both say that they would never of all the patients' flaws, That is what we are getting. I'm very mad at the patriarchy right now. It makes me really sad that that's where our money has to go. It has to literally go 'Cause that's another is make my lips bigger. It did seem like the to my face were very It seemed bigger to me, I think, because this is stuff I've never experienced, but to them it was like You want some fillers? You want some botox? You want a different nose? Just throw it in the card, we'll get it. (rock music) So we're on our way to I think I know what but I'm really hoping doesn't add any new insecurities of insecurities I already have. (rock music) - My name's Harrison Lee. I'm a oral maxillofacial surgeon, ENT, and facial plastic surgeon. My approach is usually I ask the patient what they're seeking first - So are we ready to - Let's do it. - Okay, let's do it. (upbeat music) So obviously this is a thought experiment. Like, we're not actually going to do this. - Okay. So, lets' go from the top, down. Length here of the forehead but the brow is a little bit prominent, so I would like to retract - And that means shave the done down? - [Harrison] Right. - Okay. - Shave the bone down. Sometimes what I do is I actually put cement in here, bone cement, to make it rounder from the side. - Okay. - It makes it very attractive. We need to reduce the girth here. Reduce the jaw angles and a genioplasty. The chin's a little bit So what we need to do and back a little bit. - So then you just shave all that off. - [Harrison] Right, and then I take out a middle segment of the chin. - There's a lot of bone restructuring. I've very surprised by that. - And then what we need to do, then, is a little bit of a lift. Did you wanna do anything with the nose? - Yeah, I mean do everything - [Harrison] I would maybe This needs to come in. - Like that? Okay. - Maybe open up the upper Take out a little bit of fat. Lower eyes look great. I keep waiting for him to be like, &quot;Oh also, you need to And he never says it which makes me hope that maybe he didn't see them. - Total operating time - Wow. That's a long time. - But it'll be a transformation. (upbeat music) - One funny thing about the last surgeon said nothing about my mouth. The first surgeon to say And he thought my cheeks were great. Yeah, see, the compliments You know, this is my getting a little used to it, but, every time is hard, man. Being in a plastic surgeon's office and having them tell you all the things about your face that you've lived with for your entire life that in order for society to to be a model, is a lot. It's a lot emotionally to do at once. And I did it three times. (upbeat music) - So we got the photos back I'm gonna go show Kristin. Hi. - What up. - [Caitlin] This is for you. - Oh, oh, it's for me. It's a present. - It's the photos. - Okay, alright. - Yeah, I'm ready, let's look at these. - Cool. - Yeah. Alright, here we go, here's number one. Oh. This actually doesn't look from me. It's like, I look like but not quite, it's really strange. This is actually like, pretty natural. I'm actually really the surgeon thought would because it's not that far from my face. It basically just is my face, You ready for surgery two? Okay, this is one is much It is, woo, I'm like Malibu Barbie. This looks like if someone This is how hot they would be. Now that I'm looking at it in comparison to like my original face, like wow. That is not even the same person. This is kind of more what I was thinking in terms of, like, a model standard. Surgeon one's photo and not look a like at all. Will surgeon three's photo Let's find out. Alright, I'm opening it. Nope. It does not. Surgeon three's photo might I think. My chin is gone, but my neck is very long. My chin is a recurring with a lot of prominence, without a chin is very strange. It would be like if on The Office. I thought it would be different, but I didn't think it I didn't think it would be like, completely different visions. You ready, Fred? - Okay, alright. - Here we go. - Oh my god. - It's too early for this. Hold on a second, my mind is not. - Yeah, I see the biggest and chin. - [Kristin] Each one - The middle one is very Kylie, to me. - It definitely kind of &quot;Okay, there isn't one &quot;so why are we stacking &quot;that is not real?&quot; - What one doctor would different from what - If I were a surgeon, and I would've just been like, &quot;I gave you 10 more teeth.&quot; - So if three professional surgeons can't agree on a standard of beauty, who's to say that any of them are right? Or that any of them are wrong? I think my big takeaway is that, yeah, beauty if very subjective. What was interesting about this experiment is that it gave me a I like about my face. About what makes it special. The things about my face unattractive or ugly, those are part of my calling card. I think it's really easy who get plastic surgery But I think it's important to keep in mind that there are some people the difference between a So to be clear, I am not to get plastic surgery. But if it's a choice that make the choices you But on the other hand, I faces that were beautiful but I never saw any faces So why not have my face there now? (upbeat music)