John Bell and his family lived in a rural Tennesse farmland. They tended to the land and lived a house would become a hub for supernatural events horror, and even....death. Get ready for one of the referred to as "America's greatest ghost story." The year is 1817. John Bell and his family acres of land in Red River, now known as in the house - the couple has either six John and his wife Lucy gave birth to Jesse, Zadock, Elizabeth - known as Betsy, Richard had already moved out of the house, and one The Bells have already been raising their family thirteen years since 1804, with no particular One day, John Bell takes a walk out rifle with him. He spots something odd out Bell sees a large animal sitting in a corn with the only difference being...it Taken aback and sufficiently disturbed the animal several times, which runs but still believing he must have made some sort So John puts this strange occurrence out of his the bizarre incidents are only the beginning. That same night, the entire Bell family Alternating between what sounds like outside, the sounds continue throughout the the older sons run outside to try and see if but to no avail. Every time they Over the next few evenings, the intensity with the beatings getting so loud the children are unable to sleep. But then one The younger Bell children wake up one night are gnawing at their bedposts. As you might have As if the sound of invisible rodents an invisible force starts yanking bed covers aside. It seems whatever this malevolent Soon, a female voice can be soft and unintelligible at first. and with every day that passes, the The voice echoing throughout the and even starts having conversations. Eventually, by name. And it becomes clear she has One day, the entity announces its intentions: No clear reason is given except one: "Mr. Bell Frightened and lost, John Bell doesn't know still reluctant to ask any authorities, religious of the Red River Baptist Church, and living right church, and the town at large, that evil forces proposition in a country that was still killing So John decides to go to his best Johnson is understandably skeptical. He house with his wife so he can see what's the same supernatural activity that has starts again. Johnson has his bed covers He calls on the spirit to ask what it wants. The next morning, Johnson tells John Bell that the kind the Bible talks about". He convinces John preacher, and the community at large. John does Unfortunately, the more attention is brought the stronger it seems to grow. Neighbors by to try and figure out what or make it disappear, and each interaction One phantom response goes, "I am but I have been disturbed and made unhappy. I am nearby and the grave was distrubed, and one of my teeth was lost under this Some locals checked the Bell farm mounds present on the grounds, Native Another time, the spirit said it was "a Spirit am in the air, the houses, any place at any However, the explanation neighbors stuck spirit its name, was the spirit's Batts was a neighbor of John Bell's, and town for behaving in "strange" ways. Though the strange ways might have been things Batts' brother-in-law, Benjamin, had a business deal with John Bell a dispute over the sale of a slave. So....no one Over the years, local people twisted facts and said the dispute was between Kate, of course, vehemently denies in witchcraft or responsible for this the local community had become juuuuust over an accusation of witchery. Though many of However, the idea that a witch is Hence, the Bell Witch Haunting. Besides killing John Bell, the has another big objective in mind. She and violence on another member of the Betsy would get scratched, slapped and hit the ghost had a specific problem with her childhood sweetheart and current fiance, thing for a ghost to threaten; but being against The repeated threats from the witch against the She eventually meets up with Joshua outside marry him. As a witness to the violence and Betsy cannot risk her own or her family's safety. In the midst of all this, a future US intrigued by tales of the haunting that he Three of the Bell sons had fought under him, So in 1819, Andrew Jackson comes with an entourage of military The first strange occurrence happens before The wagon comes to a halt, and despite the fact moving again. Jackson and his men try repeatedly Suddenly, a disembodied female General, let the wagon move Jackson and his men continue on to the house and His men are a little perplexed, but hardly one of his men even proudly taunts be a "witch tamer". He pulls out a pistol the soldiers that the witch won't bother him, Anyone who's seen a horror movie can The "witch tamer" starts screaming as his body until eventually, he is literally kicked The rest of the soldiers are terrified and and they are spotted in Springfield Unfortunately, it seems terrifying satisfy the Bell Witch. She has John Bell, now approaching his 70s, starts to experience erratic facial twitching, and trouble swallowing. as seizures today. Perhaps, unknown to the rest However, throughout this whole time, the vowing to kill him time and time again. And on December 20, 1820, John The family wakes up to find him dead in his bed. Since John was 70 years old and the last few months of his life at natural causes or illness. But there's According to family members, they find a vial after John's death. No one has any idea or could even recognize it. After testing it John Bell's funeral was one of the largest from miles away, some who had known others curious about the haunting Three priests eulogize John while the funeral mourners prepare to leave the funeral, a voice laughing and singing, her long-stated goal After John's death, the witch disappears, but not before telling the family Shockingly enough, in seven years, the tell the community that the witch is sounds, and shaking have started up again. It seems the witches' aims this time are less John Junior, makes some noise around the house, family that she will be back in 1935. No, According to some sources, she never returned. say that the witch, in fact, never family and the property they lived on, causing Tourists flock to Adams, Tennessee to see the the haunting. Though the cave wasn't a focus it's the only part of the Bell property in the early 1800s, as the original Therefore, visitors go to the undisturbed Many historians doubt a lot of the lore insist that many accounts, including that unverified but likely false. A lot of the legends "Authenticated History of the Bell Witch", Ingram's book was written 73 meaning Ingram himself wasn't even born when the He supposedly based his work on Richard Bell's events took place, didn't even note down the US historians insist that Jackson's whereabouts and nowhere is a visit to Robertson County any specific court records or mentions of John Thus, many historians are extremely skeptical or that the events even took place. However, and it has been told and retold by generations Many people, especially those from the and some even believe the Bell What do you think of the Bell Witch Haunting? family's minds? Let us know in the comments! to deal with in your house, spend your time