PRASAD SETTY: Good Welcome to our Talks at We are very fortunate to who doesn't need Seriously, how many people to Malcolm Gladwell? [LAUGHTER] PRASAD SETTY: Malcolm was of &quot;The Tipping Point,&quot; He's received many honors. But I think what he's of having accomplished in his was our very first Authors And so that has started where we now have had more to Google and share Malcolm has recently called &quot;David and Goliath.&quot; And that is what we'll The format for this, is more of a fireside chat. I have a set of questions that with me, things that they'd Malcolm's perspectives on. But we'll certainly open it up too. And so there are mikes. And when it's time, I'll ask And then we do have to pass around of So let's give a very warm round [APPLAUSE] PRASAD SETTY: Malcolm, what would you like to and why you chose to write it? MALCOLM GLADWELL: Well, &quot;David and Goliath.&quot; And it's about and the art of battling giants. It's about a number of things. But it's principally about and the strategies that are And then sort of about the accuracy of our and the nature of advantages So is our perception in an side is the favorite and the accurate? Or is it an illusion based about the nature of advantage? And then the third has to do with a more useful way of learning than conditions So it's called because the story is in fact a of this very thing. David's choice of is actually an incredibly You place a rock and you swing it around revolutions per second. You release one of the chords. The rock goes forward on the weight of of probably 30 The stopping power of a typical is the equivalent of And the accuracy of people of these things We know from primitive with a couple of could hit the very easily from So David up against Goliath Routinely slingers which is what Goliath is, In fact, ancient on their kind of payroll The minute he and it changes the rules of He's not going to lose, right? There's only Goliath, And then the other is that Goliath-- there's in the medical going on with Goliath all these weird things he does. He moves very slowly. He's led on to the valley And the thinking is that he which is the condition on your pituitary gland of human growth hormone. He's tall. He's a giant. Giants are often-- you know, We think Abraham When people are unusually tall, And acromegaly which is that it compresses And people with acromegaly often Goliath is probably half So a guy who's against another guy with an accurate to within from 50 yards away and with the And yet for 3,000 that guy is an underdog. It's insane, right? It's the most irrational of advantages and So the question is if we in the way we have read the parties in that most how many other And that's what And I think the answer is lots. PRASAD SETTY: And you a few real underdogs And one of the examples you was about this girl's Tell us about that and MALCOLM GLADWELL: Well this started writing the book is I may know, the guy who founded I met him at a conference and Weirdly, by the way, I in this exact same thing where did not realize who had a conversation with The first person I did I met him years he was just a graduate student. And I had no idea. And so I was like, where He's like, oh, So we just talked about for about 45 minutes. And then afterwards, do you know who you I had no clue. Anyway, I did the same So he started he coached his 12-year-old And because he's Indian, he So he goes to-- I mean-- [LAUGHTER] PRASAD SETTY: I MALCOLM GLADWELL: OK. Good. Just checking. There was no natural he would know a lot PRASAD SETTY: Underdogs. [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: Although, only an India, a could claim to be an underdog. So Vivek goes and studies-- in kind of way-- goes to and becomes convinced that irrational in the way Because he doesn't if you are the weaker you don't do the full Because you're going to And by not playing you are allowing your opponent that your opponent is to pass and dribble and Why would you give them to doing the thing that So he says your only and to defeat them at the things play the full court press. If it fails, so what? You're going to lose anyway. But at least you've of losing from 95% to This is relevant to him because without any talent whatsoever. These are the very, very, daughters of programmers [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: And his strategy to learn how to shoot, We're not even going to practice What you're going to get you in really, And I'm going to teach you to And what happens is that if in a basketball game made the other team will not advance And so Vivek's by scores like eight, nothing. [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: to the national championships. It's such a hilarious story. And, of course, the by this, first of because the thing that Vivek is not actually If you don't dribble, no intention of so at the end of the game is that's not basketball. That's another sport. And so they throw They challenge him to fist They scream at the refs. And he is sort of To him this is more of of the American And that is a lovely because why is he compelled Because he's got nothing, right? He's got bupkis. His girls are incapable of right? So what does that do? It spurs him to find a that's far more successful. And this is, of course, the right? That nothing acts to innovation then the So if that's the case, where it is not advantageous The only situation is if his girls are So there's a series You could have no talent, and you can be The only situation have reached the is in the 99th ninth where his team is But had he been at so he's in the 1% condition. That's advantageous you to play the The 99th percentile But the two through because you have no to try anything new. Your instinct is just the game is supposed So had his girls been they would've been worse off. PRASAD SETTY: So should be as bad as we can be? MALCOLM GLADWELL: there are situations where being And I don't go into but if you've read what &quot;Innovator's Dilemma&quot; The disruptive who is incapable of meeting as the market is They can't do it. So what they do they do? They try a completely which in the beginning, But by that very nature of outside the upending the-- they would never be So it's the same PRASAD SETTY: One of talk about in the your chance of is something that you say And the acronym that you use Cognitive Disorder. Tell us about that something I'm sure we MALCOLM GLADWELL: I at the Google And because I was I invented the acronym It's not actually in the book. Elite Institution Cognitive that attending the most elite is always in your best interest. This is false. There are a number of where it is not in your best the best school But rather it's in to go to, at the very and probably, ideally, your The reason is as follows. The best predictor of success environment like, for example, the one I use in my book getting a science and math education at the is marked by dropout rates Most people who try to get a So the question is if you would degree, what is the And the optimal to the best school you get into. Why? Because the best predictor a degree is not your absolute but your relative It's your class rank. It's your rank relative to not your SAT score or your IQ. So basically anyone, if you of your class, your rise astronomically. So you should basically that minimizes your in the bottom third What does that mean? Don't go to a good Now what's fascinating the amazing thing appear to have the psychological in the bottom half of any In other words, is the prestige of And what we undervalue of not succeeding And so there's a of this in this study that So what we do is we take in economics in America. And we break the they rank in their And then we look at six years out of These are those who So in something like economics, as the number of by prestigious journals. It's used as a proxy for What do we find when What we find is the at Harvard, Stanford, publishes a lot of papers, They're brilliant. But the drop off from the is astronomical. And by the time you get to at elite schools, they're In fact, the 95th at the worst PhD will publish more and be a the 75th percentile student Now, there are many But the most is it is so traumatic and to be in an elite program and beat the crap out of you, but And my message at was that I think to this line of reasoning on the basis of on the basis of institution. In other words, you don't tell when it comes to and graduate institution. We should be indifferent to We should only ranked because if it's so other than the top I don't want you if you weren't right? Now I'm being playful But the point is have allocated our strengths? And our notion of and what is a disadvantage are We've become obsessed with We have not paid attention to And that's a mistake. PRASAD SETTY: But to get motivated by being smarter than they are, right? So that's sort of-- MALCOLM GLADWELL: Not [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: No, I mean, I want to find reasons to All my friends went Should I have them to go to But the problem is that when for those advantages, I don't go into it in my book. But there's a long in economics in for the value of And they can't find it. So we know that it is the goes to Harvard earns more money than a student who goes to OK. But that doesn't tell What you really need to do is to get into Harvard, and one goes to And then compare And when you equalize you can't find any difference. In other words, it's is making you a lot of money. It's the kind of person who makes a lot of money. And then there is an even There's now been like and it's so interesting. They now look at So what is the benefit of going Now, intuitively, you would You must be able to see, whether of the college you go must see some impact of that. And we can't find advantage. Once you do that if you are a smart it doesn't matter Smart is smart, which is PRASAD SETTY: [INAUDIBLE]. Thank you. I want to switch You know, you do of popularizing social sciences. And by the way, I forgot I'm Prasad Setty. I'm part of people operations. And I lead the is composed of many love the fact that their kind of thinking How do you distill and aggregate done in the social with what you think are Because as you've are lots of studies And some of them point Others point towards a MALCOLM GLADWELL: for trends in the research. And so, for example, was just mentioning the value of elite schools, And you've got a that have been done in the pretty rich data coming to roughly So that's the sort of What you want to steer clear of that is sitting all by itself. That doesn't mean it's wrong. It's just you have to But there's no shortage. I mean, the thing that's a sort of student is that the number of things ideas that are being that are being drawn that are with conventional If you're in the game looking in academic to challenge the way there's an embarrassment I mean, it's not hard to do. So to me, what always fascinating and buried in academia, just because no one bothers and popularizing it. I mean, it's astounding if you talk to academics, that they think that the rest it's like this long. So it's not a very [LAUGHTER] PRASAD SETTY: Related question. You use a lot of stories to And the stories add a lot and we can really But how do you ensure that the are the most representative trying to describe? Because you could to fit any theory that MALCOLM GLADWELL: Yeah. So there's a whole set Storytelling, by great disadvantage, which a single narrative, On the other side story telling has a which is there is no better way than through story. So what I've always tried I try to balance storytelling research is that some kind of middle ground. I'm trying to find is being made in the and illustrated by So it's rare that the It's not that I hear something to fit that. It's the other way around. I look for an idea that's And I say, well, how can I make that, sorry, So you hunt for stories that you feel has some But that said, it's a All my books are I don't imagine that agree with 100% of I don't even want them of the things in the book. That's not what you want. You're not looking for converts. You want people to And writers who are looking I think what you're you want people to I did a piece for the &quot;New about doping in sports. And I'm a big runner. I'm a huge fan of If my favorite to be using some kind of Nonetheless, my piece from Lance Armstrong's Or look at it from Alex I simply pointed out that we use to justify our enhancing drugs or really lame. They're insanely lame. And you can't run around them and putting them on the basis of So lame argument number the one that I cannot get over if you're a pitcher, to replace in your elbow, which is the you throw a baseball-- to take a tendon taken from another part if you so choose. This tendon will have that are infinitely that nature gave you. You can swap it out, bring extend your career, be able And what do we do? We think that's fantastic. 75% of pitchers in have had this procedure done. No one bats an eyelash. The guy who pioneered is considered to be a hero. Alex Rodriguez is who decides to a naturally-- he's not taking He's taking a naturally approved by the FDA and to everyone in this room. And he's decided to take it. And what happens? He's considered to Lance Armstrong takes his and reinjects himself and he's considered a villain. So wait a minute. On the one hand, tendons taken from cadavers, performance characteristic And that's fine. But you can't take and reinject yourself with it. And if you do that, Explain to me why that's-- I am Lance Armstrong once contradiction. So there's a case to convince all of No. But if I, by writing force people to just sit with better arguments for why drugs, then I will PRASAD SETTY: I a new benefits idea for Google. Bionic ligaments for so they can code faster. [LAUGHTER] PRASAD SETTY: You talk about never find it to What can we, as society, do to Because there is so much could be useful MALCOLM GLADWELL: It's a In general, I think that the appropriate attitude of ought to be one of respect, You shouldn't always accept But you should be respectful of And I think that that is an great pains as a society to that experts experts will not get respect. This is on display You have a group have no respect for the profession. I saw a guy on TV the from somewhere, who is about economics. I know something about what This is a guy who's in Congress. [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: I mean, But there has to be a kind that you can't ever let as a core ethic in complex society. Expertise is at the heart And you have to create under which expertise And if you let down your crazy things start to happen. You have people that they don't want to And you have people running if we defaulted in two weeks. You know, there's this kind of I mean, that's not an because it's really But the people in we're all the people who PRASAD SETTY: Makes sense. Why don't folks start I think we have one out here But I'll keep going As you think about all the has there been an have captured that's your own behavior, MALCOLM GLADWELL: Well, &quot;Blink,&quot; my so profoundly undermined my to make good I floundered for But in all kinds of ways I realizing the degree underestimate the role of the And we're constantly that make it sound to in a logical, And we're simply not. One of the guys I run with And he was telling me about this that looked at how the to grant parole varied So right before lunch, judges and don't grant parole at all. And then when they come back That's the kind of thing where I up all the criminal and you told them that, so vigorously. They're convinced that they And you do the and you discover a very Now, maybe some part of Who knows? But it certainly merits Well, I feel like there's And we're so resistant that about our lives. PRASAD SETTY: Why don't we take AUDIENCE: So I was really talk about elite institutions. And thinking if we take institution, I'm on the potential damage we and our employees can be the superstar. And yet most of the were superstars before. So I'm curious if you have on the impact of that MALCOLM GLADWELL: So this So how do you restructure that you minimize the at the bottom of the hierarchy? So one way is to limit the So the thing that is so toxic and math programs is is a hierarchy. You give out grades, and And you're in a classroom trying to do the same thing. So you can easily compare and know whether you're behind. Those conditions apply in the workplace. It's possible to don't have the toxic element of AUDIENCE: We shouldn't MALCOLM GLADWELL: Well, I don't it wouldn't be as But I'm saying that you can very hierarchical way or The other thing it would say something about I mean, it would would think-- It's really about the To the extent that you can as possible, I think you by hierarchy's. AUDIENCE: Hi. Thanks for coming to speak. So I just started in people And since I've a lot of people recommend and other books like that, And I can't help but like that are kind of, as the &quot;flim flam,&quot; or like modern And I'm wondering if you because I know companies those kinds of books MALCOLM GLADWELL: I've never read any of those. I mean, I know that AUDIENCE: In sales or in MALCOLM GLADWELL: In sales. [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: But say it's interesting is such a hunger for I will say this, people are poor. Most people to organizing principles If you're not immersed and you don't have the grand theories, you don't have So whenever someone comes along for something that you're it's enormously attractive. So if &quot;Strength Finder&quot; is just to come up with better ways of-- but it's is a massive demand for to organize their experience. AUDIENCE: Hey Malcolm. My name is Mike. Thanks for being here. My question is to the value of elite So you talk about goes to Harvard, to the University of Tennessee, going to do the same if they are So I guess my you hear you're kind of the you hang around. You surround yourself with than you, you will naturally Do you believe in that? Or do you believe seems like your demerits towards MALCOLM GLADWELL: Well, One is that one of the is that there are a lot at non-elite institutions And actually this is kind So to take a step backwards, is how efficient are elite as search engines for talent? What percentage of do they actually uncover? And the answer is we used to What we have they're actually In other words, enormous numbers capable people never even come in the country. So non-selective colleges of the intellectual aristocracy So to your question, if you go you can find lots of very, very intellectually to hang around with. And if you are that kid who you will probably So you'll be surrounded by peers But the difference is that be the top of your to running the risk at being So you're getting two benefits, as opposed to maybe only one. The other thing, of course, leave it at that. There are many, many parallel Now, of course, not everyone If everyone does, it Everyone can't go down a notch. So the whole thing is if you're do it quick before I sell too is wiped out. AUDIENCE: So you said in that it would be useful to that you get rid of this problem But how do we know that's the just a great boost to people And if that was the maybe we should just have to recognize people. MALCOLM GLADWELL: Oh, I see. You mean have a kind where you give everyone AUDIENCE: Or maybe even more levels of hierarchy. MALCOLM GLADWELL: Oh, I see. Well, so the classic study-- The classic study which I talk about in the that was done. The largest psychological was done during the second And one of the most was a comparison of Force, the Air Corps, the and commissioned officers And the question was with their promotion of their institution And the answer was that the were way more than people in the Air Force. This was very puzzling because in the military police, in the Air Force. So why would people in the military police? Well, the answer is that so many Force, that getting promoted The median condition was not getting promoted. So if you didn't get promoted you were like, well, no one is. That's fine. If you didn't get oh, man, you're devastated getting promoted. And if you did get promoted, Everyone's getting promoted. So it's like this You think that you're by promoting everyone. But you're not. You're simply altering the So, yeah, I don't know whether with hierarchies is a tricky business. And it's probably better just to PRASAD SETTY: Go ahead. AUDIENCE: Thanks for coming in. My question is a little your media diet. Obviously, as someone who writes you have to go through a But what I was actually was that you had a really with Bill Simmons on and different topics. So I was wondering a little bit of the academic journal how you kind of keep broad across different topics. MALCOLM GLADWELL: Well, So there's an enormous of sports related stuff. And particularly these days I watching obscure meets on sort of live streams So there's that. But I think, you know, my have to very consciously from where you think group is going. So to the extent to things that are I feel I should that are inaccessible online. Or to the extent that I feel I need to So what I've been to kind of-- it's why in actual physical libraries because there's a that you get when you-- meant as a criticism, by for example, which But they also have limitations. They reward a certain and they punish another And if you you're interested as I am-- much of what I uncover you have to be a student of of chance encounters with the And so that means that not screwing around but I also very, sure that I go to and walk through the stacks. And even something as simple as and then you go at all of the books And the connections there are connections But it's a different than they would be It's not a keyword connection. It's a thematic connection. So there's all have to be a student of the cluster. And I've thought a lot as a way of distinguishing AUDIENCE: Hi. Have a quick question. In your last book, &quot;Outliers,&quot; of, whether it's being or having access to the earliest And in this book you called the disadvantages I was wondering if you or how do you reconcile the two? MALCOLM GLADWELL: Well, to that question. So there's clearly a that I play with in this book And desirable of difficulties that have force you to do things that So there's a whole around these people at try to uncover specific examples A good one would be, for would be studying strategies. To the extent that you can difficult, you will So the bjorks have that says if you're learning the best thing to do is to So say I have three tasks I have two choices. I can master the first, master Or I can break up all the and do 10 minutes, 10 They say do the latter even though you have to You go ten minutes, you come back to You're like, oh, what It's this reentry problem. The reentry problem It's why you will remember It's forcing your brain to kind So the idea is a set of things-- getting programming requires and you're in a condition is constrained, early will be an unalloyed But that doesn't mean that that we could find where what preferentially may look be advantageous at all. So my discussion of is all about conditions under can be advantageous. Why? Because the strategies that your reading problem more helpful to So I have this long He's the lawyer who and as a result developed an and an incredible memory. If you're a trial it's more important to and be an incredible listener Not if you're a litigator But if you're a Not if you're, sorry, but if you're a trial lawyer. We can clearly say, look, there and there are That said, on a is there a possible Yeah. [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: But so what? We're all adults. I don't know why people are I think contradiction is fine. I mean, I can identify in my own life. All of you can. In fact, this next is all about the in human behavior. And the idea has always been we seek to do is to locate I think that's nonsense. And there's a lot of very research which suggests What we do is we exploit, our contradictions. They enable us to do all kinds So I'm very interested in-- at lunch-- very interested in behave generously towards an outsider to justify turning on them And the incredible is Adolph Eichmann, of The Final Solution, who not pretending, convincing He reads books on Zionism. He goes to Jerusalem. He hangs out with He teaches himself Hebrew. And he does this. And what that means is that and he's responsible in the '30s from Vienna to Palestine. What does that do? It enables him, when he to be able to say to himself, I don't hate Jews. I was deporting them. I was saving them. I was reading Hebrew And at one of the death he builds a library. And he imports Judaica from in Prague. And he would go and visit concentration camp, and read ancient At his core, this man had And he was driven to resolve it. He used it to did over the course of the war. Now that's a horrible, But my point is that we all have And I think that's part of And just as you can for terrible ends, they are also, at the same explore new ideas and expose and do all kinds of things And if you're not willing in your own life, I think in a certain sense. You're also running huge risks. The Eichmann route is But at the same insists that everything be leading an impoverished So, yeah, I [INAUDIBLE]. AUDIENCE: Thank you. PRASAD SETTY: Why don't AUDIENCE: In the and &quot;The Innovator's you mentioned earlier, how do you stay a giant and not be slayed by a David? [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: Oh, wow. Well, you know you will [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: an example of-- in kind of IBM, which does this unbelievable, that of resuscitate themselves But they might be a sui generis. Maybe they were just in and were so deeply rooted in and had such a deep bench But the rule is you going to last longer Maybe part of the answer as you don't think about Google, right? So years ago, I it was the first time I went to Rochester. And in Rochester, it used hub, Kodak, Xerox, But one of the biggest high tech employers in the I think General Dynamics, one They employed vast And basically their implodes after the Vietnam War. And they shut down their and moved away. And everyone said, oh, my God. It's over. One of the biggest employers And what happened, if you was you discovered that the of General Dynamics so many start-ups in a whole second wave that in terms of employment and greater than the benefits In other words, Google may But you won't. You guys will all, will go on and do other because of what you learned So you can look at it two ways. There's a pessimist view. But there's also a view part of the natural cycle. You probably don't at Google-- is this [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: And nor does society want you evolve in dramatic-- I mean, I'm just using in for-- let's use [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: Let's say-- AUDIENCE: Microsoft. MALCOLM GLADWELL: Microsoft. I mean, at this point would if Microsoft Yeah. [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: How many are trapped working on the right? [LAUGHTER] MALCOLM GLADWELL: a good use of 150 IQ points. So I'd be more kind of than you might be at the moment. PRASAD SETTY: Thank you. I can't think of a [APPLAUSE]