Hawaii. When we think of Hawaii, Coral sand beaches. Coconut palms Waterfalls. Rainbows. Hawaii is all of these things In fact, Hawaii A secret the U.S. Government The American Agenda tonight, At the White House yesterday, President Clinton signed to the people of Hawaii. He was apologizing for the government's involvement in removing the independent On the Agenda tonight, Hawaiian identity. Native Hawaiians who say In touristic Hawaii, hundreds of people demonstrate The reason? The United States Government that considers Hawaii has admitted that a century ago, In 1993, the U.S. Government passed a law. This was approved and ultimately signed into law This was a confession, flat out. Public Law 103-150 was a confession. In that confession, the United States It also admitted that the Hawaiian nation If Hawaii is the 50th state why is it that in 1993, President Bill Clinton the original inhabitants To understand the situation, Hawaii is an archipelago situated in the middle They were probably populated They created a socially Native Hawaiians are Polynesians. They come from a land and many believe Perhaps they were here as early as 100 BC, Two-way voyaging Then, by about the 12th or 13th century, Hawaiians were living here and developing That led to the development here amongst the chains. We had a Kingdom of Kauai, a Kingdom of Maui, Its founding king, Kamehameha the Great, Their soil began to yield food However, the Hawaiian kingdom By the same sea from where visitors from other lands would arrive. Contact with foreigners comes in 1778 It is speculated that there may have been but it's not documented. Captain James Cook, established contact In 1794, the British explorer, gave the court of King Kamehameha, as a token of friendship The Hawaiian Kingdom as an act of recognition In spite of the foreign presence mainly Britain at the time, King Kamehameha He gained international recognition. In 1843, the Kingdom of Hawaii as an independent nation-state, through treaties with the United States, and I believe This was meant to secure through those treaty agreements From that point on, 1843, the Kingdom of Hawaii was recognized As the monarch consolidated the Kingdom of Hawaii with its own identity, In the 19th century, the term Hawaiian or membership to the Hawaiian Kingdom, which throughout the 19th century Beginning in 1843, the Hawaiian Kingdom was the first to become an independent As a sign of recognition several members traveled all over the world They were welcomed as the true representatives In the meantime, Western immigrants By the start of the 19th century, a few American settlers As the American settler population and their interest in business they oftentimes pressuring the government for the economy to develop in a way that these settlers A group of settlers, mainly American, They controlled Their economic power in the affairs of the kingdom increased. When we get to 1893, by that time, these foreign settlers, many of them who were invested were very strong in their opinions When Liliuokalani, when she proposed a group of 13 businessmen, calling themselves the Annexation Club took it upon themselves to remove her from the government. They did this in conjunction, it would seem of the US minister He was misrepresenting his position to take over the queen's government. In the constitution, Queen Liliuokalani only gave who were considered natives of Hawaii. The settlers feared they might lose On the 17th January, 1893, arguing that they were there Queen Liliuokalani was arrested She was forced to abdicate of the invaders. The conspirators took advantage to take control of the archipelago. They created However, the inhabitants of the islands and took action. This is when the people of Hawaii or groups, that protest asking that the United States who have signed this petition do not want do not wish to be annexed. We believe that some 38,000 people out of a Native Hawaiian population The petition did not succeed. On 12th August, 1898, in a ceremony that took place the old residence the flag of the kingdom was taken down The annexation of Hawaii in the local society. This process included the imposition that marginalized The local language In 1896, under the authority a law was passed that stated must take place in English. They didn't outright ban Hawaiian, but in effect, they did, You must use English, Parents became much more reluctant in their homes and certainly in schools, many children were reprimanded when they were expected It's when the US took over our education, they took our language, They took our identity. They nearly succeeded At the same time, which determined Around 1920, being passed in US Congress that what is considered a Native Hawaiian. In that bill, the US Congressional Law, you have, for the first time, that Native Hawaiians half native blood, You start to see American racial logic That lasts for a very long time. Even till this day, these terms, are now defined through US law One 32nd of a drop is still Hawaiian. They said, according to their law, That's bull hash. Yes, they can't give us law. We don't need them coming over here and what not to do. As far as blood quantum is concerned, I'd say they're committing genocide. Big time. This process of Americanization and the imposition of rules led to the violation The place they call Walmart it just happened that my family for eight and a half acres, and that's where they put their store on. They found 66 sets of bones It took seven years to get through for us to put the bones All we're trying to do What would be really interesting where the American veterans are buried, go up there and put up a fancy building. The United States did not settle the suppression of the local language, They wanted statehood. They wanted to turn Hawaii On 12th March, 1959, the U.S. Congress overwhelmingly so Hawaii became It's made official at the White House. President Eisenhower congratulates before a simple ceremony of the United States, with a land area of 6,500 miles Hawaii becomes a state If annexation was illegal, then many believe statehood You certainly continue as to whether or not Hawaii is a state. However, officially, It is not surprising then that whereby his government apologized had been victims of. The law recognized had not voluntarily nor had they accepted You don't need to be a lawyer If the criminal admits and further admits that is your property was stolen, and you never relinquished you need not be a lawyer Hawaiians have one of the best claims That bill should have apologized but that wordage would throw off to sidestep or erase Why did the Americans do it when I heard about the Apology Bill. It was an intent the Hawaiian people even further. The Apology Bill proposed by a senator for Hawaii, to be implemented by the year 2000. His intention was to pass a law federal recognition. The same strategy In 2009, Congress passed the so-called Native Hawaiian also known as the Akaka Law. According to this law, the descendants of could form a government, They could not reclaim before the overthrow or their status of a sovereign nation. I believe the people who are trying to continue to deprive us, were absolutely on the track At the end of it all, first of all, which we're not native, we're nationals, so impostering started, Then the impostering Then the next step was that the Native Hawaiian Most of our people don't know this yet. We're on a different boat. A lot of people like to compare us Well, in our situation, to have a government that actually have never been dissolved. If anything, If they want to be a good big brother For more than a century, the United States has been working as a tourist destination. Behind a facade of paradise hides This history has given rise which have demanded their right It's our land! It's our way of life! Pro-sovereignty movement activists to recover their language and art. At the same time, universities by dusting up old newspapers all written in the local language. The Apology Bill strengthened They started to explore the possibility the one that was in place The Lawful Hawaiian Government My name is Henry Noa. I'm the elected prime minister for the reinstated The Lawful Hawaiian Government It reinstated that was in existence the day our government was overthrown. What has happened since that day till now is that basically, there were actions who are the United States Government to try to justify or even validate their actual existence here, and their authority The Lawful Hawaiian Government, is not legally recognized However, it is not simply but it has its own structure. It legislates and governs We have a House of Nobles, and then the Executive Branch Minister of Foreign Affairs, and a Minister of the Treasury. Currently, we are engaging We realize that we would have to unite under this government. We've done a lot of educational programs Listen, the government still exists It's been absent all these years. All we needed to do was put it back, which is what we're able to accomplish. The second thing is now we need to put The only way that can happen participate in that government the functional bodies of that government. The executive, all of the departments has to be reset, of which In its annual convention, known in the local language the Lawful Hawaiian Government got together to discuss issues the structure of its government, In January 1893, On March 13th, 1999, we, the Kanaka Maoli people came together on the Island of Oahu, and we initiated a process of that government. It's been a long process. From my understanding, the reinstated Lawful Hawaiian Government where now things are going to start to come to exist. Who gave us that right? It's inherent in every Kanaka Maoli, and it's an obligation to fix an injustice, to understand who you are, and you have the perfect right to step forward We've been talking but now we're applying ideas at the Manakau Kanawai and it's going to pan out It's been a long time coming where we can reclaim land We did a lot of preparations Now that we're here, it's a little overwhelming, exciting. We have built a case We know we're dealing backed by the United States, We know that, There has never been a time that we have not worked I say this for all those Because you cannot form a nation We're at that stage where tomorrow, we're going to take some historical steps. We have legislated We brought our constitution and brought it forward to modernize it. That was archaic, We had to modernize it, first of all, That's another thing that happened were charged with creating in the year 2000. One, to modernize the constitution, and two, to decide what style The Lawful Hawaiian Government's is divided into seven districts. Each one has a representative and a noble, according to the ancient traditions In this branch, young and old The way I look at it There are a few other members that may be my age or younger. I guess what it comes down to is, I know there are a lot of folks my age In a sense, in comprehending the moral obligation Now you'll see more of our generation and moving our culture just in different pathways, I think. Then on the flip side, within our education and how they view us, Hawaii is a cool place and get their thrills [Hawaiian spoken audio] Why I'm doing what I'm doing here today, We've always said that Today is God's time when we'll put In this very spot, 13 years ago, and we asked God to help us and the rest, our prime minister Everybody was waiting for us This is when we were going to put and we asked God right here help us. Why am I so elated today? In Hawaiian, we say the word Very happy. Because we're getting to put that the US had come took our people The problem we're having is that They're continuing to ignore and deny us. That's one of the most difficult things but the people on the payroll they say they gave us all back, to the money that they say they gave us This has been going on for 120 years. Hawaiian nationals know that or we're providing, During the Lawful Hawaiian Prime Minister Henry Noa For them, that simple ceremony in their lives. Because such land is situated in fact, it does not belong to anyone. It is barren land will build up their future. Demonstrate to them and that we decide Yes! Again, one, two, three, yes! Now we have, I guess, land, miles away from home, [Hawaiian spoken audio] Well, this one lot where a community can meet. You can come and have the kupuna Have the younger ones Learn how to make medicines, Learn language skills, any education as a whole, Then, tourists walking through, Anybody who wants to know One of the activities is poverty relief. Hawaii's image of prosperity and the most expensive state exists in stark contrast with the poverty The 2010 census with children under five years of age The postcard image of Hawaii of the inhabitants of the archipelago. What you see here around me that was established in 2009. This is adjacent to Waianae, The boat harbor is right here, What these people have been able to do which their presence seems to interfere with the tourists, and the government does not like This area here is called Pokai Bay. We're going into the bushes I heard that this is where a majority that got ousted from the beaches We've had a history It has been increasing in large numbers. I came here in 2010, I will not say homeless Hawaii is our home, We became houseless in 2009. As a greenhorn added, and that's what I took We hit recession back in 2009. Seven incomes, five lost, We gave up our home back then. We began living and we learned a lot. Then from there, we got swept in Most of these people from this camp going that way, Where this berry tree is, there's a hale lua in there, They're trying to clean up and stuff. A lot of us understand so a lot of us The people who come down and do the sweep is that the police department Basically, from what we understand was that the state but because of the lease, and do what is required by law, before they lease it. If they were to sweep us now, We don't know where to go, the next where? -Mauka, to the mountains. However, the denial of their rights, and the marginalization are not the only problems There is a threat that puts in jeopardy For the United States, with commercial and economic interests, these islands are part of a strategic On August 16th, 1898, four days the United States Army became Since then, and the Korean Conflict, Today, the Hawaiian islands represent for American Defense Forces In fact, the United States discovered of Hawaii long before its settlers Major General John Schofield His mission was to find General Schofield found for the growing United States Navy and that the land between the Waianae for ground forces. The American Spanish War Guam, and the Philippines, For the Americans, for its military campaign. Pearl Harbor, built in 1900, became the main During the Second World War, the Japanese Air Force I was nine years old when Japan came by That was a very memorable day I only found out about the destruction when I went to my grandparents' home where the planes came over and strafed. The United States military presence for the very existence of the archipelago. Hawaii is a military outpost. It's got every branch of the US military, and there are unknown amounts You've got nuclear submarines. You've got nuclear aircraft carriers. You've got nuclear silos Those missiles are directed There are literally billions of people that are based here in Hawaii. Literally, right here is Pacific Command, one of the major bulwarks The Pacific Command, in its own mind, This includes China, South America, Central America. This is a huge section that has nuclear missiles that are directed at them from Hawaii. If we were to enter into a Third World War there is absolutely no doubt whatsoever by America's enemies, Directed at Hawaii but it's a significant number. Rest assured, there's no question there'll be so many missiles sent here The importance is not only strategic. In reality, the economy on the United States military structure. According to the RAND Institute the military economy of Hawaii constitutes at least 18 percent more than $12 billion a year. The military-industrial complex here in Hawaii. Everybody thinks tourism is number one, but I believe that is actually at the top, That's what drives our economy, so it's very difficult about withdrawing because our economy The United States takes advantage to use them At the same time, the United States for the training of foreign troops. The American military presence to the environment of the islands. According to the Pacific Health Dialog, there are 768 contaminated sites This contamination is caused mainly the presence of mercury, lead, and radioactive fuels. In 2008, Colonel Howard Killian admitted but he argued that there was no danger Hawaiians are against because it goes against the desire They demand independence and also the withdrawal The military absolutely needs to go. For one thing, We made it a point to stay out because who has a problem From my personal perspective, ideally what I think it should be is that between the Chinese power Military buildup here is certainly by many people. It's almost become so normal though, how prominent the military is in Hawaii. Poverty, high living costs, are the direct result of the presence Despite all of that, those Hawaiians what was taken from their ancestors are not prepared to surrender. My efforts for being involved is I'm trying to get back The law that you see here today It's a big old Hollywood production, Hollywood does real well in fabricating I guess what it comes down to is, having been aware of the wrongs well over a century ago, part of it has to do with making sure I think you're going to get I think that as this movement grows, that I hope instills some hope of, I can participate in something It can be not in that space of anger, We've got the body in place. We're going to demonstrate and we're going to take and let them know what is rightfully ours, which is sovereign authority putting substance I see free, independent Hawaii because we're going to make The US military can leave and follow their rules