Over this past year, I had my wife, more lovingly of video games in the hope that I might learn who don't really play them. This informal experiment taught me a lot about players. Things that have become almost second nature She struggled with controls, especially when signals and gameplay mechanics, causing her than she needed to; and she often found herself they kept her from approaching challenges Watching her play through these titles got I started to pick up on small successes and hadn't noticed before. There are many tiny aspects of games that never pay any mind to, but for those without can drastically affect their approach. And after finishing that first little experiment, other games by watching her play them. So, on the recommendation of many of those along with my own personal curiosity of how I had her play Breath of the Wild. It's well-documented that this title supports player expression in a way few games do, and given that most of the games she played last time had introductions I wanted to see how a game like Breath of gaming experience. For this informal experiment, I had her play The Great Plateau provides a fair amount of systems and game mechanics of Breath of the immediate objective. While I considered having her use the pro she could have a few more tools at her disposal. She didn't really pay attention to anything I also opted to be a little more helpful this In the last one, I sat back as a silent observer with any of the games, and as you may know *Fist angrily slamming on a desk 3 times* &quot;I'm getting so annoyed.&quot; It went great For this one, I provided refreshers on game them, but I didn't tell her where she should All in all, this served as a way to keep things better engage with the game itself. So, this is how it went. Given that video games are still pretty new getting used to the controls. In high stress situations, she frequently cancelling out of actions, which soured a really cool. She also continued her ongoing battle against Whether it was running too close to a wall comfortable with moving and adjusting the seeing a handful of things that could have With that said, Breath of the Wild does include her a fair bit when trying to figure out the For example, whenever a button prompt comes one needs to be pressed, it shows where it This may seem like an insignificant detail, far less often. By showing her where a button was instead for her to find it by feel. Another thing that helped her a lot was the Regardless of whether or not enemies are around, to center behind Link, so she got in the habit in place. While it limited her ability to survey the under control. I assume that the designers didn't intend the way that she did, but it ended up making I love the idea that mechanics that seem to by players of varying skill levels to have She did continue to try to get used to controlling saying that it felt unintuitive. Like most other modern games, Breath of Wild's so to look to the right, the player presses Her instincts were the opposite though, and Inverted controls used to be the default setting still hold on to that preference, but my wife Obviously, it is possible that her brain is make more sense, but it got me wondering what I can't be 100% sure as to why, but my best to inverted scrolling on her phone as most Given her lack of experience with camera controls this knowledge over. As a side note, on the topic of cellphone there was a moment very early just before a text box read, Authenticating, and because on her phone, she waited for about 30 seconds doing anything and she could just press A &quot;Why is this taking...ohhhhh.&quot; Anyway, once she made the switch to inverted right analog stick more often and by the end over controlling the camera. I imagine she would have gotten better at but I do think that her being able to use along with there being so much open space figure things out. In general, Breath of the Wilds' open approach things that she struggled with while playing When it comes to games and honestly life in and destination in mind, so for the most part, path in order to explore the various nooks As an observer, this threw me off at first, first time, I constantly felt pulled to check Looking back though, a lot of the things that familiarity with other games. For example, seeing the remains of what looks is sure to intrigue longtime fans of the series, However, without the prior knowledge of these to her as something notable, and because the that was her focus. All in all, she did a pretty solid job navigating Breath of the Wild doesn't fill its map markers for main objective along with the has already found. This leads to a lot less clutter than the games, and it was clear to her where to go. The only time that she really struggled with shrines across the Great Plateau. She kept trying to pin towers and shrines This is a small issue, but I do think it is tutorial. It is hard to grasp the size of the Great for someone who is still trying to get used players having to go through a fair bit of Honestly, I wouldn't be surprised if this ran into as well. It probably would have been a better choice appear during this section as to cut down Despite this confusion, she did like being it gave her a better idea of what she would After setting the locations, she headed from travel to get places more efficiently. My favorite stretch of her playthrough though from the main path. Just after getting her first objective to got into a fight with bokoblin. All she had was a stick and it promptly broke. Panicked, she ran away...sort of. There are a lot of ways a players first encounter to set the player up to learn its core combat That loop being breaking a weapon on an enemy, getting hit and then mercilessly killing them Given that she chose to run away, she missed leaving her weaponless and far away from finding As she approached the tower, she saw a bokoblin killed by it, she went out searching for a I thought she might head back to the starting head into the forest instead because the only and she figured that'd be a good place to After searching for awhile she came across order to find a more reliable weapon. While heading through the forest she narrowly eventually came up to a small fire by a cliffside Just to see what would happen, she pushed bokoblins being splattered. &quot;That sounds, like, really violent...&quot; For good measure, she pushed down the other Knowing that the bokoblins she had seen so to the camp and see if they had dropped any. Once she got down there, she fought the single clumsily killed it, and then looted the camp. At this point, she felt confident and armed There were certainly easier and more efficient the approach she ended up taking led to an her feel resourceful and clever. I think my favorite thing about her little simply not noticing the weapons placed on Her mistake led to a major success where she more valuable than a woodcutting axe, and have even gone in this direction had she found And this really gets to the heart of Breath It lets players do-- Throughout the playthrough, my wife almost is largely in part to Breath of the Wild being to any given problem--even when that problem A great example of this happened when she She walked toward it and saw a pond in the Thinking she wouldn't have enough stamina for a different path. Given that this happened when she was still instead of looking to the left where she would in the direction the camera was facing. In most games, her trying to take a path like but because Link can climb almost everything, She scaled the broken wall, jumped over what only would have been a small fall, and climbed Instead of leading to a moment of frustration lead to one of discovery and excitement as While the intended path surely was to just way felt more rewarding for her. A similar thing happened when she was heading The intended path for this section seems to player to chop down a tree in order to create My wife walked up to this area, decided not spoken with him at the tower and assumed he This felt incredibly strange to me because pretty much every character I see when playing I've been conditioned to assume that they on how to progress through certain sections, her head from years of playing video games, So, instead she took out a nearby camp of of their camp to the cliff across. To be honest, I didn't know that this approach too far of a climb, and that the game was chopping mechanic. What's interesting is that the way she did than the one I assumed the game was trying I can't really think of another time outside down a tree to get somewhere, but I can think approaches to climb to a destination. So again, despite not noticing the path the own way that ended up helping her develop management. Ever since playing Breath of the Wild for the amount of solutions the game allows for It is a monumental achievement in terms of However, I have always viewed things from in the game and actively decides which approach After watching my wife play, I now appreciate By casting a wide net of options, it not only experiment with different strategies, but players will find at least one thing that challenges. Obviously, there are still some elements that on, but for the most part the Breath of the its clever and detailed world design, leads It also makes players feel like geniuses for empowering to players, especially to those games. It helped her build confidence, which no game had really done that for her before. &quot;I won!&quot; &quot;Nope.&quot; &quot;Oh.&quot; After she finished the Great Plateau, I asked game, and the first thing she noted was that The combination of the beautiful landscape made it a place she enjoyed exploring. And because of all of the space, she felt more intense moments. With the games she played for the last experiment, danger and tension, and while the onslaught exhausting in others. With Breath of the Wild, while danger was she engaged with potential conflicts. She could attack from a distance with a bow, out of reach, or simply just run away. Moving out of one dangerous situation did and I think having those breaks helped her playing. The majority of things that frustrated her really come up in Breath of the Wild. She didn't ask questions like "why isn't she tried worked. To be honest, I am surprised how friendly still providing a fair challenge for them. The design of Breath of the Wild's tutorial various systems of the game, and beyond that into situations that may be out of their depth, In my last video on this, I ended it by saying someone in your life who doesn't play games what you can to help them understand it. You should teach them how to read it. I still very much think this is true, and that part of why things went more smoothly some assistance. With that said, there is something deeply a game makes them feel like they are teaching And while we're on the topic of getting this video is sponsored by SkillShare. As you may know, Skillshare is an online community It provides thousands of classes on subjects to lifestyle--all things I need to be better I've personally been drawn to the courses to write now and a lot of my content focuses more about how others approach writing has Ultimately, Skillshare is a great resource or hone an existing one, and if you click 2 months of the service for free, giving you some new stuff. If you end up liking it, the annual subscription 10 dollars a month.Give it a shot and learn to learn for awhile but haven't actually Thanks again to Skillshare for sponsoring For all of you who have watched this far...hey. I appreciate you. Let me know if you'd like more stuff in live with play games, and also let me know to see covered. I don't know how many videos like this we'll curious to hear what you all think. With that, I hope you have a great day and/or I will see you in the next one.