- Today, I'm gonna show you The great thing about scones is once you have a great master recipe, you can use it to make So I'm gonna show you just You can change this up a It is so easy and everybody loves it. Also, stay tuned. I'm gonna show you my personal the filling, and an amazing glaze. Oh, it's so good. And I'm craving scones, We'll start with our dry ingredients. In a large mixing bowl combine some baking powder, and salt. Thoroughly whisk that together. You wanna make sure it's Whisking also helps to aerate the flour so you don't have to sift it. Next we'll add the butter. You'll need one stick of unsalted butter, and make sure it's cold right Dice up your butter into small cubes. You can also dice the butter ahead of time if you want to do some prep work, and just put it back in the fridge until you're ready to use it. Add your diced butter and lightly stir just to coat those butter Now we'll need to cut the And my favorite tool for doing this is a pastry cutter or pastry blender. I'll leave a link to this but if you don't have one, you to cut your butter into the flour. A pastry blender is inexpensive but will make this process Continue working the butter into the flour until you see pea-sized crumbs. (upbeat music) If you're adding a fruit to your scones, for example we're making this is the time when If you're adding fruit, make sure you thoroughly so you're not incorporating too much moisture into the dough. Gently fold just until Another tip to ensure is to keep that bowl refrigerated while you mix together I like to measure out my heavy then add the egg right into it, followed by my vanilla extract. And of course, we're using It's made with just two ingredients, and I will link to the Beat that together with a fork until it's really well-blended. (upbeat music) Now add all of your liquid ingredients into your dry ingredients. Now fold that together with a spatula. You wanna mix just until Make sure you're not When you see the dough is dump it out onto a clean work surface. Pull the dough together You might need to fold it once or twice just to make sure that you've The key is not to handle because you don't want that If your dough seems too sticky, you can sprinkle it with and if it seems too dry, you can drizzle with a Once you've formed your ball of dough, start shaping it into a disc. You want it to be about one inch thick and six to seven inches in diameter. You can cut these several different ways. I love to cut them into triangles, but you can also use a I find that cutting into triangles creates a little bit less Whatever you're using to cut your scones, make sure you cut straight without using a sawing motion. This will ensure a better rise. I'm using my bench scraper, to cut straight down through your scones. I'm cutting these into eight scones. Keep in mind if you wanna cut 12, they will be smaller and will bake faster. Now carefully transfer your scones to a parchment-lined baking sheet. You can use your bench to help you lift up the if they're sticking at all. And if you lose a crumble They'll still turn out delicious. Brush the tops of your scones with a little bit more heavy cream, or you can use milk if (upbeat music) Then sprinkle generously with horse sugar. The sugar gives these scones a golden glow and adds some sweetness, because keep in mind the scones aren't overly sweet by themselves. Now because scones rise I like to refrigerate these for at least 15 minutes before they bake. So while those are chilling in the fridge, I'm gonna preheat the oven You can also prechill if you want fresh scones in the morning. Bake your cold scones in at 400 degrees Fahrenheit I find that when I put it takes closer to 22 minutes. All right, these have They're golden brown at the You wanna let those cool before applying any kind of glaze. (upbeat music) You can use a simple vanilla glaze, or we're gonna do a lemon glaze because lemon and blueberry Add your powdered sugar to a small bowl, then add fresh lemon zest. The zest really makes this And make sure when you zest a lemon you're just getting and not the bitter white pith underneath. And yes, we added the Next we're gonna add some Start with a tablespoon and then add more to reach You don't want your glaze to get too thin or it'll just run off of your scone, and you also don't want it to be so thick that you can't drizzle it. We're gonna pull out some And thankfully, a glaze is easy to repair. If it gets too thick, just If it's too thin, add a (upbeat music) All right, that looks perfect. All that's left to do is and enjoy these fabulous scones. And you do wanna make sure that before you add the glaze, so they definitely have cooled down and they are ready to serve up, 'cause the glaze can get a little melty and just run off of them Although I do love to eat All right, here we go. And be generous with that glaze. There's a good amount in here. But don't skip that if you're making the blueberry scones. Oh, it's so good. It just adds something. It just makes it so vibrant and amazing. Okay, here we go. I like to just drizzle with a spoon. It's the easiest. Less dishes and things to mess up. Okay. The glaze is a little bit wet initially, but after like an hour or so, it'll harden and solidify on there so that you can store (upbeat music) And I can almost taste this glaze. My mouth is watering. It has begun. (laughs) All right, it is time for the taste test, and I'm definitely not gonna because (laughs) I All right, let's pick one. Which one will it be? Which one is the lucky scone? (laughs) All right, I think this one. This one has seemingly the most glaze and it is calling it my name. It has my number. Okay. All right. And just dive into it. Oh my goodness, look It's a little drippy. (laughs) Glaze all over the place. That's okay. That's okay. Okay, here we go. (upbeat music) Mm. Oh. Take a look at that texture. (laughs) Nailed it. This is the perfect scone recipe. It is just an amazing base. It is tender and soft on the inside, but also flaky and crisp on the outside, and it's got layers and Oh, this is such a treat. I love this as dessert, or this has been my breakfast right here just with a cup of tea or cup of coffee. It's wonderful. Yum. Oh, but this is so, so delicious. And you can really taste the little bit of lemon zest in the glaze, which lemon and blueberries, you know, it's just like an epic combination. This is my personal It is good. It's so good. And then the lemon in the glaze too, it just makes those There's something about baking blueberries that just makes them all like Woo, hoo, hoo! Okay. I'm excited. (laughs) Hello there. (laughs) You can put just about Try it with your favorite berry. I love to dice fresh It is so good to have layers of fresh strawberry in your scones. You can try all different kinds of glaze, or you can just leave as the best vanilla scones and enjoy them with coffee in the morning. They are such a treat. And they keep really well. You can eat them at room temperature, you can warm them up a Whatever floats your boat. I know you guys are gonna love this. Make these once and you'll make And let me know what is your And oh, also, dun, dun, dun. I'm gonna do this one handed 'cause I still have glaze all Our new book is out for order. I will leave a link in the notes. And it has a really good dessert section. Lots of brand new recipes that I haven't shared anywhere else. And let me know where you guys Plus, if you have any recipe I would love to hear from you. We'll see you in the next Okay, I'm gonna go eat this. I'm gonna go eat this all. Ah. (laughs)