Transcriber: Gustavo Rocha Hi everyone. Two year ago, my life changed forever. My wife Kelsey and I welcomed our daughter Lela Now, becoming a parent Your whole world changes over night. And all of your priorities So fast that it makes it really difficult Now, you also have to learn like, for example, (Laughter) This was new to me. This is an actual outfit, And even Lela knows So there is so much to learn and And to add to the craziness, we're entrepreneurs, So, Kelsey develops courses I'm an author. And so, I'm working from home, We have an infant that everything gets done And life is really, really busy. And a couple of weeks when the sleep deprivation like around week eight, I had this thought, that parents across the ages, everybody has had this thought, I am never going to have (Laughter) Somebody said it's true. It's not exactly true, but it feels really, really true And this was really because one of the things that I enjoy more than anything else Getting curious about something and fiddling around and And eventually becoming pretty good And without this free time, I didn't know how I was ever And so, I'm a big geek, I want to keep learning things, And so what I've decided to do was, go to the library, and look at what research says about how we learn and how we learn quickly. And I read a bunch of books, And tried to answer this question, how long does it take You know what I found? 10,000 hours! Anybody ever heard this? It takes 10,000 hours. if you want to be good at it, it's going to take 10,000 hours And I read this in book after book, And my mental experience No!! I don't have time! I am never going to be able Ever again. But that's not true. So, 10,000 hours, just to give you 10,000 hours is a full-time job That's a long time. And we've all had the experience and it didn't take us anywhere So, what's up? There's something What the research says and what we expect, they don't match up. And what I found, here's the wrinkle: The 10,000 hour rule came out of studies There's a professor his name is K. Anders Ericsson. He is the originator And where that came from is, world class musicians, All of this ultra competitive folks And he tried to figure out to get to the top And what he found is, the more time practicing the elements the more time you spend, And the folks at the tippy top put in around 10,000 hours of practice. Now, we were talking about the game Here's what happened: an author by the name wrote a book in 2007 called and the central piece of that book Practice a lot, practice well, you will reach the top of your field. So, the message, what Dr. Ericsson was actually saying is, it takes 10,000 hours to get in a very narrow subject, But here's what happened: immediately came out, stayed there for three solid months. All of a sudden the 10,000 hour rule And a society-wide game of telephone So this message, it takes 10,000 hours became, it takes 10,000 hours which became, it takes 10,000 hours to become which became, it takes 10,000 hours But that last statement, is not true. So, what the research actually says -- I spent a lot of time here in the cognitive psychology stacks And when you actually look you see over and over Now, researchers, something you do physically they like to study things 'Cause you can quantify that, right? So, they'll give research participants something that requires or something that requires and they'll time how long a participant And here's what this graph says, so when researchers gave participants 'cause it was new With a little bit of practice, And that early part of practice People get good at things Now, what's interesting to note is that, for skills that we want to learn we don't care so much about time, We just care about how good we are, So if we relabel performance time the graph flips, and you get this is the learning curve. And the story of the learning curve you're grossly incompetent (Laughter) With a little bit of practice, So that early level of improvement And then at a certain point and the subsequent games they take more time to get. Now, my question is, How long does it take and being grossly incompetent to being reasonably good? In hopefully, as short a period of time So, how long does that take? Here's what my research says: 20 hours. That's it. about any skill that you can think of. Want to learn a language? Want to learn how to juggle (Laughter) If you put 20 hours of focused you will be astounded. Astounded at how good you are. 20 hours is doable, that's about 45 minutes a day Even skipping a couple days, 20 hours isn't that hard to accumulate. Now, there's a method to doing this. Because it's not like you can just start and expect these massive improvements. There's a way to practice intelligently. There's a way to practice efficiently, that will make sure that you invest in the most effective way And here's the method, The first is to deconstruct the skill. Decide exactly what you want and then look into the skill Most of the things are actually big bundles of skills The more you can break apart the skill, the more you're able to decide, what are the parts of this skill get to what I want? And then you can practice those first. And if you practice you'll be able to improve in the least amount of time possible. The second is, learn enough So, get three to five resources Could be book, could be DVDs, But don't use those as a way I know I do this, right? Get like 20 books about the topic, &quot;I'm going to start learning when I complete these 20 books&quot;. No. That's procrastination. What you want to do that you can actually practice and self correct or self edit So the learning becomes at noticing and then doing something The third is to remove barriers Distractions, television, internet. All of these things of you actually sitting down And the more you're able to use to remove the distractions that the more likely you are to actually And the fourth is to practice Now, most skills have what I call You know, the grossly-incompetent- That's really, really frustrating. And feeling stupid is a barrier to us So, by pre-committing to practicing for at least 20 hours, you will be able to overcome and stick with the practice long enough That's it! It's not rocket science. Four very simple steps that Now, this is easy to talk but it's more fun to talk about So one of the things that I've wanted is play the ukulele. Has anybody seen where he plays the ukulele he's like a ukulele god. It's amazing. I saw it, I was like, It's such a neat instrument. And so I decided I wanted to put 20 hours and see where it got. And so the first thing in order to practice, So, I got an ukulele and (Laughter) Thank you sir. It's not just an ukulele, Yeah. So, the first couple hours are just You have to get the tools You have to make sure My ukulele didn't come I had to figure out Like, that's kind of important, right? And learning how to tune, that all of the things in order to start practicing Now, one of the things when I was was I looked in online databases And they say, okay, ukuleles, you can so you can play chords, that's cool, you are accompanying yourself, And when I started looking at songs, I had an ukulele chord book Looking at this and But when you look at the actual songs, you see the same chords As it turns out, playing the ukulele There's a very small set of things and techniques that you'll use And in most songs and that's it, that's the song. You don't have to know hundreds, So, while I was doing my research, I found a wonderful little medley by a band called Axis of Awesome. -- Somebody knows it. -- And what Axis of Awesome says or you can play pretty much if you know four chords, and those chords are G, D, Em and C. Four chords pump out So I thought, this is cool! I would like to play So, that was the first song and I would like to actually (Applause) (Music) (Singing) living in a lonely world, she took the midnight train I heard that you settled down, that you found a girl, that you're married now. Every night in my dreams I see you, I feel you, that is how I know you go on. I won't hesitate no more, no more. 'Cause you were amazing, If I could, then I would, Can you feel the love tonight. I can't live with or without you. When I find myself -- When I find myself in times of trouble, Sometimes I feel like I don't have partner. Yeah mama, this surely is a dream. I come from a land down under. Once a jolly swagman Hey, I just met you, and this is crazy, but here's my number, so call me Hey sexy lady, op, op, op, op, It's time to say goodbye. Closing time, every new beginning (Singing and music ends) Thank you, thank you. I love that song. And I have a secret to share with you. So, by playing that song for you, I just hit my twentieth hour (Applause) And so it's amazing, pretty much what do you want to do. The major barrier to learn it's not the process of you learning The major barrier's emotional. Feeling stupid doesn't feel good, in the beginning of learning you feel really stupid. So the major barrier's not intellectual, But put 20 hours into anything. It doesn't matter. Do you want to learn a language? Want to learn how to draw? What turns you on? Go out and do that thing. Have fun. (Applause)