Thank you very much. Well, I would like (Laughter) Men who sleep five hours a night have significantly smaller testicles (Laughter) In addition, men who routinely sleep will have a level of testosterone which is that of someone So a lack of sleep in terms of that critical And we see equivalent impairments caused by a lack of sleep. This is the best news (Laughter) From this point, it may only get worse. Not only will I tell you that happen when you get sleep, but the alarmingly bad things both for your brain and for your body. Let me start with the brain and the functions of learning and memory, because what we've discovered is that you need sleep after learning to essentially hit the save button so that you don't forget. But recently, we discovered to actually prepare your brain, almost like a dry sponge ready to initially soak up And without sleep, essentially become and you can't absorb new memories. So let me show you the data. Here in this study, we decided that pulling the all-nighter So we took a group of individuals and we assigned them a sleep group Now the sleep group, they're going to get but the deprivation group, in the laboratory, under full supervision. There's no naps or caffeine, by the way, And then the next day, we're going to place those participants and we're going to have them as we're taking snapshots And then we're going to test them to see how effective And that's what you're looking at And when you put what you find is a quite significant, in the ability of the brain I think this should be concerning, considering what we know in our education populations right now. In fact, to put that in context, it would be the difference versus failing it miserably -- 40 percent. And we've gone on to discover to produce these types And there's a structure that sits on the left and the right side And you can think of the hippocampus almost like the informational It's very good at receiving and then holding on to them. And when you look at this structure in those people who'd had we saw lots of healthy Yet in those people we actually couldn't find So it's almost as though sleep deprivation and any new incoming files -- You couldn't effectively So that's the bad that can happen but let me just come back Do you remember those folks Well, we can ask What is it about the physiological when you do get it that restores and enhances each and every day? And by placing electrodes what we've discovered that happen during that have riding on top of them these spectacular bursts that we call sleep spindles. And it's the combined quality that acts like a file-transfer shifting memories from a short-term to a more permanent long-term and therefore protecting them, And it is important that we understand what during sleep actually transacts because there are real medical And let me just tell you about one area that we've moved this work which is the context of aging Because it's of course no secret our learning and memory abilities But what we've also discovered is that a physiological signature of aging especially that deep quality of sleep And only last year, that these two things, they are significantly interrelated. And it suggests is an underappreciated factor that is contributing in aging, and most recently in Alzheimer's disease as well. Now, I know this is remarkably It's in the mail. It's coming at you. But there's a potential Unlike many of the other factors for example changes that's fiendishly difficult to treat. But that sleep is a missing piece of aging and Alzheimer's is exciting because we may be able And one way that we are is not by using Unfortunately, they are blunt instruments Instead, we're actually developing It's called direct current You insert a small amount so small you typically don't feel it, but it has a measurable impact. Now if you apply this stimulation as if you're sort of singing in time not only can you amplify but in doing so, we can almost that you get from sleep. The question now this same affordable, into older adults and those with dementia. Can we restore back and in doing so, can we salvage and memory function? That is my real hope now. That's one of our moon-shot So that's an example but sleep is just We've already spoken about sleep loss Or I could tell you about sleep loss and that all it takes is one hour. Because there is a global experiment across 70 countries twice a year, and it's called daylight saving time. Now, in the spring, we see a subsequent 24-percent increase In the autumn, we see a 21-percent Isn't that incredible? And you see exactly the same profile even suicide rates. But as a deeper dive, sleep loss and your immune system. And here, I'll introduce these delightful They are called natural killer cells, and you can think of natural killer cells of your immune system. They are very good at identifying and eliminating them. In fact, what they're doing here So what you wish for at all times, and tragically, that's what you don't have So here in this experiment, you're not going to have your sleep you're simply going to have your sleep for one single night, and then we're going to look to see in immune cell activity that you suffer. And it's not small -- it's not 10 percent, it's not 20 percent. There was a 70-percent drop That's a concerning state and you can perhaps understand significant links between and your risk for the development Currently, that list includes cancer of the prostate In fact, the link between a lack of sleep that the World Health Organization has classified any form as a probable carcinogen, because of a disruption So you may have heard of that old maxim that you can sleep when you're dead. Well, I'm being quite serious now -- it is mortally unwise advice. We know this from epidemiological studies There's a simple truth: the shorter your sleep, Short sleep predicts all-cause mortality. And if increasing your risk or even Alzheimer's disease were not sufficiently disquieting, we have since discovered the very fabric of biological life itself, your DNA genetic code. So here in this study, and they limited them for one week, and then they measured the change relative to when those same individuals were getting a full eight hours And there were two critical findings. First, a sizable and significant 711 genes were distorted in their activity, caused by a lack of sleep. The second result were actually increased in their activity. The other half were decreased. Now those genes that were switched off were genes associated so once again, you can see In contrast, those genes or increased by way of a lack of sleep, were genes associated genes associated with long-term and genes associated with stress, and, as a consequence, There is simply no aspect of your wellness that can retreat at the sign and get away unscathed. It's rather like a broken Sleep loss will leak down of your physiology, even tampering with that spells out And at this point, you may be thinking, &quot;Oh my goodness, What are you tips for good sleep?&quot; Well, beyond avoiding of alcohol and caffeine on sleep, and if you're struggling avoiding naps during the day, I have two pieces of advice for you. The first is regularity. Go to bed at the same time, no matter whether Regularity is king, and it will anchor your sleep and improve the quantity The second is keep it cool. Your body needs to drop by about two to three degrees and then to stay asleep, and it's the reason to fall asleep in a room that's too cold than too hot. So aim for a bedroom temperature or about 18 degrees Celsius. That's going to be optimal And then finally, what is the mission-critical Well, I think it may be this: sleep, unfortunately, Sleep is a nonnegotiable It is your life-support system, and it is Mother Nature's And the decimation of sleep is having a catastrophic impact even the safety and the education It's a silent sleep loss epidemic, and it's fast becoming one of the greatest that we face in the 21st century. I believe it is now time for us to a full night of sleep, and without embarrassment or that unfortunate stigma of laziness. And in doing so, we can be reunited the Swiss Army knife And with that soapbox rant over, I will simply say, good night, good luck, and above all ... I do hope you sleep well. Thank you very much indeed. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you so much. David Biello: No, no, no. Good job not running away, though. So that was terrifying. Matt Walker: You're welcome. Since we can't catch up on sleep, What do we do when we're, like, or doing shift work or whatever else? MW: So you're right, Sleep is not like the bank. You can't accumulate a debt and then hope to pay it off I should also note the reason and that our health first, it's because human beings that deliberately deprive for no apparent reason. DB: Because we're smart. MW: And I make that point throughout the course of evolution, has never had to face the challenge So she's never developed a safety net, and that's why when you undersleep, things just sort of implode so quickly, So you just have to prioritize. DB: OK, but tossing and turning in bed, what do I do? MW: So if you are staying in bed you should get out of bed and do something different. The reason is because your brain with the place of wakefulness, and you need to break that association. So only return to bed when you are sleepy, and that way you will relearn which is your bed is the place of sleep. So the analogy would be, you'd never sit at the dinner table, so why would you lie in bed, DB: Well, thank you for that wake-up call. Great job, Matt. MW: You're very welcome.