I can't believe he's doing this. He's going to go up of charging knights on his own? You're gonna die. Hello, everyone. My name I teach ancient history at and I'm back now to from movies and TV and This is 13 years after and we're still just like, &quot;No, that's how you do an invasion.&quot; This is a modern landing to look vaguely medieval-ish. This actually happened, in the sense that a French army landed on English soil during the period of the Barons' revolt. But it wouldn't have landed which are specifically designed to support a modern amphibious landing. And, in fact, historically, If the enemy's landing there's only one way up the cliffs. Why would you go down You just block off that ramp and watch them starve to death or go home. It's your choice, really. You don't have to fight. It's better for everybody. These archers have a They're firing from the cliff tops, which are hundreds of meters away, and they're firing up into the air as well to get maximum range, which, yes, it makes but it also means that when they land, they're basically just falling. They have no force. So if you hold your shield up, they're just going to ping Now, these guys, again, are doing everything they You see a bunch of horsemen and instead of bundling together, you form a sort of loose line that the horses can and you kneel down for no apparent reason. No. This is where you You form shields, you get as You stick your spears out. The horses can't touch you. They don't want to get that they can't get through, so they're not going to charge in. And then you have the range advantage, 'cause you have a spear and the guy on the horse So you're just going to poke them. I would give it a 3 out of 10. The landing craft are I mean, movies always It's going to be very spectacular. But obviously this would've especially when you're You're not going to set it on fire. Defenses are often built to try and pin the enemy in place. You surround them from the walls, you can fire down at them. Now, this town obviously which makes it more difficult. Blockading the enemy, that's when they're at your mercy. They did sort of portray that pretty well. Ambushing with archers is You try to hide these when the enemy's most blocked and confused and doesn't know where they're going. But we shouldn't overestimate Unless you have a lot of archers, the enemy's soon going enough organization to and then your arrows are not Unless you have overwhelming numbers. You wouldn't necessarily that had no fortifications, yeah, you would get up on the roof. The idea that the orcs can and kill some of them, because the villagers are going to be completely in the dark. The light is down there, As far as the orcs can tell, the arrows are coming from the night. You'd do some of these things, trying to block their way, trying to hit them when they're confused or when they're distracted. We'd give this maybe a 4 out of 10. The really cool thing about this scene is they have a ditch. And 'cause they have to go into and it means that the wall You can see this ditch forming a part of an integrated defensive system. The fighting for the ladders and trying to make your way onto the walls and all of that, broadly There would be a lot of engineering. There would be a lot of times in history when siege warfare is technological innovation And you have famous instances, like when the Romans attacked this Greek city of Syracuse in Sicily. Archimedes is one of the defenders, and he supposedly came up with They were so new and that the Romans supposedly became so afraid of these devices that if they just saw a bit of they would run away that Archimedes had some new So this idea of using strange machines in the defense of a city is historical. It's just that these particular things that they've come up with here, they literally don't do anything that a thrown rock couldn't do. These balls just make no sense. Well, the marble chutes, and when you know where the balls come out, If you get hit by these balls, you have no one to blame but yourself. It has some things right. You gotta give points for a good ditch. I give it a 5 out of 10. Soldier: We were ordered by There is a siege of Limoges, which they've turned into for some inexplicable reason. You can see the city This was a complete English victory. They just overcame a small and then murdered everyone. But there was no battle outside the walls or anything like that. So, they're trying to tempt by killing hostages in France with them. Now in the Hundred Years' War, for the English to as a way to win. So several of their most famous victories, at Crecy, Poitiers, the French knights charged and this caused chaos. They charged into prepared positions, they charged into disadvantageous terrain, all these kinds of things. So the English clearly thought of this as a great way to win, and I think they were just into the story of the siege of Limoges, but it doesn't belong there. That one guy who just runs out, like, what are you going to do? Like, my guy, don't. He's going to go up of charging knights on his own? You're gonna die. They're saying at the beginning, &quot;We have orders to defend this bridge.&quot; Strategically senseless, because you can just ford the river. So if they're trying to across the river, which is when you're defending a bridge, the English can just walk across. They don't form a formation. They don't have archer support. They don't seem to have They're all going to die, I'm afraid. Shall we give it a 2 out of 10, because they've got the date right? These are supposed to be these Ulfhednar. Sometimes The idea that there who work themselves up into a frenzy and then go into battle basically naked with a complete disregard But actually, when you read the sources about these warriors, they're in the sense of their equipment. They wear shields, clothes, armor, and they go into battle fighting as a unit that behaves, as far as It's just very much later sources, centuries after these guys were around, start embellishing this story. As far as we know, that never happened. The spear throwing is actually something that's very realistic. They would throw their spears in battle, but then, of course, they wearing armor, helmets for the most part. You can climb a basic fortification. If it's a simple fort made you can either throw or climb it even by hand, and this does sometimes happen. If the enemy's not very prepared for you, you might be able to sneak in that way. But if it's defended at all, If these defenders had any sense at all, they would be forming a formation in the streets of this little town, and these invaders would have to try and break that formation, which they don't seem They don't have any armor. They just have their little axes. Well, in close combat against the spear, you're going to be at a Viking raids were obviously endemic in Europe in this Vikings would target obviously It's just not a very profitable to try and attack a town that's defended. So you'd go after isolated perhaps settlements that didn't have any kind of wall or palisade even, so that you could actually just walk in and take what you wanted. In terms of the actual this is 3 out of 10. Actually, that marching scene of the fact that marching order You wouldn't march in very tight order, because you'd just get When they would be marching, there might be as much as So they're showing that really well. Soldier: And this is the Roman army amid It's always very tempting, I think, for movie makers to have either sketch it out in the sand or to have them pore over Maps and the kind of top-down that we are used to just You would try and find a high point to overlook the battlefield, maybe, so that you would have the overview. But generally speaking, you wouldn't rely on this to understand the space. Soldier: When we cut off the head, the tail won't notice, and we hack it to bits. Fundamentally, you don't need to split up this army even further. And because they're strung they can't support each other anyway. The front of this column is going to be miles away from the back of it. You're already in a position where you can essentially attack them with impunity. You don't have to do This is the battle of So, this is a real event in were destroyed by an They were essentially drawn into a forest where they did not know the paths and they did not know the way, and then they were And so fighting them when great tactic. In the accounts of battle that we have, it was raining, so good in the middle of this field. There was a huge downpour, because it made the ground It ruined their visibility. They weren't able to operate well because it was raining all the time. They're using it to try and But, again, there's no point. If you're coming at them from all sides, you're pushing them back and the closer they get together, the harder it'll be for them to maneuver, to fight, to get organized. That's how you beat them. So making big lines of fire in between to separate them actually because then they have nowhere to go but directly into you, and they're going to fight all the harder. So this is actually a terrible idea, but obviously it looks so that's what we're going with. I think it deserves an 8 out of 10. Why not either let the archers handle it or send out a formation of guys? Let him try and break a with only a little sword. Like, he's not gonna have a good time. Obviously, every time he has That's when he would get shot, and he has to do that several which just happens to be there. He's immensely lucky. He's basically wearing sort Also, I'm begging movie with the orders to the archers. This never happened. The &quot;nock, draw, loose,&quot; Don't let anyone convince you otherwise. The Crabfeeder's men, the men in yellow, they actually have these which is a very particular style of combat where they have these curved swords and these very small shields. Usually they would've been made of metal, and you can actually use them both to guard yourself and to attack. So they have a very that you don't see in In terms of the fighting, it's just chaos. Everybody's just running one at a time, hacking It's very exciting to watch, but this is not a battle, 2 out of 10. Soldier: Tighten the circle! These kind of protective though you do get Romans But having them be in a single line makes it much too vulnerable. If even one of these men dies, The enemy will be inside, and You have to make that into Otherwise, it's completely useless. They just throw themselves at these Romans like a zombie horde or something. It's kind of sad to see of northwest European There's this tendency to turn into these wild shirtless barbarians, because all the way back to essentially Greek and Roman times, we have this stereotype that people from the forests of Europe are these sort of barely They knew how to equip themselves, and wealthy warriors in would've been just as well equipped as the Romans in this scene. So, they are confusing two things. They're confusing chariots which are different kinds Chariots were still in sort of warlords in But these would be missile platforms. So on those chariots, you or throwing javelins, for instance. You wouldn't be engaging because that would be a terrible These men would be heavily armored, not like you're seeing in this fragment. They would be carrying They would be carrying helmets. Some centuries before this, there had been an attempt to create this kind of armored battering ram in the form of the scythed chariot. So you attach scythe blades to in order to try and send them at enemy formations to break them up. This is something that we first But it never works very well. It's very easy to either or dispatch the riders and then essentially 4 out of 10. Fire on my command. Ready. Arrow loops are a way to make sure that you can project missiles from the wall while you are under cover. So enemies will find it into those loops. That's why they always have They will let you cover a These guys have been here, for 10,000 years, defending this gap. I don't know what they did. Like, they built the most for about a week, and then they, I guess, did crossword puzzles. This is incredibly primitive, in terms of what it's trying to achieve as a defensive fortification. It's just a single wall. There's nothing you can breaking in, and getting to where you are. Make sure the walls have bastions so that you can cover so that you can defend that actually reaches you. The actual scene they Absolutely worthless. Always looking for the crossbowmen, There's, like, one guy, outside the walls who has a crossbow. But these should be quite The French's answer to the longbow is to have these armored They treasure them a lot, and they spend a lot of time and some of the wealthiest city dwellers would equip themselves as You also have pavises, which are basically great standing shields that are used as cover mostly It's basically just a door and you set down in front of you so that arrows will get stuck So they're using those to but then they stand way behind Like, why did you bother then? No one's wearing helmets, You can always say, like, &quot;Oh, we want to see the actors' faces.&quot; There are arrows flying everywhere. You want to protect your head. Soldier: Light! Recede! The gunpowder use is so strange. It was known in Europe at this time, and, again, we're talking about a siege, so maybe they were incentivized Guns aren't known yet in this period. The earliest gunpowder weapons, these cannon that shoot, again, like, big arrow-shaped projectiles, occur several decades later. So I have no idea what but I guess it's because, so let's use gunpowder because then we can show and we always want that.&quot; It has nothing to do with history. This kind of weapon isn't real, and in fact this fight didn't happen. 2 out of 10. My favorite depiction of is the scene of the battle which is not a very good is depicted in a way that makes sense, where you can see the formations You can see each unit So that, I feel, is a a way that you can actually see what this might have looked like. Thanks very much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, why