Good afternoon, guys. One of the most expensive with some of the wealthiest people. So today we're gonna go up Up into the richest jazz You too, take care. [car door opens] Here we are, edge of Central Park, 5th Ave. and Upper East Side, that's the So that runs basically 59th to 96th. So the Upper East Side This was the place for the Kennedys the Rockefellers the Roosevelts Carnegies. All these big names in American history. They all had a place up on these streets. And now I believe its still a place where if you have the big money in New York, Now there are some other very wealthy Tribecca Brooklyn Heights but if you want to concentrate on the this is it. Guggenheim Museum. Built by Frank Lloyd Wright in 1959. Just way ahead of his time. It's a cylindrical building. It was conceived as the temple of the spirit. It's just got a beautiful flow to it. Very unique. I love this type of architecture where if it would look contemporary but it was 1959. Was this Andrew Carnegie's home? -He lived here? -Oh, okay. You ever take a tour of it? -No, is it open now or is it closed? -It looks closed from here. -Yeah. -And they haven't opened the garden. All right, guys. Andrew Carnegie's home. I believe it was his home or one of his and Andrew Carnegie, massive steel tycoon. Really, a lot of his businesses were behind here in America. He gave away $350 million back in his time which is $65 billion This isn't his only residence. He owned a lot of real estate. Okay, what do we got up here? We're just going right along the park. 5th Ave, take a right. Russian flag in the background. Must be the Russian Consulate. They picked the nice real estate obviously. Beautiful detail here as you can see. What has happened in You can see those classic Bars on the windows. Hello. How are you doing? I'm doing well, you? I'm making a video This was an armory? -This was an armory. -Okay. -So the landmarks commission said, but you have to keep the facade.&quot; -Okay. -So this is the facade of the armory. I think there's a plaque over there. -Behind there is Hunter Which is a public school. This is an historic district... -Okay. And it's called Carnegie Hill. Those of us who bought apartments here 30, 40 years ago, I don't know what's going It's a mess. We're bankrupt. The state's bankrupt, the city is bankrupt. -How is your feel about the city right now? -Well, I think we're in better shape than -Than the West? -Yeah, and then the South... -Yeah. -But COVID is starting to increase here So I don't know. I love it. Always have, always will. Take care. Okay, guys we have I think it's called Carnegie tower. This is where Anthony Bourdain lived. It's not the most beautiful building from but I'm sure it's quite sweet inside. I believe his place sold for $3.2 million. Let's see if we can get Carnegie Hill, this is the nicest Roughly $350,000 is Carnegie Hill Tower, the door is open. Door is open. Hey guys. Did you guys know Bourdain? How was he? Nice guy. &lt;Very nice, yeah. He lived here for a long time, right? -Few years. This is a very cool thing is you can be in the wealthiest and there's no security out front. You can just walk in the building. Those places are very expensive. Every one in the multi-millions I'm sure. So my wife mentioned this to me: She really brought it to my attention. Wealth in America is sort of shown. People are proud of it. Not everything is behind fences, Yeah, there's plenty of that stuff, right? But there's a lot that's not and we'll see that in this neighborhood. There's a lot that anyone can walk these That's quite cool if you have that much wealth it's behind a gate. It's behind security. You'll never be near it, let's say. And she was saying, because while you might You can observe, right? And you can somewhat interact like I And I think that's unique. I never noticed this about the states. I actually learn about America Through her eyes. That's cool in these negativity about America. It's nice to observe these things. We live abroad. So coming back into it you see things a different way. It's the type of neighborhood... You don't see these in Flower shop. Pumpkins, Halloween's coming. They've set them up. and at night time I think but only 25% inside. For the business owners it's gotta be You can see another one and they put a lot of money into these. That's done quite well with the Some are lucky, they They've done outdoor Very cute setup. Beautiful. I like that shot right there. So this one right here. I was just talking to this lady in the... Pushing the baby carriage. She said that would So that, I guess much more than $5 million. [car horn honks] She just moved to the Very safe, excellent schools. You can see the schools here. But again, this is very cool. Once this goes away in America then America loses a lot So you have probably some of the open, outside of their There are no security guards around. There are no gates. Even the fire hydrant is stylish and expensive looking. So a lot of these places I think that's sort of that The very classy door man dressed up well and very much decorated hallways, doorways. No bars on the windows. I mean that's nice. You guys make it look beautiful. Take care, where's the -Nicest street? -Yeah in Carnegie Hill area. -It's all over in all honesty. It's just a very nice area, man. -Gotcha, take care. Here we have a synagogue. So in the Upper East I gotta fact check myself but I believe So huge Jewish population. And the Asian population is increasing. Very nice markets in this part of the city. Fresh cut fruit. Fresh vegetables. Nice selection. Nice market you have. This is what it is, every Quiet. Not much action. Like it's the antithesis South Bronx... Nah, I don't want to live there but that place is alive. For sure. Even the trash looks Oh, that's recycling. Oh, there's some trash. Trash looks clean in the Upper East Side. Here on the east side looking out across the East River at Queens back down lower Manhattan and nice little park area. This is Roosevelt Island. There are many islands in this city. Some are uninhabited. Some are inhabited. The Upper East Side is quite big and just to give you a scale of the city it's just a small part of Manhattan. Which is quite large. You have Brooklyn, which is massive. Queens, massive. The Bronx. Staten Island, I've never been there. But it's just you honestly could This might be the capital of the mini-dog. The Upper East Side. We have what looks to be a mini-dog park. [dogs barking] [small dogs yipping] I asked for the smartest and I guess it's the Papillon. I really hope it is. Here we go, some of that New Everyone sort of mixed Gotta love this. This is a Sukkah. I believe that's a Sukkah, right? Are you Jewish? No, but I know about your culture. It's very cool. I really respect it. -Take a video in there -Can I? -Can we go in? Oh cool, and so the main purpose from the external world. You sleep out here, you pray in here? -That's not really the purpose. jazz The number on the right, The $5.50 is for the taxi. Thank you. That's how much New York to ride around in a cab. Unbelievable, almost the [people chattering] Oh, look who I found. It's my wife and you look so pleasant. [kisses] Upper East Side. Midtown Manhattan. Sun setting. Central Park. That about wraps it up, guys. Upper East Side. Most expensive Until the next one, take care. jazz