Hello everybody, Tom Ellsworth here, and welcome This week it's the making of Travis Kalanick We're going to find out what made Uber co-founder today. More importantly, the highly successful leader And along the way, we're going to look at In a later case study, we're going to dive at what they did to overcome controversies, their success, and how a great company recovers But for today, let's dive in to what made that formed him into the CEO we know today. There's going to be three points that we're very helpful and interesting to everyone. One is, most great CEOs don't come out of They learn lessons and they acquired skills Today's core points are the following three #1: Most great CEOs don't come out of nowhere. They had some sort of learnings or experience There are very few Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerbergs and then went forward. And in the case of Zuckerberg and Gates, they Other CEOs don't have it that way. They learn things along the way. And that's point one. Most great CEOs don't come out of nowhere. Point 2. When you're building a company, assemble a You can't do it yourself. But, keep yourself in the vein of the Lean Eric Ries. Keep it lean, but get a great team of core genius that moves your company forward. And point #3: The moment you know what you've And if you have a great core team, that's Because you can't do it alone. So those are the core points. And now let's dive in to the life of Travis his background and the founding of Uber. Travis turned 40 this year. He was born in 1976, in Los Angeles, California. He grew up in the valley as they call it, Northridge is famous for in 1994, there was And that's the area where he grew up. After getting out of high school in the valley, degree path. That was his major. That's what he was studying. So as you can see, this is a very bright guy pure geek. A lot of good geek that goes into that. Some of the greatest companies in the world who are just taking that geekdom into stardom, Travis was no different. But apparently he had a little bit of an itch Because at the age of 22, in 1998, he dropped Something that I happen to think is actually You need to get a degree to learn things like believe that everyone should go to college. But anyway, that's for another story and another But in this case, he drops out and he joins And Scour was a peer-to-peer search engine Now for those of you that remember, there's peer-to-peer audio, and allowed people to Or one person paid over here, and a thousand And meanwhile the artists and record companies Yeah, that was peer-to-peer. And Travis was working in a company called Now it had some interesting first investment, players. One of those was Michael Ovits, former president CAA, Creative Artists Agency. And, Ron Burkle of Yucaipa companies, a massive So here he is dropping out of UCLA, joining very big players. Well, in October of 2000, if you go back and peer-to-peer companies were getting sued. And, that's what happened. Scour was sued by the Motion Picture Association America and about 30 other plaintiffs for Okay, if you're sued for $250 billion, it's And let me tell you why. If someone sues you or me for a million dollars, They could take everything we have from us. But if they're suing us for $250 billion, We don't have that. You can sue me for that, you could sue me I haven't got it. So good luck with that. And what really happened is it forced the So they filed chapter 11 bankruptcy, after the gross domestic product of Nicaragua, you But then, undaunted, Travis creates Red Swoosh. It was also a peer-to-peer file sharing company, And you should stay tuned because Napster guys at Napster, the peer-to-peer community So we're going to see a relationship here, Which is really important. Even in the midst of failure, sometimes relationships So don't make enemies. Move on. Because you never know who can come back and So anyway, this runs for about five, six years, Well he's 30 years old now, and he sells a So he experienced dropping out of school, bankrupt, and starting a company that doesn't It only sells for something around $20 million. And funny thing is he said it was kind of Kalanick did an interview with Fast Company suing him over here, became customers of Red So he thought it was kind of ironic and he But anyway, he sells it, so he's had a successful And he's at a web technology conference and about, you know, maybe ordering a black car, or out to dinner or something maybe that could And so the concept is born that would become And so Uber's founded in March 2009, as a It was a black car service and Travis was he called himself a mega adviser and chief He wasn't the CEO as of yet. In 2010, in early 2010, a guy named Ryan Graves the first CEO. So they're working on this, putting it together. And in June 2010, Uber launches in San Francisco. And at the time, an Uber black car cost like But, guess what? You could get it really quick, and you could how long it would take. So if we think back, it's a Blue Ocean strategy that, some very interesting things happened. What did they do with Uber? They added ease of use with technology. They reduced the hassle of waiting and hailing Is that guy available? Is that guy available? Is that guy available? We've all been there. They also increased the availability of rides. Because you could see cabs that weren't necessarily You could see cars now with the Uber app that You could signal them to come to you. So they increased the availability of rides, that we hate about cabs is the stinky car You don't ride in cabs because you want to. We've always ridden in cabs because we had And we ignored the thoughts of whatever has in the back seat or left in the back seat. The whole smelly cab experience we set aside. And guess what? All of those four factors is pure Blue Ocean. So here comes Uber, a Blue Ocean in getting go. So there you have 2010. Well in October of 2010, they raised 1.25 They got it from first round capital. A guy named Chris Sacca who was a friend of Google, he had also been a guest on the Shark So he had been around with some early stage, investor, Napster co-founder, Shawn Fanning, becomes an early seed investor in Uber. What goes around comes around. Sometimes people that you worked with over So, there it is, December 2010, after this and Ryan Graves who was a CEO, he decided And so there you have it in 2010, he becomes So take a look at what he's learned in these CEO of Uber. If you didn't know his history, you would to start a company. There was no luck here. This was a 12-year education. He got a master's degree in experience, failure, headaches that go along with it. That's what led to the creation of Travis comes to a close. Well things were off and running and once and you got a good team in place, and a capable It's time for your series A financing, your And they raised $11 million in a round that value, and $11 million into the company invested. And Bill Gurley, the legendary VC Bill Gurley But Bill Gurley was a guy that invested in part of, Jamdat Mobile. He was in our series D, but he was a guy that been on the forefront of some real innovative And nonetheless, there he is, series A, $60 Well, in May of 2011, just a couple of months City. That was a little controversial, because New they launched. Today it's one of their biggest markets. And what's interesting, five years later, April 2015 to April 2016, Uber averaged 170,000 So five years later, and all that controversy but one of their most successful markets. Now, there's also an interesting thing that There was a conference, in the 4th quarter about failure. And you know who spoke? Travis Kalanick. And you know what he said? He said, the 10 years before Uber was a case And he openly talked about all the things experience that made him who he is today. So you should go Google that video and take You'll learn a lot from it. In December 2011, Uber decides it's time to So they start with Paris, France. And they raise a $32 million series B. So raised, you know, $43 million and the people Menlo Ventures, a leading VC, not as good quality VC, Amazon's Jeff Bezos was involved, And if you don't think the Goldman Sachs boys a future IPO, you're not paying attention. That's exactly how some banks get involved So, you know, five years later here in 2016, and protests, because Uber had been very successful the entitled cab drivers were trying to force the way. But there would be no Uber if people didn't And so they're trying to legislate away free And it's just not going to work. So anyway, that's what was happening this raised $32 million to launch their first international They continued to grow and move and in July just black cars anymore. Now you could get a Prius. And it cost a little less than the black car. So they were just applying their technology chapter, putting their mind to good use. And so you can see they didn't just say, &quot;it's It's all about black cars, all about limos.&quot; Nope, they were thinking beyond and as we well beyond. So that service about again 35% less expensive up, and there you have it. Well, in August of 2013, now we're less than and add cities, and controversy would come the big money. They raise $258 million from Google Ventures They were now what people like to call a unicorn, suddenly worth more than a billion dollars. And that was just incredible. So their forays and success drove a need for This is part of my point about going big and Within a year of that, July of '14, so, July in a series D at a $17 billion valuation. Let me say that again. $17 billion valuation. And at one point Uber was the most valuable And they continued to invest in technology For instance, they started Uber Pool, which It's a car pool . You could see people going You could hop in an Uber with them, you only all splitting it. So it's efficient for two or three people Then they started Uber Rush, which was a bicycle They also started Uber Cargo, where you're it off in trucks and small vans. And then Uber Eats. As a matter of fact, the founder of Valuetainment, because we're working crazy hours, and we So we're customers of Uber Eats and we say Get me one of these, one of those. We call for Uber Eats and great food is here. And that is an example of strategy thinking know, we got this technology with mapping, make efficient routes, we know how to do all Why not pick up cargo? Gosh, why shouldn't bicycle messengers use And that is the first chapter of Uber. Going all the way to their series D, the first And as you know if you read the headlines, viewers, I know you ask me questions and things I'm going to do a second case study that talks Uber faced, such as facing competition from Facing the city of Austin, Texas putting in Lyft saying, okay, the hell with it. We'll leave Austin, Texas. See what the people have to say about that hey, you know, we need more than just taxis. Come back. We're going to see how that plays out. We're also going to see some things happened because Hungary forced federal legislation inefficient cab service. Socialist entitlement, squashing free enterprise, And so we're going to see how Uber maintains and raises billions and billions of more dollars it becomes a fantastic mature company, responding the leadership of a UCLA dropout named Travis And that, my friends, is chapter one of Uber, you of those simple points. Great CEOs quite often don't come out of nowhere. They have a lot of experience. And if you're out there getting that experience, special when you get there. And my other two points. One, put a great core team around you early, got something, and that it's time to go big, And as you can see, Uber went out to get the I'm looking forward to another time where gave you a little sneak peek of that. And for today, we are saying, thank you, and to Valuetainment, the best channel on the Until next time, I'm Tom Ellsworth, and I