(relaxing music) - So hello Jamie. - Hi Rachel, how you doing? - Doing well. So I know that we're colleagues and I know we have a little but just for the sake of practice, it's making sure that I Give me a little bit and what you would like to work on today. - Yeah, so there was an a little over a month ago, that you were actually present for, I really kinda trust you So as I shared with you, I have setting up for a training in the morning. - Okay. - If I don't feel I have adequate time to get set up, to get cooled then I feel like I'm just totally frenetic and I'm not in a good enough place to actually begin the training. And I learned that a lot of that is not necessarily a bad thing, to get there to get early to get grounded because I do generate but whenever there's this like you know some of don't let us in until are coming in at 7:30, and so a couple weeks ago now, and you were there, you saw when a bunch of different and I think things went fine, and I rolled into it, but yeah, I definitely remember &quot;yeah, you definitely got activated, &quot;there's something there.&quot; - Sure. - And the more and more I dropped two things that morning. I dropped my golden milk, which is this real orange-ish it's there when I'm drinking it. And I spilled that on a counter as the lady, the host of the agency was kind of asking me I spilled it. And then later I ended And as you guys kinda called me out on it and I made some connections, that nervousness, that gets worse when I drop stuff, and I think it ties to old not being very coordinated, and then, you know wondering if with my dissociation and so yeah, it's that whole dropping having this tendency to - Gotcha. - That's the basics of it. - Okay, so knowing this and what would you say you would like to get out of doing this work today? - I mean I just think deeper insight into what this is about, in my life going forward so much when I drop things. 'Cause even I think a few days later when you and Tom and I were at lunch, I ended up dropping my and I felt that gut, you And I just dropped my damn keys. - Right. - But it still can-- And I notice that happens and I drop things often, but it still kinda has that, I'm clumsy. But that coming with a lot of loaded... - Still has charge. - Yeah. - There's charge there. - So if I can work on when I drop things, I think And if it is connected that would help me just stay more grounded and calm in the morning, for a training, 'cause you know that's a big part of my life. - Of course. - That would be fantastic. - Lovely. So it sounds like you your target memory, from that training. - Well I don't think that's necessarily the target memory, as much as like, the target cognition - &quot;I'm clumsy.&quot; - If that makes sense. - Yeah, yeah, that makes sense. - And yeah I'd be curious for you to like float that back with me, 'cause you know after all kinda did some it's, yeah it's specifically - Okay, okay, so the negative - Yeah, I think let's - And see where it goes. - And see where this matrix takes us. (laughing) - Let's go. - As you like to say. - Absolutely. So with the negative looking back over the course of your life, from the very beginning, that you remember - Wow, I think I'm just gonna go there. It was when I first tried I was five years old. My babysitter Carrie Anne took me, although my father was there as well, 'cause it was at Rocky Ridge where there was sledding and all of that. And I really wanted to skate. You know I ended up learning how to skate and skating well and all of that. But that first time, just and feeling like it should've That was the first. - Okay. So, looking over the course of your life, from the very beginning, that you believed &quot;I am clumsy?&quot; (exhales deeply) - I'm not drawing on a specific, but just a general sense of it always being an issue for my parents, with both my brother and I. Paul would get all messy with stuff. It may have been the, &quot;beaned in the head that my dad used to make. I think that would probably be Like you know, Jamie falls, &quot;'cause she's walking around looking like &quot;she's beaned in the And that's a statement I often associate with my dissociative stuff. - Gotcha, gotcha, all right. (breathing deeply) So, looking over the course of your life, from the very beginning, that you believed, &quot;I am clumsy?&quot; - Probably whenever the last which was a few days ago. (laughing) But yeah, we can go with spilling the golden milk. - Was the most recent, okay. - Was an oucher, 'cause that was probably the most embarrassing drop of late. - Okay, okay. So do you feel comfortable, - It was interesting, 'cause the first... I wasn't expecting it to go there, so I think that's probably - Okay. - Even though even as we're talking I would say the worst but you know what we teach, let's go with the first - Okay, so before we jump walk me through kind of maybe that you currently use that you already have prepared. - Yeah, well the Asatoma prayer, which is a huge prayer in the spiritual tradition I practice. I was just sharing with a friend today about how I pray that prayer no less than four or five times a day. You know which is, &quot;divine, lead me from &quot;from darkness into the light, &quot;from time bound consciousness &quot;to the timeless state So really any of my spiritual I do japa meditation, asana practice, breath practice, chanting, all of that. So that's more than three. (laughs) But those are specific to yoga, so reaching out to my friends. - So you got a good toolbox to work with. - Yeah, I'm pretty, as - Yes. - In your work. - So for our work today, that you would like to return to, should activation become too much, should you need to do a - Yeah, 'cause I would definitely give you like this for pause, like 'Cause often I just and look around and ground. 'Cause even when I do reprocess, I'd like to keep my eyes closed, but I can get a little floaty, so sometimes it's like, And this would be a full on stop. I mean definitely grounding me, just doing this kinda scan the room works. Doing the Asatoma prayer like I mentioned, and probably some yoga pose or we can dance or something like that. - Okay, sounds good. Ready to rock? - Let's rock. - All right. So we're gonna look at the target of the first time you So looking back on it now, what image represents the worst part of the target? - I can see myself... I have to talk this out a little bit. I can see myself clinging at the Rocky Ridge ice rink I'm still wearing like this maroon coat, that I remember having, and I can see like the skates kinda-- That's the worst part, the skates kind of (makes scraping noises) out from under me. And I could see Carrie on the sides getting frustrated. Jeez, I'm trying to... Yeah it's seeing them getting frustrated. - Okay, okay. When you bring up that image now, what is the negative belief about yourself that goes along with it? - I'm uncoordinated. 'Cause that plagued me When I skated and competed, and you know, I'm uncoordinated, I'm But yeah, I'm uncoordinated, yeah. - When you bring up the what would you like to - Um... (exhaling slowly) Um... Probably something like, 'Cause like, I am coordinated, doesn't... Probably, I can handle myself. But I don't know where that's gonna go. - It's all right. All right, so as you look what is your gut level feeling of how true that positive belief is right now, with one being completely false and seven being completely true. - Three. - What emotions do you feel with the negative belief - Wow, um, (laughs) I can't even really put words. - And you don't have to. - Just like I'm an I know it's almost a cognition too, but like, embarrassing, I'm just disgusted with myself. - What is your level of disturbance as you bring up the image, and all the emotions together, with zero being no disturbance or neutral, and 10 being the worst - It's middle of the road, about five. - What are you noticing in as you bring up the image, and the emotions all together? - My stomach feels like - So bring up the body the negative belief of and the image of the target memory. Notice whatever you notice. - I'd change the negative cognition. - Okay. - It's, I'm an embarrassment to myself. - &quot;I'm an embarrassment to myself.&quot; - Yeah. 'Cause that feels even... - Even more. - Ugh. Well then let's do that. So, &quot;I'm an embarrassment to myself.&quot; So let's do this. (breathing deeply) What is your level of disturbance as you bring up the image, all the emotions together, with zero being no disturbance or neutral, 10 being the worst that you can imagine? - It's a little higher, it's a seven. I already feel it linking in to the &quot;beaned with a fastball&quot; stuff. - Okay. What are you noticing in as you bring up the image, and the emotions all together? - It's still the pit, with a little bit of twinging in the chest. - Okay, so bring up the body sensation together with the negative belief of &quot;I'm an embarrassment to myself&quot; and the image of the target memory. Notice whatever you notice, as we begin. (hands tapping) Take a breath. (breathing deeply) What do you notice? - That I probably need even if I'm looking up, like getting floaty to not go there. I'll look up I think. (breathing deeply) - Let's go with that. (hands tapping) Take a breath. (breathing deeply) What are you noticing now? - I'm just so fucking awkward. I can see that maroon coat, with the beanie cap on outside, and, I mean there's other stuff connected to that I but it's just like, - Go with that. (hands tapping) Deep breath. (breathing deeply) - It's interesting that went that I actually have, of me skating on that when I know what I'm doing, when I'm doing like this beautiful spin. And I love that picture, freest states and I don't really know why the picture's coming up other than, there's a lot of other good 'cause, you know, high school got better. And I was in high school. Maybe I was more like 14, 15, I was 14. Yeah, it's still just that picture. - Let's go with that. (hands tapping) - I had those like flying (both laughing) Going back and forth in the picture. And Swishy pants. (laughs) (hands tapping) (exhaling deeply) - What are you noticing? - Dad saying &quot;you're Which is something he said and it's weird 'cause, I a complicated relationship, but, on one hand, I know he for learning how to skate and but I remember one time when I was about 14, I referred and he said &quot;you're not a real athlete.&quot; - Let's go with that. (hands tapping) - Wow. (breathing deeply) Dammit. - What are you noticing? - So I just went into this whole kind of long parade of body shame stuff. (groans) Yeah, 'cause when I did figure skate, I mean I was usually you know at camps or in and I had lost a between my seventh and eight grade yeah, but even still, you know that was still heavy for skating. And you know it's just things... (sighs) (exhales) So I know not to give of where it went, I guess my body is awkward, my It always has been. It just always has been. (laughs) - Let's go with that. (hands tapping) (sighs) - Wow. (hands tapping) (sighs) - Deep breath. (breathing deeply) What are you noticing? - Weird. Eighth grade, about a still kinda in it right now. I was on a class field trip to Pittsburgh and I fell and hit my head. We were at some kind of public park and I think, but I'm not sure, my mom took me to the ER And my dad made the comment, &quot;well did you fall down it was a &quot;beaned with the head You know, &quot;'cause you were like kind of &quot;off in another world?&quot; That's what he said. And the weird thing was, on those steps was skating things. - Should we go with that? - Mm hm. Yeah. - How d'you feel about being present. Feel like you need to keep - Just, yeah, I'm gonna keep my eyes open. - 'Kay. Let's go with that. (hands tapping) Deep breath. (breathing deeply) What do you notice? - It's not shame, 'cause I don't... You know I've worked through having shame about being a dissociative person. But I think it's embarrassment 'cause, like sometimes I can or I'm being a diva if I tell facilities I gotta be able to get in early to do my grounding and to - Let's go with that. - Yeah. (hands tapping) - Deep breath. (breathing deeply) - I think I have to close my eyes, but let me know if it gets bad. 'Cause it's embarrassed about - Let's go with that. (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) - You can tap my legs 'cause I think I have to hold my heart. - What are you noticing? - I can't put words to it. - Okay. (hands tapping) (exhaling deeply) (hands tapping) Deep breath. (breathing deeply) What are you noticing now? - I'm floaty. - Do you feel like you - No I'll just keep my - Okay. - Looking ahead. - Okay. (hands tapping) (laughs) Deep breath. (breathing deeply) - That was cool. 'Cause as you know, I kind of identify having this four-year-old ego state, nine-year-old ego state. Oh god the nine-year-old (both laughing) You know when I was actually nine. One of my most awkward years, and a lot of the healing I've done is to help her heal that. And it was just both of we're very proud of you. - Go with that? - Yeah. (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) - What are you noticing now? - So, I know I don't have but I just wanna share the four-year-old kinda said like, &quot;you fucking learned how to skate, &quot;like well, that's awesome.&quot; - Yeah. - &quot;You learned how to spin and jump &quot;and think of like where you &quot;to what you were able And then that went to, I of myself at about six, in that super duper between about like four and 14. (laughs) And yeah, it was from my brother's baptism and it was this picture of me at six and I had seen other pictures and had always judged and as I was going I found a new picture from that event and it just struck me as It was seeing myself in a new light, looking at that photo that I had not kind of consciously remembered. So I have it on my studio, I'm probably gonna do something with But it just kinda came being able to claim, like even with my awkwardness. - So let's do this, let's check back in. Check back and see kind So, when you return to the what is your level of with zero being no disturbance or neutral, 10 being the worst that you can imagine? - It's down. It's a two. - Okay. What do you feel keeps - It's still a little bit of... 'Cause I look at myself It's still more of this And I wanna be clear a bad babysitter or anything, even how we can feel teaching, just a little bit of that frustration of teaching a kid something new, like, come on Jamie you almost had it. (laughs) But yeah, just seeing that frustration, seeing my dad's frustration to some other teachers who I think have gotten - 'Kay, so let's go with that. (hands tapping) - Deep breath. (both laughing) - Well that was funny, 'cause gosh, looking at Carrie how I feel teaching people sometimes. So I know that's like, My dad's still sticking a little bit. - Okay. - And I'm hearing again, &quot;beaned in the head with a fastball.&quot; - Let's go with that. (hands tapping) - Which is odd, 'cause baseball consistently has been over the years. (hands tapping) - Wow. Woo. - Deep breath. (breathing deeply) - That landed on a memory little league softball. You know, again, was never really great, but I enjoyed doing it. And this one time, I forget but I dropped the most routine fly ball when I was in the outfield. And even afterwards, like you know, he was never one of those 'cause he knew I was to be this great ath-- As we've discussed. But it was, come on, he's like, &quot;Jamie, I know you know - Should we go with that? - Yeah. That's the dropping shit. (laughs) (hands tapping) But then that goes to, keep tapping, about three years later when I was 12, it was the last year I One of the proudest things ever was that I played first base. And my only really job was to catch the damn ball (laughs) when it was thrown to So like, in that three year period, I learned how to catch a ball. (sighs) Yeah, why am I still when I drop my keys. - Go with that. (hands tapping) - 'Cause I'm still associating with, that there's something wrong with my body. So it's like I can learn, I can adapt, all that's cool, but there's (sighs) (hands tapping) - Deep breath. (breathing deeply) - It's still that, there's - Okay. Let's go with that. (hands tapping) - Deep breath. (breathing deeply) What are you noticing now? - Um... It landed on this memory of probably about six, seven years ago and this one like hiking tour guide that my friend Maureen and I went with, he just could not stop And like was talking to about like, &quot;does she know And stuff like that. And yeah, I was lagging behind as I usually have, but what was I could still do it, I just or a little more modification, you know, even if I choose in any way, 'cause on one icked and ashamed this is coming up because I'm all about like body love and I feel fundamentally and my sexuality and all this, but (exhales forcefully) you know maybe the issue is more about it's still what other people when it comes to my body, I don't know. - Let's go with that. (exhales forcefully) (hands tapping) - Deep breath. (breathing deeply) - Let's not even get started, had commentary about my body. Just other things I don't wanna say. (sighs) - Let's do a litmus test, just to kinda see where it's landed. - Ah, there's something here. - Wanna keep going? - Yeah. - All right, okay, let's go with that. (hands tapping) - If you're hands need a break, take it, but this is good, this I need to stay here for a bit. - Okay, you stay there, (breathing deeply) What are you noticing? - Just that this is a position in EMDR when something's clearing. - Okay, let's go with that. (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) What are you noticing now? - Just that my body is but none of that will ever Kind of like just, and like I'm not feeling a lot of - Let's check in. - All right. - We'll see where we landed. All right. So, when you return to the what is your level of with zero being no disturbance or neutral, 10 being the worst that you can imagine? - Um, it's a one. - Okay, what keeps it from being a zero? - I guess I'm just wondering if there's like a deeper cauldron of dad stuff that needs to be explored with that, that I'm like, I don't or it needs to be opened - So for our work today...? - Uh huh, we could go with that other one. I can ask myself, no I mean I can ask what keeps it from being a zero. 'Cause it's definitely dad related. - 'Kay. So dad related. Let's go with that. (hands tapping) Breath. (breathing deeply) What are you noticing? - Something I don't wanna say. - Okay. Let's go with that. (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) - Honestly what I'm getting to their standard, you know, mom and dad. 'Cause I certainly got my share of clumsy commentary from mom too. And that's okay. Like it really kinda Like I'll never have the body either of them want me to have either. That's okay, 'cause it's no And it probably never really ever was. - Should we go with that? - Yeah. (hands tapping) (laughs) That felt good, to say that. (laughs) (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) - What are you noticing now? (laughs) - Honest thing that came I know we're being filmed, even as I'm doing this of oh, I'm sure I look chubby on the So. That felt good in my body. - Okay. Let's do this. When you return to the what is your level of Zero is no disturbance or neutral, 10 is the worst that you can imagine. - I don't even see my And that makes it a zero. - Okay. All right. So when you bring up the image, does the original positive of &quot;I can handle myself,&quot; Or is there another positive belief that might fit better now? - &quot;I can handle myself&quot; fits, but I think there's I don't know if this is too bold, but, I have an amazing body. You know, amazing in terms of... Well no, I'm not gonna but it's just like, I - Yeah, it's your positive belief. You can make it whatever you want. - Yeah. So &quot;I have an amazing body.&quot; All right. So what is your gut level feeling of how true that positive as you look back on the image, with one being completely false, seven being completely true? - It's about a six and a half. And I know what you're gonna ask me next. (both laughing) - What keeps it from being a seven? - Yeah, I mean the lingering essence is there's a little bit of it is like, oh is that arrogant to say? You know 'cause there I wanna qualify it, like, it's healthy, it's adaptable, I know, it's not in my I am an amazing body, 'cause my body is just a thing of this life. - Okay. But it has gotten me - Yeah. - And I fucking learned - Yeah, with your body. - Yeah, and I drop my keys and and I still am on point at 8:00 to teach. - Yes. So the question is, what keeps it from being a seven, or do you feel like six and a half is...? - Six and a half and there's still that, you know, is it arrogant. - &quot;Is it arrogant?&quot; - Yeah. - Let's go with that? - Yeah. Okay. - Yeah yeah. (hands tapping) (sighs) (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) I'd say keep going, 'cause I - Yeah, all right. (hands tapping) (laughs) - I can't believe-- I mean this is so weird to me. (breathing deeply) So it went to this song called &quot;Bodies,&quot; which is by a folk artist who does a lot of contemplative work that I like. And it's all about like, an emotional body, it's you know, and the And when she's talking there's this line in the you know, I do this, I do this, I do this, and oh, I just found my lost keys. Like as if to say that like, is part of what makes us brilliant. - Wanna go with that? - Yeah. So maybe it is just part of And spill my coffee. (hands tapping) A very dear person to me &quot;it's part of your charm.&quot; So, it's just... (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) - What are you noticing now? - It's a seven. (laughs) - You're like, yeah it is. - Yeah. - Awesome, okay. - I have an amazing body. It's been through a lot and it just is a lot, but - Okay, here's what we're gonna do. Place that positive belief, together with the original image. (breathing deeply) (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) - It's weird, 'cause as it went to that representative and there was a little oh I felt her judging me. And it cleared, but I think like kind of moving forward, there's this-- 'cause this is the reality of my life that I put myself in positions for people to judge me all the time, 'cause I'm in business for and I'm a teacher and all of this and, is it fair to say, so what? - Let's go with that. - All right. (hands tapping) (breathing deeply) And it's this like, process I know I'm gonna have to deal Like I'm recognizing it of like navigating this interplay between being evaluated, not 'cause yeah, I am that's the nature of my life. Versus, I can be human. - I say let's do one more. - All right. - Let's go with that. (hands tapping) Deep breath. (breathing deeply) - I really like this picture I'd like to receive the Have you take it. - Absolutely. - 'Cause it looks like a house from this perspective, kinda You know and I do this a lot, where it's like there's this interplay. It's like there's a Dr. Jamie and a Jamie. And we're the same person, but you know there's two different hands that make her. And it's okay, I can love them both. - Okay. So now that the positive what are you noticing, - It's this. It's this symbol here and I think whenever I get overwhelmed, whenever I, you know, 'cause like even that morning, I made sure I still had to like get myself. (breathing deeply) And I have to add this to And the rest of my body very here in a way it wasn't, 'cause I was getting a little floaty very early on in this. - So this feels very grounding? - Very grounding. And like my eyes feel - So from what hearing, let's together with the original target, and that positive belief of (hands tapping) (exhales deeply) (hands tapping) Breath. (breathing deeply) What are you noticing now? - This like idea of, this is my expression and it's coming home. Oh and just so many like, which I can share with you, - Yes! left and right, masculine feminine, this is hanuman in the - Patanjali. - Yeah. - Snake kundalini. - Kundalini. Um, this is really cool. 'Cause as many things as and all this, this exact position is not something I've ever - Well actually now if we count, one two - That chakras. - Chakras. (laughs) - Can we go with that? (both laughing) Let's go with that. (hands tapping) (exhales deeply) (hands tapping) Breath. (breathing deeply) - I like it. - Cool. So it seems to me from that, body's clear. How would you say that you're - Very grounded, very like, and I think you know this too, when you can get through the EMDR like, where the heck did all And this is not anything, I've consciously worked on before. As much EMDR as I've done. - Sure. - And, yeah I guess since the intention that brought me here was like, how I kind of behave in I'm just curious to see you know, and we'll see, but over all I feel a real sense of, like it's huge that I no longer see my dad on the boards when I bring up that memory. Just yeah, you were who learned how to skate. (breathing deeply) - So for closure, do you feel like there's anything that you need? Is there a skill that you Would you like some debriefing of what possibly could What do you think that - I think I'm good on what could happen, 'cause we've done enough of this. - Yes. - Um, yeah, will you just - Love to. - I'll let you guide me, but let's do some breaths together with this. - Inhale. (breathing deeply) And let it go. (exhaling deeply) Inhale. (breathing deeply) Let it go. (exhaling deeply) One more, inhale. (breathing deeply) let it go. (exhaling deeply) - I just wanna do the prayer. - Do it. - &quot;Lead me from the unreal to the real, &quot;from darkness into the light, &quot;and from time bound consciousness &quot;into the timeless state (breathing deeply) Thank you Rachel. - Thank you Jamie. (light music)