Can you Beat "dark ages" with you may think this world will be a cake walk... only 20 levels, pshhh, easy peasy, citron squeezy- DONT. LET THE DARK AGES FOOL YOU... I CAN'T EVEN BREATHE IN THAT. these 20 levels cause problems to deal with for the entirety of this challenge just a quick message guys, um...so i FULL TIME! Long story short, i love making THIS is my dream...but...now it means SO what are you doing! If you want help me out by subscribing to the channel where you can be featured at the end of me. I'm taking a big risk here guys so so without further ado, we went into day 1... WOAH THERE! Who dimmed the lights? the sun did dave...it was the sun- according to my research, a wait hold on, the PLAGUE is canon in PLANTS VS was a crucial plot point to shooting Also, sun no longer falls from the sky... well you coulda told me that but like penny said, sun doesn't meaning we have to resort to using our sunflowers which puts us at significant disadvantage as most of our plants our quite sun-demanding however, with the help of these sun tombstones, we're able to generate slightly more to combat both of these issues, i decided to- at least let me announce your ass- chomper is very useful in the dark ages with being with also being able to swallow two zombies whole but that didn't matter as with we were able to spam chompers giving us sunshroom...which in this world...im suddenly day 2..oh wait- i mean NIGHT 2, night 2 played out similarly with very and to buy more time, i let the first zombie and after eating everything else with chomper, we unlocked ANOTHER mushroom, and night 3, with these new plant food making it easier to get down a whole row i mean i genuinely think this whole me and my big...feet- so after "4 Nights at Penny's", she that have the ability to WATCH OUT ZOMBIES HE'LL STUFF in all seriousness, its obvious that this level is literally impossible...or is but that didn't stop me wanting to YAY MINI CHALLENGE GUYS! this is so much fun- i decided to see if this level was possible Can You Beat Night 4 Of The Dark and trust me when i say this, i think i spent something important to mention is when any zombie that decides to take which basically kills anything walking which is very important to beating this up outnumber the hypno-shrooms which also means you have to get lucky with otherwise the next wave of zombies will So after all that explanation, interestingly the zombies that spawn regardless of what row they appear in so certain placements like putting a mush a supermush in the top lane to kill and perfectly timing this wheelbarrow to at this point, i was clutching every mushroom and by the final wave i only but thankfully with 2 plant foods under my belt, the conveyer belt, we FINALLY took down this god im afraid the dark ages are vapours...have you tried putting down the vape?- we've now spent 5 nights at Davie's but thankfully we've got chomper there was nothing of note other than the jiggly dickheads so we cleared out the level and...oh...is WE NEED A DOCTOR IN THE HOUSE- CLEAR!!! day 6, oh hello peashooter level- i decided to deploy the snapdragon bucketheads did get a few bites in here and ...welp, you're useless- despite only being given 2000 sun, we made use I'm not sure if I've really addressed how but nightcaps main attack actually armour and takes them out in literal this considering we're in the dark ages but that didn't stop nightcap and also...just decapitating these we got given....erh- YELLOW FACE- and moved on to night 7, and OH MY GOODNESS, NOM- i swear, if chomper wasn't a garden warfare ...this world is now impossible- let's have a look here, mario mushroom, purple tank, pasty with a face, rainbow Ladies and gentlemen...night 8! we obviously had to skip this level, but to make THERE ARE EVIL POTIONS ON THE LAWN! oh very scary penny, what could ...boost zombies...i didn't realise this quote-on-quote &quot;boost&quot; made me wonder so watching this zombie he seemingly grew larger...and Is there anything you don't eat?- considering i was primarily only using chomper, so we once again powered through ...well that's not very nice- night 10...nah- night 11, oh hello mr. wizard! i wonder what you do- okay this bit is getting old now- the wizard zombie has the ability to why are you asking me- the sheep decide to just sit there, letting zombies walk on by and just but once merking the wizard zombie, all of my plants BREAK FREE from the the level even tried to slow me down but after setting our chompers to vacuum just like these puff-shrooms if we don't "plant this level seemed stressful as first, to gather more sun to get my plants on the board, but with having to keep these useless but it seemed like this level was no seriously i had max plant food at one point like, PLEASE BRUH THEY CANT EAT NO MORE- What, are we roleplaying now? I DUBIOUS ROCK AND BECOME THE KING OF boy, peashooter and walnut sure are good talk about two great plants what are you getting at dave- what if there was a plant that two plant powers in one two plant powers in one body? keep call you crazy penny...haha...thats would ever think to combine 2 plants PEANUT...what a foul name- shoots peas, tough as a i really dont care about this elongated dog toy- so we went on to night 14...produce...5000 sun- well this'll be fun, i hope youre oh you got to be pissing on my plants- WHAT DO YOU MEAN SUNFLOWER very funny dave, now where's the and you can say "got you! I pranked you so good!" WHERE ARE THE CAMERAS DAVE! WHERE ARE THE- so guys, it looks like...we i mean ive never seen cactus shoot look guys i tried everything in the book I even tried to justify me I have made a severe and continuous lapse- but even then the level doesn't GIVE me which is SO stupid, there literally but considering neither of these guys i technically consider this as a FORCING ME to get my sun using these so after clearing the 5000 sun limit we got the HELL out of that wretched level- oh, peashooter level again...can whilst watching nightcap dominate everything on was deliberately avoiding transforming nightcap neighborville lore" thing that im missing with the but knowing this very interesting piece of we grabbed...horseshoe- and went on to night 16... oh hello little imp, i like your funny horn! YOU KILLED MY FRIEND- this fat piece of shi-, uses his magic worthy to wear a knight hat...pshh although with the wizards bullying my chompers, I deployed nightcap to fight back and eliminate ...what happened to you lot- night 17 wasn't much to yap our new win condition...or should i say win night 18... i mean...we've got corn- as much i was to invest another 5 hours into i already cant use sun-shroom, so this makes this on top of that, i figured out these that's shot at them, like a spoilt toddler so kernel corn just decides to have a tennis match and the nail in the coffin was me yet STILL getting my ass kicked so i ended up just using the plants i was given- dont even look at me peanut day 19...day 19...DAY NINETEEN- i cant stress this enough..but THIS LEVEL...WAS and you probably think im joking...but this level took me 5 HOURS TO BEAT...and look how naive i was, this was my first attempt, little sunflower here and BOOM ZOMBIE and this is the best part, i cant even to kill this basic ass zombie so at this point i decided, well i'm or something...THIS WAS JUST THE BEGINNING- i brought along walnut as cactus' ability but then THESE TWO KNOBS SHOWED so then i thought, well i'll bring have potato mine here too, which let me get this zombies plant food chomper to stop the middle lane, put down ANOTHER look at the state of me, i of dandelions family tree. How DiD I GeT HeRe???? so this time round, i used to target more lanes...yea really then i got hit with this advert of a honest i'd rather be in that truck change of plans, i'll use iceberg but then i remembered that one of my lawnmowers...how did i forget that- but anyway deploying the wheelbarrow which let me focus on the top zombie and so THEN i thought, what if i place the first me enough time to get down a chomper, WHICH i was seriously losing my like i don't think you realise how i eventually decided to, for some reason, which i chose to do because after playing this a lawnmower in a particular row, stops zombies the first zombie instead walks down the second and this actually managed wave and see the first wizard zombie...piss off- and at this point i was feeling really good, we're actually over HALFWAY INTO and then this armless imp ate my horseshoe, i retried the level with all of made it to the FINAL WAVE...where they deployed after all of that meticulous routing i just couldn't do it anymore, if ANYONE knows me because this is physically impossible in my the floral federation server im a part of or just I beat night 19 with a which made this level actually day 20... that's it just day 20 this time- hast thou noted how violent thine perchance, hast thou wondered verily, i shall tell thee. ITS okay i'm not saying this really helps to night 20, here we go, what...is that the entire time i was beating this also i can't use anything here so- WE TOOK DOWN spartan zomboss...are and he dropped the key to "neon mixtape tour"... but that'll have to be for next time because there was the dark ages beaten please subscribe to me if you like ...i can't do this anymore bruh-