The Illusion of Competence. So you read an actionable, insightful book. You learn visually by highlighting the key an hour later or maybe it's 5 minutes later, if your friends or family about all these amazing awkward pause... Why can't I explain what This happens to the best of us. It's gist of it is all that underlining, all is giving us the illusion that we're learning like a potato. So how to fix it? One way is to notes are actually smart. This is how Leonardo da who invented tanks, made scientific discoveries in and had time to paint on the side, like the Last smart notes and published more than 70 books politics, art, religion, media and even love. you just want to remember the things that you've There are 3 things that make smart notes smart. that they're not passive highlights, underlines 1/ active smart notes Instead, it's about actively own structure. Now, you might ask, Well, what is here's a great one to get started: It's Evidence and Conclusion. This is what I used in this still works because Professor Cal Newport lots of books on a deep work on time blocking and actually he was the one that named this the things when you're reading: the questions, the matter what you're reading, which order the author things and link them together. Professor Newport read. For any conclusions, ideas, you put a you put a dash across it. And when you review these ideas trying to answer and which evidence example with the book Atomic Habits. James Clear, of his headings are actually already questions. ideas and put a dot next to them. He gives great them. Once you've finished reading a section, Start with question, give the evidence and write Now, most people stop here, right? I've I've got the conclusion. What more do I need? others. Because the next thing about smart notes and the ideas on them matter. When other document, 2/ atomic smart notes whether digitally make your notes atomic. This is a classic example think. Think about it. If you use a giant word right? You think chronologically, you think A, a sudden you can't really remember what was B. But but each idea stands alone by itself, then you left to right. You can think diagonally. You of a sudden your ideas come alive. This is what first rule is that you can't really know anything bang 'em back. If the facts don't hang together a usable form.&quot; So once you've got your Q/E/C's, each evidence, each conclusion to be its own to rearrange them. Especially if you're using is going to make all the difference. Because is that they are connected, which means one, we've there's a two, 3/ connected smart notes which is you also want to connect new ideas to existing we will combat the illusion of competence. The you're latching your new ideas onto existing ones. of the Zettelkasten thinking. I learned this middle and you think in four different directions. Where does this idea come from? West is: What's with this idea? And South is: Where can this from Atomic Habits again. &quot;You do not rise to the systems.&quot; Let's use that as the main idea. Okay, Well, James Clear says it comes from goal oriented is that winners and losers have the same goals, they set that help them achieve those goals. Okay, don't focus on goals, focus on the system? Well, I've talked about it in detail here. But the to make sure that you're reaching your large organizations, we can apply similar then let's go east. What competes with this idea What's missing? Well, we can say that goal setting go towards and then have the system that get you the wrong trajectory, then it doesn't matter how where you want to go. Goal setting has to happen then, let's go south. Where does the idea of goals himself, is not just about forming good habits. atomic habits has helped people with addiction, thinking and larger organizations. Maybe we can break bad habits like problems in diversity, like in four different directions, we're coming up with Connecting ideas is essential. And if you want then make sure you check out my Zettelkasten