Colossal Questions. Why do we get pimples? It doesn't matter how many you're almost certainly at some point in your life. As you turn into young going into overdrive, producing and hormones to help you grow. One of the ways your is by producing extra oil in It might sound funny, but is actually super important But as your body grows, than it needs, which and bacteria to clog We call those clogged pores blackheads, whiteheads, and So if you wake up on the day with a big fat blemish don't freak out. The best thing you can do touching your face because and cause other breakouts. Oh, and one more thing said than done, don't I know. I know. It's almost But according to better off letting pimples Popping them can actually into the skin, causing even What would happen if I Here's what would happen if never going to shower again. Well, for starters, you'd stink. This one's pretty Dead skin, dirt, and would slowly build up causing an obnoxious odor. Is that not gross enough Well, how about brown start growing on your skin? That's right. Dirt, dust, or other would slowly start to causing brown growths. It's most likely to happen on the most natural oils, and behind the ears. Dead skin wouldn't just Your scalp would have all We call dead skin that It's a pretty for people who shower regularly, to itch. But if you stopped well, your dandruff Your hair would and would start to look like unintentional dreadlocks. As if that wasn't bad would have the worst giving you terrible pimples buildup. But if just being isn't enough to what about the effect That's right, showers you looking and smelling nice. They also keep you healthy. We're all taught that if we it's best to wash it off. That's because dirt and But if you never shower, is way more likely because of all the extra in your skin. So while it might be or shower regularly, annoying than losing Have you ever stopped we get gas in the first place? Unfortunately for us all, makes us fart. We pass gas about 20 times You see, every time you swallow we swallow a little All that gas builds and, well, has to come The air can come back or much more OK, so pretty simple. We pass gas from when we swallow too much air. But why do some That has more to do with You see, the bacteria help break down That process releases special There are four basic that cause a stinky reaction. The first is fructose, in some tree fruits, berries, The second is lactose, and other dairy products Third is raffinose, which is cabbage, and other vegetables. Last is sorbitol, which is and made artificially OK, so that's why some farts Why are some silent while How loud a fart is depends how fast it comes out, and how well, you know. If your muscles you'll likely pass But when you're trying not the intense release causes that can make it extra loud. What causes our nose Anyone who's ever knows they're not very pleasant. But they're usually harmless They tend to start near the front of blood vessels are to the surface of your skin. All that makes them more There are lots of you can get a nosebleed. Believe it or not, is actually a common cause. Getting up in there cause a scratch from your nail A physical injury like or when you're young, sticking can do it too. Even being sick with can start a nose bleed. All that tissue rubbing can lead to broken blood The last major cause is When the air is extra dry, dries up too and gets all If you ever get a The best way to handle it is some nearby tissues lean your head forward, shut in the soft spot It can take a couple of minutes so be patient. But if it does last for it might be time to You might feel tempted when the blood starts but try to resist. It can cause the into your throat, which and might end up And unless you happen swallowing blood isn't ideal. What would happen if you never Believe it or not, throughout found ways to brush their of the toothbrush. For instance, the made a terrible by splitting the end of a twig Yeesh! Another popular method was dipping a rag in saltwater In order to keep their people in ancient chew on flavored twigs kind The Chinese were the first 1,000 years ago during It was made using hairs on the back and attaching them to a OK, so now that you know where let's get right down to it. What would happen if you never Whenever you eat, breaks down the sugars from the food you ate. That sugar turns into the protective coating around We call it a cavity. Whenever the acid rots a hole every time you brush your teeth, and protecting your If you don't brush your teeth, and up and up and form a yellow on each tooth. Plaque can cause teeth if you don't make the Think of it this way. When you watch a movie that lots of times characters will Well, that's what someone goes their whole life And it might look right on a you don't want to be going falling out of your mouth. What actually Snores are big deep noises while we sleep that can and at worst, be loud or even wake someone About half of us will throughout our lives. So it's something you're one way or another. For some, snoring is a and others just snore from So what actually causes that? Well, you snore whenever through your nose and If the air can't it will burst out, kind from your nose, make the classic snoring sound. There's all sorts that can cause you to snore. Blocked airways or a stuffy because they make it hard Allergies, colds, or of a night spent snoring. But you can also snore you're built. Guys have naturally narrower making them more Being overweight Fat around the neck and leading to that terrible sound. OK, so we know why we snore But how do we avoid If your nose is stuffed up, make before bed. You can try some new Keep your head up while laying in bed And try sleeping on your This helps you breathe easier. And it will keep your nose from fast if you're sick. Living healthy also helps a lot. Losing weight and been shown to help people and avoiding fatty before bed can help too. And as annoying it's hard to say if that late-night bowl of ice What would happen if The very first day might not go exactly The lack of normal sleep since it doesn't have a As a result, the reward will produce a chemical that will make you feel good, Off to a good start, huh? Well, enjoy that while are about to take a First, your brain by shutting down the prefrontal controls your impulses, reaction By the beginning after two full your brain and body will And you might start to look under your eyes. Two nights without sleep on your immune system leave you much more vulnerable Day three without sleep is start to get weird. If you managed to make it it's almost certain hallucinating as if your dreams world. Trippy. Without sleep, it won't be die from exhaustion. Scientists don't know a healthy human can But expert estimates suggest than a few months at best. The longest one recorded going without sleep is hours. But here's the Even if you go that long is about 12 hours sleep to get you back on track effects. What's more dangerous is not Studies show that of serious medical heart disease, diabetes, your life expectancy. So, yes, it might be when all you want to do But trust us, you're better What actually causes us to puke? Right before you throw happen inside your Your mouth coats to protect them from the Usually, blood as your body redirects And just as you're the muscles in your literally squeeze your stomach, up your digestive tract, to your One of the main reasons we puke Most animals eat small meals So if they do eat their body can usually fight But since humans eat such large we're more likely So when it comes to being able to puke can but it doesn't always If your stomach or if you catch some sort that can trigger vomiting too. Another common cause Experts can't say causes us to get but they do have When our balance after spinning around a bunch our senses get confused all kinds of mixed messages our body into emergency mode. And finally, puking isn't always Our emotions can We can vomit if we're or grossed out about So why do we throw up? It turns out there are Just maybe take some precautions after you ride the What did people use Even before toilet people still needed after going to the bathroom. And through the been all sorts of solutions The Romans used a tersorium. That's a fancy Roman a sponge attached to was shared by everyone. Yeah, not ideal. But that's not all. The stalls weren't very private. Romans had one long marble bench no walls or barriers Sticks wrapped in cloth were Around this time, paper was And eventually, people started instead. The very first known was invented in England in 1596, And things didn't in the butt wiping In colonial America, colonizing North America before switching to old Toilet paper wasn't actually for the first time then, it wasn't quite as soft For the first few would often get little splinters paper used at the time. In the last 50 or have been lots of innovations in to the ultra-soft, absorbent, So next time your brother and soiled when you got to sharing a sponge on a stick. Do we really need to sweat? It sure stinks to get all But it turns out that a key part of helping regulate Everybody has two million The only place with It might not seem like pretty much always sweating. You just don't notice it because before enough builds up When your body starts your brain sends signals glands telling them to When that sweat it takes some of the heat with But when your body after exercise or on that sweat builds up faster Most of us don't It's wet, sticky, stinky, But despite all that, you Without sweat to your body would overheat, or even kill you. OK, so that's why we sweat But why is our sweat salty? Well, sweat is mostly made up but there's also trace amounts chemicals, sugars, and salts. These all make their and eventually work their Your body filters out most but enough gets through to taste. Now I want French fries. Is that weird? [music playing]