In 1842CE, the British Consul General in Morocco he had taken any measures to stop slavery The sultan replied that he will not do anything the time of the sons of Adam and no sects Hence, he will not permit anything the Qur'an that the Qur'an has allowed. In the Sultan's reply, we see the simplest 1300 years of slavery in the Islamic world. This video is part of a bigger collaboration the topic of Africa. Don't forget to watch the video before this First of all, I've chosen to call this trade key part of this network. Arabs weren't the only people involved in raiders involved in the process were Arabs. Most of the important markets were in Arab I didn't call it the East African Slave East Africa. Other routes were involved as well. Slavery was already practiced in Arabia and the 7th and 8th centuries. Islam did not abolish slavery but some regulations caliphs. There were four ways someone could end up First, a child born to slave parents was a Second, a person captured in a Jihad against Third, a slave could be purchased or finally, The people living under Islamic rule, Muslim they rebelled or they helped an enemy of the Bernard Lewis writes... In the Islamic world, various ethnicities descent. In fact, they were all considered to have Ibn Butlan, in his handbook, tries to characterize He recommends Indians and Nubians as guards As laborers, servants, and eunuchs, he recommends and as soldiers, Turks and Slavs. Yes, even white people were enslaved. However, there was a distinction between then. The white slaves were called "Mamluk" "Abd" which means, "Slave". Where white slaves could rise up to respectable The Mamluks had their own dynasties in Egypt In fact, even in literature or poetry, we or otherwise, after the Umayyads. Even free black people weren't all treated there were exceptions. An early chronicler, Jahshiyari writes an who was apparently the secretary of the last The story goes that the caliph had received governor. The caliph was unhappy with him and told his disparagement. Abd al-Hamid wrote, "Had you been able to color than black, you would have sent that This story, along with many others, show that nicely and preferred other ethnicities if Even in the times of Prophet Muhammad, Byzantine Africans were just one of various slaves available. However, over time, the number of black slaves Main reason for that was the stabilization Turks and Indians started to embrace Islam and as Jihad slowed down after the 8th century, Mostly against Byzantine and other European exchanged. While, it's easy to say that the distinguishing and not race, that's not all that true. The ruler of Bornu, for example, complained the slave traders were ravaging Bornu and family, and Muslims. While it was forbidden to enslave Muslims, could be enslaved. Very early on, the Muslims signed a treaty in exchange for peace. This was probably the reason that Nubia was However, conquests across the Sahara opened and among the things transported across these slaves. Muslim Arabs bought slaves from these routes back into the Islamic heartland. This started almost right after the conquests The Coast of the Zanj, modern Kenya and Tanzania, and from there, Oman and the Persian Gulf they were sold to the Muslims. Somalis before they were Islamized were a interior peoples were exported as slaves from from there, via Mecca, Damascus and Baghdad. In Mesopotamia, a large number of Zanj slaves saltpeter mines. Apparently, the working conditions were so between 868CE and 883CE and became a serious This went on for centuries and became a system into. At the time, various African tribes raided them on the frontiers of the Islamic Empire. From here, Arabs took over and took these borders but also, in India and across the Unfortunately, the holiest site in the Islamic slave trading. People bought slaves in this market when they Slaves were brought there as a commodity which They were easier to protect than any other brought them along. People also bought them in Mecca since people All the way up to 1962CE, slaves were being In "The Legacy of Arab-Islam In Africa", The main areas from which slaves were drawn Muslim locations and then to the wider Islamic The traffic started mainly from Nubia, from of Dongola were taken to Egypt. Slaves were exported also from Kanem-Borno People groups living around the Lake Chad while in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries an important part of the slave traffic along Some were sent later from Tripoli to ports Yugoslavia which were all at the time under Slaves from the Middle Niger and the Atlantic to Tahert (in modern Algeria) and Qayrawan Sijilmasa, Fez and other centres of the western Spain and Sicily when it was under Muslim Ibn Khaldun testifies to the presence of a North Africa when he wrote that blacks constituted Muslim Berber groups of North Africa like in the raiding, and in the traffic of black the Mediterranean world, some of whom were As early as the eighth century, the Berber controlled the trade routes, and thus the [Quotation from the book ends here] Considering the terrible conditions on these of the slave raids, one historian estimates 10 had died on the way there. These raids were often labeled Jihad by the Neither the Muslim raiders nor the buyers were and where they came from. The Swahili coast became a bustling hub of A network was established across the Indian In the 18th and 19th century, when Ivory trade to carry Ivory and other precious commodities It was during those centuries that the slave From around 1800CE to 1850CE, most European trade started to die on the western side. However, on the east, it was picking up further. The British did try to have countries abolish Not only did it not work, it probably had As colonization was taking place, a lot of Muslim Bornu, for example, entered into a them slaves. Muslim Africa ravaged the continent and raided The stories of those raids are disturbing, Most Muslim rulers of the region were interested There weren't many advocating for abolition, died out. The British could not force the rulers to However, by the end of the 19th century, Africa and slave trade was put to an end. Muslim states of the middle east were breaking man of Europe. The Europeans were isolating countries that All these factors combined put a slow end It was outlawed in Saudi Arabia in 1962CE. However, slavery, in some forms, is still From 1450CE to 1850CE, an estimated 12 million Americas. In around the same period, 5 million African However, the Islamic trade existed for a much total number of slaves traded from 600CE to Thank you for watching this video. This video was just an overview of the Arab More videos will follow. As I said before, it's part of a huge collaboration so, don't forget to see the video after See you next time.