He's gonna take you back to the past To play the shitty games that suck ass He'd rather have a buffalo take a diarrhea dump in his ear He'd rather eat the rotten asshole of a roadkilled skunk and down it with beer He's the angriest gamer you've ever heard He's the Angry Nintendo Nerd He's the Angry Atari, Sega Nerd He's the Angry Video Game Nerd When you think back to the early days of the NES, one title that can't be forgotten is Paperboy. It was one of the first NES games Atari, who first introduced it as an arcade in 1985. And then it was ported on to more consoles Commodore 64, Apple II, Amiga, Sega Master Everything you could possibly think of! There is even a Tiger Handheld version. Also, a sequel and an N64 version in 3D style. It really caught on. It's considered of enduring interest, the highest nostalgic value. It connected with the public, it's universally renowned, One of the all-time classic video games! And it's all about delivering newspapers. It's as basic as it gets. You're a paperboy riding a bike with one goal: For those who remember it, But for the younger gamers today, Maybe not, but if so, I'll clear it up... okay? A newspaper is a publication issued at and contains news, politics, sports, business, And they were printed on paper! It was fucking crazy! Yes, newspapers still exist, and even Nintendo Anyway, if you know newspapers There's seven stages, or should I say, seven days. At the start of each day you're shown a street map Indicating which houses are subscribers, Then you're on your way to start delivering papers. Thankfully, you do not have to The subscribers' homes are very easy to recognize, Not by the mailbox, that would make too much sense. The entire houses are labeled by color. The white houses are subscribers, Wow. Can you imagine painting your house Next time you and your spouse are going over the bills and they're on your case about cancelling you'll first have to consider if you really want to go The idea is to throw the newspapers, hoping they land Yeah, points. It was an arcade For every house you miss, the next But you can also lose subscribers Apparently, there's a brick inside these Now I feel really bad for this paperboy But seriously, can you break a Can't say I ever tried it... Okay, so it's possible! Even if you get one in the mailbox, but Assholes. They got their paper! I still delivered it, didn't I? Dude, if I was a kid and Nintendo Power came I've been playing this game for almost 30 years and The game is tilted in an awkward isometric angle, which was ambitious for its' time, but annoying as hell. When you throw a paper, you have to time it perfectly, and even after the paper is airborne, it changes its' You just have to throw it and hope It's sort of like a game kids used to play in the 60's, and flush them simultaneously, Actually, I just made that up. It wouldn't be as hard if you weren't so I'm never able to split my attention to the I'm either going to break a window Not to mention, only three hits and the game's over! Damn, I was so close! Ugh, again?! Jesus, fuck! Dreaugh! And you know what pisses me off the most? It's that nobody else seems to think this is that hard. But for me, aiming the newspaper into the mailbox from a playground roundabout that's aiming into a bottle cap that's tied by a string It would take somebody from NASA, who knows how to calculate exactly when a certain asteroid is going to pass by a certain planet when it's lined up Meanwhile, I'm still trying to calculate my cat's after wiping its ass on it, before its But hang on, what are we talking Getting a newspaper to land on a doormat, When would that ever happen? All the times I've witnessed newspapers There. Have you ever seen anybody NO! Nobody tries that! If you did, you'd be a town hero! You get your dick sucked! Cats would bow at your feet... Prrmeeew! Even the neighborhood pit bull would spread They just drop them near the curb. Maybe in the driveway, where you'll and it'll get soaked by rain before until the water and paper consistency and then it dries in the sun, looking like some Nowadays, newspapers are usually delivered but I guess &quot;Newspaper Adult Car Driving Deliverer&quot; But neither did this! You want to deliver something? Deliver us from the torment in this horrible game!!! How hard would it actually be to Only one way to find out... Yep, what I thought... It's more fun to break the windows anyway, so fuck it. Extra! Extra! Paperboy goes mad! Here's some Assifieds! Here you go, Daily Douchebag! 10% off your next purchase of FUCK YOU! Cloudy with a chance of ass-kicking! Dear Abby, make 'em eat shit! Crosswords, can you spell &quot;cunt&quot;?! Horoscopes, you will achieve greatness... IN HELL!! But here's the real kicker. You know how to turn a non- You know what you do? Break their windows. Is that in your job duty? Is that the protocol? Your boss tells you, &quot;Look, if they don't subscribe, I'd like to know more about this boss. Who is this This is the type of person who takes out a housefly with a grenade, and every time their car runs You're breaking people's windows. They have to get new glass, fast! &quot;Please! We'll subscribe to your paper! Another weird thing about this I don't even know how to explain it, but if you press It only lasts for a fraction of a second, You have to be very deliberate with how you press it. I've never seen this phenomenon Now, let's talk about the in-game Take this home for example: impeccable and spacious, with four beds, two baths, 2,500 square feet, granite counters, hardwood floors, central air and heat, ... and two gravestones. And plenty open lots for the rest of your family. Why are there gravestones in the front yard?! And how do you knock 'em over with your newspapers? These are some powerful papers! Maybe the gravestones are just And they're the only home that celebrates it. We're only getting started. Who's this crazy woman, She's a subscriber, too! You don't even In fact, I landed a paper right on her What's her deal? Maybe she read too How do you make the same comic strip every day? And this guy here... can you take that inside? Really? Do you have to do that on the sidewalk? You fucking pervert. Then there's a tire that randomly comes Who's back there, rolling tires? Get a life! How about the lawn mower? The remote- Yeah! He's breakdancing all by himself on the sidewalk! Is it a challenge? Did I get served? What's this? A tornado or the Tasmanian fuckin' Devil? If there's a tornado comin' through town, I think the Can't I take the day off if there's Maybe it's Simon Belmont. You didn't know that. After he used the tornado, he had to pass through Paperboy How about the lawn ornament? an old tradition seen in Home Alone, for example. This may be common, but it's not This should be making headlines. I should be delivering, &quot;Extra! Extra! instead of &quot;Paperboy calls it quits!&quot; That's not newsworthy! Then there's the dog. That's The only hazard a paperboy might actually encounter. But man, does this dog run far. And uh, um... ... the Grim Reaper is in town. That's a problem. Here, read the obituaries, you piece of shit! You would think, maybe the instruction manual Maybe there's a reason why all this is happening. But no, it lists the obstacles, and that's it. Even Jekyll and Hyde had a detailed This manual tells you the absolute minimum; No illustrations, except for the controller. It's one of the most boring NES manuals I've ever seen. And if I can say anything at all about Jekyll and Hyde Speaking of Jekyll and Hyde, there's It's an ordinary town full of things It's made to look innocent, but it's all a trick. Listen to the music, it's peaceful and mellow. [ Paperboy theme ] [CRASH!] It makes you feel like there's nothing too urgent It annoys me to the very core of my soul! Ever since I've played this game as a kid, Did i just hit a bright green Model T that's parked? Could I be humiliated any more? And I respawn right behind it?! Are you kidding me?!? What would happen if an actual Nobody gets their papers? You can't ride over the curb. If you're in the street, you're stuck That's your only window of opportunity But there's always something in so you're always trapped in the Come to think of it, the game hardly Half the space is taken up by the houses. You'll never go to the left very much, so that It's like Back to the Future: you're moving through a town you can't do anything to stop yourself from moving, and every common thing is out to kill you. But imagine if you were playing Back to the Future crammed into the corner of the screen, and if you make it onto the sidewalk, Ask any newspaper delivery person: I doubt they'd say &quot;It's like Silver Surfer As for the houses, that's any NES It's nothing. Ughn, fuck!! Diddly dick!! This is impossible, with only three lives! Maybe there's a secret method. Ugh! What the hell? Wow! The official Paperboy strategy guide! [sad trombone] Whenever you make it to the end of the street, Why would you pass through an obstacle Does it just happen to be on the way, I'd say this kid deserves a little fun. I mean, he has a pretty dangerous job. And remember, he still has to go to school afterwards. He even gets some fanfare! That's right, there's been people sitting What's up with the guy on the right? The obstacles have no rhyme or reason. Cones, hoops and ramps are scattered like random, as if the programmer stamped them It's like designing a course in And whenever a path splits, it's all a matter of chance With the ramps, you have to be lined up perfectly. Fuck this isometric angle! Deargh! FUCK! FUCK!! Urgh! You know what? I hate this game, Some people are good at it and Yeah, I'd say! Almost 30 years For everybody who's taken a beating down but still remembers it as this great nostalgic pastime, I'm here to remind you: Paperboy so I suggest you unsubscribe to your sentimentality. Now I have a delivery to make. Hnnrgh! Yeah! Woahaoh! Mwa ha ha ha ha!