- [Narrator] For my next bite, break off a piece of a in some of these onions and sumac. This is one of those pieces of meat that deserves a moment of silence. (pop music) Good morning everyone it's Marc Wiens with migrationology.com in Istanbul, Turkey. Good morning Ying. - Good morning. - It is a beautiful day outside. The buses are running. The streets are not deserted. It is still pretty quiet. But it is a completely different scenario from 24 hours ago. So we're gonna make a move and go have breakfast. Do you want it over? - Yeah. We are on our way to a (mumbling) to a breakfast restaurant. (pop music) Okay. That was a very short and we got dropped off in (mumbling). This is an amazing with narrow lanes, lots and cafes. And, we were here the and it was busy and packed. This morning it is quiet and peaceful. I'm so glad we decided to I did not want to leave Turkish breakfast, and today tomorrow we leave in I want to give a shout fruityhub.tv, and also IstanbulFood.com. She recommended this I'm really glad that we and that they are open this morning. And I just ordered Okay, thank you. Whoa, that's a huge dog. The other day when I had Turkish (foreign language), which But today I went for more And I saw braised beef on the menu and I couldn't resist. It came to our table and You could see the butter and bubbling over. And the whole egg was and it almost looked like a heartbeat. And then there's some braised beef on top. And then there's a sprinkle and maybe zatar, or some kind of herb sprinkled on top. And, that looks like a wonderful egg dish. Break off a piece and I want to dig right where all that spice is. Ohhh, yes. Oh, and I love how the half way cooked, so it remains raw. And almost like gravy-ish. Okay. Beef, oh look at that wonderfulness. Oh yeah. Wow, that's good. I think there's some cheese in there too? That's like melty eggs. Like, half liquid and half cooked. And then it's salty, the beef is really tender. And you've got that hint of like a an herb, I think thyme flavor. I think I may have been I don't think there's but I think that cheese from the yolk and the butter. That is so wonderfully good, One more bite before I proceed onwards. That is a, a hearty egg dish. And this is another very for Turkish breakfast, it is clotted cream with honey on top. And, so you kind of get Wow. Yeah. That is quite a contrast But that sweet honey and then just that really it's almost like whipped into a buttery consistency. This one is the white cheese. And I think I'll eat that with an olive. Mmm. Just a sensational trio. - [Ying] What's that? - Is that a cat? - [Ying] Yeah. - [Ying] (mumbling) As I was taking that sip a tea a cat just came up and licked my And then it disappeared. I have a slice of tomato. Oh, and I think there's down here. Mmm. Tomatoes are so good in Turkey. I'm gonna add this chili to Break off a nice piece of bread. And I'm gonna make this bite count. I'm gonna make it a nice and big bite. Ohh, this egg dish is just impressively good though. Ohhh, look at that. Okay. (laughs) There's like half an egg yolk in here. Chilies, and braised beef. One more thing to add to Gotta hit that with some pepper. Oh yes. And I may as well pepper my whole eggs while I'm at it. That is amazing. That was another amazing And this is the type of that you just, you don't even You just want to sit the ambiance, the street, the other cafes around. This is an awesome, awesome place. (pop music) Besiktas is such a cool neighborhood. I'm loving just walking There's so many restaurants and cafes. There are markets. There's street food. Great places to just sit and hang out., or to people watch. (pop music) (foreign language) - [Marc] Thank you. We're on our way walking to the Bosphorus and we're gonna take the boat. But I decided to get a quick simit. This is something you will see everywhere walking around Istanbul. This is one of the most or light meals. It's available throughout the day. It's kind of similar, in It is a circular shaped piece of bread. And this one is topped with literally everywhere you go in Istanbul you will see carts set up selling simit. Yeah. It's just plain but the, what I like about The sesame seeds give it The texture is a little bit chewy. And, a little bit dry. (pop music) We made it to Besiktas the boat across the (pop music) Thank you. (pop music) Istanbul is the only city in the world that is divided between two continents. Or, can I say, straddled with the Bosphorus Strait. And so we've been on the entire trip so far. And yesterday, I had the entire day on the When things didn't turn But that is okay. This morning we are on the boat now and we are heading to Asia. Across the Bosphorus Strait. We're on a boat that's gonna (pop music) Welcome to the Asian side of Istanbul. And we are gonna walk around this area. It was exactly one week ago today that we were in Mumbai, to the island. This was a completely from in India. Both amazing. I will link that video below if you haven't already seen it. Ahhh. This is a very nice and We are now walking down the street and on our way to Kadikoy Market. (world music) Oh Ying, this is what I We made it to Kadikoy Market. And we are in the fresh market section. It's a little bit quiet and I read that some shops don't open. But it's still a wonderful Lots and lots of colorful There are lots of olives and fish. The fresh fish. Oh, look at all this produce and these wonderful fruits. Look at all those cherries. And then if you walk a little bit up the hill a little bit, you come to lots and lots of clothes shops and cafes, and restaurants. Can I have one kilo? - [Man] Okay. - [Marc] Of cherries. - [Man] (mumbling) - [Marc] Thank you. Ying and I have been since being in Istanbul. Just the other day we which we finished. So we saw the cherries here and had to get another kilo of them. Look at these beauties. Mmm. They're so juicy. And so plump. Hello, thank you. There's so many different and many different chili - Pickle juice? Yes, okay. I think just one. - [Marc] Yeah. Thank you. I saw this in a TV show about Istanbul. Drinking pickle juice. And so I was just walking I saw this pickle shop. I came inside and asked And he just gave me a cup of pickle juice. Oh, wow. Yeah, that is straight up pickle juice. That is sour and salty. Hooo. That will wake you up in the morning. I kind of like it. Ho. Thank you. Don't let the color of this fool you. Although it looks like grapefruit juice. It is absolutely nothing like grapefruit juice. Ho, that's like that tastes very like kind of cleansing and like energy filled though, because you've got all those salts in there. The sourness. It's like a a powerful concentrated energy drink. Ha. I think I got my sodiums in for the day just from that one cup of pickle juice. But I won't deny, I enjoyed that. (pop music) (mumbling) Sardine grilled, scorpion fried. (mumbling) - [Marc] Hamsi grilled. - [Man] Okay. and also the. Ying (foreign language) We walked through the market that was very enjoyable. And then we came across the street to a different neighborhood. And we are now sitting called Balikci Lokantasi. And this restaurant After walking through the market and seeing that selection of seafood I wanted to eat seafood so badly, so we're at the restaurant now. And I ordered some anchovies. To begin with, we have this There is parsley on here, there's lettuce, there's cucumbers and carrots and tomatoes and, I'm gonna squeeze on the lemon. Just let me start with Mmm. There's arugula down there too. Oh, that's nice. I absolutely love the It just, it gives salad an extra flavor that is so good. Wow, that smells incredibly good. This is a dish that I really wanted to try at this restaurant. There are cubes of fish and it came in this, I think it's a clay a clay little vessel. It came just bubbling over. The aroma of this is all those onions. You can smell like an herb, And there are tomatoes Wow, this is just amazingly amazingly smelling. Oh, there's even some mushrooms in here. Okay, I'm just gonna take Mm-hmm. That is really hot. And incredibly good. That's almost like lava, But that is wow, that's unbelievable. Oh, that's so good. It's salty. It's, I think that's is that all butter? Let me just see. I think that might all be oil, or butter. But it just provides an You can taste the, maybe a little bit of black pepper in there. You can taste the herb in there. The tomatoes, the caramelized onions. The onions are a little bit sweet. Wow. That is remarkable. I think it would be good with a And the fish itself is also really good. It's very soft. But not like starchy or mushy. That is superb. Get some bread go ahead and dip into With that lemon. And those onions. Those onions are insane. Okay. This is one of the best dishes And also, the other dish that I was really looking forward to, and I'm glad I have a chance to try which are anchovies. And I got the grilled version. Looks like they kind of And maybe there's a very light breading or batter on them, before being fried. Or these are grilled, yeah. And then they sprinkle and some, I think it's And, I'm just gonna try Put this down on my plate. Oh yeah. Anchovies are a beautiful thing. Mmm. Has just a very faint bitter taste to it. But then they're really They have a little bit And then just a very light Anchovies are a wonderful They also dished us this side plate and I think this is the maybe this is roasted chilies in tomatoes, I'm not totally sure. And then, I'm not sure what that is. I'll try this thing, which I'm not sure of what it is first. It doesn't really have a smell at all. Ohh. I think that's eggplant. Roasted eggplant. And then this one, I've had so far being in Turkey. And it is marvelous. I think it is red chili. It's a little bit sour. And there's like a, I parsley flavor. I'm honestly not sure if this is oil, like olive oil, or butter. But it is so good. Now I'm just trying to of those herbs and onions. And also the garlic in here. That's so good. This was one of my entire trip to Istanbul. Wow, that was good. I just paid, and we were about to leave but then they gave us a to try, so that is very kind of him. I don't know the name of this, but I think I've had versions of it. I think it's semolina. And then served with bananas. Let me taste a bit of this with a banana. Mmm. Yeah, I think that is semolina. It has a grainy texture. A little bit of a honey like sweetness. And with that banana, it very well. If you eat that together, In a different shape. Ahhh. Oh yeah. Always good to finish a meal with tea. That was an amazingly good meal. The staff and the owner and the waiters, they're all really nice And it's in kind of a really quiet street. Very close to Kadikoy Market. I found that restaurant Foursquare search in this area. And I wanted to find which are those anchovies. The anchovies were good. But that black sea salmon turned out to be the best dishes, maybe the in Istanbul. That was amazing. (pop music) We're getting back on the boat heading back to the other side back to Europe. (pop music) And I'm not really sure the boat, it was free, I'm not sure if it's just today or if we got on the free boat. I don't know, but it was free, both times. We decided to take a We're now in the vicinity of Galata Tower. (world music) We have come to the base of Istakal Street and there's one thing we just got to do. I'm gonna pass the camera to Ying and I'm gonna be the victim. (world music) You want vanilla or chocolate? - Vanilla, chocolate, lemon. - [Ying] Vanilla. - Vanilla please. - Vanilla please. (singing) - He's so fast, I don't (foreign language) (singing) (laughing) (singing) (laughing) - Taste. - Mmm. - Taste. (laughing) I'm not totally sure, Even though you see the out the ice cream and when you're actually the victim of it (laughs) you really don't They're so fast. And, it's pretty awesome. It's such a sticky ice cream. I got a few licks of ice cream when we was dishing it out to me. But let me taste it really now. (drumming) Mmm. Yeah, it's such a sticky it has some elasticity to it. (singing) Whoa. Yeah, it's so sticky, Wow. (laughs) - Yay. (kissing) (laughs) - (laughs) Thank you. Thank you. Every time I'm walking past and I see somebody orders you always see them getting played with. And so you think you know but they fool you every single time. (laughs) (foreign language) How's the ice cream? - Ay, it's good. - Yeah, it's a really sticky ice cream. It almost has like a a mozzarella cheese, but It's almost a mozzarella cheese flavor. And a little bit of an Or some serious can play with it so much. (pop music) This is the restaurant we Hello. - Are you Marc? - How are you? - [Marc] How are you? - Fine, thank you. - [Marc] Did David? - Yeah. - He send me a message. - [Marc] Okay. (laughs) - And also some pictures. - [Marc] Okay. - This way. - Thank you very much. Hello. Oh yes, he said this is the best for the kabob. (pop music) I am sitting here bar side, watching him grill the meat. And the smoke coming off and just the expertise is incredible. For the kabob, he mixed the right there before he And then he put it onto the sword and then stuck it straight This is an incredible experience. This restaurant is And this is a style of where they have, it's in the center of the restaurant. And then there's this like metal chimney which goes up through the roof. And that is the centerpiece and that's where all the meat goes down. That's where all the meat is grilled. And that, it's almost like up all this smoke, and It keeps the fire so stoked and so hot as it grills the meat. We got a lamb kabob. We got some chicken. We're gonna get some lamb chops, as well. And then also he roasted Look at that, you can actually still see all of the spices mixed in. There's maybe that's some parsley. You can see the little I have to begin with a kabob. And I am just gonna go Wow. Look at how tender that is. Oh, it's so tender, it in your fork. Oh wow. Oh my goodness. That's absurd. Oh, that is that is unbelievably flavorful. Oh, it's salty. You can taste the lamb Oh, and that like extra smokey fire it just gives it like this incredible like depth of smoke embedded I have had kabobs before, but I have never had a kabob like that. For my next bite, I'll And then break off a piece of a kabob. It's so tender. And it definitely has a because it is so just packed with flavor and juicy. And then I'm gonna add and sumac. That is meat sensation. Next I'm gonna try this eggplant salad. Roasted eggplant. I'll take some of that bread. And just scoop, scoop a bit of this up. Mmm. That is fantastic too. Extremely creamy. And I think there is some I think that's, could that all be parsley? And then tomatoes. Ah, this is beautiful. I think that's a balsamic and olive oil dressing. But really like densely flavorful. And then, diced up tomatoes. And I think that's parsley. I'm gonna move a chili, one of these roasted chilies over my plate. Oh. And also one of these scorched tomatoes. Open up this. I really love these fire-roasted I just got to have a piece of that chili. That fire-roasted flavor they're soft on the inside and have that skin, that like burned skin. Oh, that's very like crackery. Mmm. Yeah, that's like a a very paper thin almost cracker like crispy. And then I think it's topped with dried chili flakes. Or maybe a chili paste. And some kind of herb, maybe This restaurant is known for their kabobs but I think they are most well known for their lamb chops. So the lamb chops have arrived and these are fresh off the Oh these are, I can't wait. I can't wait. Ohh yes. Oh, look at that, get a Oh yeah. That is remarkable. Wow. That is impressively good. Oh, I don't even barely it's, oh wow. You can taste the pastures. You can taste the pastures. Maybe with some onions on this next bite. Set this down. And I think that is a little layer of fat on the edge there. And I will these are some, it's definitely expertly grilled and seasoned. But at the same time, this is some very good quality lamb. Yeah. Wow. That is a a very a lamb chop that This is Ying's position. Ying being (mumbling). (foreign language) Ending our meal with some watermelon and maybe honeydew melon. Mmm. Nothing like juicy sweet watermelon. After such a a meaty, salty, marvelous feast. That was not only one of the more incredible that was just an That food was so good, that just, mind blowingly delicious. Special thank you to in that restaurant. That was fantastic. And also to Mr. David Dudi, Nama, and Honuman, thank you That was just another just in Istanbul. And actually today, we have had three This has just been a, this is actually our going to the airport and So it is it was just an absolute joyful last full day in Istanbul. And I'm gonna, Istanbul. (shouting) (laughs) Some great people and so I'm gonna end the video Thank you all for watching today's video. Please remember to give it a And leave a comment below, for lots more food and travel videos. And, thank you again for watching. (upbeat music)