The North Atlantic Treaty Organization - short NATO - in the world. At the release of this video, it has And soon, Sweden will likely join as well as its' change their mind. The core strength of NATO which states that &quot;an armed attack against one or against them all&quot;. But what if sometimes it isn't? has geographic limits which leave quite a without its' protection, including an entire of the NATO treaty, which specifies that in attack on a member state must happen within includes all member territories in North America Asian part, as well as all Islands belonging to The treaty vaguely calls this the &quot;North leave out some notable territories belonging to Spain, the United States and the Netherlands, which to varying degrees. But why do these limitations be changed? More about that after a quick word A free online PVP strategy game which allows you Forget Article 5, because all you need to do to PC or mobile device! With that, you can declare war 128 other players in realtime games that can take you to build up your nation's army with tanks, jets end of which you may end up taking over the world. beat all your enemies - and believe me you will have even going to help you with world domination: can get 13,000 gold and one month of premium will also help this channel out. But remember, to Conflict of Nations for sponsoring this video it was the intention of most founding members to mission: containing the Soviet Union and the spread several founding members still had colonial and the idea of getting dragged into each most of them. And so, article 6 was put in place But to also allow for flexibility, the wording of Article 6 doesn't define what North America or Europe border for Island territories with the so-called latitude where the sun can directly be above a number of member territories without Article 5 Most of them are so-called &quot;overseas territories&quot;, history of some NATO members. This of course few Islands below the Tropic of Cancer. The fact that was demonstrated in 1982, when Argentina began Falkland Islands, or how the Argentinians call Although the UK received material including the United States, NATO as a whole was on their own. The Netherlands are also in a very Caribbean below the the Tropic of Cancer. As well around the world and even a large chunk of According to the wording of article 6, all these protections. What's interesting about the French protections for an area of France that isn't Back when the NATO treaty was made, Paris France proper instead of a colonial possession, And so, France successfully lobbied for the French However, the Algerians eventually achieved being a part of France, which made the section may still be relevant for a different member of France, Spain doesn't have Islands which are below Islands - including the further away Canary Islands, everything Spain owns. It's also in possession of and Velez de la Gomera. These territories became part subject to a serious territorial dispute with history which is a story for another time, but dispute with Morocco very seriously and see it as In 2002, Morocco briefly occupied an uninhabited While this crisis luckily didn't last long and the dispute has serious potential for escalation. territories are protected by NATO's Article 5 is say the least, because they are not in Europe and Article 5 protection here would be a nightmare for to try to take these territories by force without provisions on the French Departments of Algeria since in both cases we have a European NATO not considered colonies. But this interpretation have tried to get written guarantees for these Spain brought up the topic again during the Madrid which underlined the alliance's commitment but are Spain's North African territories also When NATO's General Secretary Jens Stoltenberg was further article 5 is ultimately a political decision that room for interpretation and allows NATO members of a Moroccan attack on Spain's North African a very close relationship with Morocco and is even over the disputed Western Sahara, which very few Moroccan conflict would therefore present a real happen in such a scenario. Speaking of the United outside the geographic limits defined by article 6, Hawaii. Despite this, you will have a hard time about this. Why? Because the United States is by the world, meaning Washington can easily provide But does this mean that, for instance, Kazakhstan secure sunny beaches and access to the world's The answer is complicated. Article 5 is the most that using it could completely change the world resort option reserved for emergencies only, NATO history after... uh, after... the, uh... event. This is a political decision and not an automatic process. will within the alliance. That means that even North Atlantic area, the alliance members could best course of action and would instead resort to on NATO members would occur on the blurry edges the political will of NATO that decides. Should with majestic moustaches, it's hard to imagine that in such a case, if so desired by Washington. members with edge-case territories, because they the table. Should the Spanish-Moroccan conflict North African territories should be protected by of some NATO members with Morocco, like the US and to get everyone on board with this. Especially, be made for why Spain's territories should All this begs the question: Could the geographic to ensure the protection of virtually all the know it could be changed, because it happened the first and only time to explicitly include all joined NATO. So, the wording could theoretically be there is no political will to do so. Firstly, these for not getting involved in difficult situations. Russia in Eastern Europe - and for this purpose, at least for now. Nonetheless, there have been some may become open to the idea of changing the are currently focused on Eastern Europe, many will ultimately shift towards the Asia-Pacific. the United States and China over issues like Taiwan are becoming more and more serious. And But we may get an idea when we look at the officials from Australia, New Zealand, Japan and mutual security cooperations with NATO. While summits is not that unusual, it is indicative strengthening the security dialogue in these that are to varying degrees involved in building a to contain China in the Asia-Pacific. And US and China, it's possible that NATO members of the treaty as a whole. But for the foreseeable occur. Therefore, the geographic limits of NATO you should prepare for the inevitable. (Advertisement) Thanks to remember to check out the link in the description (End of Advertisement). Your support is really valuable! Thanks