- I searched the internet for the most unbelievable - I don't believe it. - Like this clip and if Chandler guesses which multiple choice happens But if he guesses - Oh no, we don't like that one. - Oh, this is that &quot;MW 2&quot; mission. Don't even worry about it. - Does A, a snowmobile fall through snow? Does he get attacked by a grizzly bear? Does a snowmobile crash - I mean, the most logical - Okay. I was thinking out loud. - Whoa. - Oh, oh! - I didn't even know that grizzly bears existed there. Bro, get away from that bear. - He's like &quot;Hey, come on - I did it. - The correct answer was in fact B. - Woo. Dun, dun, dun, dun, ah, ah, ah Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah - Which means you just won $1,000. Let's see if you can - Would you like me to - It would be an honor. - So we have a woman Does a shark jump out of the water? Does a dolphin retrieve her phone or does someone push her in? Also, I'm bald now. - I'm gonna go three. - He thinks a guy pushes her in. Let's find out. - You seem to be- - Ah! - The dolphin returns her phone. - Don't do it. - And you- How does a dolphin do that? - All of it's gone? - There might be a chance you so you should probably try really hard. - Yeah, would I have to add that to my other money that I owe? - So we have some cars doing some racing. - I like racing. - Oh, I've seen this race before. I know exactly what happens. - Does a car drive into the audience, explode or do two cars Which is the most unbelievable? - Channel your inner - It's not working. It usually works. Audience? Ugh. That one's what I would have said. - This is &quot;Reacts.&quot; What do we want to react to? - Explosions. - No! - Ah! Two cars on top of each other? - Oh my god. - You're only getting 500 for this one. - Oh, that's actually- - Look at that. - You've gotta think from the standpoint, we want insane clips. - YouTube-friendly too. - He's like &quot;Yeah, you - Killing all the audience. - So this is a peaceful shoreline, pause. Does the bird steal the camera? Does a massive tsunami form or is there an underwater explosion? - These are all very - And which is the most unbelievable? - The massive tsunami. - I'm pretty sure the Oh wait, it's the explosion. - Oh wait. - That's both. - That's an explosion. - But it can cause a tsunami. - Wait, what? - It caused it even - What is this? Withdrawal. - But you can't even see the money now. - Playing the next clip. - Who cares? It's playing, look, look. Where's the car? - Does the car flip over the guardrail, get hit by a moose or - I wanna see a moose but I'm gonna go forest. - I really hope it's a moose, Oh, that looks like the forest falling. - Back up, back up, back up. The whole forest, the entire forest. We got money, yes we do We got money, how about you Just me, not you - No. - Now before I play this next clip, he thick. - He thick. - You're a golf expert, - Does he hit a hole in one? Does the ball land in water - That doesn't look like where you would be able to hit - He's not on the tee box. - And he looks like he's by the water. But you guys could be tricking me 'cause that's the most obvious answer. - You know what they say, the - Ball hits in the water. Oh. - Wait, but does he - He wasn't on the tee box, It has to be at least a two shot. It can't be a hole in one. Wait. That's not a true hole in one. - We have an issue here. Since he wasn't at the start, It did hit water. Even though this says hole in one, it lied and we're gonna pay you for our mistake. - Let's go! - I know golf. - Everyone comment telling Walt he's dumb. - Because that's not a hole in one. The hole in one starts at the tee box. - Gotta play more golf, Walt. - So we got some cute little Does an orca eat the strained penguin? Does a penguin jump to safety or do the other penguins - I know the penguins aren't - Penguins do not care. - The orca, what do they eat? Do they eat penguins? Number two. Oh, that's a huge gap, what am I thinking? - Oh wait, no. - He knows what he's doing. - He notices, he notices. - Look at all of his - I told you. - I told you, penguins, oh! - Slide in there, big dog. It's time to do the money dance The money dance, the money dance It's time to do the money dance The money dance is what he's doing - There's kids playing soccer. Does he frontflip to score a goal? Does a little kid to run on Player and goalie collide - Kids can't do frontflips, like right? - Quote that, put that on your wall. &quot;Kids can't do frontflips, right?&quot; That's Chandler. - Because you got made fun - Kid runs on the field and makes a save. Let's see what happens. - No. - You said kids were playing, - You know the quote that's It's incorrect. - Just tear it off and while we're gonna tear $1,000 from - Whoa. - We have a runaway cylinder. Does this water tank nearly miss a person, crush a random car or - Yeah, that's way too - Pretty clearly, it - It pretty clearly Just kidding. - Okay, now I don't know what's happening. - Oh! - Winner. - I thought for sure it was We are doing the money dance 'Cause Chandler won $1,0000 Money dance. - What is this? - You know what's gonna happen here. - Does a man get attacked by a shark, find a sunken ship, hit - He hits the cliff while falling, right? No wait, that was that other clip, my bad. - Yeah, wrong clip, okay, no more help. - Finds a sunken ship. - If he was gonna get attacked by a shark. - Yeah. - Wow, Chandler. - Yeah, he totally doesn't just jump in the water and see a - Oh. - That's crazy. What are these shark-infested waters people are jumping into? What's going on here? - Does a whale knock the Does a whale yeet a dolphin mid-air or does a sea plane land - This is hard, this is hard. - My bald head's itchy. - Wait, should you rub - They must not see it. - You gotta pay more for that. - It's the passengers. - I am surprised you didn't, oh! - Whoa. Why is that so funny? - My gut answered it right. The baldness betrayed me. - Chandler's down to three K. - That's a fat whale. That looks like a bus just- - That's an orca. - We got &quot;Ninja American Warrior.&quot; He's about to run, does he Frontflip off the final platform, almost fall into water but saves himself? - He's gotta smash his face. - A has been chosen. Chandler thinks he'll smash his face. Oh. - Well, I didn't know he was athletic. - Bro, in that first clip, - That pause was a beautiful pause. - Okay, you have to have seen this clip. - I've never seen this. super viral on Twitter. Seagull fight breaks out, seagull flies away at the camera, seagull screams like a human? - It's gotta be a fight. - Is that your final answer? - It's gotta be a fight after they fly away with the camera, right? - Final answer? - Number two? - It better be. - You haven't seen this? - Bro, he takes it and just- - &quot;See ya.&quot; He's vlogging. He's like &quot;Guys, welcome - And they're trying to - Dude, what a boss bird. - That bird has a really - Pause. Did Chris just hit on a bird? - It's a pretty bird. - And now the final would you like to do double or nothing with your $3,000 for the final clip? - Double or nothing. - So if you get this wrong, you walk away with nothing. - All right, let's see. - That's it? - I mean, he's way readier than this guy. - $6,000 on the line, who wins? - I don't know. Three. One, two, three, right. - Okay, he found a pair Chandler picked the right person. Oh wait, there's a third - How you gonna do that? If it hits it again. It's right, that's one, two, three, four. That's what I just got. - All right, so you're locking in right? - Yeah, I'll be sad if it's a perfect tie. Don't you dare finish at the same time. - Oh no. - What? Wait, right won. - Oh, oh! You just won $6,000 because that guy- - That dice! You see that? - More importantly, you What are you gonna spend it on? - My dog.