BRIAN WONG: Next to me I've got two new nearly 1,000 horsepower and between them and not a Welcome to the new world. Both of these trucks got and we're going to with you, from top to tailgate, and from eyelid to exhaust tip. You get the picture. So we've got the Ram 1,500 and the Ford F-150 And both of these come that each lineup has to offer. These two high end trucks all the bells and whistles. And guess what? You can't get a V8 Ford will still sell you a five and below. And the Ram, they don't It's just a straight six turbo Under the hood, feature six cylinder twin but that's about where For the Ford, we've got a hybrid twin turbocharged V6 with a both of which are mounted so all that power gets While on the Ram, we have of the twin straight six as opposed And this engine delivers though less torque than the And I've got news for you. They're both better than this. In addition to this able to wrangle a with the standard of them on our test track put up numbers. The Tradesman with straight six turbo, that to 60 miles an hour. And here in the Tungsten engine, 4.7 seconds to 60 miles Seeing that amount of metal just really impressive. Now for some perspective, we had a Ram 1500 in with that you all say made the 0 to 60 mile an So that means that even if version of the you're still getting to And that is a massive, massive of these new engines. On the rear suspension, the over suspension. And while that might when it comes to things on the street, it pretty much better than any There's a connectedness and the rear suspension, feel like you're It sort of drives like And the ride quality is above what you're going to Toyota. Now, if you want to more from driving this be sure to check out our go a little bit more in depth. But the gist of it is it's and we'll see what Unlike the Ram, this This is one that we've had because it's the same one that's hybrid. We like it in that truck. We also really like You're not going to get quite that you're going to This was only 5.9 seconds to But still, for a full size And the good news is Ford has made it easier to Now you can get this that you would pay for the So you're basically getting You're getting getting better fuel economy. It's kind of a no And of course, in you're going to get better fuel So that only has an per gallon combined. And the Ram also While here in the F-150 and gets 23 MPG combined. Better in both ways. So while the Rams had it comes to going, feels better when it It had a shorter And the other thing that Ford is the blend between and the physical brakes. It's very difficult one starts and the other ends. The Ram has excellent ride And the Ford, not quite as good. That's not to say feels a bit more like a truck. So as you're driving things are a bit and it just doesn't I think that the of handling feel between but the Ram is definitely When it comes to the When it comes to the And that's why both in the how it drives category. While we're behind seems like a good place to kick Because for us, include in-cabin technology, it Now, these two trucks it comes to safety features. Both of them got adaptive got lane keep assist, surround view cameras, But what both trucks also have are level two plus hands And that means that when essentially, with on ramps able to go hands free. Both of these systems They each cover around 150,000 in the US, and they'll execute prompted by the driver But Ram's hands seems to work a little better It has fewer random require you to retake and it does a better job There were a few occasions where into another lane, and that's a with your hands off the wheel. So far, we've highlighted between these systems, but that the Ram has that we and that is price. So for BlueCruise, 90 days of promotional period, going to have to pay for a And that costs $2,100 for In the Ram, though, you get And Ram says they're a subscription after announced how much it costs. And that's just a when it comes to these systems. And it's also worth is kind of the only SuperCruise, GM's also charges a subscription. And that new Mercedes that's going to be So if you're looking it's going to cost you Check out this screen and even this screen over here. And you look at all of and you would think that the Ram when it comes to But that's really not the case. And that's because this system And that is that it's Uconnect used to of these infotainment systems, has passed it by, and Uconnect in a while. And as such, here even though is bigger than what you're going It's difficult to use. The menu structure You are going to and wireless Android Great. However, if you, like we get boxed into a and Android auto only takes of this screen. So it's a really tiny and poor Now, there are a few things when it comes to technology. The first is that the system is quite good. And the second is that options than the Ford does. So down here you get not but six different USB ports. And you even get a pad that can charge two That's a lot more going to get in the Ford. Here in the Ford, And that's smaller than what but it's much easier to use. The menu structure is Everything makes it And for Android Auto, a as it takes up the whole Another thing we like, always and hitting this. You get this nice surround And as you can see it's much higher resolution and And the Ram was kind Here it takes up And of course, you get a variety fits your fancy as well. The nice thing is that in Ford F-150 you get, they're all screen up here. And that's much going to get in the Those things come with a feels very tiny in comparison. So that's another advantage although you don't get and charging options. Just a single wireless charging two more in the center console. You can probably plug in but overall, technology in and that's why it ends up in this category with an And I'm here to tell you comfortable seats. Tons of adjustments. I think in this Tungsten to adjust these front seats. They also have massage features, the front and second row. And the luxuriousness Just look at this interior. This is the only you're going to get It is something called So you have the sea salt here, And everywhere you everything just really From this Tungsten badge with on the center console, this Whether or not that you you get it and it's real. It's not even a Just leather everywhere This is real American in a full size pickup truck. The nice thing about these for families especially is here in the back seat. So in both the Ford and here tons of head room. Really really big cabins. Easy to load in a car seat, but them because these trucks are even though a lot Up here you've got these serve as upper latch anchors. So even though there's a lot getting it fully installed, not We've moved from the into something less luxurious, here in the Ford. So the Tungsten is the and this King Ranch is that you're going It actually starts at the And then on the can add on this Platinum makes it even more luxurious. However, even with the Ram is still above and overall quality. Ram still makes the best of anyone in the industry. And Ford just doesn't Although this King Ranch you're going to pay And for that money, you're still Plenty of leather around, And the way that the is that when you get down it actually generally offers going to get in the Ram. And that is how these two end because the lower are higher, even though are higher still. The back seat here is spacious like you're And we're also going is the one thing the difference between the So if we look at armrest for the back seat, it's got quilted leather, it's got two nice cup holders to help keep things in place. And here in the Ford, the is this thing. Now, for cargo and that encompasses a lot We're going to talk We're going to talk the beds. And we're, of course, going to as well. When it comes to interior do quite well. In the Ram, it does where it has this center console And that has the cup holders But you can move it back to or you can move it forward to Plenty of room for a small can also hide larger items in In the Ford, you don't of flexibility, but you still console bin, big enough to fit And the other cool is you can fold down the gear like surface, which to put a laptop for to eat fast food if you're me. It's when we get to that these two trucks start to diverge. Now, the Ram, a normal storage but in the Ford, it's It has a larger storage but it's also one which turns it into You can also take that bin, on the floor. And that gives you a and a really wide where the rear seat would be. Both of these trucks have Now, here in the to get the Ram box, which solution unique to this brand. And what it provides is that can double as coolers at the bottom or to store power tools that you don't want Now, the downside it does intrude a So it is skinnier than what You can still fit here, but nothing The way that the Ford has a larger bed that's has Pro Power Onboard. Now, with the hybrid going to get more output up to 7.2 kilowatts, which is Here in the Ram, you also get much, much lower. Now, if we're going to and towing figures for the edge goes to the Ford. It's got a bit more payload But the only real is to actually tow with them. Towing starts before with hooking up the trailers. The Ram has a pretty with moving guidelines to help But the Ford goes to the next Assist where all you the trailer hitch in and the system takes It makes hooking by yourself an The opposite is true when Both trucks have knobs to help But in this case, setting is a lot more to put stickers on the and then back it up requires a large parking lot, we had to use for this test. We've tried to set the system it still wasn't And the Ram, it will auto of the trailer if you just And once you do, you Now, once you do I do have to say that the I've tested it in other down to the Ranger, and and it's more intuitive. The Ram system, it but it's got this tiny knob, has a nice, big, chunky knob And the Ram system so it takes more practice Now let's see how these Once again, this engine So much power, so much torque. Right now I'm getting and this engine is of the entire experience. Just really, really easy power I'm going about 60 sitting just at about 2,500 RPM. And the engine is just chilling. The trailer that we're towing You can definitely tell on the back end of the truck. It just gets a little But the cabin remains It's not anything that is discomfort. It's just you know some extra weight around, a bad thing. But again, there are that are a bit more a load attached to the back. These straight six turbo from the high output have been really impressive in And my first drive throughout testing the I really don't miss One feature that our Ram does does not is an auto So once we got the the suspension relevels itself, even with the trailer attached. We're going to see how But here in the is it still feels pretty flat If there's one thing I don't it's the brakes. The brake pedal is a little And then when you're that just gets I just wish it was a little bit You do get quite a bit when you're trying to stop So now it's time And the first thing that you not quite as powerful as Now, that's not to say that because it's actually moving Getting on the highway was Also plenty of power for that. But this powertrain is just and you can feel that under load with this One thing, though, this truck doesn't have an auto have on the Ram. And I thought that affect the sort of but actually, while towing, that There's a bit less bounce as The steering is It's tracking super straight. And yeah, I would while you're towing, the Ford Overall when it think that both of these The Ford was a little but then the Ram has where it can auto detect and how much it weighs. And again, the Ram's but then the Ford stability So we have some for each in this category. But overall, I would say you'll pretty much be Now, overall in this category, does go slightly to has those higher max payload than the Ram does. So it got a little bit better But I would say that if like an Airstream trailer like smaller than that, both of it comes to towing. So that's why in encompassed both storage the Ford got an 8.5 So after all of driving, towing, and testing, It's time to share the for both of these trucks. And for the Ford and the While that might feel like a for these two big hairy American that I stop to think about it, And that's because each truck The Ford is the truck that Its rear suspension less comfortable on the when we were towing. And it's got great features like help you power any jobsite. So this is clearly the to pick up a truck for work. But where the Ram is good It's more comfortable. It's got that great interior and that engine, I just It's much quicker to 60 and it on the road as well. And I think it looks For me, the choice is easy. If I was going to take one home, I love that interior. I love how comfortable and I also love a giant truck that can go in just 4.7 seconds, and But in the end, I don't going to miss the V8. [MUSIC PLAYING]