Martial excellence under king Ashurbanipal reputation. However, even further into the ancient past, and dominance through a completely different Welcome to our video on the merchants of Old may have led to the rise of one of the bronze Bronze Age history is often shrouded in time, loyal partner MagellanTV is here to help you We have been enjoying our MagellanTV subscription MagellanTV is a documentary streaming service, among them hundreds of historical documentaries. If you are looking for more Bronze Age history, Egypt talks about the mysterious history of Inventions is perfect if you want to learn You can watch both anytime, anywhere, on your is compatible with most devices. Our viewers can now take advantage of an exclusive gives you an entire year for less than $3.50 Every documentary I've watched has been worth in the MagellanTV collection! This offer is available to the returning users, Simply click on the link in the description today. Support our channel and do that at try.magellantv.com/kingsandgenerals. Start your free trial today! After 300 years of Akkadian and Gutian dominance, with the Third Dynasty of Ur. It was marked by brilliant advances in scribal military, and the flourishing of literature. The urban expansion led to Ur's peak population the world had ever seen. Unfortunately, a combination of climate change, to the empire's destruction. The climactic blow landed in 2004 BC when the twilight of a new age, during which independent and trade. The decentralisation prevailed across the lands of western Iran, and, crucially for One of the small polities which first matured on the western bank of the Tigris. Ashur at the dawn of the second millennium the highly populated cities of Sumer did not The city and the small amount of territory greatly productive zone. Rainfed farming was not capable of sustaining was suited for the herding of cattle . Nevertheless, was an important 'nodal point' in trade Lacking a massive population and a strong their commercial potential and geographic Texts discovered at the city of Ebla , suggest vast quantities of tin as early as the 24th To bolster the markets of Ashur even more, Erishum gave Sumerian traders tax exemptions privileges. One consequence of this economic boom was A particularly promising destination for Ashur's Most of the source material illustrating what at an archaeological site around 1,200 kilometers known as Kanesh during the Bronze Age. At the turn of the twentieth century, cuneiform market, artifacts written in the Old Assyrian This alerted archaeologists to the existence being extracted, and they quickly set out A breakthrough was made by Czech 'hittitologist' the origin point of the tablets to a small at Kultepe, central Turkey. Kultepe rises to a height of 20 meters above With a diameter of just over 500 meters, the in the surrounding landscape. In reality, the smaller site discovered by whose homeland was the faraway city of Ashur. It was a separate 'Assyrian quarter' to circular city with a palace which was, in Since 1948, when thorough excavation began, site and two peripheral ones have given us particular, about the relationship that the peoples. From the Kanesh documentation, we know that Anatolia was dominated by several Hatti kingdoms inhabited just one. Bordering Kanesh, for example, were Burushattum The territories and spheres of influence which determined with such patchy and unreliable However, we can be more certain about their Each had a capital city and an area of surrounding rubaum, nominally controlled. This overall ruler was a broadly monarch-like over semi-autonomous peripheral settlements, guest enclaves among them. Most or all of these intercity mercantile even possessing a kind of collective hierarchy, sitting at the very top. Other prominent cities of Anatolia were also townships may have played host to a so-called waystations. An extraordinary exchange of communication city's local karum gives us an example of When this regional ruler notified the karum throne, he sent an offer of a renewed trade However, the reply this rubaum received shows age Anatolian society often had to be reminded and procedures that had to be followed even In this case, it seems that the local Wahsusana their local strongman. "We answered: 'The karum at Kanesh is We shall write so that they may write either Two men from the land will come to you and The eagerness of Hatti rulers to engage with supplied by the Assyrians - a mysterious metal Although it was once argued that this enigmatic almost certain that it was tin - the Bronze Relatively rare and only available in certain the eponymous metal of the era which was used - weaponry, kitchenware, farming equipment, Lacking an indigenous source of the priceless in Wahsusana and Kanesh were instead forced The most feasible method for the Anatolians who in turn probably obtained it from the On top of this, traders from Ashur also supplied Crafted in pieces which were each around four were produced in Assyria itself, while most for its fine quality of fabric. The Mesopotamian civilisations had what might their textiles, part of which has been passed This document was sent by a high-ranking Assyrian a weaving woman in Ashur itself known as Waqartum, which you sent me - keep producing similar and I will send you half a mina of silver Let them comb one side of the textile, they Compared with the previous textile which you each piece, but keep it thin! The other side one should comb only slightly. If it is still hairy, one should shear it While Bronze Age Anatolia was indeed deficient did have a number of natural resources to after all, weren't there out of goodhearted They wanted a healthy profit out of the deal The region which would eventually become Roman later as a land of great wealth, fruitful from it. Assyrian merchants were keen enough to notice silver and gold reserves. Such precious resources would be obtained back to Ashur as a type of ancient remittance. Booming commerce such as that between the rise to financial institutions which serviced We know, for example, that a system of credit the region. However, with interest rates ranging from might best be compared to modern day loan enterprising individuals. Sometimes, the debtors were forced to sell their way out of the financial hole. Tensions between creditors and borrowers seem tension within the Anatolian kingdoms. When this became especially bad, rubaums repeatedly all debts and resetting from a blank slate. As a precautionary measure, creditors would part of the loan, even if the rubaum voided In the case of a family who owed grain and states - "If the king cancels the obligation The surviving texts also inform us as to how and how the Hatti responded and interacted Operations were overseen by an arm of the or 'House of the City'. This institution seems to have been a powerful who had a hand in almost all of the important This included export taxes and diplomacy with colonies. However, the distance between Ashur and the was in the hands of wealthy Assyrian entrepreneurs How these private investor-like figures ran He could maintain a purely family-focused from Ashur whilst sending younger male relatives Or he could form a cabal or consortium with monopolies over certain goods. Another relatively common option for the ummeanum Seeing better prospects for commerce and livelihood might emigrate there, creating households, local Hatti women. Whatever the specifics of each family and entrusted the business to an operations manager goods would be sold, where it would be sold The 'blue collar' employees of the Ashur-Anatolia personnel who were hired to ferry the merchandise Two-thirds of their year was spent as a commercial third - the winter, was their time off. The average trading caravan was made up of Cappadocian donkeys, each hauling an average The merchandise was placed in two sacks, one These so-called 'side packs' were not been sealed to ensure they weren't. However, there was also a smaller saddle pack as light snacks, animal fodder, private possessions On the surface, the effort appears to have 100% from the tin and 200% when textiles were As is the case in most commercial enterprises their business superiors were subject to constant - 5% on textiles here, 3% on tin there. Sometimes local rulers would even claim the before they were even taken to market. Royal palaces also had the only claim to extremely meteoric iron. In return for claiming such privileges, various privileges including promises of protection Because they took on all the risks and made traders understandably wanted to keep as much To this end, they quickly started finding local rulers from leeching their hard-earned A standard way of bypassing the taxman was on side roads, known to the Assyrians as 'harran track'. These backroads were less likely to be under and therefore could be used to avoid the arm However, there was a reason that such roads In part due to the lack of state control in with outlaws and brigands ready to plunder far worse. Going by alternate routes also meant moving water. Experienced Assyrian traders would share this countrymen who had to make the journey. A letter from a man named Buzazu to his business near Hurrama, advises such a course of action. He also advises another, more risky method possible: "Let the merchants bring all the town, or make packets of 10 to 15 minas each, under their loincloths. Only after they have safely delivered 1 talent the town." Such unorthodox methods of smuggling could for those employing them. Being caught by the agents of an Anatolian all goods in the caravan and even imprisonment However useful the Assyrian traders were to careful not to make enemies of their hosts In cases where merchants would violate agreements were quick to enact severe punishment on the Over the centuries, the wealth generated by gradually began intermingling with other factors area. The different kingdoms slowly developed a - where were the merchants travelling? Who had the right to exact tribute from them? If my neighbor has a monopoly over the trade The many routes, roads and paths used by the web of communications throughout Anatolia, kingdoms. This mixture of territorial aggrandizement, led to the intensification of conflict among The starkest example of this new era of warfare at the midpoint of the nineteenth-century king of Zalpa, which was probably a small The destruction of Kanesh decapitated the result, the people of Ashur ceased all operations later. The return to commerce was short-lived as 1750, when a mysterious King of Kussara Anitta, the Hatti world under his rule. This unprecedented regional centralisation that were not conducive to a profitable enterprise operate as they had done for centuries. By about 1,700BC, the merchant colonies were of the greatest Bronze Age empires - that More videos on the Bronze Age are on the way, the bell button to see the next video in the Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and