A mass production company for seafood located in Gangseo-gu, Busan, South Korea - 'Eunha Susan' Starting as a small shop in the Busan Jagalchi Market in 1970, A company with 55 years of history that has built the largest automated seafood processing process in Asia. It processes various seafood products and exports them to 30 countries around the world, It also sells various meal kits and finished products online. Norwegian salmon is also imported directly and processed into various forms. Floundfish sashimi is the most popular in Korea. Now, I will show you the live fish processing process of this place with a long history in the fishing industry. Large aquarium This is a place where seafood is stored in large quantities to process about 6~7 tons of live fish per day, 1,000 tons per year. Domestic farmed flatfish aquarium weighing over 1.7kg per fish You can also see the seawater filtration and oxygen supply system. Reduces fish stress by creating an environment similar to the ocean. Take flatfish out of the aquarium to work with. Weighing the basket The power of flatfish is amazing! (Flatter flapping) Ice compress This is a method to make live fish fall into a state of sleep without stress to obtain a chewy texture without hardness. This process must be done quickly to minimize stress. Move to the processing line Automated process line for flatfish fillet We completed the work of cutting the neck of a live flatfish with a knife and draining the blood, although we were unable to capture it on video Move the flatfish to the conveyor belt. High pressure water washing One by one they move on the rail. The worker arranges the flatfish neatly on the rail. This is the first automatic flatfish filleting machine developed by this company. Tail cutting Other than the intestines that come out when cutting the flatfish We follow the hygiene manual to ensure that there are no other foreign substances through daily machine washing. Head and gill cutting The cutting power of the automated saw is amazing! Cut off the head with a sharp cutter, and suck out the intestines with a suction cup right next to it. Removes the tail, head, and guts of a flatfish in 3 seconds. Speeds up to 3,000 fish per hour. Separates the top and bottom of a flatfish. The body splits into two in an instant. The worker arranges the fish skin-side down. Automatic Fish Skin Peeler In an instant, the machine removes the skin from the fish. Removed Fish Skin It only took 30 seconds to cut the tail and head of the flatfish and remove the skin. It is said that a long effort was made to develop an automated flatfish filleting process. The delicate entrails removal work is done by hand. Sterilization and washing work Hygienic using clean sterilized water. Flatfish sashimi preparation process Remove the center meat with a lot of bloody taste. Automatic fish slicing machine Place the cut flounder in a container for easy eating. Packaging wasabi, soy sauce, and chojang sauce together in a container. Sealing packaging machine Prevents microbial growth by injecting oxygen, carbon dioxide, and nitrogen into the container. This packaging method allows seafood to be distributed more freshly. Metal detector 'MAP nitrogen packaging method' Ice box packaging Salmon sashimi processing process We use salmon directly imported by air from Norway. Bulk fillet salmon with bones and blood vessels not yet removed. Washing and Sterilization First, remove the large spines in the center of the salmon. Removed salmon spines Irregular spines are removed by humans. Removing the blood vessels Removing the blood vessels from salmon reduces the weight, but also reduces the fishy smell, making it more delicious. The blood pressure meat that could not be removed by machine is removed once more with a knife. Clean! Washing and sterilization Individual vacuum packaging Absorbent paper that absorbs the moisture of the fish Salmon fillet type is placed whole in plastic. Vacuum packaging machine Align the plastic inlet. Metal detector Weight measurement and labeling Bulk packaging Pack 15kg in one box. Put ice in it to keep it fresh during transport. Processed salmon fillets can be easily made into sushi and rolls. It looks delicious..! flatfish sashimi How about a plate of fresh flounder sashimi produced through a fast and clean process? You can enjoy it as sashimi as well :) Easy, fast, and delicious fish dish!