ANISH KATTUKARAN: I'll give You don't need to teach a little child walking towards be concerned. Now, if you could take a camera that's important. And suddenly now your nest There's a child walking You should probably be That is really, really powerful SPEAKER: Welcome to podcast where we meet the people you love. Here's your host, Rachid Finge. RACHID FINGE: Today, we're Anish Kattukaran. He's a senior director for Google Home. SPEAKER: This is the RACHID FINGE: Anish, tell you saw the power of Gemini Home. What happened, and how ANISH KATTUKARAN: one of the leaders in things intelligence, essentially into the home. And we've done a pretty these narrow models good at doing specific things. So our thermostats today We've built these AI models good at figuring predicting how to make you most Our cameras are pretty good at animals, detecting packages. So over the last pretty good at building these really, really well. There was a point last year what if the camera could it sees and then the most important And that was the on how we could bring like cameras and thermostats. And we can talk about But that, to me, The idea that the camera without being told what means it's an immensely I'll give you a good You don't need to teach a human walking towards a swimming pool RACHID FINGE: Yeah. ANISH KATTUKARAN: Now, if and not have to teach it And suddenly, now your nest There's a child walking You should probably be That is really, really powerful. Now, we've seen that potential. We've seen the first And that's what we It was that moment to see some of these pieces all of our collective minds. And that's why we're so and bringing Gemini to the home. RACHID FINGE: So you're a senior for Google Home. It's your fourth What keeps you excited ANISH KATTUKARAN: The are now with this sort of where we are better have been over the last 5, 10 That, to me, is what keeps me which is the fact that, our like from our early has been take care of the around it. And we've had that we've leveraged to through a variety of different But I think we are probably to realize that vision and RACHID FINGE: So it's on the Made by Google podcast. I feel like every something brand new to tell us. So that tells me that is the name of the game Can you speak to that? ANISH KATTUKARAN: Change and we like the idea and one way that I think been on this journey, is about taking the that we've accumulated over by them, ensuring that them into this next generation also investing for the future. And so this year was foundational year for us. We roll back the curtain on earlier this year at Google I/O. So the goal there how can we untether with Home APIs that leverages What we wanted to empower any and all these amazing into their own So not just the developers but any developer. Whatever app you build, is to bridge the divide between the and we think the platform So you can see things I, as a developer, build Today, that's an entirely But with this that food delivery with your physical hey you know that when ready to drop off flash the lights so the driver knows And similarly, on the I can send you a to say, hey, guess what? Your food is about So even if you don't suddenly that food to go beyond just a digital that in with the physical. So we're really excited. The platform really that sort of foundational since then, we've had a lot So last month, we shared our TV Streamer, the successor and the Nest Learning to the original And then, today, got a lot of really, really and goodness to share, so we I'm pretty excited RACHID FINGE: Yeah, this because I feel we need to ANISH KATTUKARAN: Let's do it. RACHID FINGE: And maybe we So you mentioned the cameras be much smarter. You gave one example help warn me when something What are other examples to our nest cameras can be for example? ANISH KATTUKARAN: The thing is ensuring that your cameras that you and part of that is realizing is just able to interpret the that are most important that right level of information So that to us is the promise And that's going But that journey is Later this year, we're some of the first where you're going to be change in what you can So before, if we detect a particular person, every time we do that. What we're going to is being able to ask did my kids leave their I've got a party later today. I want to make sure So what's top of mind I want to know that my kids because then people can't park. And so you can do You can now do things like that. You could previously get alerts but say you've got expecting multiple care more about the FedEx that you're going to get. Well, you can ask, was there a or not? So that's where I mentioned to move away from specific can do one thing really well to and understanding is going And I'm really, the first steps of that coming RACHID FINGE: Let me make sure So you have an example Cam can send me more insightful notifications. But I can now also basically ask ANISH KATTUKARAN: That's right. So what we're actually we're starting with the naturally in the way that so you're being able to that I mentioned, and we're as well, and then using your natural language, And then, as we refine that, is being able to filter and start to populate the that matter most. RACHID FINGE: So there's even and I'm now referring to the I think is great for people an automation, but then understand how to do maybe a certain type of person and it seems like you're for most people. What is that feature, and how ANISH KATTUKARAN: Yeah, listen, I wear that badge But I also recognize that the So that's totally fair. That's the majority of my own With that being said, what we've been working to make Google Home one automation platforms. So over the course of we've added a tremendous I think our platforms over 100 different ways. You could connect and control from tons of tons You can do that in the Home app. You can do that So in general, we've made Now, that power today is pretty And so people who are fully already. In parallel, what seen this incredible growth Each device is getting smarter. But what's not is that you aren't getting that you add more devices. The promise is, I have and then I add a second and together, they than each individual device. That's not quite there yet. Now, home automation that's made to enable that. It's meant to make sure work together to either or to make your life safer Why is that not quite is that home automation Users want the benefit of doing that work. I'm comfortable doing that work, aren't. So for us, this Helped is really about and making it available whether you're an automation RACHID FINGE: So I have a I think I am just like you, and I think everything But then I'm like, should I make now Are there other ways where help me come up with to create that intelligence. ANISH KATTUKARAN: Absolutely. We obviously run tons of user right? And so the first was also very heavily which is that users want the That's one thing. I think the second thing that you're bringing up, which it's easier to get started. But if you don't know what know what's capable of, it's RACHID FINGE: That's me. ANISH KATTUKARAN: And that's helps to solve both So you can come in, and Every time the kids come back, and put them into the garage. Or, after the kids them to run the dishwasher. Great. So those are specific things. You know you're asking for. And then, Help Me Create when my camera that's sees the kids to generate a notification to remind them to Great. So you knew what you wanted. We were able to take that to create an automation. If you don't know what got 25 devices in Me Create can also deliver of what is possible. RACHID FINGE: Anish, There is a cat that [LAUGHS] ANISH KATTUKARAN: got a home automation that RACHID FINGE: I had [LAUGHS] ANISH KATTUKARAN: When I'm so the cat doesn't come in. RACHID FINGE: That'd be amazing. I might need you to have Amazing. Should we now talk about the which is the Google Assistant? That's one of the first talk to their home I think there are still that users have when it and wondering if Google tackling these challenges. How can we evolve the that we provide an even better in the smart home? ANISH KATTUKARAN: We've been For years, we've sort of been assistant for the we were like limited by what the could do. So Google Assistant has helped millions of And we're continuing the best sort of Google for everyone. I mentioned it earlier. With Gemini technology, we're point where we believe that vision and supercharge do in the home and reimagine do with just your voice. Part of that is we're that we make the assistant more experience. So you don't have to precisely to get the exact output. We think that's Just talk the way you talk and the assistant is able to stuff done. RACHID FINGE: I really can't I'm sure you're working flat And then, we, of mentioned at the beginning, We have a new version of and the Google TV Streamer, Maybe we can start What about the name. I think Chromecast has people recognize that name. It felt apparently the What was the thought ANISH KATTUKARAN: We've launched and sold over 100 worldwide since we first It's surreal to think that RACHID FINGE: Yeah. ANISH KATTUKARAN: And is that as the technology and streaming has actually what we've found is that the changed from back in 2013. So over time, what we've seen were trying to solve, it I need a simple way to or my tablet or my Just rewind with me. Imagine back to 2013. Smart TVs weren't a thing. RACHID FINGE: Yep, that's right. ANISH KATTUKARAN: Most and streaming was also So right now, today, we take and YouTube for granted. But it was very much and there was very much And so really, Chromecast that unlocked the ability Now, you fast forward quite the problem. Virtually, every TV that you a built-in smart TV, and you itself. So the user pain point that is that today, in 2024, a couple of things. They want a more unified and experience, and they want this And so that's why, for us, to rethink what the device So it's not just But with the Google actually a few The form factor changed. It went from a dongle that you to a box, beautiful under your TV on the mantle. And then the name change So it was actually And that set of anchored around the big shift to now 11 years later in 2024. RACHID FINGE: You Tell me more about think there are many and they are some version the Google TV Streamer is not. It looks distinctly different. Why does it look And were there playing into that? ANISH KATTUKARAN: One of the things when you see the devices, It's probably a We put a lot of thought into when we're actually So what you'll see is that, in general, in beautifully with most homes. It's sleek and stylish but Well, we did it we would try to that it could neatly and your media console, is that we wanted to make the wires in the back. So what the Google a number of different ports. You can hardwire ethernet, And so we wanted to make sure the back and hide behind. There's another big is, we wanted to add So what you'll see with is we've put things in. I mentioned the ethernet port but the other big one here is, So the Google TV Streamer Now, a key as you add these radios into the the last thing you want to into a closet, which then sort to begin with. So those were a number of the we were adding in We're adding in more power. There's more storage. There's more RAM, so the device change, all optimizing for RACHID FINGE: So I guess people is. But you also mentioned thread, What is it, and ANISH KATTUKARAN: Yeah, thread In some ways. You can think of it as, we've Think of thread as another And what it does is, that have very low power or to a controller. So a good example here It's a low-powered device, or Now, if you put a it would suck a lot of power. So thread is an you can still have that device. It can function It can operate with low latency I think for the most don't need to think The idea is that It is one of the backbones that devices in your home RACHID FINGE: Amazing. So it's also a little bit of Well, that was just one of were announced back in of course, the brand new looks gorgeous. Why would we need What's new compared to ANISH KATTUKARAN: Yeah, you It's been 12 years actually Thermostat launched. And that was, in many ways, Like, the Nest Learning kicked off the smart home trend It took this relatively mundane and transformed it into was beautiful. And since then, we rolled So we had the original. Then, we had the V2 and V3. Both of which were 10 So it's been a while. And even to this day, the the third gen of the leaders in the market, at the same time. It set up this where we thought of a new industrial of incredible a really, really to refresh the Nest RACHID FINGE: We changed It has a new industrial But surely, we changed more ANISH KATTUKARAN: Absolutely. The way it looks of the first things you'll when you see it. I'm obviously biased, but We designed it to look and that you put on the wall. Isabel, my partner in talks about this as being RACHID FINGE: Nice. ANISH KATTUKARAN: I But Yes, you're to be just the most beautiful It's also meant to be the And when I say smart, that can both simultaneously and save money and So packed into the Nest we've rolled out a whole bunch capabilities. So I'll give you We've got new features like So for example, if it's a and your home is to heat up a few degrees on The thermostat will and it will pause heating and you'll still get you had hoped to get to anyway. So that's a good example. We have another feature And so if it's a cold winter Adaptive Eco may only adjust since it will take the house when you return. And so Adaptive Eco hey, if I know you're I'm going to turn the thermostat but I want to make back up when you return. Now, if it's really, really I gave you, it's going to heat it back up. So it's actually not going to begin with. So that's the sort of built into the device RACHID FINGE: That's amazing. There's one thing about, when you're someone and in this case, more than one. So you work hard with the whole There is a day Usually, it is the press and they publish their reviews. I'm wondering what is that like. Know when those reviews Are you reading all of like having your eyes closed? Like, I'm just too nervous And what do you learn Is there anything you need ANISH KATTUKARAN: I read from users on our products. I read all of it. I read every press article. And then, I think that's really, really respond to that feedback. I think the thermostat We launched the thermostat to a from the market. And that's a big step because of the most iconic products And in general, the vast We did have a small that worried about bright enough for them. We heard that feedback, we rolled out a allows users who in a particular hallway the ability to more granularly I give you that as one example should build the product. It's informed by research. Once you get it out will be additional got to be able to and iterate in real time RACHID FINGE: Now, Anish, we've been talking about of course, using Google I presume that's also a someday in the not But surely, there are more touch One example is the How do you make sure experiences are accessible in a ANISH KATTUKARAN: With we set out to build a very We think of the Google as this centralized hub that across a lot of But what you've hopefully over the last couple to meet users where they are. And what I mean by that is-- this is a classic in the kitchen at the and somebody rings the are wet, well, they are means not having wipe your hands, go find your So one example of us is, we just built the recently launched able to flick your wrist and see who's and respond to them right Similarly, we brought to the Google TV Streamer. So in the evenings. Say, for example, you and you're settling you can press with It'll bring the Home panel out, to make sure the without having to pick So I think for us, the The Google Home app will be on your phones, and then to bring relevant and meet them where on their watch or their tablet and so on. So hopefully, you've and we're going to continue RACHID FINGE: talk, I feel like we're which I think must make it very imagine you must have a that we're working towards. How do you keep a How do you know is next while everything feels so next to ANISH KATTUKARAN: We in these multi-year cycles, When you build physical to develop those products tend So yeah, I have AI of what we're doing for But I think devices are The part that I'm so excited models and Gemini in particular has to unlock these devices is just immense, And so that's the future that It's like we know that Gemini point for the smart home. And we can see what we're And then, our job is to ensure that towards that future that's delivering value to users And that example is a great example a couple years out understands everything. It figures it out. It knows what matters to you and That's a little bit going to realize when we launch things and the ability to search your here in the next few months. RACHID FINGE: We'll a top tip for the that the listeners of the could do with one that we talked about today. Maybe, Anish, in this into what is a kickass created in your heard of maybe someone on the people at home who are into the and set that up, for Me Create Feature? ANISH KATTUKARAN: I've got a reasonably probably our most which is our TV time automation. When my wife and I settle we put the kids in bed, which we can now from our Google TV Streamer, all the lights. It turns the thermostat down. It closes our blinds, and our camera view, so we can before we start to watch TV. That's a good one. I think that's something can find some value out of. One other one is I in my office where when I a light outside my office So when I'm working from home, don't barge in. And that one's both an awesome at the same time. RACHID FINGE: Amazing. You have your own of your sort of studio there. ANISH KATTUKARAN: Exactly. So maybe in a different life. I wanted to be a podcaster so maybe that's why But if you haven't recommend you do something RACHID FINGE: I think I'm going Anish, thank you so much by Google podcast, and we hope ANISH KATTUKARAN: Hey, this is I'll be back anytime. Cheers. RACHID FINGE: Thanks a lot. SPEAKER: Thank you for listening Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now wherever to be the first to listen.