There's something a bit strange about Metroid This is a full on Metroidvania. It takes place a world. You'll need to scour the map to backtrack through the world to use those powers This is a game where you explore and navigate. no one telling you where to go - you need And yet - I'm not sure I really figured Dread I seemed to just magically end up in got lost for more than a few minutes. How on earth does that happen? How is this exact same time? Something fishy's happening So I decided to play through the game again. This time, in true Boss Keys style, I did eye. And what I realised was pretty interesting. You see, behind the scenes, developer Mercury and techniques to - essentially - guide you world of planet ZDR, like you're tied to an invisible And so in this video, I want to show you these to find the way forward, and hard to get lost. is why you didn't get lost in Metroid Dread. Check out this tiny bit of level design. Samus basic, built-in slide move. But at the other above the ground. That means she can't slide side of this gap will be completely inaccessible Until then, it's a point of no return. Now, Metroid Dread is absolutely full of these. jump back up, slide down hills that are too deep to swim out of, step on giant fidget through giant doors that lock tight behind So what's the point? Well, I think it's I call the "ever expanding explorable area". a Metroid game, you are restricted, by your means it's not too difficult to find the in Super Metroid - even if you can't figure only 13 rooms to check. But as the game goes on, and you uncover more grows and grows. Once you find the power bomb accessible to you. Finding the path forward That's why it's called an EEEA. realise the scale of the task ahead of you. But now look at Metroid Dread. We start the bunch of different areas - including a large, cave system to the west. Then we get the Phantom it, do we need to check every single room No - because if you travel in the wrong direction, map is actually, completely inaccessible. through until you have the morph ball. And appeared, and it can't be pruned without So it means your explorable space is And this is something that happens throughout Metroid Dread, the designers temporarily lock This makes it easier to find the way forward, of the map in mind at one time - your cognitive very difficult to get lost because, when Metroid from going too far in the wrong direction. For the most part, though, you'll never no return seamlessly appear behind you. Okay, so Metroidvanias are about finding abilities finding the place where those abilities are Now, most games in the genre sprinkle the to zig zag back and forth across the world. Drifts, but it's used to unlock an area Now. Here's the world map of Metroid Dread's I'm going to put the location of 13 of the I'm going to put the location of the rooms And what you'll see is that in all of these from the key. Literally, in the same biome. and use it a few rooms over, also in Dairon. of Ghavoran, giving you access to a room on and they're essentially needed next door. This is surely intended to help with memory. visited very recently - it's still in your you visited at the beginning of the game? locks close to the keys makes it much, much But it goes a bit further than that. In most for each key - you get the Desolate Dive in a whole bunch of floors, all over the world. way forward - while the rest will lead to another locked door that you can't open That's not always the case in Metroid Dread, it's not like you can now open loads of get back out of Elun, you can only reach one a plasma shield. Which is, yes, By reducing the number of locks you need to the correct path. Now, I should state this is definitely not beam is a good counter example - the world have the ability you can now find handy pick - like this power bomb resource in Cataris, optional power up, the pulse radar. So, that's technique two - Metroid Dread reducing the number of locks for each key one that will push you further along the critical But, I did say that this is for 13 of the So, you get the morph ball in Cataris. You - which lets you find the Varia suit. And to withstand this superheated room. That's more like classic Metroid, right? And it's not the only time that happens. and need to use it in the depths of Burenia. it to smash through blocks in Ghavoran. These sending you zig-zagging across the planet. That is, if it wasn't for the game's fast So when you get the morph ball in Cataris, around the corner, in the same biome. On the other side is a teleporter, which sends You're then led back to the same teleporter you know it, you're just round the corner Varia suit. How fortuitous! So, sure - the morph ball and Varia suit may teleporter essentially puts them right next lock and key pair ups I mentioned: the space Burenia. And the screw attack gives you access to Ghavoran. So even if the lock is far away from the key, progress by giving you a a teleporter that Plus this also has a nice, additional consequence So as I said, after you get the morph ball Varia suit area. But let's say you go the all the way through Cataris, take the elevator you'll end up in this room - which is the of the Varia suit. As I said in the Hollow Knight episode, having path can be a really good idea - it makes now doubled the chances of the player finding - if you go left after finding the morph ball, right, you'll get to the Varia suit. Same You know the bananas in the Donkey Kong games? to pick up. Well, the level designers know them in all sorts of ways - like showing you stumble into shortcuts and secrets. This is a technique I like to call "breadcrumbing" you wherever the designers want you to go. After you get the morph ball, you'll be upgrade. Then drawn up here, with another this energy tank - which leads up to the Varia Once you get the speed booster, you'll want tank part. And once you get the Flash Shift, get this Energy Tank - which happens to be After you get the screw attack, you may be screw attack blocks and get a missile upgrade. Here, you're tempted to head left by more then pulled upwards by more screw attack blocks you to a teleporter - and the place where the game. So even though the screw attack is found in - you are led there by a bunch of breadcrumbs. Breadcrumbs don't have to be upgrades, mind encourage you to blast through hidden blocks. effect, but happen to hang around the doors Anything the game can do to grab your attention path - it will do it. So I think those are the four main techniques find the path forward, and hard to get lost. Points of no return trap you in small sections and stop you going in the wrong direction. Putting the locks near the keys means the memory. And if the lock isn't nearby, there's And tempting breadcrumbs are used to guide another. There are some other techniques too, of course. to suggest where you should use the spin boost lodge in your brain and tempt you to return And, for the most part, these techniques are game. I can watch back the footage of me playing me falling into every trick and trap that's Of course, it's not going to work 100% of Not know where to go. Get stuck in a room And, contrary to the clickbait title, yes While the points of no return often lock you the game where the world is much more open. every single player, every single time. But, by and large, these techniques do work is - are they a force for good? Do they make or worse? Now, first, I should state that all Metroidvanias your way. Even Dread's perhaps naughtiest in multiple places in Super Metroid - such massive drop down into Norfair. Subtle clues and directions stop Metroidvania ultimately, it's more down to their frequency and quite aggressively. But, ultimately, what you think of these techniques games. There are those who play Metroid games primarily interested in the exploration aspect. If that's the case, then Metroid Dread gives world - but with less risk of getting lost, tedious backtracking and map-reading. And, on top of that, you'll find a game tour of different abilities, biomes, and bitchin' forward progress. Then, there are those who play Metroid games a complex spaghetti mess of a world. If that's the case, then Metroid Dread can At some point you'll realise that you don't the way forward is always pretty obvious. stuff and just let the game whisk you off you care about navigation, that's not much Plus, when it comes to exploration, you may the critical path to find items - only to may not bother to hunt down optional goodies back up. You'll just stick to the critical And then, there are those who play Metroid If that's the case, then - sure, your first hand - but subsequent adventures are about the movement tech and bugs to break out of better, faster way. And its not like the developers are unaware supposed to, you can insta-kill Kraid in a For me, personally, I'm not really into I really dig the action and atmosphere of been navigation and exploration. So, as much I did feel a bit let down by the game's I wanted to figure things out for myself - but to the end. I wanted to explore - but, felt with a paltry 39% completion rate. And I wanted same way I feel about Hallownest, Zebes, and So that's me. What about you? What was your Metroid player are you? Let me know, in the