We are in the Plex. This is the center of Google. Gosh, it's hard to remember It changed literally everything. How we live, how we how we get literally anywhere Google has been the front for over two decades, and now there are so many doors. Google may not be the first place you go for answers anymore, so what are they gonna do about it? Hello. Hi, Emily. So good to meet you again. Good to see you again. Thanks so much for having us here. Oh, likewise. I'm glad you chose a sunny It's beautiful. Sundar Pichai is at a pivotal moment. He's the CEO of Google and its parent company, Alphabet, rising to the top after proving his medal as a talented product He runs a tech giant that functions more like a micro country, overseeing businesses as DeepMind, Cloud, and, of course, Search. Pichai has been carefully that infuses AI into every That deliberate planning from longtime rival Microsoft and OpenAI, whose chatbot seemingly and challenged its cultural relevance. ChatGPT set off a code red at Google, and an industry-wide fever pitch over AI not seen since the dot-com boom. But for Pichai, the frenzy is I saw it's your 20th anniversary. That's right. It was last week. It crept upon me. Are you coffee or tea? I'll go for coffee. How about you? Does it feel like you've Not quite. You know, time flies by. You know, I had my kids right so the whole thing just flew by. Google is famous for those out-of-the box job interview questions. Do you remember any of yours? Like, did you have to figure out how many golf balls fit in a school bus or something like that? Thank God. No. You know, but, you know, I I interviewed on April 1st, so There was rumor. I didn't know whether it but Gmail apparently had launched. So all my interviews were about Gmail. People wanted to know what And it definitely wasn't They actually launched it, yeah. But I never allow, no products on April Fool's Day. I think it's too confusing. You just had a blowout quarter. The stock jumped more than Did that feel like a or, as they say in cricket, was that the bat talking? In many ways, you know, it felt we worked very hard to You know, in 2016, one of was to say the company should be AI first. To me, we are just getting started in the beginning of what I think will be a extraordinary and so I'm incredibly excited about it. AI has been around for decades, but it seems like everything all at once. How do you make sense of All tech cycles are this way, right? You know, the- But this one feels different. It feels bigger. Is it? It is bigger. We still have long ways to go, but we are in the early stages of that. And so, you know, you're gonna feel that but I think we are prepared for it. So you kind of roll with the flow. You embrace it. How are you and your kids We use Google Lens for homework. I don't want to get 'em in trouble, but the class allows you to do that. But sometimes he asks me for help on math. I dunno. Sometimes I'm lazy and I but I'm also using Google Lens to kind of figure out the answer. You grew up in Chennai in India. What was it like at the kitchen table? Like, what got you here? My parents always emphasized, you know, learning and knowledge, and it's worked in some ways, it always resonated very deeply with me. You know, I felt this quest for learning knowledge, et cetera. It's what the company is about, too. I grew in a middle-class family. I perceived our life through We waited five years for a telephone. It was a rotary phone, but when it came to our home, you know, it changed everyone's lives. I remember getting our first television and suddenly being able to watch sports. You know, I used to bike but, you know, there and I had to go uphill. But then, after many years, and, like, I'm like, &quot;Wow, what a dramatic difference.&quot; I never took technology for granted. And so that's what, you know, always been optimistic about how technology You've been CEO now for a decade. How have you changed in that time? I think the main thing is when you know, you get to understand patterns, so you're running into something, but there's a sense of deja vu, you know, you've seen it before. And so I think that helps and deal with it more effectively. But a lot of this is, you know, this scale, you have there's a lot of noise, and So the ability to separate pay attention to the few things that you need to pay attention to. And, you know, I think I've gotten better I heard Sergey is back What is the involvement of and what advice are they giving you? I talk to them regularly. Sergey is actually spending He's literally coding. And, you know, some of my fondest is sitting with Sergey on large screen looking at lost curves I think one of the advantages they have is they're not caught And so sometimes, when I it allows all of us to step back and look at the bigger picture, which I think is incredibly important when you run something at this scale. The decisions Pichai and Google make influence how billions of And the nature of how users do that is starting to change in the age of AI. This seems like a threat to Google, except the core technology being used by Google's competitors was Google researchers literally the T in GPT. Do you wish you capitalized We use transformers in Search. That's what led to large compared to other products. So we have infused transformers We have a chance to do that and with the Gemini series of models. And there's gonna be more But what is more important is And if the new Google is only you know, AI is super helpful sometimes, but sometimes it's still deeply wrong. Where do you draw the line? I think part of what makes is while there are times we give answers, it'll always link to a Now we've had answers in Search We are just now using So the links will live on. Yes, and, you know, I think it'll always be an There will be times when My son is celiac, so to see whether something is gluten-free. We just want to know. But often it leads to more things, and, you know, then you I think understanding that, is part of what makes Search unique. Some leading computer scientists have said Search is getting Do you see their point? Anytime there's a transition, you get an explosion of new content, and AI is going to do that. So for us, we view this as the challenge, and I actually think, you know, there'll be people who will struggle to do that, right? So doing that well is what will define a and I think it's gonna be the heart of what makes Search successful. You make a ton of money on ads next to the links generated by searches. If a chatbot is giving and maybe more answers are we in the midst of an assault on Google's business model? So we've always found people want choices, including in commercial areas, and that's a fundamental need. And I think we've always As we are rolling out we've been experimenting with ads, and the data we see shows that will hold true during this phase as well. The images that Gemini initially and Black founding fathers, you've said that was unacceptable. If you look at any pictures you're seeing old white men. People are calling this woke AI, and it's not just happening here, it's happening across the industry. How did the model generate We are a company which serves products to and there are generic questions. For example, people come and say, &quot;Show me images of school teachers, or doctors, or nurses.&quot; We have people asking or the US, right? How do you get it right Obviously, the mistake including cases where it So that was the bug, and, you know, so we got it wrong. Would you say it's like In this particular case, yes, right? I think, you know, we are and I think we clearly and we are gonna get it right. How concerned are you about AI-generated content ruining Search? For example, the AI-generated selfie of the tank man in Tiananmen Square. It shows up in Google search The challenge for everyone how do you have a notion and real in a world where there's gonna be a I think it's part of in the next decade ahead, right? People often come to whether something they saw It's a common pattern we see. We are making progress, but it's gonna be an You've got AI systems that are running out of training data. You've got companies to train their models. Aren't there risks to that? Yes. I think that, you know, through it all, are you creating new knowledge? Are these models developing Are you making progress in the I think those are the frontiers you know, you can do that Is LLM technology nearing a plateau? I would be surprised if LLMs are the only thing we We are investing a lot of Our AI research is talent in driving the next generation It seems, when you look like Google missed the big A new artificial intelligence made its debut online. It's as revolutionary as the internet. The topic of today's big and it's big bet on AI and how it just kind of and no one kind of knew If you could go back, what would you do differently? To be clear, I take a long-term perspective and say, when the internet just first came about, Google didn't even exist then, right? So we were in the first we were in the first company to do email, we were in the first So I view this AI as, you know, we are in the Your leadership style has and steady, and cautious, and you're often compared who are moving fast and breaking things. How would you describe yourself? Look, the reality, I One of the first things was to pivot the company as well as really invest more in YouTube and Cloud to build them I think the larger the company is, you are making fewer but they need to be clear, and you have to point the Part of that, at times, involves You build consensus because that's what allows behind those decisions. I mean, any leader in has to be willing to hear the criticism. And I'm not gonna make like they do on &quot;Late Night,&quot; but I do have a few. &quot;Where is Google?&quot; &quot;Running things through legal.&quot; &quot;Google doesn't have one not a one.&quot; Do you think you're the Look, it's a privilege You know, people tend to but it is so small in the and, you know, when I look across everything we do, and for the first time, all of that has a calm and You know, I put a lot of chips, at least from my perspective on Google. So can you walk through campus It's definitely been nice to walk and see people, you know, I see a dinosaur statue in the distance, which I think is a good reminder. Like, how much do you worry in a world where technology I mean, in technology, I think, if you don't innovate to stay ahead, I think that's the inevitable No dinosaurs? Well, they were great, but you know, you don't want, you don't want to have the same fate. How much has this AI and think differently? Because it does seem like you're We have been preparing You know, a lot of the foundation of breakthroughs in the So to me, this moment has really channeling the There they are. The I/O tents. I/O tent. For one time a year, we get to pretend as if except we are speaking about technology. So Google I/O is sort of a What is the key message this year? It's less about, you more about the journey we are on, the vision we have for how AI and how we can bring it. Alphabet used to be thought of as this collection of moonshots, but a lot of those projects or folded back into Google, or shut down. How should we think about Alphabet today? What is the new Google? When we think about both the underlying bet is the same. You're going to invest in deep technology and computer science and apply it to solve problems for people. So I think that part doesn't change. When you take big, large-scale bets, by definition, you're if you don't have a few failures. When you go back to the S-1, Google said, &quot;We're not You can spend 20% of your Google created this bottoms up culture where everyone has a voice, and the perks are great too. But did it go too far? Like, did it become an Part of what makes Google there is a culture of And so I think it's super I think we are also a company where employees have and I think that's made Google, Google, you can't hide. Google, Google, you can't hide. You recently fired Google employees who were protesting this contract with the Israeli government It seemed like a distinct that's historically Why did you take this stand? I think when we have cases, where a few employees, you know, cross beyond what's in the code of contact and disrupt the productivity or do so in a way that it makes other I think we have to take action, and that's what we are doing. It has nothing to do with the It's about the conduct of Over the past years, through the pandemic, the company has grown a lot. There are a lot of new people. I view, particularly the opportunity we have but it needs a real focus on our mission. There have been multiple Why take this approach? Why not cut once and cut deep? We are reallocating people There are cases where you're moving people to removing layers so that So that's why we have taken the time to do it correctly and well. Microsoft is obviously in AI as well. OpenAI, Inflection, Mistral. We've reported that was actually in part because and wanted to catch up. How do you feel about the competition? I've always held a view if you're working in the technology space, there is a lot of competition. We see it all the time. The way you stay ahead is It has to be true all the time. It's happening at a faster pace. But, you know, technology, changes tend to get faster over time, so it's not surprising to me at all. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella I hope that with our innovation, they will definitely want to come out and show that they can dance. And I want people to know and I think that'll be a great day. Who's really choosing the dance music? I think one of the ways is by listening to noise out there and playing to someone else's dance music. I've always been very clear. I think we have a clear So you're listening to your own music. That's exactly right. Google is facing a ton in the US, abroad, over video, ads, the app store. Some other big companies to focus on their core. Has Google thought about that? A lot of our products integrate in a way that provides value for our users. So I think that is important. Part of what allows us to compete in the Google Cloud market is our, the investment in AI we undertook because of Search is what and compete hard against like Amazon and Microsoft, in Cloud. So I would argue that the way we are approaching and adds choice in the market. What do you think is the future or potential of AI-powered hardware, and what will Google's role in it be? I think with AI, you get a chance to rethink that experience over the next few years. I still see the center of where the AI innovation followed by glasses, right? That's how I see it. Last time we talked, you told me China will be How should policymakers factor I think over time we need by which we achieve global I know it sounds farfetched now, but we've done it in other areas, like nuclear technology I think we are gonna And so I would expect, over time, there needs to be engagement with China on important issues like AI safety. Artificial general intelligence. What does it mean to you? Do we get there and when? It's not a well-defined phrase, it means different things But I think if you define across a wide variety of economic activity and being able to do it well, I think that's one way to look at it. So Google's gonna get us to AGI? You know, we are committed to making foundational in a bold and responsible way. And so, you know, I'll focus on the effort to You've said there's even that you don't understand. Will AI always be somewhat in a black box? I have a little bit of a I think, you know, humans Often, when people explain you know, they're telling something, it's not entirely clear. Today, we can't make sense AI will give us more insights and more visibility into When I asked OpenAI CEO Sam Altman why we should trust him, he said. You shouldn't. Why should we trust Google? Well, I share the notion that no one, you shouldn't blind lead, you know? That's why it's important Regulation has a part to play, you know, test balance innovation. But as these AI systems get more capable, it shouldn't just be based on a system of trust people or trust companies. We've talked a lot What is the biggest I view for all companies, particularly, you know, at scale, you know, the biggest threat Is there a healthy dose of paranoia? Like not becoming Stan I think that, you know, there's a part of me which has the old Andy Grove phase, That is important. And I think this moment is no different. Are we gonna look back on Like, is this gonna all look I hope we do because that shows, you know, you know, my kids aren't or the fact that they have of computing in their hands. So similarly, you know, there's no reason we wouldn't scale up our computing a hundred So, yes, you know, I hope some of this looks I hope it is that way, otherwise, Thank you so much. That was so awesome. She's more difficult than Oh, man.