- Hey there, I'm Teela with Deep English and I'm so excited to share a lesson today on how to tell a great story in English. One of the best parts about not only will it improve but it will also help you to tell a great story in any language. And when you can tell a great story, you can truly connect with So let's get started. Today's lesson is going to Number one, we'll learn about Number two, we'll learn how Number three, we'll through different events Number four, we'll learn how to end or wrap up a story in English. Number five, this is my favorite part, we'll learn a secret to telling a really compelling and interesting story. Number six, I'm going to share a story from my own life and we'll keywords within the story. Okay, so let's jump right in. So, number one. The power of storytelling. Human beings have been telling stories since the beginning of time. Maybe even before they could storytelling is said to be Our brains love stories so much of the world around us in story form there are reward centers So we tell stories to to express our emotions, And so when we can make sense of the world around us in story form, it allows people listening to us to more easily connect It's easier for them to and it's more fun for them to listen to what we're saying while we talk. So, now that we know a little bit about the power of storytelling let's talk about how to Many stories in English begin after the question, So for example, if I'm in a conversation and someone asks me, Teela, how are you? And I say, mm, I'm okay They might ask, why what happened? And this is my chance to begin a story. So if someone asks you, what happened? It's your chance to tell a story. From this point, there are The first is to use a keyword or phrase that lets our listeners know So we can use a word it all began when, initially, Yeah those are some really good ones. From there after we use we want to set the scene. So we want to let the listener know who is involved and where they are. So they can imagine For example I might it all started when I was hiking. So right there I use a keyword or phrase, it all started when, to let my listener know and then I said, I was So I let them know the and they can imagine what I was doing. I was hiking so I was in the woods. Okay now we've begun our story. Let's learn a little bit about how to transition within the story as it unfolds. So to transition from event to event, again we want to use a Some that are really great for this are words or phrases like then, when, let's see here then, when, next, and suddenly. Suddenly is a really great one. So let's revisit our story. It all started when I was hiking and suddenly the trail became very steep and I tripped and I fell. Then when I looked in my pocket I noticed my phone was gone. After that I searched everywhere. Okay so you may have then, after that, when and So suddenly is an excellent because it lets the listener know that something surprising and So they should tune in and So suddenly is a great word Okay now let's learn how to end or how to wrap To wrap up a story in English, we want to use a few key phrases or words that let the listener know, okay the story is about to end, so that they can disengage from the story. So words that are helpful to end a story are something like maybe, or finally, basically. So let's revisit the story we've been telling It all started when I was hiking and suddenly the trail became very steep. I tripped and I fell. Later when looked in my pocket, I noticed my phone was gone. After that I searched I searched and I searched Eventually, it became too dark to see. In the end, I went home empty Okay so to wrap up our story I used the word eventually and in the end to let the listener know we're coming to the end of the story. All right. So now I want to share with you a little secret for making your stories really compelling and interesting. So one thing that I like to do when I tell a story is to involve words, to use words that show my emotion. So as I was telling this story, I used the word frantically This lets listeners really so more than just an now they're also having of kind of being there with And so that little from something that is just understood kind of from a logical perspective to something that becomes and something that your All right. It's time for me to As I tell this story see if you can identify keywords and phrases that are important to storytelling. Okay. So one day I was at the I went to an ATM and Then I went and I sat down at a table. I noticed that there was and he was talking on the phone. So I decided to listen a little closer to what he was saying. I noticed that he was really upset and he was saying his and now he couldn't afford Suddenly I looked down and I noticed that he was wearing the that my own father often wears. In this moment I realized that I was filled with so much compassion for him and I decided that It turned out that I had of money out of the ATM that he would need for I walked over to him. I offered him the money and thanking me over and over again. In the end, this experience taught me that we are all in this together and when we have a chance it is an honor and a Okay. I really enjoyed sharing this lesson with you today on storytelling. Remember to begin a story, that lets the listener know Also set the scene. Draw your audience in so they Next, use words that from scene to scene or event to event. Finally, use keywords or phrases that let the listener know that the story is coming to an end and and if you really want and engaging story, make sure that you or the emotions of the character as they move through the story. This will give the listener an actual experience of Thank you guys so much for I look forward to our See you later.