The main idea was that has adequate storage to hide things. I want the space to look bright arches and curves to soften This apartment is located in Kwun Tong an area in Kowloon, Hong Kong. Kwun Tong is an iconic industrial area with lots of small businesses My name is Daphney Ho. I'm a self-taught interior I live here with my husband after we got married. When we took over the apartment, since the last owner It looks very aged and worn. This apartment has a diamond which is common in large scale I demolished two bedroom wars which increased the size of the bathroom. All of the doors in the apartment in order to save space. The entrance is a small foyer area There is a platform and shoe cabinet This idea is influenced by the Japanese not to bring dirt inside the home. Behind the door, I made a full height everyday necessities The living area is on the wooden platform Next to the door, there's a full body mirror before leaving home. The whole sofa is custom The shoe cabinet continues from the wall and together it forms the sofa back to safe space. I want a deep sofa because It also makes the space There are drawers below the sofa for additional storage. Originally there was a beam above the sofa I covered it by building a niche The window allows a lot of natural sunlight It is a great spot for our plants The TV cabinet connects to the bay window and aligns the height of the sofa. We chose to lift the cabinet off the floor so it looks lighter and visually cleaner Our walls and ceilings are applied an ecological nontoxic On the other side of the living It is a step down from the living space and the wooden platform acts to divide A circular dining it is a symbol of uniting the family. I wanted to maximise the dining so I went with the idea of booth seating, The booth is based on a similar design so using the same materials In addition to the booth seats. There are two foldable rattan chairs On this side of the booth seats Mixing closed and open storage, making the space look less heavy. Beside the seat It is low profile and comes out upto on the other side. The kitchen size is a bit small and the shape is a bit like a pentagon, So I kept the original placement but rebuilt it with a full height cabinet I especially added a narrow vertical drawer to hide our lengthy tools like our brooms and mops. Since there is not a lot of counter space I used full length bars off the working surface. There's an arch in between to transit Our air con can be placed above the arch After going through the center arch, They are actually sliding This is our main bedroom. It was designed The custom bed is built higher underneath The three panel sliding door hides a full height storage closet. The reason I made it fluted is because This closet is also our dress up The bathroom is an open space. The separation of dry and wet areas by the Japanese bathrooms. The size and the shape of sink was conceded to allow us to fit the washing Next to the sink It is our toilet room. The space is limited, sliding door as partition. Opposite the toilet is the wet room. The wet room is behind the glass door When privacy is needed. the storage closet door The flooring and ledge around. the bathtub is made of Japanese Aomori hiba wood, which has a strong anti molding and antibacterial properties. The second bedroom is currently and multifunctional room. All of the furniture settings in this room more flexible to transform it Currently we use adjustable hanging system and storage boxes We hid it behind a curtain To better I ordered a custom desk that has two shorter and the others on the floor. The desk is so light, so I can easily move it in and out. I have installed a foldable on board on the wall Behind the big sliding door. there is another hidden I found these stackable shoe boxes online and I think they are perfect When designing a small space, to the possibility but at the same time to spare black space as balance Thanks for watching. And if you are an architect or designer please share it with us at