Like, the thing is, people don't appreciate [Upbeat music] Diamond hands! Infinite means infinite! Infinite risk! Infinite reward! Sure my portfolio looks a lot of red, but Lambos or Wendy's I'm gonna get my tendies! There are tens of thousands of hours of video what exactly happened with GameStop in January There are explainer videos, unhinged rants, documentaries all trying to tell the story it might mean, what it says about us, our The common version is that a band of plucky Melvin Capital in a historic short squeeze, The nuanced read is that it was a confluence squeeze but also a FOMO fuelled social media got wrecked as made off like bandits. That, however, is merely where our story starts. This is a story about what happened next. This is a story about finance, social media, elevated to mythological figures, and a mountain lies. This is financial advice. [Melancholy music] And a cold wind is blowing in and the children "Few subjects relating to exchange practices of opinion than that of short selling." A short sale involves borrowing an asset, returning it later, ideally at a lower price Put simply, it's selling borrowed goods There are some things that we need to caveat First and foremost is that meme stock investors, we'll get into later, aren't engaging You'll hear of references to things that your universe, but you and Apes aren't talking Your version of GameStop is an unprofitable towards bankruptcy due to societal shifts got something resembling a second chance via That second chance might pan out into some maybe, but could just as easily be squandered One way or another the price as it currently historical peak profitability during the heyday even a tremendous turnaround would still almost decline. The Ape version of GameStop is an apocalyptic the world will be reborn, a mythological entity delusion, and cope, obsessed with the financial Their version of reality is, undoubtedly, sensational, but the reasons for its existence It is tempting to say that the participants sticky truth is nuanced. There are many elements of Ape lore that are that persist in the collective narrative simply were true. The primary lens of ape culture, born as it They have cast a variety of people, businesses, and will often post taunting letters addressed broadly where they invoke their prowess in "Bro I play runescape. I literally grind for days to watch a number Been playing 15 years and still not lost interest. They think it's going to be any different "I just realized how fucked shorts are. They picked a fight with the gaming industry. The same people who will grind hours on end, get one win. We refuse to end on a loss, we refuse to sell. "I did one of the most degenerate grinds This entire genre of post is profoundly sad, a willingness to wander in circles for hours skill to playing the stock market, but because and intentionality. They are based in the belief that, like in in a matched competition. But when you back up and evaluate the whole the game at all, assuming the ape is even On their forums they are winning epic battles tuned to drive GameStop out of business, they always, every single day, "getting desperate" In reality Apes are shadow boxing the random It has become a layer cake of every genre reheated conspiracy theories, and general in the form of financial woo, get-rich-quick A lot of their language is rooted in the culture They call themselves "Apes" partly in Troopers, but also because the other words the media started to pay attention. It is a hazily defined movement dispersed burdened with two years of petty drama, in-fighting, Due to their extreme beliefs their culture so their communication is predictably littered abbreviations, jargon, and private definitions which can make it understandably difficult We can get there, I believe in us, we can journey require a journey. The version of the story that you're already tried to short squeeze some hedge funds and "Meanwhile the quote unquote meme stocks These companies pumped up by amateur traders purpose of forcing certain hedge funds to The version of the story you're not familiar squeeze, Heat Lamp Theory penned by Reddit provider ComputerShare's operational algorithm storing plan-held shares in the DTCC like someone made it illegal to report these heat the evidence that Apes own the float. Although that post was low effort and the correct, my hunch was still valid. It was often attacked by what I believe were it illegal." The abuse of ComputerShare's algorithm was ever since Ryan Cohen's "I want to be Cohen was signalling for Apes to terminate their shares. What was not obvious was the reaction of the - revealing themselves to be paid shills, to distract from Heat Lamp. "Censorship of Heat Lamp DD shows we are "What the fuck is this shit? So we still get pushback for Heat Lamp at DD that is literally the definition of FUD and MOASS will not happen." "THE HEAT LAMP THEORY dd to me is as impressive It's like the dd's from the beginning So, yeah, there's a lot of ground to cover [orchestal music] The wheels of finance spin beneath the surface Everywhere you look the impact can be felt. The modern corporation consists of many moving to communications. Likewise the finances behind the corporation dance of equity and credit that facilitates One of the most misunderstood and contentious a "short sale." "Few subjects relating to exchange practices of opinion than that of short selling." Though many characterize shorting as a toxic And it has polarized people for as long as But what is a short sale? A short sale involves borrowing an asset, returning it later, ideally at a lower price Put simply, it's selling borrowed goods Two things happen with this arrangement. First is that the short seller gets to hold the asset is returned, providing them with Second is that when the asset is returned seller makes money, but merely when they lock The risk/reward proposition of short selling time of borrowing. If an asset is borrowed at $5 then the absolute interest, of course.) On the flip side is the risk profile. The maximum losses of a short sale are effectively to 100% or even 10,000% of the original sale As the trend for the economy as a whole is more common than stocks going from $5 to $0. In addition the borrower is expected to pay the value of the asset, similar to interest or CTB. However unlike a personal loan that you might where the payments encompasses both interest loan is eventually paid off, the cost to borrow no cap, thus borrowing an asset for long periods or even exceed the original value of the asset For these reasons it is uncommon to hold a Even though the name "short-selling" comes or "fall short," it is coincidentally short time frames of weeks or months rather However this short timeframe leaves the borrower Disruptions that might temporarily set a company of the business can benefit short-sellers a surge of excitement about a company that pressuring them to return the asset or incur At the most extreme, lenders can compel the of the cost to the borrower. When short sellers are impelled to return buying pressure can further potentiate upwards further margin pressures to other existing This situation is commonly referred to as are squeezed out of their positions by the "I mean they can try, they can try as hard say: no cell, no sell. I'm not selling. Power to the player. Power to the shareholders. Power to the individual investor each choosing In late January 2021 video game retailer GameStop stock rose from $20 to just shy of $500 over The exact confluence of events that led to won't drag the point out here, but the critical event that hinged off multiple specific coincidences. The pandemic made the situation for brick-and-mortar many hedge funds had taken out short positions in revenue and thus share price in an attempt at offsetting the economic impact There was a zeitgeist of futility in the air, the stimulus package wasn't enough to fix something reckless In specific, hedge fund Melvin Capital holds that left the fund extremely exposed if the see this as an opportunity and begin promoting As the idea of getting in on a potential GameStop in late 2020 the messaging gets flattened. New people are flooding into Reddit's Wall them their own ideas, their own politics, The thing that really speaks to people, and that this is a chance to hurt Wall Street. As more and more people pile in the experienced and over, thus new people are being on-boarded career best measured in hours. These are users who jumped onto forums and as fast as possible?" They're not getting a lecture on risk management, that Wall Street Bets would ever be a good speech about revenge for 2008 and a bare-bones push. Potentiating that, any large, leaderless movement whole slew of political opportunists from the tsunami in their preferred direction. These people, trying to transform it into amplify a lot of narrative about solidarity Ape together strong. That's the kerosene that primes this whole cult. [match lighting] This is a bold claim, and it's basically to the match, the event that really, truly permanent root in Ape culture, and that's an app-based free brokerage, disabled the stocks. "Just this morning Robinhood, which is really lot of those younger investors said that in transactions for certain securities to position-close-only. And to be clear that means you can sell names That was the day the price hit its all-time-high, on the cusp of, like, total revolution, the were about to be crowned victors over Wall Robinhood turning off the buy button was, of targeted disruption. The reality is far more mundane, Robinhood tech-bro "it's better to ask for forgiveness In a nutshell the idea is that they run all margin account that they call "instant deposits." You make an account, start to transfer money arrived yet, but Robinhood lets you act like You want to buy a stock, Robinhood pays for when it finally arrives. This undeniably speeds things up and makes who want to get in on this opportunity to it's too late, but exposes Robinhood to If a million new users all sign up on the at $300 a share via "instant deposits", So the mundane reality is that the influx plays in a specific basket of stocks stressed across the board, so they shut down buying In the aftermath the CEO of Robinhood, Vlad basically run out of money which may or may of the threat. "We're really in unprecedented times, our customers we had to limit buying in these, "It sounds to me as though there was a liquidity Turns out giving everyone a margin account But that's boring. You know what's exciting? They turned off the buy button specifically They want you to sell! That's an exciting idea! The funny thing is that it didn't even kill Sure, Robinhood and a few other app-based but cash-account brokers were trading just next day, peaking back over $400. The buy button was maybe a wake up call, a stop and you should cash out while you can, the weekend. When the smoke clears there's a congressional actually a ton of scrutiny in and around the Melvin Capital eats some truly staggering for a bailout to avoid closing entirely. Regulators are worried about how well they're are worried social media influencers aren't Everyone knows that a charismatic figure can stock, but do the events of January suggest to the market itself? Who, if anyone, was responsible for January? Thing is that while a bunch of people made money has to come from somewhere. In an actual short squeeze the idea is that the ones buying vastly overpriced GameStop So if this was a squeeze that's simple, The SEC report didn't come out until fall it does try to engage with the general public aren't deep in the weeds. It's not flawless, but the conclusions are GameStop was a complicated mix of activities There was a short squeeze in the mix, a bunch to pump at the beginning of the week was driven but the main body of it all, the buyers who was overwhelmingly retail buyers. The people left holding the bag when the music wasn't Vanguard, wasn't BlackRock, it recruits whose first day of stock trading and buying GME that week. The story of Apes post-squeeze is a bunch room at 5am asking when the party is supposed trying to manifest another even larger squeeze money off their $420 GME shares is if it somehow Everything becomes fodder for theories about just keep going up. Direct share registration, naked shorts, RegSHO, none of these mattered to Apes at all in January, get injected as explanations for why the squeeze They will, in the months that follow, re-cast that not only was it not the main event, it true squeeze, the mother of all short squeezes: "I'd like to welcome you all to the Bellagio We're just enjoying some early tendies. There's some news on the wind that big things as this weekend, and Bobby's pumping. I don't think anything could really go wrong. I think there's a lot of people who want I hold for the infinity pool. I just I buy I hold I DRS. MOASS is a tricky thing to talk about. First of all it is a pure financial conspiracy We're used to conspiracy theories that intersect of international bankers eventually, but those or politics and then expand to cover finance MOASS starts in finance with the operations go the subject is already inundated with unfamiliar This is all compounded by the fact that the MOASS is a vessel conspiracy containing many These theories are disparate, obtuse, self-referential, It is, as a whole, a theory that resists critical If you try to formulate an all-encompassing The jar, MOASS itself, is the belief that other meme stock company is going to skyrocket unfathomably rich in the blink of an eye. Everything inside the jar is the how and why. Taken as a whole MOASS is many things: it's glitch, it's revenge against Wall Street, their savings, but above all MOASS is a story, this. "What you need to know before the MOASS, So let's start by chugging this bitch and We know we own the float. So if they have to cover, that means that Now if we hold to ten million, that's what So if it goes to a hundred thousand, if it to one thousand, if it goes to five hundred, the squeeze. What's the squeeze is once it's past ten Then we're squeezing! "Some point in the near future, in my opinion, we survived all the FUD, we survived the short And then we pass our floor of 10 million or let's say, $420 million a share. And if you're raising your eyebrows, saying, The whole economy will be ruined.&quot; Shut up! You don't know what you're talking about. Do your research.! "500 million per share is not a meme, I Major financial firms, most notably hedge their profits to massive volumes of fraudulent phantom shares that suppress the price of Bed Bath &amp; Beyond. This scheme has generated unfathomable amounts pay back, hundreds of billions of shares owed be returned adding up to trillions of dollars company goes out of business entirely allowing The risk is so extreme that it justifies every the media, the government, and the courts wraps. But if that scheme were to be revealed, if of billions of shares, it would trigger a share value into phone number prices and create economy. Because there are so many fake shares Apes to exist, they own the float, and have thus of that apocalyptic unravelling as long as their shares. If no one sells then the supply is zero and Then Apes can dictate not only the price, If Ken Griffin isn't sent to prison for As the evidence of the fraud ripples through revealed to be a sham, faith in institutions the government will be forced to make Apes the greatest transfer of wealth in human history. And then, when the flames of MOASS have cleansed humanity stewarded by the true diamond-handed 1000% gains, did not become paper-handed bitches hodled in the face of Fear, hodled in the Doubt. "So what happens in theory when they can't the millions)? "The price goes to the tens of millions. Then hundreds of millions. Billions if it has to. Price is just supply and demand." "All I have to do is buy one stock Buy one stock GameStop Feel good about it, and watch the world crumble" A thing that's kinda beautiful about a short do anything, you just need to be in the right marbles the whole subject of memestocks is This is a characteristic of all get rich quick as Apes build this complex theory, as they irate when MOASS fails to materialize, that done, is press a "buy" button. As Marantz said, all he has to do is buy one crumble. It's just Reddit's version of the Rapture. Now, in these sample narratives of MOASS we've pin down the specifics in some coherent way. A critical element of talking about MOASS - the jar, the part where Apes get rich, is Any specific belief can be readily discarded of the structure as a whole. For example many MOASS theories cite the idea on any gains from short positions if the victim This makes narrative sense but just isn't Like, there's not much else that needs to But removing it from the jar doesn't really if you debunk it because Apes will just put As a result the memestock belief system has misinformation, willful ignorance, and reheated of which has been constantly adjusted to compensate it. It's a mess. So how does a philosophy like MOASS develop? That is actually a shockingly long explanation. A major problem here, as I said, is that a a pile of half-baked theories cooked up piecemeal subject working specifically to find a thing the conspiracy cascade. The only reason they believe there are hundreds is because that's the thing that needs to shorts never closed in 2021, and they believe the thing that needs to be true in order for squeeze needs to still be on the table because Why are you here? But also a lot of these specific ideas, they that somewhere just opens up a rabbit hole pre-existing conspiracy theories that have movement. February 2021, following the price of GameStop in late or held through it were extremely that wasn't just, you know, making a poor The fiasco with Robinhood turning off the there are, even in our reality, some questions business model that are very much worth asking. Apes of course care about none of that. All the talk about market reform is just smoke, rich. So what they see in the Robinhood fiasco is Someone pulled strings to turn off the buy scared, the whole thing must still be primed Apes declare that shorts never closed, the of a gully and it's going to shoot back back up. The second thing they latch onto is that Citadel Now, in reality this wasn't a philanthropic racket shakedown because Wall Street are all pressure in 2022 anyway, but it gives Apes Apes assert that he must have personally called off the buy button in order to protect Citadel under oath that he didn't do that! This seed narrative proves just sticky enough there Apes crowdsource the explanations, tacking of the complexity and obfuscation of capital is still primed to pop. Part of what makes MOASS persuasive, why people People come into the subject with well-founded The narrative that Wall Street is corrupt, part because it isn't wrong. So memestock proselytes present themselves exposing the deliberately obfuscated truth the ivory tower of finance. Now, despite its reputation, finance, as a layperson, can learn, it is a lot less impenetrable Wall Street is awash with B-minus students too. But we need to be careful here because just you might think, that doesn't mean it's and nuance. Understanding how to evaluate a mutual fund is not that complex. Understanding loopholes in securities regulation So in the theory of MOASS we have a collision finance with the actual impenetrable stuff Street don't bother to understand. And the systems of the economy are so intertwined almost any story one can imagine through the It is a perfect recipe for someone to very information that you have no reference point And if it wasn't already clear, MOASS is Like think about it. Their theory is that Wall Street is so reckless keg that will allow Apes to make unfathomable But despite this powder keg sitting in the no one on Wall Street is greedy or reckless greater resources at their disposal to do And the conspiracy Apes claim to be unravelling material evidence, no memos, no emails, no But also Apes will readily discard the data claim the price is fake, the stock is manipulated, can only trust the numbers when the line goes Since you can't trust news, data, or even at any price and hold for MOASS. The Mother of All Short Squeezes is a lot But please, if you think this is at all unfair own research.' Pursue the Superstonk Flipbook page, with books. Enjoy such critically acclaimed works as the Death and Divorce - The Parts of Ken Griffin's War, The Final Exit DD Compilation... by gherkinit. Regardless of the lack of actual finance underpinning in order to explain why it all falls apart about the community that has grown up around So real quick, what is a stock, anyway? Stocks, or shares, aren't a real thing, portion of a company or venture. They exist entirely in the realm of the social old as civilization. Somewhere in ancient history a couple people dig a mine, and then split the proceeds, and Then the second dude was like "hey, I don't my share of the mine for a goat farm" and Today's equity markets are a vastly more is in a constant state of flux, but the core bundle of legal rights that you can sell. But you're probably thinking to yourself Hundreds of years ago if you wanted to sell the company offices where they keep the ledger mine, tell them "I'm selling my share put his name instead." Upsides: the company knows exactly who owns Downsides: huge pain in the ass. To address the fact that this was a pain in the intangible rights into a tangible object, legal magic that says possession of the paper so that people who wanted to sell their share, do so by handing over the certificates. But that's not a perfect system, you've once the telephone was invented it became What do you mean I need to actually move a What a waste of time. Glossing over one hundred years of securities telephone and then the computer, the model entitlements and beneficial ownership. When you buy shares via Robinhood your shares Trust and Clearing Corporation, or DTCC, with keeps their own list of which of their clients Now, the DTCC, the New York Stock Exchange, they're private corporations that are overseen the SEC, which is part of the government. They are designed as self-regulating organizations. That's a phrase that throws up some red Designating an organisation as self-regulating profit motive routine, subject to the approval If they want a new toy, they can have it, None of this means that self-regulating orgs but it means you can't just claim self-regulated why this vast conspiracy has invisibly rampaged The actual stock market and its mechanics way. They carry literal centuries of bad habits, We didn't end up with high-security bank it was the best system. The central depository model of clearing and kind of stuff that fuels beef between experts "Perhaps Professor Coogan's criticism of that they transfer the provisions on creation securities from article 9 to article 8. Practitioners under article 9 have been known practice which has traditionally been their Savage. All this is to say that criticisms of this very easy to misunderstand what you're looking The primary lens that Apes view this complex Because it is the one thing they know about matters. It is made compelling by the fact that short circles and has been for a very long time. It's been called "blatant thuggery" The Malaysian Finance Ministry wanted to cane punishment carried out on juveniles." During World War One, the New York Stock Exchange out of fear that German spies would utilise But for Apes, who were introduced to the concept Short everything that guy has touched. I want half a billion more in swaps. Short sales have the unique quirk of putting supply, and in a sense short sales do contain Now, there's a Nobel Prize in Economics element, but for Apes the theory alone is For them it goes to the furthest possible company stone dead. When taken in combination, short selling becomes financial terrorism. "Quite literally, whatever Retail buys, If an institution's holding it, it's not Why do you think Amazon became the most overpowered I work for the company - I can tell you. It's because Retail wasn't holding it. So then their ticker can go up because institutions One of the truly revolutionary moments in when Apes dredged up a conspiracy theory favoured they were being targeted for destruction by Naked short sales are kinda tricky to talk poisoned by these conspiracy theorists. A naked short sale is when you generate a first. It is a real thing, it is illegal and has for doing it, it was a historical problem, claim. The problem is compounded by the fact that naked short selling if you squint. So there's the real thing off over in the like, there's evidence of their crimes, by cranks where shadowy figures destroy companies The infuriating thing is that it really kinda bother to distinguish between regular short Apes start from "short sellers are the bad short selling, like stock lending which is you can't borrow a share unless someone's Apes only rope in a crank version of naked why there's no evidence of the short position short squeeze to still be on the table. So let's walk through it. In mid-March of 2021, a Reddit post on r/WallStreetBets the squeeze hadn't truly ended. "Anybody with a brain knows that GME is of this post, at $215/share" "The main talking point across all of the the fact that GME's short percentage reached But what does a 140% float mean? Did the hedge funds short/borrow more shares Well yes, that's called naked shorting but By the standards of present day theories, The redditor mistakenly believed that the purchasing shares created by market makers, of whether they own the asset at the time selling at times. To the author, the excessive short interest of at least 40% of the entire share count. That isn't sound, in fact it misunderstands In this instance, we've exceeded 100% short of the seller. No new shares have been created. A single share can be bought, lent, and sold parties willing to engage in the trade. Mere days later, an article would be discovered source for your oil and energy news. The article reframed the GameStop incident but as a skirmish between retail investors GameStop was the victim of a malicious short to the Canadian mining sector. This article would validate the Ape's anxieties: predicated on boring details about credit Wall Street has been doing stuff like this The squeeze needed to be killed because Apes As a conspiracy theory these narratives of convenient, impossible to disprove, but there's be 'debunked' like your typical conspiracy To this end Apes become very concerned about two separate ideas with their own implications. You need to have real ownership of real shares. As demonstrated earlier the subject of what built on centuries of jank, which makes it as fake ownership. Beneficial ownership via a broker is just shares out to short sellers, which means The term &quot;fake share&quot; refers to numerous different The specifics are irrelevant. It could be the dilutive effects of naked the Obligation Warehouse, the ghost of the to deliver - doesn't matter, they've churned fake shares might be coming from and might For Apes, trading is like a video game, and to find an exploit to steal Ken Griffin's The actual end boss that Apes are at war with GameStop at this point in March is still massively 2021 frenzy are either cashing out some sweet The Apes who are in really deep are convinced now, but it doesn't. It's volatile, it swings a lot on any given explanation they come up with is that clearly Normally short attacks are specific, identifiable investors and triggering a wider sell-off. To Apes, they are persistent, invisible, and as to defy all reason. Therefore, they must be occurring via naked the position... somehow. So logically if the only reason the price that must mean that GameStop is accruing more The actual short Interest in GameStop peaked situation and is the reason Melvin ate dirt, they valued the "true" short interest at this point. Within a year, history would be rewritten for the GME squeeze wasn't FOMO or memes, So the idea is that there are a handful of shares. Apes need to get their hands on these "real" funny. As an example, there is a theory that stock share - so some Apes try to exercise out-of-the-money They want to buy shares for more than their money. That kind of behaviour is indicative of an trying to manipulate the stock price, or is So intermediaries won't let you do it. When their request is refused, Apes go nuclear citizen-esque arguments as to why it's criminal right to lose money on purpose. But above all else, "true ownership" demands DRS allows the investors ownership of a security of the issuing company's Transfer Agent. It exists to make this circuitous mess more and it has a few legitimate functions. There's nothing 'wrong' with DRS as the point of being barely recognisable. Apes gravitate towards it initially as a catalyst 9000% short interest to close, and a belief that direct registration is the only way they'll MOASS, but it very quickly evolves into a "And you know it's always tomorrow until until I get paid and I DRS. DRS. DRS. DRS. DRS." The central depository model was built to quickly, it was built to be brutally efficient DRS, by design, reintroduces inefficiency It makes selling your shares more expensive, you to send important requests by mail. Like, with an envelope. That makes it a kind of symbolic castration. You're proving your conviction to the cause It's community policy to keep your entire it with your broker it means you're enabling and commit financial terrorism, and the only broker is if you were planning to sell. You aren't thinking of selling right? Having opted into DRS, the shareholder receives their ownership. These letters are regularly paraded on the demonstrating loyalty to the company. God, a lot of these have firearms. Somewhere within this process, the Ape ascends They hold real shares, entirely locked out So I want you to visualize this. You're hooked on watching the price of GameStop Whenever the price goes down, which it does to kill the squeeze, is illegally naked shorting week GME continues to accumulate more and That means that every day the theoretical In fact the plausibility of Citadel ever willingly grows more and more impossible. MOASS becomes inevitable. Once the conspiracy is unveiled, something to be fake at the same time it's revealed GameStop's value worth of GME. The short sellers now need to buy back "real" This alone would be absurd, but it gets worse. Under the "infinity pool" theory, Apes The supply will literally be zero, so the It's just supply and demand. The plan is to never let the short sellers in a basement and drip feed them one share money with each sale. The purported values are childish and totally dollars per share as we've seen. The limiter on this is naturally, you know, Citadel can't pay infinity dollars per share But don't worry: Apes have already mapped ""What if the unthinkable happens and 7 figures? The DTCC can only cover 67 trillion. What happens then?" "Then it goes to the Fed, Rog. The Fed has to turn on the printer. " Citadel will be vaporised the instant the to the central depository itself. A central depository has never defaulted before, But Apes have done their research and all bust, the first priority for compensation of all others. Like that 67 trillion figure suggests that portfolio to buy shares in GameStop. Once the depository defaults we get something the US government still has an obligation In the pure version of MOASS, Apes take up Their new market would be blockchain-based, to track down and return specific identifiable about being personally contacted by short 'MOASS realists' argue instead that the crisis, will simply cut a deal with the Apes. And whether Apes ought to squeeze the White movement. So, to sum up. MOASS is an infinite money glitch, built on to smother dying companies through naked short They do this through exploiting flaws in securities shares". GameStop avoided its execution because redditors And that positions GameStop as a catalyst a side-effect being that the US government of redditors... as a down payment for their So, that's the play. All the Apes need to do now is find evidence How hard can that be? Yeah, I'm picking up more GameStop, I'm I'm super excited for Bed Bath &amp; Beyond, a lot of good peer reviewed theories, some You know, Cohen's still in this play, Icahn's between those two. Icahn through Newell brands buys up Bed Bath Spins off Buybuybaby to Cohen, he merges that of GMErica, which lights the fuse on the rocket So, how do you prove that fake shares exist? The company will tell you how many shares outstanding share count. For example, here's GameStop's 10Q from 131 outstanding shares. But that is the number that is supposed to If you think fake shares are being introduced to check your work. You have to do a share count. True, rigorous investigations of share counts a good comparison to draw from. At minimum, it's a hugely disruptive process branch of the stock market. It's something GameStop lacks the authority it might foster uh, 'bearish sentiment' shares may be compromised - with no basis So it shouldn't be surprising that, to be acknowledged any part of the MOASS conspiracy... directly, wink wink nudge nudge. This means the Apes are on their own to expose The method Apes first latch onto is via shareholder We've already seen the issues that can arise Totally normal business transactions can resemble to work backward to solve for the initial after contains an unknown amount of fake shares. When a shareholder loans their share for a consider themselves a shareholder, but they you'd have one share providing two separate That gives you a hint of where this is headed. One share translates to one vote. So if every shareholder is involved in a vote, of the outstanding share count. If the number exceeds 100%, that has to be or dodgy voting. Over-voting is a real thing in Corporate governance, of us want to endure. Thankfully the Ape theory is extremely simple. They aren't trying to reveal a moderate there are dozens of times more shares in circulation bought far, far, far more than the 72 million As the phrase goes "Apes already own the "We know we own the float!" Let's set the scene here a little. It's April/May 2021, MOASS as a theory is corporate vote coming up on June 9th. Apes spend weeks whipping up support for the how to submit your vote to your broker, and truly, finally stick it to Wall Street, expose and trigger another squeeze. This was such a big deal that numerous Apes meeting in person, and thousands of Apes tuned this banal procedural vote with the gravitas suspense, for the results. [Rensole] Present- more than majority of Confirmed, more than majority [Atobitt] So there were more shares! [Elle] Yes! They confirmed there are more shares than... [Atobitt] That's 100% [Elle] no no no, they confirmed there are [Atobitt] That's what I'm saying, that's more If that's a direct quote, if you have that Because if we're saying &quot;more than majority&quot;, [Elle] No no no, it wasn't majority, they shares&quot; [Atobitt] Oh ---- that's huge! I'm waiting for that 8-K to come out and say We had hundred percent... hundreds of percent more than what I'm literally expecting hundreds of percentage [Rensole] But then in that aspect 'more it's still more than a majority, that's [Atobitt] But it was more than a majority [Rensole] Yeah. So, it didn't work, GameStop didn't announce should have even been possible, they just was high. This is actually how DRS entered this story Dr. Susane Trimbath, or Queen Kong as the to retail investors for thirty some odd years, since the number of shares that Apes presume number it should be trivial to demonstrate, out of the picture entirely. Thus began an even more intense campaign to the number of direct registered shares. This, this was a lock. Apes own the float after all, the crime is expose some truly unreasonable numbers, 80 registered shares in a company that only has then comes the reckoning. Yeah, that one didn't pan out, either. Okay, so the headband, maybe I should explain It's an homage. Really everything that I do is an homage to And at this point we need to talk about a in all of this who those familiar with the absent up to this point. This is Keith Gill aka DFV aka Roaring Kitty. He is simultaneously extremely important to to our story, and for that reason it is worth contradiction. To some he basically invented meme stocks, through which MOASS made itself known to the The reality, in contrast, is almost unrecognisable. In our reality he is a registered securities broker MassMutual. In his spare time he streams investment tutorials posts on Reddit under the handle DeepFuckingValue. Next slide. It is 2019 and Keith's hope is to become on his "roaring kitty" investment philosophy strategy. Next slide. As the working subject for this Keith has by Dr. Michael Burry, that GameStop is under-valued. The idea is pretty straightforward and honestly downwards for several years, but has historically the start of a new console generation, and Next slide. While consumer habits are shifting away from distribution for games in specific, and while and developers is no longer what it once was, about how much life is left in physical media. Long term, his view is that GameStop still to something more forward-looking, especially revenue in the near future. This is an argument that GameStop is trading at $8 to $10, and has the capability of going carry the 2020 holiday season. That's what I think I think about game stop. I think it is it is at least a double I think be a 45 bagger It could be looking out. I don't know looking out six to 18 months Next slide. Of course he couldn't have seen the coronavirus brick and mortar retail, with malls getting for both the retailers and their vendors. Next slide. Gill chips away at this thesis for over a stream highlights as standalone videos, and with other traders on Reddit, even as the as the ninth gen console launch is set to down the chain from raw materials to shipping Next slide. However as the meme stock craze takes root, unusually high short interest as a possible in on GameStop and willing to ride it out, Here is Keith on Christmas Day, 2020 discussing price target of $20. Hey, what's up everybody? Cheers! Happy Friday, happy holidays. I hope everyone's having a great week. Surprise!(...) Game stops up about 5x from when I uploaded to see. When you have a thesis and by and large it That's nice, so it shouldn't be taken for It doesn't always happen, so that's great. And yeah, it's just to clear up some potential This was a true YOLO for me. When I was building this position last year, I certainly do not drive a Lambo. We rent this house that you see, so it's been And it has been just so much fun to experience I hope you had some fun as well, and maybe elements along the way, all the better. But it has brought me tremendous joy to just bit of a case study, as some of us feel, and And if you have had a good time as well, that Next slide. When all was said and done at the end of January $25 million, for which Maxine Waters hauled questions about what the hell happened and and dump. Next slide. Keith, accurately in my opinion, insisted of the wave he was ultimately just another had been personally advocating GameStop as a year. "I also want to say that I support retail want when they want. I support the right of individuals to send As for me, I like the stock. I'm as bullish as I've ever been on a invested in the company. Thank you. Cheers everyone. Next slide. Apes read literally all of this as coded messaging. "I like the stock" became a shibboleth Next slide. Gill read the room and wisely peaced out. While he continued to participate in the scene mostly in the form of movie clips, the length grew increasingly disconnected from reality. Realizing that he was being elected to the any company he commented on, would be baked take action on, and that such a position posed wealth and his personal safety should he fall in late June of 2021 he unplugged his social eye. Next slide. Gill has been retroactively recruited into Everything that Apes convinced themselves of failures-to-deliver, the need to DRS, has Here, for example, is a post from 2023, just public post, that outright advocates for conspiratorial pure gold", and assumes absolute homogeneity is to say that this poster believes DFV believes Next slide. The poster signs off, of course, with "follow Next slide Although he almost certainly sold most if off into early retirement to raise his family, there hodling to this day, cheering them on via Reddit awards. "Can you verify that that's a thing?" "Can I prove that DRS works?" "Yeah" "Well DRS has never been disproven. We just gotta, we just gotta trust the plan." One of the things that gets litigated repeatedly makes a meme stock. I've actually got a conspiracy-laden email In January 2021, there was no such thing as Despite the SEC itself putting out a report was not related to shorts closing), there stock' really is. However, examples of meme securities apparently The term 'meme stock' in reference to GME investors without directly singling out a bringing more attention to the company whose institutions. On one hand "meme stock" is basically stocks even if they aren't penny stocks, hand is an attempt at identifying the why Bed Bath and Beyond, in an April 2023 court meme stock and why they felt it applied to The two characteristics that they identify and nostalgia value. That's kinda a workable definition, but with trying to pin down what a meme stock A meme stock in May 2023 isn't the same The original meme stocks in the fall of 2020, contrarianism. It's not that there's a narrative of a and it's not the nostalgia value, though Those were not the leading motives; what makes buying stock in a failing company past its The thing that truly separates a meme stock act of buying in and of itself becomes the and inherently gamified exercise. As more and more people start piling in it cause and effect, as simple and abstract as In 2023, though, that wave has crested and are still around, and, as we'll see, the stone-faced dedication to a perceived cause. So what is a meme stock? It's a stock whose play rests entirely on company under assault that serves as a proxy economy, the vessel through which the true rebirth the world into a golden age. It is a stock that is a candidate for MOASS. While any stock with a high short interest three businesses would rise to the top to Theatres, and Bed Bath and Beyond. Now, companies tend to have high short interest market share, lacklustre product, poor reputation, one reason, they're unprofitable and not So it's important to note that the self-selection by the theory of MOASS, is going to intrinsically "Yeah, so I've thought about putting one a DD. I mean, like, check out all of these awards It's pretty long, but that's good, right. The longer it is the more due the diligence." Following the vote, the Apes were faced with Either they accept the results of their own made a mistake, or they preheat the oven and overvote didn't occur. You don't need to be told which way they After the June 2021 shareholder meeting there - the goalposts shifted and damage control Immediately it began to circulate that an the meeting, and it was in fact foolish to Conspiracy theories formed to explain the Some Apes were prevented from voting, brokers them to GameStop. GameStop isn't allowed to admit the overvote Whatever explains away the negative test result. The previous months of research became shockingly produced an unfavourable result. And within a few months history had just been The experiment did demonstrate the overvote, This is Ape "research", and it's worth Due diligence is the process of gathering that explores the whole package: the company's likely technological or societal changes in of the company for better or worse, how many their product, it can get as intense as hiring make sure a mine actually exists. Because this is a real thing that real investors became an entire genre of post on Ape forums. There is a delicate line for us to walk here. Learning and collaboration are... good. I would love to stand here and tell you that to invest and better each other's lives. It's a great story, indeed that's how But this is not that, this is something very Making money on the stock market isn't 'difficult' has a plan. But Apes don't want portfolios that outperform that cripple financial institutions while Ape Due Diligence, or DD for short, is uh, It is mythology cloaked in the veil of research. At the base layer the first generation of and dump. It's a bad starting point, because these with the subject matter and poor judgement. Like a lot of victims of stock scams, many many have a poor grasp of English. As a collective group they were weaned on threads on WallStreetBets and very simple That's the kind of material they're trained in by declaring "I'm just a smooth brained if my tits should be jacked?" Rhetoric and the broad strokes are what matter. You need to understand that shorts never closed, to hate Ken Griffin with every atom of your But paradoxically, Apes sincerely believe a sequel to the Big Short that has yet to So while the details are irrelevant, they their own original research. The majority of this early 'seminal DD' well after January - many being verifiable People who would be writing essays on securities trade. We know this because the authors will just a short summary of why the author shouldn't They will often admit that they barely understand have attempted it anyway for the benefit of The pitfalls are obvious. Like your standard breed of crackpot, Apes a big problem. They are pursuing their chicken tenders. When they skipped the first 3 textbooks on Melvin Capital, they skipped over some fundamentals. But you won't find Ken Griffin's secret management. Rather than backtrack, Apes forged ahead into for "the truth". Like, some of the crap we had to read. "Furthermore the lender is being asked to the simple pledge, but one which perforce property. The history of developing new security interests might give pause to even that rara avis, the When dealing with documents this intense, way a layman can deal with it is through decoding You pull out a fragment of a lecture or thesis the diamond in the rough. The rest is interpreted through speculation It's a very unsound way to approach research to the class. Analogy is a favourite of the Ape Author. Analogy in academia is used to bolster the to these ideas through the Big Short, analogies Essentially using the same language as Margot It's not just lightly-informative entertainment, If the rocket is launched without preparation While the small explosives are going off and have a lot more volatility. The powers that be will try to dampen that a small ignition could set this bitch off. I believe the plan is to do controlled detonations off. ComputerShare works a bit like a heat lamp, for the reader. Their thought process is so shamefully reverse of the confirmation bias just to guard against And it needs to be repeated; an unbelievable of clearing and settlement come from random Like, even if you presume that material is a public comment on an upcoming piece of legislation legislation has been introduced. That is how you get the Apes frothing over They jumped in a time machine from the 2020s about naked short selling, which itself was subject from the 80s. This leaves... gaps. The result of all of this is a truly specular collective understanding of the thing they Despite becoming an increasingly ambitious scheme in just a few weeks. You just buy GameStop shares and hold until you become a gorillionaire. Ape DD can only function to reproduce existing to new issues. Even the papers that look like they're doing It's bad practice to cite a date or price are 'soon' and 'infinite'. And all of this is regulated by the mechanism Some of this may be evoking memories of QAnon, is non-trivial, for the most part it is simply its ideas are shaped by populism and Reddit's DD that the community approves of is showered there's an incentive, emotional and in some Atobitt was a late-arrival to the squeeze, of March, and by the 14th he posted his first By April 22 he posted the first in a series to the point that it was temporarily the top And naturally it is almost entirely gawking Atobitt was conferred a level of status that herself as among the movements most prestigious He became something of an influencer, complete opus, which tragically we will never get. He didn't acquire this reputation through what they wanted. For DD to be accepted, it needs to be simple. It can be long, but the whole thing needs Because the most important thing is that it - and no one will read your DD if you don't All of this is enforced through the upvote DD that meets the community's criteria gets spreads fear, uncertainty, and doubt, is aggressively Regardless of the rigour of any individual It is the ideal circumstances for critical The Apes get to pick and choose what facts create mythology. This is why the MOASS theory can stand tall The actual mechanics are interchangeable. Initially they misunderstood how 140% short Stock Borrow Program, and while it proved a better alternative. Even though the stock borrow program is baked - they can substitute it with at least half The failure of the overvote just proves how Each theory is just a stepping stone to the They can never be proven wrong if they never them. Real due diligence is as much an argument argument to buy in. Good due diligence will argue the worst case what if a new product just sucks ass and no news or will it fold in half? Ape DD exists to keep MOASS alive. As time went on, decoding became a more and This started innocently enough initially. Keith Gill, Ryan Cohen and Michael Burry were Whether it was Ryan Cohen's official statements or Gill communicating with Apes through gifs but they weren't substantive. There was not a deep meaning to Ryan Cohen meme about himself. But this normalised the idea that these figures And since these guys were never available decoding techniques that grew more and more... let's say ambitious. "DFV Roaring Kitty tweet Deciphered!! 1627 has to do with Naked Shorting Options SEC rule 10b-21" "Can you explain the connection just so "All I am coming up with is a couple of "Are we saying this painting is from 1627? "This painting is from a Wes Anderson movie." "But the roman numeral on the right side "How's that tied to naked shorting? "GME, Rick and Morty. How the show might be hinting at us about via their own greed." "This is how the 1% sees us." "Candidly I've seen no evidence so-called But many of you disagree..." "I love it. Basically saying, "Who am I to say the hedge I guess we'll just pull back the curtain "Adam Aron saying there's no evidence Just think about it, when he does pounce, Because he'll have evidence of the exact "To a person with @uti$m, words mean something. Every word does. Every symbol.... every unwritten, suggestive We're really good at giving clues and seeing We notice patterns and algorithms that normal And cryptic language is often our bread and Yes, DFV, MJBurry, even Papa Cohen are communicating cryptic means. And their messages are important. Remember... every word means something to an @uti$t." No surprise that by June, Keith Gill stopped It got to the point where AMC CEO Adam Aron "M", and Apes became fixated on decoding Despite Aron's efforts to dispel the fervour, that the M was significant. "Yesterday I tweeted an "M" by mistake, candid in the denial, and that the M must Nope, just a tweeting error. But today I am tweeting this, and it does "Question for the tin-foils: why did he text and &quot;Y&quot;?" "I think it's 11. Can't figure it out." Ryan Cohen, the chairman of the board of GameStop, Carl Icahn, the guy Oliver Stone based Gordon which immediately cast Icahn as a saviour As conspiratorial techniques like this became the line between 'vetted DD' and 'speculation' Now, the "solid AF DD" was already often speculation, but there was a clear shift over After the failed shareholder vote, naturally All of these exist to answer the same question, Why aren't we seeing the answer we expect The answer is almost always that the debt previously unknown to Apes. Since the Ape understanding of the market "wrinkle brain explains short squeeze", So we start to see more and more out-there about dark pools, options, ETFs and so on, pure thesis based on the naked short conspiracy. Maintaining a stable community built entirely is tricky. To get them through this Apes police sentiment Even crypto, a product wholly at the mercy than Apes because they are nominally willing They'll spin bad news like the collapse pretending that it's culling out bad actors, Since MOASS is basically a fantasy untethered to not buy in get longer and longer as time and isn't permissible to talk about also MOASS is, when you break it down, market manipulation The big, theoretical payout only works if everyone involved has both the personal incentive and knows that everyone else has that same It is a philosophy that demands extremely You buy and you hold. Discussing exit strategy is derided as "price Remember, the gains are not theoretically This leads directly to unhinged memes about one single share. It leads to stories about the post-MOASS world shares at all ever, they just live off the lives, and for the lives of their children, where one, single share confers wife-changing Sharp eared listeners may have noticed that be asking the logical follow up question "where Don't worry about it. In fact, why are you so concerned with what Are you just here to spread FUD and undermine I'm just an individual investor who likes and cash-flow-positive backed by an unprecedented their shares in order to combat corruption FUD is literally anything that casts any amount "I don't believe that GME will be worth doesn't seem possible." FUD! "Why wouldn't the price peak and then FUD! "I should probably set an exit threshold going to be selling, too, and I don't want FUD! "No, but for real, where does the money FUD FUD FUD FUD! Direct registration mutated extremely quickly concrete crimes with objective numbers, a a spell that if executed correctly would create A specific quirk of the narrative of MOASS, war with the short hedge funds, leads to various like the belief that anyone who is not on opposition. The rubberneckers mocking Apes on r/GME_meltdown but hired "shills" planted in Ape communities them and convince them to sell their shares course predicated on the belief that there's on the belief that there's some truly unfathomable et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. This is a clever word inversion. An actual shill is someone who stands off hype man. They posture as just a random independent interest in the thing that they are helping A shill wants you to buy something. Naturally, SuperStonk and the other derivative telling people to buy and promoting the virtue Here's a DD post literally structured for The reason the DD posts have so many awards the system to shill GME to r/All. They're not coordinating, though. They're all just individual investors coming with their Reddit awards. In light of the community being 98% shilling to re-define the word so that all the shills So in Ape circles a "shill" is any unbeliever. Predictably this arrangement where anyone is a hired shill fosters an air of paranoia the idea of, you know, asking very reasonable any other investment forum. This paranoia extends to policing maintenance uncoordinated series of individual decisions. "Everyone's like 'I wanna make a lot And it's like aye here's what I found' me too yeah me too - and then like we realise individually then as a group confirmed and to the top and that's how you get research, This both feeds the narrative that their behaviour the product of genuine rigour. And this has the added bonus of providing Now, while it's true that it's unlikely John Doe defendants- Apes seem aware that They are looking to collectively engineer get you in trouble if you did it solo, so the movement as best they can, and it's "Edit 2: Removed some "we"s etc from that phrasing my exit strategy like I originally manipulation. In the end, anyone reading this is just an their own money." Users will incant "this is not financial with the same energy as "no copyright infringement upload of Dances With Wolves to YouTube. "This is not financial advice, legal advice. For entertainment purposes only. Anything I say is my personal opinion please anything I say in these videos that being all that the YouTube algorithm stuff so you "GameStop is operating smarter than ever And that's what people just don't understand media FUD - and that's just why I think Of course, this is just my opinion. You literally should take my opinion with I'm telling you a stock is gonna go way literally just a guy on the internet, why They don't collude, instead there's an to describe the abstract notion of shares It speaks to their insecurity on whether they're probably well-founded. Because sure, the US government wrote off let everyone off the hook, but if the Apes risk collapsing the US or global economy after the US federal government would sooner make billions of dollars for his shares in GameStop. The whole of Ape culture is persuasive in existing social anxieties. We are collectively primed for these narratives of distrust in financial institutions married and a financial reality of stagnant wages the market is the only possible way to build And that's just the stuff that's rooted Ape motivations are ultimately pretty simple. Their lore is complex, but their reasons are They're gambling addicts who are starved The whole meme stock ecosystem actually makes as it is, since it combines all the addictive soap opera. Every day there's something new, there's and downs, though mostly downs. If it's not price action then it's new It's very easy to compartmentalize as entertainment, the family finances. Money is really easy to abstract away at the it's reduced and gamified and when so much Apps like Robinhood have already come under the market, but even if that weren't a factor for one another and frame everything in the fights, grinding, and completionism. That's already addictive, and it just upgrades conspiratorial mindsets and the attendant Gordon Pennycook, an associate professor at paper Overconfidently Conspiratorial, argues minded isn't narcissism or a need to feel traits in conspiracy circles, but excessive This is anecdotally intuitive to anyone who but it is this overconfidence that leads to that they accurately understand complicated me the most interesting claim of the paper, is, in fact, in the majority. The entire thing with Apes policing negative of that, in the way that they have an itchy time DD writers, a paid shill if they say theory. In the Ape mind the only possible reason to by short sellers who are trying to kill the you're being paid to. The Ape thesis is, to them, so self-evident, everyone already believes it. Inevitably this leads to pinnacle echo chamber trusted, anyone talking about Apes is engaging because why else would you care about Apes The inevitable synthesis of this thinking go out of business for any reason other than Sears, Blockbuster, Toys R Us, hell, Enron, sellers. This is a lens on the world necessary to recast not as self-serving greed, but altruism. Virtue has been a part of the rhetoric since Investors were engaged to buy and hold to let the little guy have his fair share.' We won't say that people didn't genuinely that narrative would be to convince Apes to stake at $400 a share. The continuing escalation of the antagonism morality. They are very much the good guys who are saving But at the same time, they have, you know, of money. They do that vile thing where 'every share You know, a tribute that involves doing the GameStop shares. This sandwich? This is a tribute to my grandpa. Rest in peace, Jack. This creates fascinating and harrowing conflicts Some Apes are here just for the money, and to be cringeworthy. But in the fiction, they are literally involved entities on the planet - and are in order When they take the reins of the economy - they sovereigns. It's a full blown saviour complex. "We will make the world better, whether globally. We are here to fix the world that Wall Street We will use our tendies for good. And, perhaps, get a Lambo in the process (or, But at the same time, they see the immense they have endured, billions of dollars in they catch at family gatherings. They resent the fact that no one takes them tension with a very intense urge to rub all proven right. Because we all had our chance. "Beyond the toys you are going to buy, who That's what matters. Because there are plenty of people to help. Now you can't help everybody, you can't they had their chance, okay? They coulda got in, they could have done their tried to tell them over dinner we tried to They had their chance. (laugh)" Because Apes are so disconnected from actual an endless supply of Great Disappointments, missed hype dates, deconstructed gamma ramps, of these unprofitable companies continues It's just, it's kinda really, really funny that a drop in the value of GameStop is a valued well above even their most profitable As with any other apocalyptic belief placed fragmentation. One group says that DRS is the way, but Apes an argument breaks out about Plan accounts Another group says that Plan vs Book doesn't harder. Both groups accuse the other of being paid mislead the community. A late game DD theory is the belief in a turnaround Bed, Bath, and Beyond or GameStop or, hilariously, MOASS-like valuations based entirely off strong "And the MOASS is irrelevant because what GME purists hold to a pure form of MOASS that's Which rapidly turned into a spiritual loyalty "Yeah, I didn't, I didn't actually buy DD, then Ryan Cohen, he makes this play into just gets super hype about it. And yeah anything the man touches is gold. Like, he's, he's a kingmaker. He's the book king. So, who is Ryan Cohen? Ryan Cohen is a bored billionaire who fancies of failing companies. He made his money selling the online pet food with a combination of venture capital and The official story of Chewy admits that they but they hired a bunch of executives from those suckers aren't cheap, so logical deduction money there. Next slide please. Ryan Cohen ran Chewy as a tech company, burning they were bought out for $3.35 billion in When the company went public in 2019 the company year 2018, Cohen's final year as CEO. Next slide. In September 2020 as the meme stock wave was 10% stake in GameStop, believing that the Cohen wrote an open letter to the GameStop faith in GameStop's potential if they would On Thursday December 17th, 2020 he increased All three of these events were catalysts for In August, GameStop was trading below $5, $19. Next slide please. An activist investor is an investor who buys their weight around and tries to take an active the fact that they didn't actually give Next slide. On January 11th, 2021 it was announced that and then in April Cohen was made the chairman. Cohen made bold promises of a transformation Next slide, please. Objectively Ryan Cohen isn't good at actually value. GameStop's "turnaround" has resulted centres that were closed shortly thereafter, global operations, and the launch of an NFT its 10-K annual report as "not material fiscal 2022." Next slide. Ryan Cohen's one material impact on any investor is that he is followed by Apes who, run, have elevated him to a messianic role, scenes" to engineer MOASS, and thus follow Next slide. This irrationally passionate fanbase has succeeded valuation well above the company's actual highly annoying, a burden for management to "So what I'm going to do right now is if they are hiring. "That's Ryan Cohen Strategy." "Yeah, I like the guy. I Don't know if you like him, but I like him You know who I'm talking to. You know who I'm talking about right? No, you never heard about Ryan Cohen. If you're working in GameStop that name should So right now what I notice is a lot of layoffs aggressively recruiting people in GameStop GameStop and Bed Bath and Beyond" "Wow. I, I don't even know how that works because and Bed, Bath &amp; Beyond..." "The whole the whole thing is gonna change" All right, so That's the plan. So GameStop is merging with Bed Bath and Beyond(...) He's not sitting as a chairman in This company No, he's not he's hiring, aggressively hiring the only one who knows this answer is Ryan Apes have taken to decoding any and all communication they can point to as indications that he is be very bad news for Apes if he were, in fact, Next slide please. No one wants to work with him. Given the poor material performance of GameStop Bed Bath and Beyond and Nordstrom both told buy his way into power. "You know, really, at the end of the day Like, they targeted gamers. We, we know what it means to just grind a game. So, like, locking the float. We can grind that out. We know what that takes. DRSing everything? You know, all of it? We can do that." Compared to GameStop and AMC, companies with have some connection to the nostalgia of youth, until you realise that the Apes just followed When Cohen first disclosed his stake in Bed Bath's largest intraday percentage price Some investors bought in due to uncritical Bed Bath play was a MOASS master stroke. Others believed he would genuinely rescue in early on the next pump and dump. Whatever the specific reason, we're only of Cohen. Cohen bought into Bed Bath, because it was cut and dry. Likewise, there is no nuance to Bed Bath's It's a brick and mortar retailer that was Already declining sales, a failed pivot to supply chain disruptions, poor relations with program loading the company with debt created couldn't stock its shelves. The company reached the point of allegedly Why Ryan Cohen thought he could right this But it's fair to say that he didn't have Presumably he intended to rapidly work his Instead, the board resisted Cohen's influence settled on an agreement to prevent a hostile Cohen was fixated mainly on Bed Bath's baby that "under the right circumstances, BABY other ecommerce-focused retailers, and justify The claim, already loaded with caveats, was Bed Bath, and we know now that it was hogwash, without the subsidisation of Bed Bath's by Apes over a year later. So, in August he decided to divest his interest kids might call... Sus. Cohen initially bought a 9.8% stake in the the filing of a Schedule 13D. But in the time following Cohen's purchase, a share buyback, which reduced the number ownership to 11.8% without him personally As a seemingly irrelevant preamble, on the full moon emoji" in reply to a scathing He was required to update all the paperwork but didn't file the necessary Form 3 indicating close of trading on August 15. By now it should be clear that Apes... aren't So when they saw this, they either thought with the tweet, he was signalling to them emoji. On the following morning, before trading opens, the new number. Apes again, see this as bullish AF, and go by 70% over the course of August 16. Cohen then submits a Form 144 to the SEC, Bed Bath shares in the last 3 months but was After this submission, Cohen then divests pocketing $68 million in profit on his initial The Form 144, stating Cohen's intention the 17th. This spreads mass Ape confusion. Finally on the 18th, Cohen amends the Schedule Bath two days earlier. And that ends Cohen's "long-term" involvement Now, whether this constituted misconduct from but it is a question worth asking. Unfortunately we may never get an answer, on this matter is ongoing, it's a mess. A self-represented Ape raced to the courts lawsuit that put forth an unhinged account According to the Complaint, Ryan Cohen had of a conspiracy with Bed Bath's CFO, who JP Morgan was in on it for some reason. It's bad. The Complaint is littered with factual errors, from end to end. The case was wrestled off the Ape and an "amendment" only so much the new team can do to alter So it's unlikely that anything meaningful If a jury were to find that Cohen's behaviour into the market, it would be a textbook example It would be a situation in which retail investors said manipulation. Yet remarkably, despite this being a lawsuit of many Apes remains with Cohen, so they cheer This is the end of Ryan Cohen's involvement We aren't aware of him so much as mentioning November of 22 "My views changed, of the business, and And yet, rather than Apes accepting what's genius activist investor who would make them a dying retailer, Ape's started to bake. The decoding goes up a whole new level. At this point there is absolutely no communication so they need to both uncover the secret messages Cohen said he was in Bed Bath for the long-term, Did he lie? Did he rapidly pivot when things didn't always intended to reassure Apes that he was The myth quickly became that Cohen didn't Instead, Cohen had to work from the shadows, who didn't want anything to do with him, This is when we get that Carl Icahn tweet. Apes took this to be definitive evidence of endgame was to merge GameStop and Bed Bath "Deal's already done. We still don't know where Icahn's son is at. RC's yet to reveal himself, Icahn has to be Oh yeah, look at IEP falling, man, the timing come on, they, like These people who don't you out and gaslight you into shit, but honestly man I'm is And then... and then in November of '22 called Teddy. These are mediocre pro-capitalist pablum, a billionaire libertarian who is bored out of others. Apes, of course, fired up the industrial ovens baked before. "Ryan's Children's books are actually hidden Just look at those titles! China? Money? Running the world? Words can't hurt you(FUD)???? It's the only way he can legally communicate "My daily tin foil... What up with the pattern on Teddy's signature &quot;I know people think these easter eggs are the 10th (Teddy Day) and the 13th (Teddys Also Merger Monday." China is an anagram of Icahn, Teddy goes to That means Ryan has approached Icahn about The books teach literal children to not put means that GME holders should also buy Bed When it's 1:50 the clock hands point to 10, 2, 12, 1, and 50 become valid readings If you save your money you can buy ice cream, your TREATS, which is another way of signalling "I want to be the book king" - clearly General TSO's chicken!? Tokenized Security Offerings! It was rumoured that Cohen was going to be But then also Cohen tweeted about James Cameron's films in the history of human existence, and a potential announcement, and wouldn't you National TEDDY bear day, and the re-release This is it! This is Teddy day! Ryan Cohen is going to be announcing an acquisition China, read Icahn, where he's going to spin form GMErica. "Exactly. And the shills call it all crazy conspiracy Fucking r---s. RC can't just come out and say oh hey guys - get ready to be rich on a specifically called He said all he could say through the books. if you are really patient, one day you will while taking care of your family and friends." "As I see it guys, these guys are expanding flare - 'hey, we're getting So now what can happen for GameStop, GameStop they have it all set out the map is there. He's been building it in secret behind everything And now you have a partnership." Let's take a moment and just marinate on We've gone from vaguely-legitimate if poorly mechanics to staring at illustrations of an coded financial advice from the patterns on There's really only one way this can go. "It is a reality that business often make to wasteful pet projects or failing to adapt So we've reached a point where Apes are in and buy out Bed Bath and Beyond. Their evidence for this is overwhelmingly via literal children's books. Their grasp on reality has totally frayed Every Bed Bath statement was a coded message, sellers. This meant that as Bed Bath continued to decline, In January, 2023 Bed Bath and Beyond defaulted missed an interest payment on three tranches This is bad, this is "we are completely In response to this they were approached by presented them with a deal that was completely The deal is commonly referred to as "death alongside Hudson Bay at that moment and offered same. These deals are the last resort, where the of capital up front, and in exchange they extent is necessary for them to earn their A company signing a deal like this is the every alternative. The basic arrangement of the deal is that Bed Bath for a lump sum of money, then these shares that Hudson can immediately sell on generated based on the lump sum divided by sweet discount just to make sure that Hudson These are called "death spiral financing" dilution. The financer buys preferred shares for a fixed of shares, and then dumps those shares on price via dilution alone if not compounding confidence. The share price going down means that the into even more common shares, which will further block into even more shares, and over and In a mere six and a half weeks Hudson more Beyond shares in existence. Apes' diamond-handed buy-at-any-cost irrationality, tout as their secret weapon against the hedgies, to turn their profit. The grim irony that Apes are so predictably funds and short sellers that it leaves them at the hands of hedge funds and short sellers, The capital Hudson Bay offered was used to any of the structural problems with the business, time. The Hudson Bay deal was terminated after less fell under a dollar and showed no signs of And through this, the whole time, Apes denied was the cause of the decline in the share the buyer, mocked the Wall Street Journal's matter", and denied that Bed Bath and Beyond Bath was actively warning them of. "We need the proceeds from the Transactions Credit Facilities and Senior Notes and to will likely file for bankruptcy protection The issuance of the securities in this offering of the existing holders of our common stock Trading in our securities is highly speculative This is the context in which Heat Lamp is A conspiracy whose every element is reverse-engineered Critically in-curious, Heat Lamp is baseless away the continued failure to Apes to crash Okay, so, so get this. What if. What if we assume ComputerShare has an algorithm and this algorithm works like a heat lamp The algorithm moves shares into the DTCC in So, what Wall Street is doing is rolling up The staff start making hamburgers and putting But wouldn't you know, the customers are So now the DTCC can borrow the hamburgers which can be used to cover Citadel's illegal hamburgers to the diner as if they were the The perfect crime. But this wasn't the part of Heat Lamp that That hamburger metaphor was buried inside even pull any usable soundbites, it's just The author's prior attempts at sharing this mockery, resulting in mods putting the threads So the core of Heat Lamp is this beautiful that his ideas are important and deserve to The bulk of Heat Lamp is scathing accusations the mods - claiming that this banger of a the interests of ComputerShare, and therefore It's full blown McCarthyism. And that rhetoric is what the Apes took from The Ape influencers find themselves more and who nurtured fascist audiences. They need to play to the crowd or risk being During the scripting of this video, Atobitt, who you've been seeing constantly, deleted on by expressing waiving faith in the ability Atobitt, like so many other DD authors before u/[deleted]. The soap opera conspiracy twists and turns, The really sinister element of all this is addictive. Ape forums are littered with statements and addicts. Apes are constantly talking about their plans more, how they can't wait for their paycheque and Beyond. They use contrarian sentiment to justify their The price goes down? Buy more. The price goes up? Buy more. Bad news? Buy more. Good news? Buy more. Thanks for the tasty dip. They suppress the price, I buy more out of They hide their habit from friends and family, GameStop they buy, and brag about going behind They take money from friends and family while DD" they found on Reddit and pour it all they believe have been elected as the candidates The entire idea of dollar-cost-averaging, into pure delusional cope of "averaging In their minds it's a sure play, so of course thus improve your return, but even then, within is supposed to go to phone book numbers, then was. It's just an exercise in sunk costs, catching "As for me, after holding from $350 to $40, Every price drop is a discount and another The performative aspects are irony-poisoned A lot of the Ape lore is easily discarded they ultimately know it's not true. The hype, the tinfoil, the Cohencidences, are the social performances needed to maintain of a gambling addiction whose only hope for It's the justification and distancing, the vast amounts of time, energy, and money dumped will still always keep one foot grounded where going to happen! That was just hype! For fun!" The thing that January 2021 demonstrated was sensible, sane reason beyond a bunch of people enough other people to believe, and if it But that constant double-think, the constant fake ideas purely to maintain energy in a performance to lure in new participants because armour cracks and you admit out loud that falls apart, reality becomes true, and then a toll. The illusion must be defended at all costs, [Sentimental music] On April 23, 2023, Bed, Bath, and Beyond filed Despite the staggering dilution deal, the to get ahead of its debts, most of which were only ended in late 2022, long after the start Over the course of May and June they sold obligations here, a building there, inventory, anything a price could be attached to was their creditors. Apes, of course, willfully immune to reality bullish. This would be painful but necessary, but when happened, Bed Bath would still pay off handsomely. This was founded on absolutely nothing, rooted the company failed to directly deny. The company itself had been warning them since of the common shares would receive nothing. Even in Bed Bath's initial bankruptcy petition current equity was simply off the table. Critics who predicted that the Hudson deal liquidation in chapter 7 up to a managed liquidation Literally nothing that Apes predicted came a movement that refused, categorically, to "Trading prices for our securities may bear if any, by holders of our securities" Bankruptcy proceedings plodded along and the Teddy Icahn partnership NFT dividend reward In early June the deadline for the stalking at a time, from the 1st to the 8th to the Since the stalking horse bid sets the tempo were that the bids submitted were all relatively any move for the company itself and the company and rustle up a better offer. Rumours in the Ape universe were that the needed more time to properly evaluate the offerings of GameStop and Icahn Enterprises Again, Icahn's sole actual involvement in a photo with him. The actual stalking horse bid, selected on offering $21.5 million for the company's databases. Chalk another W for the Wall Street Journal Finally, September 29th, 2023, the company released, and extinguished" all shares in Those intangible legal rights, the actual And you might hope that that would be the isn't. See, there's always something to grasp on The shares may be legally void, but it'll to remove the worthless husks from Apes' keeping laws and just low priority. So that's years and years where an ever-dwindling can hold out hope that Ryan Cohen will swoop in a company that doesn't even exist. The apocalypse is always just one more day Apes are in a lot of ways the funhouse mirror They're not anti-Wall Street. They're tsundere for Wall Street. They want to be scrappy, important, savvy seized it. They quote The Wolf of Wall Street and The as. Sure, they say they hate Wall Street, but over funnelling more and more of their money There's a desire, an instinct, to try and market, to invalidate their approach as a entirely separate. It can be said that the Apes aren't engaging a claim to some percent of the company, but vessel of value. Given the overlap between crypto apes and DogeCoin, it's really the same behaviour. An accurate criticism of the Ape system is price of the shares from the value of the Bed Bath &amp; Beyond are saying as much in their The Ape counter-criticism is that this is just doing what the big players do. And this is a compelling conflict of ideas, There is an argument to be made that in one and story are the driving forces of the stock service, that fundamentals only matter insofar After all, the whole exercise is a game of things that haven't happened, but you believe storytelling. Both groups are telling a story and just sort to the narrative that justifies its conclusions, of the system. Really the only major difference is that the merely wishful thinking based on suggestive Nothing in Ape psychology is new: addiction we are all vulnerable to these in some degree, takes on whole new forms. Apes are, as a result of their conflict with further targeted by confidence men and other Some of them grift the Apes for low-stakes theories and gain support for their political It can be difficult to have empathy for Apes They are conspiratorially minded and, thus, of which dovetail into express antisemitism, mere extreme ideologies. As addicts they regularly make terrible decisions They talk often about stealing from their as they spend all the money in the shared Many are profoundly unhappy in their relationships, money and how much they resent their partners. Of course it's easy to see how that resentment They lie, they steal, they recruit relentlessly, recognize their brilliance. They stress every relationship they are involved their reckless gambling; it's no mystery days. These groups and movements appeal to entitled their psychology and socialization is addictive The narrative of participation flatters them, investors who are beating the system at its They cannot leave, quit, or even mentally window of the next big play. When the Due Diligence and Quantitative Theory it's easy, even logical, for the upsides behaviour, no matter how craven or irrational, It's tempting to see apes in their full the dip" and thanking Ken for "the discount" "you know what, they brought this on themselves." But no one deserves to be exploited like this. No one deserves to get shaken down by grifters but to become grifters themselves and shake No one deserves to have their ego and security escape, no reason to step back and admit defeat, Ironically the biggest winners in all of this Sure, Keith and a few others made bank off their gains away. Hedge funds on the other hand have been able irrationality. Melvin ate dirt in '21 and closed up shop Bets as a recruiting ground and Hudson Bay just buy and hold through massive dilution It is, as a phenomenon, an incredibly fraught do you respond to this? Setting aside bigger, broader questions about in the immediate term to a group of investors but a fundamentally flawed understanding of The grim irony of Ape culture is that it has without actually gambling. See, if it were a gamble, if they were truly some actual odds of winning. Apes like to talk about "high risk and high companies they're betting on continue to like that assume that the thing you're betting The weakest team in the league can, theoretically, That's a high risk, high reward bet. Apes, on the other hand, with their theories secret reverse triangle mergers, with their sale even works, they're sitting around there's a secret rule, that if you hit 31 tray. So hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. And a cold wind is blowin' and the children For the record, I have read the entire United American Congress, November 6, 1978. It has given me an incredible understanding filed on Kroll, given understanding to previously-omitted and I will be referencing United States Law involved with this company. Plus we clearly have figured out the game in a vice. If it's not this play we move to the next. The honey hole has been exposed. It feels like we're driving backwards really the secret level in Ready Player One is going and win. The fact that so many shills spend so much at us to explain what assets are left, how so many humans spend so much time on something bullish. The short hedge funds biggest mistakes in to the ground which they succeeded but that's investor "know your enemy", now they are So now Apes can buy really low and the upside If you like this prediction, I also have a