Welcome to an extra-extra-extra-special three extras? Well, first extra, it's the 100th first 99 videos. It's been quite a journey :) For the first time, I'm collaborating with artist Henry Segerman just published a video have more to say about Henry and his wonderful this video. Now, most importantly, third extra, mathematical history. I'll tell you about a couple good old sphere that so far only a handful of invited to opening night, a mathematical premier this kind of baggage carousel, right? Really you think? What makes this work is that the of have circular sides that can seamlessly rotate create a circle-shaped conveyor belt. And then like this. Very pretty isn't it? :) On close circle gets turned inside out. Have another to the centre of the circle end up on the outside so what? Is there any more to this? Well, let's Whoa, that animation really turned out very nice, don't you turn the hemisphere inside out. What on Earth is inspection it turns out to be approximately a In fact, by using thinner and thinner moons, the cylinder minus a true cone. There, thinner moons. hemi-sphere inside out like this doesn't affect hemisphere is equal to that of the cylinder minus that's a tricky one, right? One of Archimedes' trick, all we have to do to find this tricky from the volume of the cylinder, and then double. is just base times height. AND, with the height the volume of the cylinder pans out to be pi R^3. of cylinder things, also pretty easy. So go from the hemisphere to the sphere gives the r^3. From baggage carousel to the tricky volume How great is that? :) Definitely made my day when a mathematician at the University of Newcastle other ingenious sphere related ideas to me. And ideas :) What I'll do next is flesh out and milk After that it's on to Archimedes' claw , Andrew's video. That's also where 3d printing master Henry a life changing experience as far as all the The inverted hemisphere is a cylinder minus a showed you was very convincing but, of course, we need to conduct a proper mathematical check minus a cone, with both shapes of just the right wrong with the cylinder? Well, let's have another out. There, the orange arrow points at the highest the point around which we are figure-8-ting on what happens around those two special points. the inside-out-shape is that of a cylinder of the lowest point of the inside-out shape is right in can go wrong in term of the cylinder. But what Basically what I am worrying about here is that as in a cone, may actually be a tiny bit curved. looks are really not deceiving :) The keen among Okay, for easier tracking of distances, let's also shapes appear to be. There. Now, cut everything in is clear that the red cross-section on the left on the right will be a ring. And it's also easy the same area. Is that clear? Right? During the left continuously turns into the ring cross the ring must have same area :) Now, using this of the ring. For this hire a couple of middle do is to write down the formulas for the areas of this inner radius. They've done stuff like this in they'll report back to you that the inner radius That's a linear relationship. And that means that the missing part in the middle is really, truly a complete. As I said, just a sketch and as long that's good enough to be able to appreciate what of turning the hemisphere into the cylinder minus and brilliant, the basic idea is not new. 400 was the first to realise that the cylinder minus volume formula of the sphere. Of course, like air travel and fancy baggage carousels and so was a bit different from ours :) In particular, two shapes over there and starts by showing, from that the baggage carousel gives us for free. What and ring cross-sections of the two shapes have cut. Right, we got that equality for free. He then an ingenious idea named after him. Cavalieri at all heights, the two shapes must also have implies same volume. Makes sense :) Cavalieri by Archimedes, the original discoverer of the into the details of Archimedes' proof. But let me also a sphere/cylinder/cone combo at play but it's in more details about Archimedes' proof there is Mathsmasters article by Marty and me in which we new way of naturally turning the hemisphere into upgrade of Cavalieri's discovery, which in turn I said, we are really making mathematical history making for thousands of years. You saw it first before I move on to the next main topic, let that arises from Andrew's dance. Here we go. If we extra special happens. What's a paraboloid. Well, of our good old friend y = x squared around the paraboloid but rather part of the paraboloid below let's call this bit a paraboloid anyway. Now shape looks like. And here is the amazing bit. The cylinder minus the same paraboloid. Challenge Work out the details in the comments. Anyway, how solve for the volume of the paraboloid of course volume of the surrounding cylinder. Archimedes formula. Did I ever mention that Archimedes is my second? :) Actually, at this point I just have ingenious insights. So much great stuff to point this earlier slide. The volume of the hemisphere itself what's that? Well, pi r cubed remember the cylinder :) Let's shuffle this formula But now its also clear that the hemisphere our identity says is that the ratio of the volume hemisphere is equal to 3 to 2. And of course the ratio of the volume of the surrounding cylinder that :) Archimedes was so impressed by this this cylinder/sphere diagram over there engraved else which makes all this doubly amazing :) It the cylinder and the surface area of the sphere areas are in the ratio of 3:2. Did you know that? a closer look at the surface area of the sphere. Okay, so we've mastered the volume formula of the sphere. What about the surface area? Let me just go for it and power through a simple and beautiful argument that gets us there without breaking a that quite a few of you will already be familiar We can think of this disk as being made up of just highlighted a few of these circles. Let's cut them out. In this way the disk unfolds into a circumference of the disk of course. That's the area of the circle is equal to the area of 1/2 circumference times R. Nice argument, don't we've discovered a simple relationship between the any pi in sight. Now, of course, once we know for either one of these quantities, immediately say we know the formula for the circumference the area formula. Hands up, who's seen this you :) Okay. The nested circles that we started that I just showed you is often called the onion want to cry? :) Yes, I know, that's a bad one, of you in the know may not know ( :) is that the Replace the layered disk by a layered ball. There I promise. :) Then we can unfold all layers into unfolds into a circular cone of height r. And, area of the ball. And so the volume of the ball is times height, and so 1/3 surface area times r. As seen. Cute. And now, since we already know the the formula for the surface area. Tada again :) and area formulas of the sphere. And now you also the top and 4 at the bottom. That was not hard, happy over there and has probably pushed the like and subscribe buttons by now :) What about you? Actually, although what I just showed you was a pretty quick formula, there is an even quicker way. If you are may have noticed that the surface area formula is what? Yes, quick check. The derivative of r cubed the volume formula is the area formula. Magic :) try the same for the circle, the 2d counterpart the area formula for the circle is the formula for the formulas for the circle. And, of course, r. Magic again :) Really easy challenge for the are still in high-school: Can you provide an onion magic? If so, dazzle the rest of us by leaving a try. :) Otherwise, I'll also link to a brief Another challenge. Check that Archimedes' of the cylinder and the sphere. Okay back to our better from a purely aesthetic point of view? area formula 4 pi r squared. No fraction in sight we are now ready for the second main attraction of at a glance why the area formula is what it is. Does the pi r squared in this formula ring a bell? Of course! pi r squared is just the area formula for a circle of radius r like, for example, an equatorial circle cross-section the surface area of the sphere is exactly 4 times ago 3blue1brown set out to find a nice visual Today I'll show you the ultimate one glance way something that I think is even nicer than what result of another one of Andrew's brainstorms. better way to write the area formula if you're r squared. Since 4 is also 2 squared we can pull is that the area of the sphere is equal to the that this is true can indeed be seen at a of the sphere's surface into this larger circle. many meridians of longitude. Here are a few of that joins the north and the south poles of our of the sphere is contained in exactly one of these this one here. There is a radius of the pink now swivel the meridian 90 degree clockwise around the same with all the other infinitely many meridians highlighted over there. Okay, after we the pink circle. To really get a feel for this globe. Ready? There unfold . Each individual snugly fit together and fill the big circle when there, that's how Andrew's unfolding morphs the the radius. All clear? Now, Andrew's simple magical property. Obviously, the transformation thing it does NOT distort: area! To use the out to be area-preserving. This means that any distorted region somewhere on the large circle of Australia on the globe. Then the area of Australia its image on the circle. Amazing, isn't it? And sphere and its image on the circle. In particular, is the same as the area of the circle. Tada. everything I said is true. And you know me, right? way things work here in MathologerLand. I have to could potentially go wrong, let's do the same There this cylinder is of height H. Now fold down cylinder mantle is this ring. And, so: Are the same? What do you think? The answer is: Definitely it. Keeping the height of the cylinder fixed, we making the cylinder thinner and thinner. On the than the area of the circle whose radius is equal that's a circle of radius H. And so the two areas sphere so magical? Why does unfolding the sphere why this is the case? Well, remember Henry's beginning? Henry's gizmo is a 3d printed version ingenious inventions. Have a look. So, here we by special 3d crescent moons that are thickened fold down those 3d moons together with the without a gap and end up forming a thickened up completely smooth, magic. And then, as we increase closer to the real thing: there you have it, the disk, without any distortion. Tada, NOW the fast :) Take my word for it, we are getting closer property. However, I am fairly sure that what most approximate the sphere and the circle better and the moons facing out will get closer and closer to then somehow completes the proof. Right, seems Have a close look at the moons. Arranged in sphere moons from completely different perspectives. And moons as they move, how can we be sure that these same surface areas. Not obvious, right? Okay, actually come from and what is happening here in before and after folding down the meridians. The same number of regions. And so, to show that the to show that a blue region has the same area as a two regions, let's fold down the blue region and watch this. You just witnessed a little miracle. exactly touches the sides of the blue and the 3d moon served. Now let's get rid of the sphere itself. What you are looking at here is a circular pink and blue cross-sections are both roughly of equal length. And the same is true all along situation, where two shapes are the same, cross Remember Cavalieri? And, as usual, we can conclude area. Well, since corresponding cross-sections are the surface areas of the two regions will not be of moons to infinity, in the limit we'll have so the sphere and the large circle have the same closer, we can similarly prove that Andrew's any country on the sphere transforms to a country argument rigorous still requires quite a bit of you really nicely captures the core of the Okay and that's pretty much it. But before I sign inspiring me to make this video and for creating this is a Mathologer command: you must check linked in from the comments. Also thank you to the claw. Another command: make sure to head over plus free 3d printing files. Then you can print there will be more thank-you-s at the very in terms of Archimedes' claw I've really holds. There is definitely enough material there is the beautiful explanation and important all its moons will always touch without leaving to Heinrich Lambert's famous area-preserving Lambert? We keep running into him. He was the he was one of the inventors of the hyperbolic trig maps, and so on. Anyway, Archimedes' claw, there but let's call it a day. I'll finish with one a completely different moon powered way to turn