William: Donald Trump has selected one of the nation's most prominent critics of covid-19 lockdowns and mandates to lead the national institutes of health. He famously co-authored what is known as the great Barrington declaration, a manifesto that advocated for allowing covid to spread among most people in order to achieve herd immunity. It was widely criticized by top public health officials at the time. For more on this pick we are joined by the head of the pandemic center at the brown university pool -- school of public health. So good to have you back in the program. He is tasked with running the nations preeminent biomedical research organization. What do you make of this pick? &gt;&gt; It is very controversial. Typically the people tapped to lead this organization are people with a long history of doing clinical research or maybe they have spent a long time doing laboratory research. The is an economist -- he is an economist. He works more on policy. Of course the secondary controversy is what you reference, during covid-19 he was a very outspoken critic. He was one who really questioned a lot of issues. People worry whether his approach to this job would be driven by dogma versus evidence. Reporter: I went back and read the declaration. There is a part of it that has some grains of truth. That was the low risk that covid posed to young people and the larger risk of keeping them out of school so long. When you look at that, how do you look at the time? &gt;&gt; There are some things I agreed with him on. Calling out school closures as being particularly harmful was something I very much agree with him on. Obviously it is also true that those of advanced age were always at a greater risk. Those points, he was quite right on. What was quite challenging about the declaration was that it proposed we only sequester those at high risk and let everybody else go out and get infected. Even if you thought that was a reasonable idea, it is unpractical because you cannot sequester people at high risk. That is where the real controversy comes from. It was quite hard to figure out the right thing to do. People of all sorts, myself included, did not get everything right. William: When you are in charge of marsh erring the federal government sonorous resources in deciding what the aubusson and whatnot aubusson, what is the concern with someone like him at the helm of that organization? &gt;&gt; The concern for anyone tapped for this position, which is very important, this is the place where if you have a loved one with a rare disease or cancer, it is where you are going to look for cures. It is critically important as a driver of the economy. For every dollar that they spend, it contributes about 2.5 times that in economic activity. You want anyone who is going to leave that agency to do so driven by evidence, not dogma. You want them to fulfill the obligations of the role and not necessarily out of some perceived loyalty to the person who appointed them. That is true for everyone. It is my hope that as a physician and a researcher, he will be driven by evidence. He does have scientific training. It is my hope he will use his scientific bites to make decisions based on evidence. As the evidence drives him, not due to personal grievances or any perceived dogma or biases. William: When you look at him within the constellation of trump's other selections, obviously we have rfk junior at the very top of the pyramid, he has been a wellspring of misinformation about vaccines. The former congressman will run the CDC. He has also falsely linked vaccines and autism. When you look at these individuals who will be running the nation's health policy, what is your overall sense of how this will go? &gt;&gt; My biggest worry is really about the nomination for the secretary of the department of health and human services, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. He is really in a class all by himself. Whereas I have some disagreements with some other nominees, these are people who have training in the areas where they will potentially be overseeing. They are people who have engaged in some level of considering evidence. Rfk junior stands out as a French character. He has really made a career out of not only not paying attention to evidence but pushing consistently debunked talking points just to fulfill an agenda that is really way outside the norm. It is really quite fringe. It is really quite considered wacky in many instances. Some of his views are simply very strange. I am quite worried because the head of HHS is the boss. Even if you have good people with good training and credible scientific minds, the question always is, what will they be able to do given the fact that the person who might run the department is really one who is prone to favor conspiracy theories of actual evidence? William: As always, thank you so much. &gt;&gt; Thanks for having me.