A Toddler Chewed Lead Paint Off His Toys. This Is What Happened To His Brain. JP is a 4 year old boy, presenting to the appetite, and speech. His mother Sarah, tells the admitting nurse and had developed tremors in his hands. JP was from a well off family, living in an He loved playing with antique toys given to About a year ago, Sarah realized that JP was He seemed happy and healthy, so she didn't She replaced the toys with a different set, But as the weeks went by, Sarah noticed JPs Maybe should limit his screen time, she thought. Sometimes she'd call out his name and he Maybe she should speak louder she thought. Eventually, Sarah found her son chewing the She took those away too, but this time, things JP complained his tummy hurt. Sarah thought his walk looked funny. His speech started to slur. His hands began to tremble. His reaction time seemed to be blunted. Sarah realized then that something was terribly exam confirms this. Hyperactive behavior was found in JP along order. His movements were uncoordinated, with a marked High frequency sensorineural hearing loss Higher pitched sounds were almost inaudible Urine analysis revealed excessive proteinuria, A blood test reveals JP's blood lead level 40 times the level known to cause brain damage. Clearly, his neurologic decline is because But something's wrong. Typically, symptoms of lead poisoning are Sarah took his toys away weeks ago, but his JP's lead toxicity is chronic, meaning he this excessive buildup has started to permanently We can prove this. We estimate his total blood volume to be about measured at admission. So there's really over 2000 micrograms of But, studies indicate that less than 25% of So where is that other 75%? Well, there's some basic chemistry to be Lead is a heavy metal. On the periodic table, it's a member of with carbon, silicon and tin. As you go down the group, the atomic mass Heavier elements are less stable. Less stable means more reactive. And more reactive means lead preferentially that other 75%. But, elemental group 14 members tend to be with anything. Have you ever heard of metallic tin poisoning? Because I haven't. How about this silica gel you find in packages That's silicon dioxide, I've seen people react with anything in the body. So lets go back to the chemistry. Group 14 elements can have a positive 4 charge, Tetra meaning four. Valent from Latin Valentia meaning capacity that you see on batteries. One reason why chemical reactions happen is So making it zero, makes it stable. So to get rid of plus four, you need a minus But nothing in the body is minus four, so really react in the body. But lead is an exception. Its significance is because of how heavy it This is the number of particles at the center, Silicon is 14. Germanium is 32, so that difference is 18. Tin is 50, also a difference of 18. But lead is 82, a difference of 32. This means there's a lot more particles More particles means more mass. And more mass means stronger forces pulling So instead of plus 4, lead is mainly plus And this explains why lead is toxic in humans. As divalent lead flows throughout JP's body, cations, which are calcium, magnesium and Important components of muscle contraction, So as lead displaces these necessary cations, touches. Lead preferentially binds to sulfhydryl groups, These are everywhere in proteins, which are So as lead disturbs these sulfhydryl groups, function as intended, meaning that cells start Nerves are irreversibly damaged. Lead displaces calcium at the point of synapse their signals too. As lead continues to creep into JP's tissues, Divalent lead drives itself deeper into mitochondria, ATP production in the brain, leading to hypometabolism because of lead paint that he chewed off his If 2000 micrograms in blood is just 25%, then lead floating around in his body. Given that just 200 micrograms is known to neurologic condition is quickly deteriorating, Can we somehow remove the lead from his body? Maybe. This brings us back to divalent cations. Your body removes chemicals through a process Waste is eliminated by dissolving it in water the urine. The problem with lead is that it accumulates duct and injures the tubules. And even worse, it stays for more than 120 So, if lead mimics calcium, then we need a displace it. And on the outside, we need the molecule to in the urine. JP is given calcium disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetic The calcium is swapped by lead on the inside. The outside mixes well with water allowing He receives several doses and it's found decrease rapidly over the next few days and But it's not enough. Pediatric neurology finds JP's hearing is His neurocognitive deficits are still wide. His seizures have stopped, but he's starting If we've removed lead from his blood, what Less lead is good, right? Well, it is. But at this point, we're only preventing Removing the lead from his blood doesn't If chelation wasn't given in time, this swell with water causing cerebral edema. The expansion of the brain would crush up and ending in death, but luckily, it was caught done. At the time of diagnosis, it was thought maybe could have been the problem. But further analysis showed otherwise. JP's parents had no detectable blood lead Analysis of his toys found paint containing This means just 1 gram of paint contained JP's body, and that he likely chewed more several months. Why was lead in the paint to begin with? Well, it was commonly added in to dry it faster That paint is common in old art, and old homes. But unfortunately, today, lead is still found everyone too, including you. The European Food Safety Authority in 2010 in about 0.8 micrograms of lead per kilogram So a 70 kilogram European male takes in about Adults absorb about 1% of lead through the in the body are really lower. But where adults absorb more lead, is through Lead was added to gasoline as an anti-knockback law of the land. The 60 years with leaded gas resulted in airborne classify their soil as hazardous waste because Today, we know blood lead levels as low as less than 5% of JP's, results in permanent Children raised with lead in their blood have longer reaction times, with wider neurobehavioral In the long term, there's a markedly increased For JP, it still isn't finished. The largest stores of bodily calcium are not Because kids grow fast, calcium storage rates When blood lead levels are elevated in these that entrenches and embeds itself into the It takes several years for bone to turnover. As JP grows into an adult, that lead will a baseline level. During times of acute stress that he'll those lead stores in bone can suddenly unleash If JP was a girl, the bone lead will leech and cross into the fetus, poisoning the child, There's no good long term answer to JP's His acute exposure was addressed with chelation But that doesn't reverse the damage that paint off his toys. This particular patient was lucky he came It's not even clear if his parents told Many others aren't so fortunate, and this More recently, Consumer Reports released an fruit juice commercially available. In their analysis, half the juices tested 1 part per billion. That is 1 microgram per liter of juice. Given that children absorb about half the to drink 16000 liters or 4226 gallons of juice But since we know less than one-fortieth of to 100 gallons of juice doesn't seem implausible lead accumulates in the body over time. To be fair, heavy metal levels in US fruit The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends of age any juice. No more than 4 ounces daily (118 mL) for toddlers No more than 4-6 ounces daily (118-177 mL) And no more than 8 ounces daily (237 mL) for blood lead level at all in a child is acceptable. Prevention to any kind of exposure, while only way to avert a tragedy, like that of Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.