The X-15 designed to be purely and simply a research vehicle to provide aerodynamic flight, dynamic and structural response data for use in the development of future manned hypersonic vehicles such as the Space shuttle. No hypersonic wind tunnels past or present, can provide accurate data for the design of a full scale hypersonic airplane. The frontiers of flight today are the same as they were in the 1950s, the exploration of hypersonic flight. The X-15 will ultimately be viewed as the right flyer of hypersonic airplanes. The X-15 flew to speeds and altitudes never previously achieved by winged vehicles. On the crisp, clear morning of November 9th, 1961, a prospector working any of the many small mining claims in the bleak country around Mud Lake would have noticed the telltale broad white contrail signaling the approach of a strange formation of aircraft. If his eyesight was particularly acute, he might have discerned a giant Boeing NB-52B Stratofortress arrowing through Nevada's dark blue sky, flanked by two sleek little fighters, a North American F-100 super Saber and a Lockheed F-104 Starfighter. As he watched, he might have seen a long black dart drop from the B-52, followed by the sudden boom and crackling rumble of an igniting rocket engine. Boosted by 60,000 pounds of thrust, it left the head of the big bomber and its chase, planes accelerating upwards as it burned a ton of anhydrous ammonia and liquid oxygen. Every 12 seconds it arced into the trans atmosphere, it's white exhaust trail pointing like a finger toward the future. Not quite 90 seconds later, it was level at 102,000 feet. Streaking towards Edwards Air Force Base in Southern California. At Mach 6.04. Air Force test pilot Major Robert White had just become the first man to take an airplane to Mach 6, six times the speed of sound flying, the second of three North American Aviation X-15 research airplanes. Slightly less than 8 minutes and 200 miles later, trailed by another F-104 Chase plane, the X-15, its propellants exhausted and now the world's fastest glider. Dropped into a steep curve to a landing flare and touched down on runway 18. Marked out on the hard baked clay of Rogers Dry Lake. The world's largest natural landing site. The X-15 program was a natural outgrowth of progression of aviation since the time of the Wrights. The biplane had given way to the streamlined monoplane. And by the late 1930s, the first experimental jet engines that appeared, promising an era of high speed flight. But as an airplane flew closer to the speed of sound and encountered compressibility, the bunching up of air around it as it neared Mach 1 causing high drag, buffeting, changes in structural loads, and even loss of control and in flight breakups. For more than a decade until Chuck Yeager flew the first bell XS-1, later X-1 to Mach 1.06 in October of 1947, it seemed that the speed of sound might indeed be a barrier to the future flight. Afterward, aviation accelerated rapidly into the supersonic era. Mach 2 fell to Scott Cross sealed and the second Douglas D558-2 Skyrocket in November 1953, and Mach 3 to Captain Milburn Apt in the first Bell X-2 in September 1956. Though tragically he perished when the plane went out of control during his return to Edwards. By the time of the Apt's death the X-15 program was well underway. Its designers faced formidable challenges. Bell had built advanced variants of the X-1 that could excel at Mach 2 and 90,000 feet, and the swept wing X-2 could climb above 125,000 feet. Both hinted at control challenges the X-15 would face. In 1956 when test pilot Captain Ivan C. Kinch coasted to above 126,000 feet, his X-2 was like an artillery shell following a ballistic parabola. Near the top of its climb, as the plane decelerated after its rocket engine ran out of propellant, it's ailerons, elevators and rudder were useless due to the very low dynamic pressure encountered as it passed through the upper atmosphere. The X-2 began a slow left roll arced over the top of its ballistic parabola, and as its speed and consequently dynamic pressure increased in the lower atmosphere, its flight controls regained their effectiveness and Kincheloe was able to guide it back to a safe landing on Edwards broad lake bed. Clearly flying above 100,000 feet, future rocket planes would require reaction controls, small jet thrusters such as those employed on the first Man spacecraft. In addition to conventional aerodynamic control surfaces. Aerodynamic heating in the high altitude environment pose their own problems. Unlike supersonic flight, which is differentiated by the speed of sound in the distinctive crack of a Sonic boom. Hypersonic flight is characterized primarily by increasing aerodynamic heating with intensity, hot air flows and sharply angled shockwaves washing over the structure, their interactions producing even greater heat. The structure could not be conventional, for the plane would be subject to skin temperatures above 1000 degrees Fahrenheit, necessitating extensive thermal protection. Inside the fully pressurized cockpit, the pilot would be more astronaut than airmen. Wearing a pressure suit and helmet capable of functioning in space like conditions should cabin pressure be lost. Interest in hypersonic flight predated the supersonic revolution. The three great prophets of the space Age, Russia's Constantine Zalkowski, the Romanian German Herman Oberth, and America's Robert Goddard. All advocated hypersonic airplanes as a means of flying into space. And German rocket enthusiast Max Valia, before his death in the explosion of an experimental rocket engine recommended developing rocket powered either planes as intercontinental airliners. In the 1930s Austrian engineer Eugen Sanger and the mathematician Irene Bredt undertook the world's 1st science based hypersonic design, their so-called Silbervogel Silver Bird. Proposed as a space transport and later as a global strike aircraft, it became an extraordinarily influential design study. Right after World War II Joseph Stalin, according to a Soviet military defector, even sent a team into Western Europe on a fruitless mission to kidnap authors, hoping that Soviet sangha planes would make it easier for us to talk to the gentleman shopkeeper, Harry Truman. The combination of the Sangha Brett study in example of a Nazi A4-V2 ballistic missile greatly simulated post war American, Soviet and European interest in Rockets, missiles, and hypersonic aircraft. While the Sangha Pipe study had been purely theoretical, the A-4 program had extensively studied Mach 4 plus wing derivatives, one of which, the A- 4B, flew before war's end, though it broke up during its terminal glide to earth. The Soviet American race to develop atomic armed ballistic missiles, foster heating and reentry studies evolution of the blunt body reentry shape and high temperature materials research. It also encouraged studies of rocket boosted winged global ranging hypersonic vehicles. Even Orbital spacecraft. In America from all this spraying the X-15 and X-20 programs, though the latter never flew. The roots of the X-15 reflected a broad base of military, industrial and governmental research support. In 1951, Robert Woods, Bell Aircraft Corporation's chief engineer and a member of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, prestigious Aeronautics committee, called for Development of new research airplane with performance similar to the A-4s. His continued pressure led NACA's executive Committee to endorse a year later. Investigating flake conditions between Mach 4 and Mach 10, the agency formed a hypersonic study committee under Langley Aeronautical Laboratory, now NASA Langley Research Center engineer Clinton Brown, which subsequently advocated greatly expanded ground in flight research test using models and specialized test techniques. The committee even suggested modifying the X-2 with a strap on booster to increase performance above Mach 4, adding reaction controls for flight safety. Program delays, an eventual loss of both airplane doomed that idea. In 1953, the Air Force's Scientific Advisory Board concluded the time is ripe for a Mach 5 to 7 hypersonic vehicle. And the US Navy's Office of Naval Research issued a study contract to Douglas for a Mach 7 plus design, tentatively designated the D-558-3. Air Force and Navy interest proved crucial to getting the X-15 program off the drawing board and into the air. The next year, 1954, marked the genesis of the X-15. Another NACA a study team headed by John Becker undertook preliminary design of a Mach 6 rocket boosted hypersonic research airplane. It had a nickel ally and Connell structure rocket like for fin tail in off shelf rockets from the Hermes program. Becker's study anticipated many of the X-15 features and encouraged NACA that summer to invite the military services to join with it in developing such an aircraft. In October, they formed the NACA a Air Force Navy Research Aircraft Committee subsequently known as the X-15 Committee. A joint program directive issued on December 23rd gave technical oversight to NACA and design and construction authority to the Air Force. The Navy and Air Force would jointly fund the effort. The Air Force supervised design competition in 1955 between Bell, Douglas, North American and Republic. Bell's Robert Woods, who had launched the company's earlier X-1 effort, might reasonably have expected his firm to win. Since it had already built and flown the X-1, X-2, and X-5. Douglas's Ed Heinemann with his D-558 skystreak in skyrocket. Plus the D-55-3 study might have as well. Both companies produce relatively cheap designs, each promising to deliver 3 airplanes for a total cost of $36 million dollars. Harrison's &quot;stormy&quot; storms, a veteran of North Americans, many fighter programs. led the design team that drafted his firm's entry at an estimated $56 million dollars, the most expensive proposal. But both Bell and Douglas's designs were considered too technically risky. And Republics, which was technically insufficient and also more costly than the Bell and Douglas proposals, came in last. Accordingly, despite the huge cost disparity, the Air Force notified North American on September 30th that it had won the competition. On June 11th, 1956, after final negotiations, North American received a $42.9 million dollar contract, about $349 million dollars today for the three X-15s. Three months later, Reaction Motors Incorporated was awarded with a $10.7 million dollar contract for their engines. The X-15 program involved far more than simply designing a new airplane, however novel it might be. Its rocket engine pilot protection system, environmental controls and flight control system, as well as its flight test range posed complex challenges. The X- 15's XLR99 engine, more than three times as powerful as the X-2s and eight times as powerful as the X-1s, proved particularly risky. Developed by New Jersey based Reaction Motors, the XLR99 was based on the earlier XLR 30 used in the Navy's Viking High Altitude rocket program. Any hopes that the Viking experience would help with its design proved illusory. Unlike the XLR-30, which burn diluted alcohol and liquid oxygen, the 57,000 pound thrust XLR99 burn 1,445 gallons of more explosive anhydrous ammonia and 1,000 gallons of LOX. More significant, however. Thiokol had to &quot;man- rate&quot; the engine i.e make it safe enough for operation in a piloted airplane capable of repeated use and both throttleable and restartable in flight. This was not easy to achieve. Particularly as its high speed turbo pump, a potential source of disaster, fed the engine propellants at a rate of 167 pounds per second. Eventually, the XLR-99 became a reliable power plant with a rated operational life of about one hour, (about 40 flights) before requiring overhaul. Such reliability came at a price for a far longer than anticipated development, compelling with American to complete the first two X-15s with older XLR-11 engines for their proving flights, the X-15 required a complex flight control system. A conventional fighter like stick controlled in all moving tail that furnished pitch and roll control but was used only during approach and landing. During high G acceleration, climb and reentry the pilot relied on the side stick controller. A reaction control system operating small hydrogen peroxide jet thrusters located in the nose and wings furnished pitch, roll, and yaw inputs at high altitudes where conventional controls were ineffective. Eventually the third X-15s flew with an adaptive flight control system that automatically compensated for changing dynamic pressure, blending the reactor control system with the conventional aerodynamic controls. Since the X-15 was technically a boost-glider once it exhausted its propellants, the pilot had to carefully manage his energy to ensure he could reach Rogers Dry Lake. To help him in doing this the X-15 would always be flown so that it had to excess energy at burnout which the pilot could use his bleed off using large pedal like speed brakes installed in the side of a massive dorsal in ventral fins unlike earlier rocket powered aircraft that flew near Edwards AFB. The X-15 demanded a special flight test corridor, dubbed the &quot;High Range&quot;, running roughly 480 miles from Wendover, UT southwest to Edwards. Crossing multiple mountain ranges in the stark Southwestern Desert. The High Range was itself a notable technical accomplishment, foreshadowing the manned Spacecraft tracking network NASA established for Project Mercury several years later. NASA Furnished two tracking stations at Ely and Beatty, Nevada, as well as at Edwards. Furthermore, unlike research airplanes, the X-15 required a complex flight simulator to train pilots and undertake mission planning and rehearsal. The simulator was updated using data required during X-15 flights, with pilots typically spending 40 to 50 hours in it before undertaking the 10 to a 12 minute flight. When the program commenced, it was hoped the X-15 might be flying by the end of 1957. Due to the complexity of its design and technical challenges involved, however, test flights did not begin until 1959. In the interim, NASA and the Air Force supported the X-15 development effort with extensive wind tunnel and free-flight. Ballistic tunnel testing, evaluated reaction controls on ground simulator rigs and unmodified research airplanes, including the bell X-1B and F-104. and undertook extensive simulation studies to prepare for the crucial challenges faced by a hypersonic rocket plane, having for its first time the lowest lift to drag ratio ever flown on a piloted aircraft. In October 1957, Sputnik had seized the public imagination and the national debate over American science and technology that followed NACA and given way to the space focused NASA. Now the X-15 took on greater urgency and visibility as a symbol of America's progression into space. Vice President Richard Nixon presided over its rollout at North American's Los Angeles facility on October 15th, 1958, a year after the Soviet satellite ushered in the new Space Age. It was a remarkable looking aircraft burnished metallic black with thin wings and horizontal tail surfaces and because of the directional stability requirements of high supersonic and hypersonic flight, large meat cleaver dorsal and ventral vertical fins, the lower half of the ventral surface jettisonable during landing approach so that the X-15 landing skids could be a reasonable size. Although planners had originally thought the X-15 would use a modified Convair B-36 as a mothership. In the retirement of the B-36, and the availability of the more powerful and capable B52A led to its substitution for Convair's giant intercontinental bomber. Early tests with the X-15 proved far from encouraging, piloted by North American test pilot Scott Crossfield, who had been so dedicated to the project that as it began, he left NACA for North American. The first X-15, AF56-6670 made its maiden captive flight on March 10th, 1959 followed by its first glide flight on June 8th. During the landing approach, Crossfield encountered serious longitudinal control problems that pushed his piloting skills to the limit, necessitating adjustments to the boosted flight control system. The 2nd X-15 AF56-6671 made the types first powered flight on September 17th. Propelled by two XLR-11 engines, it reached Mach 2.11 at 52,341 feet. He completed another powered flight into Mach 2.15 a month later. But then on November 5th, disaster struck when an engine fire forced an emergency landing on Rosamond Dry Lake, during which 6671 broke its back. While the 2nd X-15 returned to North American for repairs and installation of its XLR-99, proving flights continued through 1960, with 6670 still equipped with its interim XLR-11s. The 3rd X-15 AF56-6672 was the first completed with the Big Thiokol XLR-99, but during an Edwards ground test the engine blew up. catapulting the rest of the airplane forward. Safe in its cockpit, Crossfield marveled at the X-15 strength and worried for the safety of crews trying to extricate him. The plane, like the second X-15, returned to North American for a rebuild. Not until November 15th, 1963 years late with the X-15 fly with its XLR 99 engine, when Crossfield took 6671 to Mach 2.97 marking the end of its contractor flight test program. But now the X-15 hits its stride. On March 7th, 1961, Air Force Major Robert M White became the first pilot to exceed Mach 4. He piloted the 2nd X-15 across the hypersonic divide on June 23rd, attaining Mach 5.72. White completed a Sonic trifecta by exceeding Mach 6 on November 9th, as previously mentioned. Nor was the boyish airman the X-15s only record setter. On August 22nd,1963, NASA research pilot Joseph Walker attained 354,200 feet in the third X-15, taking it into space. Marring this was a serious landing accident on November 9th, 1962 that virtually destroyed the second X-15 and seriously injured NASA pilots Jack McKay. When an engine failure necessitated a heavyweight emergency landing on Mud Lake 6671 skid Landing gear collapsed. Even this setback was turned to advantage for NASA, lengthened the X-15, and added provisions for two huge drop takes and a dummy supersonic combustion ramjet engine installation on the short and lower vertical fin. Eventually, on October 3rd, 1967, Major William J &quot;Pete&quot; Knight. Reached Mach 6.7 flying this aircraft designated the X-15 A2. During the flight, unanticipated heating led to multiple structural failures, causing the scramjet module to separate from the aircraft. in damaging the fuel jettison system. Knight, a superlative airman, landed safely, sadly shortly after Knight's remarkable flight, the fastest by a piloted airplane, the 20th Century Air Force test pilot Major Michael Adams was killed in the third X-15. On November 15, 1967 during a high altitude flight, it entered a Mach 5 plus spin and it broke well above Mach 4 during an inverted dive into the lower atmosphere. The accident stemmed from a fatal combustion of instrumentation and control systems failures plus human factors. Less than a year later on October 24th, 1968 the X-15 completed its last flight, it's 199th, flown by NASA pilot William Dana. NASA attempted a 200th flight on December 20th, but Edward wasn't typically swathed in snow. Planners took it as an omen and simply retired the craft. The first X-15 went to the National Air and Space Museum, where it may be seen in the milestones of Flight gallery and the second the fastest airplane of the 20th century. To the National Museum of the US Air Force. Altogether, 12 distinguished pilots, Scott Crossfield, Robert White, Forrest Peterston, Neil Armstrong, Joe Walker, Jack McKay, Milt Thompson, Robert Rushworth, Mike Adams, Bill Dana, Pete Knight and Joe Engel had flown the X-15 to speeds and altitudes never previously achieved by winged vehicles. It's research program consisted of an aerodynamic and structural heating investigation phase from 1959 through1963, and a follow on program utilizing the X-15 to carry experiments into the upper atmosphere or to hypersonic speeds. Much of the applications program benefited from the contemporaneous Apollo effort, but it also helped sensor and missile detection efforts. X-15 flights produced more than 700 technical reports establishing a database still considered essential today. As Hypersonics advances into the 2nd century of flight, the X-15 was by no means a perfect research vehicle. Under some circumstances, it had dangerous flight characteristics and heavy impact loads sorely texted its landing skids during reentry in flight. Resonance effects could interact with its flight control system early on. Researchers discovered gaps and panels that permitted the entry of hot hypersonic air into its structure, necessitating fixes. Cockpit outer window panels shattered from heat, distorted panel frame structural loads forcing redesign, and its nose landing gear twice extended in flight due to thermal stress. There were several landing incidents and accidents, one major ground explosion, and of course the sad loss of the third X-15 with Mike Adams. But overall, as a product of the Precomputer design era, and without the benefit of modern tools such as computational fluid dynamics in computer aided design and manufacturing, the X-15 constituted a remarkable achievement and an astonishing productive research program bridging the age of flight in the age of space. Fittingly, two of its most distinguished pilots went on to greater fame. In the US space program, Neil Armstrong became the first man to walk on the moon. And Joe Engle became one of Nelson's first space shuttle mission commanders. Today, Air Force and NASA researchers pursue Mach 6 hypersonic flight with the airbreathing Boeing- Pratt &amp; Whitney- Rocketdyne X-51A Waverider scramjet research vehicle. Tellingly, its designation X-51 was deliberately chosen and reserved to echo the X-15 and remind researchers of the remarkable aircraft that a half a century ago, did so much to make hypersonic flight a reality. This is our home in space, an island universe circled by the Milky Way and within this glittering corral, Are more than 100,000 million stars. Yet this Galaxy is only one of a limitless number. Each of the countless stars within our Galaxy is a body like our sun. The sun that shines on us is far from the largest, yet it dwarfs the earth on which we live. In spite of this seeming insignificance, the planet Earth has nurtured generations of men. With imaginations that reach above and beyond the confines of this small spinning globe, to fly like a bird was long the desire of Earthbound man. Many years before the Wright brothers made history at Kitty Hawk, men had searched for means to escape the heavy hold of gravity. Their successes were varied and limited, but they took the first steps on the stairway to the stars. But every flight, every new development in aeronautics added to the cumulative knowledge necessary to lead man to the threshold of space. It is now but a matter of measurable time before a new world opens to the adventurous explorers of outer space. All muck luck hatches secured, commander. Thank you, Lieutenant. Zoom. Zoom checked bilateral counting pods. Aye Aye commander. This is commander of the Spaceship Star skipper requesting blastoff clearance at O 100 and standing by. Prepare for blastoff Lieutenant. Aye, commander. Hypersensitivitator intensity normal, normal. Variation frenetic creeps at 2.06. 2.06 check commander. Atomic rela seen fuel supply normal. Fuel supply normal, commander. Stand by for countdown. Aye Aye commander. Blast off time minus 10,9,8. We've all seen Space Flight depicted and seen similar to this. Well, it's colorful but not quite scientifically accurate. I'm reporter Ed Fleming. I'm going to call on the help of our narrator, Michael Rye, and some outstanding space experts. We'd like to show you something of what is actually being done, and plans that are projected for future explorations of the moon and our neighboring planets. Every test, every rocket flight brings us closer to the conquest of space. Now, it's one thing to launch a rocket into the sky, but it's something else again to envision a satellite in orbit or a space vehicle that might reach another planet, especially a man vehicle. Right now, I'd like to get some opinions from a man who's one of the brightest names in the aviation history of our country, General James H Doolittle, member of the National Aeronautics and Space Council and chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board to the Chief of Staff, United States Air Force. General I know a lot of people are asking why go to space at all. I believe the conquest of space may unlock the door to physical discoveries of the greatest value to the human race. Our leadership in the world depends on being in the forefront of these exciting discoveries. Another common question these days is how soon will we have a man in space? That depends on many factors. We must make rapid progress, but we're not going to take chances with human lives. After more is known about the problems now being worked on, we'll orbit the Earth with a man satellite that can return safely to home base. And someday man will finally escape from the Earth's gravitational field and will then truly be in space. Do you feel the advantages of space control are primarily military or civilian? I believe that there are bound to be major benefits in both fields. Right now, it seems that most military missions, even in the space age, can still be carried out most effectively by using the manned aircraft and the missiles that are currently in use and under development. However, this may not always be true and we have to consider every possibility now and in the future. Isn't that going to be expensive, both in money and in scientific effort? Yes. But we must realize the conquest of space will probably be of greater importance than we can begin to realize at the present time. And if we do not expend the thought, the effort, the money required, then another more progressive nation will. It is quite possible that an aggressor nation that dominates space will then dominate the world. We just can't let that happen. Thank you General Doolittle. In approaching the problems of the conquest of space, energy is a prime consideration. Controlled energy exceeding anything man has ever known. Already the power plants in our modern missiles are producing horsepower measured in the 1,000,000 in the Thunder filled canyons of California. We are working night and day to concentrate that power. Other considerations are trouble free guidance controls, protection against tremendous heat and pressure, and the unknown hazards of the hostile environment of space. The reliability of both man and machinery for the slightest failure in space may be famous. Of these, man is the greatest question. Machines can be designed and redesigned, but we have to take man as he is Earthbound. Man has evolved and developed in a protected environment. We are wrapped in a sheltering cover of atmosphere that filters out the ultraviolet rays of the sun and Shields us against plunging meteorites. The higher man goes, the farther away he moves from his natural protective environment. As he climbs upward, he reaches a point where he needs an additional oxygen supply to keep breathing farther up. His blood would boil if he were not protected in some manner, and continuing to the lower edge of the stratosphere, he would encounter temperatures of 67 degrees below 0. We are investigating these conditions through such tests. As the balloon flights of Air Force Colonel David G Simons carried for 32 hours in an insulated capsule the size of a telephone booth, Colonel Simons rose to an altitude of 102,000 feet. At that distance, only about 1% of the Earth's atmosphere separated him from outer space, and in September 1956. Captain Ivan Kincheloe rode the lightning of the X-2 up to 126,000 feet. However, these flights carried us only to the fringes of space. But little by little we are opening the gates that lead to man's widest horizon. Well, everything seems to point to the fact that with proper planning and preparation, man can live in space. But there's still a great deal of research to be done before this becomes a reality. Major General Dan Ogle, the Surgeon General of the Air Force, has many of his doctors and other medical scientists working in this field. General Ogle, what is the basic function of space medicine? I would say that it is discover how much man can adjust to the conditions of space and to help create an environment in which he can stay alive and work efficiently. And how is that done? By trying to simulate space conditions in our aero medical laboratories and then testing man under these conditions. For example, we know now that his space cabinet must be a miniature earth with a livable atmospheric pressure plus installation from deadly radiation, the intense heat of the sun, and the incredible cold of space itself. What's going to be the toughest problem for space pilots? Even after 10 years of Air Force Base medicine research. There are probably some conditions out there we don't even know about yet, but we do know that one of our major considerations will be weightlessness. What causes weightlessness? It comes about when the space vehicles velocity and flight path neutralizes the pull of Earth gravity upon the ship and everything in it, including the man that happens in outer space or an orbital flight. In space, of course, the condition can go on as long as the vehicle is out there, days, weeks or even years. You mentioned that weightlessness could be created in a certain flight pattern. Isn't that what's known as a ballistic trajectory? Yes. Let me demonstrate to the plane would fly a power dive first to gain speed, go into a curve. Climbing like that, and it is at this point that the speed and curving of the plane exactly neutralizes the pull of gravity, and the pilot experiences a feeling of weightlessness. These are just a few of the problems we're working on, and from what we've already learned, we feel confident that man can adjust himself to conditions in space. Well, general, local, I'm sure we're all looking forward to that day when we can put a man in space and bring him safely back again. Thank you, general. However, before we can safely put a manned satellite into permanent orbit, there will be many experiments with unmanned craft carrying instruments. For one reason. Such experiments are simpler and less expensive to project into space. The unmanned satellites will carry precise recording equipment to register the varying conditions they meet at different altitudes. These vehicles will probably be fairly simple to start with. As they grow in size, they will become more complex and more completely instrumented with the aid of numerous scientific instruments. The unmanned satellites will give us vital information on radiation, meteorites, cosmic rays and other aspects of the hostile environment, which must be known more fully before man ventures into the dark frontiers of space. A satellite might serve as an eye in the sky for the purposes of military reconnaissance in its flight around the Earth. It would keep a continuous watch on the land below for any indications of military buildup by potential aggressors and by means of television would relay its findings to a headquarter control station. And in this manner it could also serve as civilian defense against freakish and destructive changes in weather conditions. A further step would be to launch a satellite to an orbit 22,000 miles above the equator. At this altitude it would travel at the same speed as the rotation of the earth so that it would remain in a fixed position. This would be ideal for a wide range radio and television transmitter. Three stationary satellites might then become an international communications network. That would be of tremendous value in war or peace. But before we head for the moon, let's go through some of the steps that will get us there. The X-15 is a joint program of the Air Force Navy and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It's designed for flight and altitudes never before achieved by a manned aircraft. The X-15 takes its shape from experience gained in the development of supersonic planes and missiles. But it has to be better than a missile, for it carries a human pilot, and it will have to make many flights. Suspended beneath the wing of a bomber, the X-15 is airborne for launching. Arcing up in a ballistic trajectory, it passes swiftly beyond the limits of previous manned flights. Like an arrow leaving the bow, it is in free flight after its propellant burns out for a period of possibly four minutes along the upper curve of its arc, the pilot is in a condition of weightlessness. This offers an opportunity to study the effects of weightlessness on minds and bodies of pilots at the top of the X-15 arc. Conventional control services are almost useless because of the small amount of air pressure on them. So ingenious reaction controls have been built into the nose and wing tips to keep the ship in proper attitudes. These jets guide the plane by pushing it in opposite reaction to their force. As the plane descends in its curving flight, it plunges back into the heavier atmosphere where it's normal controls are again practical. But this heavier atmosphere develops the fierce temperatures of the thermal thicket. The heat barrier created out of speed and friction. Gradually the pilot maneuvers out of the ballistic trajectory and circles down for a dead stick landing. As a means of getting a man into orbit. A super X-15 has been proposed. the Super X-15 would be ground launched. Using a powerful liquid propellant rocket booster to supply the needed thrust, the booster provides the tremendous power necessary to release the grip of gravity on the plane. As the booster burns out, it drops away and the engine of the craft takes over to supply the added thrust to place it into orbit at the speed he'll be traveling. Our man in space will cover the distance from Cape Canaveral to the South Pole in approximately 45 minutes. When the time comes for a landing at Edwards Air Force Base, the pilot will fire retro rockets to drop out of his orbiting course. Then he begins his glide to Earth. This will be accomplished in a series of dips in and out of the heavier atmosphere this will be necessary. For a gradual slowing down, and to prevent the plane from burning like a meteor, the plane will actually glow like metal in a blacksmith's forge as it plunges into the blanket of heavier air. The successful orbital flight of the Super X-15 will be an important step toward the conquest of the moon and the nearer planets. Now let's return to Earth for a moment, and to our reporter. To check on our progress in developing adequate power to accomplish this, moving into and through space. Hello again. I'd like you to meet Mr. George Sutton, President of the American Rocket Society and Hunsaker Professor of Aeronautical engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Sutton, how soon will we go to the moon? Well, now that is something no one really knows. But I suspect might take 10 to 15 years. But first we must develop manned satellites and that is going to require a great deal of propulsive power. Here you can see some of the largest test stands in the country on these stands. We have tested the engines for Atlas, Thor, Jupiter, Redstone, Navajo and other missiles. There is the signal for a test. Now shall we watch it? 15,20,25,26,27,28,29,30. Wow, that's a lot of power. So how about the rocket that was used to launch the Army Explorer Satellite?That one was developed and tested right here. Of course, our first satellite weighed only over 20 pounds, but right now we are working on engines that can deliver a thrust of 6 million pounds, and with these engines we'll be able to put payloads of over 55 tons into orbit. Every step of the way must be thoroughly investigated before we take the giant step of sending men to the moon. Our first approaches to the moon are made with unmanned vehicles and chemical rockets, and lunar probes will be going on all the time. We're working on our man in space. Program. Thank you, Mr. Sun. Now, if you're all ready to head to the moon, just stand by. Before man sets foot on our closest neighbor in space, there will be many lunar probes to test the character of the moon. Our first step is to fire a probe ahead of the moon. Caught by the moon's gravity, it makes a reverse orbit and comes looping back. In this probe vehicle, there's a television camera to give us our first view of the far side of the moon. Next, we may impact the moon with flares for the purpose of determining surface conditions. Then we'll orbit our neighbor in space with a ship carrying instruments to map the moon and give us other scientific information. Finally, we'll prepare the way by making a soft landing on the moon with an unmanned vehicle. The instruments it carries will radio back the temperature. And various other conditions it will encounter. Of course, the natural climax to all these probing flights is to land a man on the moon, and that means projecting a human being on a trip of over 200,000 miles across the sea of space as a stepping stone to the moon and beyond. Manned satellites will be used. Assembled in space, the various parts of the satellite will be delivered into orbit by space freighters. Workers taken to the location by a shuttle plane will complete the job. Due to the weightless condition that exists, men will easily be able to handle equipment which they couldn't even move on the ground. The operating crew will be boosted to the orbiting satellite and, with the aid of a precise automatic navigation system, will be put into the right place with the right speed at the right time. Then the passenger carrier will overtake the satellite and transfer the crew. Periodically. The operating crew will be relieved and fresh crews transferred into the satellite with the transfer completed. The shuttle craft and its pilot glide back to Earth. The satellite itself will be in perpetual motion and will stay in its orbit forever unless it is deliberately brought down as it moves through space. The satellite might be used as a training station for personnel and to extend or increase military reconnaissance. And with men capable of making more selective observations than were previously possible, additional weather and map making information could be collected and evaluated. Scientifically, it will serve as a telescope viewing platform free from the heavy curtain of atmosphere that obscures the planets and stars from astronomers on Earth. Finally, a manned spaceship assembled at the satellite will leave for the moon. Arriving at the moon, the manned spaceship may go into orbit. Or may approach the planet directly. If the direct approach is made, retro rockets will slow it down as it closes in on the target. There will be many trips to the moon, probably serving as practice for other missions farther on and for observation of our Galaxy. The moon will be only the beginning of a tremendous new age of exploration. Beyond the moon and out to the fringe of infinity shine celestial beach heads beyond counting. And all the while we're reaching for the moon. Other unmanned probes will be scouting the interplanetary skies. These snoopers, possibly using Ion Motors powered with vaporized metallic fuel, will ultimately head for Mars. Their ion motors supply only a small thrust, but in the airlessness of space A little push can send the snooper rocketing along at thousands of miles an hour as it is drawn into orbit by the gravity of Mars. The snoopers, television cameras and other instruments will send back reports on this planet about which man has so many questions. Are there ruins of long dead cities on Mars? What are the lines we call canals? Today nobody knows. But one day the answer will be known around the world. This may be a home scene sometime in the 1980s, perhaps even sooner. From a manned spaceship heading for Mars will come one of the most exciting on the spot telecasts in history. This is Commander Wilson reporting to Earth from Operation Mars. This is the 260th day of our voyage. We will soon begin orbiting as soon as we come within the pull of the gravity of Mars. All members. While planetary exploration will become a reality, it's not as easy as some people would have us believe. We're dealing with tremendous distances. Earth is 93 million miles from the sun. Mars is nearly 49 million miles beyond us. Saturn is 480 million miles from the Sun, and the planet stretch out clear to Pluto, nearly 3700 million miles away. The nearest star in our Galaxy is Alpha Centauri, which is 3000 times as far away as Pluto, and our Galaxy is only one of the many island universes that extend beyond our conception. Besides the problems of distances, we still have much to learn about cosmic rays. Radiation, meteorites, and the effects of weightlessness. There's more to be known of the different kinds of power, but we're learning more every day, with every test and with every missile probing the wilderness of space. There's only one question for which we have the final and absolute answer, will man conquer space? And the answer is yes. And why does man reach out to learn the secrets of space? Did Columbus know, or Leaf the lucky or Magellan, Cortez, Sir Francis Drake. Could any of them put into words the call of unknown seas? The strange fascination of distant horizons West of these, out to seas colder than the Hebrides I must go. Where the fleet of stars is anchored, and the young star captain's glow above and beyond us arcs the sea of space. And the enchantment of the far unknown stirs the spirit of the explorer. Restless, curious Man will conquer space because he wants to know what lies over the hill, what lies beyond the barriers of Earth. His very existence is a challenge, and the end of that challenge is the farthest sweep of the imaginative mind of man. Here at Edwards Air Force Base, September 17th, 1959 as a historic date. Early on this Thursday morning, the B-52 carrier takes the X-15 out for its maiden powered flight. Hydraulic temperature Scott? Minus two and holding since we passed the tower. Test pilot Scott Crossfield is buckled in and ready for a ride to 40,000 feet, where he'll be cut loose for the first demonstration of this plane's abilities and performance. Flying Chase will be Al White North Americans alternate Joe Walker, NASA's chief test pilot and the Air Force Project pilot Major Bob White, all vital observers today. They'll be at the controls of the X-15 in the near future. Ground crews climb in a variety of vehicles and stream out to wait for landing at the edge of the lake bed. Many eyes are on the dark shaped plane this morning. But among the most important observers are the engineers at NASA. Using the ears of radio and the eyes of radar, they'll keep a close watch on the flight. FM signals transmitted will indicate the condition of each vital operating system. Each movement will be carefully plotted. Carefully watched. 003 Edwards cleared for takeoff, winds 220 degrees at 12 knots. Prime responsibility for getting the X-15 to drop altitude rests on the aircraft commander, Captain Charles Bach and the copilot, Captain Ellaby. Air Tower 003 rolling now. As the bomber climbs out, the litany of checkout groans on item after item. Gauge, switch and control are checked and rechecked in the dim interior of the 52 Bill Berkowitz launch monitor has a close up television view of system operation. The group has been this route before. Two tries, two misses. The first try never left the ground. The second came agonizingly close, just three minutes from a drop when a frozen valve cancelled the effort. Delays are difficult to accept, but each time the system at fault was improved and a problem eliminated it is. Coming on now. Radio tower talk (inaudible) real flow to pick up hydraulic pressure. Like, how about it? It's a little Small, but it's up to speed now it. dropped off in about five seconds and it didn't go over 3600. No flat 510 on the tank. 3 minutes to drive. Blind to jettison A-1 jettisoning. It was jettisoning. OK, good. Check. Prime's coming on now. Six. Call prime. What's happening? I can't see it. Yeah, I got you. Got a blossom? on the bottom one. Yeah, they're both looking good. 30 seconds give me a ready to land sign. And the launch light on. How about if I think we're OK? All right all. Right by me, let's. Go. OK, Scott, let's give it a try. OK Scottie you ready? I'm ready when you are buddy.. OK, here we go. I want to Countdown 3,2,1 release. Got eight of them going. Heading up Bill at 33,000 feet. Roger, let's get across the board and I'm on number one and five at 235, roger. Excellent sketch. Thanks. Right on. You look really good. OK, fine. Went up on 50. level, right. The course for this flight is a giant rectangle around the lake, climbing to the north, then making a left turn to a westerly heading and leveling off at 52,000 feet. Take. A little speed, but ease off. Right, left, plan back. I'm beginning to come around the final part of the plan. I dropped the bracket Mach number. The record showed Mach 2.1 over twice the speed of sound, 1,385 miles an Hour on the first try man and plane went one third the way to the goal of six times the speed of sound as the X-15 slows to subsonic speeds. The chase planes catch up and the glide portion of the flight begins. Now on a southerly heading cross field begins his long glide to landing from 46,000 feet. Time in the air is precious and the checkout continues all the way down. Steady Side foot. very powerful. Got central. OK, buddy. Just a second, 2000? I want to drop it on the track. Here it comes. Central now. You ready? No parachute, no fouled up. did the ear fouled up. No, the parachute. Well, it's open. It's letting it down. How nice. 245. 240. radio tower talk (inaudible) Maiden Flight a success today flight research took another significant step forward here at Rogers Dry Lake. This lake bed has witnessed many significant events in the history of aviation. Born this day was a new tool for flight research, using a new machine to probe into the unknown calls for caution and weeks later the second flight showed. But the performance could be repeated and excelled. Digesting the knowledge from these first tries, the program became more ambitious, and another step up the ladder was planned, one that would extend the operating area. Countdown for powered flight begins at midnight. The previous week has seen many test hurdles. Each one met and overcome, each one establishing with greater authority the right of the X-15 to be in this fueling area. All the control points have been passed this far, and now the touchy, toxic, volatile propellants are added one by one as tanks are gradually filled. Crew members take long last looks into the vitals, then close the doors. Don finds the service carts being pulled away with the two aircraft again. Standing ready. Even the most carefully controlled experiment has its element of risk, and the sober faces of every member of the team reflect their concern. Each research flight has fresh new goals. Each one is a cautious step forward into unexplored areas. The intention of this flight is to make a straight climb to 80,000 feet. Getting Mach 2 of the peak, the now routine checks of plane and engine pass on eventually, and just past nine in the morning, the third voyage of the X-15 begins. In a split second, the plan of exploration is abruptly changed to one of survival as the pilot peels out the plane for damage and heads for Rosamond, an emergency landing area. Never has the pilot been more vital. Now it's his responsibility to get the plane on the ground. Safely if he can. Hello. Trouble came in pairs on this day. The engine failure was complicated by a structural brake, and both were at this time unexplained. The plane was on the ground, the pilot's safe, but there were new problems. Investigators found that the rocket engine had suffered an ignition failure, leaving a chamber loaded with explosives. When this mixture finally ignited, the Chamber ruptured. This explosion triggered another series of events, leading to additional damage. Under normal conditions, the tanks are almost emptied, but jettison in a nose down. Emergency glide leaves more propellants, more weight in the fuselage. Because of this increased weight, the nose of the plane had to be higher than usual during landing. Although the touchdown was smooth, the nose up angle was beyond the design limits and the break occurred when the nose wheels slammed to the ground. A day and a half after the accident saw the airframe in its original jigs at the factory. The damage that seemed crippling was quickly repaired. The broken halves rejoined. This old project is one set to gain knowledge, and even from failures, lessons are learned. The fuselage was strengthened and landing gear was redesigned to absorb more shock. The rocket engines were modified to increase reliability. Five weeks after the unsuccessful try, the plane now hold and improved, began its track back to Edwards Air Force Base. Weeks have slipped by since the accident of the time has been traded for knowledge. More is known now. Certain hazards have been ruled out. The machine is better, more able. This is the number one plane of the series, modified, improved and set to show its capabilities. It hangs Frosted, smoky, ready. Back here and they look all good. Pouring on the rocket power, the X-15 streaks to a new high of Mach 2.5 sixteen 160 miles an hour at 67,000 feet, January saw the number one airplane make its final qualifying flight delivery to the Air Force and NASA. Started a new. Crew on acceptance check and preflight readying Joe Walker, chief research pilot of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, was the first to show that the X-15 is. Not a one man airplane at this time. Two X-15s were flight ready. Number one was involved in the Air Force NASA program to take the airplane with its present engines and push it to the limit of its abilities, and Joe Walker's first flight denotes the start of this research phase. The number two plane was still being flown by North American for investigation of stability control flying qualities. OK, that's nice. They're trying a little to the right now. I would say that's OK. OK, we got all eight going out, got everything looks good. OK on the second one, how far out I get now? OK, the drop with standard the flight routine, the landing uneventful. Two weeks later, another new face appeared. Major Bob White climbed the ladder to the cockpit to try his hand and rock a plane flying. An hour and a half later, the X- 15 Pilots Club had another new member. The Air Force's project pilot had made his initial run and now was ready to start some serious research flying. The spring of the year saw a flurry of activity with two X-15s flying. And North American racking up nine drops with the number 2 airplane. The Air Force and NASA alternated pilots on a separate series of nine research expeditions flights that kept inching up on the world speed and altitude records. Both company and governmental pilots kept investigating the flight abilities of the planes in different quarters, feeling up the new machines steadily pushing the operating area out farther. Gaining confidence. All flying during this. Was done with the XLR-11, the small engine package. Its thrust of 16,000 pounds was adequate for early investigations, but everyone was waiting for the big engine, the X LR-99A brute that would blast out nearly 60,000 pounds of thrust to drive the plane to peak speeds and altitudes. This engine is installed in the third and last plane of the series, which has always been slated to be the test bed for this new power plant, and Crossfield uses his time in between flights to ring out the installation preliminaries are out of the way, and this run will be one of the final before flight. This long-awaited engine can be throttled, having an idle output of 30,000 pounds, but able to be regulated between idle and 60,000 pounds of trust. Today's runs are the climax of a long series of tests proving the installation after this start. They're ready for flight. Malfunction. Throttle off. Reset. In a split second, years of planning, months of tests and grinding work went up in smoke. There was only one real Observer one eyewitness, the pilot Scott Crossfield. Scott, what was your immediate reaction? Well, it was the biggest bang that I'd ever. heard. Fortunately for me, in the airplane, the explosion blew the forward section, the tanks and the cockpit out of the blaze or out of the major part of the blaze, and the firemen were right on their toes and they moved in to blanket the tanks in the fire area with foam. The first reaction we had was that the engine had blown up, but like many first impressions, this was wrong. As soon as the parts cooled down, a disenchanted group of engineers moved in. And as you might imagine, things were pretty well scattered about. We also took a close look at the film that you've just seen, and here are a couple of frames that gave us our first clue. Just before the blow up, the cloud of vapor appeared ahead of the engine, so the search was concentrated on this area. Following up this lead, we found that the hydrogen peroxide tank had been rammed. Smashed open, but with what? Lining up with the tank is the center structure of the ammonia tank, and its shape matched the impacted area of the hydrogen peroxide sphere. But how could this part fail, likely through over pressure. Now a check of the instrumentation showed tank pressures far over normal. Again, the question why the pressure regulator was recovered and checked, it was determined. At freezing caused by the very low temperature, pressurizing gas had caused the regulator to stick full open. But there's a safety a valve to relieve over pressure. This valve in the entire relief system was also checked. Here. It was determined that a flow sensitive relief valve combined with a vapor disposal equipment had created enough back pressure to fail the tank. So a frozen regulator, a fully relief valve and a high back pressure relief system had gotten together and we had wrecked an airplane. The entire pressurizing and release systems were analyzed, redesigned, tested, and retested. We ran the combination time after time, deliberately creating the most severe failures possible. Weeks passed before we and everyone else were convinced that the problem was licked. As a measure of how the confidence was restored, here is what happened on the 4th of August. On this historic date, Joe Walker let out a Yip of joy. He had just pushed the modified small engine airplane to a new speed record, then made his report to the public. How does it feel to be the fastest living human? I don't know if I feel much different than I did yesterday, except that the waiting for the flight is over finally. (radio tower talk) 60 at 165 At what point did you reach your maximum speed? If you noticed the vapor trail from the engine at the instant it cut off, that was the point at which I reached the maximum speed. And what was your altitude then? Around 66,000. How long were you going that 21150 miles. Just one instant. Then on the 12th of August, just eight days later, Major Bob White was up before the cameras after his 136,500 foot record-breaking altitude flight. The flight today offered, I would say, no problems and nothing that could be considered a limitation as far as man's ability to fly an aircraft. (radio chat) On the track, your angle looks good, Bob. You're going up. Once I pitched up and reached the highest climb angle, I was very definitely impressed that I was going well almost straight up. Of course it wasn't straight up, but it appears to be that way from the cockpit. That's coming up on 10 now. OK, angles, very good, gone through 11 now. Burn out out now at coming 12 now .at 12/6 and 13 very sensitive. That's still good. Fantastic up here. What you see at this altitude impressed me as being the most dramatic point of flying at the over 130,000 feet. The very dark blue sky and the lighter band that was immediately surrounding the earth and then of course the many, many miles off in the distance that you're able to see. Looking to the future, I would say that we hope very much and I would particularly like to continue on and and work that would take us to a higher altitudes with manned aircraft. Now the full potential of the airplane with the small engines had been fully investigated. While the number 2 airplane was being fitted with the big engine, number 1 began a series of training flights. The full crew was now given a chance to try its hand at piloting the research plane. Commander Peterson, the Navy's representative, was the 4th man to ride the X-15. He made two flights in early fall. Then Jack McKay, NASA research pilot, took his first ride at the end of October. Captain Rushworth, the Air Force backup pilot, was next to show his. Skill at rocket plane flying. NASA Pilot Neil Armstrong's last two flights closed the year. Training flights filled the gap while the number two was being given a complete checkout with the large engine since that ill-fated day in June when the explosion whipped the number 3 ship in half. Maximum effort has been exerted toward getting another engine and installing it in ship. Two months of work, weeks of painstaking trials round the clock, days of final preflight, were at last put to the test on the morning of November the 15th. This is the X-15 in its final stage of development. This run, if successful, will mark the beginning of a whole new era of flight research. All right. It's blossom. OK down here, Scott. OK to go right, right there, bump idle. Had a cooling down. Down. Got it. Locks. Turning off the lights, the locks. The turning pressure is going up to 60. And it's 1 or 4. I'm reading 320. Last link is holding at about 55, about 1-2 that bigs would open. looks real good Scotty, you made about a 10 degree turn to be right when you came off. With the new engine loafing at idle, the plane could go to four times the speed of sound. So the speed brakes are open to stay close to Mach 2. You're OK. Just tell us in your own words how the flag went, what you thought of it very well. And the engine and its power is impressive. What was your maximum altitude of speed? Did you have a chance to check that yourself? Yeah, you got about 80,000 feet. And a Mach number approaching 3. Scott, your your radio talks out a bit Hesitant this morning. Before takeoff. What was that about? Oh, no, I think you misinterpreted that. Of course, we've been doing the best we can to get this flight off for five years. (laughter) There's any hesitancy there. that having observed the. Minimum thrust performance of the engine. Do you think that the Airplane now will be able to live up to its design promises of all the good and space, but will exceeded or How do you feel about it? Yeah. Really, without question, I got a little faster today than we'd planned. And we have in our previous flights and my flights gotten faster than we planned because for once in history, we've underestimated the drag on the airplane. I think it'll exceed its original expectations. Just seven days later, the second flight was launched. And on the 6th of December the 3rd both show the engine to have all the abilities claimed of it. These two eminently successful flights closed the year. But the story of the X-15 stands not in the past, but in the future. When every flight is a record breaker, when every trip away from the B-52 is an unparalleled research mission, human hands will be learning a new skill. To thrust deep into unexplored areas, capture vital information, then settle to a safe return from that twilight land standing between Earth and space. OK. Your position looks good, Joe. Let's go to LSI. On haven't got the one minute warning yet. One minute. LSI. Where's the test? Prime igniter ready light free, cool on igniter I. 40 Seconds to launch. Everything checks here. Your position is good, Joe. I'm fine. Igniter ready to launch now. Good night. OK. This is the X-15 research aircraft designed to investigate the problems of manned flight in a near space environment. Altitudes up to 50 miles, speeds up to Mach 6, high speed aerodynamics, aerodynamic heating, structural design, aircraft stability and control in space, and reentry. This was the kind of information it was to provide, and provided it did, here's the story. Before the X-15, the question had been what is to be man's role in space travel? Can he pilot an aircraft out of the Earth's atmosphere, fly it in space, then reenter the atmosphere and bring it back to a safe landing on Earth? There were many unknowns to be discovered, many problems to be overcome before the answer would be known. That today's test flight is almost routine is a tribute to the comprehensive program that has moved step by step, to prove that man can pilot an aircraft into space and return. Give us a 20,000 foot check, Joe. Coming. Up on 20,000 now. OK, I know you've done it, but check your flaps and circuit Breakers. Ready to go? Pressurize. Pressurize. You're in good shape. Flaps and flaps are coming down here, changing it around the ground. The officer now we're down with the second cross country. atta boy. Real good flight, Joe. This is your happy controller going off the air. There have been many men who have helped make the X-15 project a success. One of them is aircraft research engineer Hartley Sulay, who was originally in charge of designing and building the X-15 aircraft. Of course, I'm retired now. And the X-15, she's not the queen of the Hanger anymore, although she's still hard at work. But I remember years ago, you know, it was long before Sputnik that we decided to build the X-15. This airplane, the first hypersonic aircraft, was going to be our first manned space pro. This was a logical step in the research aircraft program. That had begun even before the end of World War II. From the beginning, the research aircraft program was a cooperative affair. The National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, predecessor to NASA, the aircraft industry, the Air Force, the Navy working together. Their first effort was directed at breaking the sound barrier, and the aircraft that would do it was the X-1. Designed to acquire flight data at the speed of sound on October 14th, 1947 with Air Force captain Charles E Yeager at the controls, the X-1 made the world's first supersonic flight. Other research aircraft soon followed the X-1, the Douglas D-558 phase one. To investigate flight with a straight wing at high subsonic speeds. The Northrop X4 designed to fly without a tail. The Douglas D-558 phase two to study flight characteristics of swept wing aircraft at transonic and supersonic speeds. The Bell X-5, designed with variable sweep, and the Douglas X-3 to investigate thin straight wings at speeds beyond Mach 1. The bell X-1A, with its increased performance first of a series of follow ons aircraft to the original X-1. The X-2, another Bell airplane designed to explore aircraft behavior at altitudes above 100,000 feet and Mach 3 speeds. The X-1A and X-1B both later follow ons to the X-1. Step by step, these different aircraft helped nibble away at the unknown, until by 1956, the frontiers of manned flight had been advanced from speeds of 500 miles an hour to Mach 3, and from altitudes of only 40,000 to more than 100,000 feet. Speed altitude. Sure, we kept going higher and faster than we've ever been before. Only because that's where new information where the unknown has always been found in flight above and beyond the limits you've already reached. As early as 1952, the X-15 aircraft was being conceived by the people at NACA. At the Langley Center in Virginia, they began investigating the unknowns associated with flight to the thinnest edges of the Earth's atmosphere. One unknown concerned aerodynamic heating. The X-15 would be the first aircraft to push from supersonic to hypersonic speeds, where the flow of air would heat the leading edges of the plane to 1300 degrees Fahrenheit. Experiment after experiment was run to see if this extreme temperature would weaken or melt basic materials. The data resulting from tests run well beyond temperatures expected for the X-15 proved that there were materials that would withstand this kind of heat. Another problem, after rocket engine shut down, the X-15 would be thrust into a ballistic arc in air so thin that normal aerodynamic control. Would be impossible. How then could the pilot control the aircraft? The answer reaction controls that would allow him to correct role movement and position the aircraft properly for reentry through the atmosphere. But the designers knew the problems of control would never be fully solved until an X-15 aircraft was actually built. We knew the X-15 would look something like this. We knew that it would be a manned aircraft that would fly more than 4000 miles an hour and as high as 250,000 feet. We knew that, like the X-1, the X-15 would be air launched and propelled on its flight by a rocket motor, the most powerful engine ever installed in an airplane. Of course, we didn't know. What kind of rocket motor that would prove to be? There's never been anything like it designed for a manned system. The 50,000 pounds of thrust in its single chamber had to be controllable at the pilot's discretion. He had to be able to throttle this engine in flight. This is Harry Cook, program manager for the X-15 rocket engine. The LR-99 rocket engine was designed and built for the X-15 by the Reaction Motors division of the Thiokol Chemical Corporation. We had had some experience in this field. Reaction motors have built power plants for all of the X-1s and for the D-558 phase two aircraft, but those rocket engines we had made for earlier research planes were primitive forerunners. Of the engine we built for the X-15. 57,000 pounds of thrust with a throttle attached. No engine like this had ever existed before, but Thiokol built one for the X-15. Now what kind of airframe could be designed to carry such an engine? The X-15 was designed and built to take the stresses encountered at hypersonic speeds to go to extreme high altitude and to beat the heat, survive the extreme high temperatures that build up on the wing, fuselage and tail during the reentry to the Earth's atmosphere. The engineering research contribution we made at North American Aviation to the X-15 project was to take NASA's proposal to build this aircraft and to find out how they could be met. Harrison storms. He was in charge of the X-15 program at North American Aviation. For example, they proposed to use a new nickel alloy metal for the protective sheath or skin on all three of the airframes of the X15. We had to find out how it could be used. Inconel x was the name of the new nickel alloy. It was developed to withstand the searing temperatures at hypersonic speeds, temperatures of 1200 degrees Fahrenheit or more. But to use Inconel x it had to be cross welded and no one had been able to do it before. A major milestone was passed when North American discovered how it could be done. North American also originated the idea of fairings along each side of the X-15 fuselage to house control cables and hydraulic lines. This left the entire fuselage volume for power plant plumbing, as well as fuel and propellant tanks. Another invaluable North American contribution was the X-15 flight simulator, permitting pilots and ground controllers to plan and practice flights without ever leaving the ground. From an exact replica of the X-15 cockpit, the pilot could actuate hydraulic and control systems identical to those on the aircraft itself. All this was tied into an analog computer that could program actual X-15 missions and simulate every conceivable in flight problem the pilot might expect to face. Practice in the flight simulator was just one phase of preflight preparation. Another took place in the centrifuge at the Navy's Air Development Test Center at Johnsville, Pennsylvania. There, pilots learned how to take the heavy G forces they would meet when they flew the X-15 up into space and back down again. Hours of training here added two hours in the simulator, extended the preflight pilot training period into weeks and even months. Then came the dramatic moment. The X-15 and its B-52 launch aircraft were ready. North American test pilot Scott Crossfield was ready. Step by step. The X-15 research project had moved to this important event. Now the first of 3 X-15s was about to begin a series of test flights. The schedule called for an orderly progression of tests. In the first flights, the X-15 would remain attached to the B-52. Then a glide flight would be tried. Only then would powered flight be attempted. This careful program of flight tests flown by pilot Scott Crossfield proved the X-15 would do just what its designers hoped she would. From March 10th, 1959 until late 1960, when we delivered the third aircraft to the Air Force. I made 14 captive flights, 1 glide flight, and 10 powered flights. It was all pretty much routine. We North American, that is, went up there to check out the aircraft, to check out the systems, to see how she handled and whether or not she'd meet the specs before we turned her over to the Air Force. But you'll have to go up to NASA's Flight Research Center at Edwards to find out how the actual test programs worked. Edwards Air Force Base in the Mojave Desert in California. This is where the X-15 story comes together, for here is where test flights of all high speed research aircraft since the X-1 have taken place. Like all the programs conducted here, the X-15 flight research project had a simple basis a series of progressive steps to higher speeds and to higher altitudes. But each step, each flight itself had a more immediate purpose than simply to gain more speed or altitude, and each flight was carefully planned to make the most effective use of this aircraft as a research vehicle or tool. Paul Bickle, director of NASA's Flight Research Center. Each flight provided new information or confirmed one tunnel, or theoretical data on the characteristics of an airplane performing in a very advanced flight regime. Each flight grew out of one that had already taken place and led to another still to come. Of course, the X-15 flight program really began. And the simulator months before the 1st airplane was delivered to us. Joe Walker, chief, NASA, Edwards research pilot, physicist and pilot of a long list of research aircraft. Practice or planning in this simulator is the beginning of every flight that's ever been made in the X-15. All pilots assigned to the project first become familiar with the handling characteristics and timing of the X-15 on any given mission in the flight simulator. It's been good insurance for all of us. One of the X-15 pilots who has spent many hours in the flight simulator is NASA's Milton Thompson. Here, Thompson flies a practice mission under normal procedure, with pilot engineer John McKay working as his flight planner in a nearby room where the analog computer is housed. The activity in the cockpit can be monitored on closed circuit TV. The pilot's control movements and the airplane simulated response are checked on a plotter by the flight planner, who will monitor the actual flight from the NASA Edwards Control Center on the ground. The pilot's inputs may also be monitored and recorded by other instruments. Variations from the planned mission are then simulated, so the pilot will learn to recognize their effects on the aircraft. For example, he may get a problem involving changes in stability. These changes are fed by the computer to his cockpit instruments. The pilot reads the changes and makes control inputs to bring the aircraft back to normal. His response is monitored and evaluated. The pilot also goes through what is called trouble school, where failure of 1 or more of the X-15's major systems is simulated. Again, his reaction is monitored. Each pilot gets further practice by making a number of flights in a modified F-1O4 aircraft. He flies over his upcoming X-15 flight course to establish geographic checkpoints and key altitudes in the landing pattern. All flights are made over the high range, a network of ground tracking stations stretching from Wendover, UT, 485 miles South to Edwards in California. The range consists of a master station at Edwards and radar stations at Ely, NV and at Beatty. The flight corridor is 50 miles wide and it contains a number of dry lake beds where emergency landings can be made. Two kinds of powered flights are made over the high range 1A ballistic type high altitude run up to and even above 250,000 feet, and two a high speed run made at a lower altitude, usually 60 to 70,000 feet. During his practice flights in the F-1O4, the pilot must also familiarize himself with the timing and positioning for an X-15 landing at both primary and alternate landing sites, and he makes practice landings using predetermined settings that can simulate the low lift drag ratio of the X-15. Nothing is left to chance in the air or on the ground. These precautions paid off during the following flight when the pilot realized he could only get 30% power and that consequently he would have to make an emergency landing at Mud Lake. Chamber pressure. Push your throttle up and give us chamber pressure. Roger, you got the full throttle. You're running at 30%. Roger, you're going by Mud Lake. It looks like a landing at Mud Lake. I looked from the smoke down there, like there's a very tiny bit of land from perhaps South and a little bit. Wrecked though it seemed to be, both the aircraft and the pilot survived to continue with the program. This was one of only three major accidents, all nonfatal, that have occurred in more than 120 flights with the X-15A remarkable record of reliability. In February 1964, the plane that crashed on Mud Lake only a few months before came rolling out of the North American plant with a new designation, the X-15A2. This modified version was rebuilt for flight to Mach 88 times the speed of sound, where the air flow temperature rises to 2400 degrees Fahrenheit. The new X-15 had a new heat resistant protective coating, a new inertial guidance system, a longer fuselage. External tanks to carry more fuel for longer flights and lengthened landing gear. All the while this new X-15 was being built, tests were continuing with the other two aircraft and they continue today. For every flight, the procedure is essentially the same, every phase carefully planned, every second of actual flight time mapped out in advance. That way, every man involved knows exactly what his job will be from the beginning to the end of the flight. Hours of preparation, weeks of planning, months of study, whole years of research. All this goes with the X-15 each time she leaves the hangar for another flight, for after all, no matter how many flights have been made before, each new test will probe a little deeper into the unknown. She is a research tool, this sleek black aircraft carrying a host of instruments, gauges and recorders to explore the unknown. And every second of her time and flight must be carefully charted. That's why at the Ely &quot;High Range&quot; station at Beatty, at Edwards Sensitive Antenna Watch and listen to each flight. That's why the pilot's heartbeat never really leaves the ground. And that's why in each control room on the ground, the plotting board is carefully watched for any unplanned deviation for any unlooked for change in the pilot's reactions or on the behavior of the aircraft. Position and velocity computers, telemetry receivers and monitors, data receiving and recording equipment, communications receivers and transmitters, they all go into action at the beginning of every flight. In NASA one the project men stand by alert for any possible trouble in the flight while flight surgeons prepare to watch the pilots physiological response, his pulse, his body temperature, hard action, respiration rate all of this will be telemetered to the ground. Then, as always, when time for takeoff draws near, attention focuses on the man chosen to fly the mission. Because of this, the X15 pilot becomes, in effect, the symbol for the entire research team, the one man who represents all the others who have worked so long and so hard to make the project a success. And it is a proud record of accomplishment they've achieved. They have designed and built an aircraft that could be piloted into space and flown back safely to a controlled landing on Earth. They have accumulated important data on aerodynamic heating at hypersonic speeds. They've learned about stability and control of aircraft during flight in near space and reentry to the Earth's atmosphere. And perhaps most important of all, they have dramatized the potential of piloted high performance aircraft in a space environment. At a time when much of the world's gaze was turned toward orbital flight. The X-15 research project has long since achieved its original goals. The aircraft has been flown successfully more than 120 times, and although setting new records wasn't its purpose, it has set a few along the way. Altitude 67 miles. Speed Mach 6. 4,104 miles an hour, the highest and fastest a wind aircraft has ever flown. Today the X-15 moves on to further accomplishment, but now the Thoroughbred has become a workhorse. Carrying a heavy payload of instruments. Undertaking studies of the near space environment possible before only with unmanned satellite and rocket born probes. There are many people who should share the credit for the continuing success of the X-15 research project, but perhaps they will understand if we seem to focus on those who have actually flown the many research aircraft since the X-1. By saluting these courageous men, we also pay homage to all the others who have helped us move step by step, deeper and deeper into the unknown outskirts of space.