There are one million no code app It all depends on the kind and the way I see it, there are three kinds: The plug and play, The kind that needs a decent amount of drag and dropping, and those that need some custom code. In this video, I'll be sharing my recommendations for no code mobile and web app builders for each of these categories. And as always. I know not everyone wants So I'll start with the list of There's links to them in the description so It's ok. I still love you. For plug and play apps, the main factor I look Adalo for mobile For apps that need custom UI/UX, main factor Thunkable for mobile. And if I think I'll need to extend I'd look at how well the no code app Flutterflow for mobile Whichever suits your needs, link to them below. But you know. I'm sharing my specific recommendations You're the one who's actually So before you put your trust in some dude bit about how I evaluate these no code In my head, what I hope to Adrian has the right idea, but I so I'll tweak it to suit my needs In real life, what usually happens is people And ignore me completely. Just in case that happens, could Editor, help me. Alright, let's start. This is the kind of app where you The app isn't the business, it's just a say a business because all these app look the It could be a digital extension Or it could be a simple online Think a restaurant that wants a food ordering app. They're not trying to build the best app, they're trying to be the best restaurant There are other examples. A doctor who wants a way for A fitness instructor who For these kinds of use cases, you take and colors to your brand and then do So now why Adalo and Softr specifically? Well, I think they have a good templates look complete in terms And Softr specifically has an AI app a sort of custom app generated with just a back where my non tech scriptwriter used it to Also, with simple apps like this, the 'founders' don't want to think about hosting - is So I think that going with established names gives added security that you can take or coaching app is probably always going to Now for the intermediate level no code app and not something I made up for this video. 2. Custom apps and intermediate app builders This will include a huge range of use cases For me, this is where the app is the business, It could still be a directory but maybe now you're building a system Or you want to build a coaching platform career coaches, coach handbags, You don't want to use it yourself. You want to attract and retain other users. And different users will have different requests. A good app founder listens to their And by make sense I mean make money. For this, your app builder should give you some Editable logic Customizable UI, and If you go to the documentation section of an idea of what you can expect from the app builder. Look at the left, here are the parts that tell me Thunkable will let me customize my app All these blocks and component documentation Now let's put it next to Adalo's documentation page and I think you can And it's the same with WeWeb vs You might think maybe it's not a fair assessment but it just doesn't have good documentation. 1. Again, if you stick to established names, they are usually honest and up 2. There are lots of capable app builders WITH 3. If you wanna take the risk, Third tier - for the discerning founder, 3. Custom code and advanced app builders This is like the opposite of a plug and play app. Custom code means it doesn't exist on the app functions - it either has to be imported So, in the context of no code, a non tech Because by definition, If you start coding, you're So what this means is the non tech founder And there's no specific function, feature, immediately say aha, I'm definitely Cause no code tools get more and more powerful. But there's always going to be a limit So I think of this third level as founders They want the most flexibility They want the speed of no code, So if something needs to be done and no If not, they hire a developer or It could be that same coaching app. Or better yet, two coaching apps by two founders. One of them uses an app builder that Let's say they are the only The one with custom code possibilities is going to outgun and outclass the purely If you're that kind of founder, then you want is the list of external framework And if you look at Plasmic, it has an The most I've seen in a tool that's still You could get someone who knows ZERO coding, IN THE WORLD, and they can both work on Should I? I don't want to make it all seem like But sometime back Plasmic reached Point is, they gave me a code that my viewers can use to redeem 2 months of free The sign up link is in the description Take it or leave it, but I'd prefer you where you can see in their documentation If you can find another app builder that And there you go, my recommendations for beginner, intermediate, and advanced mobile and web Templates for beginner app builders. Customization for intermediate app builders. Also, while the main factor there are secondary factors This list can go on like my girlfriend, so I'll just stick to my top three Code export - which is where you can and deploy and host it on a different platform behavior of an app without needing a human the code are tracked and you can They're more common in intermediate and advanced app builders, but it's not always And you should be able to find out If you can satisfy your main factor AND you By the way, if you run a business and you want to get to 15 million ANNND you don't currently have tech team Check the pinned comment for a link I don't think I'll ever be comfortable For me it's important people because if they know, they may decide I think it's much more important to Cause tools come and go. But pain points come and stay. So, while you can absolutely I invite you to watch this video on how to find the best no code app builder I go over seven metrics, and I think builder suggestions, or better yet, find your own. So subscribe and leave a like if you haven't