Yes, there were two of them. There were two of them who came to pick us up. Save us. Calm down, calm down. Stay on the line, don't hang up. Hello, Hello! Tell someone to come get us. But tell me. Two years already of a so-called caliphate. In the Sinjar Valley, when Daesh men arrived. On the side of the road, the clothes of those Others managed to escape in time My God, what have we done? How did we get to this point? The Yazidis, a religious minority in Iraq, to escape or die on the spot. They died of starvation. No one came to rescue us. They are killing us all. Kansaa, Roni and the other children There is nothing to drink. There is nothing to eat. As always, the Islamic State group We are here in the name of Islam. Woe to the Yazidis! My destiny is linked If they survive, I survive. Here, people are executed, In a deafening silence, the international community before intervening, 1500 Yazidis were killed by Daesh and 4000 were kidnapped. By starting this investigation, I wanted to answer Two years after the creation how can 30,000 jihadists still resist to the 15 most powerful armies? They strike civilian populations, they hit minorities, They rape, they kill. I announce that the Americans will lead to push back the Islamist threat. Despite coalition airstrikes, Daesh, two years later, is still present in Iraq and Syria. They launched mortars. Faced with Daesh, is the strategy of the coalition and its heads of state the right one? The Iraqi-Syrian quagmire is getting deeper every day. Supported by the Russians, Bashar al-Assad, for his part, continues to massacre his own people. Already 300,000 dead. There are no names, What could be worse than that? Five years after the start of the uprising in Syria, chaos spread At the head of the coalition, the United States is struggling to define a strategy. You don't think want two things? They want to fight against Daesh, the guy who massacred 250,000 civilians. It's not a mystery, right? No, it's not... It shows what's happening when the United States fails to lead a coalition. There is no strategy. You know the saying: &quot;The enemies of my enemies The war against Daesh is a bit like that. That's even a lot. You said to the Americans we have good partners on the ground. They are very brave, With our weapons, Of course they know. On the one hand, but on the other hand, I tried to understand Is there still Of course not. There was never this coalition, and in press dispatches from the White House. It is December 1, 2015, in northern Iraq, Daesh has just been pushed back supported by aircraft Hassan X was a pharmacist today has nothing left. He too is Yazidi. His house, his pharmacy, were destroyed by the war. During this investigation, and will guide us We have an appointment The two pickups in front of us asked us to follow them. On board the Peshmergas, He has just come across a mass grave, the fourth discovered in two days. Here were executed by Daesh, about twenty villagers. Around us, men yesterday, were their neighbors. Don't step on it. When he left, Maybe it's her outfit. Well, they have been in the sun for two years. This is Dahkil's shirt. The scene of the massacre resembles The victims are They were all shot blindfolded, hands tied. It was to blindfold their eyes. There are many. Ah, that's terrible. This is for the hands. This is to tie them up. It's for the hands, it's smaller. In what remains of the clothes, to identify the victims. Yusif Suleiman Aman. He is from Kocho. We must know him. He too was with them. Look carefully and you will find them, The victims of this massacre a village not far from Sinjar. Nawaf Abass Kahlaf Al-Aliko. These murdered men were fathers. Nawaf Abass Kahlaf Al-Aliko. Born in 1952. His wife: Kheno Abdallah Saleh. Does anyone know this person here? Is this your brother? In front of me, realizes that his brother is at his feet. He thought he was in captivity in the hands of the Islamic State and alive. Was he your younger brother He was older than me. What was his job? He was a leader of the Jalalis, the party of the Jalalis. Did you know he was killed I thought he was alive. Sorry. Four more pits have been found in Sinjar Survivors of this massacre that Daesh was forcing them otherwise they were killed. Halil knew well all those He was part of this group of men gathered by Daesh before you can escape. Were you with them? When did you separate? The day before, Did you run away? Where did you run to? I fled by road How many of you were there? About a hundred men. Were you walking? So you personally know My brothers are among them. My nephews, there are five of them. There are the identity documents How did you manage to escape? I was on the road, So I ran away. I wanted to go save my wife. When I arrived, And where is your wife? My family is captured in Raqqa. Are you in contact with her? No. I was in contact Afterwards they were transferred to Raqqa. Do you think they will come back? Honestly, I don't believe so. Amidst the debris, the terrorist organization evidence of his crimes against the Yazidi minority. On the doors, an inscription Once tagged, This house is dangerous. Often, this type of house is rigged with homemade bombs. The day before yesterday, A house like that exploded And they were killed by the explosion? Yes, they came back Was it a Yazidi house? Yes. Before being taken away, Sinjar residents in a building in the valley. The images are filmed Wives and daughters cling before being abruptly separated. For Daesh, in Sinjar as elsewhere, Once removed, Most of them were transported to Raqqa, the capital of the so-called Islamic State, and became sex slaves Where is my Yazidi? Who sells one? - I'm selling one. I pay for 3 tickets ($300). I buy it for a gun. The price changes Other women had to stay behind, living with members of the Islamic State and serve as human shields. In Sinjar, Daesh had found refuge A cement factory, one of the largest in Iraq. I had found the identity cards I have a photo Do you have it there? She died here. Did you find the photo here? Yes, here. We even found we found In every corner of this factory damaged the remains of a hellish daily life. Two weeks earlier, sometimes very young, It's a girl's clothing. This is for a child! Yes, it's for a child. We found this here. That means he had prisoners. They used them as shields They abused children? Yes, I think so. There are certainties on this subject. In the name of God the merciful, the compassionate. Honorable Presidential Council. Mr. President of the Council, A genocide is currently taking place against the Yazidis. Save us! For 48 hours, 30,000 families have been besieged on Mount Sinjar. While thousands of Yazidis are being silently massacred in the Sinjar Valley, Iraqi MP in the middle of a parliamentary assembly and calls for a strong reaction from his country. Mr. President, so that he intervenes immediately The Yazidis have suffered 72 genocides. And it's starting again in the 21st century. An entire religion is being wiped off the face of the Earth. Brothers, I appeal to you In the name of our humanity, Mr. President, I want to... Thank you so much. In the middle of summer 2014, the whole world becomes aware of the monster that has just appeared. A terrorist group and which would make Al-Qaeda appear On June 29, 2014, Islamic State announces a state straddling Syria and Iraq. In a few weeks, Daesh takes control of Raqqa, then Mosul In the fall of 2014, Daesh controls 30% of Syrian and Iraqi territory and would have 30,000 fighters, all ready to sacrifice themselves Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, This is James Wright Foley, a US citizen from your country. Your fighter jets attack us daily in Iraq. Your strikes are causing many victims Any aggression against the Islamic State is an aggression who have pledged allegiance So if you, Obama, are undermining to live in peace then we will shed On June 19, 2014, Just two weeks after the Sinjar massacre, Americans discover with horror journalist James Foley, kidnapped a year earlier Standing next to him, a British national The beheading of the American reporter marks a turning point. On September 10, 2014, Barack Obama took control of an international coalition and declares war Led by the United States, France, Turkey and Saudi Arabia are also included. To destroy Daesh, 15 armies decided to unite. My dear compatriots, I announce to you will weaken and destroy known as Currently, the greatest threat comes from the Middle East and North Africa. They call themselves the &quot;Islamic State.&quot; The United States will lead to reduce If you threaten the United States, The strategy chosen by the coalition is as follows: to pillage Daesh wherever it is, in Iraq as in Syria, in coordination mainly In two years of raiding, The coalition announced that it had struck 13,000 times in Syria and Iraq. During these strikes, 7,824 Daesh fighters were reportedly killed, 6545 buildings housing them destroyed. Targeted by coalition aircraft, 80% of the city of Sinjar thus turned to dust. Daesh men retreated a few kilometers, leaving behind a ghost town This is the body Where? He was burned. What happened to him? He was shot. What do you think happened to him? He had to get out of his vehicle. Was he hit Then he got shot. There, it's another body It's his leg. It's his shoe. Everything is dead here. This is the market square. Was this the market? We are right in the middle of There was a big explosion here. To escape the coalition's strikes, Daesh jihadists had to innovate. They dug underground passages in every city they occupied. Under the gunfire echoing in the distance, a peshmerga captain leads us by the Islamic State. Did you see Have I seen the city? There is no more city. It's over. In these tunnels ready to collapse, we find everything that made up everyday life of the terrorist group. It was from these underground passages that Daesh organized its occupation. In almost total darkness, the jihadists have stored to sleep On the ground, we find and a large number of works, The illuminated base, the prayers of the Quran taken from the Sunnah and the prophecies. These are Afghan clothes. Inside the tunnel, we find a lot There are a lot of weapon boxes here. Many come from Iraqi army stocks looted by Daesh during the capture of Mosul, 150 km away. The war against Daesh is a war of attrition. On the front line the mortars fall For hours, no movement. The lines are frozen. Look at Laurent, opposite. They are the ones who And then a bomb dropped falls on enemy lines. Dropped at more than impossible to see the plane Again, it's the wait. Daesh will respond while the peshmerga captain A mortar has just landed Then a second one. My twins. Give them to me They launched mortars. After a few seconds of panic, the peshmergas hesitate. No, no, no. Don't throw, don't throw, No one really knows They threw mortars it wasn't about us. On the other side, With the Douchka, Aim well to hit them. Do you see the red car? Near the tree? Yes, the one on the left. In the face of Daesh, Kurdish forces have allowed to stem the advance Even though the airstrikes as here in Sinjar, To eliminate Baghdadi and his men, dropping bombs will not be enough. The organization is still holding hostage more than 3 million and continues to multiply the attacks throughout Syria, Iraq and even neighboring Libya. Since 2014, to fight Daesh, The United States decides to support Syrian rebel groups. But American interests The Pentagon's plan Five years after the start of the revolution in Syria, There are said to be nearly 2,000 armed organizations on the ground. Who to support? A real headache Who to trust? Many of these groups are Salafists Others have links to Al-Qaeda. Some are secular, Others are Kurds Choosing the right rebels, it's like doing a blind audition on The Voice. It's very risky. How to choose then? For the United States only one criterion We continue the support action to the moderate opposition. We are committed to the moderate opposition. We still support We will train and equip the moderate opposition in Syria. Moderate, the sine qua non condition wanting to obtain To fight Daesh, are banking on the moderate rebels of the ASL, the Free Syrian Army, deserters One of their leaders, based in Aleppo, is called Commander Oqaidi. For the United States, Oqaidi is a model of moderation. Here he is in the streets of Homs, The man appears As here in an interview on CNN Along the border, the rebels have chained In 2013, the American ambassador to Syria even decides to appear personally in front of the cameras, to show him Oqaidi is officially a moderate. Yet, in conducting this investigation, I came across a video only three months with the American ambassador. Allah is great, Glory be to Allah, Allah is great. This is our brother: Abu Jandal. This August 3, 2013, Commander Oqaidi and his men to attack a military base of the Bashar regime, the Meinecke base. A bloody battle At the time, Daesh had not yet created its caliphate and has not yet flooded the internet But that day, is a happy and somewhat overexcited man. I swear by Allah that we have come to massacre you, the Alawites. You will see what you deserve. The Daesh video is more than six minutes long. Obviously, this cooperation between moderates and Daesh is a rare occurrence. The rest of the time, But this film says a lot and anti-Bashar hatred capable of uniting two enemy forces. I found two of the main actors As you may have guessed, I preferred to avoid I was, however, able to interview Robert Ford and Commander Oqaidi. The former American ambassador on the Yale campus, north of New York. The diplomat, renowned for his excellent knowledge of the field, spent more than ten years He knows Commander Oqaidi well on the video. I suggest that he You don't think that one day This commander was going to fight We never wanted or alongside al-Nosra. But this video is a very good example I know Oqaidi very well, He is not an Islamist, In fact, it is quite moderate. So, why do you think Is it because he loves them? Do you think he wants Or it's because he's against the regime who brutally killed who use chemical weapons, who also has the support of Iran and Russia? So, in fact, this man for which he is ready to cooperate who have the same enemy as him. This is the difference and tactical coordination. After seeing this video, I called him. Did you speak to him on the phone? Yes, I called him I told him: &quot;You know, this video is terrible,&quot; &quot;to see you working with Daesh,&quot; &quot;and worse, to see you thanking him &quot;It is an insult Do you know what he said to me? He told me: &quot;If you had helped me, &quot;then I wouldn't have had to collaborate with Daesh.&quot; &quot;But what did you expect?&quot; &quot;You thought I was going to surrender For Commander Oqaidi, At war, both against the regime and against Daesh, the leader of the Free Syrian Army in Aleppo had to make a choice this August 2013. Oqaidi still lives in Aleppo. Unable to go, we suggested that he come to us in this Parisian studio. On the wall, where he is seen alongside his partner for the day, Abu Jandal of Daesh. The commander seems a little embarrassed at first, then perfectly assumes with the Islamic State. This alliance is not good, The heinous crimes committed and the neglect of the international community towards us are the two reasons that led us to make a pact with the devil. Do you feel Since he had encouraged his government to help you. And we find you alongside Daesh Robert Ford But this alliance was imposed by reality. You make us think we are soldiers. in the service of the Americans. But we receive no orders from them. The Americans, the French, the Qataris, the Syrians are allies. But we don't fight for them. We are fighting for our freedom. I make all my decisions alone. This pact that sends shivers down the spine, it is, according to him, the fault of the international community who abandoned the Syrians. For us, Commander Oqaidi on the conditions of this military alliance with Daesh. We, the Free Syrian Army, But we couldn't invade it. That's when to participate in this battle. He offered his kamikazes And we agreed. If you had to choose only one enemy Bashar al-Assad. If we want to fight Daesh the cause of this terrorism must be eliminated. And the cause is Bachar. First, overthrow Bashar, then eliminate Daesh. This is the strategy shared by many rebels on the ground. But Americans For the Pentagon, American military support will be provided to the rebels. But it is forbidden The one and only target Except that in Syria, Public enemy number one is Bashar al-Assad. The blind and massive violence of his regime has left a lasting impression. In 2011, while a student movement was peacefully marching in the streets, Syrian President orders live ammunition to be fired against his people. His militias arrest men, women and even children. In 2015, a former member of the Syrian intelligence services chooses to denounce He shows the whole world in the morgues of Bachar. 28,000 Blood-Chilling Photos of the one who manages to look them in the face. A series of photos showing Robert Ford, the former ambassador, at his Yale University. There are 28,000 photos like this. They are thought to be They identified 6,800 bodies. Most of the bodies They managed to identify 700 people. Because in fact, there are no names, Which is quite hypocritical, it's when you hear people say When you think about it, It's not that I like Islamists. I don't like them. But I have to say, This man's eyes Perhaps Daesh is capable of the same horrors. I would say yes, definitely. In France, they say you have to choose between the plague and cholera. Yes. But we have to make sure Oh the Arab countries. Oh the United Nations. I beg you, I lost them. I lost them with their mother. In 2013, the regime was suspected of using chemical weapons against its population. Children hit in their sleep die in their pajamas, Barack Obama had promised it. In the event of a chemical attack, the United States would intervene but finally, the White House will back down In the American Senate, against Barack Obama's strategy in Syria. At the forefront of the protesters, at the White House Former general of the American forces, hero of the Vietnam War, the elected official is a respected personality For Senator McCain, The United States lost control of the Syrian conflict that day, but also When the Syrians crossed the red line and used chemical weapons, and even though after saying he would attack, It sent a terrible message that this president is not really serious. Three years Bashar al-Assad, is still in power. Coming to the aid of a Syrian army in pitiful condition, The Russians have been deploying their fighter jets since 2015 and bombed all enemy positions of the regime. Their goal: to protect an ally and above all maintain the Kremlin's influence in the region. Vladimir Putin's Bombs are bad news because they also target rebels In Washington, senators are struggling to understand the American strategy. On March 3, 2016, high-ranking officers were summoned by parliamentarians. The military must explain destroy Daesh Opposite them, Senator is difficult to convince. General Austin, do we allow but also against Bachar? Our recruits must focus on Daesh only. So we told them: we will not support you. That is correct, Senator. What do we do when he bombs the rebels we support? We will support Did we defend them against the Russians or against Assad in the past? In any case, we didn't have that kind of situation. Rebels trained by the CIA, were bombed by Assad Sir, I will not be able to comment Yet everyone here knows that the guys we trained Don't you think that today, because he has with him the Russians and the Iranians who support him militarily and that we are not Sir, it is true, that thanks to the Russians and the Iranians, Bashar al-Assad was able to recover his health. Apart from watching the Russians that we support, You can imagine what these young Syrians feel on the ground with regard to American support? They feel lonely. They are not just alone. They are abandoned because of these blind and massive bombardments carried out by the Russians. The Russians do not use They massacre thousands but also the moderate forces of this country. John McCain is not one to mince his words. He and his Senate colleagues on the White House's policy in Syria. Even if you are a five-star general, getting through the McCain Commission Don't you think they want to fight against Daesh the guy who massacred 250,000 civilians. It's not a mystery, right? No, it's not... Ok, the Russians, The Russians are fighting for him. The Iranians too? Hezbollah is fighting for Assad? When the people we trained will want to fight against Assad, are we going to fight with them I can't answer Can you answer, dear minister? Well, that day is coming. Imagine for a moment that people in Syria The people we train come from territories Do they want to bring down Assad? Do they want to bring down Assad? Most of them Do they want to bring down Assad? What they want is to fight against Daesh. Come on, finally! We know that the Syrian Arabs do not only want but they want to bring down Assad, because he has already killed And that's my question for this committee. How will we force Bashar to leave If the Iranians fight for him? If Hezbollah fights for him? And we are not even able to help the Syrians If I am Assad, because the American government that they will not fight So what you have done, alongside your president, to the Russians and the Iranians. You told the people living in Syria we are more concerned more than anything else. It's a bad day and the region will pay dearly for it, because the Arabs will never accept that. Your strategy doesn't hold up. After 1 hour of stormy hearing, The Minister of Defense barely dares to raise his head in front of the senator. In the impasse, the men of the Pentagon will try from 2014 a new tactic. This time, will be in the region and directly train the rebels. But again, A $43 million failure, to form barely I was able to find nicknamed Division 30. Syrian Captain Al-Wawi participated, to the implementation of this program American officials and made mistakes The training and selection program was very slow. In the end, there were only 54 fighters trained over a period of eight months. At this rate, it would have taken 38 years that the Americans wanted to train. When the Americans wanted to form the 30th division, they said: &quot;We will help you, &quot;ammunition, you will only use it against Daesh and not against Bashar.&quot; They then received very few Lots of money In less than two weeks, was captured by Al-Qaeda During one of General Austin's hearings before the Senate, The parliamentarians are stunned to discover, the actual number of rebels still active on the ground. We heard that our rebels Can you tell us how many fighters are left on the ground? It's a small number. Those who are still fighting, Four or five fighters. Obama's strategy is ridiculed in the American press. The president will acknowledge his mistake This training program was initiated by the Ministry of Defense. The idea was to see if any of the moderate rebels could fight against Daesh I'm the first to admit And the Pentagon will tell you the same thing. The strategic error is admitted. Against all expectations, to relaunch this rebel training program. Has the Pentagon learned from past failures? That's what I wanted to know. A question about this rebel training program. What lessons have you been able to learn from this failure? General Vautel But hey, we learned One essential thing is that we now know much better the people All these people in Syria we know better who they are In short, we understand the situation better. Much better than before. Are you going to allow the rebels to fight against Bashar? Once again, This will be the mission of the forces How many fighters do you plan to train? I don't want to give you a figure. It shows what happens fail There is no strategy. When we say &quot;You can only fight &quot;and not against Bashar al-Assad.&quot; They don't follow you. And so they go including Islamist groups. Like al-Nosra. Yes, like al-Nosra. Abandoned by the USA and its allies, many moderates Until July 2016, al-Nusra was the official affiliate of al-Qaeda in Syria. Today, and severed ties with the group founded by Osama bin Laden. After weeks I was able to convince to grant us an interview The man is one of those We connect on Skype. The jihadist is keen to hide his face. If he chose to fight for Al-Qaeda, it is above all to defend Osama bin Laden. Sheikh Osama He holds a special place Even Al-Qaeda Critics because he is an autodidact by giving away his fortune He gave up his life of luxury He fought to the end For this member of al-Nosra, The American strategy of supporting moderate rebels is doomed to failure. The United States will achieve nothing This opposition supported represents absolutely nothing in Syria. The Americans have no choice Otherwise, I promise you that they will have to face Daesh 1, Daesh 2, Daesh 3. The jihadist assures us, neither he nor his armed group have any intention of striking the West or other targets When I talk to him about the September 11 attacks or the attack on Charlie Hebdo the man assumes the acts committed to which he pledged allegiance. About the attack it was only Since it was his journalists who started attacking us. Germany when she banned this kind of drawing, The project of these Islamist fighters but the way to get there differs. Its goal is also a cross-border Islamic state. The project of an Islamic State is a common dream of Muslims. It is not only the dream but that is the goal pursued including by civilians. It is the will of each Muslim. The West must understand that no one which corresponds to the aspiration During the interview, as a terrorist country, guilty of the suffering of Muslims One thing has been bothering me Looking at you like that on Skype, in the ear These are Western brands, Isn't there What do you think? I have a comment If the West leaves us I assure you that we will make and tracksuits better My little joke does not make the Islamist fighter smile. On the ground, and would have infiltrated supported by the United States and France. At least that's what a former leader of the Free Syrian Army claims, interviewed by a journalist from Le Monde in March 2016. Some moderates are said to have joined a coalition of rebel groups the Army of Conquest. A contradictory alliance, but who perfectly assumes in the name of the fight against Bashar al-Assad. We coordinate We use mortars, tanks, guns And at the same time, al-Nosra sends its suicide bombers to attack Are Al-Qaeda on the ground good partners? Yes. They are brave We don't share their ideology, You also said who support you the same thing? Did you tell them, they are very brave, With weapons, Yes, they know. The French are aware and it is not a problem They know well It's just reality. And that makes you smile, why? Because it's obvious. There are a lot of inconsistencies, This tactical alliance Was it to the taste of the French? Has France given the green light to such an association? Despite our repeated requests, The Minister of Foreign Affairs Only the spokesperson for the Quai d'Orsay I show him an excerpt from the interview You knew that the rebels supported by France and the United States, cooperated with Al-Qaeda? The Syrian reality today, it is a reality of violence, There may be alliances of circumstance on the ground. This does not in any way call into question our position which is that of a political transition and around the elements of the regime This is what the future of the country must be built around. So that's Al-Qaeda. Romain Nadal, There is no ambiguity. Al-Qaeda is one of the terrorist groups and we consider who is not part of the international community. This is an organization Daesh, Boko Haram, Al Shabab, Al Qaeda, These terrorist organizations Officially, pledged to strike the Islamic State. But in reality, Ankara is pursuing another agenda. For the Turkish Prime Minister, but it is to prevent wanted by the Kurdish rebels of the PKK. Today, Erdogan is more concerned about the PKK than Daesh. He is also more concerned about the departure of Bashar al-Assad. So, we would really need But unfortunately, it doesn't exist. Is there a traitor in the coalition? In October 2015, Turkey uses its fighter jets to bomb the PKK Kurds. Erdogan and Daesh actually share the Kurds. In these images filmed in 2014 we even see Turkish soldiers converse peacefully There is a certain complicity at least at the level of Turkish forces who close their eyes. And they close their eyes voluntarily. Because the priority of the Turks, it is the departure of Bachar Between Turkey, Syria and Iraq, a border more than 1000 km long. It is through this that Daesh would sell thanks to the complicity of the Turkish border guards. During our filming, on this Iraqi road we were able to film This is a strategic location. The road that passes Is it strategic here? Yes, it is a strategic road to go to Syria. Because Syria is right there? Before, it was the road which was strategic, but since we control Sinjar, With binoculars, we can even make out probably loaded with oil. There are lots of trucks big trucks on the road between Syria and Iraq. The sale of oil would represent an income of $2 million per day. A business which, would not be possible established in Turkiye. Underground networks which allow Daesh and to supply themselves with ammunition. In conducting this investigation, I was able to find on the ground used by Daesh, Now that's Turkish. MKE is the Turkish National Armament Company. I'm not the only one who found them A group of experts also took some from Islamic State positions in Syria and Iraq. On the ground, By analyzing the components found they discovered having supplied explosives This is really unusual is that the network of intermediaries is extremely well supplied and extremely fast. And when we started investigating we have seen the speed of execution of Daesh intermediaries and including Among the materials needed chemical fertilizers. In this photo taken we see dozens of kilos of fertilizer crossing without the slightest control a border post The question is: are to identify and control Are they investigating who are able to supply Which is quite rare. Take for example These are children's toys. If you want to buy the Lego company will ask you such a quantity. What do you plan to do with it? Which is a sensitive issue In Turkiye, without anyone asking me any questions? I don't know about Turkey, but what is certain is that then it is certainly when you have relating to this type of materials or components, and it is certainly Thanks to these materials coming Daesh has become a master On our way, we often had to be extra careful, like here, while we were filming a church, ransacked by the Islamic State. TNT. TNT. There are explosives right here. Okay, don't touch. Be careful there because... This metal bar Whoever steps on it will lose his life. Inside there is TNT. The explosion is triggered A few meters away, TNT, again Be careful. There's another bomb there. During my investigation, I took pictures of some to show them to Mike Lewis, the weapons expert. I don't know if you see, This type of device but in reality, made it an almost industrial production. To produce his homemade bombs, Daesh guys establish a kind of laboratory, This was where A bomb factory here. How do you know that? Because of this, look! Ah, that's aluminum! Yes. Actually, I don't know but there are the electric cables They took them from houses. They took it from the houses They put TNT in it to make bombs. Ammunition, chemical fertilizers, electronic components, jihadists. The Turks seem to let everything go towards the territories occupied I tried to question at a major conference of the International Coalition in Paris to understand A moment before the interview, his communications advisor I just received a text message, informs me that the minister's schedule is very busy. This is not possible. I gave him your mobile number nonetheless and specify that you are there. This is the Turkish Foreign Minister who does not want to give us an interview. So, we'll try It starts well from the start. Please go see there. It starts so well that the Turkish Foreign Minister leaves the conference in front of us by car. They won't be there This is the one No interview, then. Whatever. I will question the American representative of this coalition who, like his partners, The international coalition against Daesh. A long-term fight. Victory against Daesh. Our unity, our common determination. A common political-military vision. Hello, Laurent Richard for Canal+, You all said the same word Have you taken stock and Turkish allies today? What including is to stop the flow from Turkey to Syria This is a very important point I think we are making but, we still have a lot Still a lot of work to do. Without leadership the United States left within the open field For Riyadh, the war in Syria is a godsend. This is an opportunity to remove Bashar al-Assad but also to confront the Iranian Shiites and those of Hezbollah. By taking control of the game being played in Syria, the Saudis risk This is precisely Yes, I think it is risky. Remember that the Saudis Since the chemical attacks fiasco, they have made plans and they even announced it on CNN. It is no coincidence without warning the Americans. It is no coincidence a coalition of 34 Sunni countries Unfortunately, is that Saudi Arabia with radical groups With the disappearance you leave a free field. The Saudis no longer have One day, a minister we think today that it is better for us to be the enemy of the United States than its friend. All because of the Iran deal. To achieve their goals, Saudis rely which, contrary to the American strategy, are fighting both Bashar al-Assad and Daesh. Among these groups supported by Riyadh, Jaysh al-Islam, the army of Islam. A Salafist group allegedly committed atrocities and even imprisoned Alawites who are of the same confession in cages We are innocent women and children. We have nothing to do with them. Our only concern our children and our loved ones. We ask the regime to stop bombing We face To understand the strategy Through these Salafist armed groups, I met the Saudi Nawaf Obaid. Despite his young age, Diplomat, Nawaf Obaid is also a professor For him, five years after the start of the conflict, there is no longer any doubt. On the ground, are the most radical. The opposition, it is well written but on the ground. They are not too moderate. Not at all, we agree. The word moderate is just to reassure the press. This is what the Americans Arabia, even as a country, we are traditional, conservative, Muslim. By this, one cannot be moderate which exists in Europe, But that is part of the groups It's quite worrying to see this, to see that children to serve as human shields. If now today, there is... We say Jaych al-Islam. You can't tell them, Stop, don't do that, Do you think they are listening to us? If you stopped giving them We stop this and we let Bachar and the Russians bomb them. It's a game There you go, that's it. It's good to be here, to be a university professor, But there is a reality. If we stop giving them, the Russians will stop their bombing. Bachar will stop the barrel bombs. Why did they leave At home, barrel bombs fall If we put them on our heads, maybe they won't Supported by Riyadh, Jaych al-Islam has become in international negotiations. In Geneva, where the United Nations is holding talks on the future of Syria, Riyadh even managed to impose who uses civilian minorities as human shields. Coming specially from Syria, the leader of the armed Islamist group in this palace located on the shores of Lake Geneva, Mohammed Alloush is closely monitored who apparently in this type of meeting. I would prefer you not to film. It is March 2016. A meeting between Syrians, Saudis, American and French observers, takes place in this grand hotel. I would like to meet the radical leader But to approach it, His communications advisor, a Frenchman, will help us. I spoke to him. Great. He said he remembered you. He told me he was doing a lot of stuff, Today or tomorrow? Awesome. I did my best. After hours of waiting, we end up meeting in one of the hotel lounges. As soon as the camera was turned on, that Mohammed When I asked him about the atrocities committed by his group, this was his response. These are the photos killed in Russian bombings. And to think that they claim to respect and Security Council resolutions. They must immediately stop these war crimes. It was Putin himself as well as Bashar al-Assad, the Iranian president and the head of Lebanese Hezbollah. As long as these crimes persist, In Geneva, not far from the Salafist leader, French and American observers, Michael Ratner, frowns The United States and France next to such partner, supported by such a dear friend, Saudi Arabia. A friend you don't offend. In this coalition against Daesh to build peace in Geneva, the Saudis play Do you agree? How important are the Saudis in this coalition? alongside France? It's not a question of agreeing or not. How would you define the role of the Saudis in the coalition... Diplomacy, it is based on realities, on maps. Diplomacy is also geography. What is the geography of Syria today? It is surrounded by states, but also Iran, Russia. In short, you have a whole series of actors Do you trust them? We work in trust We agree on the need and it is the United Nations Security Council which reflects the international consensus who set a transition goal with a timetable. Indeed, Saudi Arabia and its Security Council resolutions. I will show you to find out if for you this corresponds This is the Islam group Have you seen this video? These are civilians who are caged where the Islam group took control. Are these the moderate values for you? that you were telling me about? I will not react specifically I will remind you on the violence committed in Syria, because we are aware... Is You show me shocking images I won't say otherwise. Was it really Since the beginning of the conflict, we have said because there is also violence which are not those of the Bashar al-Assad regime. For reconciliation so that there is appeasement, all the crimes committed by this country will have to be judged. And if crimes were committed belonging to the opposition, These crimes will have to be identified. Jaysh al-Islam is not the only Salafist group funded by Riyadh. The Saudis, also support a group the Free Men of the Levant. An organization founded that we even see here This Salafist group Ahrar al-Cham is for the Saudi diplomat a top-notch armed organization. They are not going to do they are not going to put and kill all those innocent people. Ahrar is not going to do that. Saudi Arabia has Sharia law. Are we bombing and do what they did in Paris? No. Saudi Arabia, a friend who can sometimes A delicate friendship to assume. This is what I feel this State Department official in charge of the fight It's schizophrenic Many countries are associated with us and Saudi Arabia is one of them. He is a very good partner. Saudi Arabia is in exactly the same position as the USA. Is Ahrar al-Cham a good partner? I am talking to you about Saudi Arabia, No, Ahrar al-Sham against terrorist groups. Ahrar al-Sham seems to be a good partner for Saudi Arabia. Are your partners' partners your partners? Saudi Arabia than the United States and committed to combating the financing of terrorism. The Saudis will support groups that are being bombed by the Russians. The United States funds groups but not against Bachar. You support groups Is there still Of course not. There never was this coalition. This coalition was and in White House press dispatches. It's just cosmetic. This war against Daesh, is full of surprises. Here's one last one for the road. As surprising Former US Ambassador Robert Ford also believes that to combat Daesh, the best partners of the United States are the fighters of Ahrar al-Cham, yesterday's sworn enemies. I don't like Ahrar al-Sham's vision for Syria. I am not in favor but I'm American, But I think we should dialogue to take them We will need their support, we will also need their fighters to fight Daesh. It's surprising to me to hear an American ambassador which is a group created Look, there is no If you are looking for I can't give you any. But the only thing I can tell you is that the longer the war in Syria lasts, the more attacks there will be It is precisely what you suggest, that we had, but the worst solution. With Daesh the United States and its coalition ever deeper. Five years after the start there are already more than and around 6.5 million displaced people. Without a doubt, the main person responsible for this massacre, Bashar al-Assad, is the first to benefit more disunited than ever.