For thousands of years, people have protected themselves against injuries with metal armor. For knights and soldiers, armor was the best life insurance. Armament construction, the armorer's craft, a forgotten art. The favorite part of the platemaking trade is shaping the sheet metal, how you can actually slowly grow the shape out of a straight plate until it is almost finished. Then later the assembly, when you see how the whole piece comes together in front of us and then forms a whole, that is of course a beautiful moment. (Machine whirring, clanking) The majority of my customers are actually people who actually want to use the armor parts. That's also the challenge, the stuff really has to fit. So these are people in historical clubs, people who do so-called reenactment or living history. I'm glad that every now and then I have someone who really tries the stuff out hard, because that's the only way you can see whether the stuff is actually suitable and comes close to the original. A record maker's true treasure is the cuts he has collected over the years. His whole experience is basically reflected there. And based on these cuts, he can then outline the piece of equipment that a customer wants, specifically for his size , and then prepare the cut so that it can then be cut out of the sheet metal. There was armor for all classes. Peter Muller's mission: the simple armor for mercenaries of the late Middle Ages. In earlier times, the wealthier class, i.e. the nobility, could afford great custom-made items that really fit 100 percent. The lower nobility probably bought their things from the grocer. So, there were hawkers who also sold armor parts. And then there was the cheapest class, so to speak, which was the so-called armory goods. In other words, armor parts that were stockpiled in city armories to equip the population of a city. And then you just had to take what was roughly right. We now transfer the cut to the sheet metal. The sheet metal is a steel plate. And you can see from this why the medieval profession was called a armorer, because he made plate armor out of steel plates. The steel I use to make armor is called tempered steel. There is 0.45 percent carbon in it. And that means that it is then suitable for heat treatment. So, you can then harden and temper it, which significantly increases its strength. The material thickness for the simple armory chest is just 1.5 millimeters. But that also makes it light and mobile. (Loud machine whirring) With armor there is always a conflict between protection and mobility. Both of these still have to be guaranteed. So you can't go as high as you want with the material thickness. I have prepared a second cut here for a so-called brain cap. So this is a very rudimentary form of helmet. (Machine chattering) The cut is not completely circular. The reason for this is that the human head is not round, but has a greater length than when it expands. After cutting out the workpieces, you definitely have to deburr them. On the one hand, so that you don't cut your own fingers while editing . On the other hand, when the wearer wears it, he doesn't cut into anything. We need to have a rounded surface. (Whirring) The machine here is a so-called air hammer. So this is a forging machine that works with negative air pressure. A negative pressure is created in the rear cylinder here. The negative pressure is fed into a second cylinder via control channels. And the negative pressure here sucks the so-called hammer bear upwards. And when you press the pedal down here, gravity ensures that the bear rushes back down and triggers the hammer effect. There is a rubber cushion down here so that the sheet metal underneath can deform in three dimensions. In the Middle Ages, machines were already available for this purpose, albeit water-powered. (Quiet rattling) Hammer blows are placed close together on the sheet metal, which increases the surface area towards the bottom. This is a process in which the material becomes slightly thinner but has a greater downward expansion. And so you generate a hollow shape in the piece, like the one you need for a brisket. I have to change my workstation from the air hammer here to the hand hammer every now and then because there are a few things that are pretty difficult to do with the air hammer. During the driving process here on the inside, where you actually make dents, the outer areas of the sheet metal react with compressive stress. So wrinkles are trying to form there. And it's almost impossible to flatten these folds again with the spherical air hammer . That's why you switch to a straight anvil surface and then work on it with the flat side of the driving hammer. So for comparison, we now have a smooth side, over here we still have a wrinkled side. The helmet, here a so-called brain cap, was at least as important as the breastplate. Now we start roughly shaping the brain cap. The shaping works a little bit differently. The problem we have here is that if we were to try to achieve the depth that a brain cap needs using purely driving work , the material in the center would thin out too much. Then at some point we would have a hole in it. That's why we're now using the blowing method to form a little bit of a bowl in the middle . And then we then use another process, namely upsetting steel. (Machine whirring) Unfortunately, this cannot be achieved with steel when cold. You then have to bring it to red heat, around 900 degrees, 950 degrees. And when red-hot, it is so flexible that the operation can be carried out. You can clearly see the whole thing by the glowing color of the steel. It should then glow orange, light orange. You have to choose the hammer guide so finely that the micro-folds press into each other within the thickness of the material and so the material first becomes a little thicker and then flows downwards in a radial direction, and so you reach greater and greater depths little by little downwards. (Machine whirring) At almost 1,000 degrees and with hundreds of blows, the material conforms to the blacksmith's plan. (hammering) A few more hours of work and the customer can put on the brain cap, a helmet like the one ordinary soldiers wore in the 15th century. Back to the heart of the armor. The breastplate. Here we have a lead block that is not as hard as the steel surface. This makes it ideal for making such compensating blows to smooth the workpiece. The rounded shape of the breast plate is partly due to fashion aspects. That was something that was copied a bit from civilian fashion at the time. But the technical reason is that any incoming projectiles, be they arrows, bolts or even lead balls, slide off the rounded surface much more easily. If you look at the side view of the chest piece, we're now coming to this point down here. This is the line that sits exactly at the wearer's waist. The individual belly hoops are then attached to this waist piece . These serve to protect the wearer in the abdominal area. They are movably connected to each other using rivets and leather strips. And the whole thing serves the purpose that if the wearer squats down, without this mobility the chest piece would push into his chin. Of course you don't want that. I have now drawn the line where the bend comes in. And especially in these areas here, I bend the waist a little bit. Because otherwise the edge would be in here, so to speak. It shouldn't, but it should point away from the body so that the abdominal tires have space to get over the hips. The tail hammer, or cross impact hammer, only has its curve in one direction. That means it pushes the material this way and that way. And now transferred to the base of the abdominal hoops, you would work with the hammer in such a way that you stretch the material in this direction and in the other. And because the material is stretched apart, it then tips backwards. This processing technique preserves the curve in the sheet metal. At some point you just tap on it in different places on the sheet and then you see a positive or negative effect. And then you ponder: Why did this positive effect come about? In preparation for the next step, I roughly sand the upper part of the chest plate. At the moment you can still get there easily with the grinding tool. (Machine whirring) In German workshops in the Middle Ages, work was very divided. And that was how it was determined by guild regulations. Well, the armorer was not allowed to sand the surface of the armor. That was a different craft. A very wide range of craftsmen were employed. This strong division of labor naturally also made it possible to produce very large quantities. They were needed in thousands, tens of thousands. Then you realize that it was a completely optimized process in terms of both the protective effect and the rational production method . (Machine whirring) The flange is now made at the neckline. This means that you fold the outer edge of the sheet metal towards the outside. In such a way that it has a round, roll-shaped cross section. On the one hand, it reinforces the edge at the top. Then of course there is a more comfortable position on the neck area. When it comes to hammering, it's not just about strength, but about the right technique and rhythm. Once you've done this so far here on the locking horn, you switch to another tool, the flanging iron, and then continue working on it. Armaments construction, the manufacture of armor, is a secondary activity for the mechanical engineer with a doctorate. It takes Peter Muller around 30 hours to create a complete brisket like this . The so-called abdominal tires have been added as further components . As a transition between the actual chest piece and the legwear that follows further down , so-called leg pockets are added to the chest piece. These are these three components here, they are already tacked on with small welding spots so that they can no longer warp during the heat treatment . And that is a technical feature of armor that only appeared around 1490. A cage now has to be welded in on the inside because these thin-walled sheet metal components, when they are heat treated and then quenched in an oil drum, warp very easily. So that means that if you didn't weld in a cage, it would warp, the dimensions would change, and of course you have to avoid that at all costs. (Machine whirring) Ideally, both components would be placed in the oven together and hardened together. Then the dimensional stability is even better. But my oven isn't big enough. In the hardening oven, the good piece is heated to a temperature of around 850 degrees... so that it can then be quenched in oil. A different structure then forms in the steel, which then has significantly better strength values. (Fast bubbling) I have some canola oil here. On the one hand, there is no difficulty in cleaning and washing the piece afterwards and the hardening properties are excellent. Looks good. No delay. (Fast bubbling) If you were to simply take the piece out of the oven and let it cool slowly in the air, then nothing would happen, but it would return to its original state. Now that the hardening process has been completed, the surface is completely covered with oil carbon. So, the hardening oil has now burned in. And since the customer doesn't want the breast in this black state, but wants it polished, we now have to do several grinding processes in a row. (Loud whirring) A high-gloss polish in the Middle Ages, there are also invoices for it, which was also an expensive affair. That was quite comparable to the cost of the hammer work by the armorer himself. This corresponded roughly to the annual earnings of a simple day laborer. In the Middle Ages there were so-called harness mills. These were mills that used water power to drive large grinding wheels. And these grinding wheels also came with different grits. They then gradually sanded and polished the piece ever more finely until it was ready for delivery and returned to the platemaker for assembly. At a much lower temperature, between 250 and 350 degrees, you put the workpiece back in the oven for another hour. Take it out of the oven and quench it in water. (Hissing) You then have the desired toughness of the workpiece. Has less hardness, but overall greater spring-hard deformability. (Drop) In medieval times, of course, these modern screws and threads did not exist. That's a relief I can afford these days. And the whole thing is now being removed again. The connection between each other is then made using solid rivets. (Machine whirring) (Rattling machine whirring) A high-quality polish, i.e. polish that is carried out as well as possible and produces a high gloss, also protects against corrosion. Water or sweat or rain, whatever can affect it, the better the polish, the better the corrosion protection. (Machine whirring) The chest piece alone is only 1,800 grams. Together we weigh 3,300 grams. This may seem surprising, because many people associate medieval armor with an incredible weight. In fact, that's not true at all. In general, this always remains a compromise between protection and mobility. The stability, we are welcome to try it. So, let's see if that holds up. (Metallic creaking) This is just elastic deformation, not plastic deformation. So, it bounces. The elasticity comes from hardening and tempering, i.e. from tempering. Now if that had been the original material, then it would now have been permanently deformed. So. Still fits. The armor parts have to be fixed to the body somehow. This is done using leather straps. And the leather straps are now being cut. When riveting it's like this: you have a harness nail here, you cut it off with a protrusion of one to two millimeters . And then you hammer the head wide so that the nail can no longer slip back through the hole. And then the whole thing is attached. I have a model of the buckle here. These are then placed at the top of the shoulder and then hold the straps that go over the back to hold the chest plate in place. Since the historical buckle models, especially in iron, are not actually available for purchase, there is no choice but to make them yourself from flat steel. Nowadays the only thing that helps is to look at the originals and then copy down the techniques, adopt them and try to recreate them as best as possible. (Metallic scraping) So now comes one of the most beautiful moments in making harnesses, that is the assembly. Now you can see all the parts, how they work together and how a whole is formed. This is of course a beautiful moment. This rivet point was previously sunk slightly so that the rivet head now actually disappears in here. And when the next sheet is mounted on top here, the rivet point is covered. The shape of this rivet is like this, it has a semi-round head. The head is on the outside. To ensure good mobility in any case, a rivet fork is inserted between these two sheet metal parts . Then there is the so-called leather attachment as a type of fastening. I always compare it to a strap that somehow connects roller shutter parts. It works in a very similar way. Let's take a look at the whole thing from the inside and see how the mechanics work. (clatter) The original. Here is a picture of a piece from the Bavarian Army Museum in Ingolstadt. Now let's see how close we got. Little comparison. Yes, the new one is newer. When a piece like this is fully assembled and sits on the workbench, you are of course proud. It's even better when the customer is there. You put the whole thing on and everything really fits perfectly. That's the important moment. Peter Muller also tailor-made the arm and leg sections. The brain cap just needs to fit. The holes in the brain cap here are actually only for ventilation purposes. You sweat a lot when you have the sheet on. And here you can still circulate a little bit of air. So now we're complete. How flexible the armor is only becomes apparent during various mobility tests. How does it feel? - Good. Looks good too. High-tech from the Middle Ages. Delivered through the art of the armorer. Are you as fascinated by craftsmanship as we are? Then subscribe to the channel now and never miss an episode. SWR 2024