- When we do talk about masculinity, we're often talking about In some circles, phrases or &quot;Men are garbage,&quot; I think the word that with masculinity right which doesn't really bode So it's hard to be convincing when you say men are in trouble. After all, like, look around us- all 45 U.S. presidents have been men, and probably the next If you look at the S&amp;P there are actually more than there are women CEOs, period. But that said, most men aren't CEOs and most men aren't president It's easy to focus in on a certain set of men that are the majority of men are I'm Christine Emba. I'm an and my latest book is, So what are the trends that have led men to struggle in this moment? I think that there are three key areas where we can clearly see perhaps even, yes, in crisis. Our labor market has changed due to globalization and We have now moved towards a more credentialed-favoring economy where things like brute strength aren't as valued as they used to be. Some of the jobs and areas that used to be fairly male-coded, male-centric, safe areas for men to work, the industrial sector, And many of the men who used to be in those spaces We're seeing a drop in employment in men, especially young men. In fact, men ages 25 to 34 are among the groups that have dropped out the most from the labor market, which is surprising 'cause Then we're seeing issues in education. Obviously, Title IX was a good thing and it allowed many more women but now you're seeing a sort of flip from men earning most of the college degrees to women doing the same. There was a huge decline in college enrollment during the pandemic. And looking back at the numbers, 70% of the dropouts are men. And then you get to the domestic sphere. Stagnating wages, labor and falling educational rates have downstream effects in domestic life. 34% of young women, approximately, nearly 63% of young men say that they are. More women than men say that they're finding so men, who live up to their standards. You also see a little in traditional roles in relationships. When you think of kind of traditional relational arrangements where there's one higher that perspective has also Almost 50% of women say or more than their partner, which is a huge shift from This isn't necessarily a that women overachieving in education is definitely not a bad thing. But they have provided a perhaps a feeling that the world isn't and men are struggling to in the new arrangement. So I also think about the number of men who seem like they've just These are men who are known as NEETs in the sort of wonky parlance &quot;Not in education, So what are they up to? Well, it seems like Many of them are at home sort of, pouring out their woes whether it's incel forums or men going their own where they talk about how and how it feels like the Then you're seeing a lot frankly, instead of And that's actually compelling It does seem like gaming gives you the opportunity to achieve goals or achieve success in a way that might not be as if you aren't able to or if you feel like you're left out of You also see men following people like Jordan Peterson, who I think are sort of while telling them that the And the thing is, I can't In fact, there is some good When I talk to young what Jordan Peterson one of the first things is just empathy. These men actually do seem that young men and other men are facing, and they're really And then they also try So Jordan Peterson famously says: - 'Clean up your room.' - And while that sounds like pretty basic and straightforward it seems like something that your dad or grandfather should have told you, it speaks to men who don't or that male mentor in their life who can tell them what to do. - 'Just did 25 minutes at 196 - And not just a script for the basics. Many of these manfluencers how to live, whether it's or a way of working out that will transform them And then they also talk about masculinity with a sort of specificity that Many of them describe the process as a summit that the aspiring while these guys are And that's appealing to men who have heard masculinity or manhood denigrated- or who aren't sure what direction to turn. - 'But if I could do it, trust me when I tell you, you could do it. Anybody can become a king.' - So there is definitely that many of these influencers have had, if only that they're, you &quot;Hey, don't just sit on the couch, maybe go out and talk to girls Maybe make your bed and find But there is a downside, One of the things that's notable about a lot of these manfluencers is that they often discuss masculinity, or an ideal manhood, in - 'Men and women are different, and it's a beautiful thing, it really is.' - And in fact, they often spend a lot how feminism or feminists or female agency is what's - 'What exactly is going that you believe is fostering revolution? - Well, you go on their websites and read, read what they say.' - Sometimes the worst of these influencers take this rhetoric to action. - 'I turn and whack and I smacked her.' - So you have a figure like Andrew Tate, who's constantly talking hitting women, dominating women. And more recently, has for actual sex trafficking. So some of this advice to outright misogyny. So while I think that men and are struggling, there has for them moving forward. If we actually want to we have to come up with a one that is aspirational, not denigrating. And I think a positive has to be one that is specific, one that actually speaks to men, that doesn't say, &quot;Well you need to be more like women,&quot; but actually what does it mean How is that good and So what does a positive actually look like? When I asked men themselves, people I interviewed, there were a few things Strength was discussed, not necessarily physical strength, but strength of some kind. responsibility, and care for others. There were discussions about whether being sort of by sexual urges or I think that many of these in some ways by biology. Sex drive and assertiveness are both associated with And I think the key is that you to be pro-social. Positive that feel distinctive to and for the good of society as a whole. When we talk about manhood we often discuss certain traits, whether it's strength or risk-taking or bravery or something like that. And I think there's a fear that by ascribing certain traits to masculinity, we might be saying that those traits can't be If we say that good men are strong, does that mean that women have to be weak? If we say that men are leaders, does that mean that women I think we're afraid of The thing is, this isn't a zero-sum game. The sexes rise and fall together. As a person who loves and my friends, people I want I actually do want them And if we want our broader society to survive and flourish too, both sexes have to be doing well. - Want to dive deeper? Become a Big Think member, and join our members-only community, watch videos early, and