TSMC's coming N2 process node In their 4Q2023 earnings call, new N2 fabs in Hsinchu, Kaohsiung, and Taichung. Assuming those all get built, that is a lot There is also something special about In 2011, the semiconductor industry the now-famous FinFET. Over ten years later, TSMC In this video, we are going to gate-all-around, nanosheet/nanowire ## Beginnings So what is a transistor? Most simply There is a source and a drain. These are made from doping regions of silicon with a dopant That process is called ion implantation. In between the source and drain, we These sit on top of the channel and control it through a phenomenon known When the gate receives a to as the threshold voltage This allows the flow of electrons or electron holes from the source This control of a material's ability to conduct This is how the semiconductor gets its name. The semiconductor material conducts only And the transistor using the &quot;field effect&quot; Some of the first gates were made are made from polycrystalline The metal gate and the gate oxide So altogether now, we have the &quot;metal oxide or MOSFET. Names are surprisingly There are many types and designs of tradeoffs. While the MOSFET design For example, the industry largely used named for having three regions of alternatively doped silicon or germanium. Three In an integrated circuit or IC, we use transistors to design logic gates and the SRAM that serves as an IC's embedded memory ## Short Channel Effects In a perfect world, the And when that transistor gate is closed, it. And when the gate is open, then there But our world is imperfect. And though of its beauty comes from ... when it comes to After decades of shrinking the we started suffering a series of Short channel effects come in two forms. First, threshold voltage, gate opens and creates the current When the channel was longer, the threshold voltage was constant and But when the channel got shorter, we discovered and independent. Instead, it was decreasing - This in turn exacerbates something the gate's voltage lowers below the threshold, it is supposed to cleanly shut down the It doesn't always, and the residual current - like leakage&quot;. The lower the threshold voltage is, the The second major manifestation transistor is &quot;Drain-Induced This is where the source and the drain are the source can diffuse into the drain - often DIBL results in a tiny parasitic current flow, so the transistor is using power even Multiply these two short channel effects over billions of transistors and you got ## Going Multigate Short channel effects originate fields coming out from the source and the drain. The original planar gate sits on top of An electric field projects from that through the channel and into the silicon. But the source and drain project and those are now encroaching horizontally into Kind of like loud talk coming from your neighbors in a bar messing with your attempts For years, the industry knew this they were able to ameliorate Short heavily doping the channel, or reducing Another big move was replacing the gate one with a higher dielectric constant or thus making the electric field projected by the Famously, Intel used High-K dielectrics like gate. This use helped pave the way for advanced Unfortunately, those methods have run structure is needed to wrestle back control In 1984, two Japanese researchers Sekigawa and Hayashi published a paper proposing what The authors proposed a transistor with two MOS&quot; transistor or XMOS since it looked like This brings us to the FinFET, which channel by wrapping it around the channel The first commercial FinFET devices were 2011 at the 22 nanometer process few years later in 2013 with their 16 For more information about I did a video about it a little ## Gate All Around The GAAFET iterates on the concept of the FinFET Ergo the name, &quot;gate all around&quot; paper by Jean Pierre Colinge, M. Actually, the name describes less but rather a whole class of them. The completely surround the channel Within the overall GAAFET category we have two The names describe the shape of the channel - for some reason they remind me of steel The nanowire and nanosheet physical structures the nanowires' smaller channels give flow. But it also impedes the flow This means that we likely have to stack these too many too high, they might interfere with ## Fabricating a GAAFET The process flow for creating a FinFET is largely That's important. The semiconductor industry on the whole is highly The most significant new step was making these patterned onto the silicon substrate using a After that, we create the wells that and the drain. We add a temporary dummy gate electrically isolate the transistor, demolish With this, the front end of the start adding interconnects for the back end. I mention all this because the GAAFET's Using a deposition technique called epitaxy, germanium on top of the silicon substrate. This After that, we cut down through those in order to produce a &quot;Fin&quot; Special attention has to be paid to keeping well as giving it a &quot;high aspect ratio&quot; skinny. These are already important To prevent electrical cross-talk and also Trench Isolation&quot;. We pattern trenches dig them using reactive ion etch, Anyway, when that is done, we can leaving the silicon layers suspended between the of MEMS, where we use &quot;sacrificial To build the gate and the gate oxide, we use atomic layer deposition to I covered ALD in a prior video. layers of metals or chemicals - The big challenge with that is correctly channel. Once this is done, we can channels like as with FinFET and planar ## Gains Just like when the industry switched the Gate-All-Around transition offers benefits. One very significant benefit is the power it is turned off - a nanosheet about 20-35% less power than a FinFET, In terms of speed and density, For speed, it is about 10% at it is about 15% depending on your IC's mix I feel like the power gains would be mobile and AI processing applications. The latter because of the sheer amount of No wonder then that TSMC management said of customer interest and engagement at N2 GAAFETs will likely take existing AI ## Race to the Gate TSMC has pretty much dominated So much so that Samsung and Intel have moving ahead to Gate-all-around in Samsung really led that drive into GAAFET. at least 2003, with their multibridge-channel They first began offering their GAAFET mid-2022. While the node did ship some products, those seemed to have mostly been crypto Later in 2023, Samsung released SF3. We shall see the pickup Intel's named their GAAFET offering &quot;RibbonFET&quot; The first process node of theirs to use it is 20A, an internal node scheduled for the big process node that everyone expects will Intel's GAAFET processes - 20A and innovation - Backside Power. This is where we move the power lines to underneath the silicon TSMC's N2 will not have backside power until N2 processes - N2P and N2X. Many people Semiconductor industry watchers have long looked to the FinFET-to-GAAFET transition as a competition. The first to ship with Only time will tell, but I do want to note for the FinFET and GAAFET. Being very good at the ## Conclusion The Planar Transistor lasted 50 The FinFET lasted about ten years say how long the GAAFET will be. The semiconductor industry's located out in Belgium. In addition they are looking at other transistor One promising design is the forksheet. Imagine a a wall down through the middle of those sheets. away from the GAAFET - which is good - and also And then after that, imec has presented the nanosheets or the fins on top of one another. Anyway, the industry has not even started production yet. But the work shows that now though we look towards to N2