- Did you know you can cut - I didn't know. - Snap a car in half with rubber bands? - That's false. - Make a knife blade out of milk? - That's illogical. - In this video, we're the weirdest questions on the internet. This is an explosive baseball bat. - This is a double barrel 50 caliber baseball bat. - What? - Oh my. - It's powered by 27 caliber rifle blanks. - What? - This quad was about 50 milliseconds. - That's genius. - Did the drone hit the T? It cut before we saw it. I need answers! - That is a very important question, screw the science behind why this is- - All right. More importantly. Wow. - It was flying over the T. - It did. - The drone was like, &quot;Oh crap. Well, my bad&quot;. He's rolling a big one. Oh wait, this is King of Random, he's probably doing some science stuff. - Can you make a rope out of paper towels? - I would think no, but it looks It makes sense though, 'cause like, when you it makes them super strong. - What you're seeing here is a trampoline- - I can't hear you! - It was really loud. My left ear is hurting. This is a trampoline made of - Oh my God. That actually is working. - Ooh. - They didn't tell us how it would've been nice to know how many pounds of force You know what we haven't done though? - Crush a car with rubber bands? - Yeah, we crushed a safe, which I personally thought was one of the most incredible It also looks like a good way for somebody to get These guys are- - Oh! I think what he said is, - And then it squished. I wish we could speak Russian, so we could do stuff with these guys. They seem pretty smart. - Why did it zoom in on his butt? Is that just a Russian thing? You just zoom in on butts? - I think that's a everywhere thing. Everybody likes a good butt. - Have you ever wondered - They're not. They're from movies. - You're stupid. They are. - I should have known this. I was literally there when we cut into a safe in a video. - Hacksmith made the world's I legit held this lightsaber and then- - Jimmy, shut up. They're doing such cool stuff. - Fair enough. - Look at that. It's going Did you get to do this? - Yeah. - It looks like there was Not with the saber, I'm - Cutting your mom. - Hey! - Waterpark made out of tape? - Isn't tape sticky though? - They might be onto something. - I guess tape is kind of and then water slides They could have done this with tarp and it would've been probably way easier. - Three, three, three, three! - What? He just said three 4 times? - I mean there are multiple slides, it constitutes as a water park. - Yo, these guys are They're kind of doing what - But we recreated Squid Game, they bought rolls of duct tape. - That's impressive. Squid Games was already made, it's easy. Netflix, you had the blueprint set up. - Water parks! They had the blueprint! - Not with duct tape. How strong is hair? Ew. Gross. Why does hair gross me out? Hair grosses me out so much. It's the hydraulic press guy. I love this channel. I'm shouting him out, 'cause I like him. - Wait, are they going to be able to lift that with just hair? Oh my God. Hair is strong. - It can lift whole 277- - Wow. The hair on your Take someone with long hair, you're telling me you can - It would probably hurt profusely. - Does the hair on the video - That's a good point, dog. You got me on that one. - A boat made from plastic water bottles. Apparently you can just make any- Why is your hand on my hand? - Why don't you want to touch my hand? - I'll let it slide this one time. Apparently you can make a boat - They're going like rafting in it. Flying a man with only balloons. - David Blaine did this. Are they doing what David Blaine did? - This is pretty crazy. Dude, this is what we tried - Wow. - What happens if all the - He pops on the ground - Not worth it to me? - I would do it. Sign me up. - I jumped off of You haven't seen it yet, but you will. - Gaming. - Not this channel, you're right. - Wrong channel. - I forgot. This is the good channel. You should subscribe. Oh no, Jimmy, I'm sorry. You're going to watch somebody and actually do it. You're going to see somebody - Hey, we tried to make - He still achieved flight. - No way. Are you kidding me? - If that keeps going, that's the coolest thing Now there's just a runaway - No, I think he has control over it. Look at it, it's like listening - I bet they're just like, &quot;There's no way this is going to work. Just throw it&quot;, and then it works. And they're like, &quot;Oh&quot;. - &quot;Oh crap, now we got to stop it.&quot; - Now there's a leaf blower plane terrorizing the town. - Let's say you need some food and all you have is your and you need to go fishing. Now, what you going to do is get some thread from your grandma, she won't miss it. - This is definitely a question - Well, now you got it. No chance does he actually catch a fish. - Oh guys, I got a big bluegill. - Wow. He should have put chicken nugget on the end of the fishing hook, as well. - That's a pretty I know that sounded ironic, to catch on a McDonald's box and a straw. - A McDonald's four piece box and a straw. - I love how he has all so he looks so serious. Can you cut this- - Thing with paper? - We did this in a video, back in the day. - Oh, look at the It's like you go on Google and you go, &quot;What can paper cut?. Wow. Look at all these - Everyone does the same thing. Now we're back to the - I didn't know he owned a suit like this. He should wear this more often. - He should have wore - Yeah, it looks good on him. Look at that. - And he made a working Iron- Oh. - Who? An Iron Man shield? An Iron Man shield? - Get it out. Get it, I deserve- - Mr. Tony Starks known for his shield, the symbol of Iron Man. - I deserve it. Are we done? - Yeah, all the Marvel aren't you? I want to say this, I'm so glad that Disney - Bro, he's shooting lasers and you're talking about stupid things. Oh! - Oh, that's so cool. - I'll admit it. He's cooler than us. Specifically Chris. - That's a low, low bar. Self-deprecation, the best form of comedy, 'cause nobody else gets Tesla versus tank - Which is winning, tank or Tesla? - Mm. I'm going to say tank. - Tesla. - Gentleman's bet? It's our honor on the line. - I vote Tesla. He votes tank. If you are right, nothing happens. If I'm right, I shave your eyebrows. - No, shaving eyebrows is my thing, I like shaving your eyebrows. I just want to do it once. The internet would love it. - If that's your fetish. - My fetish is this guy in this tank top. He's killing it. - Three, two, one, go. - Uh. - Oh, that was- What was the point of the countdown.? Oh, Elon Musk. - Uh. Elon, what are you going to do? Your car can drive itself, but versus an artillery vehicle at war, it would be incapacitated. - What's the point of Tesla having the highest safety rating of all time, if it can't tow a tank? - Your child might be safe, - See that water jet, do you think he can cut - Well. - Get to the point. - There's no point, it's a ball. - That's all I wanted. - Nice. Like a cake. - How do you make a machine - PSI, pressure per square inch. And by pressure I meant pound. - Wait, bowling balls are thick? - What did you think they were? - I thought they were hollow. - You've never watched, &quot;How It's Made&quot;? It's a fidget spinner rocket. Genius. - Wait. - That's dangerous. Directly behind what got caught on fire. - Wow. Oh, it lost a firework. - That's going fast. That was needlessly dangerous. Hey guys, don't do that at home. - But cool. - Cleaning tank. - It's a tank that cleans. It's literally a cleaning tank. - That is genius. Dude, sometimes I think I'm &quot;Why did I never think to do this with like a RC car or anything?&quot;. I was a stupid child. give your kid an RC car but put a little vacuum on the front. - Yeah. it cleans the house. I should just be a father. - I should put all of in front of Tucker and if he can't somehow put together this cleaning robot, then- - Put him up for adoption. - Gone. - This next person's going - Wait, why the milk lumpy? - You mean chunky? - Why it chunky Jimmy? - Because it went bad. Wait. - I'm disgusted. - I'm disgusted, but how this works. Yeah, I can't stop watching it, but I'm utterly disgusted. - Milk hardens if you leave it out? - It hardened over time, - That's why you should - And never drink chunky milk. - You know what else they should check? - What? - The subscribe button. If it doesn't say subscribe, Bye.