Leave a barrel of dead fish out in the hot Mediterranean sun for two months and you're going to have a rancid putrid mess. But leave a barrel of dead fish and salt out in the hot Mediterranean sun for two months and you're going to have one of Ancient Rome's most prized and oft used condiments: So today I'm going to teach you how to make your own garum at home in a lot less than two months and without offending your neighbors. So smash that like button the way Caesar smashed Pompey's army at the Battle of Pharsalus and get ready to learn about garum this time on Tasting History! (music) Garum, sometimes called liquamen, is fermented fish sauce. And before you say, &quot;Ewww, Rome! Gross!&quot; You have to realize that we still have fermented fish sauces with us today Worcestershire sauce is made with fermented anchovies and different varieties of fermented fish sauce can be found throughout cuisines in East Asia Nam Pla in Thailand, Nuoc mam in Vietnam, and Aekjeot from Korea, just to name a few. And I am apologizing for my pronunciation of probably all of those sauces. And in the small fishing village of Citara in Campania, Italy, they make something called &quot;colatura di alici&quot; which translates to &quot;anchovy drippings&quot; and is probably a direct descendant of garum. If you don't want to make your own garum you can go ahead and use this as a good substitute. I will put a link in the description where you can find some. But since Tasting History is all about trying to recreate the dishes of the past rather than just by their modern cousins, I decided to make my own garum. Now when I ventured down this fool's path, I assumed it would take me a couple months because the traditional way of making garum, like the Ancient Romans, did would be to take a large vessel put a layer of whole fish, then a layer of herbs, and then a thick layer of salt about two fingers thick, and then just layer that up all the way until you fill the entire vessel. Put a stopper in it and set it out in the sun for two months. Every once in a while kind of plunging it and mixing up all the juices and I was going to do this, for you, the viewer, who I care for so much But then a friend of mine who had ventured to Laos told me about a run-in he had with the factories that make their fermented fish sauce and he basically said you cannot do that living in a condo surrounded by neighbors... They would probably call the cops thinking that there was a dead body over here. So I was disheartened but I kept up my research into Roman cuisine anyway. And I'm so glad that I did because I found out that making garum is covered extensively in a work called the Geoponica Which dates from the 10th century and is from Byzantium, which is the Eastern Roman Empire and it's said that it's based on a sixth century Latin treatise. Now it actually mentions five different recipes for garum and some of them have wine, some of them have different fish, different ways of preparing the garum But I'm going to read you two just to spare you from reading all five The best garum, called &quot;haimation&quot;, is made as follows: take the entrails of tunny fish and its gills, juice, and blood, and sufficient salt sprinkled on. Leave it in a vessel for two months at most. Then pierce the vessel and the garum called haimation will flow out. Kind of reminds me of that little spigot on the bottom of our cold brew jar and I'm guessing that just like the cold brew, a tall ice glass of garum in the morning will really get you going! But it's this next recipe that rekindled my hope of making my own garum at home because clearly the author of the Geaponica knew that sometimes you just can't wait for your fish juice fix. If you wish to use the garum at once - i.e not expose it to the sun, but boil it - make it in the following manner: take brine and test its strength by throwing an egg into it to see if it floats; if it sinks it does not contain enough salt. Put the fish into the brine in a new earthenware pot, add oregano, put it on the fire until it boils - i.e until it begins to reduce. Some people also add defrutum. Let it cool and strain it two or three times, until the liquid is clear Seal and store it away. Now defrutum is a syrup that's made from reducing must, which is freshly crushed grape juice with the stems, seeds, and skins in there and I don't have any of that right now. So I decided not to use it and that's okay because he does say &quot;some people use defrutum&quot; and I ain't some people! So with the Geoponica giving us full permission to make quick garum Let's do it! First you'll need about 2 quarts of water, then a ton of sea salt - probably close to a pound. It's going to depend on different things like the salt, the water, and the temperature of it, but he gives us instructions on how to tell when it's ready, so we will do that with the egg later on. Then some dried oregano. I went with 2 heaping teaspoons. Then, if you want, you can add some defrutum - if you have it or have musk that you can reduce. I'm not going to - one because I don't have it, and two because I want the star of the dish, the fish, to really shine through but you can also use honey there are records of honey being used or other kind of sweet things so go ahead and use it if ya want. Then you'll need about 2 pounds of small whole fish. You can use mackerel, or sardines, or anchovies, or herring... Anything that is an oily fish. Now they also use tuna as as in that first recipe, the tunny fish but... I mean, how much are you making? A tuna is like this big so... Stick with mackerel at most because even a mackerel is kind of big. Lastly you'll need that egg that I mentioned, but that's more of a tool rather than an ingredient. So first we make our brine. Go ahead and start adding salt to the water. I'd start with about 400 grams at first and then work your way up. I ended up using just over 400 grams. I ended up switching pots because the large pot is actually better for making this but the small pot was better for testing it with the egg, because in the large pot the egg wasn't even covered so I couldn't tell but mix it in and every once in a while put the egg in there and once it floats stop adding salt. Now if you end up adding too much salt, that's okay. It's just gonna fall to the bottom not a huge deal. Then the recipe says to add the fish to the brine in a fresh earthenware pot... I don't have that so I ended up using a stock pot. So add the whole fish to the water, and the oregano, and stir everything together Then it's time to boil it. So put the pot over high heat, and let the fire do its work You're going to boil it for between 30 and 40 minutes and every 10 minutes go ahead and kind of give that fish a mashing with your spoon just to break it up. It should break up after the first 10. So as your house fills with the scent of boiling fish - (my cat loved it by the way) - I'm going to show you why garum was such a popular condiment in Ancient Rome... (epic intro) Noble garum! Lordly garum! The taste of the sea! There was no end to the accolades that ancient writers put on garum. Pliny the Elder called it &quot;choice liquor&quot; and his favorite was garum sociorum, often translated as &quot;garum of comrades&quot;. It was made of mackerel and came from Southern Spain, and he said that, &quot;Scarcely any other liquid except perfume has become more highly valued.&quot; And while not all garum enjoyed such a price tag, it did become quite the booming business in the Roman Empire It's thought that garum started in Greece with a sauce called garos, probably made from a fish called garos, which is the Netflix Remake of A Fish Called Wanda. But when Rome took over Greece, the garos took over Rome and became garum. See, the Romans didn't really salt their food. So instead in pretty much every recipe that we have from antiquity, they use garum to Impart sodium to their dishes and in doing so it also gave a certain umami flavor which the Romans must have loved because in the most famous collection of Roman recipes that we have, De re coquinaria, nearly every recipe uses it, though by then it was called liquamen, but that is the story for another day Not surprisingly, it was used in fish dishes, and meat dishes, and in most of the sauces but it also found its way into vegetable dishes, and fruit dishes, and used as a salad dressing, and even in some of the dulcia recipes, or sweets, because fish sauce in dessert... what could go wrong? And it wasn't just used as flavoring, because it was quite the cure-all if Galen had anything to say about it. Now you might remember Galen from the episode on the Black Plague cures - which I'll put down in the description below - Galen thought that foods controlled the humors in your body which control your health. Every food had some degree of hotness, dryness, coldness, or wetness, and garum was no exception. He says that garum &quot;has the considerable capacity for heat and dryness, and on account of this, some doctors treat putrefying ulcers with it, and inject it into people with dysentery and sciatica.&quot; Now if you take anything away from this video, it should be that, despite what Galen says, you should never ever inject anyone with fermented fish sauce... EVER! Also while in one writing Galen says that it's a treatment for diarrhea... In another he says it's a treatment for constipation. So... Hmm... Just kind of seems like Wacky Galen's Miracle Tonic. I don't trust this Galen guy. Pliny the Elder, who I usually think of as a little bit more reputable, says that it was a good treatment for dog bites and earaches, and if you had stomach troubles, then the best cure was to eat African snails marinated in garum. Oh, but it needs to be an odd number of snails... because... that's a thing... But while it was medicinal to some others thought that the condiment exacerbated gout, caused melancholy, and destroyed your teeth... So I don't know who to believe. But regardless the fact that it was in almost every roman dish and it was used as medicine means that it had become quite the precious commodity by the time the Empire took off. Garum factories were sprouting up all around the Mediterranean. In Judea, they made a kosher version for the Jewish population. And in Pompeii, it was known as gari flos scombri, or the &quot;Flower of Garum&quot;. Now production centers tend to be, of course, on the coast because plenty of salt and moving fish probably expensive, but also because the fish had to be very fresh. The poet Martial said, &quot;Accept this exquisite garum, a precious gift made with the first blood spilled from a living mackerel.&quot; But as the Empire's greed for garum grew, coastal towns had to say, &quot;Hold your horses this stuff stinks!&quot; There was a Byzantine regulation from the Hexabiblos that stated that any new garum factories needed to be built three stades away from any village or town. It's about three-eighths of a mile. I'm not even sure that that would be enough So yeah, lovely as the flavor might be, there were some that had less than great things to say about it In an Epicurean tirade, Seneca the Younger said, &quot;What? Do you not think that the so-called 'sauce from the provinces', the costly extract of poisonous fish, burns up the stomach with its salted putrefaction? What? Do you not judge that the corrupted dishes which a man swallows almost burning from the kitchen fire, are quenched in the Digestive system without doing harm? How repulsive then, and how unhealthy are their belchings, and how disgusted men are with themselves when they breathe forth the fumes of yesterday's debauch! You may be sure that their food is not being digested, but is rotting.&quot; Not exactly commercial copy for garum there... And even Pliny the Elder and Martial had trouble making up their mind about how they really felt about garum. Martial once commended a young man for making romantic advances toward a woman who had already had six helpings of the stuff that night and Pliny the Elder, who had called it proud sauce and exquisite liquor, also described garum as &quot;the guts of fish and other parts that would otherwise be considered refuse, so that garum is really the secretion of putrefying matter.&quot; And he's kind of right, but, to be pedantic, it is not putrid but rather fermented. With the salt there to stop putrefaction, the breakdown actually comes from enzymes in the fish's own digestive system so that essentially it's digesting itself over the period of several months Kind of like the sarlacc pit... Anyway, let's get back to our own sarlacc pit in the kitchen. So once the fish has boiled for 30 to 40 minutes, take it off the heat and let it cool. Then pour it through a colander. Now, it says to strain it two or three times I ended up doing it like seven times. Making a huge mess while doing it because I started with cheesecloth. I wouldn't do that, it's just not enough. The best thing that I actually used was a paper towel and then a tea towel. So here is my bottle of garum: a nice kind of pale yellow color. Also if you are bottling this, because it's going to last Forever due to the high salt content, but you do need to make sure that the bottles have been sterilized. So, you know... boil those bottles. Now, usually this is where I would taste the food that we've made. So I would just take a swig of this, but if you've ever taken the Latin course from Duolingo, as we all have, one of the first things you learn is: Garum non bibis. Or: You. Do. Not. Drink. Garum. But I really want to try it in its pure form before I add it to another dish. And luckily Pliny the Elder says that if you dilute it to the color of honey wine, you can go ahead and drink it. So before I try it - I've diluted a glass here - I'm going to first tell you how it smells in its purest form so... Fishy... Smells veeeery fishy... Okay. So I'm going to try this in the name of science But before I do I want to let you know that next week I'm actually going to use the garum for its intended purpose: which is as an ingredient. I'm going to be making mitulis, or mussels, as described in the De re coquinaria by Apicius. And that's what we'll be talking about so make sure to hit that notification bell when you subscribe so you'll be notified when that comes out! Okay! Enough stalling Here we go Garum Oh, I feel like that episode of Friends where Ross is going to drink the fat It's just a vanilla milkshake with... pieces of... fish in it... There aren't actually pieces of fish. It's been well strained. But okay, here we go - enough So whoever said that it was the taste of the sea... is right. It tastes like... the ocean, It's not actually as fishy as I thought, it's more of just like salt watery. It tastes like the ocean I think that it actually might be a very nice ingredient. That said I'm not going to be putting it on a salad and I'm definitely not going to be finishing this glass so... yeah. Anyway, please like, subscribe, and I will see you next time on Tasting History!