A month prior to take-off put a man on the moon, and astronaut Neil small step for man, one giant leap for mankind." The US wants to do it again and perhaps have step for man." Although, admittedly, it won't be the same That shows how little interest the US public When Apollo 11 took off on July 16, 1969, Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins to come. The images of them walking on the moon would and when Armstrong said, "The eagle has half-baked on beer at their house parties, Things were not exactly the same when the If you'd have picked up a newspaper in 1970, to read about the mission. It seemed that the hard-to-please public was and you can bet that not many people knew Jr., John L. Swigert Jr. and Fred W. Haise But while the US public is less interested mission is about to break new ground. People will flock together in their living a party atmosphere this time. That's because something terrible was about It has to be said, though, that the mission's in space flight again. Hour Zero families and relatives of all three men are The astronaut Jack Swigert shouldn't even He's just replaced another astronaut due aka German measles. This is the first thing that has gone wrong. Swigert at least doesn't have a wife at That can't be said for Fred Haise, who, Haise's 9-year-old son, Stephen, doesn't his daddy is doing, although his pregnant In a few days from now, she's going to be if, in years to come, she's going to have her husband out of going on that mission. After all, she's well aware of the dangers What she doesn't know is that they are traveling As for the commander of the mission, Jim Lovell, He has four kids with his high-school sweetheart, Their daughter Barbara is 17, and she understands Pun intended. Their son James is 15, Susan is 12 and Jeffrey The entire family will soon hear that their death or die slowly as his oxygen runs out. It's going to be a hellish few days for Everyone except the 4-year-old knows what supposed to be the first spacecraft flown the moon, didn't quite get there. All three men were incinerated in the cabin With space flight, there are literally a million devastatingly exemplified than in the 1986 just 73 seconds after take-off. In short, the families of these three men now, their nerves are as frayed as Charles Hour One at the Kennedy Space Center is about to take Mission control does the countdown. "10, 9, 8...ignition sequence has started...6,5,4,3,2,1,0...and...we The time is 2.13 EST. Destination: the moon, or more specifically, 200,000 people who've come to watch the horsepower beast leaves for the skies. That's not a bad turnout, but nothing compared 11 lifted off. People watching the event on television hear up to 7.6 million pounds of thrust, has cleared Another voice says, "This is mission control at this point." People are told that the trajectory is looking Mission control lets them know that 1.2 miles at 1,500 feet per second. At home, the men's families jump for joy, quite right up there. At about five and a half minutes, the center This isn't good at all. It shut down two minutes early. It means that the remaining four engines have and that the S-IVB third stage engine has That all has to happen for Apollo 13 to get Mission Control isn't happy, but everyone that doesn't go exactly to plan. They're just hoping that this little glitch mission. It's not; not by a long shot, but the next sailing for the crew and ground control. Hour 30 The three astronauts are fooling around, talking facial grooming. Jack Swigert makes a joke, saying something The mood is good among the men. They are told some golf scores, and then Jack their pee in the spacecraft. This transmission is between the guys and Communication - the astronauts on Earth who They take the CapCom job in shifts. Hour 46 At some point, a guy named Joe Kerwin, who's reports, "The spacecraft is in real good We're bored to tears down here." Just after he says that, the master alarm It's a false alarm though. The guys then listen to a song as Kerwin winds looks great and that they have "all the He is well aware that space travel is extremely Hour 47 tank, after which they discuss changing their There's also a problem with the Command The mission is still going according to plan. Hour 52 the crew. Everything looks normal, so they can afford Right now they're traveling at 2,323.4 mph (273,000 km) from where they took off. Hour 55 starts a live TV broadcast for the folks back As interesting as this should be, quite a It's as if people just aren't interested Haise tells the people at home how they sleep The guys tease each other as they always seem Weep for Me." They are making space travel look like a walk want to do if you were claustrophobic. At 55 hours and 45 minutes, Haise goes up the hell out of him. Lovells tells the new CapCom, "Every time It's at this point that the TV transmission Lovell is the one who signs off, telling people wishing everybody there a nice evening, and of Aquarius and get back for a pleasant evening Good night." Aquarius is the lunar module, and Odyssey We'll talk more about this soon. The people down on Earth have just witnessed acting like teenage kids, pranking and teasing It seems to them that space travel isn't Hour 56 It sounded like someone hitting a large piece someone squashing a rather large can of Coke. This is when Swigert says, "Okay, Houston, They look at the oxygen tanks and fuel cells; Oxygen tank two has little to nothing in it, to run out. Mission control responds by saying this is They say the gauge readings might just be Lovell explains that he is pretty sure he It's not quite panic stations time yet, to be a minor something like the earlier issues. This is serious. Lovell says, "We're venting something out It's a gas of some sort." What they don't know just yet is that there which basically ignited a bomb. It exploded when Swigert started what's of the tank - and this caused a 13-foot (3.9-meter) The two main parts of the Apollo spacecraft The command module is where the cabin is and It's where much of the equipment is and This is a cone shape. The service module is where they store lots propulsion from and electrical power. It's shaped like a cylinder. They are both connected by a kind of umbilical As for what's gone wrong, it will become You see, the command and service modules were But years before those guys took off when Center, it was decided that 65 volts would So, engineers were told to redesign the components So far, so good, but the problem was the oxygen These are not only for the men to breathe to all the spacecraft's systems. In short, there is a thermostat in those oxygen them is regulated, but the company that made the new voltage change. This might not have been such a big issue design stage of the tanks, someone had dropped But as it didn't seem damaged and did fine space with the other tanks. Nonetheless, after it had been put inside other tests. That's because when it had been dropped, damaged. Technicians managed to find a way to make the tank up so much that some of the insulated If that makes little sense to you, don't All you really need to know is that Apollo of it, making it a flying bomb. When Swigert was ordered by mission control the stir button, what he or no one else could insulation wiring caused a spark. We don't need to tell you that a spark inside The oxygen fed the fire, and the pressure not just it but many of the other things inside The three astronauts were now 200,000 miles some of its vital parts. Hour 56 that the other oxygen tank is leaking badly. He tells them, "It is slowly going to zero, lifeboat." Swigert replies, "That's what we have been Ok, we should explain something else. The LM means Lunar Module. This is the part of the spacecraft that is It's connected to the command and service It was the part of Apollo 11 that you saw production studio for some wild-eyed people. In this case, the astronauts are thinking It's never been done before, but hey, without up there and without oxygen they will slowly The mission is aborted. It's now time to think about getting home. But with so little power, they have to power It will get very cold in there soon. Even though escaping in a lifeboat doesn't taking it all in their stride. They later say that they weren't thinking Much more is about to go wrong, though. Hour 58 he wasn't expecting to return to Earth so No one laughs. His wife is now at home worried out of her She's been informed about the problems, an emergency return. It's fortunate for the men that the explosion then there wouldn't have been a lunar module They all would have died, without a doubt. But even now, things are looking grim. No one has ever tried anything like this before. Hour 59 given that they now only have 15 minutes to The power is almost gone, and no power means Haise and Lovell float through the tunnel to ensure everything is turned off. There are a few things they have to bear in The Lunar Module is only supposed to have 90 hours. They should have enough oxygen, and even if full of oxygen that were supposed to be used There are also backup packs of oxygen for Food is a concern, or lack thereof, but water They don't have much of either. Still, if they don't power down, they won't That's why all non-critical functions are Hour 61 Lousma, who's still on the CapCom, teases all just a training exercise. Hour 67 has been told about what's going on. Mission control is currently in talks with When Nixon is asked if he will listen to updates, it to me." Hour 68 public now knows there's been an explosion, back. It's about this time that Lovell is heard for a long time. Another major problem is the course they are They were supposed to land on the moon and Going straight back was never on anyone's The command module navigational platform has that doesn't mean they can easily verify They believe the Service Propulsion System them back is now broken, so they decide to rather than just thrust back. They are literally going to swing around the Space isn't the kind of place you can just They have the Lunar Module's Descent Propulsion have to make a lot of difficult calculations. It's fortunate that before Lovell left the information from the module's guidance system. They will need to do another burn once they If they aren't able to do this for some and miss the earth by thousands of miles. Also, when they do that flight around the on Earth, but the good news is, during this awe, snapping pictures like space tourists. Hour 79 NASA has chosen a four-minute burn, which hopefully land them in the Pacific Ocean. Hour 80 the astronauts Pete Conrad, Buzz Aldrin, and Hour 81 The crew decides that their best chance of normal intake. They will eat hot dogs and wet-pack food. They know they will become severely dehydrated, They can only drink just 0.2 liters of water The entire crew will lose a total of 31.5 Haise even develops a urinary tract infection. The men have already decided not to drink They put it in bags, believing that they could Hour 82 It's now 38 degrees Fahrenheit (3.3 C). It's dark, and they are hungry and thirsty. They think about putting on their spacesuits, use anything they can find to cover themselves. They also slip on their lunar boots, which Hour 85 it's worried about what consumables are going to be comfortable at all." Hour 90 asks Swigert about the new income tax rule amount of time. It's just a joke and helps with the men's Hour 93 two people. What that means is the canisters inside it enough of it. This could lead to a dangerous build-up of It doesn't help that the command module uses round canisters. So, they can't take the canisters from the This is a matter of life or death. The men put their heads together, and with canisters out of plastic bags, cardboard, It works. The Co2 levels go right down. Hour 118 The reply is, "Roger that, we are trying It will be a few hours before they get the to happen. Lovell waits a minute and explains that he's He has just found some hotdogs, but it's What's important here is that when they re-entry, it will be a completely unique operation. There are no procedures for this since no It takes a lot of effort and a lot of brains Staff on the ground work through the night how to perform the re-entry. As NASA says at a press conference, they've crew to do through their simulators, everything Back in space, the men have thrown away the They've never powered down a command module up either. They need it to re-enter since the lunar module a heat shield. It also isn't built for landing in the ocean. Hour 123 to fully power up the Lunar Module. This will raise the cabin temperature and computer. Hour 125 That's not good, but he has to grit his Soon after, he tells the other two guys what's Hour 132 too cold to get any sleep. He's very tired now and thirsty, but no He just hopes they will get home. Hour 138 This is when they see just how much damage time. All the men realize how lucky they are to Minutes later, Swigert thanks mission control. Many calculations had to be made in quick were able to thrust out of its way. This wasn't easy by any stretch. Hour 141 They've waited for this, knowing that if time and at the right angle, they might hit A mistake here could also mean a very fiery up like a meteor." Down below, the US navy is waiting to pick Hour 142 just in the US but all over the world. This has been some trip, a drama of the highest Talk about reinvigorating people's interest It's actually a good day for NASA in terms That is if the guys get back in one piece. The men land in the Pacific without any problems. The world cheers so hard that the thing nearly Mission control tells the guys, "Welcome What's more, even with a partly destroyed second most accurate in the Apollo program. Hour 143 on the line to Lovell. He asks, "Are you on the liner alone? Are the other fellas on, too?" "Yes, sir," says Lovell. Nixon says, "Getting elected as president was bigger." He tells them they will all get a medal of It's a good day for the astronauts and a Lovell apologizes for not completing the mission, something even better: They did something Even so, Lovell is more concerned about his That's what really matters. He'd figured that much out when he was hurtling Now you need to educate yourself a bit more Didn't Know." Or, have a look at...