My last upload was this video and you guys all I'm going to make basically the same thing again. wow! Okay I'm in first place [gasps] [laughs] practicing Paris Promenade. I've actually been been trying to get better at this game and I kind while, but I'm trying to get better now like for one of the tracks that I really practiced, so I like I don't know if you watched me from like much worse cuz I would just get passed by people all the mini turbos get everywhere, we have a I was creeping to Mario Kart Discord a little talking about how if I get one more weight stat the game, um for some reason five weight stat is I actually learned about this a long time ago but in the Discord for pointing this out. I don't know it a try. And I could either switch my character better, I like inkling boy and I don't like the oh okay I'm I'm going to go for item here I think water speed compared to uh one more traction one more water is better than traction, but it's this a try see if my weight stats a bit better. nice! Okay, person behind me has a mushroom. is tiny. Just take good lines, take good lines! to win that one. Boy I feel bad for Mexico here, noticed something recently when I'm trying to where I don't make a single mistake, and that is and commentating my races definitely makes it my best cuz I love talking while racing yes! Thank No! Yes! No! Okay well I had to pay attention to rough. Okay well there's mistake number one, and hit me, so if you ever are like oh just a whole maybe the bad luck was your own fault, because it had not made that very first mistake, and then because of one mistake. This is a very punishing common for one mistake to be the demise of your and it's very hard to come back depending on the was completely random. Hmm I threw my red shell we're seeing we're seeing the highs and lows of scared to get bumped on this track, but this is come in handy, cuz it's going to be some very thin everyone, and not have to worry about the weight jeez! I'm using all these coins I'm playing it have to deal with anything. There's a green Established a little first place here that's nice! and as soon as you're in the middle of the pack, a mushroom we're just going to drop that there. Oh can dodge that. Got him! Let's go okay we have cycling for blue shell protection. There not many items on this track than I thought what the heck? the blue shell, but I'm so so far ahead it doesn't good yep! Okay terrible line. So I got to save defense. Stop coming at me with this. Pleaseeee shells trail yes! I tried to get right in their me bite no you can't bite me I'm in a boost. The go go go! I never win on this track [laughs] I'm that was pretty good! It's seriously been a Let's see if I still [laughs] remember how to play little break drift there get a better line. And I'm going to lose! I shouldn't mushroom into first shell at some point. What? Oh the bump okay that but I guess I could have slowed down to give them lot, because they will hit the off-road. Okay out! See if someone backs out, nope they're not, Hitting them in the air, we're in first with a race? So I think I'm going to go for shortcut with will be really [laughs] good save me a little bit know [laughs] all right not bad not bad didn't bad now. Have a big lead, but I don't think it's shell I'm toast [Music] okay we're good I think I love this track! And I'll never stop loving since it first came out, and I really just like advanced techniques you can do, to to gain an definitely one of them there's a lot of tech on on your first attempt, but then uh once you learn so I wouldn't be shocked if a lot of very casual I totally get it. It's not fun to drive unless like uh Piranha Plant Cove, Squeaky Clean Sprint, I actually think that most people probably don't the more you like them, like both of those tracks, this game. And so, if you don't like those tracks, watch the world record a bit, and really give tracks. My favorite thing in Mario Kart, as much I really like, front running it's so fun to drive to stack with the blue shell so I just blocked that may have been a bad idea [Music] Wooh! Was third place dodging a bullet [laughs] this is so just a coin, maybe I should have slowed down but you never know, you can get a coin in second that a red shell? Yep! Toss one of them, that red get a mushroom. Okay okay first place getting blue third yes! Okay this is why you look backwards hit by a red shell, with how close the pack I feel like is one of those tracks, as of recent a front running track [laughs] if I can front Let's hopefully not run into that on the next that before me, I'm known for running into my and then it's like actually horrible spots, and oh nice nice! Lot of coins, there's a bullet too! That's so good no! It didn't get to the to drive up that blue shell, that would have been and then blue first place right at the end I yeah like I'm already in first place, that pretty okay let's not mess up this shortcut [Music] ooh a I can't really risk throwing this all way to get cycling for blue shell protection. Take simple shell protection um let's see if we can make it path oh! Everyone lost their mushrooms probably? losing to the Yoshi teddies [laughs] it doesn't just kidding! I'm not actually claiming Mr. Scooty let's get all these coins first, wooh! That was worried here I'm going to go left path, they might really scary in this room, I don't know they could and then backwards yep! The green shells went in take this path it's such a small path thank you! mini turbo this is some sloppy driving right an item I can just mushroom [Music] please! I always feel blessed just to get in the top half get mini turbos at the start they swerve and I That was so much air. Okay going backup strats. strat where we just back [laughs] oh very nice! are so good! I'm going to use star soon, just and hopefully I can hold this bullet all the way don't shock it what?! I got pushed whatever before it's really annoying but I should have get the bullet extension yes! Okay it still works been no shock all race please there don't have one a blue shell, ah it wasn't early enough I wasn't I was just hoping the blue shell would hit in a front running position. SUNSHINE AIRPORT! Okay in first, I need these coins. Trail you, you are Okay someone took the shortcut, give me these an orange mini turbo there, yeah, I charged this I haven't played Sunshine Airport with Mr. Scooty even happened I was like that bomb is landing protection, I have blue shell protection, this is I was expecting first place to get blue shelled in first, but now, I'm just in first because of time [Music] oh no! Blue shell though. I'm not Shell's coming too late so yeah I successfully turbo there. So that's good good to know. Oh! by the shock that was so lucky! I would have been I am not going to be in first place cuz they're come on come on game why is that a thing? So I going to chain their item right there, so I safely though very likely they were going to drop an yes! No no no no no okay I got hit in the glider to get me! What? That was brutal! I feel like I'm endings [laughs] that was crazy! Okay Music Park go let's go! [laughs] got the draft. Everyone's when I'm not one of the ones falling. Oh! Perfect! lot of short- I wasn't paying attention. I forgot at this track, there's a lot of shortcuts that I just terrible driving, this is exactly what I was like this. Let me go for coins. Okay you know okay okay lost my item [laughs] um as long as I them away nice! Oh barely got the double, super okay and then I got punished yeah can't be making wasn't coming yes! Okay that boo is so clutch, we dodge a shock here please! I'm going to use the slot. I can't believe that didn't blow up. Okay triple greens right in front of me. I'm going to for a while. Wait person in front of me is triple first place probably already got redded I'm going place just had six red shells behind [laughs] was it was sketch but it was okay! Come on come on you had six red shells thrown at you. I feel like a way to make a mistake somewhere on the track, so too great either, which is fine, which is fine, I that's that's kind of out of my control [laughs] A lot of coins already. Stolen instantly. Might really nice. Making our way back to the front. got to keep that in mind oh they they took their so lucky. And none of those can hit me cuz I'm too with the green shells. Get this trail out as soon if we get a blue shell here soon. Hit a coin here I'm going to get rid of your trail. I thought a bit slower. Okay, looks like there's no blue super horn on first place, but it might not have for them anyway [laughs] so this was perfect, I Road on mirror mode, they lowered mirror mode so um yeah, I have basically never played this, to be really good at this [laughs] cuz this is go you go to the left. What? How did I go that that before and probably never will again I don't again in my life, that's how rare mirror mode is a good sign [Music] whoa got the mushroom boost. stay Invincible, make sure my bullet can't get I don't want to risk getting shocked when I also the shortcut is not too important. I can chain it it's not too bad, I'm in fourth. First place has got it again wow! I can't believe I'm getting this something better here. Going wide don't want to no one here practices mirror mode, people must but- everyone has triple greens are you kidding happening? No one's going to throw any of it cuz need different items [laughs] I don't want go! Oh I'm still probably going to get hit, okay I this all worked out I hit two people. Can I make on mirror mode, I don't even always make it three funny! I just I just want to get first it's not I thought I was screwed after lap one and somehow bananas were [laughs] those were invisible but going for a Hail Mary here [Music] nooo! I can't I never do that online, that is like the crazy and you saw how fast I went. But here's what it's got it correctly. This is why you practice this it it's so cool. In my head sometimes I think of like I will mix them up because their names are is, functionally these two tracks are complete front running track and Riverside Park is one front running? I'm going to stop I've tried front really really bad, like every single time, and not that huge except for one of them. Oh wow! so small and slow. So I don't understand exactly like the more people that think it's a bagging like more shocks more blue shells. Oh you can't that one that was crazy! You can't get ground it ended, it actually didn't quite end yet. nice didn't get hit [Music] okay I was trying to messed it up. That was so close whoa! Wait! What the air you get to keep moving forward and because go! Holy! I've never seen that matter so much. from first place but if there's any combo that can high mini turbo and acceleration combo like this later part of this train. That might have been how low the invincibility is on this combo okay, just hitting one after the other but like not of them. Hopefully I got a mushroom here. Trail got destroyed so hard a lot of that was actually simply forgot how to play [laughs] Mario Kart to to come out of retirement for one of my favorite going backwards with me! This is my default the shortcuts on this track, and the only way bagging. Whoa! Almost got hit there. Um so I think already so far behind oh not too good [Music] I'm already in eighth people are bagging so I have no guarantee of the best items in eight uh-oh you're not taking good lines! Please don't I have to pass you you're so slow. There's another Okay I was just going to say very few people but I have a boo, and there's only one boo except for the shock. Where is First? Oh first is I don't have mushrooms for shortcuts later, till the grass shortcut, after the piranha plants. this. Okay come on come on! Nice! I saved it all whatever I have a boo this is fine [laughs] I love this track! [laughs] oh all the best races