(&quot;Toreador Song&quot;) - I absolutely love the house I live in, and that's no accident. It's taken me 10 years to get everything just the way I like it. Perfect wifi coverage, a server room with copper running everywhere I need it, VR base stations, And of course, my epic DIY that saved me like 20 grand. But then my kids asked, if they could have their own rooms, instead of all sharing one giant one. So, here I am in my new house that has absolutely no And this very '90s aesthetic. Let's talk about what and how you guys can because I am a little out of my depth. But first I need some help Are you having poor Use GlassWire to instantly see what apps are wasting your bandwidth and block them. Get 25% off today using offer code Linus at the link down below. (upbeat music) Okay, I lied to you a little bit before there is technology in the house. It's just that, Breaker, this is Big Eagle, the (laughs). This thing is hilarious. The issue is just that, what passes for cutting has changed a little bit in So, we've got a, whoa! Radio! Look at that. So, the first thing we're gonna change is to rip all of these off Actually, the first thing we ripping open a hole in the wall by removing this built-in speaker. A, to have a look at it and and it's something we can reuse. And B, because the box that is right on the other side of this wall. And we needed to use a fish stick to bring in fiber-optic internet. That's right, at least here anyway. The ISP will not come onsite and confirm fiber is until you have actually taken possession. So, that was one of the first because if I was going fiber to DOCSIS or ADSL, that would have been a And I really wanted to know I could do it. Fortunately, I can. It's already going down into the basement, so we can just pop this out. With that very important we're ready to move on. So, obviously for my wife, things like swapping out were very high priorities I do wanna do that, but the tech is where I'm Starting with things like this, built-in bookshelf slash media console that's here in the family room. Now, it's super nice. Really high-quality build, and my goodness, there's We've got four outlets in The only small problem for televisions that were and shape than modern ones. I mean, this is cool. Pull up your TV and angle it The intention is that when the kids have mom and dad will still have somewhere to sit and watch a movie So, we're gonna put a subwoofer in here with some kind of acoustically That'll also act as a passive intake. We're gonna have cooling fans, probably like four 140 And then, anything that requires or a PC, or whatever just rip out these drawers. What I wanna do, this is my perfect world. And hopefully the is just rip out all of these shelves and put probably a 77 inch TV in here. And then, so that we can hopefully, mostly reuse the structure. I'll just do some kind of wall mount that has an arm coming off of it. And then maybe some bias so that it doesn't look like for no apparent reason. One cool thing is that four wired up for in-ceiling So, I'm definitely gonna wanna reuse that. And I'm just gonna use that I do at my current house. Plug these in and then I'll of these to the upstairs. So that the kids can have and stuff like that. Then obviously another was a computer room slash That's gonna be here with the biggest one, probably being that we are directly That's where my server rack is gonna go. So, I think probably in we're gonna run a conduit, so that I can have a similar setup to what I have now with running between my and peripherals in the computer, which is in a separate And to keep temperatures so you don't have the computer in the summer when you're gaming or whatever the case may be. One kind of controversial and ornate as it is, I this built-in desk Not because it's not really high quality, but it's just really not us. Now, let's head down to the basement. We can have a look at That's actually where I think you guys are gonna be able to help me and talk about some of the cool tech that's gonna go down there. Oh, shoot! Aw! There's no stairs here yet. For whatever reason the not to put these stairs in. So, we're gonna have to Smartifying the built-in in this house is going So, heating is handled in That's super cool. And actually there's no reason from like an efficiency standpoint to have fine granular control over something like this on your smartphone. It's basically set a temperature with it and forget about it. The problem is that this heating system is the only thing that has thermostats positioned around the house. There are 10 zones for three on the main floor, each with their own thermostat, which would be great because I with smart thermostats, then I can get some dampers for the built-in AC, which is forced air. And then I could have communicate to both the except these are pretty They have only two wires running to them and they use an actual in order to turn them on and off. To my knowledge, there's that will run on two wires. One idea I had was taking So, these wires are the ones with their two conductors. And just putting a simple right on the wall here. And actually only and then doing all the via Z-Wave or Zigbee, and then having maybe Home Assistant tie the whole thing together. I'd have to get smart valves here's the last two. And I'd have to find a thermostat that is willing to run with just power and only smart communication with the AC and with the boiler. But if you guys have any suggestions, man, please leave a comment because I am, I mean, I love technology and everything, but home automation is and can be very overwhelming coming in with no experience whatsoever. We are probably going with a high efficiency boiler system. Not because the furnace isn't working and won't continue to work, but because it could actually So, this vent right here is from both the furnace and just kicks it out of Well, because we're gonna be putting solar panels on the roof, we actually need a nice, thick conduit going all the way from here up to the roof as part of that project. If we switched to a high we're only gonna need about which would free up the that we need for solar panels on the roof. So, in the longer term, I think that's gonna work The other thing it'll to run some kind of like because I think the server And I'm gonna want a couple of things. One is you can actually see the water pipe for the irrigation system over here, I'm gonna want to triple that. So, I'm gonna wanna have two more pipes running through the walls, So, that I can actually water cool some of the stuff in the server rack and then exchange the heat outside. That's right ladies and gentlemen, it's coming. Get subscribed. (rock music) Terrible. This is another room that I'm gonna want your guys' advice on. I mean, I know what I like and playing games, but what I don't know is for building a theater room, I'm gonna have conduit running along the bottom to a small stage here that is going to have like coming up through it if a friend brings over a you'll be able to plug in here. And then all of the AV equipment is gonna be over in the mechanical room, which is on the other side of this wall. I'm gonna have power on the wall in case we wanna wall mount the TV, power down there. Obviously, we're wanna run speaker wire for Dolby Atmos and all Since the, I mean it's so we have a perfect But guys, if there's any what to know before you I'm obviously more than open to it. From theater room, this and then there's gonna be a double door. And that will take us The idea here is that whether or whether it's our whole family, we can all sit and play a game together. And my kids really want me And right now, as crazy as it sounds, we don't have enough to all play together. So, they use mine and my wife's, and then the one that and in my kid's room. So, we're gonna do three desks along here, one, two, three. Two more along here and then I think we're and ethernet right here. This is gonna be kind like a half wall, kind of like that. And then if, you know, someone brought over we could have a total of all at the same time. I'd love to hear suggestions for cool, like if we should do and you're like cool, like like, I don't know. I want this to be kind But the main purpose one having everyone in kind of one place when they're using having the stairs come down right behind with all the screens visible so that I can see what's on the screens when I walked downstairs You know, parent things. All this house turns making me thirsty. I'm just gonna pop in If only I brought a water bottle. lttstore.com. And finally, this is where my We're gonna do yet another console. We'll probably put like And then there'll be weigh the crap out here. Weigh the crap out here because That's about as big as what for playing games like GORN. Having the couches and the TV is for a game called Takelings And then this wall is actually And we're gonna open this up. So, this is gonna be like a games table. We'll have games storage in And then this is gonna be which actually I think starts here. So, it's gonna be rotated 90 degrees. And, you know, that'll be where kids can get their snacks or whatever. So, it'll be right between the land center and the games table, and the VR space. Wireless access points. So, Rawkus generously on the best place to put them. I drafted some in, like to make sure I've got coverage when I'm working on a I want coverage outside. So, if we're on the patio I think one of them's Anyway, what's also in this hallway is the single control So, we've got humidity as And this is something that I've gotten very used with our mini splits. Being able to control the AC room by room, because A it's a comfort thing. Not everyone likes the and B, it's a huge efficiency thing. If the kids are away I can turn off the air close the door, and save a ton of money. So, I wanna figure out what we can do in terms of altering the to get room by room control. And then, I wanna replace these. There's a GE switch that, actually this was really generous. The Hook Up, you guys can He's helped me with some Test it out for me. It's got a motion sensor And apparently, they've report independently to Home Assistant, which is super cool because like presence detection. So, if nobody's in the basement, according to the motion sensors that are on all of my light switches, I could just turn off the AC. Another thing that's is installing electric car So, we wanna have a two we change the minivan out in the future. And that's gonna go in here. So, that big old thick cable, instead of running from my which is where it wasn't the old house. To the garage is gonna have to which is way over on the Fortunately, we've got for these electric cars already. See you later! Thanks to Megapro for They just announced their new which is designed specifically for people working with electronics, technology, security, It comes with 24 of the most all conveniently stored in the Megapro patented It's palm saver cap allows allowing you to seamlessly with a single hand. And it's got raised even further control and comfort, maximizing speed and Pre-orders are open now, and grab your precision screwdriver today. Oh God! I hit the stairs.