Botting has been around ever since the earliest lasting thorns in Jagex's side. Back then, botting and macros were simply way for players to increase their levels without That left them with more time to... play with Jagex has always taken a hard stance against ago, they've devoted a lot of time and effort bots and botting communities. But the bots have always fought back, and they find a new way to get around it. Some of these methods of evasion have been Well, I'll let Mod Mark explain this one. Back in Classic, one of the bots had something If I said anything, then a bot would automatically then the next line would be "Oh sorry, my I've got to go. I'll be back". And then I went into this one area and just all said exactly the same thing at the same While Jagex have always claimed that their they've also tried some unorthodox methods So the question is, how do Jagex make sure By making them report themselves, of course. Hello RuneScape, my name's Will Miss It, As a huge fan of the game, and an exceptionally at least, and I've never botted a single I am the kind of person who loves the part hand however, and this is much like that. 2010 to 2011 was an odd time for RuneScape. Dungeoneering had just been released, which if you prefer. The year before, the CEO at the time, Mark aspect to the game, to allow players to AFK resources. A good approach in theory, because fighting difficult; little did we know at the time, and they were coming for your Yew Trees specifically. RuneScape was definitely entering a new era, After 10 years of the game being public, it adopt what was working for other games, in Unfortunately, membership numbers were falling celebrity. Jagex couldn't afford to keep losing more. As a crucial time for the company, lots of It was around this time that plans for the down 90% of the bots in the game; 36% of RuneScape's The problem was, this would take down all afford to haemorrhage money on that scale They'd have to find some way to get that the Nuke. The return of the Wilderness and Free Trade hoping that overturning the controversial and new eyes. But until this influx actually happened, they from the thousands of paying bots. So they needed to find ways to punish the And so, the idea of Skill Resets was born. In the early days of November 2010, Jagex to player bots; that is, the accounts of regular skills up. Don't confuse these with dedicated bot accounts, are played solely by bots with the intent being banned. These player bots would receive rollbacks getting additional items and levels taken in the first place. In theory, this was meant to undo all the their account, and set their progress back started as an additional punishment. Jagex made sure to keep this new method a While it had been rolled out to the players, From the perspective of the player base, there players claiming they had been rolled back, On top of that, Jagex locked and hid all forum players panic even more. People were worried that there was a new bug knew what caused it. However, the Skill Resets were not perfect, A range of accounts would keep items they reset back from level 99, XP Counters with Adventurer's Log (which has since been rebranded account no longer had. Jagex had to double their efforts and make have all of these missed details set back But here's the kicker: to review the bots out a blanket statement. If you'd received a Rollback, then you should In other words, if you'd botted, then report And they did. Over the next few days, HUNDREDS of players a stat rollback. On top of this, videos sprung up on YouTube messed up, and that they were all victims Meanwhile, over in Jagex Headquarters, their of reports; almost all of them unwittingly properly for cheating. As hard as it is to believe, RuneScape does Players were actually quite concerned about devoted to their accounts could be undone A few of these concerned players were what No, not that one. I'm talking about a group of players that a direct line of contact with Jagex: Content Creators. Wait, no, sorry, that's the wrong script. Uh... Player Moderators. That's the one. For those unaware, there's a secret section The head of the P-Mods at the time, Mod Stevew, Resets weren't actually a bug; they were as an alternate form of punishment to botters, "hitting the botters where it hurts". Around this time, there were more Player Moderators history, with 6296 players wearing a Silver Stevew asked the P-mods to keep this information outside the P-mod community. Anyway, three days later, the information market websites. Although, despite the leaks, the Black Market themselves. Given most of them and their friends were of the common thread between them, it wasn't back. It was important, however, that they got the cheaters from identifying themselves to Jagex. They'd figured out what the purpose of the The Reset system stuck around in different in place had its flaws. But Jagex wasn't done trying out new ways In February 2011, Jagex introduced what they allowing hand-picked banned accounts that accounts back. Their skills would still be reset, but rather would be placed in negative credit in their debt had been paid. Jagex argued that it wasn't fair that membership the cheaters to pay for it instead. I'm not entirely sure how long this system the Bot Nuke; which, as mentioned earlier, game, and took down a large number of paying Just over half a year later, in April 2012, via the ability to buy Spins for the Squeal While likely the result of many factors, it's Nuke was a contributor towards this. So in a way, you could say that bots both Great going, guys. I had a friend myself back in late 2010 who rolled back. I remember I started to believe him due to But hey, who knows, I'm not the smartest Thank you so much for watching this brief Keep in mind that botting is still against If you didn't know that by now, I'd actually Anyway, my name is Will Miss It, and I hope I'll be back in just a week with another RuneScape's dark side, so make sure to subscribe I'll see you all then! Bye now!