Viral debrief. Coming up! Hey, 74 crew! Welcome back! If you don't know me, I'm a 747 pilot. My channel, 74 gear, In this video, we have but can't seem to climb. One that lands so hard it actually bends the airframe and another plane which is able to land on almost three It's pretty impressive. Let's get into it. I have no idea where but I am 100% in agreement I would honestly be feeling the screaming because they're flying, They're just continuing It seems like more it's actually the The altitude of the which is what's making it look but they should be climbing at There's two possible scenarios. One, you have a meaning it could be a very hot, a high altitude airport. Let's say Mexico city. This isn't Mexico city airport. But as an example, it's It can get very hot and humid. So if you have a high altitude the plane doesn't have the same lower altitude. So let's take Alaska, Anchorage It's very cold. The air is very thick and that allows On a hot, humid day on a high altitude, So that's one possible scenario. The other possible scenario is you or too much weight in the plane. Kind of like if you saw the American the drug cartel were trying They didn't really care. They're just like, take it all, take it all and then And he's like, no, I can't take So you have two guys in front You have me in and then you have someone So there's possibly four but the person that's recording is unwilling to look forward. They're just looking I hope this works out okay. Next I need to mention And they got so far away from the This is really To get the best performance and the best thing you can do generally You'll notice in most commercial before we make a bank we keep our wings level Now that's not always the we do that to get away we turn the left Because when we make that turn, we reduce the capabilities of because helping it turn However, you'll notice that and have slid all the way to That means they were at some level Now, for those of you that are oh man, so I live in It's a high altitude airport. It's a hot day. It's humid. Well, the engines on a commercial they're usually working We're not usually And there's a lot of times which is a high altitude. I don't know, 8,000 feet or so. It's a high altitude airport we don't always take So it's not always that it's a but on a smaller it's definitely a higher risk. I've taken off in a small plane and on takeoff and on climb out, the entire time the stall Meaning the air was so thin that It's not dangerous. You just have to know what you're But it's something That doesn't happen And there's a lot of performance that there's enough climb that it's still able and do an evasive maneuver to get All that stuff has been laid When you're flying a single engine a general aviation aircraft, Another thing I want you to and look at the direction So assuming there weren't from turning that direction, they could have turned that way and This may be one of those we're going to turn and we're going to Because by doing that, now you have the wind kind of and that's going to help because your engine is trying to make it fly. And it's not going If you were to it's like speeding up and And so by turning into the wind, you can continue your climb and get away from all So this guy is very close to I would be very uncomfortable. And so was the person in I would feel a lot like them. Let's see this next video. That landing was so hard but not probably in the Take a look at this video again. You see here, the plane hits so Which takes a really hard It's never ever good to you're going to have So that's something you But when you go through flight Have your landing so hard, you I've done it a lot of times. However, on a commercial I've had some I mean very firm. Glad that nobody videoed and I've never bounced So those landings, when you're going to bounce back up. It's never good. You really hit it hard to get these You see the plane bounces here. And then the same thing that happens And that's where it starts to The nose goes over and And that means the entire weight of the These planes are designed to take not on the nose. And before America's next top well, these planes should be Just realize that these people who are And so we get trained So for the amount of money that be able to take a nose landing while weighing this Now on a smaller aircraft, all the planes that Cessnas and those planes can I mean not ridiculous but the typical This that you see here, if that had happened on a small I've done literally So it doesn't really matter. But once you get out of a big a lot more momentum. And the plane is not set up to A contributing factor what caused or what was that the plane was And what can happen is when if you're in a gust and all of you lose all that air speed right It's very hard to know when you're it's very hard. So that 5 or 10 feet, if you end up, just kind of floating boom, that air speed goes away I know, I've done And I've flown, one of the aircraft A Jetstream 31, 32. It has very stout landing. So if you don't put it in So it's really easy And I was flying that So we get a lot of So there was times oh, okay, this is Nope, we're in a gust. And then bam! Slam it in. And that's what happens. And that's what happened The difference is is that you can get into trouble, which is what happened Another possible and didn't realize they and they pushed the nose onto the But in reality, they pushed the nose down And so it bent the aircraft. On a commercial aircraft, you want to get the nose onto And the reason for that is So you'll see on smaller and okay, cool. They're playing But on a larger you don't want to keep especially on a windy day because and your rudder are to keep you going So you're going to want but you want to fly it down. So it's kind of You don't want to slam it down because You don't want meaning you keep it up so and then it slams And then you just And that just takes experience. So by getting the mains on, you're going to get Now, maybe it's possible okay, our mains are down. Let's get the nose down. And they kind of pushed it I don't know. There was no real interview explaining what was going on. And when they talked about this. It's one airline I was at, they were talking about this and anyway, it's one of those I didn't see any report explaining but those are all possible scenarios So there was a lot You had gusty winds, you had a bounce slamming, And then you have someone with the intention to steer or because that was the way I don't really know. The thing to remember is that this is a profession where So you kind of because I'll see sometimes where you see something go like I would never do that. But the reality is is there's pilots that a lot more experienced than me. And they make mistakes. They miscalculate. They think crosswind and put down the wrong There's a lot of things that guys with heavy jets experiences So just realize you and be very humble because it's going to humble And then if you're running I'm the greatest pilot ever and then you do people are going So you want to be professional, be the best possible but also be humble and realize And that's part of it. That was actually very similar to except they almost got all three Impressive. First, you're going to notice Then it goes back up in the air. Then the right tire hits just You can see the smoke right before the This was very close to being a On a large aircraft, I talked about it a bunch, but keeping your wings level as As your aircraft gets smaller, it's less necessary because you between your engines So you can have a deeper bank Is not necessarily On a 747, maybe a triple seven. I don't know, maybe I'm not familiar with but you can't put a big your engines will slap into the However, on a you can put a bit of a bank if it's pushing you Watch what happens here though. The wind is actually You can see that And now it's possible they aren't properly lined up with the But they're actually And the pilot is making a last to hit the ground first. But there's another possibility. And that's the pilot was too soon and then smashed which actually bounced and put the right tire which is exactly You don't want to have a with the wind because now you're really So that's never You're always taught to keep keep that one down because you So it's possible as they they made that early okay, I'm going to just and bank it over. And what happened is it's And they actually just slammed Had the wheels gotten down, had the mains gotten down first until just a second before. Had they gotten those mains That would've worked. But they've putting it They got it down, bounce it up So that's what happened there. On a larger aircraft, these because you're going to lined up over the But you, because looks like you're on which is a bit strange the Because every time that and your whole life you've been having the idea of which is fine. When you're on a small plane, you can be all the way sideways and And that's the side picture When you have a plane that's and you have a strong crosswind, the main landing gear and you'll be looking down And the thing is is that and have your main landing gear over the center of the runway, as soon as you straighten out that you don't have to worry You can keep your wings level then you can put the It's a lot that's going on. So it's easy to mess it up. It's easy to anticipate. We've all anticipated something that And when you do that and it gets caught I've done it. A lot of It just takes practice and That's the reality. If you want to see some with their crosswind landings, and I kind of explain check out this video here. If you want to see somebody but talk like they Check out this video up here. I look forward to Until then, keep the blue side up.