The Nerevarine outpaces But there's a mod. The Hardcore Mode mod. And what this mod does is balance a bunch effects, and even hands out new spells behavior to make A big part of the mod is that it removes There's a lot of changes. I streamed a different uploaded the VODs and the creator of the mod watched things that needed fixing. Look at me. I'm part of the QA team. But this was after I already started mod yourself, you'll probably The first big change you'll Most notably, they all come with a 5-point a bit more accuracy Also, notice the skill bonuses. Every race has their own rather than just some I want to play this run as the fan-canon Along with the normal racial specials, normal weapons 10 extra points to and a better version that also comes with a Swift I've been enjoying playing Morrowind with what we'll be doing for I'm not taking Light Armor, but we might or two, because You probably know I imagine the Nerevarine would use Sunder Why the hell wouldn't he? That's why I'm taking Heavy Armor, Blunt Wraithguard, besides being necessary without dying, is just an all-around But we'll need a weapon in the meantime, so we'll take Spear as a Enchant is there, because enchanted Illusion, because... Yeah, there's changes to Acrobatics and Athletics, because And finally, Alteration. Initially, I thought having a Silly me didn't realize this mod Alteration won't be The birth signs are You really can't go They're all strong in It's fair to say, even if you probably won't regret it. I went with a Warrior, though. Pretty boring choice, 10 extra points to Strength and Quite the upgrade. There's a second mod that It's not perfect, and it doesn't really could get to the original. So let me explain some things. The Hardcore mod It was ported to OpenMW with the Morrowind Because of this, the merchant They couldn't be For some weird modding So there's a supplemental And this is supposed to make it So because we're using this even though we raised his you'll see that he's reluctant to buy My simple understanding of the No Pushover their mercantile levels changed So Arrille here has something Our mercantile is... 5. So, yeah. Since we won't be using Speechcraft have to get a bit more creative Why not sell your loot to Regrettably, their shops But why does gold matter It's not like I have any plans to What's so expensive that I need Repairs are cheap enough. And travel is... Yeah. Taxi services are a bit less Silt Strider captains realized Either pay the Looting everything Balmora is even more because we need every At first, I thought the no pushover If you don't take speechcraft or personality, getting decent deals with level 5 in But then I realized my mistake. If you didn't take shortblade, you You'd take a different approach. Instead of making a ton of one septim increase the dispositions of certain Ranking up in a guild disposition with all And doing quests for guild will raise their Enchanters buy just about so the mage's guild They've also got alchemy vendors We're going to want to get those anyway, so ranking up with I thought going to Suran and buying the smart, because I could But I couldn't afford the repair costs, and return to Seyda Neen. There's a few items around The run would actually All is right in the world. Less important is A little thing that fortifies intelligence Not as good as the hat, We just gotta kill this ghost Oh. Good, he's out. As you can see, enemies I think this is a boss ghost, so it makes Also, the spear is almost Those Suran vendors Shameful. But don't think that's It doesn't just Oh no. Early enemies may behave the but that won't be true for long. Ah, great. I wanted to show this off. The Dark Brotherhood They no longer wear endgame armor It looks a bit out of place, if Alright, so the trap on We'll come back to this after we Or maybe we won't. Maybe I'll forget. Not only do we want to help out Edwinna duties for Ajira. We can get her disposition maxed and then use her to dump any One of her quests will have us bring You can find it out in the world, Moonmoth, the fort We'll swing by his shop, and then head into the Dwemer I already talked to Caius He knows what I'm up to. Ooh, maybe taking Illusion Invisibility might Oh. Huh. I expected more. Projectiles and spells do travel faster been a bit tougher if I Sneaked up? Eh. He never got a And here's the Hell-Cube. Pain and pleasure, indivisible. Ajira's duties are simple. Bring her four kinds of mushrooms, outside of Seyda Neen. Play a prank on Galbedir by The quest makes Galbedir leave her post in all her shit while she's away. And plant the gem, I guess. When she tries to use it to enchant all frizzy, cover her face in soot, R-Rabbit season. Now Ajira wants some flowers, She's... not the brightest And then, we need to Being a cat, she probably I don't think she'll These few quests brought her disposition sales without feeling like Making friends with Ajira is more First, she's a sweetheart But also, this mod reduces the Quite significantly, too. So ingredients end up having if we can find a vendor That vendor? Little old Ajira. The last duty we'll be doing for Galbedir, taking revenge on Ajira that dastardly kitty-- stole the reports Ajira had been and flowers we brought her. But they're easy to find, they're Those duties earn us enough reputation which should raise our disposition including Galbedir. So if we sell Damn it! Oh, yeah, this mod also I don't know if it actually affects With an O. She must have a high mercantile level, but And we've still got so perhaps an even But to become a level 40 on one of the A cheap alteration training spell's all Why not pay for training? Well, training is a bit As did the mod creator. Not only is gold harder to come by, ten times more expensive. I can't afford it. Well, I think it seems time we do a Where is that narratively spurious clone? Greetings, my past self--or present self I have come from the future to warn you that you've been going through too many Instead, I've documented all of the cybernetic brain. I'm a cyborg. And I came back in time to tell you all What, so they don't have tailors in the Well, um... Not since the great... Swifty uprising of... 2059. Oh, yeah, right. Yeah. So let me tell you about the first Let me just see. Is it in my pockets here? Is it in? Oh, wait. War Thunder, the most comprehensive and it's available to play for free on PC There's over 2,500 planes, tanks, from 10 different nations From a 1920s biplane to an M1 Abrams. War Thunder isn't just incredibly detailed authentic sound effects, but gameplay is Every vehicle is intricately modeled. Engines, fuel tanks, weapons, crew. And on the target. The X-ray view is helpful for knowing or how they destroyed you. With over 70 million players, you may a new against players who've researched But what I like is that this doesn't If the best plane you have is a P-26 they're not going to pit you For a limited time, by using the link in that haven't played for at least six including 100,000 Silver Lions, vehicle decorator, Eagle of Valor. So is one of us going are you just going to Well, neither of us are clones, fade into nothingness when they realize Oh. And unfortunately, my time machine only We can't travel forward in t-- Well, we could travel forward in time, but we travel forward in So I just have to wait. I'll just hang out here. I'll go into standby mode and uh... tell you when the next Rather than sitting around in Balmora let's do more Mage's Guild duties while We'll bring Edwinna a copy of the potion from Skink-in-Tree's-Shade, like a hundred septims to and steal the Chimarvamidium We'll steal It's a skill book, so And it trains Alteration. The Chimarvamidium trains Heavy Now we gotta go to Huleen's Hut, where we'll get to show off Their speed stat's That's a common theme. A lot of enemies are way faster. It's kinda silly, because the so... They're stronger and they're harder I like it. Return the Chimarvamidium? No problem. By handing the book over to Sirilonwe into her chest, you get a She's not a true merchant, so it's not too So I guess technically she is a You can't barter with her. Maybe we'll swing by later Returning to Edwinna, we get the two infinite, instant teleports Super useful. One final cast of our training spell we've done enough duties, Ranis Athrys 200 Septims so we may Goddammit, Galbedir! What do I gotta do for Oh, I steal 100,000 Septims and all you've done Get over it. Looks like I'm taking Folms Mirel in the Caldera Mages Guild Conjurer to access the services. How convenient that Perhaps he'll be Now that's more like it. Great. We've got a couple Next we... Next we want to buy an Amulet For marking, we can just buy She sells Recall potions too, but I so having a limitless supply of Also, the Amulet of Mark is the Amulet of Recall And we'll buy a new This one has a weak Two points of damage Not amazing, but not terrible. Andrano Ancestral tomb time. We gotta get a skull. Normally, archer skeletons give me a arrows even harder to dodge. So what's this tomb Still rough, but nothing a Oh man, they put a greater Bonewalker This mod does increase the amount of six times rather than five times, but strength damaged by this guy. Two skulls. Yeah, the mod also changes some overworld quirky. This is one of the bugs the I believe it's fixed now. This dagger could be useful. Damage endurance, and strength. And the Unarmored We'll read it and sell it later. Sharn's got a brand new skull, and there's She's not a necromancer. How could she be? Skulls don't even Caius wants more info about the all that jazz, so he sends Huleeya is a monster and obliterates the him to Jobasha's bookshop, we raid books just lying around. How could someone just leave Are they stupid? Mehra Milo so kindly gives us information thanks, we steal a bunch of copies bookshelf right here. Why do they need so many? What is this, a library? Finally, Addhirranir. Taunting enemies into attacking doesn't really At least, it's a lot So we have to do the Talk to Addhirranir, tell then return to the Khajiit Since we're down here, there's a They probably but in Morrowind, level It's a strong suggestion. She's fast and heavily armored, but the Dagger of Judgment See, damage attribute effects are attribute via potion, spell, With zero strength, The damage strength Well, I guess they They can't walk, but However, I've got a She's actually guarding a shrine to and there are some even I recall their loot being pretty good, have changed it all too much. One of the NPCs has two sanguine Shortblade, but Dwarven Shortsword on this one, even if I don't use And I'd definitely like to get my It's a Daedric longsword, I'm He's really strong. Lots of health, high level gear, a shock shield that damages I don't know if this is feasible, slowly, I get his attention without He has two sanguine items, one that longblade. Damn, could have Ah well, I'll take 'em And we got another Yeah, not worth killing him. Let's... let's get Just to get back Caius wants us to go to Ald-ruhn and Hassour Zainsubani. But I'd rather sell all and then head to the Dunmer Why? I'm sick of this Silver spear, and I want something with a bit more less shitty. Berandas is oddly barren. These strongholds usually have some squatting in the ruins, or There's also a couple strongholds filled A Dremora... This mod makes significant First of all, they're beefier. They're meant to You know, soldiers who've torn free from will of their Prince. Elite warriors from Worlds unthinkable. Incomprehensible, these Dremora. Putting them down with a few They also use bound This not only means their attacks are longer guaranteed And frankly, it's kind find them with Dwemer To make killing them more rewarding, ingredients, and Also, they do have a very slight It's just not guaranteed. This one dropped a diamond. As we venture deeper into the bowels of we enter a room with a skeleton pinned to smell was indeed him. His cause of death is a mystery. A mystery that must adventurer who traveled For in their anger, they seem to have spaces between the So incensed in his ignorance. But that anger Oh my god, look at *Laughing* The animations really weren't Whoa, that's new. They have a blind spell now. Alright, Daedra are I guess they shouldn't be. The winged twilights Perhaps this was the angry On his feet are the They grant 30 to 40 points but we're an Argonian If we need gold, maybe we can Things are shaping up well. We meet with Hassour Zainsubani, information, return to Caius fight off the Dark Brotherhood like the sick, sick freak he is and then prepare for But I had yet I've got Alteration Jump is an Alteration How far could a 100-point Sirilonwe sells both Tinur's Hoptoad and But if we make a 100-point and a 1-point Slowfall we may be able to launch I'll also make a You gotta take advantage of the Alright, let's test Ah man, I love Morrowind. Shit, I made a touch-- I made Slowfall on touch. Remade the spells. Let's try that again. Tarhiel could learn a thing or two And dead. High-speed levitation is probably the just so much more fun. Do you guys remember Zooming around on those maps was such shooter from 2012 *sigh* Shazbot. Anyway. We're off to the Urshilaku Burial Caverns from the Wraith of Sul-Senipul, because Ashlanders, wants us to prove ourselves to the Nerevarine prophecies Even Inlanders are Outlanders to the And that kind of sucks, because I feel video with that, and I don't I-I-I don't know where These skellies are no match for my Now, I know what Why didn't I get the and just use the Bound And it's an excellent question. The answer is obvious. I'll leave that as an Sul-Matuul's son's The ceremonial offering I must hand is a burden felt deep And lo, I must consent to this tribute, 200 dollahs. Yeah, initiation right. Got the bow. Already got the bow. Talked to Nibani Maesa. Learned some stuff. Returned to Caius to get Who do we gotta kill next? Dagoth Gares and the Caverns Normally a rather trivial dungeon, but Ooh. Okay, so dreamers A Bonewalker would feel more thematic, but I guess I should be Heh, that's a real fine creeper Only scamps. I don't know how much magicka he so our best bet is to ignore the scamps Once he dies, the Ash slaves appear to be unchanged, but that's the And they don't really need to be changed, hardest enemy to fight in this I don't know why Ash They're the enemies They're not as cute when Nyeh. Dreamer: &quot;Ow.&quot; &quot;Son of a bi...&quot; Finally made it to Navigating Ilunibi is tough when you've Uh, um, excuse me? What the f- I can't God da- Scamp army Okay, new plan. Lure the enemies out gradually. Oh, there was a Didn't even notice. Two skeletons, actually. Three skeletons. What's happening? And a ghoul. And a slave. What is this conveyor What is going on? Three and a half skulls, and Okay, they're dead. Now we can lure Dagoth Gares out, Hopefully without scamps. That Bonewalker Gares might not resummon him. The Bone Lord So at first I thought this was an The Noodle Snoots run away So I have to chase after him. And he's probably &quot;Why don't enemies &quot;Why do they chase me and But this is actually They're not supposed to do that. I had only seen Noodle Snoots behave &quot;I'm a leader and not I think this might be one of the We've contracted Super Gonorrhea. But this one makes you We won't, though. We're headed straight to Don't want to forget the A pair of gauntlets that fortify Uh, and the glass boots. To sell. Quickly. Shit. Uhh- Recall. Oof. To Tel Fyr. It may seem reckless, but That still a relevant joke? Alaska Airlines and the That joke's not gonna age well. I don't give a shit. We do Divayth Fyr a solid and grab And he gives us a potion that That's how you My gonorrhea is invisible. Let's speed through this next part We return to Caius, lesion-free, Mehra Milo because he's Meru's been arrested, Baar Dau, the floating and bring her Divine Intervention Scrolls, She tells us to where we can get more information Oh, wasn't that neat? We haul Gilvas Barelo's books back to Sul-Matuul to learn about But Sul-Matuul's a tool and wants us to he tells us anything else. So that's our next stop, fighting Oh boy, that could be a problem. Nothing says we We just need the Dagoth It's not cowardly to run from a I wonder what the Geez. Hmm. Either the mod removes or the only on-target spell Argonians are immune to to use an Absorb Whatever the reason, Getting to the sewers We could either kill all the Ash Slaves or just dodge and weave But here, we've got a pair of Fire How will we handle this? I can't really dodge their fireballs, Perhaps you forgot that Nerevar but he's also quite Like the Noble Chameleon, he blends and bypassing the many Chameleons don't actually change but Argonian, Octopuses can do that. So if the squid faces cast invisibility, Although I don't think squid can change and cuttlefish can. Octopuses can pretty Let's just say Cephalopod. We call squid faces squid faces not faces, but because they have tentacles, tongue as good as squid face. Daedric gauntlets. Gonna sell them. Oh dammit, I haven't been I'm such a silly little dumbass. And we're outta here. Sul-Matuul doesn't he just wanted us to get The third trial will have us going to the side of Vvardenfell. &quot;.ravereN&quot;: aruzA I usually don't take anything but we're gonna grab the Could be useful; a little bit of I hope the stains And before we forget, Urshilaku and be named He couldn't have preemptively Tradition? On to the Nerevarine and Normally you can easily raise the Zainab but that's not really an Instead, we need to bring him a pair of on our first task, killing We need to buy a set of exquisite clothes him anyway, so it's not As usual, Calvario is in behind a Greater Bonewalker, Not too difficult. Calvario, on the other hand, so fast that into the other room. He's also got a ton of health, and heals him to So we need to dodge his creepy At that point, he starts throwing hands It's always a struggle when Do you keep your fatigue topped potentially wasting resources? Or do you wait until you get punched that point so you There. That took a minute. Escorting Felura to the It's all over land. It's not like we gotta worry The hardest part is getting Zainab Nerevarine. The Erabenimsun are up next. Their wise woman wants us to Wants us to mediate a dispute These were productive talks. Erabenimsun Nerevarine. I hate the Ahemmusa Ashlanders. Escorting Sinnammu sucks. But this mod changes She doesn't have waterwalking by default, the creator mentioned, and it But during this run, she But it's not a problem, because So I made a waterwalking on and a waterwalking myself. It's nice not having to deal with fish and running off into the sunset. We do have to take a long route around walking up certain slopes. Eh, let's kill these Ahemmusa Nerevarine. The Hortator stuff will require way Redoran and Hlaalu is but Telvanni is gonna We can't really bribe the councilors, I minor, but even if I weren't opposed rate would be so high that I doubt I'd So how do we secure their votes? Ah, well, the Telvanni See, there are five councilors, You just need the votes Councilors stop being Neloth is first. Now, when we attack him, all the nearby but if we're quick enough, we might be our advantage. And there he goes. Timing the attacks should keep him he can't cast any spells. But we got potions just in case. And because the... uh... Because the Telvanni are a bunch of killing all these guys. If they wanted to live, they shouldn't Next, Therana. She's a bit unhinged, so I had to use a bit of cheese Which, now that I think Madness. Sheogorath. Cheese! lol so random Every time I ran out of the her aggression would reset. And attacking her would It was weird. I'm gonna assume it's thematic Maybe it's got to do with that one wearing her skirt. Bethesda probably didn't want a quest Perhaps she's coded to reset to She healed a lot, Killing Therana added to my She's an odd one, that Therana. I can't afford to pay the I had bought a bunch of Telvanni bug musks thinking it would help raise the help at all, and 40 days in lockup. Eh, could be worse. Dratha has a bunch of elven helpers around problem than Dratha herself, especially I did start using It was a reward from Sul-Matuul It fortifies our agility by 10 and both for 60 seconds. Not a huge buff, but it comes in handy This shock mirror robe. Resist shock 20% Both constant effects. Yeah, some items were changed It's a good thing it's the same style because if it weren't, I don't Wouldn't feel right. Final target, Gothren. He's usually the only We'll start with his We don't need them interfering. Oh, I just assumed Seems he wanted to help the other two, but he Larry-Moe-and-Curly'd himself I guess no amount of mods will Well, it's the Telvanni's fault for We already had Aryon's support, all the Telvanni council, Redoran is next. Save Athyn's son, talk to the other challenge Bolvyn Venim to a We'll kill him while we I had sold the loot I liberated from the Crassius Curio his 1k Dram Bero is hiding, but Ondusi's By telling Orvas Dren that we want to aggressive, preventing the other It's probably just a quirk of how NPC but part of the fun of a is creating excuses for game mechanics so they mesh with the lore. Because Orvas Dren is the aggressor, his To help Dren would be a tacit admission that he himself initiated. Dunmer culture, at least Dren FA'd... so he FO'd. With him dead, the two Hlaalu councilors in out as well, so Before locking in our Hlaalu give Bolvyn Venim a poke, and return He probably wants us to Or at least a peck. On the cheek. On his face. Last thing to do is to check in on Athyn and officially become Redoran Hortator. Having fulfilled the first five parts of writing on the wall and so that we may plan an bringing the fight He gives us Wraithguard, a gauntlet that without suffering mortal wounds. It also comes with a 10% resistance to all magic and elemental 10 points of shield, and 20% reflect. That reflect, I suspect, will We got some Ash First Citadel, Odrosal, You may think Vampire Citadels And you'd be right, Golden Saints ain't easy. They heal. A lot. I think most Daedra have an inherent heal restoration spell that doesn't seem to because they keep They drop a decent bit of You know, I could just unhinge this fighting Dagoth Odros at all. Dagoth Ur tasked Odros with protecting much as put it I may not agree with In fact, we likely have I may be grateful that his underlings but negligence? Dereliction of duty? Inexcusable. Okay, so that's Aah! It's goofy, but it's He's like a fly Vemynal is next. After stocking up on some What's behind this door? Yeah, I'll just *startled gasp* Oh my god. My heart just skipped a beat. How long was that behind me? Oh, whoa. Oh. Somehow jump scares are Vemyn's a speedy little guy, but And with an unarmored skill at physical attacks aren't an Vemyn drops Sunder, which and 20 points of strength, at the minor cost of draining With Sunder equipped, we So even if all of our skills even if we had zero fatigue, we'd before factoring in the enemy's dodge The attack modifier is Pretty good. Dagoth Ur: &quot;Come, Nerevar. Friend &quot;Come and look upon &quot;And bring Wraithguard... Sunder is such an Wanna know something absurd? It was during this run, during this fight, enemy when they're knocked over. Dunno why I never noticed. When I checked UESP, sure When an enemy is they take more damage Another reason why heavy I hate to say it, but the fight against He had more health, It would've been pretty interesting Maybe a couple slaves, a I do wish the final dungeon Imagine if the heart of and the whole goal was you don't know what the dungeon And it turns out, the further the more and more flesh-like it becomes... because you're actually fighting through trying to get to And when you get to the chest It's Lorkhan's heart. I assume Lorkhan, whose body I don't know why his I mean, it's a pretty big heart But it's pretty small Bethesda never really Although I guess my idea doesn't A big theme in this game Dagoth Ur is a horrific monster, hell-bent on blessing the Everything you learn about him, is Lovecraftian and But when you meet him, he's Meeting him--talking And that's all she wrote. Shall we come full circle? We began with a We shall end with This was fun. Not obnoxiously difficult, Certainly better than just There's also way more to this There's apparently some mega-bosses hidden It could be fun to do everything Maybe I'll stream it. Thanks again to War Thunder for sponsoring A reminder that for a limited time by new and returning players that haven't massive bonus pack including 100,000 and the exclusive vehicle decorator,