As Putin paces in his office, he is nervous. projected strength on his state-controlled media he has tried to take over Ukraine with no luck. country to decapitate the democratically elected puppet. After launching his so-called &quot;special Kyiv in three days, he has been fighting a war give in despite being outnumbered and outgunned. losing more than 10,000 pieces of equipment and not any closer to declaring victory than when setbacks on the battlefield, Putin has turned to Recruiting convicted murderers, raising mercenary civilian targets, deporting masses of civilians harden Ukrainians' resolve to win the war. And as so too has the US and NATO done their part to help US alone has contributed over 175 billion dollars that being direct military aid in the form of all air requirements. NATO countries have also given economic aid and 40 billion in direct military flowing into Ukraine, Russian formations have army being able to force itself several orders And that is where Putin has a problem. Putin has into Ukraine and has threatened several so-called response from him. Chief among these red lines Though the F-16 airframe is several decades old, 2000s brought these tried and true fighter jets airframes, new radars, computers, weapons, and with some of Russia's best aircraft, like the Putin. Though Ukraine's air force remains viable due to its small size, older planes, less advanced the Ukrainian air force's sortie generation ability to launch aircraft each day. However, that Western backers have provided, the Ukrainian over Ukraine through a combination of short-, recent developments may finally tip the balance show that Belgium just pledged to donate 30 of F-35 strike fighters. This pledge has now pushed to 85. Though these planes may not arrive in to retrofitting and pilot training, this number of air superiority along a sector of the front. a specific direction, like Kherson for example, Russian advances sector by sector until pushed to the international border itself. Such a and he would certainly choose a drastic course Russian forces on the battlefield. Another reason escalate the war is because of Ukrainian attacks Ukraine has attacked Russia numerous times inside Russia and resulted in some hilarious multi-million dollar airplanes to prevent their have ramped up to affect Putin's bottom line: his a giant gas station that supplies huge quantities as Putin's main way of obtaining foreign cash to Ukraine has been attacking Putin's oil industry drone attacks against oil refineries across from Ukraine. These attacks have crippled up to and forced Putin to announce a six-month freeze Despite America's urging to stop attacking inside As Putin's military struggles to shoot down these him since he has already stated that companies systems since the Russian military cannot afford or they get worse and worse, this, too, might be him and he is seen as weak. Whether caused by a seat of power threatened at home, Putin would of reinstating a modern USSR. But what would a watch the war in Ukraine unfold, Putin continues has been saying these things for years, Western they assume he could not be so foolish as to while still trying to conquer Ukraine. But that is preoccupation with Ukraine, Putin has been able to This is not uncommon for him, for since the war Combined Arms Armies it has sent to Ukraine from private military companies, and prisoners. Belarus and northern Russia for rest and refit Russia has built up strategic-level reserves that target ethnic minorities, economically which brings in nearly 30,000 personnel each casualties per day on the Russian military. Still, Putin has steadily built up his current army soldiers due to around 300,000 to 400,000 Russians the target set by the former Russian Minister four hundred thousand troops, just over the size Putin intends to deploy them in a surprise for Ukraine. But where would Putin strike? Though of realism in his body. Expecting the Russian invade the entirety of NATO is simply an absurd would advise him against. Instead, he intends a meant to fracture the NATO alliance and gain some most likely candidate for this strike would be the and Lithuania are the most exposed countries in After gaining independence after World War One, 1940. After decades of communist rule, they were independence and among the first to join NATO Soviet rule, there are significant populations people within these countries. Touting the same Putin would likely telegraph in the media that eradicate these ethnic Russian people. As Putin trying to disrupt European governments like slip quietly into position in Belarus and the would Putin's strategic plan be? Though it is hard it is likely that Putin would want to use countries before the US and NATO had a chance need to cut off access to the Baltics through a Suwalki gap is the unofficial name of a roughly Kaliningrad exclave on the Baltic coast across and stops at Belarus. This sparsely populated NATO alliance. Control of this area means that the the line here for Putin would mean that he could time, he consolidates control over the Baltics and about Ukraine. But how would that invasion play the first Russian troops to enter the Baltics and are actually Putin's little green men. Earning in 2014 due to wearing green army uniforms with no the advance guard of Putin's army meant to seize buildings, radio stations, and military barracks of moving in regular army vehicles, the little trucks, SUVs and other commercial vehicles to try is to seize their objectives through surprise and themselves as they cross the international border. hour of the invasion is an extensive network of have developed over the years. Because of the former Communists in the Baltics and other police services routinely make contact with these rallies, bars, concerts, and other traditional with disenfranchised locals who are sympathetic on-the-ground intelligence when the invasion kicks spot targets for Russian aircraft, and relay the little green men encounter their first NATO going on here. Though there is frequent movement of Baltic and NATO forces stationed there, US personal vehicles. But before they realize what overwhelm border checkpoints across the Baltics. vital objectives within several kilometers to conventional Russian formations to begin on the Russian side of the border under the Russian armored and mechanized units begin Their objective is similar to trying to take from Russian territory, the Russian high command Kyiv by driving straight towards the capital 200 kilometers from the Russian border. is only about 40 kilometers from the Belorussian Putin's generals hope to arrive in Vilnius by day three. As Putin's armored columns begin to resistance for the first hour. However, after resistance becomes more organized and coordinated hope to fight and win against the Russians all time for US and NATO reinforcements to come roll Russia and Belarus. But NATO ground troops aren't of Russia's invasion. Putin knows that to win this Suwalki gap within a week. Anything longer than a mobilization of NATO countries but also the threat Atlantic. But crossing the Atlantic will take a days of mobilizing and loading American ships to target bases where NATO's Rapid Response Force Force is the premier organization within NATO hours or days, depending on the need. This force combine troops from across every NATO country into for several months without needing reinforcements about 50,000 NATO Rapid Response forces were Slovakia, Romania, and Bulgaria. About 30,000 of bulk of the Rapid Response Force is stationed of May 2024 and the rest are stationed throughout air assets, and supply bases stationed in Germany. and Poland that Russia wants to knock out before Russia intends to eliminate these groupings Though the fog of war prevents accurate data from of the world's largest inventories of conventional all varieties, the missile threat posed by Russia not be underestimated. In fact, despite sanctions, its conventional short-, medium-, and long-range and Germany, Russia would conduct a multi-tiered longer-range targets up to 2,500 kilometers Russia would launch a barrage of Kh-55, Kh-101, exclave, Belarus, and Russian ships in the Baltic base at Poznan, Putin could use the hypersonic kilometers in addition to medium-range ballistic like the S-300 or S-400. In addition to launch hundreds of Shahed-136 drones. The Shahed are one way attack drones meant to blow up targets Russia has bought thousands of these drones from Russia to build thousands more to meet Russian extensive range, around 2,500 kilometers, the targets with long-range ballistic missiles. Due to to include Shahed drones as a sort of diversion purpose of using a bunch of Shahed drones would be time and ammunition shooting these down while But much to Putin's surprise, his barrage of little effect on NATO defenses. This is due to NATO has spent decades building across Europe. in place is the most sophisticated in the world. NATO country has at least three ground-based radar These radar sites all operate at various ranges, threats flying in at any level and any profile. the NATO alliance has something Russia does Known as the E-3 Sentry, these Airborne or AWACS (pronounced A-WHACKS) for short, These Boeing aircraft have a massive radar dome to 400 kilometers away. With just three of these of Central Europe. With 14 total AWACS in service, any American Carrier Strike Group nearby, the away. As the AWACS and ground-based radar stations Hungary, Slovakia, and others pick up Russian with battle management coordinators in Germany. real time through secure data links, NATO forces As NATO short-, medium-, and long-range anti-air F-15s, F-22s, and F-35s, along with other allied Europe to intercept these threats. While the ballistic missile threats, the aircraft will take result is not good for Russia. Just like with what even this advanced, multi-threat attack was almost of drones and missiles fired by Russia make it is because Russian precision munitions is more of shown that Russian precision weapons are more vary due to the fog of war, some show that Russian three-quarters of a mile off. On average, such all Russian missiles. With such a high margin of it through NATO's air defense network cause little major bases like Rammstein, Stuttgart, and Poznan first wave of Russian missile attacks failed, air patrol stations throughout Poland and the reinforcements arrived. As allied pilots arrive, Though scanning for some of Russia's best fighter allied aircraft instead establish communications for garrisons surrounded by Russian troops. intensity of Ukrainian air defense systems, the to enter frontline combat. So, what do they do? stations or conducting strategic strikes deep instead hangs back behind the front lines and fray. Why they do so is for several reasons. defense systems are, without a doubt, the best point defense systems to Patriot, IRIS-T, and heavy losses to these systems and cannot afford sortie rate in Ukraine has put excessive hours on of flying less hours. In addition, Russian pilots counterparts due to serving as missile lobbers training to fight like Western pilots. Instead, the skies are void of Russian aircraft but Because Putin wants to preserve his air force, air defense systems. While some allied aircraft the depth and strength of enemy air defenses, Belarus that fire with impunity, start wreaking commanders ask to fire on these SAM sites in orders them to stand down for now. At this moment, borders of NATO countries and not fire into in Brussels calls an emergency meeting with each During this conference call, President agreed that US and NATO forces should not fire like the heads of state for Estonia, Latvia, and be limited to the confines of NATO territory and victory of somehow saying NATO had attacked Instead, the Supreme Headquarters decided to send for its fighters so that they could attack Russian the flagship of the Standing NATO Maritime Group to get there will take just over two days until start detecting missiles and shooting them down. emissions control conditions set by this surface unable to get an accurate fire control solution submarines to take out any allied warships making commander of a Yasen-class submarine as she picked Yasen-class submarine is one of the most advanced heavy armaments of torpedoes and cruise missiles for any ship to pick up on her. As the lead ship fires a spread of torpedoes. The Sailors on board before several torpedoes close in on her wake the Russian submarine rejoice in their first kill hunted ones. The other ships in company pick up on close in. A circling P-8 Poseidon aircraft, along dipping sonar, begin prosecuting her position. destroyer has a positive firing control solution Before she knows it, three torpedoes come at her, to avoid them. However, it is too late. On board hear the sound of four underwater explosions. remains float to the surface. The American Navy ships of SNMGM (pronounced SNIG-UM) One resume on the ground is becoming grave in the Baltics. of its objectives. On the ground, NATO troops one. The Russian armored columns began advancing through the initial border areas. However, due to to form hunter-killer teams to take out Russian other personal anti-tank weapons. As NATO troops it appears they have the upper hand. As Russian rear, they stop and dismount their infantry to When they do so, the columns become vulnerable guided artillery shells, HIMARS rockets, and observers call in these fire missions on exposed they see and hear rounds coming in. However, what of GPS-guided munitions falls in close to the these rounds fly wildly off course. While some of the bulk of the Russian columns remained Ukraine has demonstrated, the Russian military has some of its mistakes. One of these most critical its units from precision-guided munitions. As a few years, Russia has actually heavily invested capable of defeating some Western weapons. Reports the effectiveness of Western-precision guided jamming. Because of this, Putin has mandated that shielded with GPS jammers to render these Western that electronic warfare has other spectrums, too. that the US and their NATO allies soon exploit. the Russian military is practically incapable emissions control techniques to mask their plans. of recorded phone calls by Russian soldiers on sensitive military operations. In addition to clear on radio frequencies that are unencrypted. there is also evidence of Ukrainian civilians them. While these make for some good internet has real world consequences. Russian troops in the have beaten back Allied planes for now, NATO are since they do not even attempt to hide their US and NATO troops conduct numerous fire missions artillery, and mortars to at least delay, if not now, troops in the Baltics know help is on the way Force. Hour Eight. Since the Russian invasion Baltics have successfully prevented the Russians range of Russia's artillery, rockets, and other Latvia remain free from attack since the fighting border--or at least NATO thought. Throughout the their way through a hail of NATO air defenses to at airports just outside all three capitals. On large numbers of helicopters from short-range Streak. However, enough helicopters have made it these airborne operations is simple. The Russians in a sharp, quick action. Once done, they will larger numbers of paratroopers and conventional so that the Russians can now attack from two Because this is the same tactic Russia tried in anticipated this move and have been preparing to a few helicopters manage to land at each airport. wiped out by infantry stationed at the airport. more hours, but the immediate danger is now over. the bulk of the 100,000 NATO troops have received Suwalki gap. Russia, for its part, conducted a Belarus to shock the defenders there and rapidly could arrive. Stationed in the gap are about hundreds of tanks, armored fighting vehicles, and during the initial bombardment, this area bore medium-range missiles from multiple angles. As a high casualties in the first hours that have the situation worse is the fact that Russian of steel that has been difficult for Allied air here are largely on their own and face the largest they attempt to stem the tide of the invasion. to the terrain, the area is heavily forested and Russians are forced to use the few roads there are targets for indirect fire and anti-tank teams. But rapidly advance due to overwhelming numerical have a decision to make. With the Navy still cover to protect allied planes from attack. And half a day away, drawing equipment from Poznan, action is to wait and stay where they are. Though no other option. Back in Brussels, the US and NATO about what to do next. It is agreed upon that, as the Baltics will not be abandoned to be retaken at area for as long as possible until reinforcements meantime, NATO countries agreed to mobilize 25% a unified American command. With such a decision, aircraft, over 3,000 tanks, and 687 ships, among will begin an immediate counteroffensive while the to provide a strategic reserve and much-needed action, President Biden informs Congress that NATO Treaty and that the country is now in a state officially vote on the matter. In an unusual sign Russia and states that the war will end only when being declared, the President has numerous powers is requisitioning the 181 ships of the US Merchant Sealift Command. Also in his power is the ability use. Overnight, FedEx, UPS, and the Postal Service ferry the invasion force to Europe. But the defend once they get there? Day One. In the first Russian military made some decent progress. It is the city is experiencing intense indirect fire and gains have been greater since the NATO force of size of West Germany. As a result, the furthest kilometers. But there is just one problem. Because than it did, Russian commanders had not stocked had anticipated on capturing NATO stocks. With forces, not enough fuel and ammunition had been exposed from their railheads in northwest Russia trips to the front lines to deliver supplies. And them. Due to having just two serviceable airborne A-50, Russian commanders are blind to most of what allied units are frequently able to fix Russian while larger formations are able to flank around Because of these frequent ambushes, senior Russian the frontlines to figure out what is going on. Due easy targets for allied gunners or aircraft. to advance since they are doing their best to conscripts and prisoners to fight positional contractors form the spearhead to push towards advance in Lithuania, the troops in Suwalki gap Fortunately, help is on the way soon. Day Two. beeline for Poland, the group has been continually Thankfully, though, none of the missiles fired at has been. But what scares US commanders is as they a gauntlet of missile fire. But thankfully, the presence of a US aircraft carrier, the carrier airborne early warning aircraft, and electronic known as the F/A-18 Growler, are equipped with which are radar-seeking munitions used to target As the cruisers and destroyers of the NATO strike close in on Kaliningrad with one mission: clear As the Growlers near the exclave, Russian fighter F-35s and F-22s join the Navy F-18s to establish Russian aircraft, the Growlers close in for the in on radar sites all across the exclave, making lanes now clear, the whole might of American available type of aircraft begins dropping bombs the Russians suffer greatly on this day. By defense missile sites had been destroyed, their and the surviving Russians holed up in underground would not come, thanks to the Navy. With the sea the US Navy and its allies close in closer to ineffective, Russian air defense sites still and Belarus. Because of this, if allied planes the Navy will need to provide mobile air defense good for NATO. Russian forces have advanced more now fighting in the suburbs of Vilnius. In the to defend against a multi-axis attack. However, fresh units are brought in from Belarus. past Vilnius and banked hard to the south Russia is doing its best to force them out with does not like to engage in dogfights, they mostly they have done this in recent years is through are thermobaric munitions that create massive turn everything into cinders. With these nasty dismantles NATO hard points and allows Russian yet. This is because the advanced units of the with the enemy. During their forced road march, with Russian forces as they made their way to the become encircled themselves and instead slow the if Russian troops will invade Poland from another The slow movement of the relief force could spell just 20 kilometers left on either side of them grows each day. That is until the Navy arrives. SNGM One has finally closed with Poland and the support for allied planes. With more than three the Navy has done great work shooting down troop concentrations. However, this is not two hundred Tomahawk missiles between them, the support the counteroffensive. Russian command and troop concentrations, and ammunition depots all with the inability to reload missiles at sea, Navy a rich environment. And though the Navy may have had anything prize in store for them. While the and throughout the first few days of the war, they swarm attack never before seen in naval warfare. off shore, the purpose is not necessarily to sink ammunition to force them to pull back from the the ships of the combined US-NATO fleet fight drones swoop in and try to take them out. After crews are exhausted, and the damage to the fleet caused fires, damaged equipment, and killed or allied command ordered SNGM Two to head towards so, but it would take another half day to get Though not a surprise to the US, the Baltic Sea the American Navy. Keeping outside of range, the attacks to weaken the US-NATO fleet before coming the Russians decided to strike. The resulting World War Two. More than 60 ships and several Russian ships launch missile after missile at the fleet shoots down most, but some ships, weakened are lost. Thankfully, as it appears the US forces within range and begins firing Naval Strike Standoff Missiles; the Baltic Sea fleet is quickly with the US fleet. With US submarines pursuing the rule the Baltic Sea. Day Four. After the US Navy Back in the Suwalki Gap, American commanders are troops now surrounded on three sides, supreme to abandon the Suwalki Gap and reconstitute Response Force for a counteroffensive. But the the defenders continue to hold on to Vilnius as Estonian and Lithuanian defenders have traded 100 kilometers left before Russians are knocking for the Baltics, the Navy sends another strike support for the trapped defenders. In addition to that has not been seen since World War Two. With the decision is made to send them into the fight. unopposed behind friendly lines and head towards conducts the largest airborne drop since World Brigade, along with elements from other NATO since World War Two. Now, with close to 20,000 the defenders of the Baltics fight even harder to sent to the Baltics, the situation has stabilized now, at just a kilometer or two per day, but hundred meters. Because of this, Russian troops have taken in Estonia and Latvia. In Lithuania, reminiscent of the battle for Bakhmut, with nearly drones continually harassing allied troops. NATO air forces totally dominate the skies. the beleaguered defenders know that, eventually, increasingly frustrated with the situation. He Kyiv happening again. And the problem only gets Agreeing to help relieve pressure in Poland counteroffensive in Kherson. Russian forces of heavy weapons and equipment for the fight in Ukraine is now a war of movement once more. in Kherson collapsed due to the arrival of F-16s at hand. As the Russians abandon Kherson oblast help in retaking Crimea since it is now or never. But why? At this moment, Biden still seeks to the Russians have already failed to take Rapid Response Force is making steady gains each oblast being neutralized as an offensive force and does not want to further escalate the war by he could not even if he wanted to. This still controls the Bosphorus Straight because of allows Turkey to close off the straights during at war with Russia, it too sees allowing NATO Turkey also sees the writing on the wall and does this would severely hurt the economies of several However, Ukraine is not the only other outside the American fleet set sail for Europe. The one hundred thousand Soldiers, Sailors, Marines, threat of Russian submarines, the American convoy, transports, oilers, cargo vessels, and warships, the force zig zags erratically hoping to throw despite having air cover from a carrier strike formation and begin firing. Several cargo ships fire torpedoes and anti-submarine rockets at their force sinks several Russian submarines. But as wonders how these submarines got so far into the Sea. The answer to that is Africa. Since around Though they have mainly kept a low profile for of Ukraine started, Russian PMC groups, most court any half-wit dictator and war criminal that Russian PMCs have seriously ramped up or countries like Libya, Sudan, the Central African for this is the economic exploitation of these manufacturing, publishing, and other industries Putin gets his fair share of the profits, and this is used to bolster his foreign reserves and help the attention in the media has been on Russian war governments failed to notice was the massive Russia has recently courted the commander of the the true Libyan government, to have a naval base fighters. With a naval base on the Mediterranean, Atlantic while the bulk of the NATO alliance Sea or patrolling the Greenland-Iceland-UK gap to North Atlantic. This will have to be dealt with the entire 300,000 Rapid Response Force has been Marine and paratrooper reinforcements have helped continue to try and punch through NATO defenses But there are a few problems. A massive air trapped defenders in the Baltics to keep them aircraft are mobilized for this effort to fly and medical supplies each day. The Navy also most seriously wounded and take them to safety. and drone attacks are constant. They are trying Poland and the Baltic countries so their strikes of almost constant combat, the warships are almost vertical launch systems at sea, the supreme allied much of the fleet to refit back in Rota, Spain, to withdrawing, the ground counteroffensive loses higher quality than Russian troops, the Russians or Russia to replenish the horrendous losses the advantage is still on the US and NATO precision weapons in the first few weeks of the threat to allied air power. As a result, US and night. Additionally, US special forces, including alongside NATO partners, are wreaking havoc combined power of the allied air campaign, high casualties, and a breakdown in command where they are and dig in. Week Three. By of ships and personnel had arrived in Europe. To up into smaller ones. These smaller detachments and Greece. From there, they began disembarking throughout Western Europe. For decades, US and just this very reason. While the massive convoy ammunition, food, and other material, these at these depots have been working since day ready for these troops. By the end of the week, been issued their equipment. Now numbering almost twice the numerical advantage on the Russians. parts of the Baltics might have on paper more most of their equipment does not work, has been to Western equipment. The Russians are scrambling consolidates for a final push to retake NATO they build three separate layers of defense. belts with hastily dug slit trenches manned by to hold here but have these men sacrificed to slow The second line of Russian defenses consists contract infantry soldiers, and professionally is a third line consisting of fewer minefields and from fighting or just newly arrived and waiting fight ahead of the alliance is a tough one. dug-in tanks, dense minefields, electronic jamming this fight is nothing like the US has ever seen However, as they push on and advance slowly by US drones and air power pound Russian positions fire to eliminate Russian indirect fires. another one is happening in the Mediterranean. Allied Command directed portions of the task force causing numerous casualties, and with the bulk to stop them. Instead, the US and NATO forces it inoperable. Resistance during the landings is their Libyan counterparts run for their lives. submarines still moored alongside. Several others the Navy and Air Force. After the Marines blow command makes the decision to occupy Tobruk the allied armies will need large amounts of be secured. Week Four. After several days of hard have broken through the first defensive lines and scrambles to send reinforcements to the Suwalki Sensing an opportunity, the NATO defenders which caught the Russians by surprise. But this is the Ukrainian military has completely liberated in the east. With the bulk of Russian forces the DPR and LPR militias have been left largely punch through their lines and begin retaking allied armies counterattacking across every front, army unable to take any of the Baltic capitals, the loss of his Baltic Sea Fleet, and the he knows there are not very many ways to Putin does not want to give in and instead has avoided general mobilization, he consults his him to pull back what remains of Russian forces in destroyed. They try to convince him that they and maybe they can still negotiate for what is having none of it. Instead, he doubles down and commit the Russian people to a generation of Putin. This group of roughly a dozen men carries military, police, and intelligence services. They back down now, something might happen to him like he has lost control, Putin gives in and tells the an emergency meeting with Allied headquarters in troops will maintain their current positions. tell him that unless Russia withdraws from all they will continue the offensive until that keep the territory in Ukraine, the answer is a all his forces back to the international borders the war will continue with a US-led offensive would face more unrest at home due to general territory, Putin agrees. Though the war is now not give up until he is dead. Whether he will guess. But what do you think? Could the or would there be unexpected twists and turns? below and make sure you subscribe to The Military check out If CHINA and U.S. Go To War, Who Loses