The Roman Empire seemed unbeatable at the world has ever seen. It fended off complex administrative state that ruled and as far east as modern-day Iraq. At its And today, it's a distant memory. Why did the Roman Empire ultimately fall? off? Was it undone by internal conflict? Or did isn't any one of those - and the empire's To find the truth of the Roman Empire's fall, in the first place - because initially, it was a taken over from the previously flawed monarchy, more unified government. One man was more than the man appointed perpetual dictator He started consolidating power, becoming military campaigns - and many of his rivals his newfound power. The elites of Rome biggest political crises in Roman history. to claim power - and in the end the wars saw He continued his father's legacy, conquering that country's Hellenistic era. Soon, he and the Roman senate responded accordingly. allowed him to rule in perpetuity, and soon no one feared Caesar's role as dictator had accidentally And he wouldn't be the last. From then, Rome would not only become hereditary leaders both good and bad, but would envelop a large part of Europe and continue to serve as the center of the organized into provinces - each administered approaches to leadership. The empire would for one leader to maintain full control over every maintain some level of autonomy - as long as they that would arouse the ire of the Emperor. empire was stable enough that the next two But under the surface, trouble was brewing. During the first century CE, religious conflict Empire largely worshipped the traditional pantheon pantheon led by Zeus. This polytheistic faith to the individual Gods and a wild lore that Jupiter's dalliances with human women, and gods were both common staples of the faith in those out of the teachings of the Jewish Rabbi by the Roman authorities, this new Abrahamic of Judaism - and largely received the same the more dramatic stories like early Christians the Roman Empire saw new faiths But religions aren't easy to kill. The conflict stayed under the radar and during those early years, and a wise emperor empire's stability rather than persecuting you're often relying on the whims of birth Rome's luck ran out. The new Emperor, Commodus, The youngest Emperor ever at the age of emotions which led to recklessness. A teenager Perish the thought! As her was inheriting it was hard for him to screw up the larger things things into chaos. He was known for his fickle and of the gladiator matches in the Colosseum. He largely meant anyone who faced off against him built a cult of personality around himself, eventually be immortalized by Joaquin Phoenix as And his reign ended as it began - with chaos. Commodus was assassinated by a wrestler in and things would only get more chaotic him a public enemy and tore down by a new Emperor - in what would become It was 193 CE, and civil war ensued. The next after taking office, his successor would become Emperor, and he would be ousted and only die down when two emperors, Septimus Severus both considering the other to be a threat. And soon, people outside would start noticing. Many of the provinces of Rome had been had developed their own cultures. So as the to wonder - why not just make it official? As crazy, and inconsequential Emperors - started to break away at an increasing rate. which took most of the territory of Then came the Palmyrene Empire, which was led and the eastern coast of the Mediterranean - It was the biggest crisis in Rome's history A series of three Emperors in the third end - but the Roman Empire that emerged from who only reigned for five years the diminished Roman military was under attack and it seemed like the Empire's days might be the ranks of the military and knew its workings attacking tribes and conquered both the Palmyrene with mighty walls, abandoned provinces that Rome's economy. Under his short tenure, Rome His successors would build on his work. Diocletian would reign for twenty years and was work had been completed already. He would focus which included creating a system of regional over its far-flung provinces. While the empire provinces, Diocletian started expanding once he became the first Roman emperor to abdicate But his successor might have The thirty-one year run of Constantine the the empire's history. He introduced a new and reorganized the army to be more effective. to Christianity - reportedly spurred on by him converted, so did many of the citizens of Rome, power religion. At the end of his reign, expanding as far east as Byzantium. After his starting a new dynasty which would rule over and many people assumed that this was So how could things go so very wrong? The year was 337 CE when Constantine passed full of successes, there was trouble lurking had given the Church massive power in Rome, and there were some who didn't wish for the empire to the state were executed, and their estates was paid well, but soon the soldiers seemed empire was still the greatest power in the world, But empire's aren't immune from internal strife. In the aftermath of the death of Constantine, for contest, and this era led to many conflicts ruled jointly, but chaos would follow and territories were taken over by local leaders, whims of military victories. Despite this, and by 379 a new emperor named Theodosius had of Rome's greatest military leaders and But far greater threats were As far-reaching as Rome's borders were at the from a continent away would throw the whole thing Fierce warriors, they had been making inroads into people fled. Their mass takeover of territory led Empire. Suddenly, the Romans had a huge influx - and Rome's lack of management in their border government may have been able to resettle these Roman state - even using their warrior smarts the corrupt local officials instead chose to They would be proven very wrong. Now the Romans had a large number of outside had seen Roman hospitality was lacking, and by other tribesmen heading over the crisis quickly turned into a guerilla war. While spread out and concentrated in the cities, and the the invaders fought much harder than expected. The kept safe in their walled cities - but across the Goths quickly gained territory and claimed the And Theodosius may have neglected The Emperor may have restored Rome's were still looking kind of bare after decades taxes to confront the barbarians - and was met He also cracked down on other faiths, doubling and even persecuted believers of other facing new rebellions in the west seeking to declaring himself emperor in 383 and taking over losses in territory and troops until Maximus and was ultimately defeated in 388. Rome once But soon this would all change. By 395 CE, Theodosius I would die, leaving behind two sons would each claim the empire, but neither essentially take charge of the situation. Rather after the last, the two halves of the empire emperor, Arcadius, took the eastern Roman Empire, in the future, while the other son, Honorius, It was the biggest loss of territory for Rome yet The Byzantine Empire would endure, lasting base in the city of Constantinople - but power of the Roman Empire. As for Rome, it were drawing short. Without the massive administering the empire was much more barbarian invasions were harder to control. The feared military leaders of all time - and now It would be a death of a thousand Over the next eighty years, the Roman Empire dealt and the Gothic population throughout the empire. to be, and it frequently found itself in retreat. and Rome started to look less like a powerful leaders would manage to restore the military's where it could reclaim significant amounts of where one ambitious king decided it His name was Odoacer - and the been one of the most important people in history. The last Emperor of Rome, Romulus was only a sixteen year old boy when Odoacer dealt kindly with the young king as he sacked boy to remain alive. He sent him away to live before declaring himself the ruler of Italy. job a teenager had ever experienced! But now, the how you define it, because Odoacer now ruled what occupier. The Roman Senate didn't consider him a seal of Rome to the eastern empire. And so the Or did it? The Roman empire as a government was no more, Roman Catholic Church. It was still in its but its faith had spread very quickly and would Church spread, so did its power - and for it would be the de facto government in much and few would challenge the Pope's his own religion when the Church while the Roman Empire did not control Europe But why did the empire actually fall? There is no one reason why the Roman Empire bigger than the collapse of its military. Rome's and it attracted the best with good pay. But as to recruit new troops effectively. This led mercenaries, who neither had the skills nor the the invading armies they were fighting, and the They tried to make up for the personnel Many emperors consistently overspent on easier to manage. The huge territory they communicate effectively, and with no e-mail it was often a matter of weeks or months before empire got larger and larger, this became a focused on protecting its key cities than But inside Rome itself, things One of the biggest problems with Rome in its last to the top. Being Roman Emperor was not a position that came with near-unlimited power, getting the job came with massive risks. At one over twenty men held the title in less than from this job was with a knife between trendsetter. When an Emperor did manage a good chance they would essentially turn the appointing their allies to powerful positions. And would often take matters into their own hands and than they were worth. With a government like this, All of these factors came together, For centuries, the Roman Empire had Their expeditions would face little to no sweep into a territory and take it over as meant having to build new infrastructure that in some way as well as enforcing the rule citizens. So the army wound up being more of and it was no longer prepared to deal with such as the Goths came calling after being the Roman military wasn't forimdable And it all came down to one fatal mistake. If the military was well-prepared for this the Goth armies and defended their territory. They the Goths. But once the Goths had managed to be much harder to displace them without a major the worst option of all - they didn't aggressively but they also didn't welcome them into the empire could have. Instead, they exploited them and hired to the empire. This led to constant civil wars and a slow but sure loss of territory. And coordinate a better response to the Goths seeking Want to learn more about the end Ancient Egyptians Went Extinct",