You're looking at a memorial for the second look different from other memorials. They don't shapes and geometric forms seem to come from these monuments no longer exists. In fact, the monuments look so weird? Why were many abandoned invisible. Do you really know who the local man on our values. And how values can change. The second Most define how we should remember this war. The more lives than the entire English and American Hitler announced that the fall of the city was park to this battle opened, this was the Russia pointing the way with open mouth and a nation. To the west in Germany, the message of not victorious but grieving over the loss of of life war brings. In America, this world war The atmosphere is uplifting. People take former socialist state of Yugoslavia, world I traveled all across the western Balkans to show This is Tjentiste. In a field, two roads lead to you can see it resembles wings. A sign resembling This place was the location of a brave escape. In forces. But the most successful resistance group valley in 1943, Tito and 22.000 partisans were unbelievable escape but lost many soldiers. This work of art. But its design tells a geopolitical An estimated 6 to 11 percent of the population So after the war, countless families needed to look like the later abstract versions. They're the war it was local communities that made simple state don't look abstract at all. Why is this? The Union as a big brother. So they follow the Soviet life of the people. I mean, look at these veins. big bully. They distance themselves from the never skip leg day, they take inspiration from You get abstract monuments, organic shapes. after the Serbo-Croat for monument. But the why they look so different. Yugoslavia had not a simple story of partisan winners and German ethnicities and different religions. During the Nazi Germany installed a puppet regime in at Jasenovac, Croatia's Auschwitz. The Croatian Jews and Roma in this death camp and many more now have to live together. The partisans want to A revolutionary socialist future where ethnic when a first design for a memorial focused on the this would stoke ethnic tensions. So instead he forgiveness. The communist party used monuments to order to gain control of its society in the given monuments were initiated by local communities. that celebrate the socialist revolution. This is five-pointed star, the same star you can find in the worker's hand. This monument is to the Kosmai look closer, you see that the structure has five This sculpture looks futuristic. It almost looks Yugoslav society was an optimistic society only be real if new generations learned about teaching grounds. This monument in Croatia became three million people came to visit. And this is monuments to the second world war. But in the This is the Petrova Gora monument in Croatia. of thousands of Serbian peasants. It took many aluminium plates. A radio antenna monument is literally a shell of itself. But fate. This is the Makljen monument in Bosnia dynamite. It's just one of many that did not In the beginning of the 1990s Yugoslavia came to topic. The nation broke apart and the fragments their own story was. For some that meant a total Destroying the monuments that were once meant to reimagined to fit into the new national identity. West discovered these structures. Their alien can be found in artwork, in games, set pieces in alone you lose important context. This leads to becomes a petty backdrop to promote sunglasses. And although the appeal of these places is made to remember thousands of casualties and with the Soviet example and made their own unique art project in the world. With the goal to shape goal that ultimately failed. Knowing that context designing these memorials were really artistic. to know math. As a historian I love words but I'm 3D program Blender, I've been coming face to face year old Jochem that needed extra lessons to pass fears. Brilliant is where you learn by doing data analysis, programming and AI. You can build personal and professional growth in just you can learn on the go and it's so much better has helped me better navigate 3D space is this to finally start with Python. Try everything days if you go to brilliant.org/presentpast and if 20% off an annual premium subscription.