The cinema is changed. I feel it in the theatre. for none now live who remember it- you know, I really feel like When people talk about the Marvelization of of what that means; the constant quipping, everything has to be a franchise now. But these heart of the issue, because for every franchise praise. And for every joke we cringe at, there actual problem? What does it really mean when in short, the problem, I think, has to do with a a term I made up in an attempt to offer a more why you're no longer keeping up with Marvel but not all of them. Where all these stupid jokes for that matter, why this didn't work either even grand productions with movie stars that you really nevertheless end up feeling completely hollow. go to mubi.com/likestoriesofold First off; to explain the basic idea of lightsaber. The lightsaber might just be the look and sound that most people on the planet it's not just that people know what it is, there's because the lightsaber is not just a weapon, which suggests up close and personal combat, it symbolically communicates a lot about the world it exists in. It even has a clear color is that the lightsaber condenses a multitude object. And as such, we can see it as an example because it renders disorder into order, it takes then compresses them into their absolute essence. anti-entropic storytelling because it and because it invokes the feeling that everything a way that just makes sense. And though I've the same principle holds true for every aspect the worldbuilding, and so on. If you look at some clearly see this anti-entropic movement reflected idea, be it Samurai's defending a village from the wrong place at the wrong time, or a group of to then try and create the perfect encapsulation story element and every filmmaking technique These movies are obviously great, but from a also form a bit of a frustration. Because going cool as this, you obviously want more. After all, it made a lot of money at the box office, and But here's the problem: if you already have the go from here? How do you top this? Well, as the further compress, if you have already reached the it the same, or you can start adding complexity, dilute the original concept. If maintained on just some harmless variation. But when this broader level... like, let's say you have a really facing the ultimate hunter, and you want more butcher than this, you change humanity's and when that turns out to be not very successful, another iconic movie monster, one that has its but you don't care, you move it into your own right? The critics might say no, but a 177 million that's more money than the original movies made storytelling, forget about themes and meanings, be smashed together, rebranded, revived. Everyone before. You learn to embrace the disorder, the will soon find out, because you're about to enter: of Marvelization is to live in a time widespread phenomenon that affects cinema in others less so. And so, to properly discuss I have broken it down into three key features characteristics, with the first and most Mr. Stark, you've become part of a bigger Most of the blame for this one seems bring the idea of franchise-building into the actively planning ahead for crossover events and the idea of the stand-alone movie. But it is there is an argument to be made that in the anti-entropic storytelling, it was just doing Looking back on it now, it's pretty obvious that movie to tell one self-contained story, or even sense where you would end up with a few sequels establish an entire cinematic universe containing interconnected with each other, and that slowly and showdowns until ultimately coming together in if you just look at the Infinity Saga, starting I do believe they pulled it off. They took that gradually expands, and brought us along to what is generally considered to be a satisfying Infinity Saga was a masterpiece? No, but again, the Marvel franchise are more like adventure continuum that isn't designed to be groundbreaking crescendos in these more monumental events, and to the characters. Or at least, that's how I So where then does franchise-building become the actual storytelling? Well, we see this most and took all the wrong lessons from it, took that much as a storytelling device, but more so as among other issues, didn't take the time to let to force it's grand finales into existence before We saw it with the Dark Universe which didn't worthwhile connection between its stories and recent expansion of Star Wars, which definitely universe with enough room for all kinds of loosely can't seem to let go of the handful of trilogy that everything keeps coming back to. We have more characters and more stories than long-form on television, and it's just becoming has become daily homework, which not only makes it but it also makes the interconnectivity feel less a major storyline like the Infinity War. I know we've only seen it very sporadically and I'm just And also, there still doesn't seem to be a strong to dozens of new faces, but a lot of them seem to to become the new Iron Man or Captain America, to constant in what is otherwise a sea of variables. entropy is that it is persistent, it's always as it keeps pushing these franchises further unifying center, insofar as they were able to to break down their more fundamental assumptions. franchise building is not about a shared universe, to the second key feature of Marvelization: A while back, I went to go see the Dungeons and end, when the main villain was all but defeated, it's funny or not, that's straight from the here is unavoidable, Marvel itself even did is it here in this completely unrelated movie? A it seems to signify a form of interconnectivity or of, and that a lot of people seem to dislike.. Though not always. Because here again, the issue Being self-aware and including meta-commentary effectively in stories where self-reflection is of the story. We see this in movies such Asteroid City which are all specifically about and which therefore almost naturally draw say Deadpool was successful in this sense because is a superhero who is more or less aware that it fitting that he occasionally comments on the Superhero landing, she's Meta-commentary can also be included as a part Take for example how Christopher Nolan's The the dynamics of filmmaking to add weight to their around deception and crafting illusions. and they fill it with their subconscious. self-awareness is not connected to the actual idea but instead directs your attention this kind of meta-referencing that we've been You know, I'm something of a scientist myself. isn't necessarily a bad thing, it is, after human experience and therefore worth exploring contribute to the story at hand and is just this" kind of way, that's when nostalgia merely examples of this, with rising degrees of severity, his real name is Khan in Star Trek Into Darkness characters in the story; Jurassic World pretty you of the other dinosaur movie that was actually And the interesting thing is that, over time, happening even without the nostalgia factor. example, there's a ton of movies now that seem to it a reference to some other recent movie, or just a movie that has nothing to do with Marvel, showing up, and Chris Evans doing his little were clearly deliberate, they are not true homages that is; references in the form of loving tributes served as an inspiration, like the way John Wick 4 of Arabia, or how the 2014 Godzilla reboot showed Park. No, these are references to nowhere, They are part of the wider memeification equals entertainment; where our attention is and where it becomes increasingly difficult to Here, we might be moving into the broader that we can no longer communicate sincerely and into a joke instead. I have already discussed this want to briefly bring it up again here because perspective, this kind of ironic detachment is an a character who is struggling with her identity, finds meaning in the kind words of someone What? Was that like really corny? you immediately disconnect the audience from the at the basis of her entire character arc. It's becoming less sincere and more ironic that we have this kind of storytelling entropy that we became think there is some relation here, and I don't The thing about both the rise growing meta-awareness is that they're not but by the larger industry they exist in. And key feature of Marvelization: and turned it into something trivial. so I don't want to go too deeply into the broader affecting how movies are made, such as the rise star and the mid-budget production, but I do want developments have had on the actual storytelling intuitive feeling than a factual observation. Not the Amazon series based on The Lord of the Rings and this is coming from a huge Lord of the be transported back into this world in the same but I just wasn't feeling it, not even a little with its storytelling that contributed to this those aside, there just wasn't any magic here. recent years, the feeling that all the projects given the time and the budget to really become like they're doing everything right, I mean, look they do nothing for me. Try as I might, I wondered, as any disillusioned adult at one point like The Lord of the Rings just because they were to make sure, I treated myself to a little 4k that no, it's definitely not me. These movies are me thinking. Part of why I loved the Lord of the themselves, but also because of how they were movies to come out with an extensive making-of new Blu-ray. - There we go - The appendices, as process from the writing of the script, to the cast, basically everything from beginning to me was the sheer amount of passion that was just year old that I was, it made filmmaking look just been projection, but I'd swear I could feel It makes sense that passion is an anti-entropic one of the strongest ones, because passion is the filmmaking process to work with absolute absolute state of perfection. And this is exactly look at many of the bigger properties in recent by this kind of creative passion, but rather by movies or TV shows not because they're just part of bigger vision, a more entropic vision marketing strategies, franchise potential actual storytelling. It's the difference between like Game of Thrones. The first is born from the to bring a complex and subversive fantasy story into this kind of thing. The second one just wants something similar. In other words, when it the actual story but about the appearance of a just aching to create Citadel, they just wanted buy that anyone was dying to create The Gray Man, the bigger streaming service shopping cart that discussed features of Marvelization, they had potential to be worth pursuing. Through this lens, so significantly over the years; the passion on quality storytelling, the showrunners became staying ahead of audience speculation which caused original vision. And instead of sticking with the by the promise of other projects which resulted To be clear, I don't want this to sound like fundamentally bad kind of thing, it's definitely have to deal with the business side, and corporate involved. If you look a little closer at how work to make their Rings of Power series, it are genuine fans and creators with the best of Abrams for example when he was selected to reboot do the same for Jurassic Park. But still, I can't even if only on a subconscious level, between filmmakers relentlessly pursued that green light "ordered" by studios and had those passionate shining example of this is the Hobbit trilogy, Lord of the Rings, but which just wasn't the same. movies have already been widely documented, they were initially Guillermo del Toro's passion Peter Jackson after a conflict with the studio. In was essentially The Lord of the Rings, but made And to me, the results speak for themselves. Despite Marvelization currently being a arguably the dominant one, it's not is. There's obviously always interesting stuff but even within them, there are notable exceptions become another victim of Marvelization, but some genuinely great cinematic experiences. So how level we've been discussing, it's actually make original movies like Oppenheimer and Barbie some larger cultural or cinematic framework passionate filmmakers driving the production. Then actually, that's a bit too easy, right? franchise entries that we do love? How about- return to classical cinema, and sure, the movie was it really that made this feel so classical? didn't even do that in the original. That it it was still a sequel filled with nostalgia. What Afterlife or the latest Indiana Jones? I think we can do better; I think the real reason one of the rare examples in which a sequel takes even further. In other words, it continued a story but it actually managed to be anti-entropic. these elite, best of the best pilots who have to right? And the original definitely captured that, and just look at the actual story, you can see different elements that are connected, but not exactly what's different about Maverick. strike team and taking it out. dangerous mission right at the very takes all those other elements, the rivalry, and so on, and unites them into a more singular original was actually that sword-lightsaber, and complexity and leave only the absolute essence. quite rare, especially for sequels. It usually Ocean's Eleven, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, adaptation of Dune. I think the best other would be the Mission Impossible series, which of stylization and background stories before providing entertaining espionage action and is also true for the John Wick series, if the core how that story is told, that is; if it's more a lot easier to do the same thing multiple But there are other ways for sequels to build on There is the James Cameron way, which means that two of them actually, with no way to further again in a watered down or more convoluted way, change the core idea. Turn the claustrophobic thriller. And that machine that came back let's have it come back again to protect it. By Cameron could still explore the same central but do so from an entirely new starting point, not only feel fresh, but actually feel deepened is of course The Dark Knight. The previous origin story about how Bruce Wayne became Batman as I've already discussed in my extensive review around by confronting Bruce with the unintended from an active to a reactive protagonist, tale with a whole new layer of fascinating I've seen now what I would have Related to the James Cameron way, there's I also like to refer to as envelopment, where bigger one. The Godfather was a story of one that story became part of a multi-generational cycle of violence and family tragedies. The other Wars trilogy, which took its archetypal hero's first stage of an even greater one by adding grand scale in The Empire Strikes Back and then cycle. The key factor here, which is all too story is completed. Or for that matter, when any anti-entropic storytelling is about creation, beautiful and then doing it all over again from of that, it's the outward movement towards that a purgatory of empty eyes and hollow beauty, of the forgotten memory of what was once real, achieve that, we have to be able to move The problem with trying to construct a unifying neither is this one. I tried to focus as much as I related to the actual storytelling in movies, but One such element that I think is also highly to the current state of cinema, is the problem with movies has changed. Because even if there are this era of Marvelization has also made it so in which we just mindlessly consume whatever those cheap thrills of recognizability and the however, ways to break out of this cycle as well, again. Over the years, I've personally used a and really enjoyable, and luckily for you, they the curated online cinema streaming handpicked first, here's what I used to do when I was feeling movies together so I could really immerse myself era of filmmaking. But this was easier said than to look or where to go next. And that's what's so cinema meaning that every movie is carefully watching something interesting. And furthermore, connected me to filmmakers, subcultures and entire about. It's just such an incredibly refreshing and to offer, and to reinvigorate your passion for it. do so by going to mubi.com/likestoriesofold to get to claim your extended free trial, and