- In the northernmost edge of Hyrule hiding Hyrule's most imposing ruin, once a center of power and military might Over time, it lost its intended purpose and became They're what keeps the legacy of the former hosts, alive. But what is the true story and key people Let's uncover it together after you leave a like, We are aiming for 2,000 likes! Twilight Princess marked Zelda creator, before passing down the Master Sword. - The Knights of Hyrule. The noble class that once frequented the halls which by the era of Twilight era, Though to find the root of this mystery, we need Skyloft's Knight Academy was founded 25 years prior First, during the Civil War, the order returned, including with the Hero of Time's father and with the return of the key symbol of the Knights. The Hylian Shield, which both in Ocarina of Time are also relics left behind by a defunct elite order. This order, however, was succeeded by a worse city garrison which has failed to defend Hyrule's capital - In both cases, the Hero of Time is the catalyst to the return of the order. Death or victory, and return to the past with the Triforce of Courage, The source of the refounding of the order has never but luckily, Snowpeak ruins and Wii U remaster, include three pieces, or more specifically, two portraits Our Triforce though is a little turned-around as Power and Wisdom in this case Let's begin with the Triforce of Wisdom. Rauru, the Light Sage who was the right man after the Interloper War, almost tore it apart. He oversaw the construction of the Temple of Time and sealed himself with the Triforce in the It has been theorized whether he remained dead But I will be honest: Freezing himself until the moment the Triforce That being Ganondorf's revenge plot and Rauru took the form of an owl, Kaepora Gaepora. Indeed, the potential bloodline descendant of Gaepora. And yes, he is the Triforce of Wisdom here for a reason. We all know what happens from here in both but the Child timeline is different. - Here, the experienced Link returns from Still, he had earned the Triforce of Courage, As a consequence, Rauru in the Chamber of Sages and with time left to live after preserving himself, This is likely prior to Ganondorf's invasion as detailed The Gerudo attack which followed after During this offensive, two locations were lost. Lon Lon Ranch and Hyrule Castle Now it is unclear when Rauru might have left the Chamber, becoming an advisor to the King of Hyrule, and possibly after his death if he fell Here is the thing though: Central Hyrule fell as we know and the layout of Old Castle Town This would force the remnant military survivors to relocate Here, they and the now militarizing Zora Though Zora's Domain was too small - As a result Rauru, now Zelda's key mentor, might have convinced King Zora to reestablish the defunct Knight order of the Kingdom. The unit that had once forced Ganondorf And here is the thing: All signs point to the which lasted for at least a few years. Rauru was likely instrumental along with Princess Zelda And within it, something else his final duty to Hyrule. The Sage of Light is the prime representation of a person who makes the right decisions - Giant complexes like this Knight academy and training grounds It takes years, which was fine for Rauru that could be trained for their intended purpose. During this time, Princess Zelda much like Rauru oversaw Link in the Adult connecting the world of Hyrule to two chosen children. Link and Zelda both taken care of by Rauru after Rauru is the one that sets them on the path And in the case of Twilight Princess, unless his portrait was found throughout Snowpeak ruins. Both the original version from 2006 and the The difference is the location that the Hero or in the case of Zelda, her rapier. Link does it from the Temple of Time, the only while Zelda might have from Snowpeak. This brings us to where the Princess of the era likely stayed while in exile from her capital This would be the Central Tower of Snowpeak Ruins. And what is found inside it? - What I believe was Zelda's bedroom. just as it is for the multiple bedrooms of the Princess Located in a tower above any other section of the mansion. And guess what? The symbol of the two is found in Zelda's chamber though only in the HD version of the game. Speaking of, within Snowpeak Ruins, we find where the royals and her noble knights in training At the same time, Zelda's personal chamber as it appears to be both a bedroom and an office. Most likely a meeting place for her with Rauru just like his potential ancestor, Gaepora, That is right-- and he might have honored this fact At the same time, he was born in ancient times and is than Princess Zelda of the Era of the Hero of Time. He is part of the Royal Family but dating back A reversal of what is the case with the time traveling Zelda to a totally different King Rauru in Tears of the Kingdom. Then, you have Auru-- an NPC in Twilight Princess only a younger version. He's balding, he wears a similar Seeing how celebrated Rauru is throughout whether that be statues, paintings, there's a possibility that there is middle, that being Rauru himself, - It all comes together like poetry. As the founder and first headmaster Rauru would naturally be commemorated with paintings He oversaw the training and preparation of the The Darkhammer, who Zeltik theorized back in 2020 Along with the beings who clad the giant armor Seeing how easily the Hylians lost to the initial Rauru and Zelda of the Era of the Hero of Time Not only to force Ganondorf to fealty, Enter the Darkhammer, the lizard beasts likely tamed Raised and trained to servitude in shining armor as Link got to experience. With probable Zora military assistance and of course, literal tanks in the form of Darkhammers, First in Hyrule Field and then in the Gerudo Desert, Naturally, we all know how this all ended. The several-year-long transformation of the Hyrule's most notorious prison and execution site. Rauru fulfilled his task, bringing back Central Hyrule just like he contributed to Link in the The triumphant Zelda becomes queen but what about the Hero of Time? - Might have joined the Knight order of courage sometime after the Triforce of Power Hence the Hero's shade who teaches the The Hero of Time most likely died in battle but became the Hero's shade Hence why the Hero of Twilight is the as established by Hyrule Historia. The Hero of Time left behind children to one day fulfill the task of bringing down Ganondorf. Alright. We have a very clear Rauru of Wisdom and Light, founding and heading this institution of courage, And this brings us to the other portraits That of a young Zora Royal. In the entrance hall, it hangs Twilight Princess HD, confirmed that it depicts when the Knights abandoned the mansion. Meaning that while Rauru's portrait remained, the Zora portraits were replaced when until the order left the mansion for good, before Queen Rutella's death during - The land was leased to the Knights, and the training of Darkhammers How do we know this? Well, this is because is draped both in the Knight's Crest and the Royal Crest. Upon the completion of the new castle right south, they might also have been delivered until they dissolved the Knight order abandoning the mountain fortress and the husband of Queen Rutella passed away. Hence why her portrait remains, along with all which was a secret of the Royal Family and their Knights. Naturally, Zora lived very long, but this happened after the birth of the Zora Prince, More likely during Twilight Zelda's father, This could have also happened when Ashei's father served We have the following statement from Ashei &quot;I grew up in the mountains with my father, He taught me the arts of war as though I was his son.&quot; Pointing to that, Hyrule managed to replace knights just a few years prior to Ganondorf's attacks. A fact that Ashei also recalls. Listen. I thought you were like those sorry excuses for Hyrule soldiers...but I thought wrong.&quot; - One generation is all it took to ruin Hyrule's defenses and cause Snowpeak to fall into disrepair The Royal Family of Hyrule truly is their own greatest Fortunately for Princess Zelda of the era of Twilight, the Hero of Time's long-term plan materialized in the form of the Hero of Twilight, And he surpassed all of them. In Snowpeak Ruins, he overcomes bringing back Yeta for the most heartwarming conclusion But what do you think happened? Did the Knights controlling the Darkhammers and did the dissolution of their order bring doom to Hyrule? Sound off in the comment section down below! If you haven't already, then be sure to leave a like, as we have more Zelda videos like this one A big thanks goes to you for watching, Special Shoutouts go to Royal Producers, and Heroes, You rock! And please enjoy one or both