King's Quest speed running but even so, the main series games With one notable exception. In the 35 years since this game's only a handful of and there are several, very Today, we're going to explore We'll discover why almost and hear the stories of In King's Quest III, slave to the evil wizard Manannan. Roughly speaking, we need to achieve Escape the wizard, travel across and save a princess from a dragon. Of course, this being an adventure and puzzles, some of It's like a riddle that you And you're not sure that you're ever without like a walkthrough or something, I can't even imagine how long King's Quest III differed in one major Every so often, the which gives you an opportunity But keep an eye on the clock, and catches you where or with items you're not supposed to have, [ zapping sounds ] [ disintegration sounds ] Manannan shows up at certain times. You have, to be in the you have to go within these certain limits, you have to watch that and be aware of it. It's almost like a thriller sort of With that context in mind, let's turn In the span of a week, in 2017, For the sake of time, we're achieved on February 19, 2017. Manannan, the wizard, always gives the at the beginning of the game, in this if you don't do what he asks, he'll Bill heads to the kitchen, Upstairs we find a few more in Manannan's closet, which The wizard really doesn't want you to have so, Bill hides the contraband There's only so much you can do so we have to wait for him to leave. And this is the first reason why The wizard always leaves on his first trip Bill waits here. Doing nothing With Manannan, gone Bill now has 25 He employs a bit of movement tech that On the game's fastest speed setting, appropriately called &quot;fastest&quot;, by how quickly your CPU Back when the game came out, the difference But, even just a few years later, &quot;fastest&quot; Bill increases the in-game speed, This idea originated from VyseOfLegends, and from there, Bill It's impossible to make fine so Bill doesn't do Downstairs, Bill grabs and then heads into the There's a chance for a cat to You can walk around him, it's splat city. [ tumbling down stairs noise ] [ tumbling down stairs noise ] Bill unfortunately gets one cat, He then approaches the spellbook, the game's magic spells, a form of copy are included in the you have to type the incantations If you mess up, by just one letter, [ morose yet happy music ] Bill's first spell gives him the ability to to use it, we need to dip either into the enchanted jar Bill happens to be short one eagle feather, so he has to a walk down At the bottom, we're going Why? So, it's time to talk The eagle is just the big RNG reset point because it It can drop a feather it There are a few locations where of showing up each time But it doesn't show up immediately, between two and fourteen seconds. there's only a one-in-two So, there's only a one-in-eight chance of you getting a feather, until fourteen seconds It killed at least half my runs. So, Bill waits, realizes and moves on hoping To book passage on the ship to cross the and there happens to be a bandit hideout in the top of this tree with There's a chance of the bandits so if that happens you need Once on the rope ladder, Bill has to There's only a one-in-four Bill gets it on the second try, Oh, yeah, you can fall off Bill takes the purse off He continues gathering items, and finds the eagle on the screen with the Thankfully the bird gives up a One of our stops is the town store, where we stock up on it has Kenny, the cute little dog. if this for a casual playthrough, we would and for a brief moment, this was thought to that is, before somebody pointed this has nothing to do except that there is a meme category called &quot;doge percent&quot;, where the goal is Using the magic map, Bill teleports to the as the map won't put he uses the feather to turn into an eagle, where he casts some more magic spells. on the first, &quot;transforming he messes up, and Gwydion turns Oops. After restoring and casting the cat cookie Bill casts &quot;brewing a storm&quot;? &quot;becoming invisible&quot; and with all that done, we and enter the tavern where Okay I- time out to explain this. The text parser accepts synonyms, and it doesn't require you so instead of typing &quot;talk to there's just something anyway, we give the pirate the gold, and Bill boards the ship. Now if you've played this game, because what you're supposed to do is mix the magic cat cookie in with turning him into a cat. If you don't do this, once you're on the ship and blast you to But, Manannan and won't and after each screen transition, you and, he won't show up at all on You might be asking why if he didn't actually need the cookie, that's because doing so gives you an empty So, Bill grabs the box, uses it to get a Bill gets all of his belongings from and this this my friends, is the biggest There's an unskippable fourteen minute wait from the time you get to your arrival at Daventry. That's fourteen minutes. Of doing. Nobody wants to do that. Only crazy people like me First time when I did a run of it, I ended up just getting up from walking I did laundry in my speedrun sometimes. bring up my basket, like fold my okay still got five my favorite way of Nick's Picks. Backgammon, against But, I ran this stupid game enough times Skin of my teeth. During NASA, my NASA run, I so I did a speedrun during my speedrun. It also became tradition for It's a perfect time for Once the fourteen minutes and then rubs the magic the rock teleports you at random to a nearby screen. thankfully, you can rub the but waiting for the right screen Bill's hoping for a one-in-ten He then swims to shore, What Bill's hoping for now is to be teleported to a either that, or the using the rock saves I guess the King's Quest games It takes a few tries for This screen is super unfortunate Eventually though, Bill gets the right and now, he has to be really careful. Bill is a much better and he has a little trouble once on the ground, he turns into an Up above, there's a dragon and it's our job to save her. Bill could walk up the stairs inside of A few times, he ends but he actually needs this screen, so he Bill stirs the &quot;brewing a storm&quot;, [ thunder ] Bill and unties Princess we're actually her son to King Graham and Queen Valanice. SPOILERS OVER. Rubbing the rock so Bill has to run an escort which might look familiar, because Sierra Bill does a little bit of fast movement, and then arrives at Castle Daventry, which is the end of the game, So. Why don't more it's full of punishing RNG at every turn, and there's a fourteen minute now that we know why more people don't run in spite of all of those difficulties, how After Bill's world records, no one with the arrival of Chuck the biggest difference is the presence of many more zips. whereas Bill used them sparingly, Chuck and our task, far as we were concerned, was to get this game out of ten thousand and implement zips. Ironically, we started He actually routed zips into the Which was pretty funny honestly. I don't blame him. Bill would actually make a few but never got a good enough Along with the rest of the King's Quest max cycles were now allowed which sped things up even more. this may may seem almost like cheating, but it's actually comparable to would have been able to achieve. and keep in mind, fastest speed being unthrottled is as a side note, if zips there is a ScummVM speedrun category, where the speed it is more like back when the game was first released. In Lumophile's there's also a minor optimization it turns out the incantation about the spaces between your words, so you don't need to type them. this saves time, but it makes other than that, both runners still If you just break it down it's RNG, and it's waiting, precision is all of speed it comes down to Chuck and Lumophile would several times over the next six months. Chuck with a 34:16, then Lumo Look at that! Would you look at that. Chuck would earn a 32:08 which Lumophile would be with a the bird just went by to- This is the run boys. And all this time, Bill's records just waiting for In the summer of 2019, Bill would discover that you could increase your by saving and restoring It essentially allows you to re-roll On July 1, Chuck would earn this run. having to wait about a minute at Alright cool. He gets a first cycle tree house, and he's his rock lock after the boat wait is also with a few spills on the beach path. At the dragon his luck is equally unkind, before getting the right screen. Rosella trips him up he was able to finish with a 30:46. Not a world record, but he On July 3, 2019, he would his hand on the save hotkey, ready for whatever fate the RNG gods had and on that day, the gods smiled. A first cycle eagle feather. by the time Chuck gets to he's so far ahead, he Oh my god dude you have like, almost to a T right now. Perfect. you know how Crazy dude. To pass the time, he fires up Super Mario and of course Ocean Man, As land-ho approached, I guess the game itself? in any case, Chuck Very nearly perfect. The rock climbing goes smoothly, with Rosella in tow, Chuck makes his Disaster. With one slip Alexander, falls to his and Chuck has to reload his last save. losing 18 seconds still. Chuck arrives victorious at 28:58, the first sub-thirty time. The grind was over. I had achieved what I needed to achieve, which was to finally I just kind of was like over it. I didn't want to try and I didn't want to do any of I couldn't see myself doing it if I do a King's Quest I'll run the game but that'll be that. And so, the record would stand. after all, What's that I hear? is that- sleigh bells? Yes, the runner's name is Santa Claus. unfortunately he was really and couldn't do an interview. but he did graciously answer my so we're going to hire let's see here, &quot;make it sound I had a long history of stuff like Winter Challenge, Grand Prix Circuit, then, in January of 2021, I and happened upon one OneShortEye's That's what I realized there was a speed running scene Ho ho ho! Santa Claus came seemingly out of nowhere world records in Space Quest, he turned to King's Quest III. Routing zips appealed to me my original goal was just to route Santa showed a command that was impressive to say the least. he also started remember how the spell for turning into well, you can get the fly wings so all Santa had to do was and skip walking down the mountain. That guy is a genius. He's such a genius. Santa waits for the feather on this screen and, after a few cycles, you can't see the eagle flying because After the boat wait, he uses the magic map instead of relying on Now, there is a trade off for turning into to skip the mountain path earlier. the essence has a limited number of uses, to speed up the walk from the since Santa Claus used at the beginning of the game, he has to walk down but, with some well-placed zips, this was the rest of the run was far from perfect. one trip over the cat, double falling off a cliff, typos all over the but Santa was still skilled enough two minutes faster than And if that wasn't enough, you won't believe what For years, speedrunners at the beginning for that's because Manannan and will But. After each screen transition, it takes eight seconds for so if you can type fast enough, and it's possible to skip helpfully, there are a few screens still, that didn't make the task before I mean that's a huge save. I mean high risk high reward. if you dawdle, if you mess RIP run but, geez, nice. At first, I wasn't even sure there are a few areas where eight it made the eagle feather RNG even worse. because you don't just need the drop it in the right place, but ho-ho-ho, but now you need a fast In this run, Santa has the eagle feather in on the in-game timer. he gets zapped once sorry you had to see that Kenny, but the rest of the early Santa Claus boards the right around the time that previous runners were first making their Santa chooses to stay at the bottom of the for most of the 14 minute voyage, but this is mostly personal preference. partly it's to get my give my hands time to stop shaking. quick eagle others are so your heart will need The run requires the most out of any it's not that long, Ho-ho-ho! At 16 minutes, Land-ho comes at 20:14. his initial rock luck is excellent, and his luck at the dragon isn't bad with the new strat of skipping Santa had smashed all expectations, taking the record from It must have been Okay, looks like our If you want to see me waste more money please interact with the video in and while you do that, I'm just going to set up some text Run out of stamina, my hands we're shaking from exhaustion which resulted in a very and an unusual Manannan zap. Health and endurance permitting, the time like 21:20 but I need to take That good break On February 12, 2021, watching Santa's early game, it's amazing to see how far the speed and accuracy it Santa Claus gets and waits. A third cycle feather. not quite as good as his previous he gets a third cycle but overall, his typing is faster, and even with getting a few which is another bit of RNG by the way, he's on the boat at 5:33, when I asked Santa what he did to pass his answer was surprisingly simple. I'll just lie down on the get some rest before I can only imagine how waiting for &quot;land-ho&quot;, and Two rock rubs to he loses a tiny bit of time having to walk taking him even farther away. Santa shows excellent control he gets to the right screen here in four and quickly kills the dragon. All that's left to do I felt happy and relieved my head into the eagle feather RNG. Although the raw and has some it was still a time I I'm less happy with it now There's still room So, that's where the and, despite all that I was surprised to learn that the runners still recommend this it can honestly be fun. Just uh, find something fun Keep yourself entertained and don't burn out on it. I want to encourage new players I'd still say it's the softest So if you want to be the next King's but I wouldn't recommend speed heart condition. And for people with all sorts of hearts, at least The highlight of the Kenny for me. my favorite part of the game. Just looks like such a happy dog like animates his Makes me happy. If you'd like to see I can recommend my &quot;History that run has a lot of glitches, and a lot I want to thank my patrons at this time, consider checking out my Patreon page. that's it for now, thank you for watching,