- Good morning. - Hey, how it's going? - He's in there. - All right. Thank you. - It's a little dramatic. Good morning. How are you? - How are you? Thank you for making time. - Kmele. - Kmele. - Kmele, yes. - Nice to meet you, sir. What are we listening to? - Stravinsky. - Godfrey Reggio is a Now that sounds like hyperbole, but you'd be hard-pressed to think of anyone else who'd made to social worker to His first film, &quot;Koyaanisqatsi&quot; exploring the collision of urban life and technology versus the environment- all without a single word of dialogue. - You have to tell me what you want to do. - Well, I'd love for you to just show us around. Tell us a little bit about the space. - I'll do my best. - While making this of time looking at rules, that govern the Universe and complex systems that give But there is also something who write their own rules, who make meaning through and whose ethos informs not but their very approach to life. - So everything in here looks like chaos, but I don't believe in chaos at all. I believe in, what's the - In this episode, we'll meet three people who find fulfillment through with the art of being present. Steve Albini. - I'm too busy doing it to worry about somebody or what it's going to mean. - Fred Armisen. - See, now I feel dumb, right? - And Godfrey Reggio. - Meaning is what you do. It's not what you say, it's what you do. - Three madcap visionaries to teach us something about for meaning and purpose in our vast, miraculously incomparably mysterious cosmos. This is &quot;Dispatches from the Well.&quot; There's a sharp contrast of Godfrey Reggio's of walking into this room. His films often give you a single image to sit with and meditate on- but his studio is a bit overwhelming. - What can I tell you? I mean, it's gonna drive you crazy. I can tell you about all of these, but it's the way I work. Everybody works differently, That's what I call my script or mania. You know what that is? - When you have a mania, or you can write everything down. I write everything down. While it looks like I I can tell you every image that's here. My mind works perfectly. My body's a little fucked up. - Okay. Godfrey's path towards filmmaker Born in New Orleans, he left home and joined the Christian And after years of fasting, silence and prayer became a monk. - It was the best thing I ever did. I made final vows, 1965, and in 1968, I was exclaustrated or thrown out of The Order for working with street - In spite of this, Godfrey continued his social work with street gangs here and worked to bring medical care to the area's most impoverished barrios. All of which begs the question: How did you get into filmmaking? - Good question. First of all, I find it most valuable that I didn't go to school for filmmaking. But after working with street gangs so long, my own thought is Of course they're fucked up and but it's the world they So I wanted to make a - I think a lot of your that we find ourselves in and the things that make us who we are. And I'd love to just try so much explain your work, but have some of the framework perhaps that allows us to think about the work you've been doing. - When you do a film without words, it doesn't mean it's not not narrative in a traditional sense. So for me, the narrative, to interpret, is the of Philip Glass. And Philip always has a foreground and the background going at the same time. And when I chose Philip, I knew that, because in my films, and the foreground. The foreground is what's called second It's like that which is incidental, and the foreground is stuff way in the back: character, action, narrative. So I guess what I'm which is most present is least seen. And that's what I wanted how to show that which is all around us and it looks so normal that So that's what the films are about. How do we perceive the normal, Art is about changing the It's not about education, It's about giving you another, of view about something. - At what point is technology something that can put humans out of balance? - I get in more trouble with technology. I not only use technology, I that hasn't been created before. And yet, my films are So technology is the It's not an addendum too. It's not just to make It's that we can't live without it. It's become a necessity with your fingers patterns your brain. Because I'm obsessive, I figured out it's in the range of 40 to 50,000 times, your finger touches your pad - While I consider myself Godfrey is touching on Technological innovations and provided innumerable benefits. And yet many of us feel from one another. For Godfrey, it comes down to interrogating our Because while some habits can lock us into a rut, others can help This studio is a reflection of discipline, daily toil that Godfrey put into a single project, a 52-minute film called - The Dalai Lama was in Albuquerque in '91 giving a big lecture, and after the lecture he said, Young lady jumps up and what's the single most &quot;Routine. Next question.&quot; That's who we are. We become what we do. Let me ask you this: Is it the content of your mind that determines your behavior? Or is it your behavior that determines the content of your mind? It's not a trick question, but it can sound that way. But nine out of eight that determines the content of our mind. What we do every day without I believe in this: &quot;Begin and Meaning discovers you if you Look at it this way, if at a sunset, you wouldn't &quot;I wonder what the sun means tonight.&quot; You would say, &quot;Was it a That's what we're looking for. - Do you create something every day? I remember walking into this space and you're having this - I've never stopped doing And I haven't changed It's not how long we live, how much we control our This is what I do. You - A life conveniently It's my art. And I disguise my body Look at me, look at me, I'm a plane. - This man pretending to He's considered to be one of the most talented record Only, he doesn't consider He sees himself as an audio engineer. - Hi, I'm Steve Albini, and today we're gonna talk about recording acoustic - His meticulous analog recording methods and his principled approach to him working behind the boards on literally thousands of records, including perhaps most In the music industry, record cut of a record's profits, for them to shape a band's recording in the direction of saleability. Steve finds this way of doing business, and famously told Nirvana that he should instead It was this refusal to play by some estimates, left probably Steve is a man with a code, And if you thought he for analog audio into a conversation about interstellar space The Voyager probes shot out in the space and they were gold records. I'm curious about the medium and whether or not you think that the gold - I think that putting phonograph records on the Voyager was genius. Specifically phonograph records, to encounter the Voyager probe out in space is going to that disc has encoded information on it. And the encoding is obvious. It's an analog of a waveform. That's one of the great that the object itself Like if you pick up a book, it's apparent what is going on with the book. It's a written language and so you can tell what you need to do to understand what's in the book. That's not the case with because digitized information that needs a key to comprehend it. So I think it's great that the Voyager records of our technology where we that we would make indecipherable That's why I persist in doing This might sound slightly bigheaded of me, but I feel like my day-to-day job is being a vector of history. Like I'm making recordings and then at some distant time Making a permanent record, I of it very seriously. I'm certain that analog over the scale of centuries. I have no certainty about any digital formats I'm a loyalist to the and some people think that and I try to dispel that very quickly. I'm not making an aesthetic and saying that it is better for aesthetic reasons, or anything like that. My position is that analog of our culture. And in the distant future, I what our music sounded like. I want people to be able to hear what we were like as people. - Where do you think to have a conversation with the future? - I'm not a hundred percent where the steps my brain but when I was a kid in school, I went to Northwestern and part of that education to the stacks in the library and looking through old through the microfilm. And the reason that we know about what happened in various communities was because they had newspapers and those newspapers were Even in marginalized or that was underground culture, stuff that was illegal, like we because it's all been preserved. And I kind of feel like I on culture and art and music. - You have worked with but you're an artist yourself - Yeah, though they seem unrelated to me. Like I'm a musician. I'm in a band. My band plays in shows and tours and makes records and I love being in that band. The hour on stage when we're of my life in that year. But that's not the job that with somebody else's music. Ask yourself if you could do better - How much does your subjective of the music that's being - I feel like the best of the mania of the people Like in service of their their expression, their mayhem. Other people getting into And I know for a fact that when what their audience is gonna like, it weakens everything about the project. People who are deeply rooted, invested in their own personal world will make the most interesting music and the most interesting records. The people who are trying to to like entertain, a lot - There is so many like that we respond to music, that we can have these that we may not even understand, but things that seemingly can or objectively bad in some sort of way. - Well, there is an intensely There's a part of what I do that demands a technical proficiency in getting things right But the emotional effect of music on people is not a technical matter. A friend of mine once told me that the dime bin, you know, the bin at the record store of the records that they couldn't sell is full of records with no mistakes on them. Like every beat absolutely in in pitch, nobody gives a shit And the records that people that unfiltered communion from one person's creative into reality somehow, and that's what people are I genuinely don't care at all and the tempo and the tuning As a listener, as a that stuff matters to me. What key a song is in, I don't care. What I'm trying to do is that there are no technical obstacles or no technical impingements or the artistic side; and that's why I am and I'm required to be careful, and I'm required to be above board, and by the book on what I'm doing, so that everybody in front of the microphones can behave like idiots and jump around and do whatever they want and they don't have to think about it. The comedian, Fred where he was a musicologist. He did a character who was, I want to wanna say his name was Niles Covington. And he would grill people. He would say, &quot;Oh, you like What's your favorite song? 'Yesterday?' What key is 'Yesterday?' Do you know?&quot; And that to me sort of is an that there's like a that can be correct in finger quotes. And then there's just the which is unrelated to that, - It's funny that Steve brought up Fred Armisen, the very next But it's not surprising. The two men are a product and they both seem to embody a bit of its play-by-your-own rules mentality. I spoke with Steve Albini, who's also from Chicago, and he is fascinating. And we had this really about the universe of different things like meaning, purpose, of narrative of one's life. - I can't picture him - Fred Armisen is a versatile American comedian, actor and on popular sketch comedy shows like &quot;Saturday Night His approach to comedy blurs the line between fiction and reality. - 'What did he say? Just look at the floor. But look back at him.' - And in addition to his knack for comedy, Fred is a talented musician and it was drumming in bands that indirectly led to I'm curious about how someone with Fred's penchant for of life makes him think about some of the bigger existential questions that I've been pondering. - Do you think much about kind of the big grand questions of existence? Like the weirdness of consciousness? - I find it easy to Because I think of it a And we're very lucky when we get to meet each other at the same time. The fact that I know Steve, what a miracle that in that to be friends with this person. And that goes for all my friends or people that I've met once- and then it's a wonderful experience. - Does the &quot;why?&quot; of it ever- - No, 'cause the why of And for me, not for everyone else, but for me, I'm like, &quot;It because it doesn't have to be Everything is so arbitrary that it's like, just 'cause you know, and that's fine with me and it makes it actually Then it makes it easier and then also to not worry - But like the absurdist perspective on philosophy is a lot like You know, why is it Nobody really knows. What does it mean? And it may not mean much of anything, but you're here, now and you You should be happy. You should laugh in the of all of the things. - Yeah, it's like, if we and life is just so abstract and weird anyway, I'm like, &quot;Oh, let's just have fun with it.&quot; That seems to be the message. So then great, let's have fun with it all the way through. - When did you arrive at - I can't remember really, but I've always had this feeling because I see it most when I or watch TV and movies and something in there feels like, &quot;Oh, As I walked towards it, It's sort of, I don't think but it was more of a feeling. - In addition to being - Oh, no renowned and very good looking. You know what I mean? - Sure, yes. I'll give you - Prolific and- - But also a known and respected musician, but I don't know how you made the jump from being a percussionist to becoming this renowned comedian. - I was in a band. 'Hello, thanks for coming out tonight. We're Trenchmouth from Chicago. The first song goes like this.' And I became interested in video cameras. I was like, &quot;I like that.&quot; Like the idea of like video camera, but not a set, not a comedy. Like it was just like a one person. And one of my first interviews I think in my band, like in the van, we would So I was like, what happens if I start going towards this other thing? It's just something in that zone. Characters, video camera And as I started doing it, I just started getting more comedy jobs. So someone would say, &quot;Do Will you interview this band?&quot; - 'I love your songs. - Okay. You get my approval. That's Right, I don't approve it much. I always say, &quot;I don't What was the other ones? I don't like it.' Then like little by little, I found myself just working in comedy. I just kept saying &quot;yes.&quot; Moved to L.A., started doing standup as like different characters. And then now that I do I could do fake bands - What do you miss most - I miss the constant drumming, the actual physical, every night. You know, for what is it? Half an hour, 40 minutes? Next song. That part of it was the best. Like that focus, like Where do we end this song? Like in your brain, you don't You're just like in your head. So that every night of - How do you deal with - I accept it. Like, acceptance I remember when I was a and I was like, 'I love and I just can't wrap my head around it.' And then Yoko Ono sort of described it. I might be paraphrasing but she tried to think of it Yeah, but you know. - It's very in line with the prescription that the stoics give for - Yeah, in fact, I really celebrate death. I have my funeral all I want it to be like a coffin that's shaped like a And then spooky sounds and organ and like really like a real funeral. Like I put it in writing. I love cemeteries and stuff so much. I gave everyone instructions that I really want my funeral - You know, like even as we're talking, like I find myself how much of this is actually true. - No, it's true. It's true. I have a grave site at and I'm even looking forward But do we know your Is it as absurd? - Well, this is the thing. I mean, I'm 42 years old, I'll So I'm officially I think approaching, if not in firmly mid-life I do think that there's something really profound that you can't change, and really enjoying it and appreciation for just of the things that happen to but especially for the good. I mean, we're all just - But I don't think you're - No? Because I haven't told you - Well, mid-life crisis to like relive something from when you were in your twenties. - Maybe I need a better word for it, but I have a pronounced and a lot of questions about whether or not I'm doing the right things. I've been forced to revisit some stuff. The kind of thing that to read as a younger man. But then when you read it with a couple of years under your belt and some defining experiences, it means something different to you. - Thoreau, there's a beautiful passage: &quot;As the willow has presented itself within the doors of the doorknob. We know yet that the...&quot; - I didn't know where that was going. But Fred, I've enjoyed - Likewise. for the time we've been This has been a unique, unexpected gift, so thank you very much. - Thank you. - It's easy to let by the demands of our everyday lives or sometimes to become a bit obsessed with big, existential questions. But what both of those of the opportunity to be that something Fred, to have an almost innate ability to do. And their example reminds of really embracing the As Fred suggested, it's so that we're all here together. We should probably focus on enjoying that. At this stage of your life, I wonder if you have a specific that you think selfishly, - I don't know. I wouldn't I'd just keep doing it until you can't. I mean, it has to be, you of 'Oh, I must do this,' If it's not fun, it's So you follow your stars and be lucky that you're here to do it. You just don't think about it-that's all. Don't get involved with ego. - So what's the secret there? - The secret is you're willing to express what you actually feel and not what the other That sounds hard to do, but if you're in that modality as it were, and that's the form, you - It feels like a really great last word. - All good. That was excellent. - So let's have a drink! - Sounds good. - It looks chaotic, but it's actually full of complexity and this one here, reduces Well, that's what I tell myself. - Yeah, go ahead and say - I get to clap again? That's my favorite. - How did you get Steve Albini... Steve Albini did not sign one of these. - No, he did not. - That's right. - I used to try to do but he's like, &quot;Not my problem.&quot;