Right about here, in Dallas, Texas, American on November 22, 1963. The accused assassin After being held in custody for less than two days, According to a subsequent investigation, Oswald had fired three rounds Police recovered three shell casings and a But the shooting of Oswald sparked Suspicions that persist to this day to reject the government's conclusion The arguments for and against conspiracy Far too many, in fact, to do Instead, in this video, I want to zoom in Specifically, the events surrounding the What exactly happened from where the shots that killed the President In September of 1963, received a call from There was a potential job opening On September 13, Frazier made ...down to central Dallas. He met with Roy Truly, the superintendent Back in Irving, Frazier lived with his A few houses down the street On October 14, both Randle and Paine had a Paine brought along a friend and Russian immigrant Marina could barely speak any English and partly due to her husband's unemployment. Paine and Marina returned home, and secured a job interview The following morning, and began his first day So an acquaintance with whom had a casual conversation with a neighbor. That neighbor happened to have a brother who This prompted his wife to ask the acquaintance to inquire about any vacancies. The position was not only temporary but only But it gets even more tragic because If Oswald was somehow and the aim of that conspiracy was for him this roundabout sequence of events As the name implies, the Texas School Book Depository For $1.25 an hour, Oswald's job He did so by filling out forms between the upper floors and the first. The building had three elevators, In the northwest corner, one stairway provided access to all seven floors. A small passenger elevator near the front while stories one and two Lacking a driver's license, to carpool between Irving and Dallas He spent workdays while spending the weekends But on Thursday morning, November 21, Oswald decided to deviate from this routine. Frazier drove Oswald back to Irving, at the household of Ruth Paine. Both Paine and Marina were surprised They assumed he'd come due to an argument they The next day, Oswald said goodbye to his wife Atop a dresser in the bedroom, Oswald was next seen walking down the street He was soon joined by Frazier, and the two of them Not only was Oswald carrying a large package, They arrived in Dallas Typically, they would walk together But on this particular Friday, Oswald grabbed Working on the ground floor in view of the Frazier and Dougherty are the only two people Frazier says he was carrying a package. Dougherty says he was not. Contradictions like this one will become a We'll take a closer look at the missing let's stay with Oswald. As the morning progressed, Roy Truly described him as an above-average In fact, he was a bit of But there were exceptions to his reticence, James Jarman was when he observed Oswald It's a brief yet fascinating moment. It almost seems as though Oswald had no idea This was indeed the case Jarman himself had only been made aware of There's no doubt that Oswald knew the President but whether he knew the route of the motorcade The route of the motorcade had only and hinged upon its destination. Kennedy was supposed to attend a banquet in It came down to two options. The Trade Mart northwest of downtown One of the more vocal proponents of the Trade Mart and, after much back and forth, Had the Women's Building been selected, the east on Main Street, significantly further Not to mention that First Lady Jacqueline would have been seated The selection of the Trade Mart meant that the and make these turns through Dealey Plaza Now, these turns could still have been avoided and not taken the freeway. But since the freeway was it was the more attractive choice. All of that is to say, was largely dependent It might therefore be tempting but it should be noted that he rode in the and suffered grave injuries during the shooting. Not only that but Connally was and favored a more direct route A brief trip that would've bypassed He was unfortunately who wanted to see and be seen Okay, so, all of that But, as far as the public was aware, As late as November 15, the Dallas Morning News But, the very next day, While the precise route, was not officially disclosed someone familiar with Dallas could have That is to say, the earliest point could have deduced that Kennedy would be was November 16, There's a good chance that Oswald saw these reading political columns Furthermore, we know from other aspects of [OSWALD] And also other philosophers. [INTERVIEWER] I think you did admit on an earlier radio [OSWALD] that is correct. But that does not mean, however, [INTERVIEWER] [OSWALD] Several American parties and several countries Certain countries have such as Great Britain These then are the differences and countries which adhere Conversely, a lack of interest one of Oswald's colleagues So while it's understandable for someone apolitical it makes far less sense We'll never know what Oswald was thinking shortly before the assassination. But it is worth repeating, though, That's a full month before the let alone announced to the public. On the morning of November 22, had been assigned to install a new plywood floor Every once in a while, they would Shortly before noon, it was time for lunch. For a bit of fun, they decided to race the As they began descending, they observed Oswald He shouted for them to stop or to close the Charles Givens then realized he'd forgotten About to return to ground level, And with that, Givens became known to have seen Oswald At least, that's the official story. The encounter was fixed at 11:55 AM, But other employees claimed to have around the same time Givens himself provided conflicting accounts. But I'm getting ahead of myself. This encounter notwithstanding, Givens was Shortly after Givens had left, Bonnie Williams He sat down, right about here, The southeast corner is the location from are believed to have been fired. The so-called Sniper's Nest. Williams says he was alone but admits his Meanwhile, down by the main entrance, someone This individual was never identified known to have entered the After finishing his lunch Bonnie Williams heard the voices emanating from the floor below. Feeling a bit lonely, Williams went down to The exact time of Williams' but it was likely no more than On the grounds below, a sea of spectators Every once in a while, one of them would Indeed Jarman, Williams, and Norman leaning out the far east But movement could also be seen A floor that, by all accounts, Awaiting the motorcade by the east curb of named Arnold and Barbara Rowland. Some 15 minutes before the shooting, in the westernmost window The man was holding a rifle. His gaze locked at Houston. Despite standing a few meters away from an If Rowland's recollection is accurate, it stands in direct conflict who claimed to have eaten lunch on Williams neither saw nor heard anyone down to the southwest corner of the building A few minutes later, a different spectator pacing to and fro the easternmost At 12:30 PM, the Presidential Limousine and began driving north on Houston. As the car made a sharp left turn at Elm, glanced up at the Book Depository Few realized what had happened. Was it a firecracker, backfiring motorcycle, People near the Rowlands even started laughing. Perhaps feeling a bit foolish for being frightened Standing by the northwest corner of He thought the explosion Sure enough, on one of the upper floors, At that moment, a second explosion Worrell and Euins witnessed the in concurrence with the sound. Brennan had yet to realize what was happening. He thought a firecracker had been He looked up, and the man he'd was now aiming down the sights of a rifle. Brennan could only recall but his testimony implies He confusingly said he yet denied seeing In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, as the gunman cautiously Neither Euins nor Worrell and could thus offer little to no Arnold was quite some distance away of the man he'd seen about A description that was quite similar who got the best look at the gunman. Taken together, these accounts on the sixth floor of the Book Depository and firing at the President But other accounts As previously mentioned, Arnold Rowland in the westernmost window But as late as 5 minutes before the shooting, leaning out the easternmost He might have confused where James Jarman, Bonnie Williams, and In fact, they were the only black employees from a floor above the first. Except, they could hardly be But, then, take a listen to this. This question was then repeated at which point, his answer So, in the span of a few minutes, Arnold to describing the man's complexion, hair, clothing, age, As leading as that line of questioning was, Barbara was not alone Officials at two separate high schools attended not to trust everything he says. He was characterized as someone who would and &quot;not tell the truth regarding any matter&quot;. Indeed, Rowland lied or exaggerated Another witness who claimed to have seen a Shortly before the arrival of the motorcade, in one of these windows She explicitly ruled out the sixth. It should be noted, however, that, this window was closed while this one, as you already know, was occupied In any case, the light-haired man seen by and standing beside him was Much like Arnold Rowland, Walther assumed and refrained from telling the police. In fact, there's no evidence she told Not even the colleague with whom In Walther's defense, two other with light or light-brown hair Except, they never saw a weapon Disagreements regarding due to the ground floor Another source of confusion was the distinct and the ones below. Not only that, but multiple witnesses as the second floor from the top. But in the chaos that ensued, it seems the Amos Euins is another curious witness because, he did see the top of his head... ...somehow. Oswald did not have a bald spot. He was thinning a bit in the front But the strength of Euins's account is much of anything else. Long after the assassination, a journalist working for the Dallas Morning News Powell had supposedly seen two men fiddling He described their complexion as darker Once again, one has to wonder if he confused on the floor below. I mean, after 15 years of silence, there's no telling A good example of such A few minutes before the shooting, when he spotted a man on the all the way over here. The man was white and wore a In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, and caught sight of what he believed to be He made a left turn right about here before By 1969, however, Carr's story The man with a sportcoat had now been After the shooting, Mr. Sportcoat had accompanied by two other men. They, too, had been picked up by a separate It's unclear how Carr is considering what he In Carr's defense, emerge from the rear entrance about three minutes This man also wore a sportcoat Except, the man seen by Carr while the man seen by Worrell Besides, anyone connected with the shooting, would surely have headed north, As if that was not enough, two other witnesses, stood roughly here for Both of them paid special attention Unfortunately, conflicting accounts were not Among the hundreds of witnesses in the vicinity as the number and origin of the gunshots. [JAY WATSON] [WILLIAM NEWMAN] [JAY WATSON] [WILLIAM NEWMAN] There may have been. We hit- My family hit the ground I just couldn't- I'm not certain of that. [JAY WATSON] I said to Jerry after the second shot, No one knows exactly how many spectators were Well over two hundred by a combination of Attempts have been made to consolidate the various that the majority of witnesses What's a bit less clear The gunman was either placed in the vicinity or an area west of the building, But, as you can see from these pie charts, is highly susceptible to bias. It's a surprisingly subjective exercise that Nevertheless, there were a substantial number located roughly here, and many of them were To give you some examples, Ochus Campbell was standing near the yet believed the shots had Meanwhile, Marilyn Sitzman yet believed the shots Standing beside Campbell who believed the shots had Standing by the curb in front of Sitzman who believed the shots One might therefore conclude that there must One in the Book Depository Indeed, countless authors and even a congressional Now, the scope of this video is not nearly any conclusions regarding But I do wanna leave you with this. You might have seen these Well, that's how many witnesses heard gunshots That is to say, next to no one did. All the shots came either from Ochus Campbell was far from by the pronounced echoes This auditory illusion was not a fluke. Not only did the buildings surrounding but even experienced hunters can struggle to pinpoint Here's a quote from a book on that very topic Employees in the Book Depository were than the spectators outside. To give you some examples. On the first floor, Eddie Piper heard three shots On the third floor, Edna Case and Meanwhile, Steven Wilson, Came from the west. On the fourth floor: Elise Dorman. Multiple shots. Victoria Adams. Mary Hollies. But some employees but could literally feel the Much like Geneva Hine Bonnie Williams could feel It sounded to Williams as though the shots His colleague, James Jarman, initially thought but then changed his mind Harold Norman, meanwhile, The explosions shook the building was dislodged from the ledge above Meanwhile, spectators on the streets below looking up at the sixth floor. Frightened and somewhat entranced the three men remained on Meanwhile, the apparent assassin upstairs When the shooting began, had just made a right turn Baker recognized the explosions as gunfire fluttering above Baker made a split-second decision Once inside, he was greeted by Roy Truly. Truly directed Baker to the elevators, He pressed the button while shouting up the elevator No response. Instead, they began running up the stairs. The man whom Baker and Truly was none other The encounter was brief, Oswald appeared calm and failed to evoke suspicion, and proceeded up the stairs. They spent some time searching the roof Down by the main entrance, Jearaldean Reid She decided to return to her office on the Here, about two minutes after the shooting, to have seen Oswald Oswald is then presumed to have taken the encountered someone There are at least two candidates but Oswald seems to have pointed before blending into the chaos outside. He was next observed boarding a bus Nearly four months after the assassination, reconstruction of the shooting The experiment was repeated twice. On the first attempt, it took them 1 minute Then, 1 minute and 15 seconds. These time trials were primarily conducted fired the shots from the sixth floor in time for his encounter After all, if there wasn't enough time, A bunch of different routes were tested and while Oswald could theoretically have taken in practice, there wasn't enough time. The only other means of descent was the stairway. A stand-in for the gunman trotted down in 1 minute and 18 seconds. Then, at a slightly faster pace, There was just enough time. It's therefore possible that Oswald perhaps upon hearing Truly and attempted to hide in the lunchroom But it's not quite that simple because Oswald to escape the building. As previously mentioned, from an office on the fourth floor Within 30 seconds of the shooting, along with her colleague Sandra Styles. There are two significant The first being that she and Styles within 30 seconds of the shooting This would place them in descending from the sixth floor But, okay, perhaps Oswald and his footsteps were This would mean that Styles mere seconds ahead reached the ground floor mere seconds ahead before encountering William Shelley But this is when problem number two When the President was shot, Shelley and Lovelady They spent several minutes roaming about outside And that's the problem. How did Styles and Adams encounter Shelley if it took them several minutes Shelley could recall no such incident. Presuming that Lovelady was correct it's possible their encounter with rather than seconds after the shooting. After all, Adams could have been mistaken. This scenario implies that Truly and Baker went upstairs, and then, several minutes later, But it's not quite that simple. Watching the motorcade alongside Styles and Not only does this account meaning they left within but it implies that Garner was in a position to In spite of this, Garner made no mention of between Styles and Adams' departure What makes this conflict so difficult to resolve were called to testify. We have but a few brief statements All we know about Sandra Styles is that she Did it happen within seconds of the shooting? We don't know. Did she see or hear anyone else We don't know. Did she encounter Shelley and Lovelady We don't know. Authorities appear to have presumed Adams who could have easily refuted A simple reenactment like could have gone a long way But that never happened. Many decades after the assassination, Sandra Styles, Dorothy Garner, Styles confirmed that she and Adams left the but she doesn't explicitly say they left In any case, as they &quot;moved quickly down the stairs&quot;, Garner confirmed she never despite seeing Truly and Baker Adams went a bit further and accused Sandra Styles apparently told The only black employees who could have were Carl Jones, Roy Lewis, What you see here are their approximate but, during the seconds and minutes that followed, to the stairs in the back. As soon as the shooting began, Piper crossed He remained in roughly this location running up the stairs. Remember James Romack and George Rackley? I mean, I wouldn't blame you if you don't. There's like a hundred different But they were the ones who failed to spot via the rear entrance for Well, the thing is, according to both Styles via the rear entrance So if Romack and Rackley are to be believed, must have taken place minutes Not only that but when Sandra Styles was contacted great uncertainty regarding the stairwell have occurred &quot;a couple of minutes&quot; I don't know what to make of all this. The conspiracy crowd will, of course, while those who support the official narrative But, ultimately, we don't know It's difficult enough to pin down Once you get down to seconds, The time trials by Truly and Baker gives us They could've easily been So, too, could've Shelley, Lovelady, I must also mention that we don't know beyond this crude schematic. If the other floors are any indication, much and tall stacks of boxes. This is significant because Dorothy Garner enter the stairway. She only heard footsteps of what she presumed Following a quick sweep of the roof, returned to the ground floor Oswald was not the only absentee, but he was had left the building after the shooting. Meanwhile, on the sixth floor, a stack of attracted the attention Two windows west of the Sniper's Nest, and some chicken bones. Leftovers from the lunch eaten by Bonnie Williams But according to some officers, were also found in the Sniper's Nest. In spite of this, no such items Apart from the sack of chicken bones found being recovered from anywhere But it wasn't just the chicken bones. There were similar disagreements According to Mooney, Dallas Police Captain Mooney did not explicitly state that Captain Fritz moved at least one of the According to Fritz, Amidst the swarm of officers was a lone journalist Alyea was equipped with a camera and actually About three decades later, that were largely consistent with While these alleged portions of preservation took a backseat while Portions of the film were carelessly chopped-up are all that remains today. In any case, after supposedly filming the Alyea recalled how they were To counterbalance these allegations of foul those who found nothing amiss Even Mooney sort of agreed immediately after explaining In the testimony we heard a few minutes ago, He then examined this one, taken from Now, these two are just differently cropped That doesn't really gel picked up and haphazardly as Thomas Alyea While there are question marks surrounding there can be no doubt that were moved Several minutes after the a bolt-action rifle was found Now, there was some initial confusion Some thought it looked like a Mauser it was identified as an Italian Carcano. The officer who misidentified the rifle later However, over a decade a former Deputy Sheriff by the name of Roger Craig stamped right on the barrel of the rifle. To some, this is evidence that a Mauser was, before being swapped for a Carcano. But Craig was the only person did so many years after the assassination, There were no reports of a Mauser Besides, the only rifle seen in the film taken Unique markings on the cartridge cases would from which all three had been fired. Before the day was over, the rifle had been The company had sold the rifle and shipped it to a Post Office Box Alek James Hidell was a pseudonym So there was now a direct link Not only that, but Oswald's prints were lifted Apart from the spent shells and the rifle, authorities The bag was alleged to have been found here, in all the crime scene photographs. Detective Robert Studebaker, who'd been working neglected to explain why he never In Studebaker's defense, no one was on the Assassin? Sure. Rifle? Casings? Absolutely. But some debris in a It wasn't until the bag was picked up and Now, as you may recall, Wesley Frazier drove to pick up some curtain rods. The following morning, Oswald by both Frazier According to Frazier, Oswald told him the which he then brought back to Dallas. But you may also recall that Jack Dougherty The thing is, Dougherty When questioned by the FBI and Secret Service, He required assistance &quot;considerable difficulty in coordinating While Dougherty denied having such issues, While Dougherty insisted that Oswald had it turned out that this certitude Given that Frazier had eyes on Oswald for suggests he carried a package to work A far more contentious question is whether was the same as the brown paper bag According to both Randle and Frazier, the only two witnesses the answer was a definite no. Their main source of contention was shorter than the brown paper bag. The bag was just long enough to store so if the package carried by Oswald was much shorter, Except, Randle saw it briefly while Frazier never paid it much attention. In fact, the length of the package as his lack of attention to it. The tape and paper with which matched the tape and paper on the first floor of the Book Depository. Not only that but a fingerprint and palmprint were also found on the bag. In spite of all this, some authors refuse and the package carried by Oswald Instead, the argument tends to be that the in an effort to frame Oswald. But you then have to square that against no Oswald already having curtains Him failing to obtain permission Him supposedly being in such urgent had to return to Irving on Thursday Him then neglecting to mention anything upon his arrival. And that's despite the fact that Paine actually The same garage Around the time of the rifle's discovery on Captain William Fritz Fritz immediately left the building After escaping the Book Depository, But the assassination ground traffic to a halt, After returning to his rooming house in Oak Cliff, Oswald changed his clothes, Police Patrolman J.D. Tippit encountered a bit further south, right about here. As soon as Tippit stepped and fired four shots Oswald was then caught sneaking into a nearby A large contingent of officers They surrounded the building, switched on Flanked by officers, Oswald drew a gun, But this time, he was and taken to police headquarters Over the next two days, Lee Harvey Oswald was interrogated by FBI, Secret Service, None of it was recorded. So no one knows exactly what Instead, we have to settle for the cliff notes, [REPORTER] [OSWALD] [REPORTER] who said he did Oswald vehemently denied any Instead, he claimed to have on the first floor One of them was a black coworker The other was James Jarman. But according to another interrogator, Oswald's claim was not to have eaten lunch but merely that he saw them pass through So, according to this version of events, Oswald's one whose name he could not recall, together or separately, Whether Oswald claimed to have eaten lunch it makes no difference because Instead, James Jarman had last sometime between William Shelley and Eddie Piper had last seen At which time, Oswald had told Piper that he was Then there's the account of Charles Givens. You may recall that Givens is officially recognized known to have seen Oswald Their encounter was fixed at 11:55 AM and is But prior to relating this version of events, that he saw Oswald A statement which he Either way, Oswald being on the first floor to prevent him from being Unless Carolyn Arnold is to be believed. So, that would be about here. In a subsequent statement, Arnold claimed Thereby pushing the time of her potential as close as 5 minutes Putting aside the fact that her observation and that she could not Arnold herself would later Instead, Arnold claimed that in the second-floor lunchroom. The problem with both none of her colleagues Whether it was the first or second floor, to everyone but Arnold. Besides, it took Arnold 15 years to relate Not ideal for such a time-sensitive issue. That being said, depending on what there are ways to interpret what so that it aligns with Take this one, for instance. This claim is interesting because, it appeared to be supported But this figure was quickly A man who bore such a that, when footage of Oswald Lovelady's stepchildren Now, speaking only for myself here, really? Am I missing something here because Anyway, in recent years, another such figure, has, once again, Because this smudge of a person some believe it, therefore, On the other hand, Oswald when he spoke with Not to mention that his presence all those who did Now, there's one final account of Oswald's It stands out because it really skirts If this is an accurate recollection he placed himself on a floor above While he neglected to mention which floor, and an unnamed black coworker, to the one described by Charles Givens. This would mean that Oswald, placed himself on the After that horribly confusing mishmash Well, Oswald appears to have contradicted It's also possible that what he said was by the interrogation participants. As mentioned at the beginning of all this, This is all based on second-hand accounts, after the assassination. But the main takeaway has to be With the exception of Carolyn Arnold, no one laid eyes on Oswald between At least, no one inside the Book Depository. Among those who witnessed Howard Brennan was the only one At least, that's what he stated initially. Within a few hours of the shooting, Brennan was then brought down to the basement Among them was Oswald. So, that's not ideal. While Brennan did pick Oswald from a lineup, But, if Brennan is to be believed, but merely an act So, according to Brennan, within he'd become concerned that it was the He feared that, should he attempt to identify and thereby endanger his family. So when Brennan was brought he feigned uncertainty At least, so he claimed. I'll leave it up to you to decide whether On Sunday morning, November 24, from the city to the county jail. Reporting from outside the police station, jinx the whole shebang. [REPORTER] that will carry Lee Harold Oswald from the downtown to the Dallas County Strict security precautions have been and have been even increased this morning may attempt to take the life of the man accused [REPORTER] Lee Oswald ha been shot! [CBS NEWS ANCHOR WALTER CRONKITE] said that the single shot could scarcely than that shot did It penetrated his spleen, his pancreas, [DALLAS CHIEF OF POLICE JESSE CURRY] [REPORTER] [CURRY] We have arrested the man. [REPORTER] [CURRY] ...Rubenstein, I believe. He goes by the name of Jack Ruby. That's all I have to say. Throughout this video, we've encountered but also themselves. Central to many arguments of conspiracy is by the conspirators To give you an example, Charles Givens initially claimed Then he denied ever saying that and claimed to have Some authors have found this and suspect that Givens was coerced In support of that conclusion, in which Dallas Police Lieutenant Jack Revill About two months later, He changed his story. But let's have a think about this. According to this interpretation of events, to dictate Givens's testimony. They could have told him what to say or, You may recall that that is precisely and Carolyn Arnold implied That someone had put words in their mouth Okay, so wielding that near-limitless power, to put in the mouth of Givens? Well, they supposedly invented a away from the Sniper's Nest, I guess, or even, &quot;I saw Oswald carrying a was a bit too on the nose? The same is of course true of every Apart from the doubtful no one could actually place Oswald in I really cannot stress this enough. It apparently did not occur to the unambiguously identify Better yet, take a photograph. For all this talk of witness coercion that seems like a bit of an oversight. What I'm trying to illustrate is that it's surprisingly an unfounded allegation there, and sprinkle and you'll end up with a conspiracy theory that, Whether it's organized crime, a foreign there's enough material here to make a compelling Something upon which many authors, filmmakers, I don't know if all of them are right or wrong. This video clearly doesn't cover enough But to ascribe a conspiratorial motive seems irresponsibly black-and-white A person acting in a way that's does not prove they colluded in a plot to Such thrilling leaps of conspiracy but that doesn't make them true. Remember Thomas Alyea? He was the journalist filming on the sixth Decades later, Alyea began tampering with the evidence, The veracity of those allegations aside, is that he never believed Alyea had a refreshingly nuanced take on the evidence of corruption is not Sloppy police work neither began nor ended people lie for all sorts of reasons. Loyalty, embarrassment, fear, There's no shortage of motivations Besides, what kind of clueless to casually film Something I found myself doing a lot while to view the assassination from the You could, for instance, question the logic A window in which he ran by other workers inside the building. A window in which he could spotted by spectators A window from which his view ...by a tree. You could also question the logic to shoot at a moving Especially when that person had a tendency If Oswald acted alone and the these less-than-ideal choices He found himself at the right place at the and used the only building But for a group of conspirators to requires a bit more ingenuity to explain. He was a patsy, he was supposed to get caught, you know the drill. But there's so much of that in this case. So much had to go just right for a conspiracy From the roundabout process by which to the selection of the motorcade route. From Oswald's narrow escape to him being given multiple From the supposed tampering, to dozens of expert witnesses being Not only would a plan as complex and prolonged with countless points of failure but it seems, Yes, Kennedy was the President of the United States He was rather famous for abandoning his In fact, that's precisely what he did on [REPORTER] But this is the moment where the Secret Service They say, &quot;When the President stops because that is when the possibility This was one of those impromptu moments for So many times, you have heard that the without the President, that, suddenly, and decided to shake hands You could say, perhaps, that this is more because it has been done As this news correspondent was alluding to, all it takes is one person Not unlike the shooting of Oswald. Think about that the next time you watch a implicating members of the Secret Service, lawyers, doctors, investigators, Think about how all these alleged co-conspirators Just one person in a crowd whose guilt is By roping in this ensemble cast of characters, it I like to imagine a conference room upon which they've All the people they need to manipulate. All the evidence they have to fabricate. The entire patchwork of needless risk-taking And they looked at that &quot;Yep, that's a solid plan.&quot; But, even then... Even if we assume the conspirators didn't made it up as they went along, that doesn't Something that would have taken a lot of So, I guess, you somehow that they were clueless enough yet clever enough And therefore, there was no conspiracy! No, I don't believe any of these arguments make it They just make it a bit more difficult to I mean, if there was an argument with I would not be the first and a continent removed I can guarantee you that much. Also, the word conspiracy doesn't even necessarily in the planning and execution For instance, there's what some refer This typically means that there by the concealment of complicity Instead, Oswald did act alone behind the suppression of evidence. A common one being that federal by concealing or downplaying to prevent the assassination. I mean, a known Communist with ties to Russia by assassinating the Commander-in-Chief at the height of the Cold War Point being that there are countless in a case as vast as this one. I am not exaggerating when I say that you and still have plenty After all, the Texas School Book Depository Thanks for watching. Support me on Patreon if you want to. Okay, bye.