(ethereal music) - [Voiceover] Oceans cover of the earth's surface. They supply oxygen and sustenance. Without them, there'd be no life on Earth. Yet, here in the place life began, lie immense quantities A material used once and discarded. A material that never goes away. Plastic. Six million metric tons end about as much as the world's Most of it is flushed into the oceans via storm sewers and rivers. Plastic usually doesn't sink. It is lighter than water. And it is not biodegradable. Paper breaks down after a month. Wood and cans can take centuries, but, in saltwater, they And what about plastic? Plastic doesn't decompose, into billions and billions of tiny pieces, which currents carry to the remote corners of the world's oceans. What does this foreign matter What effect do millions on this fragile ecosystem? Just north of the equator lies Big Island, the most It is a paradise for vacationers, but, it's idyllic looks can be deceiving. The island has a problem. It's a problem that oceanographer, Nikolai Maximenko has Again and again, his work a beach on the island's southern coast. Here in a cove, at the great quantities of marine ever since people can remember. The locals call it &quot;Junk Beach.&quot; In earlier times, the beach was known for the giant logs that washed ashore. Logs not native to the island. They had drifted across and mysteriously wound up here. Today, it's happening with plastic. Junk Beach is literally - This one is cones for They all come from US Nowhere else but in the So, they're making like, And these tubes are oyster spacer tubes. And they're used in Asia for aquaculture. - [Voiceover] In Kamilo, what society along the carelessly throw away. But, why here? Nikolai Maximenko blames it on a gyre, a large system of rotating ocean currents. Some 12,000 kilometers away, near Valdivia on Chile's southern coast, in a southern estuary. Preparations are underway The crew plans to sail on a 22-meter boat. They are investigating the same phenomenon Nikolai Maximenko studies the accumulation of marine plastic. Marcus Erickson heads the expedition. The oceanographer and has been traveling the trying to raise people's awareness about plastic pollution - I think my interest might go back when I had a chance to visit Midway Atoll. I was picking up cigarette and random pieces of out of their chests of these Now, I couldn't say they but, it occurred to me on this island that's in halfway between Japan and Los Angeles. It's as far from the mainland and yet, I could recogize all this trash, things that I use myself was now entering the bodies - [Voiceover] Scientists from all over the world are taking part in a three-week voyage on the Sea Dragon. The destination, Easter Island, one of the most remote places on Earth. It's a pioneering expedition. No one has ever before investigated the South Pacific for The crew is planning to collect samples and test them in a lab in California. Marcus Eriksen believes that far away in the middle of the ocean lies a giant vortex of plastic garbage. Researchers have made some but, have yet to find concrete - Our trip now will take us from Valdivia, sort of zigzagging through over to Easter Island. So, we get a good representative sample of the sea surface in this gyre. We don't know what the west coasts of South New Zealand, Australia are contributing to the South Pacific gyre. So, we really don't know. - [Voiceover] It's a To reach Easter Island, must travel 3,000 nautical during which time, they'll (dramatic music) And they hope to find nothing but the endless expanse of the sea. (waves crashing) The mountains of garbage indicate a high plastic Maximenko works like an archaeologist. Through his excavations, when the trash washed ashore and how much. - Like this (indistinct) whatever that is, I mean get that in there. - I think it's like, hair, careful. We assume that rocks with plastic from the ocean. And we suggest that maybe these rocks, they can bury and preserve older places. - [Voiceover] Over the of plastic have accumulated Researchers have been trying to identify the plastic's dispersal patterns. They suspect a complex system - Plastic is carried by ocean currents, and plastic is kind of a unique tracer because it lives long. &quot;Lives long&quot; means that it has time to forget where does it come from. So, it starts following of ocean currents, and it ends in some particular areas, - [Voiceover] Maximenko's sent via satellite from 15,000 buoys, distributed throughout According to his data, in giant rotating paths. - Any floating matter, it moves towards mid-latitudes in any ocean. And it collects in relatively small areas, now called (indistinct). - [Voiceover] The mysterious begins on the mainland. Scientists estimate that of plastic enter the oceans every day. They believe that much of it Gravity, winds, and the earth's rotation are responsible for the Five so-called &quot;trash vortices&quot; But, only the North Atlantic have been explored so far. No one yet knows whether the gyres south of the equator are full of plastic. (light, mid-tempo music) A week later, and the Sea Dragon is hundreds of miles from the mainland. The crew has set course of the South Pacific's garbage patch. - [Marcus] Using the same that predicts that the It's a large patch. - [Voiceover] Eriksen plans to use trawls, nets towed through the water's surface, to comb the seas for plastic. - [Marcus] We number them We've done one trawl. We're approaching the second site. And every 60 miles, we'll trawl. - [Voiceover] The crew uses named for it's resemblance Moving through the water's the trawl catches everything in its path. - Eight, seven, six, five, four. - Four, four, three, two, six, six. - Two, six, six? - [Voiceover] The trawl for exactly one hour per sample. By measuring the distance the trawl covers and the number of plastic scientists will then calculate the amount of plastic in the water. - We trawled for an and we found what appears It is not much in here, - [Voiceover] Good news, no plastic. The water seems clean, carefully preserve the net's - That looks a lot like my toothbrush. (laughter) - [Voiceover] I have no honestly. - [Anna] You can have it back. Am I done? - [Voiceover] Scientists examine the samples for tiny particles, too small to be seen with the naked eye. Eriken re-examines the ocean current model that Nikolai Maximenko used of a garbage patch in the South Pacific. The samples will prove - Still on the edge of not quite in it yet. Our trawls are producing A few little fragments here there, but, we're, like I said not We have another 1,000 miles ahead of us before we get to the exact But, this is great news, I - [Voiceover] So, have the oceans of the southern hemisphere been spared? Marcus Eriksen isn't getting his hopes up. (slow, dramatic music) Thousands of kilometers on the Dutch island of Texel, an ornithologist and Marine biologist has accidentally stumbled on another way that plastic harms the Marine environment. (birds squawking) - The critical point for me to say, &quot;Well, this is too bad, The cleanest place on you find in the Antarctic - [Voiceover] For 20 has been examining birds' He is still shocked at what he finds. This bird, known as a Van Franeker believes that - Almost every fulmar in the North Sea has plastic in the stomach. The bad areas in the North Sea, the fulmars have about .6 grams and that would be about this quantity. So, imagine the size of a human person, you would have to multiply that by 100. And so, then, you get to a - [Voiceover] Van Franeker carries an average of 31 plastic (suspenseful music) In human terms, this translates into more than 3,000 particles. Most birds use their eyes to find food. From the air, plastic particles are hard to differentiate from natural prey. Color and form are too much alike. Van Franeker's findings leave no doubt. - Where currents come most plastics will float and they will stay in this frontal area. So, in cases like that, plastics and food will be more abundant - [Voiceover] Researchers have catalogued the stomach contents of dead fulmars from all over the world. These contents have become a widely accepted indicator When a bird's stomach contains the ocean is considered clean. (light, mid-tempo music) One can only imagine what for animals in places like Kamilo Beach. - There are some red objects on the beach, especially larger ones. But, if you see in this a lot of whites and blues and greens which are the color of the ocean. These are the colors that have And the things like reds and purples that you don't see as frequently might have been selected out and they've been eaten by birds and fish, which we know eat plastic. (light mid-tempo music) - [Voiceover] Tokyo, at the other end of the Pacific. Nowhere else in the world as widespread as in Japan. The large quantities of plastic into the ocean via rivers and drainpipes have confronted scientists The chemist, Katsuhiko Initially, he studied plastic waste into energy. He started to investigate the oceans after a journalist asked Is plastic really as clean (Katsuhiko speaks Japanese) - [Voiceover] I walked along to find them filled with plastic debris. The only thing I could think was this could become a serious problem. When I began sampling the water, I had no idea what I find. The ocean is so large, - [Voiceover] Saido was proven wrong. Every beach and every ocean he tested turned up toxic substances. One was BPA, the synthetic whose concentrations were alarmingly high. The use of BPA in plastics sparked international concern Saido was dumbfounded. Where did these toxic What was plastic's role? His experiments revealed in plastic begin to break as low as 30 degrees Celsius. When this happens, poisonous additives such as BPA are released (Katsuhiko speaks Japanese) - [Voiceover] Scientists clean, lightweight, and indestructible. They believed it underwent In our research, we discovered that when plastic breaks down, it releases its basic building These can easily enter and pass directly to organisms. - [Voiceover] The idea that plastic is clean and safe is a myth. Plastic leaves chemical (birds squawking) One trail of footprints leads In 2004, thousands of fulmars began turning up dead on the region's beaches. It remained a mystery, but, hinted at a culprit. Synthetic hormones that entered the birds' blood through the plastic. - Birds that are in poor body condition usually do not start breathing at all. And so, their body makes a decision, okay, this is not a good year, And in that year, we had in very bad body condition, they started producing an - [Voiceover] No one knows for sure how the synthetic hormones and plastic enter the animal's blood stream. The use of BPA in plastics But, this does not eliminate of chemicals that have already (uplifting music) - [Voiceover] Life on the Sea since the search began for a garbage patch in the South Pacific 12 days ago. No land as far as the eye can see. No ships, no plastic. The boat is almost at where the trash vortex (cheering) - [Voiceover] All right, sir! - [Voiceover] The Sea Dragon crew discovers a drifting object. (ominous music) It's a plastic container. The researchers feel a mixture of excitement and apprehension. What if they are in for a nasty surprise? Large plastic objects can be Such an accumulation is unusual. Are they the harbingers of the South Pacific's garbage patch? The debris, containers, buoys' nets, must have drifted for thousands of miles. - It's so brittle. I mean the UV light makes it brittle. All the plasticizers, they go away and you're left with the basic plastic polymer which is fragile, and - [Voiceover] It is too soon to know what Eriksen's discoveries mean. At any rate, the Sea Dragon appears to be nearing the center of the gyre. (bagpipes play &quot;Amazing Grace&quot;) What harm can large quantities of plastic do so far out at sea? Hitashiga Takada of the Tokyo University\ of Agriculture and Technology chemical levels in the Over the course of his everywhere he found toxins, he also found tiny plastic pellets. (suspenseful music) (Hitashiga speaks Japanese) - [Voiceover] One day, plastic pellets for me to analyze. I didn't even know what they were. - [Voiceover] The small the raw material for plastic products. They're produced in gigantic quantities, and many find their way Takada investigated the pellets for BPA after the synthetic hormone scandal broke. As his routine, he tested to see whether the pellets contained other In particular, he was looking for residues of the pesticide, DDT, and the highly carcinogenic These toxins can be found in A legacy a the carefree of the chemicals were widely known. (Hideshige speaks Japanese) - [Voiceover] When we started, we didn't think we'd find But, then we discovered of toxins in the pellets higher than in the water. We were speechless. - [Voiceover] Takada had a theory; toxins like PCB did not dissolve in water. They remain foreign matter, Could it be that plastic and PCB attract each other like magnets? Takada tested his theory plastic pellets in their PCB levels daily. What he found confirmed his suspicions. After several days, the pellets showed extremely high levels of PCB. Soon, its concentration in the plastic was a million times Takada repeated his and each time it yielded the same result. The toxins were magically It was a groundbreaking discovery. Today, the pellets are a toxin concentrations in water. Takada receives pellets The little beads can be found on almost all the world beaches. These samples give Takada an impression of global contamination levels. The pellets are only one Just as worrying are the small particles into which large plastic Particles that absorb toxins (speaks Japanese) - [Voiceover] In remote St. Helena, or the Canary for substances like PCB are low, and flora and fauna are rarely But, then, contaminated are washed ashore and This is how plastic serves (ominous music) - [Voiceover] The ocean currents swallow the wandering plastic particles only to spit them up thousands of miles away. No one knows what harm of civilization do to living organisms. When plastic disintegrates in the ocean, it becomes a toxic timebomb. Animals that mistake ingest the toxins Little fish are eaten by bigger fish, which are eaten by even bigger fish. The higher an organism the more toxins they consume per meal. Scientists call it &quot;bio-accumulation.&quot; Human beings are at the Fish is part of our diet, We endanger ourselves with (mid-tempo dramatic music) (speaks German) - [Voiceover] I was deeply shocked to find such high levels of It developed in just a few hours. - [Voiceover] Optimists used would just pass through the But, Angela Kohler of the in Bremerhaven, Germany, She conducts experiments a regular menu item at many restaurants. In one experiment, she injects plastic dust into the mussels, and uses a microscope to observe how the tiny particles, behave in the animal's tissues and organs. A special device irradiates the minuscule plastic particles in the mussels. This technology provides nanoplastics remain in animal (speaks German) - [Voiceover] This it's how mussels naturally absorb nutrients. The siphon in tiny organisms When microscopic plastic particles are in the surrounding water, and land in the mussel's digestive system. Interestingly, the plastic and are then absorbed into cells. The plastic lodges itself in the tissue, Causing major inflammation - [Voiceover] The inflammation can have many consequences, Most dangerous are the smallest Some result when larger plastic pieces exposed to the elements disintegrate. But, Angela Kohler is We encounter them every day. Nanoplastics have long been part of life, but, they are too small One place they can be found as toothpaste, with so-called &quot;cleaning that are supposed to provide (Angela speaks German) - [Voiceover] Impressive, isn't it? Here we applied a thin You can see the many tiny particles. It's shocking, I wouldn't and I certainly wouldn't But, when you brush your When I take a shower in the the particles enter the and then, the clarification plants, where they are impossible to contain. The particles and and ultimately, the ocean. - [Voiceover] But, the problem is not only nanoparticles in consumer goods. Even normal plastic disintegrates into tinier and tinier particles. Saltwater, waves, and sunlight Eventually, the particles become Once the particles they become dangerous invaders. And not just for marine organisms. Every day, humans consume And every day, we increase (suspenseful music) The Sea Dragon is now 2,000 nautical miles from the Chilean mainland. - [Marcus] About 110 miles from the center of the South - [Voiceover] The crew collects samples with the trawl at night as well. - Ooh, whoa. That's got to be something. Oh, piece of plastic right there. - Really? Whoa! That is a piece of plastic packaging. It'd be getting closer to the center. What's interesting is we have evidence of the full food chain. And we've got plastic packaging here, about six or seven small fragments. Then, we have this lantern fish. They live about up to 1,000 meters down. They'll surface at night to feed, that's why we're finding And these fish feed some like this squid here. That small particle here, that may look very much a fish egg, something that these lantern fish would normally eat. - [Voiceover] Here too, found on the high seas, (slow, dramatic music) Eriksen and his crew drop as they record the quantity By now, the share of plastic in the net is several times larger than In some places, they have found six times as much plastic as plankton. Even if the plastic can't be seen, the results confirm their worst fears. - This being one of our more dense trawls that we've collected thus far. A piece of squid, there's these little blue specks are marine life. But, by far, the majority of the volume on the sea surface here, - What was interesting is that the progression wasn't linear. When we got close to the it became very high very quickly. And now, it's kind of - [Voiceover] Marcus Eriksen have found the South Its form is different than expected. It's no floating trail of Instead, it is nearly invisible, which makes it all the more insidious. A carpet of billions of small particles distributed over an area of The plastic garbage must small fragments during the Eriksen finds something else too. - I got it. - [Marcus] That looks like dinner. We could make barnacle rice. It tastes pretty awful, but... - No, it's disgusting, - Looks like brand-new rope on the inside. - [Voiceover] Scads of have attached themselves All of them from foreign maritime - 50 years ago, all you'd wood materials, coconut seeds, logs, maybe some pumice stones. Those things wouldn't survive - [Voiceover] Could it the marine ecosystem in yet another way? (slow melancholy music) Farmers in Caldera harvesting the cornerstone of the region's economy. (boat engine) Jose Marquez and Manuel It's a profitable business. Gracilaria algae are in cosmetics and food. Their fields lie underwater. Codium, another species of algae, appeared here suddenly several years ago. Since then, it has proliferated rapidly. The bay's ecosystem appears unable to cope with the new arrival. The codium algae is native to Japan. (speaks Spanish) - [Voiceover] This onslaught has greatly harmed our livelihood. The surfaces on which we cultivate the gracilaria are damaged. When the sea is rough, the and codium appears in its place. Afterward, these surfaces can no longer be used for cultivation. (slow, ominous music) Martin Thiel, a marine biologist at Universidad Catolica del Norte in Coquimbo regularly travels Chile's coasts. His discovery of the link between plastic and Caldero's mysterious algae invasion was almost by accident. (Martin speaks German) - [Voiceover] We discovered after we pulled up buoy It was covered with codium. We immediately understood that buoys are an important means of (men speaking Spanish) (speaks German) The organisms that reside on plastic can spread quite far this way. This is the importance of as opposed to wood which Apart from algae, there are other organisms that don't belong here. For example, this is a sea squirt. It probably comes from Europe. And here it is, all over these buoys and all the lines that hang in the water. - [Voiceover] Plastic appears to be an ideal means of transport. But, by accelerating the plastic is helping endanger of entire regions. The case of codium in Algae and mussels are only the visible part of this global migration. Most of the movement the very foundation of the food chain, and too small to see with the naked eye. Billions of microorganisms gather around every piece of plastic. (light, mid-tempo music) A researcher in Sheffield, England, discovered something curious. Every gram of ocean water contains many thousands of Yet only two are found on plastic. Do some microbes have a special Jesse Harrison took sediment samples from different beaches along the English coast. He simulated what is now he mixed plastic with the sediment. Small pieces of polyethylene, the most common type were placed among millions of microcbes. After a while, Harrison the plastic under a He saw little dents in the surface. It appeared as though some microbes had begun to eat the plastic. - I think the hope is definitely there that there will be some microbes out there that are able to either associated with plastic, - [Voiceover] But, what Scientists have only begun to study them. Do they have a special function Why did they attack the plastic particles? To find out more, Harrison - All microorganisms will need a carbon source for And plastics contain carbon, and yes, it's possible on the plastic surface that might be able to function as a source of energy to them. - [Voiceover] Plastic that the microbes need as nutrients. Whether that's good news or bad news, Harrison doesn't know. He might have discovered an organism that can biodegrade plastic. Or perhaps plastic, along with its toxins, has already established itself at the base of the food chain. Microorganisms are busy Squadrons of microbes exist even for plastic. Yet the consequences are hard to predict, we know too little. Do microbes know what they are doing? Can they really biodegrade If so, we might have a glimmer of hope. If not, we should prepare No one in Hawaii really believes that microbes will someday solve Scientists are still plastics end up here in the first place. In Maximenko's original model, all debris that enters the garbage patch is supposed to stay there, but, Junk Beach tells another story. Maximenko suspects it has To find out for certain, and what else? Plastic bottles painted bright red. The bottles serve to simulate (slow, dramatic music) Divers guide the plastic It's a treacherous undertaking, and has a strong riptide besides. Maximenko wants to that carry the bottles from His theory is that coves like Kamilo act like virtual nets, scooping - If ocean currents were steady, everything would stay garbage patch in the middle of the ocean. But, because of disturbances, and it comes to Hawaii. - [Voiceover] The North Pacific to contain some 100 million If Maximenko is right, then it will all wind up and in other coves along The ecological consequences After three weeks, and Marcus Eriksen and the finally arrive at Easter Island. Their expedition has of a garbage patch in the South Pacific. Do Easter Island's coasts as the Hawaiian Islands? (slow, dramatic music) No island is more remote Centuries ago, a culture thrived here. The island's large stone serve as a reminder. There are other reminders as well. The Rapa Nui exploited on a massive scale. Hardly a tree has been left standing. Now, civilization's trash - [Marcus] It's ironic our samples with plastic, but, you won't find this in the ocean. - [Voiceover] Before they return home to test the samples in the lab, they investigate the beaches. Marcus Eriksen and Anna whether the effect of is similar to that as on islands - Every island in the world's oceans become these dumps for trash. A truck and a Corvette. And there's a wheel. - [Voiceover] The beaches of Easter Island collect plastic garbage as if it were a net. The island's few sandy millions of colorful plastic particles. The garbage patch is surely close by. - I'm shocked every time, I'm so used to it, and that this is what I've come to expect. - [Voiceover] Where the one can only guess. Scientists have yet to of the plastic and its - These islands, they're in the gyres, and they are downhill from from the rest of the world. And they are the recipients And there is no one to point the finger to to say, &quot;This company, this country.&quot; It's a tragedy of the commons, where it's a global catastrophe and no one is taking responsibility. - [Voiceover] It's an illusion the billions of plastic The area of dispersion is too vast. All we can do is limit our use of plastic and stop the flow of toxic (birds squawking) Scientists are caught in a lonely struggle against a superior foe, plastic. It's a battle they cannot win. Even in the remote areas civilizations have left (speaking Spanish) Alarmed by the evidence so far, scientists the world over to survey the oceans and coastal regions. The marine biologist, Martin plan to count the small plastic particles along the 6,500 kilometers No one knows how severe the Thousands of volunteers must be found. Scientists hope that will serve as a wake-up call. And that's what we'll need if we are to change the way we use plastic. - You have to have this hope. You have to believe that what you're doing can make a difference. I mean every little thing really counts. Every beach cleanup makes a difference. I would stop using plastic That makes a difference. So, can we change the world? It's really hard to measure that. You can have an influence on our culture. I hope to have at least some influence and see this issue and in my - [Voiceover] Marcus Eriksen and that of others to put pressure on business leaders and Let's just hope its not too (slow, dramatic music)