Six months ago, we built this wildlife pond to try In this video, we'll see how the pond started and At the front, we have a trout pond, and it's breed here are green frogs. Most of our blue-spotted and spotted salamanders, tend So building a smaller, fish-free pond nearby would a water feature that we're lacking on The Wildlife which is a shallow, seasonal pond that will species to complete their life cycle in, usually shallow ponds. Light can easily penetrate the which form the base of the food web. The water invertebrates to develop faster. Having a site for the rest attracts a unique mix of plant and So, early this spring, we started to dig this wanted to build a completely natural pond with no Snow melt, rainwater, and some overflow from the so we'll have plenty of water filling up the pond deep clay, which is the key to having the pool We started by digging these small, shallow pools to funnel water down to the main water can really rush through this section, water down will be great for minimizing To dig the main pool, we used the backhoe to form a small dam. This isn't a traditional way of pool and not a permanent pond, it only had to be On the opposite side of the dam, we made a gentle more easily. We dug the deepest section to around but most natural ephemeral ponds are only 3 pool species are adapted to living in. Overall, this only took us a couple what it looked like when we finished up, and the and it was already looking clearer. with native grasses and wildflowers. I added some and for dragonflies to perch on, and a bucket of I then built a bat box and set it up behind the vernal sadly, their populations have taken a huge hit of a healthy ecosystem, so hopefully, providing Now, all that was left to do was wait for the in and for the first species to show up to the With the trout pond overflowing into the new vernal pond, it didn't take long for the daphnia, which are small crustaceans, were carried play a critical role in the ecosystem, as which significantly lowers the chances it's no surprise that they're also an important Shortly after their arrival, diving beetles At the rate at which daphnia reproduce, the larger supply for the entire growing season. With it was nice to see that we were already getting here to hunt for food and collect clay for their One of my target species, the wood frog, visited the pond in early spring to breed. I think next year we'll get in general, more species breeding in here once all In terms of cover, they don't really need much. bathing area with different pools and waterfalls. funny enough, before I was able to get the spring peepers were hiding in all of the I didn't want to potentially harm the them have this area for the year, and I used it as I think it's important to always be flexible when creating structures for used and how they're actually used are sometimes I set up next to the vernal pool turned into As we saw in the last video, these bluebirds nested active the entire season. Bats, on the other hand, were virtually non-existent. We didn't but the really sad part is I've only seen one As the warm summer weather moved in, this is transformation. The water levels began to of the vernal pond. As the water evaporates, Seemingly overnight, the water was Our wood frog tadpoles now had even more hiding places in the pond. between plants that I seeded and plants that just waiting for the right conditions to With this flush of plant life, this brought in more species to the pond. eventually fledged, and they visited with A Great Blue Heron showed up to hunt. As well as a Solitary Sandpiper. But probably my favorite sighting was this juvenile American Bittern. well-hidden amongst the tall grasses. This being flushed by a passing car, but the in this secretive species in the first place was Despite the bird activity, hands down the most active and most noticeable They moved back and forth between both ponds, using perfect for surveying the water for an easy meal. Between the insects hovering above the water and the ones moving around the vegetation, Watching them fly is not only entertaining, Dragonflies and damselflies are among and surprisingly, their anatomy has gone largely unchanged for millions of years. But being the aerial acrobats that they are, they require large amounts of food to Depending on their size, they can eat dozens or sometimes hundreds of small quantity and even hunt one of their own. With the breeding season in full swing, this energy demand is even higher. Males are territory, waiting for any female to wander In the case of these bluet damselflies, this male has successfully He uses specialized claspers at the end of With a bit of maneuvering, she brings her abdomen up to the male, to form a heart-shaped mating wheel. While in this position, the male will remove any sperm has the best chance at fertilizing the eggs. This mating ritual isn't exclusive around the pond, many different species are Once fertilized, the female will begin laying the eggs. Every time her abdomen touches the water, she's depositing an egg. But this isn't the only ovipositor to slice into stems and inject This is one of the reasons why the vegetation dragonfly and damselfly life cycles but for many Above the water, I was excited to find this interesting egg mass. will give rise to one of the most fascinating When they hatch, they'll begin their underwater lives by building the pond. They produce a highly adhesive silk that a mini fortress around their long, soft bodies Once protected, they're now safe to start feeding. some will shred decaying plant material, others water, some scrape algae, and a few species are By occupying different niches, this allows multiple species of caddisfly to coexist feed at different levels in a forest to reduce I'm thrilled to have caddisflies in the vernal pond; not only do I enjoy seeing the is also a strong indicator of good water quality. Their bodies are covered with thin, filament-like gills that allow them to absorb oxygen efficiently thrive in clean, well-oxygenated environments. If the water becomes polluted or oxygen levels drop, caddisfly larvae are among the first species reliable sign of a healthy aquatic ecosystem. The same can be said for amphibians. Their thin, permeable skin makes them highly sensitive signals that conditions are favorable not just for as well. At this time of the year, most of the way into the forest. Green frogs, however, If you live in warmer climates, green frogs can complete our growing season isn't that long, so green frog Meaning they're pretty much reliant on permanent ponds With the breeding season in full intense fights I've ever seen while these Once the breeding season was done, some green likely to prey on all of the insects I mentioned to have it dry up after roughly three months, and close to fully drying up, but we would get hit It's funny; if we built this to be a leak left, right, and center, but we built it to I think it'll depend on the year. Some drier and in others, it might only dry up 75%. In the fall, I started to see the first plants I seeded perennials, which should only flower in perfect, they'll be able to put out some flowers grass-leaved goldenrod, and a couple of great species, the cardinal flower, so next year, be getting constant visits from hummingbirds. We also had red foxes start using the pond, and it was really nice to see them again. It's been a we had the adults raise five kits right around day for hours on end. But this year, we rarely there would only be two. To make matters worse, and she found one of the kits barely breathing her inside, and we warmed her up while we got can only take animals from their area, and the a little worried. But luckily, they were able to She was good the whole way, and we were able to We got an email back a couple of weeks later, and thankfully, with a group of other injured red fox kits that Comparing both years, it really seemed like the red foxes faced quite a few more watch them have a bit of fun while hunting around Towards the end of the season, I had a good from our tree. The last thing I did to seeds that I collected from the forest pond. and they should do really well around the water's Overall, it was a great first year. This was a bit of an experiment, considering it was building a pond without a liner. Even though it with the pond not drying up completely, I and I'm excited to see what next year holds as