A Student Ate 5-Day-Old Pasta For Lunch. This Is How His Liver Shutdown. AJ is a 20 year old man, presenting to the and diffuse bleeding. Paramedics were scrambling because he kept AJ was a struggling college student. Like most other people born in his time, he debt that would wipe away his entire adult life. The most affordable food for him was cheap AJ would make all his food for the week on He'd refrigerate it into containers. This way, he could ration it by day, but sometimes, and then eat it following morning. His friends loved to joke that one day, AJ Except this time, it wasn't really a joke. Earlier in the week, AJ accidentally left He typically would have thrown that away, He thought it may have just been out for a As AJ reheated the now 5 day old pasta that kind of strange. But, he used a different brand of sauce this Immediately after finishing the entire plate He was bloating. He could feel gas build up in his stomach had to go outside to air out his pants. A stinging pierced through his cheeks and as he suddenly vomited in a way like never That pasta must have been no good, he thought. It's probably just a little food poisoning, Back in his dorm room now, AJ in a world of than just pasta had exited his body from both Hoping that he'd feel better, he went to an entire bottle of stomach medicine in hopes vomiting and diarrhea. But it wasn't enough. 3 am. AJ, laying in a pool of cold sweat, runs to couple more hours. As his roommate goes into the bathroom, he and the whites of his eyes a sickly greenish AJ gets up and weakly stumbles around before Bradley calls for 911 and AJ is brought to Given this history of present illness, it's of food poisoning that is causing liver failure. But to the medical team, that's not immediately AJ is an otherwise healthy 20 year old man, Given that he's coming from a college dorm, then that sounds like it could be an alcohol The yellowing of his skin and eyes is called bilirubin something that makes poop brown cells in the liver. And if bilirubin is floating around in the the liver is probably damaged, which brings as that can damage the liver. Similarly, another cause of liver damage and person could be a drug overdose, of which Except, a blood test finds no evidence of Instead, it's found that AJ has hypoglycemia. Hypo meaning low. Glyce from Ancient Greek (glukus) glykys and Emia meaning presence in blood. Low Sugar Presence in Blood. AJ ate his last meal of spoiled pasta about Blood sugar levels spike after eating, and body continuously works to maintain normoglycemia, meaning something that's supposed to be releasing Hypoglycemia by itself, is a relatively nonspecific It means you could have several different problems that could be causing it. But given that the liver is the most immediate developing hypoglycemia could give us a biochemical basis You see, the liver is a highly metabolic organ. You can't live for very long without one. Everything that enters your mouth, ends up and red blood cells, secretes bile for digestion, from bleeding, and processes proteins, among levels, bringing us back to metabolism. Sugar, or glucose is the cell's primary all these functions, commands a high demand Given that glucose is no longer being released it indicates that there is likely a metabolic And because fatty acids are oxidized into then it means there is likely fatty deposits functions. We can assume here that AJ's food poisoning of bacterial, maybe fungal source, but something's Typically food poisoning just causes stomach It doesn't typically cause acute liver failure, bacteria is causing the problem because culturing Days that AJ doesn't have, because his liver His response to broad spectrum Additional blood tests find multiple liver level 500 times the upper limit of normal, die and are circulating now all throughout His kidneys are starting to fail because analysis In liver failure, especially with the presence system that something's wrong. White blood cells and inflammatory markers arteries. From Ancient Greek splankhnikos meaning entrails. Because about 30% of systemic blood is in decreases the effective blood volume. The heart detects this and secretes hormones and to constrict all other blood vessels, preventing blood flow in and causing acute renal failure. If there is no available liver for transplantation survival. The idea of liver failure arising from toxic until recent times. In 1778, the ackee tree was transported to In 1875, unripened ackee fruit was consumed hypoglycemia, hyperammonemia, elevated liver This was named Jamaican Vomiting Sickness. It was found 100 years later in 1976 that liver mitochondrial activity, leading to fatty acid resulting in liver failure. A famous description of aspirin overdose in Reye's syndrome. It was noted that children who received aspirin of hypoglycemia, hyperammonemia, elevated that looked very similar to those who suffered We know today that excess aspirin uncouples during ATP synthesis, leading to fat buildup Today, any aspirin prescribed for a child dispensing will almost always be substituted For AJ, no liver was available in time for for further investigation. Liver histologies revealed diffuse microvesicular had accumulated inside his liver. The cellular necrosis, that is, dead cells play meaning that bacteria may not have been Post-mortem laboratory experiments and bacterial Samples of AJ's vomit were collected while pasta he ate. The bacteria Bacillus Cereus was identified It's well known as a foodborne pathogen By itself, the food poisoning that results recover from it through intrinsic bodily function. But for AJ, a second agent was found. Additional lab methods were used to detect, Bacillus Cereus cultures, revealing the protein final answer of AJ's case. Certain strains of Bacillus Cereus produce This protein is an ionophore, meaning it has charged ion, namely, potassium. For the bacteria, excess potassium is beneficial is highly toxic. Cereulide easily diffuses through cell membranes. Inside, they embed onto the surface (inner membrane) of the Human intracellular fluid is potassium rich, to perform its ionophoresis, incessantly pumping This eventually overloads the ability of mitochondria and energy, therefore preventing the use of The gradual swelling of the mitochondria causes scale, allows fat to pool into the liver, to regional inflammation, splanchnic vasodilation, the body to hold on to water, and to constrict kidney failure, and releasing ammonia and ending in death. All because AJ unknowingly ate pasta that The final link in this case comes not from but that stomach Bismuth subsalicylate is a salicylate, Aspirin overdoses, just like in Reye's Syndrome also result in liver transport chain in mitochondria, preventing up of glucose and pooling of fats in tissue. So adding this medicine overdose to cereulide synthesis, and leading to acute liver failure. It's important to note that this is NOT Many people eat pasta, or any other kind of noodle that is left over for But tragic cases such as this one have been hepatic failure is sudden, with patient expiration the emergency room. Some particularly tragic published cases are their children, only to have multiple small liver failure due to spoiled pasta. And the end of those stories, are the same as in AJ's case. Be careful of food left out for more than If food smells funny, it's always better cereulide poisoning, sometimes there isn't spoiled food, just like for AJ. This case was presented at a grand rounds It's based off some famous toxicology cases this one modified to teach residents and fellows hepatorenal syndrome, and the pathogenesis cereulide poisoning setting. Thank you so much to all my toxicology colleagues for a general audience, and thank you for Take care of yourself. And be well.