In our previous video on jet engines we have engines, jet engines do intake, compression, in every cylinder of a piston engine these events these events occur all the time, continuously we are going to learn how jet engines have to become much more efficient and much more powerful. is called a turbojet and by modern standards this is not, because this is a turbofan or more you most commonly find something like this in as you can see, even upon first glance, this engine and most important difference is that in a turbojet, all the thrust generated by the engine comes from the exhaust stream or the jet of expanding In other words, all the air that comes in at the the key mechanical components. But in a turbofan this is not the case. Not all the air ends up inside the core. Some of the air is bypassed parts of the engine. So, why would we bypass some Well, to understand that we must remember Essentially they move very large masses of air. as we know for every force there is a reaction pushes air out the back and the reaction moves the entire aircraft because the engine is attached a greater heavier aircraft or to travel faster the same time period. And to do that we can either Now a turbofan exploits the concept A high bypass turbofan and a low bypass like you or me travels in a commercial aircraft we bypass turbofan. A high bypass turbofan takes the at the very front of the engine we will find a We have a giant fan and a gas turbine at the back, the combustion and powers the fan. Now because the incredible amounts of air and about 80% of the and only around 20% comes from the exhaust jet commercial airliners can easily move upwards Because most of the thrust comes from the fan and not amounts of fuel to travel through the air. On top efficient at cruising speeds and altitudes of really well balanced and they offer almost zero modern jet engines of commercial jet engines initiate their movement with just one finger. The air creates a sort of protective thick sheath the engine and this helps to greatly reduce engine more air. The first limit is that we obviously some modern aircraft do have fan diameters which to attach very large turbo fans to aircraft but point we get issues with ground clearance. But disappeared you still can't make infinitely large greater the difference in speed between the blade a much greater distance than the root. In other supersonic speeds at the blade tips and this leads This is where low bypass turbofans like this one come in. the bypass ratio of commercial turbofans which tells us that for every kilogram of air going Conversely, for every kilogram of air going through a kilogram of air around the core. A low bypass efficiency of the engine and increase the range of a fighter jet. But at the same time the majority of the thrust comes by increasing the exhaust velocity. In other words instead of moving more air a low bypass turbofan moves the air faster. This means that we are not limited by the size of the fan as with a high bypass turbofan. Here we burn more fuel to increase the heat of the exhaust the more it expands the greater its velocity, the we move air through the engine, the greater this here too there are limits and this time the limit combustion chamber will become so hot that they prevent this a lot of cooling air is added to the Cooling air is also introduced through the turbine a sort of protective film against the heat. These contain large amounts of unburned air. In other meltdown fighter jet engines make use of this fact and achieve supersonic speeds at the expense of as an afterburner can be installed behind the of fuel to the hot exhaust stream. The heat of the and the unburned air in the exhaust stream means stochiometric air fuel ratios and incredibly high We don't have to worry about turbine meltdown because the The crazy temperatures achieved by the afterburner lead to dramatic gas expansion and insane exhaust gas velocity which leads to very very fuel requirements afterburners can be employed difference that you can spot between our ancient increased number of compressor and turbine wheels a single compressor section and a single turbine from the combustion chamber. The turbine wheel and the same shaft so an increase in turbine speed Our modern turbofan does things differently. One shaft runs inside the other. On the first shaft we low pressure compressors. And on the second shaft we which spins the high pressure compressors. Such a Because it allows us to run different wheels at wheel achieves peak efficiency at a certain speed different tasks, they off operate in different peak efficiency at different speeds, different set nearest to its peak efficiency RPM. On top of and wheel sets because this allows us to harness incremental fashion, which in general improves engine size and weight. Something else that the two shafts and the wheels on them, they spin in but it does exist on engines and when it is done, A turbine or a compressor section consists of rotor are stationary. The rotor blades sort of bite into as they rotate, they accelerate the air. The actual occurs in the stator, whose shape diverges. This shape of the stator converts the increased speed that when the airflow leaves the stator it is not vanes or guide nozzles are employed at the end the air and direct it in a desirable direction Unfortunately these outlet guide vanes introduce But if the next set of wheels spins in the opposite direction reduced or even completely eliminated. This make the engine shorter and lighter. But there like these are employed and that is to cancel out take a wheel or a similar disc-shaped object and forces which try to change its position. As we and they spin at very high speeds in a a gyroscopic effect which means that it Well, airplanes actually travel at very high speeds the aero surfaces of the aircraft, a very high mechanical advantage, so they easily inside the engine and pilots really don't feel any However, problems arise at low speeds, mechanical advantage, and this is for example why Harrier jump jet, the hovering jet, this engine, The two shafts spinning in opposite each other leading to no net gyro effect on the and maneuvering of this aircraft. This is also is a nice example where they have an engine which So the engine cancels out some of the gyro effect the direction of the motorcycle at very high The evolution of jet engines through multi As always, thanks a lot for watching, I'll be seeing you soon