When I got up this morning, I found that my cloves, and nutmeg had all escaped from the pantry. They were standing together And that can only mean one thing... Seasoning's Greetings! [awkward pause] Yes, No Effort November is coming to a close, and what better topic with which to conclude the month than a pointless decorative light filled with a mysterious clear liquid that makes bubbles thanks to the heat generated by an incandescent bulb in its base. Oh, a lava lamp you say? No, we just did those! We're talking about bubble lights! These things! [faint rustling as tree is shaken ever-so-weirdly] Ever since the tradition of putting soon-to-be was combined with the advent of electric to throw in our Christmas trees. Because if there's one thing we oughta put it's electric lights on cost-cut strings! Super safe. But you all know of that hazard by now - at least I hope so. And anyway it doesn't have anything to Or does it? You see, I can force a connection between Watch. What makes Christmas trees dry out? Dry air and a lack of water, of course. But what makes that go faster? The heat generated by incandescent bulbs strung But what if, instead of just resigning ourselves we used that heat to create a new sort of a light "which shall present a neat and pleasing appearance, and which shall be light in weight, durable in construction, inexpensive to produce and efficient to operate." Carl W. Otis made such a connection in 1941 Bubble lights, or as he put them, Did he have any concern about the safety implications Uh, probably not, but these do spread the heat and thus they don't get as hot as a naked Still, slightly safer certainly seems separate He probably just wanted to make a... thing. And these are them! So, what are they? Well, they're constructed as if they are the actual bulb in here isn't meant to be replaced, this entire thing when one goes out. Everything is glued together - again, this entire thing, ostensibly, is the bulb. Indeed, even in the patent, this is how it No user serviceable parts inside. Also, hang on, we need to talk about the way This is... a lot. And I can't unsee what is simply Ohio with Get it together, patent attorney of the 1940's! I can't even figure out what your name is, Ulforio Arichstein? Anyway, the key feature of this is of course this It's filled with dichloromethane, sometimes This solvent has a very low boiling point, So, you don't need to heat it up all that much Put a light bulb underneath a vial filled Simple as that. Fun fact! This chemical is used in one method of coffee One of the most interesting things about these, and when they do, they just... There's no build-up or gradual rise, it's Full bubbles! And they actually make noise! Take a listen. [ each light starts with a thud; then a faint rumbling can be heard akin to a boiling pot on the stove ] After they've been on for a while, when for a few solid minutes before they stop. This time, though, they do sort of just fizzle out. Looking at the patent, it seems the vials the heat from the bulb in one spot for the bubbles and perhaps that's why they start bubbling with a bang and then take so long to stop. I'd break one of these open and take a look for myself I like these things and don't want to break I've read that it may simply be a bit of and perhaps that explains this weird crystally stuff up here on this one. Now, you can still buy these today. I, a midwesterner, obtained these at, say Menards! but I imagine they're available in other places, too. But, as far as Christmas lights go these are actually Though I snagged them at the end of last year [ with uncomfortable enthusiasm ] This website I found says that they peaked and fell out of favor once the common-as-sand miniature And I suppose this is corroborated by my experience I knew only one family who adorned their Christmas and I'm not gonna lie I thought it was cool as heck. But aside from them, I'd never seen them. Not in a public display, not any one I knew, just that one tree in the family of my brother's classmate. And until I bought these I had never seen I really wish these had developed into something as I think it's pretty dumb to throw the entire thing away. I wouldn't be surprised if this was a contributing Plus, of course, they're kind of energy-intensive, Each "bulb" consumes about 5 watts, so That's slightly less than your average lava And also, uh well methylene chloride isn't casually boiling away in your house or right in front of your face as you hold it. I mean, it's not *that* bad but still. Oh, and you could put these things on a dimmer and That would probably still get the bubbling But anyway, that's it. That's about all I wanted to say. These are a neat little oddity that you can (well actually, I'm only assuming that, I haven't been to a Menards in months but have largely fallen by the wayside. Jeez this video's really gonna tank my watch time Oh well. At least I actually didn't put a lotta effort Finally. festively smooth jazz Yeah, 'cause this video is so short there mess up so I don't know how many bloopers but I mean... I might not even be able to fill up the entire That's why I'm saying this right now. Because, well, what am I - I.. I can't just end, ya know I've got.. I have some standards, this, this may be No Anyway, have you heard of lava lamps? I found that my pepper, onion, powder ... onion powder [laughter] ohhh We've been conceiving of wacky and wackier electrical things But what if... instead of just requi ... resigning [noises of frustration] I suppose y'all want some sort of secret caption at the end like I normally do. Well, here it is. It's not very good. Welp, on to Do Things December!