Here we are! Welcome, everyone! wonderful dish, as carbonara is carbonara, irreplaceable. One can't mention carbonara without thinking about Roman pecorino, guanciale. I'm starting by saying this because in the world there's versions, and here we're at my home, in the kitchen of L'Imbuto, restaurant L'Imbuto. And where is restaurant L'Imbuto? In Rome? Fanner. You might ask, what is Palazzo Fanner? Well, it's home to marquise Del Grillo in Mario Monicelli's movie. Anyway, attention now: about ingredients. So, pecorino, I also add a bit of Parmesan. Here are some beautiful rigatoni, the eggs and guanciale. Poor ingredients and These are extraordinary ingredients a lot of attention, but also with a bit of craziness. Don't get mad, I'm adding Parmesan because Parmesan is unique, it has this natural sapidity, minerality - as the coolest guys almost right instead of salt, it's almost Let's start cooking, otherwise we're chatting too much. Guanciale. Remove the rind, and please keep the rind many things: for a nice pasta and beans, with beans but also a vegetable soup. So, in short here we're not making OK? Let's just cut it, Here is a good size, not smaller than this, a recipe with carbonara, where you need a small cube of guanciale. It has to stay under your teeth, as an impression. this image! There we go! Something very important is that guanciale not toast, but almost get candied. It should roast very slowly, so the fats from guanciale need to melt, and they need to melt gently, just like a caress. Then, remember that these are dishes in which nuances are very important, nuances are as important as imperfection in this dish, because if you are using a good guanciale, the same as you used the previous let's take the eggs. Here imprecision is necessary, so let's separate reds from whites, but if you're mixing a bit of white there's no problem whites. Here we go. Did you notice? See, it should be wet with whites, it's not such a technical aspect, it's more improvised, but I can assure you, it works. Then take a whisk, here it is. I'm making a small portion. Meanwhile, Eggs should be whisked, they're incorporating oxygen, and then get ruined and guanciale is cooking. Such a great smell. As I always say, first you give it a bit stronger browning, then lower the flame and let it cook very slowly. A bit of Parmesan, just a bit. This way, it's enough. Then pecorino and then, pepper. Pepper is key in carbonara. OK, so, the base is ready, so we're waiting for both guanciale and 5-6-7 minutes. OK? Bye! It's Frank, from Papua New Guinea! English translation! pumarola water and oyster's butter... So, we're almost done. Guanciale has a beautiful color and smell. Some but I'm not interested in this, I want taste, so I want guanciale to melt with pasta, so as you meet it, you find this pork-ish taste. salt, as well, and I'm adding it just a tiny bit, what is needed, as it's already tasty with Parmesan, the pasta is ready. This, if you allow me to say it in a playful wet. We're draining pasta, but not too much there we go. Mamma Mia, the smell is incredible! So, now you're playing temperature of pasta the egg and the cheese. And you're starting to play with guanciale in this way. Slowly add guanciale, without moving it on the flame. What a smell! Gently, without bumps, nothing strange. Finish adding guanciale, and mostly all of its fat. Oh, I can hear sighs, and moans... The pasta and now, the final touch: a dustful of pecorino. Mamma Mia! A perfect cream, perfect! Pasta is seasoned. When I'm telling you pasta should always be stirred in sauce, regardless. Take a look, here. Sorry about venting. Ladies and gentlemen, this is carbonara! The rest is fairytale, arguments. Cheese, as you noticed at the end, is fundamental to create the right cream. It's about the steps! Carefully follow the egg feels the temperature and meanwhile starts to dissolve, then guanciale, the fat from the guanciale, I think this dish speaks by itself. In my area, we say: Can we talk about this? Really, can we talk about this? We're still here, together, making carbonara! Let's be clear, to make a recipe inspired by carbonara, because carbonara itself is untouchable. there's no such thing as revisitations this is something that takes inspiration from carbonara, so stay with me, it's a lot of fun! The ingredients are exactly the same as for classic carbonara, here it is, in the classic recipe, just like the ham rind in pasta with beans, in a vegetable soup... in many preparations. In this case, we're taking a small pot, here it is. Rind, cold water, and we're moving it gently, until the rind melts, fat circles, then the guanciale another great broth: Parmesan crust! Grate it well to take the impurities off. never get tired of reminding this: a broth, always start from cold, so cold water, even ice. In this case, so, same for the Parmesan crust: a pot, cold water, flame. We're bringing it to a boil, when it comes to a boil, we're lowering the temperature, and when the Parmesan crust melts and the broth becomes turbid - careful, this has to be turbid - the broth is ready. the pecorino crust. Again, let's bring it to a boil, when it comes to a boil and the crust melts and the broth is turbid, white-ish, the broth is done. in cooking is something very serious. &quot;and in the meantime, let's make that's not it. So please, always dedicate guanciale. Guanciale is used just like in the classic version. We're letting it not toast, but glace, very slowly. I'm leaving, in this case, the pepper on, as well because I want more taste, taste, lots of taste! A pot. Here it is, cut quite coarsely, because I want to feel it under my teeth and then, this time I chose ditali, a pasta shape that is unfortunately very underestimated, as cuisine is evocative, must be evocative, and this reminds us a lot of our childhood. children, we're eating a lot of this kind This time we're taking an egg, Whisk, pepper, we're whisking this a bit more, as I want to obtain... I'm telling you a bit later, as we're still waiting for pasta to be cooked and for guanciale to So, the guanciale is done, the broths are done, it takes a lot of time for broth so you can also prepare it one day in advance, Taste all of the broths, this So good! The guanciale rind one The Parmesan crust one is really something... anyway! All of them are good. So, please... Here you really Guanciale, pecorino and Parmesan. It's exactly what happens the ratio is the same. Now let's taste it. It's moving. we're making a classic stracciatella: hot broth, whipping the egg, taste it... Pasta is ready, here it is. Guanciale, pecorino and pepper. then a dish made with the ingredients of carbonara: ditale in broths of guanciale, pecorino, Parmesan So, just have some fun, Bye! See you soon!