[helmet clanging] [knight groaning] [armor clanging on ground] Toby Capwell: Poor old R-Patz looks like a pile of garbage, I'm afraid. Hi, I'm Toby Capwell. I'm curator of arms and armor in Central London, but I'm also a practitioner. Since I was a kid, I've been riding horses and fighting in armor. I've taken part in competitions, armored combat all over the world. And today we're going to of medieval arms and armor in cinema. [punching] [laser gunfire] Oh, stop! Stop. Did you see that? He just got shot in the but it didn't stop him. And in a complete armor, a medieval knight can suffer that would kill an unarmored but you can take the hits. And in armored combat, there are times when you decide to let your opponent hit you because you know you can take it and you're gonna do something else. You're not gonna waste time defending what doesn't need to be defended. And the armor in this narrative significance. It's storytelling. He can take a shot right in the chest, so that's a pretty big character point, wouldn't you think? He's not clunking around, all cumbersome. He moves like a real knight. I've been jousting and I've built a lot of working with different Real armor of the late Middle Ages, the Renaissance, is like a steel skin. It's not bulky. It's your shape. The armor should fit you like a skin. It should follow your musculature. It doesn't have to be a It's fitted. It moves with you. The plates are hardened and so they don't have to be thick and chunky. They need to glide over each other and move like you move. Mando: Tell me where the Mandalorians are, and I'll walk out of Toby: He hardly ever takes his helmet off, and yet you know everything his feelings, his character. Historically, a knight has a very close, personal relationship with his armor. The armor is responsible for his safety, but he's also the guy who's That's never really been Stormtrooper: I said, where are they? Toby: It's got a couple of possible sources of inspiration. On the one hand, it looks a lot like an ancient Greek hoplite's helmet, the ancient Greek heavy infantry of, like, 500 BC or of thereabouts. These very distinct spectacled helmets with these eye cutouts, they have a nasal for the nose and then the cheeks brought in. In the Bronze Age, they're trying, again, to get as much protection for the face and the head as they possibly can. So that's where that really closely set kind of spectacled profile comes from. That was then imitated in the Renaissance. In the 15th century in Italy, and very rapidly everywhere else, people became fascinated with and they started looking and Roman precedent. And this style of helmet in Italy and Venice, in the Venetian empire, specifically. In the 15th century, most used by infantry, shooting crossbows and firearms and... more lightly armored troops. And in the ancient Greek period, they were the heavy infantry, but they still had shields to hide behind, and they're actively as well as relying on their armor. I'd give this a 10, absolutely. [knight grunting] &quot;Vikings&quot; is a fantasy. You should really treat it as a fantasy. There's a lot of things And that makes it almost because those Anglo-Saxons are all wearing late-16th-century helmets. The burgonets, with the They are 800 years wrong. [armor clanging] [man screaming in pain] The leather biker gear. There is almost no historical evidence for leather clothing. Almost across the board, people in the past did not It's a distinctly modern thing. [horse neighing] [man shouting] The ax is fine. I don't have a problem with the ax. I do have a problem with none of the main You can't go anywhere without a helmet. So, I mean, someone like Ragnar Lodbrok or someone of that stature would have an amazing mail coat. He'd have jewelry. He'd have big, thick, gold stuff on him. He'd have a gilded sword. He does not have to look That is metal. Nothing else looks like metal but metal in close-up. All that decoration is etched and you can spray plastic And increasingly it looks but it doesn't behave like metal. Their armor, you can see, it's a little bit too flexy. There's something about metal that, it has a weight, it has a rigidity that rubber and plastic and you know everything you and it's all coming out through his gear. They've taken real mostly German, and then Sauron is wielding a mace. And maces are real. It's a hafted weapon with with a flanged or bladed head on one end. So all the weight of the And it's a concussion weapon. And you're trying, rather than to cut or pierce your opponent, you're trying to smash That is way bigger in proportion to him than any real maces were. Real German Gothic high medieval maces of the 15th century are, they're usually pretty short. They're just a little bit more than a foot or a bit more long. The heads are quite small, but they got these really and you're focusing your A weapon doesn't need to be massive to have the effect that it needs to have. But massive always reads well on screen, especially when you've And how successfully does to bring its characters I gotta give this 10 as well. [armor clanging] Poor old R-Patz looks like a pile of garbage, I'm afraid. This is a mishmash. There are a couple of elements, the shoulders and the body armor, that are vaguely 15th century, but they're about a generation His helmet is just ridiculous. I mean, that has a vaguely but it fits badly. It's too big. It's clunky. [knight groaning] [armor clanging on ground] Ah, come on, man. What is this? [armor clanging] Well, this is obviously supposed to be the battle [sighs] [clicks tongue] [producer laughing] At the real battle of The French had 10,000 fully armed knights. That was the entirety of their army. They had archers, but The Pas-de-Calais mud is like very difficult to move through. And it would be difficult, regardless of what you're wearing. Armor often gets blamed for as if the French were wearing heavy armor that the English were too The fact is, the English, were wearing full-plate armor of the time. The English had 1,500 fully armed knights whose job it was to protect [men shouting] They go about it sort of the right way, in that this knight is to fight and kill people and he's very, very good at it. The only way you've got any chance of this if you're an archer or an English foot soldier or whatever is to get six or seven and pile in all at the same time. Don't take turns. He will kill all of you. You gotta all go together, and four or five of you and then one or two of you and in the gaps in the armor. You don't stab through the armor. When King Richard III was killed at the battle of Bosworth, they immobilized him. They held him down. Someone took his helmet off. They probably cut the chin and then they can do as they like. They cut off the back of his skull. They stabbed him right through the brain. They did whatever they wanted. I'll give it a one, 'cause they've got mud and archers working together. But I can't give it any more than a one. It's a massive lost opportunity. [crowd cheering] [horses running] It's a legal procedure where they're determining with a trial by combat. They're attacking each If you can see, they're passing right to They shouldn't be doing that. Because your reign hand so it can't wield a weapon. Your reign hand is in your left, so your left side is more exposed. So that's where your shield goes, and your lance is in your right hand. Nobody's allowed to be In traditional knightly you always pass on the Unhorsing someone is very difficult, and it only happens all come together. The timing's got to be right. The impact, the placement of the lance on the body's got to be right. Where he is in his stride of There's lots of things to the likelihood of being unhorsed. But as a general rule, it's very, very difficult to separate a good [horse running] [horse neighing] If this was a later period, in, like, the 15th century when you have full-plate armor, you can be run over by a and you'll be just fine. I've seen it happen. This is kind of a weird because El Cid, Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar, is a real person, but he lived in the 11th century, in the late 1000s. It's largely looking like the early- to mid-14th century. [crowd cheering] Uh-oh, the 16th century two-handed swords are coming out now. We assume for some reason that a bigger sword hits These are not firearms. This is not a higher-caliber sword. [laughing] They didn't have two-handed What you're seeing Charlton wearing here is what's traditionally It's a knitted garment, knitted So you've got big loops in and then they iron it flat, spray it silver, and it looks like mail, or they think it does. It doesn't really look but it's been the mail substitute for years and years and years. And it's fine for the background, and I'd still pass it for the background, but you can't have it in the foreground. Five out of 10. The diving suit is very much like armor in the sense that it protects you from a hostile environment It's a complete fantasy, because he's not got an air supply. Diving suits are a real historical thing. There are designs going back to the 14th and 15th centuries in the late Middle Ages, of designs for diving suits. The skills of the armorer would be recruited for doing something like this. They work purely on a basic The suit is not watertight; the water can get in. You pump air into the helmet, and it displaces the But the water, as the the water goes up like this, and it sometimes covers your face, and sometimes it goes down, and you hope they pump hard enough to keep you from drowning. It's dicey, but it's possible. I give it a seven. It's very, very interesting. [iron clanging] Hey, what's he doing? Stop that! [fire hissing] No, you can't do that. That's not how you take This whole idea of and then recasting it in a mold, which is what they're doing, you can't do that. If you reduce the iron or the steel to its liquid state, you lose all of the If you melt and cast iron in a mold, it's cast iron, and it and you can't temper it and When you have a lump of iron ore as it comes out of the ground, yes, they heat the iron ore from all of the silicates that it's mixed up with. You never fully melt it. You don't bring it up to You heat it up until the chemical reaction occurs in the ore, from all of the other junk. And it sort of gloops down into the bottom of the bloomery. Weaponsmiths are very, very careful never to fully melt anything. You cannot melt armor I don't care if it looks I like some of the things that &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; does with armor, but that's a fail. That's a zero. I love the sort of evil-Statue-of-Liberty sort of aesthetic here. I think the star of Real flails are derived The articulated staffs that And if you have a feudal peasant army and they need to take whatever a flail, you know, agricultural It's a staff with just and then another piece of wood. When such an idea is they add a short length of chain between the staff and the head. Flails almost exclusively a common soldier, infantry weapon. The knights didn't use them. Because they're kind of scary and they have an inherent they've become much more famous and much more popular to the kind of popular conception of the medieval knight than they really deserve to be. But it's great here. I mean, I get it. Totally works here. No flail was ever that big. No flail ever had a chain that long. But in this context it works great. I can't think of another weapon that would have the kind of visual and story, character-driven impact that this has in this scene. It's gotta be a 10 out of 10. [man screaming] He'd be dead. Be very dead. One man can't attack a [men screaming] Nobody ever used rectangular shields. I mean, that's ridiculous. It's stupid. And real early medieval shields, which were all circular if air can get through, then a lot of other Most real shields of this period are made out of boards placed edge to edge, sort of like this. But they're placed properly edge to edge, and they're glued, and they're sealed. And there's arguments, good arguments to be made for them then being edged with rawhide or sometimes covered with hide or textile and glue. You should not be able to see that much air through your shield. [men screaming] [armor clanging] [man shouting in pain] He's been stabbed right through the chest between those plates. They're showing you how their own made-up, silly armor doesn't work. Now, maybe if he gets with a spear that's wielded by someone who knows how to use it, his padded textile and mail armor, which is what he should be wearing, or even maybe a scale armor, maybe it wouldn't stand up either. Now, I'm sorry, I can't find anything to hold on to. That's a zero. [horse running] [man shouting] [armor clanging] Bad lance technique. I'll give them a pass on have known what good lance technique is. It's a very common thing in jousting sequences in movies that they lower their lance to a horizontal, and then they kick on and gallop along. And they're galloping along You don't do that. You're sitting on a horse, you've got 12 feet of pine lance, and the horse is going and you've got it here. It's inevitable that it's And it's got a steel head on the end. There's weight right And pretty soon this thing and you couldn't hit a You've got no chance of controlling where that spear goes. And you get the horse going, and then you won't have to until the last second or And then it comes down. Boom. It takes practice. If you're too late, you miss. If you're too early, you get tangled up and look like an idiot. But if you get it right, you're always on. A lance came down, it got tangled up with and it came down, and the steel spearhead, which has three prongs like this, two of the prongs went past my hand and the third one bypassed the defenses of my armor, the gauntlet. It went just under the plate, through the leather glove and into me. I finished the competition before I even realized I [armor clanging] Lancelot: Yield, sir! Toby: Now, again, this is all metal armor. It's all aluminum, aluminum sprayed black but look how good it looks. They worked hard to do and they knew what they were doing, and I think it deserves a seven. [armor clanging] Traditional ranged weapons, like the longbow and the crossbow, the projectile isn't moving that fast, but it's still moving way fast enough. You can't block arrows. Knight: Remove the hood and the mask. [dramatic music] [Toby laughing] Toby: It's an interesting You know, who has he come as? He's got a vaguely 11th, early-12th-century helmet, but he's got full-plate armor under there like the 16th century or something. I'd give it a two because it's funny and it's Nicolas Cage. [producer laughing] Oh, it's funny. [producer laughing] I guess that's worth something.