Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we going to be to understand how they work There's also some problems for you to try and solve. So we can connect components of a circuit in either series, parallel or a combination of series and parallel. In this animations, we use electron flow, which is from negative to positive. You might be used to which is from positive to negative. Electron flow is what's Conventional flow was the original theory and it's still taught because it's probably easier to understand. Just be aware of the two When we place a lamp in series the electrons are going to of the battery along the and to the positive In the series configuration, for the electrons to flow along. If we place two lamps in a series circuit, they will both shine, but then the entire circuit stops working because there's only one path for the electrons to flow along. You might have seen this such as fairy lights. When one bulb pops, the whole string of light stops working. A solution to this is to When we do this, we provide If one lamp stops working the except for the one broken path. Lets look at voltage first Say we take a 1.5 volt battery. If we use a multimeter to we will read 1.5 volts. But if we measure the same Why? Because we can only measure between two different points. Voltage is like pressure in a water pipe. If you fill out the tank then And we can read the pressure The gauge is comparing two points in order to know what the This would be the pressure inside the pipe compared to the pressure outside the pipe. When the tank is empty, because the pressure inside the pipe is now equal to the So therefore we get a reading of zero. The same with voltage. We can only measure the between two different points. When we connect a component to a battery, it experiences the difference in voltage between the two points or The voltage or pressure will force electrons to In parallel circuits, the voltage is the same It doesn't matter if here, here or here. We get the same reading. Why? Because each component or to both the positive and the negative terminals of the battery. So they receive the full pressure. In series circuits the components were so the voltage reduced. But with parallel there and each is connected So when we use voltage in the formulas for parallel circuits, it's super easy, because It's just the voltage of For example, in this circuit the and the total resistance is three ohms. So what is the voltage of the battery? Well form Ohm's law, we know voltage equals current So voltage equals two amps which gives us six volts. Another example. This circuit is connected what is the voltage drop Well that's easy. We calculate voltage again by multiplying the current and the resistance. It has a current of 1.5 and a resistance of eight ohms. 1.5 amps multiply by eight If we connected two 1.5 the voltage increases to three volts. Why? Because the electrons are being boosted by the second battery so the increase in pressure or voltage. However, when we connect the voltage doesn't increase. We only get 1.5 volts. Why? Because the batteries in this configuration. The path of the electrons is So the flow of electrons are shared between the batteries. The batteries therefore However the storage capacity has increased so they can provide 1.5 volts for longer than a single 1.5 battery by itself. We've covered the basics in our previous videos. Do check that out, link is down below. So how does current flow Remember current is the flow of electrons. We need electrons to flow to power things like lamps. We apply voltage difference to force electrons to move. As we apply more voltage, The speed of the but the amount of The more electrons we have We represent current with and we measure current But we usually just If we connect a lamp with to a battery rated at 1.5 volts, the total current in the We can measure that by into the circuit. Or we can calculate that using Ohm's law, and the formula current equals voltage divided by resistance. We won't go into too as we've covered that in a Do check that out, link is down below. If we then connect a second one ohm resistive lamp into the multimeter reading the total current sees an increase to three amps. But if we measure the current through the lamps individually, we see the multimeter will In the wire between the two lamps, we also see a current of 1.5 amps. We can see that the current will divide and the electrons will flow in all the different routes available to get back to the battery. And then they will recombine. We can also see that the total current is the sum of the current in each branch. So we calculate the total current using the following formula. If we replace lamp one with so that's now double the then the total current Lamp one sees a current of 0.75 amps and would be less bright. Lamp two continues to read 1.5 amps, and the meter between lamp one and two continues see 1.5 amps. Therefore we can see that the depends on the resistance of the branch and again the total current in the circuit is the sum of the currents in each branch. If we add a third, one and we change lamp one back to a one ohm resistive lamp also, so that's now three, one we see that the total is now 4.5 amps. Each lamp continues to see The multimeter on the wire has increased to three amps. But the meter between lamps two and three reads just 1.5 amps. If we double the voltage from then the current would double also. The total current increases to nine amps, the current between lamps one and each lamp now experiences So from this we can see will vary the current. The total current also varies with the resistance of each branch and how many branches are connected. Let's see some more detailed explanations on how to calculate this. See if you can solve these before I do. Take this simple parallel circuit with two resistors and a 12 volt battery. Resistor one is 15 ohms and Resistor two is 24 ohms and So what will the multimeter read for the total current in the circuit? What we know that the is equal to the sum of the Therefore, 0.8 amps plus What if we know the total current and the current in one branch. How do we find the current Well that's easy, we just subtract. So in this example, we connected to two resistors. The total current is three amps. And branch one has a current of 1.8 amps. The current in branch two subtract 1.8 which gives us 1.2 amps. How do we calculate the We use the formula current equals voltage Let's say we have three resistors one in parallel to a six volt battery. Resistor one is 10 ohms, and resistor three is five ohms. What's the current flowing through each? Well let's look at resistor one first. Current equals voltage So six volts divided by Resistor two is six which is three amps. And resistor three is six which is 1.2 amps. So the current in this because there's only the current The current in this wire will be 4.2 amps because there's the current of resistor two and three passing through. The current here is the because of the current flowing through it. Okay so how do we calculate the total resistance This is the part which people It looks difficult but it's actually very easy And to make it even easier, we brought a free online and this will help you find the total resistance You can find link to this in the video description down below. In a series circuit, the total was the resistance of each Why? Because the electrons had So the more resistors they pass through, the more total resistance increased. But, with parallel circuits, we are providing lots of different paths for the electrons to flow through. So we are instead going to work out how conductive each branch is, or how easy electricity can We then combine these values and we convert that Let's take this simple parallel circuit with two 10 ohms resistors. How do we find the total Well we have to use that formula which is RT or Resistance Total equals one divided by one divided by R1 plus one divided by R2. So we then replace the with our resistor one and So we start at the bottom, and we divide one by our 10 ohms for both, which gives us 0.1 plus 0.1. So we add the two decimals So then we just divide one by 0.2 to get five ohms of total resistance. If you do this in your then just remember to use your brackets. So although we had two, 10 ohms resistors, the total resistance is only five ohms. That's because the current has been split and so the resistance has reduced. If we had two, five ohm resistors, then the total resistance is 2.5 ohms. If we had a 10 and a five ohm resistor, then the total resistance is 3.33 ohms. If we have more resistors, then we just keep adding We input our resistor values For example a 10 ohm, a five gives us a 1.25 ohms total resistance. So why are we using all fractions in the formula? Well, you don't really need you just need to remember But, I will just explain Because there are so many paths for the current to flow through, we instead work out how well electricity can That's the conductance which is the opposite or the As we already know the resistance we can just invert this Looking at the 10 ohm resistor, we can also write 10 Because 10 divided by one is 10. And you can do that with any number. Then we invert the number or the reciprocal, and we do that by flipping the denominator So we get one divided by 10, which is 0.1. We can flip it back to resistance because it's the opposite. So one divided by 0.1 is 10. If we had a one ohm resistor, then we have a conductivity of one. If we had a 1000 ohm resistor, then we have a conductivity of 0.001. So you can see that for the electricity to pass because it has a better conductivity. So once we work out how we add them together to As we saw a moment ago, we can convert that back to resistance by taking the reciprocal. So one divided by the total conductance gives us our total resistance. Hopefully that made sense, if it didn't then don't you are never going to really need that, you just need to use the formula. Power consumption in parallel circuits. The resistors and the components will convert the electrical as the electrons pass through and collide within the component. That's why they become hot and we can see that using So how much power are in the circuit in total consuming? We can use two formulas for this. Either voltage squared or voltage multiplied by current. Let's see some examples. Say we have a 10 ohm connected in parallel R1 has a current of 0.6 amps, that's six Volts divided by 10 Ohms, which gives us our 0.6 amps. So the power consumption of Ans six volts squared equals to 36, so 36 divided by 10 is 3.6 Watts. Alternatively, six volts also gives us 3.6 Watts. R2 is five ohms with That's six volts divided by five ohms which equals 1.2 amps. So the power consumption is 7.2 Watts. We see that from six volts Six volts squared is 36, so 36 divided by five is 7.2 Watts. Alternatively six volts also gives us 7.2 Watts. The total power consumption is therefore 3.6 Watts plus 7.2 Watts We could have also found this by multiplying the voltage Or alternatively we could divided by the total resistance. Okay, now let's see if you I'll leave a link in the video description for the answers and the solutions. Question one. We have four resistors in parallel, a 10 ohm, a 20 ohm, a What is the total Question two. We have three resistors to a six volt battery. The total current in Resistor one is 10 ohms resistor two is 15 ohms and resistor three has an and an unknown current. Calculate the current as well as the current and the resistance of the resistor three. Okay guys that's it for this video, but to continue your learning then check out one of and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow us on LinkedIn and of course