- So tell me about yourself. - I um.... - So, tell me about yourself. - Well, I...I like... - Hmm. So tell me about yourself. - Can I call a friend? - You submitted the resume and you waited and you waited patiently and finally, you got that phone call, and You're sitting across the table and the hiring manager smiles Tell me about yourself. And you panic. And you You don't know what to And halfway through the &quot;Ugh! I blew it! Why You never get a second chance Usually that hiring manager in the first three minutes Do you make a good impression? So today I'm going to share with you from a CEO perspective, from from an employer perspective, what is the best response to the question &quot;tell me about yourself.&quot; You see, we have interviewed of potential applicants and I cannot tell you how kind of struggle with this question but however, there are very impressed with the response. This is not theory. We have taken some of the best replies, some of the best responses I'm going to teach it to you, you're going to walk away exactly what do you need I'm also going to give you a so next time when you you know exactly what to say. And now let me give you Key number one. When the hiring manager &quot;tell me about yourself&quot; they are not actually asking They're not asking about your and your dog's name, and It is not about that. So when people hear that &quot;Oh, let me tell you my life story!&quot; and twenty minutes into it, you have not talked So, what they're actually asking is what are you bringing to the table. So from now on, when &quot;tell me about yourself&quot; I want you to make the mental switch. That equals what value could What problems can you That's what they are asking. And you shouldn't go on and on and on about all your background and all of that. No. Don't do that. Key number two. Be yourself, but be your best self. See, one of the mistakes they believe in the interview, &quot;well, I just want to be myself&quot;. Yes, you want to be yourself, but you want to be your best self. You want to be authentic, But it doesn't mean that This is the first time you from a hiring manager, it's like a date. Right? You're just getting to know each other. This is like a coffee date. So make sure that you Lead with your strong foot forward. So when they are asking you the question, everything you share, any you always want to tie it W-I-I-F-M. What's in it for them? So let me give you an example. Let's say someone is for a social media manager position. And the hiring manager is asking you, &quot;well, so tell me about yourself.&quot; A typical response, someone might say, &quot;well, you know, I um, I-I-I and, um, I've used social my whole life actually. So I'm very familiar with it. And just about three years well, maybe I could actually So I started playing take on a couple clients here and there and I've worked with a couple people, uh, and then, now, you know, I'm planning to get married you know, I should get a stable job. So here I am, and, I'm that offers good growth potential, good growth opportunity. And this place is not It's good, it's only a ten minute drive.&quot; You see the problem? Like this, all me me me It's all about that person, what they need and all of that stuff. Bad idea. Now, how do you feel if when you ask that question, comment below, if that's the answer that you get. So, instead of rambling on about that, about my background and all If you turn it into a benefit, what's in it for the hiring manager. What could you say? I'm going to give you a simple formula. Write this down. Three S. Three S. First, success. Now here's a script that you could use. &quot;I have been blank&quot;. Or, &quot;my background is blank&quot;. So, let me demonstrate. Let's say it's the same position, social media manager, First, success. I have been. I have been doing social and I specialize in helping companies and entrepreneurs growing And in the last three dozens of clients in over And on average I've been to really increase their engagement and grow their fan page by in less than six months. And that's what I am passionate about. In fact I have listed that I've worked with You see how that works? You're talking about your It's more to demonstrate What are you good at? That's that number one, success. And then, step number two is strength. And here's the script. &quot;My strength is&quot; or &quot;my real strength is&quot; fill in the blank. My real strength is my what your audience wants. I pride myself on my reputation to creating engaging that I know your audience That's the second step. My strength is blank. Third, situation. Meaning, how does that apply to the position that you're applying. How do you apply your into the new company, the new opportunity. Situation, &quot;what I am looking for is&quot;. &quot;What I am looking for What I'm looking for is a company that I could produce a positive Where I could join a strong team. Is this what ABC company is looking for? You see? At the end you ask a question. Whoever asks a question So you want to ask a question. And now the hiring manager will be like &quot;okay, yeah, I guess that's or &quot;no that's not what we're looking for&quot;. And you got from there. Just because you are in an interview it doesn't mean that The next question you might have is well, Dan, does that mean that I have to memorize a script of some sort? And the answer is absolutely yes. You don't want to go in unprepared. In fact, you want to rehearse it many many times. So when you are in front of you are ready to go. You need to memorize it and repeat it many many times so it comes across very very natural. The last thing you want and you don't know what to say. You do not want to do that. If you find this video If you want to equip yourself with practical business knowledge, if you want to learn how to so you can finally get the and attain your goals, make sure you hit the and subscribe to my channel. Every single day we upload a new video teaches you exactly how to do that. Or, on the other hand, your income with or without a job, make sure you click the link below in the description so you can check out my free master class on communication and the art of closing.