Welcome back to part two of my Minecraft my beautiful converted jungle temple home, a Today I want to focus on continuing to renovate to get started on my farms, particularly I have the name tags but I need that I don't have. Unfortunately for me, I monsters, my favorite things in the world. I the time comes that I do need to go mining, I know But before I get into that, I need my last video. Turns out I wasn't robbed portal. It needs to be an iron pick, not so it won't be an issue. Think I'm going to Ooh, the bamboo looks nice. I've never built where will that be? I need to get some wheat a lead. Where's my spare? I actually seem I've lost my other lead. So I'm If this is birch, this might have animals. Quite a few sheep. This way, this Okay. Got them. Now make baby, shouldn't I? I'm just so conscious of how out of iron. That means I have to go I tell you what I can do now that I've I hate my current bed color. It draws too much brown bed, like that, much better. Now I'm going axe just broke. That means I've only got one which I need to. Once I run out of I'm also going to plant some bamboo along other animals now. Whoa! There are so many cows But I have not seen any pigs and chickens. I've find. I'm hoping it lays an egg eventually. And Couldn't find a pig nearby, so I've had Cute. And you've laid another egg. Will this animals. I'm going to make a quick little I just realized I'm going to need a bucket to make soil. And I only have one iron and get left. I get ready to go mining. All right. I've got almost I have an iron pick, which doesn't have much left mines. I can do it. I guess we're just going to go 29. Where did that come from? I already heard a damn spider. I but I really hate monsters, I hate them. going to try the other one. Okay, let's of here when I'm done? Now I've got my I'm going down and there's a zombie so long as I don't look at the enderman, I just I didn't look at you. I didn't look at you. I'm You can't touch me if I'm in the water. You walked into my line of sight. Shouldn't he go for me to be out of the fountain. I'm This is awful. Okay. I don't know come in the water, please. Oh. Oh, that was a bit. Look how many spiders down there. Okay? six iron now. I can see a good patch over there. Oh. okay. I think this patch is light enough now. 14 oh, this is a great chunk. Is that a geode? I haven't found a geode before because. Mainly because I just don't the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. Oh. Maybe not with amethyst. I can make beautiful though. How many more pieces do When did that happen? But I should get more, 41. I don't want to get greedy and then Oh my God. Wednesday better appreciate everything cooking now. Okay, now I've got 45 iron. anvil. I know how to spell Wednesday. That stress for that. Where is it? Let me I hope he appreciates what I went through and I've got a bucket. I can do my vegetable Have you got a boyfriend Cute now the chickens are not alone anymore. Oh, there are three. Lovely. Now while I wait for house situation. I really want to do this balcony A slab coffee table and then. It's hard to make a chair look good in Minecraft. it. Cute. And then a double one. It looks like, Now I need to put things on the side tables. Oh, Gorgeous. It needs stability. Let's have a look at it from back here Wednesday. Still really good. I need to start working Oh, that already looks so much better just breaking up the cobblestone. I Breaking news. I just updated my game, and and dog armor in the game. Renovating but I think we need to put that on hold because game for me. So we are going dog an armadillo a telescope with the amethyst I found earlier. hopefully there will be some that's easy to Motherfucker. Amethyst. Oh cool. Spyglass. This is I explained, but armadillo drops armadillo And apparently the dog armor is super, super a creeper and not die. So far, the search that's because I've, loaded too much because I see savannha biome up there, and Let's go up here. Oh, a village, oh, what are they? Hello. That fur is really Maybe. I have so many bones and I want attached to them because their sole being my mining protection. You. Oh, there's with just one bone that it's hard. I'm not going Oh. What's the best bit of your Minecraft base? guys. They mean a lot to me. They call them my happiness pride and joy Lannan it's so not funny. Lannan. Oh Lannan. Why would you do that? I have to You're kidding. You're kidding. You're kidding. I'm lost for words right now. Do not. Oh my God, if one of these. I need to dogs do not touch the sheep. Oh my God, a whole. right now. I've just found a a real pink sheep. I can't, I can't believe this. The amount again. There was that 24 hour video I more searching than that, and now when love you. Come with me. Oh my God. Wait This. The reunion. The reunion. I of pink wrong in my skin. I had a whole plan ruined it in the best way possible. move llama? I don't care about you I have to kill all my other sheep now you'll breed until you get two my princess! Oh my goodness! We're This is your home. What if you just stay there? Do tell. I'm also not going to risk the sheep this think of a better name than Pinky right now, but Lannan? Latin. Look, look, look at what I just did you? You did not find a pink sheep. that's so fucking awesome. All right, give me Let's go. It's so beautiful. I'm going One very lucky, honored sheep will get to breed too many. One. You. In my first world, it yourself. I think took like ten times. white sheep white sheep. And eventually I got a Okie doke. And that's how you by the way. I think you don't do I just kill you. Or do you also get some going to keep you in the basement. I need more They're both going to stay down here in up being very inbred. I can't believe because that took me like ten times. lovely interruption that was. Where are these Oh. Ooh. More hyenas. I guess I may as well tame I see you. Wow, you are adorable. Oh, when I it shat itself. Oh, you are adorable. Oh, this that I'm being way more rough with this than I was Come inside. Come in. Cute, Pinky. This is the the armadillo downstairs with, my other sheep. and then I can make one armour, one dog also harvest them. I haven't made a Brush. And then where are you? You know three. And the brush breaks very quickly. should go get another armadillo so I can Come on. This will double my scute supply. Just in here. Maybe I'll just. Keep them wow they break so quickly? Three. Four Oh my what color dyes do I have? Let's do Two red the red looks good. The yellow can go to you. I think red's the best. Dogs do something. Okay. that is what I wanted. And I'm going to go want a couple more of them just to feel safe I can't believe it. Oh, now you arrive. Kill, Kill. now I'm not letting you get away next time. Well, Whatever. It's fine. You