One of the most intense feelings that I've struggled and feeling like this is all on me. There's nobody else that can help me with this. Like I have to figure it out. Do you see all your Wayfair stuff is shipping? Thank you. Appreciate it. Ultimately, at the end of the day, so many people's Getaways. At times. It's been a challenging thing to sit with, but it's It's given me fire. Like, keep going because you have to. My name is Jamie Stark Inlow. I'm 32 years old and I own a property management and We are on track to bring in $3 million for this year. Basically we are a one stop shop for someone with a That's like, I would like to purchase real estate for in the trenches really at all because it's a whole Prior to starting Be Still Getaways, I worked in I was a student program director and I really enjoyed After getting pregnant and having my son 9 to 5 lives anymore. I was dropping my son off really early is just not what I pictured for my life. So my husband and I, we ended up selling our home, We purchased a mini farm in Scottsville, Virginia. Our neighbors had a sheep farm and they had a why, but I had gone through the home above their barn. It was finished very beautifully and I was like, This So from there I wrote a business plan to my neighbor. I asked him to give me $2,000 to furnish the barn. We drove all over the state of Virginia doing Facebook We furnished the barn, I listed it, and then I manage creating a website. And when I started the barn, I was like, This is it. I want to do property management for short term Sales grew so much in the past few years. We certainly have different levels of luxury now that, upscale properties into our inventory, which was So property management obviously comes with a lot of Definitely the things that we spend the most money on There are many times that I ran a payroll for staff had to be. And I knew that from the beginning. I was like, I want to instill in my team a company well and where they don't want to leave. Supplies are also up there. I would probably put this as our second most costly This would include all of the things that you need in laundry detergent, makeup remover, cloths, toothpaste, short term rental. Last year about this time there was a warehouse in, and so we signed a lease and that absolutely ship all supplies. So 120 doors worth of supplies, not to mention all of We have about 4000ft2. And right now it is completely full of furniture for all of our supplies for all of our units where our needs for a unit and take it to whatever property is I worked for almost three years working my higher Still Getaways, so I started matching my salary. I was like, okay, if I'm comfortable for a year where Getaways, then I feel like I can quit my job. My husband also recently quit his job. He was an educator and he is actually our full time So he literally 50 hours a week mows grass, which he He listens to podcasts and this line of work has been didn't have before. There are still days where I'm Because it's scary. It's a scary leap. But I'm so glad that I did it. And it was such a relief to be able to just devote to scale. Afton is a pretty tiny mountain town known for distilleries. I mean, I picture when this home was And so with Afton Mountain Inn, we've created a very which I think is really unique. We renovated all suites. We renovated seven bathrooms and added an additional And we were able to open within three months of doing I think our contractor wanted to kill us when we throughout the entire inn, which is I think that's the So this is our snack bar slash coffee room. We call this the cafe. The property owner of Afton Mountain Inn actually of our guests? Have these little Ben and Jerry's tiny And I was like, That is a beautiful suggestion. If you are willing to pay for that, let's absolutely Be Still Getaways obviously experienced an immense Even through the pandemic and just over the past We grew we went from two to 10 to 20 to 40 to 60. And that happened so fast when we expanded into motels, that was when our team really was tested. Now, 2023 has had so many intense challenges. Our original team structure, it's not working. Like we kind of need to tear it all down and start That is certainly the hardest part of scaling, is how team from being burnt out? How do you hire appropriately and make sure everyone's scale? So that has been, I think, the thing I'm the It definitely is my lowest point in business and I don't know how we're going to do this. And just feeling my staff, having so much weight on And now sitting here in July to see us coming out on I think my best advice for anyone wanting to get into a dive in and a commitment and being like, This is Obviously, one of my number one goals is bringing on a And so that's exciting. That's definitely one end My dream, like, you know, pie in the Sky vision would Term Rentals, not just a book about, you know, helping enjoy the education side of hosting, but also just industry, there's so many fun things and like day that you could totally do a reality TV show or a